Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Phoenix, City of and Phoenix Law Enforcement Association (2002) (MOA)
K#: 811832
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.comell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
t
y ^7^4
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
2002-2004
CITY OF PHOENIX
AND PHOENIX LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSOCIATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS	article 8
i	...........................................
article 1	Article qa
PREAMBLE...................................JOURT TIME OVERTIME........................
article 2	Article sb
GENDER ....................................jOURT TIME STAND-BY........................
article 3	Article w
RIGHTS OF CITY AND POLICE DEPARTMENT......... STAND-BY PAY............................
ARTICLE 4	ARTICLE 11	„
RIGHTS OF UNIT MEMBERS.....■...............1 jURY DUTY................................
ARTICLE 5	ARTICLE 12	'
RIGHTS OF THE ASSOCIATION..................2CALL-OUT PAY..............................
ARTICLE 6	ARTICLE 13
HOURS .....................................3MIGHT SHIFT AND WEEKEND
ARTICLE 7	SHIR	DIFFERENTIALS......................
WAGES .....................................  ARTICLE	14
ARTICLE 7A	bUT-OF-RANK PAY............................
LONGEVITY-PERFORMANCE PAY..................42ARTICLE	15
ARTICLE 7B	OFF-DUTY EMPLOYMENT...................0
CAREER ENHANCEMENT PAY.............................45ARTICLE 16
ARTICLE 7C	UNIFORM, CLOTHING AND
TRAINING PAY.............................  46EQUIPMENT	ALLOWANCES....................
ARTICLE 7D	ARTICLE 17
COMPENSATION FOR INTERPRETING AND	REIMBURSEMENT FOR
TRANSLATION BY SWORN POLICE OFFICERS.......47 EDUCATIONAL EXPENSES....................
-2-	-3-
ARTICLE 18	\RTICLE 25
OUT-OF-STATE VACATION RECALL.............GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.....................
article 19	Article 26
HOLIDAY BENEFITS ........................710 STRIKE-NO LOCKOUT ..................
ARTICLE 20	ARTICLE 27
HEALTH INSURANCE.........................7110 TO CONSTRUCTION OF PROVISIONS OF
ARTICLE 20A	MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING............100
RETIREE HEALTH INSURANCE.................ARTICLE 28
ARTICLE 20B	COPIES OF MEMORANDUM....................
........................OAhilULC 43
ARTICLE 20C	CHANGES IN DEPARTMENT GENERAL ORDERS
DEFERRED COMPENSATION....................PURSUANT TO THIS MEMORANDUM..............102
ARTICLE 21	ARTICLE	30
LEAVE OF ABSENCE.........................8TERM AND EFFECT OF MEMORANDUM...........103
ARTICLE 21A	ARTICLE	31
SICK LEAVE CONVERSION AT RETIREMENT......8SAVING CLAUSE...........................104
ARTICLE 21B	ARTICLE	32
SICK LEAVE PAYOUT........................StABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE..............105
ARTICLE 22	ARTICLE	33
LIFE INSURANCE...........................8IVACATI0N LEAVE.........................107
ARTICLE 23	ARTICLE	34
LONG-TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE...........8‘SENIORITY..............................110
ARTICLE 24	ATTACHMENT
PHYSICAL FITNESS.........................89N WITNESS WHEREOF......................110
-4-
-5-
ATTACHMENT “A”
POLICE OFFICERS UNIT....................
ATTACHMENT “B”
WAGES - EFFECTIVE AUGUST 16,2002........
ATTACHMENT “C"
WAGES - EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2003 ..........
ATTACHMENT “O’
HEALTH INSURANCE RATES EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1, ..................115
ATTACHMENT “E"
DENTAL INSURANCE RATES EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1, 2002..............116
ATTACHMENT “F” DRUG TESTING .........................116
RETIREE HEALTH CONTRIBUTION EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1, 2002..............117
GARRITY STATEMENT.....................118
FALLEN OFFICERS MEMORIAL..............119
PLEA ADDRESSES......................  120
-6-
This Memorandum of Understanding is made and entered into between the City of Phoenix, Arizona, hereinafter referred to as “City,” and the Phoenix Law Enforcement Association, hereinafter referred to as “Association," under the authority of City of Phoenix Ordinance No. G-33O3.
*7-
ARTICLE 1 PREAMBLE
WHEREAS the parties, through their designated representatives; met and conferred in good faith pursuant to Ordinance G-3303 in order to reach agreement concerning wages, hours, and working conditions of employees in the Police Officers Unit, and
WHEREAS the parties hereby acknowledge that the provisions of this Memorandum are not intended to abrogate the authority and responsibility of City government provided for under the Statutes of the State of Arizona or the Charter or Ordinances of the City of Phoenix except as expressly and lawfully limited herein,
NOW THEREFORE, it is agreed that this Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter “Memorandum”) shall be submitted to the City Council of the City of Phoenix for its consideration.
-8-
ARTICLE 2 GENDER
Wherever any words used herein in the masculine, feminine or neuter, they shall be construed as though they were also used in another gender in all cases where they would so apply.
ARTICLES
RIGHTS OF CITY AND POLICE DEPARTMENT
1.	The Association recognizes that the City and the Chief of Police retain, whether exercised or not, solely and exclusively, all express and inherent rights and authority pursuant to law with respect to determining the level of and the manner in which the City’s law enforcement activities are conducted, managed, and administered, and the Association recognizes the exclusive right of the Chief of Police to establish and maintain departmental rules and procedures for the administration of the Police Department during the term of this Memorandum provided that such rules and procedures do not violate any of the specific express provisions of this Memorandum.
2.	The City and Chief of Police have the exclusive right
-9-

and authority to schedule work and/or overtime work as required in the manner most advantageous to the City,
3,	It is understood by the parties that every incidental duty connected with operations enumerated in job descriptions is not always specifically described; nevertheless, it is intended that all such duties shall be performed by the employee.
4.	The Chief of Police and City Manager reserve the right to discipline or discharge employees for cause, pursuant to the Civil Service laws. The City reserves the right to lay off personnel of the Department.
5.	The City and the Chief of Police shall determine assignments and establish methods and processes by which assignments are performed.
6.	The City and Chief of Police shall have the right to transfer employees within the Police Department in a manner most advantageous to the City.
7.	Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Memorandum, the City and the Chief of Police retain unqualifiedly all rights and authority to which by law they are entitled.
8,	The City shall have the authority without prior meeting and conterring to effect reorganizations of the Police Department.
9.	The Association recognizes that the City has statutory and Charter rights and obligations in contracting for matters relating to municipal operations.
10.	The Association pledges cooperation to the increasing of departmental efficiency and effectiveness. Any and all rights concerning the management, organization, and direction of the Police Department and the police force, including those set forth in this Memorandum, shall be exclusively the right of the City and the Chief of Police unless otherwise provided by the express terms of this Memorandum as permitted by law.
11.	The inherent and express rights of the City and the Chief of Police, including those herein specifically referred to, which are not expressly modified or restricted by a specific provision of this Memorandum, are not in any way, directly or indirectly, subject to the Grievance Procedure herein.
-11-
ARTICLE 4
RIGHTS OF UNIT MEMBERS
1,	A unit member has the right to have the Association serve as his “meet and confer” representative as set forth in Ordinance G-I532.
2.	A unit member has the right to be represented by the Association in dealings with the City concerning grievances and matters pertaining to his individual employment rights and obligations.
A.	If a unit member requests, representation will be allowed when the member is the subject of an administrative investigation by Professional Standards Bureau, any Police Department supervisor, or other City employee who is conducting an investigatory interview or interrogation. The City and Association will obtain the most readily available Association representative, who must be a bargaining unit member. The unit representative will make every reasonable attempt to arrive within one hour from the time a phone is made available to the unit member. The Association representative will attend the above interview/interrogation only as an observer, but the association representative may make a request for a caucus to bring to the investigator’s
-12-
attention issues which may be violations of the MOU or questions outside the scope of the NOI.
B.	The interview/interrogation session shall be for a reasonable period of time, taking into consideration the gravity and complexity of the misconduct being investigated.
C.	A unit member under investigation will be notified in writing every three (3) months as to the current status of the investigation. This will include a brief description of the number of known witnesses still to be interviewed and other investigative processes remaining to be completed, as well as an estimated date of completion.
3.	A unit member has the right to present his own grievance, in person or by legal counsel.
A. Unit members are entitled to representation if a “Not Met” PMG is appealed and is at the Executive Level (Assistant Chief or Chief) or when management has more than one representative at the meeting to discuss the appeal of the PMG.
4.	A. A unit member covered hereunder shall, on his request and by appointment, be permitted to ex-
-13-

amine his departmental or divisional personnel file, in the presence of an appropriate supervisory official
of the Department. The unit member may be accom panied by another person of his choosing.
B.	No unit member shall have any adverse comments entered into his departmental or divisional personnel file without the member being informed by a supervisor. If the unit member requests, he may receive a copy of the adverse comment.
C.	A unit member may, at his discretion, attach rebuttal statements to any material contained in his departmental or divisional personnel file which may be adverse in nature.
D.	Material purged from a unit member’s files in accordance with the below procedures or allegations about a unit member which are unfounded, exonerated or unresolved will not be used in future performance ratings or disciplinary actions, DRB’s, UFB, CSB, IRP, Grievance, or any other review board.
E.	Performance evaluations will be purged from a unit member’s Personnel Department file
-14-
after no longer than ten (10) years.
F.	A unit member may have material of an adverse nature which is over three (3) years old removed from all Division and department files when there have been no incidents or problems of a similar nature within the three (3) year period immediately preceding the request. Performance Evaluations will be purged after three (3) years (except Separation Notices and Industrial Injury or Illness information). At the annual employee evaluation, the unit member and his supervisor will review and purge the unit member’s division file. A unit member may make an appointment with fiscal to purge their department file. In the event that documentation that is eligible for purging is not purged, it will not be considered in future disciplinary matters. Separation Notices over five (5) years old will not be considered in any process.
G.	A Supervisory Counseling is a verbal warning and if used in any disciplinary or personnel action or any performance rating, the counseling must first be documented in the supervisor’s notes and shall be initialed or signed by the unit member within two (2) weeks of being advised that the discipline has
-15-
"1
I
been issued. The effective date of the discipline for all grievance and appeal purposes will start from the date that the unit member signs the supervisor’s notes.
H.	Once a unit member has been disciplined, no further disciplinary action maybe imposed for the same specific allegation during the same incident of misconduct. A unit member may be subjected to additional discipline if further investigation reveals additional allegations arising from the same incident.
I.	At his request, a unit member may have documents related to disciplinary actions which are over ten (10) years old removed from his personnel file when there have been no incidents or problems of a similar nature within the ten year period immediately preceding the request. The term “disciplinary actions” is defined as follows:
(1)	Any discipline given a unit member that resulted in a suspension of eighty (80) hours or less and,
(2)	For an infraction which did not result in a criminal charge or actions which did not include violent or assaultive behavior directed at another person or,
-16-
(3)	Any infraction that is no longer considered to be a disciplinary matter under current contemporary department standards in effect at the time of the unit member’s file purge request.
5.	A unit member and his Association Representative shall have the right to appear before the departmental Disciplinary Review Board when disciplinary matters are brought before the Board involving the unit member.
A.	The purpose of such appearance is to give the unit member an opportunity to respond to the assertions made against him.
B.	The Department shall notify the unit member ten (10) calendar days prior to such opportunity to respond to the Board. The notification shall contain the date, time, violation(s) and basis of each violation that has been partially or wholly sustained. In addition, the unit member, if he chooses, may meet with his immediate supervisor along with his second level supervisor or the unit member's Bureau/Precinct Commander for the purpose of discussing the basis of each violation to be reviewed by the DRB. If the immediate supervisor conducted the investigation, the unit member, if he chooses,
-17-
may meet with the next supervisor in his chain of command. Such request shall be made in writing to the unit member’s immediate supervisor. Also, the unit member, if he chooses, may be accompanied by an Association representative at either meeting.
(1)	At the pre-DRB meeting, the unit member shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to review the written investigation. Realizing that in some cases there may be information that would be detrimental to the department’s ability to conduct misconduct investigations, that information may be deleted. However, all other information will be available for review.
C.	The unit member under investigation may request a copy of the DRB information at no cost. The DRB information will be made available to the unit member or his representative at the same time the unit member is served with the DRB notice. Any written or electronic material to be presented by the employee or his representative to the DRB shall also be given to the department in a reasonable time. The information will be supplied on a read-only computer disc if possible; if not, it will be supplied in written form. In addition, the department will supply any audio/video
-18-

5
tapes and computer graphics which have been produced.
D.	The unit member may, at his discretion, appear before the Board with an Association representative of his choosing and may state his reasons why the proposed action is unjustified. The unit member and his representative may passively observe all presentations made to the board and all responses made to questions by board members. The unit member and non-board members will be excluded from the room during board deliberations.
E.	The unit member may submit relevant written matter in support of his position.
F.	If the unit member requests, representation will be allowed during Use Of Force Board (UFB) hearings. An Association representative will be allowed to observe all presentations made to the Board and all responses to questions by Board members.
At least ten (10) days prior to the convening of the UFB, the unit member will be provided at no cost with a copy of all documentation concerning his involvement in the matter under investigation that is made
-19-
available to the UFB Board members.
6. A unit member under investigation by Professional : Standards Bureau or a Police Department supervisor for ; a disciplinary matter that may lead to a written reprimand, suspension, demotion, or discharge, and who is interviewed or interrogated, or requested to produce any documentation, shall be given a written Notice Of Investigation (Form 80-58DB) informing him of the specific nature of the investigation, his status in the investigation, and all known allegations of misconduct involved in the interview of the unit member. In addition, the unit member and/or the Police Department supervise ^Professional Standard Bureau representative may mechanically record such interview/interrogation. Should any mechanical recordings take place, the department reserves the right to transcribe any such interview/interrogation for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of the interview/interrogation and, if requested, the unit member shall sign the transcription if it is accurate.
r
being covered by the segmented Notice Of Investigation.
A.	A copy of the signed and dated Notice Of Investigation will be given to the unit member prior to the beginning of the interview. The unit member shall have the right to retain the NOI for his use throughout the entire course of the interview.
B.	In the event a unit member does not record his interview/interrogation, he may request a copy of the investigator’s tape(s) if the investigator records the in-terview/interrogations. In order to receive this copy, the member must provide the investigator with a blank standard cassette tape(s). The unit member shall not receive additional pay for picking up or dropping off this tape.
C.	If any unit member is told not to speak to anyone regarding an investigation, this admonition does not apply to speaking with an attorney functioning within the attorney-client relationship. In addition, if an accused unit member is told not to speak to anyone regarding an inves-
In the event that the investigator intends to segment the interview or the interrogation, the NOI will inform the member of the specific nature and all known allegations pertaining to the portion or portions of the investigation
• trgation, this admonition does not apply to speaking with : an Association representative, who may discuss the mat-■ ter only with the grievance chairman or Association presi-: dent. Once the investigation is completed, any unit mem-
-20-
-21-
ber may speak with an Association representative regarding the incident. When the investigation is completed, the accused unit member will be notified in writing of the findings. A unit member under internal or administrative investigation may be reassigned (may include reassignment to his home), until the completion of the investigation.
D.	If during the course of the above mentioned investigation, information is learned concerning additional misconduct on the part of the unit member being interviewed, an IMOI will be issued to the unit member prior to the unit member being questioned about the additional misconduct information.
7.	It is understood by the parties that the benefits granted by this Article, shall not be interpreted or applied as requiring the employer to count as time worked, any hours or fractions of hours spent outside the unit member’s work shift in pursuit of benefits provided by this Article. The employer shall count as time worked any hours or fractions of hours spent within the unit member’s regular work shift in pursuit of benefits provided by this Article.
A. A unit member attending any IBP, DRB, UFB,
-22-
DAC, Grievance meeting, or any other review board while off duty shall be allowed to adjust their work schedule by an equal amount of time spent in the meeting. The adjustment will require the approval of the unit members supervisor, with operational considerations, approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
8.	After a separation notice has been signed by the appropriate authorities, and if the unit member is given the opportunity to resign, the unit member will have three (3) hours to consult with an Association representative.
9.	A unit member who receives a written reprimand will be provided a copy of the official documentation, if any, supporting the written reprimand at the time the unit member receives the reprimand.
10.	If the Department Accident Analysis Committee (AAC) sends a case to the DRB for review, the unit member will receive a copy ot the facts supporting the AAC position upon request. Prior to the AAC review, unless the unit member declines, an IRP will be completed with the unit member’s commander.
11.	A unit member identified only as a witness will be
-23-
given the opportunity to consult with the PLEA President or Representation Chairman to discuss their rights and obligations prior to the interview or interrogation.
12.	A unit member seeking an “at request” transfer will only have discipline of a written reprimand ol a relevant nature, suspension, or demotion taken into consideration in the determination of the transfer. Fortrans-fers only, discipline greater than three (3) years from the date of the NOI will not be considered.
13.	If a polygraph examination is required of a unit member, a Association representative may monitor the preliminary and post examination interview and examination from the monitoring room.
ARTICLE 5 RIGHTS OF THE ASSOCIATION
1.	The Association, as the authorized representative, has the exclusive right to serve as the meet and confer representative of all employees in the Police Officers Unit as described in Attachment “A.”
2.	Certain specified PLEA representatives of the Association have the right to paid release time under the Grievance Procedure herein as follows;
A.	The Association may designate up to thirty-five (35) representatives and shall notify the Chief of Police of such designations. There shall be no obligation on the City to change or adjust normal departmental scheduling or assignments of personnel as a result of such designations.
B.	One PLEA representative may, when the Association is designated in writing by the unit member as his representative, attend mutually scheduled grievance meetings and hearings with department representatives and hearings scheduled and conducted by the Civil Service Board without loss of pay or benefits. In no event shall this paid release time be used for any other purposes, such as gathering information, interviewing the grievant/appellant or witnesses, or preparing a presentation. The PLEA representative is required to obtain the permission o1 his non-unit supervisor to absent himself ' from his duties to attend scheduled grievance meetings. A PLEA representative wishing to enter a work area for the purpose of investigating a formal grievance must
-25-
-24-
first gain the permission of the work area supervisor. This permission will not be unreasonably withheld, giving proper consideration to essential work of the department and the occupational safety of the PLEA representative. One additional PLEA representative may be allowed to attend such meetings for training purposes. Upon written request from the Association, the city will provide specific information pertinent to a written grievance, arbitration case, or Civil Service appeal. The city will also provide pertinent collective bargaining information. This material will be supplied to the Association at no cost.
C.	When new work units, precinct(s)/bureau(s) are created, the Association may designate up to one (1) additional representative per bureau and up to three (3) additional representatives per precinct. The increased number will be consistent with current practice and will be based solely on the addition of new work unit(s). Any deviation from the above will be discussed at a Labor-Management meeting.
3.	During the term of this Memorandum, the City shall furnish to the Association bimonthly at actual no cost a listing of all unit members, Indicating name,
; mailing address, phone number and assignment The ; parties agree that the Association will use this list ; solely for the purposes of communicating with unit •j members and will not share this information with • other individuals or organizations.
4,	The City shall deduct monthly from the pay war-• rants of Association members the regular periodic As-■ sociation membership dues and/or special assessments ; in accordance with Ordinance G-I532 and pursuant to < the City’s existing dues deduction authorization form duly ■; completed and signed by the Association member, and i transmit such deductions to the Association on a monthly basis; except, however, that such deduction shall be i made only when an Association member’s earnings for ' a pay period are sufficient after other legally required deductions are made. The City shall, at the request of •the Association, make changes in the amount of the ; deduction hereunder during the term of this Memo-.j random at cost for implementing such change. The j City shall not make dues deductions for unit mem-J bers on behalf of any other employee organization as i defined in Ordinance G-I532 during the term of this Memorandum. The City assumes no liability on account of any action taken pursuant to this paragraph.
-26-
-27-

------------------------------------------------F
5.	The Association is authorized to use mutually; agreed upon non-work areas in City facilities for pick-up; by or distribution to unit members of official Associa-! tion literature that is not political in nature, abusive of; any person or organization, or disruptive of the department’s operations, it being understood and agreed, however, that such activity shall not be done during the on-duty time of any unit member.
6.	The City shall continue to provide existing bul-: letin boards for the exclusive use by the Association; for communicating with its members.	*
A, Bulletin boards shall be limited to one (1) per bureau/p reci net. New or replaced bulletin boards; । shall be provided by the Association and shall not-exceed 4' x 3’ (width by height) in size, and shall beh placed in a location established by the bureau/precinct. commander that is readily accessible to unit members.:;
lice officers who are regularly assigned to hazardous duty, and will at all times perform such duties as are normally expected and required of a municipal police officer in the City of Phoenix, Arizona. It is understood that the president, chief negotiator, and grievance chairman are receiving compensation for services rendered to the employer. It is further understood that the president, chief negotiator, grievance chairman, and the employer shall make all contributions to the Public Safety Personnel Retirement System required by law so as to maintain their full eligibility under the Public Safety Personnel Retirement System.
B.	Pursuant to Civil Service rules and regulations and applicable rules and regulations of the Phoenix Police Department, the president, chief negotiator, and grievance chairman, of the Association shall be authorized, upon request, a leave of absence(s) by the Chief of Police.
7.	A. The president, chief negotiator, and grievance c. The president, chief negotiator, and grievance chairman of the Association shall be sworn police offic- j chairman, shall participate in all appropriate training re-ers and members of the Phoenix Police Department. At) quirements necessary to maintain membership in the deal I times the president, chief negotiator; and grievance)partment, including all training mandated by the Arizona chairman of the Association shall be full-time paid po-. Peace Officers Standards and Training Board (AZ POST).
-28-	-29-
D.	The president, chief negotiator, and grievance. chairman, agrees to be bound by the Departments rules, regulations, general, and operations orders, including proper notification when utilizing sick or vacation leave, •• and may be subject to disciplinary action for violations ol any such rules, regulations, general or operations orders.
E.	The City agrees to pay the lull cost of the president’s, chief negotiator, and grievance chairman, sal-; ary and fringe benefits pursuant to this provision. ;
8.	A member of the Executive Board of the Associa- * tion, or a designated PLEA representative, will, with the approval of the Chief of Police or his designee, subject to twenty-four (24) hours written notice in advance, be; authorized to engage in Association related activities during City work hours on a non-paid basis. Approval for such authorization for more than two (2) Executive Of-; ficers or Board members of the Association or desig-j nated shift representatives is subject to forty-eight (48) j hours written notice in advance. Approval for use of un-j paid time hereunder shall be subject to Department op-; erational and scheduling factors and administration control as to usage of such time, but shall not be arbitrarily withheld. There shall be no use of official paid time;
-30-	■
for Association related activities under this paragraph.
9.	A. A bank of 3668 hours of paid Association released time shall be created per MOU year for use by the Association to engage in legitimate Association business. These hours may be used as follows:
(1	) For Executive Board members to attend meetings of the Executive Board, meetings of the general membership, and for preparation for negotiations pursuant to Ordinance G-3303.
(2	) For a unit member designated by the President to be used for legitimate Association purposes.
B.	For purposes of this section, the term “hours” shall be understood to mean a ten (10) hour work shift for a unit member participating in the 4/ 10 schedule who may be eligible for this benefit.
C.	Approval for use of paid time hereunder shall be subject to Departmental operational and scheduling factors. When using such paid time, members of the Executive Board shall give at least twenty-four (24) hours written notice in advance.
-31-

D.	In recognition of the mutual benefit to both j the City and the Association, a unit member using Asso-ciation release time as defined by Articles in this MOD to < conduct Association business shall be accorded all in- < surance-related benefits. Approval of claims made for ; benefits will be determined on a case by case basis.
E.	Any hours in excess of 9A must be approved j by the Police Chief, the Labor Relations Administrator, ? and the PLEA president. The cost of hours in excess of : 9A will be charged against the following contract.
F.	The president may appoint a legislative rep-resentative for the Association if the legislative representative is registered with the Secretary of State as a lobbyist and if the legislative representative has ; agreed to work with and assist the city’s legislative' lobbyist. The legislative representative shall receive / 500 hours of release time per MOU year.
10.	For a unit member whose regular shift is other; than Shift 1, there will be flexibility in changing his nor- i mal work hours for the purposes of attending official; Labor-Management meetings called by or with the con- i currence ol City management or the Police Chief or his ■
-32-
designee other than those outlined in Article 5, Section 9.
11.	The Association will be allowed, subject to departmental operation and scheduling factors and reasonable advance notice, a total of fifteen (15) man days paid leave per MOU year to attend Association seminars, lectures and conventions.
For purposes of this section, the term “man days” shall be understood to mean a ten (10) hour work shift for a unit member participating in the 4/10 schedule who may be eligible for this benefit.
12.	The Association and the Department will jointly present a two (2) hour career survival class to newly sworn police officers. Immediately following, the Association will be allowed one (1) hour to talk to and possibly sign newly sworn police officers into the Association and to explain the rights and benefits under the MOU. This time will be allotted during the post-academy training time of said officers. The content of such information shall not be political in nature, abusive of any person or the Department or disruptive of the Department’s operation.
13.	' Prior to the termination of the current Memo-
-33-
j the Association president the AZ POST calendar and J all other job related seminar notices it receives.
; 16. In recognition of the mutual benefit provided : to the City and the Association by the full-time PLEA ; positions, the City agrees to pay the full-time PLEA 1 executive positions one hundred and sixty (160) J hours of overtime per MOU year for the hours worked : in excess of the standard forty (40) hour work week, i This pay, calculated at time and a half, will be com; pensation for overtime worked anti performed by the • Executive Board member that is done for the City.
i 17. The Association will have two (2) PLEA positions, designated in writing, on continuous paid stand-by for the mutual benefit of both the City and the Association to respond to critical incidents as •’ needed. No member will be placed on stand-by if the ■ member is not available for call-out. If call-out occurs, : overtime will be paid in accordance with Article 8.
ARTICLE 6 HOURS
; 1. The regular duty hours for a unit member shall be
’	-35-
randum and subject to departmental operational and scheduling factors, each designated PLEA representative will be allowed up to six (6) hours of paid release time to facilitate the familiarization of the terms of the successor Memorandum.
14.	It is understood by the parties that the benefits granted by this Article shall not be interpreted or applied as requiring the employer to count as time worked, any hours or fractions of hours spent outside the unit member’s work shift in pursuit of benefits provided by this Article. The employer shall count as time worked any hours or fractions of hours spent within the unit member’s regular work shift in pursuit of benefits provided by this Article.
A. Any unit representative attending any IRP, DRB, UFB, DAC, or any other review board will be allowed to adjust their work schedule by an equal amount of time spent in the meeting. The adjustment will require the approval of the supervisor with operational consideration. Approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
15.	In the interest of encouraging continuing education lor unit members, the department will mail to
-34-
five (5) consecutive shifts of eight (8) hours in a seven (7) calendar day work week. These five (5) consecutive ■ shifts will be preceded and followed by two (2) “N” days. If, by reason of transfer, a unit member’s “N" days are ’ changed, the provisions ol this section pertaining to "N”; days shall not apply. The eight (8) duty hours per shift shall be consecutive and may include any “briefing time" and shall include a meal period of thirty (30) minutes. When work demands permit, with a supervisor’s approval, a unit member may combine this thirty (30) minute meal period with one of his fifteen (15) minute rest periods described under Section 3 of this Article to achieve a forty-five (45) minute meal period. This shall also apply to a unit member working a 4/10 schedule. At times, the department: may have operational needs which necessitate ai change in current work schedules. The department shall give a unit member a minimum seven (7) day advance written notice when his “N" days or hours: will be changed. If this seven (7) day written notice is not given, and there is no operational need for not pro-, viding the notice, the “N” days or hours change will be: rescheduled to allow for a seven (7) day notice period.
2. If a ten (10) hour, four (4) day work week is imple-
-36-
mented,the regular duty hours for an affected unit member shall be four (4) consecutive shifts of ten (10) hours in a seven (7) calendar day work week. These four (4) consecutive shifts will be preceded and followed by three (3) “N” days. If, by reason of transfer, a unit member’s “N” days are changed, the provisions of this Section pertaining to “N” days shall not apply. The ten (10) duty hours per shift shall be consecutive and may include any "briefing time" and shall include a meal period of thirty (30) minutes. At times, the department may have operational needs which necessitate a change in current work schedules. The department shall give a unit member a minimum seven (7) day advance written notice when his “N" days or hours will be changed. If this seven (7) day written notice is not given, and there is no operational need for not providing the notice, the “N" days or hours change will be rescheduled to allow for a seven (7) day notice period.
3. When used in the context of this Article, “Operational Needs” will be defined as: Service demands or other required actions performed to accomplish the mission of the department. These actions may be routine (anticipated) or emergency (unanticipated). For routine operational actions, a seven-day written notice will be given to
-37-
change schedules. For emergency operational actions, location outside the squad/team area A meal period unit members will be provided with as much advance j may be taken at a private residence with suoervi notice and information as the situation will allow, I sory approval, provided such residence is within the
I unit member’s beat area,
4,	In addition to all duties as assigned by the Chief
of Police or his designees, work hours shall continue J 7. A unit member may return to his work station ten to include two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods as |(io) minutes before his scheduled end of shift if work work demands allow.	[demands permit for the purpose of completing re-
c TU kll. ..	tf..4	Iquired paperwork, notifying oncoming unit members of
5,	There shall be a minimum of fifteen (15) houMany beat conditions, and to notify his supervisor of anv oft between shifts (thirteen (13) hours fora unit menHunusual occurrences he encountered during his shift ber working a 4/10 schedule). If this is not possible, |	y
the unit member shall receive overtime compensa-1 8, A unit member assigned to the Canine Detail shall tion at his regular rate of pay for each full hour worked^ allowed four (4) hours of paid time per work week to within the described fifteen (15) hour period (thir-fcare for his police dog at his residence The Citv will teen (13) hour period for a unit member working a 4/^fetermine when and how the hours will be scheduled 10 schedule). A unit member assigned to the DEB,S	^ueouiea.
OCB, GIB, CRB, NRB or SRB may sign individual state- j 9, A unit member may waive the provisions of ments waiving the provisions of this section. Signed^ections 1 and 2 of this Article to facilitate an al-waivers shall continue in effect per MOD year jtemative work schedule upon the written agree-
. t u of both the Association and the Department
6,	A unit member will be permitted to take the|	p
meal period at a location within the squad/team area,; or if no suitable eating location is available, then withj the approval of the designated non-unit supervisor, at aj
-3S-	i-	.39.
ARTICLE?	! 6. A unit member assigned to the Air Support Unit,
WAGES	and who has achieved and maintained the qualification
level of “Chief Pilot,” shall be placed at step thirteen
1.	Effective August 19, 2002, the pay schedule outjn the pay schedule outlined in “Attachment B.” lined in “Attachment B” will be in effect,	S
I 7, Only unit members assigned to one of the four
2.	Effective (first pay period in July 2003) thfjdescribed Air Support assignments are eligible to be pay schedule outlined in “Attachment “C” will bt|olaced in levels nine ten through thirteen of the pay in effect.	schedule described in “Attachment B."
3.	Unit members assigned to the Air Suppo^ A. Unit members may only qualify for and reUnit, and who have achieved and maintained thficeive pay for one pay step at a time. Example: A unit qualification level of “Pilot in Command, Rotoinember qualified as a Unit Certified Flight Instructor Wing," shall be placed at step ten in the pay schedjpnd receiving pay at pay step twelve shall not receive ule outlined in “Attachment B,”	fhepremiumpayforanyotherpaysteptheunitmem-
ber may also qualify for
4.	Unit members assigned to the Air Support Unit, ant)
who have achieved and maintained the qualification 8. It is understood that for implementation purlevel of “Rescue Qualified Pilot,” shall be placed at stefposes, the practice of rounding of fractional cents eleven in the pay schedule outlined in “Attachment B.’|hall be done in accordance with accepted mathematical and accounting principles.
5,	Unit members assigned to the Air Support Unit, ami
who have achieved and maintained the qualification level 9. When a conflict arises between the Pay Sched-of “Unit Certified Flight Instructor,” shall be placed at stefle attached hereto as Appendices and the Pay Ordi-twelve in the pay schedule outlined in “Attachment B.jance due to mathematical, typographical, or print-
ing error, the Pay Ordinance shall be the controlling ($2,240) at twenty years (20) of service, authority.	!
:	B. On July 11, 2003 and December 12, 2003, a
10. It is the intent of the parties to permanently unit member who has completed at least seven (7) years move the effective date of any wage increase to thi) of continuous full-time service and who meets the addi-start of the first pay period in July.	j tional qualifications specified in this Article shall receive
eighty ($80) dollars for each full year of continuous fullARTICLE 7A	: time service in excess of six (6) years, up to a semi-annual
Longevity-Performance Pay	: maximum of one thousand one hundred and twenty dol-
•• lars ($1,120), annual maximum of two thousand two hun-In recognition of continuous service and overall perfor dred and forty dollars ($2,240) at twenty (20) years, mance, the City agrees to implement the following Ion;
gevity performance pay formula for unit members C. On July 12, 2002, December 13, 2002, ; July 11,2003 and December 12,2003 a unit mem-
1. Pay Benefit:	her with more than twenty (20) years of continu-
• ous full-time service shall receive one hundred and
A. On July 12, 2002 and December 13 , 2002;twenty-five dollars ($125) for each full year of con-a unit member who has completed at least seven (7| tinuous service in excess of six (6) years, up to a years of continuous full-time service and who meet]semi-annual maximum of two thousand dollars the additional qualifications specified in this articH($2,000), annual maximum of four thousand dol-shall receive eighty dollars ($80) for each full year o]lars ($4,000) at twenty-two (22) years or more, continuous full-time service in excess of six (6) years;
up to a semi-annual maximum of one thousand on; 2. Qualifications: hundred twenty dollars ($1,120), annual maximuie!
of two thousand two hundred and forty dollar) A. A unit member must have completed at least
-42-
-43-

r.	s
'I ■ .	3
i . one (1) year of continuous full-time service at the 3 E, A unit member must be on full-time active sta-' top step in his classification. Employees in step 8 as 1 tus. A unit member on industrial leave shall qualify i	1	of July 8, 2002 will receive longevity pay when they:	for this payment for only the first year of the indus:	reach one year at step 8 and maintain their longevity;	trial leave. However, the entire period of industrial
: <	i	eligibility when they move to step 9. Employees in	:	leave shall qualify as continuous service when the
■	I	step 7 or below as of July 8, 2002 will be required to	■	unit member returns to active employment,
complete one year at step 9 to be longevity eligible.
3. Terms of Payment:
B. Effective July 1,1999, a unit member must
have completed seven (7) years of continuous full-time A. Payments will be made within thirty (30) days service. A unit member who has continuous, full time of the qualifying date.	j
; City service in another classification(s) may apply that
i time to the seven (7) year requirement.	B. A unit member who separates from City gov-
j	ernment after the qualifying date but prior to the payment
. I ' C. A unit member must have achieved the overall day shall receive the payment in their termination pay.
h performance rating of “meets standards" or better on
i : ■ his latest scheduled performance evaluation on file in C. Effective July 9,2001, a unit member who re-
:	the Personnel Department.	:tires from city government shall receive his longevity
j pay at a pro-rated calculation (calculated to the nearest
i . ’ d. A unit member who receives a less thanjfull month), which will be included in his final check.
,	: .	“meets standards” rating may appeal that rating by;
'.	।	memo through his chain of command to the Police	ARTICLE 7B
' i ! Chief. A unit member’s eligibility shall be reinstated	CAREER ENHANCEMENT PAY
; once the unit member receives a scheduled or un<
' fi. scheduled performance rating that meets standards. 1. CEP pay to a qualified unit member shall be
-44-	-45-
—
I
determined by the below listed percentages cal-Apartment-approved officer field training, will re-culated from a step eight unit member’s base Aive an additional five percent (5%) of their regular monthly pay:	Cate of pay for every day they are assigned to an offi-
cially authorized field training position.
A.	Effective June 1, 2002: CEP Level 1 pay|
calculated at 3% of step eight shall be $1594.32j 2. Any unit member assigned to train an O.l.T. in per year ($61.32 per pay period).	|raffic/DUI enforcement will receive 5% training pay
Jfor everyday the unit member actually trains.
B.	Effective December 10, 2001: CEP Levels
2 pay calculated at 6% of step eight shall be	ARTICLE 7D
$3188.64 per year ($122.64 Per pay period). § COMPENSATION FOR INTERPRETING AND
1 TRANSLATION BY SWORN POLICE OFFICERS
C.	Effective July 23, 2001: CEP Level 3 pay:
calculated at 9% of step eight shall be $4782.96^ 1, Purpose
per year ($183.96 Per pay period).
« A. This regulation is written to provide guide-
D.	Effective July 23, 2001: CEP Level 4 payees for adjusting the compensation of sworn police calculated at 12% of step eight shall be $6377.28|)ffjeers who are authorized and required by a sworn Per year ($245.28 per pay period).	police supervisor to utilize a language other than En-
glish, including sign language, to conduct an official
ARTICLE 7C	police Department function or activity:
TRAINING PAY
B. This compensation shall be for police-re-
1. Field Training Officers (FTOs) and other unlisted functions or activities in which the unit memmembers whom the department selects to conductor is called upon to interpret in addition to their
-46-	;(	-47-
normal assigned duties.
2. Payment Authorization
3. Performance Activities Approved for Special Compensation
4. Compensation
A. A unit member who meets linguistic skills
■■ qualifications, as determined by a management review
fi rnmnpnsation provided for by this regulation panel, or in the case of sign language determined by city .	1, ...hon annrnvpd bv a sworn police sis personnel, shall be paid a premium of $10.00 per hour
shall be given on y	PPJ	J translation. I calculated to the nearest 1/4 hour; in addition to his base
pervisor poor to the actual interpret	hour|y fQr each he	jn
authorized interpretation, translation, or signing activities.
5.	Supervisory Authorization
A. Verbal interpretation, in excess of seven
consecutive minutes per occurrence, while conductiij A. Authorization must be provided by a sworn any assigned formal police function or activity. ^police supervisor in each case. Written notification |ivhich includes a listing of the specific time periods B. Written translation, in excess of seven (7) co|or which the premium payment is sought along with secutive minutes per occurrence, while conducting a|ignatures of the unit member and the appropriate assigned formal police function or activity. Supervisor should be forwarded to the Police pepartment’s Fiscal Bureau before the end of the pay
C. Signing interpretation and translation,(period in which the additional duty occurred, excess of seven (7) consecutive minutes per o|
currence, while conducting any assigned fornf	ARTICLES
police function or activity.	ji	OVERTIME
1. Overtime is defined as time assigned and worked
-48-
-49-
r--------------------——
which will include a check box indicating “payment” or “compensatory time,” The unit member shall check either box to reflect his wishes. If a unit member submits overtime requests that are in excess of one hundred seventy (170) hours, he will be paid the difference.
5. A unit member may be paid for accumulated compensatory time by submitting a memorandum to the Re-
beyond the regularly scheduled forty (40) hour work?) week or eight (8) hour work shift, or ten (10) hour work shift if a four (4) day work week is implemented. Duly authorized paid leave shall be considered as time worked for purposes of the regularly scheduled work week. This provision shall not apply to unpaid leave.
2,	Overtime shall be worked and shall be allowed if
assigned by the Chief of Police or his designees. I cal Bureau requesting payment for any portion of the compensatory time. This may be done at any time
3.	Overtime work will be compensated in either cash!} upon the unit member’s request, land such payment or compensation time at one and one-half (1-1/2) times!} will be made in the pay period following receipt of the regular rate of pay after the first seven (7) minutesHhe memorandum by the Fiscal Bureau.
assigned and worked beyond the end of the unit member’s
regularly scheduled shift, calculated tothe nearest 1/4 hour| 6. At the direction of the immediate non-unit superil visor in each case, a unit member shall be entitled to
4.	A unit member may, subject to approval of his non-} overtime in accordance with Article 8 hereof, while he is unit supervisor based on considerations of department being evaluated by the authorized and designated City tai scheduling and operations factors, request to use}physician for return to work at times he is not scheduled overtime as compensatory time subject to the limitation^ be on duty nor is on paid leave or disability benefit of one hundred seventy (170) hours on the accumula-jstatus, based on actual check-in and check-out time ration of compensatory time. Use of compensatory timejcorded by Health Center staff. This time shall not qualify shall be subject to advance approval of the non-unit su-jfor the guaranteed minimum overtime provision contained pervisor. For purposes of accumulating compensatoryjin Article 12, but shall be compensated at a minimum of time, the department will provide overtime request slips|one (1) hour at time and one-half (1 -1/2). No unit member -50-	|	-51-
r —
shall be compensated for other than the supervisor dR out, or a supervisor approves of the making or receiving reeled evaluation(s) by the City physician for return to work,g of the call, the unit member will be paid a minimum of (fifteen (15) minutes at time and one-half his regular rate 7, After four (4) consecutive hours of overtime, as of pay when any combination of calls equals seven (71 unit member shall be entitled to a paid meal break otfe minutes or more, if the call extends past this minimum one-half (1/2) hour, but in no event shall a unit mem-h overtime will be calculated to the nearest one-quarter ber be entitled to more than one such meal break fori (1/4) hour He will not receive overtime for additional duty-every eight (8) consecutive hours of overtime. j related calls received during this compensation period.
A. For a unit member participating in the 4/1Q w. A unit member on industrial leave and assigned schedule, this provision shall mean that before a unit; to his home will be considered totiave the same duty member is entitled to a second one-half (1/2) hour; hours and N-days, up to a seven (7) calendar day pe-paid meal break, he shall have worked on an over-S nod, as the squad he was on when the injury/illness time basis for a minimum of four (4) hours beyond the; occurred. After the seven (7) days, he may be reas-end of his regularly scheduled ten (10) hour work shift,; signed to new duty hours and/or “N days
8.	If work demands preclude a unit member W 11. A unit member who scheduled a leave day thirty taking a meal period, the unit member will be paid a® (30) calendar days in advance through his immediate additional thirty (30) minutes at the straight time ratejj non-unit supervisor in accordance with departmental This benefit shall apply only if the interruption occurs; policy and who subsequently is placed on court stand-during the first thirty (30) minutes of the meal period, by, or is required to appear in court will, by his choice, jreceive overtime pay in accordance with this Article
9.	When a unit member is off duty and is contacted;and Article 9A and/or 9B, in addition to the leave day by telephone by his supervisor because of the uni(j	y'
member’s official duties, for purposes other than calKj 12. A unit member who scheduled a leave day but
-52-	.53.
failed to do so within thirty (30) calendar days in advance, and who is placed on stand-by or called to court, will receive overtime pay in accordance with this Article and Article 9A. However the number of leave hours taken will be reduced by the number of overtime hours paid. Court stand-by hours do not apply to this provision. §
ARTICLE 9A
COURT TIME OVERTIME
Court, State of Arizona; City Court, City of Phoenix, State of Arizona; Municipal Courts in Maricopa County; Justice Court; Federal, State, County Grand Juries; Motor Vehicle Department hearings, and Prosecutorial and Defense interviews. It is understood that this Article shall not apply to administrative hearings including but not limited to arbitration hearings pursuant to the MOU, Civil Service Board hearings, PERB hearings, and hearings pursuant to the A.R. 2.61 grievance procedure.
1. When court time constitutes overtime, a unit member shall be entitled to overtime compensation/? minimum call-out pay consistent with Article 12 of; this Memorandum of Understanding.
3. After a unit member verifies his need to appear in court to testify concerning the performance of his official duties at a time other than his regularly scheduled tour of duty, and he is notified less than twelve (12) hours in advance of the scheduled appearance
a rourttime overtime shall be continuous timepime that he need notappear, the unit member will mmnpnsated consistent with Article 8, Section 3. receive two (2) hours of pay at one and one-half (1-cornpensateu consisiem	1/2) fjmes his hour)y Qf pay
B. Effective July 1,1998, no cost parking will be pro| vided for unit members who are called to testify or appear at any City of Phoenix Municipal Court facility for any offH cial police department business, whether on or off-duty.
ARTICLE 9B COURT TIME STAND-BY
1. When a unit member receives a subpoena or other
2 For purposes of this Article the term “Court” shai notice requiring him to stand-by to appear in court io tes-p ■	- ■ ■ ------------------------ ‘'■"'''’"'jtify concerning the performance of his official duties at a
be defined as including Federal District Court; Superior!
-54-
-55-
time other than his regularly scheduled tour of duty, and i he was not notified twelve (12) hours or more in advance ■> of the court appearance that he need not stand-by, he shall; be entitled to a minimum of two (2) hours of pay at one I and one-half (1-1/2) times his base hourly rate of pay for court dockets scheduled before 1200 hours, and an addi-1 tional minimum of two (2) hours of pay at one and one-half (1-1/2) times his base hourly rate of pay for court dockets scheduled after 1200 hours, for each day the subject court proceeding is in session and the Unit member is subject to call, providing the provisions of Section;; 2 hereof are satisfied. If a unit member is required to* remain on stand-by after 1200 hours, the unit member; shall receive an additional one (1) hour of pay at one;: and one-half (1-1/2) times his base hourly rate of pay.:
A. If call-out occurs before the expiration of stand-by pay, then stand-by status shall continue until, the occurrence of either (a) the expiration of standby pay; or (b) arrival at the duty location. Call-out pay and stand-by pay shall not be permitted to overlap resulting in the compounding of compensation.,
2. If a unit member fails to exercise his responsibil-j ity to contact the appropriate representative of the courfjj
or a party sixteen (16) hours or less before the time indicated on the subpoena to determine the continued need for him to stand-by, he is not eligible for any stand-by pay.
3.	For the purpose of this Memorandum, subpoena refers to a subpoena duly issued by a court or the Arizona Motor Vehicle Department.
4.	For purposes of this Article the term “Court" shall be defined as including Federal District Court; Superior Court, State of Arizona; City Court, City of Phoenix, State of Arizona; Municipal Courts in Maricopa County; Justice Court; Federal, State, County Grand Juries; Motor Vehicle Department hearings; and Prosecutorial and Defense interviews. It is understood that this Article shall not apply to administrative hearings including but not limited to arbitration hearings pursuant to the MOU, Civil Service Board hearings, PERB hearings, and hearings pursuant to the A.R. 2.61 grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 10 STAND-BY PAY
1. When a unit member is required and assigned to be available for immediate emergency call-out at times

that he is not otherwise on duty and the unit member?? negligence, whether in the proper care and use of City complies with departmental regulations incident thereto, equipment, or for his failure to complete official reports he shall be compensated as follows; $60.00 on the unit:; prior to securing for the day, shall be paid for such callmember’s non-work day and $40.00 on a work day. back consistent with Article 8, Section 3, provided, how?? ever, the unit member shall not be eligible for the three 2. When management determines it is necessary toj (3) hour guaranteed minimum pursuant to this Ar-provide call-out service, stand-by assignments will bey tide. If a claim of negligence is disputed, it may be-maintained in, but not be limited to, the following de-s come subject to the grievance procedure herein, tails: Traffic Investigators Unit (TIU), Bomb, Canine, DRE,: -
MACVan.SAU, Sex Crimes, Homicide Detail, Assaults;? 2. Anytime that a unit member is called back after Unit, Special Projects Unit, Critical Incident Stress DH leaving City facilities at a time other than his regularly briefing (C.I.S.D.) Team, Documents Crimes Unity assigned shift, the unit member will receive a minimum (DCU), and the Family Investigation Bureau (F.I.B.). y of three (3) hours pay at time and one-half the unit ’	y member’s base pay calculated to the nearest quarter (1/
ARTICLE 11	14) hour; except that a unit member shall not be eligible
JURY DUTY	I foradditional compensation during thatthree hour period.
When a unit member is called upon to serve as a juror in? A. Compensation to a unit member who is called any court action, he will be allowed leave from his duties?? out at times other than his regularly scheduled shift will without loss of pay for the time required for his service, gbegin at the time the unit member is notified. The ^compensation will continue up to thirty (30) minutes ARTICLE 12	ybeyond the completion of the duties for which the
CALL-OUT PAY	|unit member was called out, or until the member re-
turns to his residence, whichever is first. Where ap-1. A unit member called back because of his ow|plicable, the travel time shall be paid only if the total
-58-	I	*59-
work and allowed travel time exceed the minimum j tial shall be increased to sixty cents ($.60) per hour
call out guarantee. Travel time shall not apply when a unit member is working overtime planned in advance.
3.	A unit member beginning an overtime period! within three (3) hours or less prior to the regularly sched- ; uled duty reporting time, will be compensated from the! time the overtime period begins to the time he is scheduled to report for duty except that a unit member shall not; be eligible for additional compensation during that period.;
4.	Holdovertime, i.e., being held over on shift (no
break in duty exceeding fifteen (15) minutes) will be 4. A unit member shall receive twenty-five cents romoensated for actual time spent in accordance with| ($.25) per hour in addition to his base hourly rate of pay com"	and any other shift differential or any other premium pay
Section 3 ol Article 8.
ARTICLE 13 NIGHTSHIFT DIFFERENTIAL WEEKEND SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
1.	A unit member shall receive fifty cents ($.50)'! per hour in addition to his base hourly rate of pays when working a night shift or any portions of a night shift which ends at or after 10:00 PM. Effective the
first pay period in July, 1995, the night shift differen-j B. A unit member who is called out and works
2.	A unit member shall receive night shift pay differential only for hours scheduled and worked, and not while on paid leave time.
3.	A unit member who is called out and works between the hours of 10:00 PM and 6:00 AM will be paid night shift differential for all hours worked at the rate specified in this Article. If a unit member was called out while on a stand-by status, he will not receive night shift differential.
he may be receiving for working a weekend shift. A designated weekend shift is defined as any shift that starts on or after 2:00 PM on Friday, and continuing through any shift that starts on or before, but not after 11:59 PM on Sunday.
A. A unit member shall receive weekend shift pay differential only for hours scheduled and worked, and not while on paid leave.
'll:	-60-	I	-61-
between 2:00 PM on Friday and 11:59 PM on Sunday| will be paid weekend shift differential for all hours| worked at the rate specified in this Article. If a unit| member was called out while on stand-by status, he will not receive weekend shift differential,	g
ARTICLE 14	|
OUT-OF-RANK PAY	I
r<i ii
1,	A unit member who is temporarily required to serve in a regular authorized position in a supervisoryj classification, (e.g., sergeant), shall be compensated at) the higher rate of pay in accordance with the following:)
2.	To be eligible for the additional compensation, the unit member must first accumulate ten (10) regu-| lar working shifts of assignment in the higher rank| within any twelve (12) month period; satisfactory):
performance during a previous appointment to the|j
higher rank will be credited to the qualifying period. The) 6. A unit member who has qualified under these prodays of out-of-rank assignment need not necessarily be) visions shall be compensated at the minimum rate es-consecutive. Once this qualification is satisfied, no ad-nablished for the higher rank for all shifts worked be-ditional re-qualification will be required. All shifts^yond the 10th shift served in the higher rank. In the event worked beyond the tenth (1 Oth) shift in the supervisory^ of overlapping salary ranges, a one-step differential shall classification will be subject to the higher rate of pay. | be paid for out-of-rank assignments. The higher rate of
3,	Temporary assignments out-of-rank shall be recorded only in full shift units, A unit member working out-of-rank for less than one (1) full shift will not be credited with working out-of-rank service time,
4,	To qualify for out-of-rank pay, a unit member must be assuming substantially the full range of duties and responsibilities of the higher level position. Out-of-rank pay is not authorized, for example, if the organization of a work unit is such that each unit member carries on his normal duties during the temporary absence of a supervisor, without a need for the direction which the supervisor would provide on a longer term basis.
5.	Time worked in a higher rank shall not earn credits toward the completion of probationary requirements in the higher rank.
-62-
-63-
pay shall be used in computing overtime when autho-g rized overtime is served in out-of-rank work assignments; ) the overtime rate shall be the rate established by the) overtime regulations that apply to the higher rank. J §
ARTICLE 15
OFF-DUTY EMPLOYMENT	|
1.	The Department agrees to maintain a list of unit!) members who are interested in off-duty work for use in making job referrals, provided the unit member has received prior approval to engage in off-duty employment! from the immediate non-unit supervisor


2.	Off-duty employment shall be governed by the rules: and regulations of the Phoenix Police Department. Should); the Department contemplate any changes in these rules? and regulations during the life of the MOD, it shall meet) and consult with the Association on such changes in thej Labor-Management Committee prior to implementation. J
i
3.	The Police Chief agrees to eliminate the limita-J tion of the number of off-duty work hours permitted.^ However, the Department reserves the right to take? appropriate action in the event that a unit member^
performance is adversely affected.
4.	A unit member who works off duty in a police function for a City-sponsored event or project, and is paid through City payroll, will be compensated at time and one-half his regular rate of pay for all time worked.
ARTICLE 16 UNIFORM, CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT ALLOWANCES
1.	Department-issued equipment, as follows:
A. The Police Department will furnish to each unit
member entering the department the following;
1 Uniform Belt
1 Handcuff Case
1 Holster
1 Helmet
1 Cartridge Case
1 Service Weapon
1 Mace Holder
1 Mace Canister
1 Pair of Handcuffs and Key
1 Uniform Breast Badge
B. Pilot’s equipment list as follows:
The Police Department will furnish the following to each! the annual allowance per month from the first day of the
unit member assigned to the Air Support Detail:
| 3. A new unit member will receive an initial fiscal j year uniform allowance equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of
I month of his employment through the end of the fiscal I year. This payment will be made in-a lump sum during the first sixty (60) days of employment.
1 Flat Badge with Case	I each MOU year. Such payment will be made to cover the
1 Puncture resistant gloves	| cost of uniforms, maintenance, cleaning of such uniforms,
The Department also agrees to provide	| and for other duty-related expenses and for the unit mem-
“spit Mask” on a continous basis. i ber to provide a required flashlight and fresh batteries.
2
1
Nomax (or equivalent in quality) Flight Suits;
Flight Helmet	।
Nomax Gloves (pair)	;
Standard Headset
Custom Ear Protectors (ear molds) (pair)
C. The Department shall replace those items as they, in the judgment of the Department, become unserviceable due to wear or damage in the course and scope of official duties.
2.	A unit member will receive one thousand one hundred and twenty dollars ($1,120) clothing allowance pet annum. Barring unforeseen circumstances, payment foi uniform allowance will be made on or before August 1 ol
-66-
4. A unit member who leaves City employment ; shall repay to the City the uniform allowance equal to | one-twelfth (1/12) of the annual allowance per month i for each month remaining in the fiscal year after the
last day of the month in which separation occurs, provided, however, that a unit member who retires will not be required to repay any uniform allowance. In addition, the family or beneficiary of a unit member who dies while in the employment of the City shall not have to pay back any uniform allowance.
5. A unit member who has been on extended leave (paid or unpaid), excluding industrial leave, sick leave,
-67-

or military leave of two (2) months or longer, shajj*Bicycles will be furnished by the City have the next annual uniform allowance reduced M
one-twelfth (1/12) of the annual allowance for ead B. A unit member assigned to the following demonth of extended leave.	^ils/squads/units will receive, on or before August 1 of
M MOU year, in addition to his initial uniform allow-6. A. On or before August 1 of each MOU year, jnces described in section 6A above, an annual mainte-unif member assigned to the following details/squad|ance allowance per the following schedule:
units will, in addition to his annual clothing allowance be provided a one-time payment per the following scheo ule upon initial transfer to that assignment, i
Canine	$320
SAU (Tactical)	$320
Air Patrol	$320
Solo Motor	$320
SCUBA Team	$320
TRU	$320
Detectives*	$320
Mounted Horse Officers $320
Bike Officers**	$320
Canine	, $320
SAU (Tactical)	$320
Air Patrol	$320
Solo Motor	$320
SCUBA Team	$320
Detectives	$320
TRU	$320
Mounted Horse Officers $320
Bike Officers	$320
he provisions of Section 4 of this Article shall apply o this Subsection.
* Detective is defined as a certified detective who is in
7.	A. A unit member who purchases anew ballis-
detective or investigative assignment or an assignmeic vest shall, upon showing proof of purchase, be that normally requires the unit member to wear civiliaaimbursed an amount up to, but not exceeding, five
“business clothes.
undred dollars ($500).
-68-
-69-
B. Upon replacement of his ballistic vest, a urj member shall be entitled to the above five hundred dc| lar ($500) reimbursement every five (5) years. ji
8. A. The City agrees to reimburse a unit men| ber for the repair or replacement of uniform itenj and for other personal property damaged in the couri of employment and performance of their assign^ duties without fault or negligence on the part of tig unit member, other than normal wear and tear in a| cordance with the schedule of items and maximui amounts authorized for reimbursement outlined belol
Business Suit
Business Dress
Sport Coat
Dress Shirt
Dress Trousers
Dress Skirt
All Shoes
Uniform Boots
Motorcycle Boots
Glasses - prescription
Sunglasses -non-prescription
Watches
$203 54
120
22 42
35
52 ALL ALL 165
20 62
Jewelry
Police Uniform Trousers
Police Motorcycle Breeches
Police Uniform Shirt
Police Jacket
Police Motorcycle Jacket
Flashlight
Ballistic Vest
53 ALL ALL ALL ALL ALL
60 ALL
Service Weapon and (up to cost of City weapon) authorized attached accessories
B.	Reimbursements for full, 3/4,1/2,1/4, value are
bed on the supervisor’s evaluation and recommenda-|ns of the article’s condition and age. Items not listed love are not covered by the policy.
C.	The option to repair or replace damaged items, fe to determine whether replaced property will be re-rned to unit member, rests with the City.
is
D.	The provisions of this policy shall not apply if |e unit member has concealed or misrepresented any ma-jrial fact or circumstances concerning the subject of the |ss, his interests therein, or in the case of any fraud or fee statements by the unit member relating thereto.

-70-
-71-
I i|.i f	9. Upon duty related retirement, the City will pr|f this MOU, provided he has transitioned to carrying a
j ph1! p	vide the retiring member a “Retired Police Officelemiautomatic pistol as a primary service weapon, or
J i :	Commission Card" similar in appearance to the reg|ithin 90 days of receipt of a department-issued semi-
1L1'. . lar Commission Card,	pomatic pistol, whichever occurs first.
10.	Upon duty related retirement, a unit member yjl2. A unit member assigned to the Canine Detail will ii; 1:	receive his breast badge mounted on a plaque, a “|ave the option of purchasing his dog as follows:
tired” flat badge and case, handcuffs, and his fully fur
tional department-issued service weapon, including A. If both the police dog and the unit member
three (3) duty magazines, for one dollar ($1.00). If t unit member dies in the line of duty or while employed
ave been in the Canine Detail in excess of five (5) years, t retirement the unit member may purchase his dog for
the department, the unit member’s spouse or an adult si ne dollar ($1.00).
vivor may elect to receive these items, except for the fl badge and case, for one dollar ($1.00) which will be pa
B. If both the police dog and the unit member have
by PLEA. The unit member’s spouse or adult survivor u een in the Canine Detail in excess of five (5) years and the
have the option of receiving the service weapon in a fu
nit member leaves other than for retirement, the decision
functional condition, or may request the unit membefeallowthe purchase of his dog will be made on a case by service weapon be disabled and mounted In a shadow bojase basis and this decision will not be arbitrary.
or may decline receiving the service weapon. The choii will be made in writing. PLEA will provide a gun safe device, upon request by the unit member.
ARTICLE 17 REIMBURSEMENT FOR EDUCATION EXPENSES
11.	A unit member may purchase his department-i
sued revolver(s) for the fair market value. He may pi ssistance Program shall be eligible for tuition reim-
chase the revolver(s) within 90 days of the effective da
1.	A unit member who participates in the Tuition
ursement pursuant to the following provisions:
-72-
-73-
ARTICLE 19 HOLIDAY BENEFITS
B. No unit member shall be reimbursed | courses taken in excess of eighteen (18) credit hot| in any fiscal year, i.e., July 1 through June 30, ri
A. The maximum sum reimbursable to a upm out-of-state while on an authorized vacation by member shall be a sum equal to the Arizona residjder of the Chief of Police, he shall be reimbursed rate charged at Arizona State University for two |r necessary and provable transportation expenses semesters (Spring and Fall) of nine (9) credits ea| determined by the Police Chief.
shall they be entitled to reimbursement for more thlunit member shall be entitled to holiday benefits as nine (9) credit hours in any one (1) semester. It forth in Paragraph 3 of General Order No. B-3, deluding overtime compensation for hours assigned C. To be eligible for any reimbursement, a und worked on a specified holiday in accordance with member must have successfully completed academd subject to Article 8, Overtime.
or training courses approved by the Chief of Police and 1
Personnel Director as provided in existing regulations] 1. The compensation of a unit member who actu-|y works on a day designated as a holiday shall inD. Unit members shall be allowed to use upaide, in addition to his regular day's pay, additional $500.00 of their reimbursement benefit for job-|y or compensatory time for hours worked up to lated seminars, workshops, and professional mefeht (8) hours excluding overtime pay.
berships each fiscal year.	r
ARTICLE 18 OUT-OF-STATE VACATION RECALL
2.	A unit member who is not scheduled to work on a signated holiday will still be compensated tor eight ) hours pay or compensatory time for each holiday.
When a unit member is temporarily recalled to di
-74-
-75-
3. Paid holidays shall include:
New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King, Jr's Birthday
President’s Day
Memorial Day
|(e, holiday pay shall be applied as follows:
t A. When a designated paid holiday falls on a unit ^ember’s scheduled day off, the unit member shall be |aid eight (8) hours of holiday pay.
Independence Day
Labor Day
Veterans Day
Thanksgiving Day Friday after Thanksgiving Christmas Day
Two Personal Leave Days* & *
? B. When a designated paid holiday falls on a unit jiember’s normally scheduled work day and the unit jiember is directed to not work that day, the unit member shall be paid for eight (8) hours of holiday pay. The additional two (2) hours necessary to receive ten (10) ours of pay will be deducted at the unit member’s dis-retion as either non-paid time, accumulated vacation
Caesar Chavez Birthday (Effective March 31,200 r compensatory time. If a unit member has no accu-
* After six (6) months of continuous service.
lulated vacation or compensatory time, the unit mem-ier will receive only eight (8) hours of pay. The compen-
ation of a unit member who actually works on a day des-
* * Personal leave will be a total of 20 hours for all gnated as a holiday shall include, in addition to his regular unit members.	jay's pay, additional pay or compensatory time for hours
worked up to eight (8) hours, excluding overtime pay.
A. Subject to operational and scheduling factor!
a unit member’s personal leave days shall be taken ead 5. A unit member who is not scheduled to work on a calendar year on any day of the unit member’s choosindoliday will be allowed to sell up to eight (8) hours ac-rued and unused vacation time on a holiday.
4. Fora unit member participating in the 4/10 schetf
If.
N
§ commuting to or from his work location, for a period of I two hours each way, the City will continue to pay the full ij monthly health insurance premium for the spouse and all eligible dependents. This policy will be consistent with " the terms of the 1997 agreement between the City of Phoenix and CIGNA Group Insurance, for the payment of a J supplementary commutation life insurance policy for each unit member. The Association will pay the cost of this benefit, if any, the first year of each new MOU period.
4. In the event Congress passes legislation which considers the amount the City contributes to health or dental insurance as imputed income, then the City will consider such contributions as income to the employee.
ARTICLE 20A RETIREE HEALTH INSURANCE
1. Upon retirement of a unit member, for bargaining unit member who retired on August 1,1992 or later, the City’s contribution to health care premiums will be calculated without regard to age.
6.	A unit member will continue to receive holiday pay while on industrial leave.
ARTICLE 20 HEALTH INSURANCE
1.	Effective August 1,2000 and August 1,2001, the City and Association agree to maintain the current 80/ 20 split for health insurance monthly contribution for the single and family coverage. If there is a rate increase or decrease, the city will pay 80% of the new monthly contribution and the employee will pay 20%.
2.	If there is a substantive change in the City’s Health Insurance Plan design, the Labor Relations Administrator will discuss such change with the Association.
3.	In the event of the death of a unit member while on duty or while performing a police function as determined by the City, the City will continue to pay the full monthly health insurance premium for the spouse and all eligible dependents. Should the surviving spouse remarry,; the benefits of this provision shall be discontinued. i
A. In the event of the death of a unit member while

2. In no event will the combination of this contribution and the amount paid by the PSPRS (Public Safety
-78-
-79-
2. The plan shall consist of 80% payment of reason-
the Plan, or its successors appointed in accordance witfttrie and customary charges covered for preventive and
-80-
-81-
this agreement. The parties hereto designate Nationwicj Retirement Solutions to act as Plan Administrator ft|
3. The City of Phoenix agrees to participate in th| Post Employee Health Plan (PEHP) for unit members | accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plant
1. Commencing August 1,1994, the City shall pay :he full premium costs for single coverage and seventy-
ARTICLE 20B DENTAL INSURANCE
Personnel Retirement System) exceed the monthly pre| mium for the chosen health insurance benefit. f;
tribute for each unit member the amount of $6.00 (sii$4,000 Effective August 1,2003) per person. This plan dollars per pay period. If any contribution is an amoul subject to the deductibles and limitations contained other than an equal dollar amount per unit member, th* the contract between the dental insurance carrier contribution shall be deposited in the unit member|nd the City of Phoenix. Enrollment in prior City of
the Plan and Trust documents. The Employer agrees ^agnostic services, basic services,*and major services contribute to the Plan on behalf of unit members: ~ ' — ■ ■ ■ ■	.................
the plan shall also include an orthodontia benefit prodding for 80% payment of reasonable and customary For the term of the Agreement, the Employer shall coi|harges up to a maximum lifetime benefit of $2,500
live percent (75%) of the premium costs for family cov-Participation Agreement, a copy of which is attached |rage for a City dental plan.
Health Insurance Premium Reimbursement sub-accounfhoenix dental plans counts toward major services
otherwise the Employer’s equal dollar amount contribifime limit exclusions.
tion per unit member shall be deposited into the uni
member’s Universal Health Care Reimbursement sutfffective August 1,2000 and August 1,2001, if there account pursuantto the terms and conditions of the Plaila rate increase or decrease, the City will pay 100% lithe new monthly contribution for single coverage, f there is a rate increase or decrease, the City will

aa
pay 75% of the new monthly contribution, and tljed duty status bythe employer. Such assignment may be employee will pay 25% for family coverage. (hade without regard to the unit member’s normal assignment and shall be made within the Police Department
ARTICLE 200
DEFERRED COMPENSATION	ARTICLE 21A
3 SICK LEAVE CONVERSION AT RETIREMENT
Effective July 1,2002, the City will contribute one ai|
one eighteenth percent (1.18%) of each unit membeEffective at the beginning of the first pay period in July, monthly gross wages to the deferred compensation aj992, the following benefits shall apply: count of the un it member’s choosi ng.
i: 1. Definitions:
ARTICLE 21
LEAVE OF ABSENCE	A. “Qualifying hours” - the minimum number
jl accrued and unused sick leave credits existing on 1. Subject to development of administrative centrode last day of service prior to retirement, which are a unit member who has no other accumulative paid lea|ecessary before a unit member can participate in may use up to ten (10) hours per year of accumulate benefit program.
sick leave for non-emergency home care or medical treajj
ment for a member of the unit member’s immediate fanj B. “Base number of hours” or “base hours” - the ily subject to operational and scheduling factors. Wh^umber of hours of accrued and unused sick leave credits utilizing this benefit, the member shall identify the u|hich are uncompensated under this Article and above of such time as “non-emergency family illness." Surjrhich the City will compensate the unit member, leave request shall not be unreasonably withheld.
C. “Base hourly wage”-the base hourly rate of pay 2. An ill or injured unit member may be assigned lirjeing paid at tile time of retirement to the retiring unit mem-
-82-
-83-

berwho qualifies for participation in this benefit programed retirement shall be eligible for payment of an
2. Benefit and Eligibility:
Amount of compensation equal to sixty percent (60%) of his base hourly wage for ail hours.
A.	A unit member who has accumulated a min^ D. A unit member who has accrued 1714 hours j mum of nine hundred (900) hours or more of accruer more of unused sick leave may elect to have the addi-| and unused sick leave at the time of a duty-relational sick leave that he earns paid to him as salary on a | retirement shall be eligible for payment of an amoufconthly basis. Once the employee elects to exercise this 3 of compensation equal to thirty-five percent (SS^enefit, it must continue for the lull three (3) consecu-i of his base hourly wage for all hours in excess $ve year period. The employee may stop and re-start
four hundred and fifty (450) hours; or
jiis benefit one time without further qualification upto a Maximum of a total of six (6) years.
B.	A unit member who has accumulated a mi^
mum of one thousand two hundred eighty six (1,28|he intent of the new language placed in the 2002-2004 qualifying hours or more of accrued and unused sifil.O.U. in Article 21A section 2D is “an employee may leave at the time of a duty related retirement shall tfeceive a one-time, one year extension to the three (3) eligible for payment of an amount of compensatidear period. The maximum of a total of six (6) years, i.e. equal to sixty percent (60%) of his base hourly rajnd additional two (2) years above the four (4) years for all hours in excess of three hundred eighty sliaybe possible if approved by the Police Chief, the Union (386) hours.	president, and the Labor Relations Administrator.”
C.	Commencing July 1, 1998, a unit memb(| 3. Administration:
who has accumulated a minimum of one thousand
seven hundred and fourteen (1,714) hours or mo( A. At the time of retirement, the City's Em-of accrued and unused sick leave at the time of a dujloyee Benefits Division, or such other individual or
-84-
-85-

agency as the City may designate, shall determine leverage, and will continue the face value of the policy unit member’s eligibility and the amount of unus(t fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000). The City will sick leave to be compensated,	Continue the current policy for death in the line of
luty at thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000).
B. The unit member shall verily in writing tl|
computations of the Employee Benefits Division. ■ 2. Effective August 1,2001, the City will increase the jhirty-five thousand dollar ($35,000.00) line of duty life C. In the event a unit member’s eligibility f|jnd dismemberment insurance coverage to each unit
participation or the amount of compensation is dumber to one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). puted, then the dispute shall be submitted to the Ci|
Auditorfor binding resolution.	( 3. Additionally, the City will provkfeto each unitmem-
|er a $200,000 death benefit covering the unit
ARTICLE 21B	^ember’s commutation to and from his city work lo-
SICK LEAVE PAYOUT	Ration. This policy will be consistent with the policy
Negotiated in 1997 with CIGNA Group Insurance and All accumulated sick leave hours on the city’s officibill cover the unit member’s commute for up to two file at the time of the member’s death will be paijours before his shift begins and two hours after his Payment will be based upon the member’s base houijiift concludes. The Association will only pay the cost rate at the time of death.	)f this benefit the first year of the MOU.
ARTICLE 22 LIFE INSURANCE
ARTICLE 23 LONG-TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE
1.	The City will continue the existing off-the-H 1. The City will continue the insurance plan covering and on-the-job life and dismemberment insuranong-term disabilities for all unit members pursuant to
-86-
-87-
ARTICLE 24 PHYSICAL FITHESS
unit member’s basic monthly salary at the time disabi ity occurs, starting three (3) months after the disabilii is incurred and continuing until age eighty (80).
A.R. 2.323 as may be amended (providing that sucj 4. A new unit member will be eligible for this cov-amendmentsshallnotbeinconflictwiththeMOU), pnjrage after the completion of one year of full time viding up to 66-2/3 (effective August 1, 1990) of tljmployment with the City.
2.	The term “total disability," as used in this pr4 1. It is recognized by the parties that it is the respongram, shall mean a unit member’s being unable, asijbilityofa unit member at all times to make every effort result of illness or injury, to perform work in current er® maintain his physical condition so as to be fully fit to ployment. However, after thirty (30) months of benejerform his duties with maximum effectiveness, payments, the term "total disability" shall mean a uri
member’s being unable to perform work in any type | A. To assist a unit member in this respect, the City occupation that the unit member is capable of pertormirfarees to provide and maintain an exercise machine for or may be educated for, trained for, or become experiencrfech precinct station, Deer Valley, Resource Bureaus, 620 in and could reasonably be expected to engage in; in whitest Washington facilities, and at the Training Academy, event, if his earning capacity in such occupation is les	’
than the dollar benefits provided for under the first pan 2. The City will provide required FAA physicals to graph hereof, he shall be entitled to receive the different ilots assigned to the Air Support Unit.
between the said benefit and such earning capacity, i
i 3. If a unit member, while carrying out his official du-
3.	This benefit will be coordinated with sick leav ss is exposed to an infectious disease/virus, the City agrees industrial insurance payments, social security ben pay the expenses for inoculation ofthe member, efits, unemployment insurance and disability prov sions of the retirement plan.
-88-	-89-
ARTICLE25
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3. Procedure
A. Step I
1. Informal Resolution
(1) The unit member shall reduce his griev-
A.	As a matter of good labor-management refl ance to writing by signing and completing ail parts of the lations the parties encourage a unit member who be| grievance form provided by the City and submit it to his lieves that he has a bona fide grievance to discus^ immediate non-unit supervisor within fourteen (14) cal-and attempt to resolve it with his immediate non-uniBendardaysofthe initial commencement ofthe occurrence supervisor as designated by the Chief or his designee!being grieved. The supervisor shall further consider and । discuss the grievance with the grievant and the grievant’s B. If the above informal discussion is hel| representative, if any, as he deems appropriate, and shall, and does not resolve the grievance, the unit me ml within fourteen (14) calendar days of having received the ber may file a formal grievance in accordance wiffiwritten grievance, submit his response thereto in writing the following procedure.	jto the grievant. The parties by written agreement may move
|the grievance to Step II of the grievance procedure.
B.	Step II
2. Definition ol Grievance
(1) If the written response of the immediate hen-unit supervisor does not result in a resolution of the
A. A “grievance” is a written allegation by a un| member, submitted as herein specified, claiming violation(s) of the specific express terms of this Memofi randum for which there is no Civil Service or other spelgrievance, the grievant may appeal the grievance by sign-Aifin mothcd mvipw nmvided bv State or City law. |ng and completing the City form and presenting it to his
cific method of review provided by State or City law.
foivision or Bureau Commander within fourteen (14) calendar days of the grievant’s receipt of the supervisor’s re-
-90-
-91-
sponse. The Division or Bureau Commander may investigate the grievance and may set a meeting with the griev-ant, the grievant’s designated representative, if any, and such other personnel as he deems appropriate to consider the grievance. Within fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt of the grievance, the second level of review shall submit his response to the grievance to the griev-ant and the grievant’s representative, if any.
C.	Step III
(1) If the response of the second level of rel view does not result in resolution of the grievance, thi
grievant may appeal the grievance by signing and com! pleting the City form and presenting it to the Police Chie| within fourteen (14) calendar days of the grievant’s rel
ceipt of the Step II response.
(2) The Chief or designee shall conduct] Head within fourteen (14) calendardays of the meeting. If hearing within fourteen (14) calendar days ol receip Step 3.5 is used, the Labor Relations Administrator shall of the grievance regarding the grievance at which tin not be a member of the Step IV Grievance Committee.
grievant shall be afforded the opportunity to full]! present his position and to be represented. Withtf fourteen (14) days of the hearing, the Police Chief o| his designee shall submit his response to the griev
E. Step IV
(1) If the response of the Police Chief does
antand the grievant’s representative, if any.
D.	Step 3.5
(1)	After the Department Head’s decision, but prior to review by the Grievance Committee, the parties involved may mutually agree to submit the grievance to the Labor Relations Administrator. The grievance, as originally written and the attached response from the Department Head, must be submitted to the Labor Relations Administrator within fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt
of the Department Head’s answer. The Labor Relations Administrator shall, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the
receipt of the grievance, meet with the Department Head or his designee and the unit member and his representa-
hive in an attempt to resolve the grievance. The Labor Relations Administrator shall then submit written recommendations for resolution to the unit member and Department
not result in resolution of the grievance, the grievant may| Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit to within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Step III relthem a list of seven (7) arbitrators who have had experi-sponse, appeal the grievance by signing and completin|ence in the public sector. The parties shall, within seven the City form and presenting it to the Grievance Corn|(7) calendar days of the receipt of said list, select the mittee.The Grievance Committee shall be composed ofij arbitrator by alternately striking names from said list until
jone name remains. Such person shall then become the jarbitrate r. The arbitrator so selected shall hold a hearing | as expeditiously as possible at a time and place conve-(nient to the parties, and shall be bound by the following:
Chairman - A member of the City Manager’s Office designated by the City Manager
Secretary -A designee ol the Labor Relations Administrator,
Member - A different City department head on :	(a) The arbitrator shall be bound by the
a rotating schedule.	hlanguage of the Memorandum and departmental rules
Member - PLEA President or his designee, hand regulations consistent therewith in considering any f issue properly before him
(2)	The Grievance Committee shall sched
ule a hearing regarding the grievance at which the-	(b) The arbitrator shall expressly con-
grievant shall be afforded the opportunity to full|fjne himself to the precise issues submitted to him present his position and to be represented. Und shall have no authority to consider any other is-isue not so submitted to him.
(3)	If the grievant so elects in writing within;
the above time limit, in lieu of such hearing the griev^	(c) The arbitrator shall be bound by
ance may be reviewed by an arbitrator. The parties, oihpplicable State and City law.
their designated representatives, shall agree on an arbk
trator, and if they are unable to agree on an arbitrate; (d) The Grievance Committee or the arbi-within a reasonable time, either party may request thejtrator shall submit findings and advisory recommenda
-94-	|	-95-
tions to the grievant and to the City Manager. The cowjevances must be filed and signed by a unit member, of the arbitrator and any other mutually incurred cos^ubject to the provisions of this Article.
shall be borne equally by the parties.	I
I 6. Employer grievances, should they occur as a (e) The City Manager shall, within fouhsult of official Association activities or actions, in-
teen (14) calendar days of the receipt of the written fincluding the failure to act as required under this agree-ings and recommendations, make the final determinfnent, will be presented directly to the Association tion of the grievance and submit it in writing to the grieljresident or any officer of the Association within ten
ant and his designated representative.
10)	days of the occurrence prompting the grievance.
(The president, or his designee shall in each case provide a written answer within five (5) days from receipt of the grievance. Unresolved employer griev-
4. Time Limits
A. Failure of City Management representatives tLces may be submitted to arbitration pursuant to comply with time limits specified in Paragraph 3 shafctep IV herein, provided the City shall pay for the costs entitle the grievant to appeal to the next level of review the arbitrator for grievances initiated by the City, and failure of the grievant to comply with said time linf its shall constitute abandonment of the grievance; 7. it is understood by the parties that the benefits cept however, that the parties may extend time limits granted by this Article shall not be interpreted or ap-mutual written agreement in advance.	jlied as requiring the employer to count as time
worked, any hours or fractions of hours spent out-
5. The Association may, in its own name, file a grieitide the unit member’s work shift in pursuit of ben-ance that alleges violation by the City of the rights at ‘fits provided by this Article. The employer shall count corded to the Association by the specific terms of Afes time worked any hours or fractions of hours spent tide 5 of the Memorandum. The Association shall fiwithin the unit member’s regular work shift in pur-such grievance at Step III of the Procedure. All oth|uit of benefits provided by this Article.
-96-
-97-
Association that a prohibited action is in progress.
5. Penalties or sanctions the City may assess
unit members covered by this Memorandum.
-99-
-98-
3. Should any unit member during the term of this Memorandum, and until such time that it is expressly and legally rescinded, breach the obligations of Section 2, the
§ against a unit member who violates this Article t shall include, but not be limited to:
A. Discipline up to and including discharge.
B. Loss of all compensation and benefits, including seniority, during the period of such prohibited activity.
ARTICLE 26 NO STRIKE-NO LOCKOUT
randum neither the City nor its agents for any reasonl shall authorize, institute, aid or promote any lockout of!
1. The Association and the unit members covered by this Memorandum recognize and agree that rendering of police services to the community cannot under any circumstances or conditions be withheld, interrupted, or discontinued, and to do so would endangerthe health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City of Phoenix
2. The Association pledges to maintain unimpaired municipal services as directed by the City. Neither the Association, nor any unit member, for any reason, will authorize, institute, aid, condone or engage in a slowdown, work stoppage, strike, or any other interference with the work and statutory functions and obligations ol the City orthe Department. During the term of this Memo-
I 4. The Association shall forthwith, through its execu-j tive officers and other authorized representatives, disavow s said strike or other prohibited action, and shall notify in | writing all Association members and representatives of j their obligation and responsibility for maintaining com-| pliance with this Article, including their responsibility to j remain at work during any interruption which may be i caused or initiated by others. Copies of such notifica-l tion shall be delivered to the office' of the City Manager I In addition, the Association shall order all unit members | violating this Article to immediately return to work and j cease the strike or other prohibited activity. Such order | shall be delivered both orally and in writing to all unit | members violating this Article with copies of the written I order to be delivered to the office of the City Manager
6.	Should the Association during the term ol this Memorandum and until such time that it is expressly and legally rescinded, breach its obligations under this Article, it is agreed that all penalties set forth in Section 13 of Ordinance G-3303 as amended, shall be imposed on the Association, in addition to any other legal and administrative remedies available to the City that in its discretion it may elect to pursue.
7.	Nothing contained herein shall preclude the City from obtaining judicial restraint or from seeking damages from the Association, in the event of a violation of this Article.
ARTICLE 27
AID TO CONSTRUCTION OF PROVISIONS OF MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	It is intended by the parties hereto that the provisions of this Memorandum shall be tn harmony with the
rights, duties, obligations and responsibilities which by, law devolve upon the City Council, City Manager, Chief ol Police, and other City boards and officials, and these provisions shall be interpreted and applied in such manner.
-100-
i
J 2. The Association recognizes the powers, duties ! and responsibilities oi the Chief of Police as set forth i in the Charter and Ordinances and that pursuant j thereto the Chief of Police has the authority to estab-j lish rules and regulations applicable to the operation j of the Police Department and to the conduct of the ? police officers employed therein, subject to the ex-| press provisions of this Memorandum.
| 3. The lawful provisions of this Memorandum are } binding upon the parties for the term thereof. The j Association having had an opportunity to raise all | matters in connection with the meet and confer pro-j ceedings resulting in this Memorandum is precluded I from initiating any further meeting and conferring for I the term thereof relative to matters under the control i of the Chief of Police, the City Council or the City ; Manager This section shall not be construed to limit ! free and informal discussions under Article 32 hereof.
ARTICLE 28
COPIES OF MEMORANDUM
Within sixty (60) days that this Memorandum is adopted by the City Council, the Association will ar-
-101-
range for printing of jointly approved copies of it for I furnishing one to every unit member, unit supervisor and to management personnel. The cost of such duplication and distribution will be borne equally by the Association and the City. Printing vendors secured by the Association shall comply with Ordinance G-1372 (Affirmative Action Supplier’s Ordinance) and Ordinance G-1901 (Affirmative Action Employment by Contractors, Subcontractors, and Suppliers).
ARTICLE 29 CHANGES IN DEPARTMENT GENERAL ORDERS PURSUANT TO THIS MEMORANDUM
1. Within sixty (60) days from the date this Memorandum is adopted by the City Council, the Department shall print copies of those Department General Orders and Operations Orders reflecting changes pursuant to this Memorandum. Copies of such changes shall be available to each unit member on or about July 1 of each MOU year or as soon thereafter as possible. Prior to the printing of the described changes, the Chief of Police or his representative shall review such changes with a representative of the Association to insure that such changes are consistent with
-102-
the specific express terms of the Memorandum.
| 2. During the preparation of changes to the | Department’s General Orders, Operations Orders, j PMRs, and precinct/bureaus manuals, drafts of the I proposed changes will be staffed out to the Association.
ARTICLE 30
{ TERM AND EFFECT OF MEMORANDUM
I 1. This Memorandum shall remain in full force and j effect beginning with the first regular pay period com-’j mencing in July 2002, up to the beginning of the first | regular pay period commencing in July 2004, and I thereafter shall continue in effect year-by-year unless | one of the parties notifies the other in writing no later I than November 1 of its request to meet and confer i regarding a new Memorandum.
2.	Except as expressly provided in this Memorandum, the City shall not be required to meet and confer concerning any matter, whether covered or not covered herein, during the term or extensions thereof. This paragraph is not intended to preclude informal discussions under Article 32 hereof.
-103-
3.	The provisions of this Memorandum shall be I subject to Federal, State, Charter, and existing local laws that vest jurisdiction and authority in the City ; Council, Phoenix Employment Relations Board, and I Phoenix Civil Service Board.
4.	This Memorandum constitutes the total and en- j tire agreements between the parties and no verbal I statement shall supersede any of its provisions.
ARTICLE 31	!
SAVING CLAUSE
1.	If any Article or Section of this Memorandum j should be held invalid by operation of law or by a final non-appealable order of the Phoenix Employment Rela- j tions Board or a final judgment of any court of compe- ( tent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement j of any Article or Section should be restrained by such tri- [ bunal, the remainder of this Memorandum shall not be j affected thereby, and upon issuance of such final order or decree, the parties, upon request of either of them, shall meet and confer to endeavor to agree on a substitute pro- j vision or that such a substitute provision is not indicated, i
2.	It is recognized by the parties that currently the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act are applicable to certain of the wage and premium pay provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and that this MOU shall be administered in compliance with the Act for so long as the Act is applicable.
3.	It is recognized by the parties that currently the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act are applicable to certain of the provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and that this MOU shall be administered in compliance with the Act for so long as the Act is applicable.
ARTICLE 32 LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
1.	There shall be a Labor-Management Committee consisting of three (3) representatives of the Association and three (3) representatives of the Department and City. The purpose of the Committee is to facilitate improved Labor-Management relationships by providing an informal forum for the free exchange of views and discussions of mutual concerns and problems as distinguished from meeting and conferring.
-104-
-105-
2.	The Committee shall meet at least quarterly at mutually scheduled times.
3.	The City’s Administrative Services Manager or his designee shall be the Chairman. The members shall, in advance of a meeting, provide the meeting’s Chairman with proposed agenda items, and the Chairman shall provide the members with the meeting agenda in advance of the meeting.
4.	Representatives of the Association on the Committee who are unit members shall not lose pay or benefits for meetings mutually scheduled during their duty time up to a maximum of three (3) hours per unit member per meeting.
5.	It is understood by the parties that the benefits granted by this Article shall not be interpreted or applied as requiring the employer to count as time worked, any hou rs or fractions of hours spent outside the unit member’s work shift in pursuit of benefits provided by this Article. The employer shall count as time worked any hours or fractions of hours spent within the unit member’s regular work shift in pursuit of benefits provided by this Article.
-106-
6.	During the term of this MOU, the Committee will discuss the following topics:
A.	Physical fitness
B.	PLEA position on all department committees
C.	Proposed article 4.A-LR.P.
D.	Affirmative declaration statement by investigators upon on set of investigation.
E.	3/13 hour work shift.
ARTICLE 33' VACATION LEAVE
1.	The City agrees to maintain its present vacation selection procedure and, to every extent practicable, allow a transferred unit member to maintain his previous vacation schedule.
2.	A unit member who works a schedule at full time fifty-two (52) weeks of the year shall be credited with vacation credits for every completed calendar month of paid service according to the following schedule:
A.	Through 5 years of service	8 hrs. per month*
B.	6th through 10th year of service 10 hrs. per month
-107-
C.	11th through 15th year of service 11 hrs. per month D. 16th through 20th year of service 13 hrs. per month E. 21 st year of service and thereafter 15 hrs. per month
* Increase effective November 1,2002
3.	Effective June 1,1990, a unit member who has accrued his maximum vacation carryover, and who has attained a minimum of seventeen (17) years of service, may elect to have the additional vacation leave that he earns paid to him on a monthly basis during and for the upcoming three (3) consecutive years. Once the unit member elects to exercise this benefit, it must continue for the full three (3) consecutive year period. The unit member may receive a one-time, one (1) year extension to the three (3) year period. Effective July 1,2000 a unit member may electto exercise this benefit one additional time, provided he has accrued at least three hundred (300) leave hours at the time of the second election.
A. Additionally, eighty (80) hours of vacation time can be accumulated above the maximum vacation carryover into the last three (3) years of service. These hours must be used as paid time off prior to retirement.
-108-
4.	Vacation accrual, carryover and compensa-tion at separation is as follows:
Years of	Accrual	Maximum Carryover	Maximum Accrual
Service	Rate Per	into New Calendar	Compensated at
	Month	Year	Separation
0-5	7 hrs.	168 hrs.	210 hrs.
6-10	10 hrs.	240 hrs.	300 hrs.
11-15	11 hrs.	264 hrs. -	330 hrs.
16-20	13 hrs.	312 hrs.	390 hrs.
21+	15 hrs.	360 hrs.	450 hrs.
* S hrs. effective November 1,2002
** In the last three years of service an additional 80 may be carried over into a new calendar year.
5.	For the purposes of determining monthly vacation Accrual rates for a unit member who had a break in service, if the unit member was reemployed within five (5) years, the amount of time the person is gone is subtracted from his previous service, thereby giving the unit member a new accrual service date.
-109-
■—-
ARTICLE 34 SENIORITY
1.	The City shall provide the Association with a list of unit members showing each unit member’s City employment date and class employment date.
2.	Seniority shall be by length of service within a class. If seniority within the class is not determinative, then length of service with the City shall prevail.
3.	Seniority shall be used as a factor consistent with established Civil Service procedures in choice of work assignments, vacation schedules and in the determination of layoffs.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have set their hand this 5th day of June 2002.
PHOENIX LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSOCIATION NEGOTIATIONS TEAM:
By. R.C. Jake Jacobsen - President, Member Joe R. Glare - Treasurer, Chief Negotiator Levi Bolton - Vice President, Member Mark Spencer - Secretary, Member Michelle Monaco - Board Trustee, Member Steve Peratta - Board Trustee, Member Rich Wooten - Board Trustee, Member Dale Norris - Legial Advisor, Member
CITY OF PHOENIX BARGAINING COMMITTEE:
By: Gregory E. Fretz - Labor Relations Administrator Mike McCort - Executive Assistant Chief, Member Mike Frazier - Assistant Chief, Member Kevin Robinson - Assistant Chief, Member Thomas Lannon - Commander, Member Donald Swanson - Commander, Member Cindy Stotler - Department Budget Supervisor, Member Linda Johnson - Benefits Supervisor, Member Kendra Staniek - Personnel Officer, Member Yvonne Warren - Labor Relations Personnel
Officer II, Member
-111-
Dated: May 22,2002
CITY OF PHOENIX
By:	Frank Fairbanks
City manager
Dated:	June 5,2002
ATTEST:	Vicky Miel
City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM: Roderick G. McDougall
City Attorney
ATTACHMENT A POLICE OFFICERS UNIT
Sworn police officers, below the rank of Sergeant, including assignments, but excluding all other classes and positions, including Law Specialist, Sergeants, Lieutenants, Captains, Majors, Assistant Police Chiefs, Police Chief, and all non-sworn Police Department employees.
-112-
ATTACHMENT B WAGES
EFFECTIVE August 16, 2002
STEP HOURLY BI-WEEKLY ANNUAL
1	$16.97	$1,358.00	$35,298.00
2	17.86	1,429.00	37,149.00
3	18.90	1,512.00	39,312.00
4	19.99	1,599.00	41,579.00
5	21.16	1,693.00	44,013.00
6	22.38	1,790.00	46,550.00
7	23.67	1,894.00	49,234.00
8	25.55	2,044.00	53,144.00
9	26.57	2,126.00	55,265.60
10	27.57	2,206.00	57,345.60
11	28.60	2,288.00	59,488.00
12	29.67	2,374.00	61,713.60
13	30.77	2,462.00	64,001.60
* Only unit members assigned to the Air Support Un and who are qualified for one of the four position described in Article 7 Sections, 3,4,5, and 6 are eli gible to receive pay at this step.
-113-
i(L 'i i!i.
ATTACHMENT C
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2003
The increase in 2002-2003 total compensation will equal 75% of fiscal year 2002-2003 general fund revenue growth, however this TOTAL COMPENSATION will be no less than 2% or greater than 5%. The increase in total compensation will be implemented in two phases:
PHASE 1: Total compensation increase in Phase! will total 2% (Regardless of general fund rev enue growth).
First, the health and dental insurance cost increase will be converted to a total compensation percent age, assuming the continuation of already agreed to costsharing and will be calculated in the way it has been historically. This will include an increase in the orthodontia benefit to $4,000.00.
Second, carryover cost from the first year of the contract equal to .27 percent will be costed.
Third, any excess from the Phase 1 guaranteed
-114-
2% will be applied to the second Phase across the board wage increase.
PHASE 2: Total compensation increase will equal 75% of general fund revenue growth, less the 2% total compensation increase implemented in Phase 1, not including section three of Phase 1, to a maximum of 5%. Any additional compensation to be effective October 27, 2003.
ATTACHMENT D HEALTH INSURANCE RATES
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1,2002
TOTAL	CITY	EMPLOYEE
PLAN COST	COST	PAYS
Employee Only	$266.59	$213.29	*$53.30
Employee & Family $768.31	$614.65	*$153.66
* Employee contributions are made twice monthly.
-115-
ATTACHMENT E DENTAL INSURANCE RATES
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1,2002
	TOTAL	CITY	EMPLOYEE
PLAN	COST	COST	PAYS
Employee Only	$38.43	$38.43	$0
Employee & Family	$106.36	$79.78	“$26.58
“Employee dental contributions will continue to be deducted in full from the first paycheck of each month.

ATTACHMENT F DRUG TESTING
The Phoenix Police Department’s Operations Order 3.21, “Controlled Substance Screening" policy, is added to this Memorandum as Attachment “F.”
r---------------------——
ATTACHMENT G RETIREE HEALTH CONTRIBUTION
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1,2002
City of Phoenix
Less than 5 years of service	$117.00
5 to 14 years of service	$135.00
15 to 24 years of service	$168.00
25 or more years of service	$202.00
Public Safety Personnel Retirement System
Retiree Only	$150.00
Retiree & Family	$260.00
-117-
—_—----------------
GARRITY STATEMENT
PLEA Constitutional Protection Statement Speak Or Write The Below Verbatim Prior To Your Statement
"On (date)at (time)
■ (location)________________________________________________
I was ordered to submit this report/statement by (name/rank)__________________________________________
lij ?	I submit this report/statement at his/her order as a
I;:	condition of employment. In view of possible job
forfeiture, I have no alternative butto abide by this order." j "With regard to any questions I'm not directed to answer, I reserve my right to remain silent under the
J Filth and Fourteenth Amendments to the U.S. Constl-,if tution and other rights prescirbed by law. I rely :	specifically upon the protection afforded me under the
i f doctrl nes set forth i n Garrity v. New Jersey, 385 U .S.
493 (1967), and Spevack v. Klein, 385 U.S. 511 .••I	(1967), should this statement be used for any other
J purpose of whatsoever kind or description."
-118-
1925	» 	 Haze Burch	
1952 1970	Walter H. Stewart Albert R. Bluhm-	
1970	Dale C. Stone	
1971	Quincy “Clay” Haywood	
1973 1975 1976 1982 ' 1982 1984 1984	Michael D. Hemschmeyer Qilbert R. Chavez Arthur E, DeIQaudio Ignacio Q. Conchas John R. Davis Kenneth E. Campbell Kevin W. Forsythe	In Respectful
1984 1984	Errol C. Hawkins Robert L. Poltnanteer	Memory Of
1984	John A. Robertson	Our Fellow
1986 1988	Robert T. Fike Kenneth L. Collings	Officers Who
1990	Patrick O. Briggs	Have Fallen
• 1990 1990	John W. Domblisky Danny L. Tunney	In The Line
1991 1997	Leonard L. Kolodziej David “Marty” Kieffer	Of Dutv...
1997	Tim D. Landers	Let Us Never
1997 1999	Scott F. Smith Marc T. Akinson	Forget Them.
1999 2002	Qoelet Beuf Wayne Scott	
-119-