Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Los Angeles, City of and Operating, Maintenance and Service Unit, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), AFL-CIO, Local 18 (2002) (MOA)
K#: 811846
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.comell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
MEMORANDUM
OF
UNDERSTANDING
Between
THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES, WATER AND POWER
and
LOCAL 18 OF THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Operating, Maintenance and Service Unit
October 1, 2002
through
September 30, 2005
2ND EDITION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
TITLE
PAGE
	1	DEPARTMENT - UNION RELATIONSHIP	1
	2	RECOGNITION	2
*	3	LANGUAGE	2
	4	NON-DISCRIMINATION	3
	5	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	3
	6	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	10
	7	UNION RIGHTS	10
	8	UNION ACTIVTIY	11
	8.1	Access of Union Staff Representatives	11
	8.2	Shop Stewards	_	12
	8.3	Leaves of Absence	13
8.4	Paid Time Off for Negotiating Committee Members	14
8.5	Dues Deduction	14
8.6	Agency Shop	15
8.7	Bulletin Boards	20
9	OVERTIME	21
9.1	Definition of Overtime	21
9.2	Scheduled Overtime Cancellation	27
9.3	Call-Out	27
9.4	Restrictions on Overtime	28
9.5	Disturbance Calls	30
10	ABSENCE FROM DUTY	30
11	REST PERIODS	35
12	LUNCH PERIODS	35
13	HOURS OF WORK AND WORK SCHEDULES	36
14	REPORTING LOCATIONS AND TRAVEL TIME	42
ARTICLE
TITLE
PAGE
15	HOLIDAYS AND VACATIONS	47
16	INCLEMENT WEATHER	'	51
17	PAY DIFFERENTIALS	52
18	EXPENSES	53
19	WORK CLOTHING AND TOOLS	63
20	SPECIAL WORKING CONDITION RULES FOR CAMPS	64
21	PERSONNEL FILE	65
22	EMPLOYEE LIST	66
23	MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING CONDITIONS	66
24	JOINT SAFETY COMMITTEE	67
25	SAVINGS CLAUSE	67
26	TERM	68
27	OBLIGATION TO SUPPORT	69
28	HEALTH AND DENTAL PLANS	69
29	SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS	71
30	SALARIES	74
31	SCOPE OF IMPLEMENTATION	74
32	MAINTENANCE AND RATE DIFFERENTIALS	75
33	TEMPORARY REASSIGNMENT	75
34	LICENSE FEES	77
35	JOB SECURITY	77
36	JOINT LABOR/MANAGEMENT RESOLUTION BOARD	78
37	PETERSON FORMULA	80
38	SPECIAL TOOL PAYMENT	80
39	EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN	81
40	EMPLOYEE RELEASE TIME	83
41	JOINT SAFETY INSTITUTE	85
42	JOINT TRAINING INSTITUTE	85
-ii-
ARTICLE
TITLE
PAGE
APPENDIX A-l - SALARIES (Effective	October 1, 2002)	87
APPENDIX A-2 - SALARIES (Effective	October 1, 2003)	88
APPENDIX A-3 - SALARIES (Effective	October 1, 2004)	89
APPENDIX B	-	CONTRACTING OUT	9S
APPENDIX C	-	PARKING FEES AND SUBSIDIES	97
APPENDIX D	-	FOCUSED SEPARATION	PROGRAM	99
APPENDIX E	-	ZONE PAY ADDENDUM	101
APPENDIX F - TRAVEL PAYMENT FOR THE CLASSES OF EQUIPMENT OPERATOR, POWER SHOVEL OPERATOR, AND HEAVY DUTY TRUCK OPERATOR	102
APPENDIX G - LONGEVITY PREMIUM FOR CERTAIN JOURNEY CRAFT CLASSIFICATIONS	103
APPENDIX H - COMMERICIAL LICENSE FOR HEAVY DUTY EQUIPMENT MECHANICS (CLASS CODE 3743) AND EQUIPMENT MECHANICS
(CLASS CODE 3711)	104
APPENDIX I - ELECTRICAL CRAFT HELPER COMPENSATION FOR TRAINING INSTRUCTORS	105
EXHIBIT A - SHOP STEWARDS	106
INDEX	110
-iii-
ARTICLE 1 DEPARTMENT - UNION RELATIONSHIP
A.	Continuity of Service to the Public and Mutual Pledge of Accord
The Department of Water and Power is engaged in public services requiring continuous operations that are necessary to maintain the health and safety of the Department's customers. The obligation to maintain these public services is imposed both upon the Department and the Union during the term of this MOU and the certification of the Union as the exclusive representative of the employees in this representation unit.
To continue the viability of the Department as the provider of choice for energy, water, and related services, the parties mutually agree to work through a joint Labor/Management process. The goal of this process is to ensure Department competitiveness and maintain employment security.
Inherent in the relationship between the Department and its employees is the obligation of the Department to deal justly and fairly with its employees and of the employees to cooperate with their fellow employees and the Department in the performance of their public service obligation.
It is the purpose of this Memorandum to promote and ensure harmonious relations, cooperation and understanding between the Department and the employees represented by the Union and to establish and maintain proper standards of wages, hours and other terms and conditions of employment.
B.	No Strike - No Lockout
In consideration of the mutual desire of the parties to promote and ensure harmonious relations and in consideration of the Mutual Pledge of Accord, the Department agrees that there shall be no lockout or the equivalent of members of the Union, and the Union and its members agree that there shall be no strike or other concerted action resulting in the withholding of service by the members during the term of this MOU. Should such a strike or action by Union members occur, the Union shall immediately instruct its members to return to work. If they do not report to work immediately upon instructions of the Union, they shall be deemed to have forfeited their jobs without recourse of any kind against the Department or the Union. The curtailing of operations by the Department in whole or part for operational or economic reasons shall not be construed as a lockout.
1
The use of plural nouns shall be understood to include the singular and vice versa, where appropriate.
ARTICLE 4 NON-DISCRIMINATION
The parties mutually recognize and agree to protect those employee rights granted in the Employee Relations Ordinance of the City of Los Angeles and applicable State and Federal laws, including the rights of all employees covered herein to join and participate in the activities of the Union.
The parties mutually recognize and agree that the provisions of this MOU shall be applied equally to all employees in the Unit without discrimination because of disability, race, color, sex, age, religious creed, union activity, national origin, ancestry, political belief or sexual orientation.
ARTICLE 5 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Definition
A grievance is defined as any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of this written MOU and/or Departmental rules and regulations governing personnel practices or working conditions applicable to employees covered by this MOU. An impasse in meeting and conferring upon the terms of a proposed MOU is not a grievance.
General Provisions
a. Nothing in this grievance procedure shall be construed to apply to matters for which an administrative remedy is provided before the Civil Service Commission. Where a matter within the scope of this grievance procedure is alleged to be both a grievance and an unfair labor practice under the jurisdiction of the Employee Relations Board, an employee may elect to pursue the matter under either the grievance procedure herein provided, or by action before the Employee Relations Board. The employee's election of either procedure shall constitute a binding election of the remedy chosen and a waiver of the alternative remedy.
3
g.	Employees who file a grievance and elect representation by the Union shall be permitted to be present and testify at any step of the grievance procedure if their attendance is requested by either the Union or Management.
h.	Expedited arbitration and/or a bench decision may be used by mutual agreement.
Union Procedure
Preamble
The purpose of this Procedure is to solve problems fairly and as expeditiously as possible at the lowest possible level. This Procedure is a problem solving process. At each step, a good faith effort will be made resolve the issue.
I.	Informal Step
•	The grievant and/or the Union will meet informally with the appropriate supervisor/manager to resolve all issues within their level of authority.
•	The grievant and/or the Union will notify the appropriate supervisor/manager within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date of the grievable incident or within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date the grievant and/or the Union should have reasonably been aware of the incident.
•	The grievance shall be considered waived if not presented within the fourteen (14) day time limit.
•	It is the intent of the parties that responses be given to the grievant and/or the Union as soon as possible, but, due to special circumstances or length of investigations, supervisor/managers will have up to fourteen (14) calendar days to respond.	.
•	If the grievance is not resolved at the informal step, a formal intent to file a grievance may be filed within fourteen (14) calendar days of the response.
5
IV.	Review - Department Level
•	The IBEW-Local 18 Business Manager and the DWP General Manager will meet on a monthly basis to review and resolve cases referred to them from the Business Unit level.
•	There will be a written record of their decision.
V.	Arbitration
•	If the issue is not resolved at the Department level, the Union may file to arbitration within twenty-one (21) calendar days from the date of the written decision at the Department level.
•	The grievance shall be considered waived if the Union does not file within the twenty-one (21) day time limit.
If such written notice is filed, the parties shall meet for the purpose of selecting an arbitrator from a list of seven (7) arbitrators furnished by the Employee Relations Board, within seven (7) calendar days following receipt of said list Arbitration of a grievance hereunder shall be limited to the issues raised in the formal grievance as originally filed by the Union to the extent that said grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with applicable rules and procedures adopted .or specified by the Employee Relations Board, unless the parties hereto agree to other rules or procedures for the conduct of such arbitration. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the parties involved, it being understood that all other expenses including, but not limited to, fees for witnesses, copies of transcripts, and similar costs incurred by the parties during such arbitration, will be the responsibility of the individual incurring same. The determination of an arbitrator resulting from any arbitration of a grievance hereunder shall not add to, subtract from, or otherwise modify the terms and conditions of this MOU and shall be binding on the parties.
Individual Procedure
The Grievance Procedure for employees covered by this MOU who are not represented by the Union in the filing of their grievance shall be as follows:
7
If such written notice is served, the person designated by Management to review the grievance at Step 2 shall meet with the grievant within twenty-one (21) calendar days of the date of service. A written decision shall be rendered to the grievant within twenty-eight (28) calendar days of the date of service. Failure of Management to respond within such time limit shall entitle the grievant to process the grievance to the third level of review, within the time limits prescribed in Step 3.
Step 3 - General Manager's Review (Third Level of Review)
If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, then the grievant may file an appeal with the Labor Relations Office on the form provided by the Department within fourteen (14) calendar days following receipt of the grievance response or expiration of time limits if no response is received at Step 2. Upon request, the time limits will be automatically extended to twenty-one (21) calendar days. Failure of the grievant to serve such written notice or make such request shall constitute a waiver of the grievance.
If such notice is served, the grievance shall be heard by the General Manager or a designated representative within twenty-one (21) calendar days from the date of such notice. Upon request, the time limits will automatically be extended to thirty-five (35) calendar days. The General Manager or the designated representative will afford the party(s) an opportunity to present oral and/or written arguments on the merits of the grievance.
The General Manager or the designated representative shall render to the grievant, a written decision within twenty-one (21) calendar days from the date said arguments were submitted. Upon request, the time limits will automatically be extended to thirty-five (35) calendar days.
Step 4 - Board of Water and Power Commissioners' Review
In the event a grievant is not satisfied with the written decision of the General Manager or the designated representative, then said grievant may seek review by the Board of Water and Power Commissioners. The grievant must serve upon the Labor Relations Office a written notice of appeal on the form provided by the Department within seven (7) calendar days following receipt of the grievance decision in Step 3. Failure of the grievant to file such appeal shall constitute a waiver of the grievance.
9
The Union shall be notified and shall be permitted to participate in meetings between the Department and any employee or group of employees when changes in the terms and conditions of this MOU are being considered.
In the event an employee elects self-representation in a grievance, the Union shall be notified of the grievance and shall be privy to written material submitted as a part of the grievance. The Union shall be permitted to be present at all meetings between the Department and the grievant(s) to be sure that the terms and conditions of this MOU are'complied with.
ARTICLE 8 UNION ACTIVITY
8.1	- Access of Union Staff Representatives
Full-time Union Staff representatives shall have access to work locations during working hours for the purpose of assisting employees covered under this MOU.
Such access shall be authorized for the purpose of consulting with Union shop stewards, investigating grievances or complaints, observing working conditions, and posting bulletins. Said representative shall receive access authorization from the designated Management representative at the location involved. If working conditions make it impractical to permit access, the designated Management representative shall inform the Union representative(s) when that access can be authorized.
The Union shall provide the Labor Relations Office of the Department with a list of authorized staff representatives, which list shall be kept current by the Union.
The Labor Relations Office shall provide the Union with a list of designated Management representatives' telephone numbers.
The Union may use Department facilities on prior approval, subject to the provisions of this Article, for the purpose of holding meetings to the extent that such facilities are available, and to the extent that such use of the facility will not interfere with normal Departmental operations. Participating employees will attend said meetings on their own time.
11
8.2	(4)
The shop steward shall be permitted to be present at any meeting in which any disciplinary action is to be taken, unless the employee requests that the shop steward not be present. If a shop steward7s presence is requested by the employee, the meeting will not be conducted until the shop steward is present;	■
8.2	(5)
In speaking to employees on the job, the shop steward, on entering a work location, shall inform the supervisor of the steward7s desire to talk to an employee or group of employees concerning a specified complaint or grievance. Permission to leave the job will be granted promptly to the employee(s) involved unless such absence would cause an undue interruption of work. When permission is requested in order to process a grievance, denial of permission to speak to employees, or perform any of the other duties of the shop steward shall automatically constitute an extension of the limits of the Grievance Procedure, equal to the amount of the delay. If the employee(s) cannot be made available, the shop steward shall be immediately informed when the employee(s) will be made available.
8.3	- Leaves of Absence
It is recognized that the granting of leaves of absence are subject to Civil Service Rules and policies. It is therefore agreed that to the extent possible, the Department shall grant and recommend for Civil Service approval, leaves of absence for no more than five (5) employees in this Unit. It is understood that these employees should be hired by the recognized employee organization certified to represent the employees in this Unit on a full-time basis. Such leaves of absence may be for periods of up to one year, but in no event shall the Department recommend for any one employee an accumulation of more than three (3) years continuous leaves of absence. In order to be eligible, an employee must have completed three (3) years of continuous service with the Department.
Employees, upon returning from such a leave of absence, shall be entitled to return to their former classification and salary range in accordance with Civil Service Rules and policies.
13
Employees in this Unit who occupy positions which are designated either supervisory or confidential may rescind their dues deduction authorization agreements at any time after such designation occurs.
The Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Department and the City against all claims, including costs of suits and reasonable attorneys' fees and/or other forms of liability arising from the implementation of the provisions of this Section (8.5).
8.6 - Agency Shop
The following Agency Shop provisions shall apply to all permanent employees of this Unit.
8.6(A) - Dues/Fees
8.6(A)(1)(a)
Permanent employees* in this Unit (who are not on leave of absence) shall, as a condition of continued employment, become members of the certified representative of this Unit, or pay the Union a service fee in an amount not to exceed periodic dues and general assessments of the Union for the term of this MOU, or a period of three (3) years from the operative date of this Article, whichever comes first. Such amounts shall be determined by the Union and implemented by the Department in the first payroll period which starts 30 days after written notice of the new amount is received by the Department.
(*Permanent employees are defined as those who have completed six continuous months of City service from their original date of appointment and who are members of the Department of Water and Power Employees' Retirement, Disability and Death Benefit Insurance Plan.)
8.6(A)(1)(b)
Notwithstanding any provisions of Article 2, Section 4.203 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code to the contrary, during the term of this MOU, payroll deductions requested by employees in this
15
8.6(B)(1}(b)
Supervisory employees shall be defined as follows: "Supervisory employee" means any individual, regardless of the job description or title, having authority, in the interest of the employer, to hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign, reward, or discipline other employees, or responsibility to direct them, or to adjust their grievances, or effectively to recommend such action, if, in connection with the foregoing, the exercise of such authority is not of a merely routine or clerical nature, but requires the use of independent judgement. Employees whose duties are substantially similar to those of their subordinates shall not be considered to be supervisory employees.
Management shall designate supervisory employees. Said designation or claim shall be reviewed jointly by the City and the Union. Any dispute shall be referred to the Employee Relations Board for resolution,
8.6(B)(2) - Religious Objections
Any employee who is a member of a bona fide religion, body, or sect which has historically held conscientious objections to joining or financially supporting public employee organizations shall not be required to join or financially support the organization. Such employees shall, in lieu of periodic dues or agency shop fees, pay sums equal to said amounts to a non-religious, non-labor charitable fund exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, which has been selected by the employee from a list of such funds designated by the parties hereto in a separate agreement. Such payments shall be made by payroll deduction as a condition of continued exemption from the requirements of financial support to the Union and as a condition of continued employment.
17
8.6(D) - Union Responsibilities
8.6(D)(1)
The Union shall keep an adequate itemized record of its financial transactions and shall, by March 1 of each year, make available to the City Clerk, the Department and to all Unit employees, a detailed written financial report for the fiscal year ending the preceding December 31 in the form of a balance sheet and an operating statement, certified as to its accuracy by its president and the treasurer or corresponding principal officer, or by a certified public accountant.
8.6(D)(2)
The Union certifies to the Department that it has adopted, implemented and will maintain procedures in accordance with the decision of the United States Supreme Court in Chicago Teachers Union, Local No. 1, AFT, AFL-CIO, et al. v. Hudson, 106 S. Ct. 1066 (1986), and any other applicable legal authority.
8.6(D)(3)
The Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Department for any loss or damage arising from the operation of this Article. It' is also agreed that neither any employee nor the Union shall have any claim against the Department for any deductions made* or not made, as the case may be, unless a claim of error is made in writing to the Department within thirty (30) calendar days after the date such deductions were or should have been made.
8.6	(E) - Rescission
The agency shop provisions herein may be rescinded in accordance with the procedures contained in Rule 12 of the Employee Relations Board adopted January 11, 1982.
19
8.7	(4)
A copy of all material to be posted shall be delivered to the Director of Labor Relations. A specified date for removal shall be affixed to any material posted in accordance with this Article.
ARTICLE 9 OVERTIME
9.1(a) - Definition of Overtime
Overtime is hereby defined as:
9.1(a)(1)
The time worked outside of the normal work schedule of the employee;
9.1(a) (2)
The time worked on holidays or holiday equivalents outside of the normal work schedule of the employee;
9.1(a)(3)
The time worked continuously within the employee's normal workday when eight (8) hours of overtime have been worked continuously immediately preceding the commencement of the normal workday, provided that one (1) hour or less off duty immediately preceding the commencement of the normal workday and time off duty for meal periods as provided in Article 12 and Article 18.2 shall not be considered as interruptions of continuous work; however, such off duty time shall not be reported or considered as time worked unless authorized elsewhere in this MOD; and
9.1(a)(4)
The time worked within that portion of the employee's normal workday when a change of normal shift allows less than eight (8) consecutive hours off duty between normal shifts as provided in Article 13(d). This overtime shall terminate when eight (8) hours have elapsed since the end of the preceding normal workday.
21
9.1(e) - Overtime, Overtime Accumulation, and Overtime Use for Annual Rated Employees
Except as otherwise expressly provided for, employees to whom an annual rate is applicable shall be compensated for authorized overtime in accordance with the following provisions:
9-l(e)(1)
Except as provided in Article 9.1(e)(3) and the first paragraph of Article 9.1(e)(6), below, employees in this Unit shall be paid for each hour of overtime worked on Sundays (or Sunday equivalents) and holidays (or holiday equivalents), for each hour worked continuously after eight (8) hours of overtime have been worked continuously, and for each hour worked continuously after sixteen (16) hours have been worked continuously, at the double-time rate which shall be computed by dividing the appropriate annual rate by 1044; and shall be paid for each hour of all other overtime work at the time and one-half rate which shall be computed by dividing the appropriate annual rate by 1392.
9.1(e) (2)
Double-time shall be the maximum rate applied to any hour of overtime worked.
9.1(e) (3)
Except as provided in the first paragraph of Article 9.1(e) (6) below, continuous-operation, shift and cumulative-hour employees in this Unit who are required to work within the hours of their normal workdays on holidays or holiday equivalents as part of their normal work schedule shall, in addition to the pay provided in Article 15(c) (2) (bb), be paid for each such hour .so worked at the time and one-half rate to a maximum of eight (8) hours, and for each hour worked on such days outside of the hours of their normal workday shall be paid at the double-time rate.
23
Employees in this Unit who, at the time of this Amendment, have accrued in excess of 240 hours shall promptly be paid for all such excess hours following approval of this Amendment.
Unused accumulated overtime credits, whether earned pursuant hereto or previously earned under the Working Rules may, with supervisory approval, be compensated in cash or by time off with pay only as provided in sub-parts (a) through (d) below:
(a)
For personal reasons, in any amount, with the approval of supervision.
(b)
(1)	During the time that employees are absent on account of illness or injury, the employees may be paid the difference between their net salary and the disability benefit to which the employees may be entitled under the Water and Power Employees' Retirement, Disability and Death Benefit Plan, or under Workers' Compensation Laws: and there shall be charged against their overtime credit the number of hours calculated to the nearest onetenth (1/10) of an hour, required to account for the payment of such difference;
(2)	For recuperation or rest;
(3)	For any purpose which the Board may approve upon recommendation of the General Manager in each individual case;
(c)
Immediately prior to retirement, employees may elect to be compensated in paid time off or cash or any combination thereof for all unused accrued overtime hours.
25
When eight (8) consecutive hours off duty shall not have elapsed as provided in Paragraph 9.1(f), and the operating needs of the Department require such employees to return to duty or continue on duty at the start of their regular shift, such regular■shift hours not otherwise defined as overtime as found in Paragraph 9.1(a), such employees shall be paid at a premium rate, equal to the straight-time hourly rate plus an amount equal to one-half the straight-time hourly rate, for such hours of their regular shift which when added together with time off duty immediately prior to the start of their regular shift will equal eight (8) hours. At the conclusion of such eight (8) hour period, the employees will be paid at the straight-time hourly rate for the remainder of their regular shift. Should there be no time off duty immediately prior to the start of their regular shift, the premium rate will continue throughout the eight (8) hour regular shift.
9.2	- Scheduled Overtime Cancellation
When scheduled overtime, other than a continuation of the regular workday, is cancelled less than eight (8) hours prior to the time the scheduled overtime is to start, the employee shall receive a penalty payment equivalent to two (2) hours at the applicable overtime rate.
9.3	- Call Out
9.3(a)
A call out is a communication to an employee who is off duty directing the employee to report for overtime work.
Employees in this Unit who are called out shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay at the double-time rate.
For those employees who are called out and directed to immediately report for overtime work, paid time is to start from the time the call is received. Additional calls received within the two-hour minimum period shall not establish an additional minimum period of double-time.
27
9.4(d)
An overtime log, called "Accumulative Overtime Log" (A.O.T.L.), shall be kept and adhered to as follows:
9.4(d)(1)
The amount of overtime, excluding call outs, worked by the employee each calendar year, shall be entered in the "Accumulative Overtime Log" (A.O.T.L.) by the local supervisor at each station. (For this purpose, "calendar year" coincides with the calendar year as used for reporting employees' withholding to the Internal Revenue Service.)
9.4(d)(2)
This A.O.T.L. shall not show holiday hours. It shall show overtime hours worked, excluding call out, outside of the normal working shift.
9.4(d) (3)
All overtime hours worked except call outs shall be entered in the A.O.T.L. as the number of hours paid.
9.4(d) (4)
The current A.O.T.L. shall be easily available for inspection at all times. Audited copies will be posted monthly on bulletin boards.
9.4(d) (5)
All overtime declined except call outs shall be entered in the A.O.T.L. toward the accumulated overtime total.
9.4(d)(6)
Employees returning from leave of absence, temporary or emergency appointment, disability, or vacation of more than thirty (30) days and any qualified new employee shall receive an overtime total equivalent to the average of all employees on their A.O.T.L.
29
10(a) (3)
For the amount of time required to file for or take examinations given by the Personnel Department of the City of Los Angeles for classes to which positions in the Department of Water and Power are allocated and examinations for certificates or licenses required as prerequisites to take such Civil Service examinations and for the time required incidental to the filing and hearing of protests in connection with all such examinations, provided proper arrangements are made with the immediate supervisor, and provided further that any continuous absence from work for this purpose of more than eight (8) hours, or cumulatively more than eighteen (18) hours in any calendar year, may be allowed only with the approval of the General Manager.
10 (a) (4)
For the amount of time required to make application for, or take examinations for certificates or licenses which the Department requires of employees subsequent to appointment, and to renew all required certificates or licenses, provided proper arrangements are made with the immediate supervisor.
10(a)(5)
For the amount of time required for interviews and examinations in connection with prospective service- in the armed forces of the United States; provided proper arrangements are made with the immediate supervisor.
10(b)(1) - Additional Absence with Pay
In addition to the holidays provided for in Article 15 and the absences with pay hereinabove in this Article 10 provided for, each employee to whom an annual rate is applicable, who shall have completed the period of continuous service which is required for membership in the Water and Power Employees' Retirement, Disability and Death Benefit Plan, may, with the approval of the appropriate supervisor, be allowed to be absent from duty with pay to a cumulative maximum of forty (40) hours, reported through prescribed procedure, in any calendar year under the following circumstances:
-31 -
necessary for such attendance or for such attendance and service. Each such absence shall be with pay less an amount equal to the per diem to which the employee is entitled by law for such attendance or for such attendance and service. The General Manager shall prescribe the procedures for reporting and verifying such attendance, service and per diem.
10(b) (2) (bb)
Employees to whom an annual rate is applicable, who are required to appear for examination to determine their qualifications for jury duty, shall be allowed to be absent from duty with pay for the period of time necessary for such examination provided such examination cannot be taken during non-working hours or on a normal day off.
10(c) - Absences with Pay Applicable to Employees Paid by the Day or Hour
Employees paid on the basis of daily or hourly rates shall be allowed no absences with pay other than the Christmas holiday provided in Article 15 and the absences with pay provided in subsection (a) of this section.
10(d) - Absences Without Pay
Any employee shall be allowed to be absent from duty without pay: 10(d) (1)
During the course of any disability.
10(d)(2)
During the course of any military leave, as provided in Section 17 of the Charter of the City of Los Angeles and the Military and Veterans Code of the State of California.
10(d) (3)
To take advantage of any educational benefits of the State or Federal Government offered as a veteran of the Armed Forces.
-33-
ARTICLE 11 REST PERIODS
Each employee, other than those employees whose lunch period is credited as time worked, shall be granted a minimum of fifteen (15) minutes rest period in each four-hour period, provided, however, that no such rest period shall be taken during the first or last hour of any employee's working day nor in excess of fifteen (15) minutes without the express consent of the designated supervisor. The restriction on the first or last hour shall not apply to field crews when waived by the immediate supervisor. Management reserves the right to suspend the rest period or any portion thereof during an emergency. Any rest period so suspended or not taken at the time permitted shall not be accumulated or carried over from one day to any subsequent day, or compensated for in any form.
The taking of rest periods by continuous-operation or shift employees is declared to be a privilege and not a right.
ARTICLE 12
LUNCH PERIODS
12(a)
A minimum of thirty (30) minutes and a maximum of one hour shall be scheduled each normal workday as a lunch period, which shall commence not earlier than three (3) hours nor later than five (5) hours after the scheduled time for reporting. The lunch period shall not be credited as time worked, provided that continuous-operation and shift employees who are scheduled to perform eight (8) consecutive hours shall be permitted to eat one meal for which a maximum of thirty (30) minutes shall be allowed during working hours without any deduction being made therefor.
12(b)	'
It is recognized that for those employees whose lunch period is not credited as time worked pursuant to Paragraph 12(a) above but who remain on the job site, certain restrictions on the free time activities of such employees may be necessary. Such restrictions would relate to, but not be limited by, considerations for public safety, job safety and the maintenance of a favorable public image for the Department.
35
Employees in positions to which a daily-rate is applicable shall not be deemed to be shift employees for the purposes of any other provisions of the Position Evaluation and Compensation Plan.
13(d) - Normal Workday for Continuous-Operation and Shift Employees
When the Department must provide for an operation, service or other activity on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, or for sixteen (16) consecutive hours or more in a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours, employees assigned to perform such operation, service or other activity during their schedule of normal workdays shall be known as:
(1)	continuous-operation employees, and as
(2)	shift employees if they are scheduled to start their normal shift at or after 2:00 P.M. but before 4:00 A.M.
A normal workday for continuous-operation and shift employees shall consist of eight (8) hours of work, scheduled to be performed within a period of not less than eight (8) consecutive hours nor more than nine (9) consecutive hours, provided that, whenever possible, a minimum of eight (8) consecutive hours shall elapse between the end of one normal workday and the commencement of the next normal workday.
13(e)(1) - Normal Workday for Cumulative-Hour Employees
When the duties assigned to any employee are of such an intermittent nature that they cannot ordinarily be performed during consecutive working hours, such employee for the purposes of these rules, shall be known as a cumulative-hour employee.
A normal workday for cumulative-hour employees shall consist of the performance of all necessary work within the scope of their assigned duties, provided that the cumulative working time required of any such employee shall not normally be more than eight (8) hours per day.
37
13(f) (4)
A work schedule shall not be changed with respect to scheduled days of work unless employees affected are notified at least forty (40) consecutive hours before the time for their reporting for work under the changed schedule or the employee agrees to the change without such notice. Violation of this provision shall invoke a penalty payment equivalent to four (4) hours at the straight-time rate in addition to any pay received for the first eight (8) hours worked of such change.
13(f)(5)
A relief shift employee whose shift is changed and who reports to work and is not required by the Department to work that shift, shall receive a minimum of eight (8) hours pay at the straight-time rate.
13(f)(6)
No work schedule shall be changed unless it is predicated entirely upon the operating needs of the Department, and shall not be for the purpose of avoiding the payment for overtime work.
13(g) - Reporting for Duty
13(g)(1)
. Except in case of disability or unforeseen emergency, employees to whom an annual rate is applicable shall report for duty on each of their scheduled working days unless permission not to report has been previously approved by their immediate supervisor. In case of disability or unforeseen emergency, employees to whom an annual rate is applicable shall make every reasonable effort to notify their immediate supervisor as early as possible of their inability to report for duty.
39
13(i) (2)
With the ending of Daylight Saving Time, all clocks, at 2:00 A.M. shall be set back one hour to 1:00 A.M. Employees at work on a regularly scheduled basis when the clock is changed, shall work an actual nine-hour shift. Their time shall be reported as a normal eight-hour shift plus one hour of overtime and the overtime premium shall be as provided for in Article 9. Shift differentials, if applicable, shall be as provided for in Article 17.
13 (i) (3)
Beginning and ending clock times of regularly assigned work schedules shall not be affected by clock change.
13(i) (4)
Time for employees working prior to or beyond their regularly assigned work schedule shall be reported as overtime as provided for in Article 9.
13 (i)(5)
Actual hours of overtime worked shall be reported for employees who are working overtime when the clock is changed or immediately thereafter and the overtime premium shall be as provided for in Article 9.
13 (j) - Shift Swaps
Management shall give favorable considerations to temporary shift swaps mutually agreed on by employees where such swap will not result in overtime and does not affect the operating efficiency of the facility or quality of service to the public.
13(k) - Normal Shift and Calendar Day
A normal shift shall be considered, for timekeeping and pay purposes, to fall within the day in which it commences. Except that shifts that begin at 10:00 P.M. or later shall be deemed to fall within the day in which the shift terminates for timekeeping and pay purposes.
41
14(b) - Temporary Headquarters
14 (b) (1)
Temporary headquarters is defined as a building established by the Department for temporary use of not less than two (2) weeks and which is designated as the place at which employees report for work.
14 (b) (2)
Temporary headquarters shall afford shelter, be equipped with lavatory facilities, and be available to convenient and economical public transportation, provided that such transportation need not be available where the Department furnishes free transportation between such temporary headquarters and a designated public transportation point.
14(b) (3)
An employee having a permanent reporting location, shall not be assigned to report for work at a temporary headquarters if such headquarters is more than twelve (12) airline miles from such permanent location or if such assignment is for less than two (2) weeks.
14(c) - Travel Time
The following provisions shall be applied to employees to whom an annual rate is applicable.
14 (c) (1)
Where the work of employees who have been assigned a permanent reporting location require travel to and between other work locations and/or return to their permanent reporting location, the time consumed by the employees in such travel shall be counted as time worked.
43
time worked. The Department may also elect to furnish housing facilities in permanent structures or in mobile units, in which event any time consumed in necessary travel between the location of such housing facilities and the job sites shall be counted as time worked. The provisions with respect to temporary headquarters as set out in Paragraph 14(c) (4) shall not be applicable to arrangements established by the Department pursuant to this paragraph.
14(c)(6)
When employees are assigned to work temporarily, or from time to time at such a distance from their permanent reporting location that it prevents their daily return thereto, the time required for the employees to travel by the most economical and appropriate method of transportation from their permanent reporting location to the temporary work location or locations and return therefrom shall be counted as time worked.
If the temporary work location or locations are not on the Department's system, compensation for travel time when required outside the employee's normal work schedule shall be at straight time,, or where Article 9 does not provide for compensation in money for overtime worked, by allowing time off as provided for in that Article.
14(c)(7)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article, when employees in the Central Services Organization, Central Repair and Fabrication Services Business Unit, or employees occupying positions identified in Appendix E are assigned to report directly to a Department facility and work temporarily at more than a 12-mile distance from their permanent	■
reporting location, the employees will be compensated as follows:
Free Zone	0 to 12 miles from permanent reporting location	$0/work day
Zone 1	12.1 to 35.0 miles from permanent reporting location	$30/work day
Zone 2	35.1 to 55 miles from permanent reporting location	$41/work day
45
14(h) - Area Operators
Area Operators at their request will be assigned to a permanent reporting location and will be provided Department transportation as necessary during working hours. In conjunction with this change in past practice, Management may, with proper notice, cancel personal automobile authority.
ARTICLE 15
HOLIDAYS AND VACATIONS
15 - Holidays
15(a)
All days herein declared to be holidays shall be observed by closing, except in cases of emergency, all functions of Department business which are not essential to provide continuous-operation service to customers. Only shift, cumulative-hour and continuous-operation employees may be required to work on such holidays as part of their schedule of normal workdays.
15(b)	'
The following days, together with such additional days as are designated by special action of the Board are hereby declared to be holidays:
1.	New Year's Day	January 1st
2.	Martin Luther King's Birthday	3rd Monday in January
3.	Presidents' Day	3rd Monday in February
4.	Memorial Day	last Monday in May
5.	Independence Day	July 4th
6.	Labor Day	1st Monday in September
7.	Columbus Day	2nd Monday in October
8.	Veterans Day	November 11th
9.	Thanksgiving Day	4th Thursday in November
10.	Day after Thanksgiving Day	day after Thanksgiving Day
11.	Christmas Day	December 25th
12.	Two unspecified holidays may be observed on any scheduled workday within the calendar year, provided that requests for said holidays are approved by the employee's supervisor, subject to the operating needs of the Department. Management Bulletin No. 620 dated August 12, 1974, as amended, is automatically incorporated herein and made a part of this MOU.	
47
15(c)(2)
All annual rate continuous-operation, shift and cumulative-hour employees scheduled to work holidays as normal workdays shall be compensated for each holiday as provided below:
15(c) (2) (aa)
When a holiday falls on a normal workday of such employees, the calendar holiday is, for timekeeping and pay purposes, the holiday for said employees. When a holiday falls on one of their normal days off, their next normal workday following the calendar holiday is, for timekeeping and pay purposes, the holiday equivalent for said employees. If both a holiday and holiday equivalent fall on the same day, then, for timekeeping and pay purposes, the holiday equivalent for said employee shall be their next normal workday.
15(c) (2) (bb)
When such employees are required to work on a holiday or holiday equivalent as part of their schedule of normal workdays, the employees shall not be entitled to a normal workday off for such holiday, but instead shall be paid at their scheduled salary for such day and, in addition, shall be paid for time worked as provided in Article 9.1(e)(3).
15(c)(2)(cc)
When such employees are not required to work on a holiday or holiday equivalent, the employees shall be scheduled the day off with pay.
49
15.1(b)
On October 1, 1996, each member of the Unit who has completed 1 to 4 years of service shall be credited with 1 additional vacation day; each member of the Unit who has completed 5 to 24 years of service shall be credited with 2 additional vacation days; each member of the Unit who has completed 25 to 29 years of service shall be credited with 3 additional vacation days; and each member of the Unit who has completed 30 or more years of service shall be credited with 2 additional vacation days.
15.1(c)
Additionally, Management and the Union agree that, after the addition of vacation days as provided in Article 15.1(b), the following chart accurately reflects the vacation entitlement and accrual rates to be effective October 1, 1996:
Years of Service Completed	Total Number of Vacation Days Effective 10/1/96	Monthly Accrual Rate in Hours/Minutes Effective 10/1/96
1 to 4	11	7.20
5 to 12	17	11.20
13	18	11.20
14	19	11.20
15	20	11.20	.
16	21	11.20
17	22	14.40
18	23	14.40
19 to 24	24	16.00
	25+		25	16.40
ARTICLE 16
INCLEMENT WEATHER
Annual rated employees reporting for work on normal scheduled working days shall not suffer any loss of regular pay because of weather conditions when Management directs that no field work be undertaken. Inclement weather may include any weather condition
51
Employees to whom an annual rate is applicable, except cumulative-hour employees, who are regularly scheduled to start their normal shift at or after 9:00 P.M. but before 4:00 A.M. and who perform overtime work in continuation of their normal shift but who are not working all or part of the normal shift of another employee shall continue to receive a pay differential of 7% of the applicable rate for each hour of such overtime worked.
ARTICLE 18 EXPENSES
18.1	- Mileage Allowances
18.1	(a)
When employees use their personal automobile to conduct Department business as authorized by the General Manager, such employees shall be paid compensation for such use during each calendar month in accordance with the following schedule:
1.	All miles driven - $.36 per mile;
2.	Necessary parking fees or charges, exclusive of the DWP facilities.
18.1(b)
When employees are required to have their personal automobile available for use to conduct Department business, such employees shall be paid compensation for such availability or use during each calendar month as authorized by the General Manager in accordance with the following schedule:
1.	For each day during which the automobile is required to be available and is available but not actually driven on Department business - $7.01;
2.	For each day driven on Department business - $7.01;
3.	All miles driven - $.36 per mile;
4.	Necessary parking fees or charges exclusive of DWP facilities; and
53
18.2(b)
Department may, in lieu of any overtime meal allowance, provide meals for employees.
18.2(c)
Meal periods shall be fixed at two (2) hours after the beginning of any overtime period which commences outside the hours of the employee's normal workday and at the end of each 5-hour interval thereafter. Except that while working scheduled overtime on an employee’s Saturday, Sunday or holiday or other normal day off, overtime meal periods shall be fixed at 4 hours after the beginning of any overtime period and at the end of each 5-hour interval thereafter. However, during periods of emergencies, adjustments to this schedule may be made by the immediate supervisor.
18.2(d)
The time allowed to eat an overtime meal shall be thirty (30) minutes or less.
18.2(e)
Time allowed to eat an overtime meal shall be reported as time worked.
18.2(f)
Employees who are not provided an opportunity to eat an overtime meal shall receive a penalty payment equal to thirty (30) minutes at the applicable overtime rate for each meal period missed. Except that this provision shall not apply to continuous-operation employees who eat overtime meals while continuing to perform their normal duties.
18.2(g)
Employees who are called out and work for a minimum 2-hour call out only shall be paid one overtime meal allowance but not for the time to eat such meal.
55
18.3(a)
When employees are given an assignment or accept a limited or emergency appointment and are required to work temporarily, or from time to time, at such a distance from their home or regular work location that it prevents their daily return thereto, such expense shall be borne by the Department commencing with the time the employees leave home or their regular work location and ending when the employees return to their home or regular work location, as the case may be.
18.3(b)
It is the intent of the Department that whenever possible, employees on temporary assignments out-of-town reside in Department-provided lodging or in lodging designated by the Department.
Should an employee be unable through no fault of the Department to stay in Department-provided lodging, or designated lodging, the Department may reimburse the employee for lodging in an amount not to exceed the cost of Department-provided or designated lodging only when the employee provides a proper paid receipt.
18.3(c)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this MOU in conflict herewith, time spent in travel between Department-provided or designated lodging and a temporary reporting location shall be counted as time worked.
18.3(d)
When employees are transferred permanently to work at such a distance from their home that it prevents their daily return thereto, (unless such transfer is between points located south of an east-west line drawn through the southernmost boundary of the town of Newhall and west of the north-south line drawn through the easternmost boundary of the City of Ontario); the Department shall bear such expense en route and
57
18.4(a) (1)
When such change is between points located south of an east-west line drawn through the southernmost boundary of the town of Newhall, and west of a north-south line drawn through the easternmost boundary of the City of Ontario.
18.4 (a) (2}
When such change is made at the request and for the convenience of employees; provided that when such change is the immediate result of employees' appointment to a position from a Civil Service register of eligibles or their transfer to a vacant position as a consequence of their bidding therefor under an established bidding procedure, it shall be deemed not to be at their request or for their convenience.
18.4(b)
When the services of employees are terminated, or the employees retire from an involuntary assignment and at the time of termination or retirement the employees are reporting at a permanent location to which the employees were transferred from another permanent reporting or working location which transfer necessitated their change of residence, the Department shall bear all expenses of moving their household and personal effects from the location at which their services were terminated to any location on its system, except that it shall not bear any of such expense when any one of the following conditions is present:
18.4(b)(1)
When such change is between points located south of an east-west line drawn through the southernmost boundary of the town of Newhall, and west of a north-south line drawn through the easternmost boundary of the City of Ontario.
18.4(b)(2)
When employees are discharged for cause after at least six months of continuous service at their location immediately preceding the time of such discharge.
59
18.7(b) - Transportation on Ordered Trips
Employees who are directed or ordered to travel in connection with Department business shall be provided transportation as follows:
18.7(b) (1)
Transportation on a public carrier, including sleeping accommodations, where available, for overnight travel.
18.7(b) (2)
■Transportation in a Department-owned passenger vehicle when the use of such transportation is authorized by the General Manager.
18.7(b) (3)
Transportation by taxi, streetcar, bus, and other local facilities.
18.7(b)(4)
At the request of employees and when authorized in advance by the General Manager, such employees may use their personal car for part or all of an official trip in lieu of the transportation provided in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, and the Department shall pay such employee therefor the amount it would be required to pay if transportation were provided under paragraph (1) of this subsection using the fastest and most direct travel accommodations available, except that where such trip is to a point within a radius of 300 miles of the Department’s John Ferraro Building at 111 North Hope Street, Los Angeles, it shall pay such employees therefor at the rate of 36 cents per mile.
18.7 (b) (5)
If the nature of the work on an official trip will require the use of a car to best serve the Department's interest, arrangements may be made with such employees
-61 -
18.7(C)(7}
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Article 18.7(c), where employees use their personal car pursuant to
Article 18.7(b)(4) for part or all of an official trip to a point not on the Department's system and not within a radius of 300 miles of the Department's John Ferraro Building at 111 North Hope Street, Los Angeles, the employees shall be reimbursed for such expenses only to the extent that they would have been incurred had the employees used the fastest and most direct travel accommodations available.
18.7(d) - Allowances on Authorized Trips	■
Employees who are authorized to travel in connection with Department business but who are not directed or ordered to do so shall not be entitled to transportation or to other allowances on account of such travel, except as may be determined and approved in advance by the General Manager.
18.7(e) - Use of Personal Cars in Department Work
Nothing contained herein shall in any way limit, or conflict with, the practice of compensating employees for the authorized use of their personal cars in the performance of Department work.
ARTICLE 19 WORK CLOTHING AND TOOLS
19(a) - Uniforms
The Department shall furnish uniforms which the General Manager requires employees to wear and it shall arrange and pay for all normal cleaning, repairing and replacement required by the use of such uniforms while performing work for the benefit of the Department.
19(b) - Protective Clothing, Equipment, and Safety Glasses
The Department shall furnish protective clothing and equipment in all cases where they are required bylaw or where the Department determines that such protective clothing and equipment are essential to the adequate protection or the safety or the health of employees.
63
ARTICLE 21 PERSONNEL FILE
Employees shall be entitled to review the contents of their personnel files at reasonable intervals. Such review shall be permitted, upon request, only during hours when their personnel office is regularly open for business and within three (3) days of their request, except when an employee is assigned to a remote area. No materials which may be the basis for future disciplinary actions shall be placed in employees' personnel files until the employees have had an opportunity to discuss with their supervisor such material. Employees shall be supplied with a copy of said material. In the event employees object to the inclusion of such materials in their files, they may file a grievance with regard to the placement of such material in their personnel files. Any such material shall not automatically disqualify an employee's transfer, reassignment or promotion.
Any material which could be the basis for disciplinary action, excluding Notices to Correct Deficiencies (NTCDs) and suspensions, shall be assigned an expiration date not more than two (2) years subsequent to the effective date of such material. Nothing in this Article shall prevent the removal of such material from an employee's personnel files prior to the expiration date upon approval of Management.
The Department shall evaluate each Notice to Correct Deficiencies (NTCD) before including it as a supporting document in any succeeding disciplinary action.
Prior to entering an NTCD into the employee's personnel files, each offense cited on such NTCD shall be classified as to the seriousness of the infraction and assigned an expiration date. Such expiration date shall be not more than two (2) years subsequent to the date of the infraction. In order to minimize administrative problems, an NTCD may be removed from the employee's files upon request of the employee, provided that such request must be made subsequent to the expiration date, as set forth on the NTCD. NTCDs in an employee's file past the expiration date shall not be referenced in, nor form the basis for any disciplinary action, provided, that the employee has not been given any other NTCDs or disciplinary action prior to the expiration date. Nothing in this Article shall prevent the removal of an NTCD from an employee's personnel files prior to the expiration date upon the approval of Management.
65
ARTICLE 24
JOINT SAFETY COMMITTEE
The Joint Safety Committee shall be composed of an equal number of representatives of the Department and the Union. This Committee may meet every three months on a regular basis as determined by said Committee. It shall also meet on urgent situations at the request of either the Department or the Union.
It shall be the responsibility of the Joint Safety Committee to review the causes of serious accidents revealed by the investigation of such accidents and to recommend rules for the safety of the employees in the performance of their work. The present safe working rules and practices shall be considered a part of this MOU and changes in the Safety Rules shall be subject to negotiations between the parties and in conformance with applicable City, State or Federal regulations. The Joint Safety Committee shall utilize consultants from the City, State or Federal agencies in the event an interpretation of the City, State or Federal regulations is involved.
It shall be the responsibility of the Department to administer the Safety Program and to make every reasonable effort that Safety Rules are carried out by all employees. It shall be the responsibility of the employees to make every reasonable effort to ensure that they act in a safe manner.
Should a dispute arise over the application or interpretation of a Safety Rule, such dispute shall be resolved by use of the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE 25
SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any term or provision of this MOU is found to be in conflict with any City, State or Federal law, the parties agree to meet promptly, and as often as necessary, to expeditiously renegotiate this term or provision.
All other terms and provisions of this MOU shall remain in full force and effect during the period of such negotiations and thereafter until their normal expiration date.
67
ARTICLE 27
OBLIGATION TO SUPPORT
The parties agree that prior to the implementation of the MOU and during the period of time it is being considered by the Board, neither the employee organization nor the Department, nor any of their authorized representatives, shall appear before said Board, the Mayor, the City Council, or individual members of said Board or Council individually to advocate any addition to or deletion from the terms and conditions of this MOU. However, this Article shall not preclude the parties from appearing before the Board, the Mayor or any other elected official to advocate or urge the adoption and approval of this MOU.
ARTICLE 28
HEALTH AND DENTAL PLANS
28.1	- Health Plan
The Department will contribute on behalf of eligible employees in this Unit, to whom an annual salary rate is applicable, and who are members of the Water and Power Employees' Retirement, Disability and Death Benefit Plan, and on behalf of their eligible dependents, if any, a sum not to exceed $718.96 a month, through June 30, 2004, toward the cost of any one of the following health insurance programs:
a.	DWP Kaiser Medical Plan
b.	DWP Health Plan of Nevada	*
c.	DWP PacifiCare Medical Plan
d.	The plan established by the IBEW-Local 18 Health and Welfare Trust
Said sum will be applied and limited by the employee's election, if any, to coverage under one of the health insurance programs listed in (a), (b), (c), and (d) above. In the event eligible employees elect to cover their eligible dependents as provided for in these programs, the unused portion of said sum will be applied toward such dependent coverage under the same plan.
The parties hereto agree to the following formula for arriving at the Department's maximum contribution, based on the present level of benefits, to these health insurance programs for each eligible employee in this Unit:
69
28.3 - Health and Dental Subsidy
The eligibility criteria for the Department's subsidy toward the cost of employees' health/dental plans effective July 1, 1999:
Full time employees are eligible to receive the full Department subsidy beginning the first of the month following membership in the Department's Retirement Plan (exclusive of membership in the Department's Disability and Death Benefit Plans).
Daily-rated employees (Payroll 70 and 72) who change to annualrated status may enroll in a health and/or dental plan within 31 calendar days of such change. Such employees are eligible for the full Department subsidy beginning the first day of the month following such change. Coverage will begin the first day of the month following receipt of enrollment forms.
Part-time employees who change to full time status may enroll in and/or add dependent(s) to the health and/or dental plan within 31 calendar days of such change. Such employees are eligible for the full Department subsidy beginning the first day of the month following such change. Coverage will begin the first day of the month following receipt of enrollment forms.
The Department will distribute, to employees in classifications represented by Local 18, Union-provided material explaining the eligibility requirements for enrolling in Local 18, IBEW-sponsored health and/or dental plans.
ARTICLE 29 SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS
29.1	- Sick Benefits
All provisions of the Department's Disability Plan and all practices concerning sick days shall be continued with the following exceptions:
(a) Disability benefits for a temporary disability of ten ■	(10) work days or less shall be calculated at the gross
salary base rate and the appropriate Federal and State taxes withheld and paid to the Internal Revenue Service and the State Franchise Tax Board.
71
29.3	- Family Death Benefits
The present monthly level of family death benefits ($416.00 per survivorr $1,170.00 family maximum) shall remain in the Plan as currently provided. A higher amount shall also be available to any member who enrolls for such benefit, provided said member makes a contribution of $2.25 per pay period for as long as the member desires such coverage. Additionally, the benefit shall not be effective until the member has made contributions for thirty-nine (39) continuous payroll periods after enrollment or reenrollment for this coverage.
The increased monthly benefit level for those who enroll shall be $936.00 per survivor and $2,236.00 family maximum.
29.4	- Family/Domestic Partner Sick Leave
1.	Each Department employee shall be permitted to use, in any calendar year, up to forty (40) hours of his or her available annually accrued forty (40) hour sick time bank [provided in accordance with Article 29 of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and Section VD(1)(b)(ii) of the Water and Power Employees' Retirement Plan] to attend to the illness of his or her child, parent, spouse, or domestic partner. Such use shall not extend the maximum period of leave to which an employee is entitled under Section 12945.2 of the Government Code or under the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. Sec. 2606, et seq.). In addition, such use will not initiate temporary disability benefits provided in accordance with Article 29 of the MOU and Section VD(1) of the Water and Power Employees' Retirement Plan.
2.	All conditions and restrictions, such as medical certification, placed upon each Department employee relative to his or her use of sick leave shall also apply to the use of sick leave for the purpose of attending to the illness of his or her child, parent, spouse, or domestic partner in accordance with Section 100-10 of the DWP Administrative Manual.
3.	In order for an employee to apply this benefit to a domestic partner, employee must have on file a confidential affidavit with the DWP Health Plans Administration office.
73
-	The Board has by adoption of an appropriate Resolution notified Local-18 that this Amendment is approved in its entirety by the Department, as evidenced by the General Manager affixing his signature hereto; and,
-	The City Council has taken appropriate action approving and setting the salaries agreed to herein.
ARTICLE 32
MAINTENANCE OF RATE DIFFERENTIALS
The Board of Water and Power Commissioners has, in certain instances, authorized compensation, known as an "H” rate, which is in excess of the position grade for the position occupied by an employee. Employees benefiting from such "H" rates shall henceforth receive that difference in salary between the amount of the "H" rate and the position grade for the position occupied on July 4, 1977. Said difference shall be maintained only during the time such employee occupies or reoccupies the same position.
Additionally, during the term of this MOU, said difference shall be increased by the appropriate percent (%) increases granted the employee's DDR. The implementation dates of this provision shall coincide with the implementation of general salary increases.
ARTICLE 33
TEMPORARY REASSIGNMENT
33.1	- Temporary Assignment to Another Position Within the Same Civil Service Class
Employees who are directed to temporarily perform the duties of a higher paid position in the same Civil Service class, shall be placed on the lowest step rate of the higher level salary range which will result in a salary increase of at least five percent (5%), not to exceed the top step of the higher range, effective the first day those duties are performed. If such temporary reassignment lasts longer than six (6) months, Department management shall meet with the Union to determine what steps need to be taken to permanently fill the position in a
75
Employees assigned under this provision shall neither serve nor complete probation, and seniority will not be accrued in the class so occupied. Notwithstanding Section 4.902(a)(3) of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, the employee shall be returned to the same step in the pay range of the class in which she/he was legally employed prior to the temporary assignment. Step advances consistent with the employee's anniversary date, which shall remain unchanged, shall apply.
This provision does not in any way alter or affect the granting of craft 1-5 Day Special Emergency appointments or craft "lead pay".
ARTICLE 34
LICENSE FEES
Subject to such rules and regulations as the City Controller has established, the Department of Building and Safety shall waive its usual fee or charge for any license or permit employees of this Unit are required to possess to operate equipment in the performance of their duties. Such license or permit shall be limited to cover worked performed for the City.
Any employee in this Unit, who is required by the Department to maintain a valid license, excepting a Class C Drivers License or other license required by a Civil Service bulletin for initial appointment to a classification, shall be reimbursed for the initial cost (fee) for such a license. All fees for renewals of Department required licenses, except a Class C drivers license will be reimbursed by the Department.
ARTICLE 35 JOB SECURITY
No regular annual-rated, Civil Service bargaining unit employee within the classification and major division affected by the contracting out of bargaining unit work will be laid off or placed on a lower level DDR.
77
♦ The Union and Management will work in cooperation to jointly inform the political leadership (i.e., Mayor, Executive Employee Relations Committee, members of City Council) of the process being used to jointly resolve disputes. There will be a joint recommendation to the political leadership when their approval is needed for implementation of a resolution.
(6)	RULES OF THE RESOLUTION BOARD
•	The Board shall set its own ground rules.
•	Mutual Gains Bargaining shall be utilized to resolve issues.
•	All members are to be considered to have the same level of authority and responsibility.
•	The Board may establish subcommittees or utilize existing committees as necessary.
•	The Board may bring in experts on particular subject matters or issues.
•	The Board may recommend remedies for disputes related to issues which have been submitted.
•	The Board will recommend resolutions that are within its scope.
•	The Board shall set time limits for resolutions and their implementation.
•	The Board has the authority to make recommendations which will be submitted simultaneously to the General Manager of Water and Power and the Business Manager of Local 18 for their joint consideration and response.
(7)	COMMITTEES
Joint Labor/Management committees may be established locally upon mutual agreement for the purpose of resolving local issues not addressed by the MOU. They may also be utilized for informal screening and/or researching of issues prior to submission to the Board.
79
No tool payment shall be paid to any employee in the above classifications whose tools are furnished by the Department.
ARTICLE 39 EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLAN
39.1	- Early Retirement Option
39.1	(a)
Water and Power Employees' Retirement Plan (PLAN) members who have reached age 50 and who have at least 30 years of service (50/30) shall be eligible for an unreduced formula retirement, calculated at 2.1% of the member's highest year's salary for each year of retirement service credit.
39.1	(b)
This option will continue until September 30, 2005.
39.2	- Enhancement of Employees' Retirement Plan Pension Formula Rate
39.2(a)
PLAN members who have reached age 55 and who have at least 30 years of service (55/30) shall be eligible for an unreduced formula retirement calculated at 2.3% of the member's highest year's salary for each year of retirement service credit.
39.2	(b)
This enhanced formula pension rate (2.3%) does not apply to those who retire under the terms of any other early retirement option, including the 50/30 early retirement option.
39.3	- Retirement Formula Pension Cap
Eligible PLAN members may retire with a formula pension allowance not to exceed 100% of their highest year's salary.
81
39.7 - Retirement Plan Contributions
The Department of Water and Power (Department) will make its Retirement Plan Contributions on behalf of the employees in bargaining units represented by Local 18 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (Local 18) by the end of the first work day following the 9th day of the month. Failure to do so shall obligate the Department to pay the higher of: interest at the rate of 8% per year, or the annual rate of return on the actuarial value of assets reported in the most recent valuation by the Retirement Board Actuary.
ARTICLE 40
EMPLOYEE RELEASE TIME
1)	The Department may, in its discretion, grant to elected officers or appointed representatives of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers - Local 18 (Local 18) time off for union representation activities. Under this Article, no more than nine (9) employees for all five (5) bargaining units collectively shall be so released at any one time.
2)	Each employee shall submit a request for release at least 21 calendar days prior to the effective date, notifying supervision of both the starting and ending dates of release. The Department shall make every effort to grant the request as submitted, and shall deny or modify it only in the event of undue hardship.
3)	During the release period, except as provided in Section (6), the City shall pay the employee's current salary while the employee is on release to Local 18. The employee on release to Local 18 shall receive all increases in salary and benefits approved for other Department employees in the same job classification during the release period.
4)	During the release period, except as provided in Section (6), employees shall retain all of their existing benefits, including, but not limited to vacation, sick leave,
- compensated time off, short-term disability, life insurance, medical, dental, workers' compensation, deferred compensation plan, retirement benefits, and seniority accrual in their civil service class.
83
ARTICLE 41
JOINT SAFETY INSTITUTE
The Parties agree to establish an IBEW-DWP Joint Safety Institute (JSI). The JSI is an independent body advocating worker safety through information sharing, training, and mentoring to promote overall safety throughout the Department. (First Amendment to the Agreement and Declaration of Trust of the Joint Safety Institute (JSI) adopted by the Board of Water and Power Commissioners December 19, 2000, per Resolution No. 001-132.)
■	ARTICLE 42
JOINT TRAINING INSTITUTE
The Parties agree to establish an IBEW-DWP Joint Training Institute (JTI). The JTI is an independent body committed to creating a work environment where employees are effectively trained in jobs that are critical to the Department's core business.
(Letter of Agreement and Declaration of Trust of the Joint Training Institute (JTI) adopted by the Board of Water and Power Commissioners on May 7, 2002, per Resolution No. 002-268.)
85
APPENDIX A-l
SALARY RANGES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2002
Effective October 1, 2002, salary ranges shall be increased by a percentage equal to the percentage increase in the CPI for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers as measured from August 2001 to August 2002 for U.S. City Average (1982-84=100); provided however, that if the CPI increases less than or equal to 4% the salary ranges shall be increased by 4%, and if the CPI increased by 6% or more, the salary ranges shall be increased by 6%.
87
APPENDIX A-2
SALARY RANGES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2003
Effective October 1, 2003, salary ranges shall be increased by a percentage equal to the percentage increase in the CPI for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers as measured from August 2002 to August 2003 for U.S. City Average (1982-84=100); provided however, that if the CPI increases less than or equal to 5% the salary ranges shall be increased by 5%, and if the CPI increased by 6% or more, the salary ranges shall be increased by 6%.
88
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 11/19/2002
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2002
(8J-0PER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
Page:
1
CLASS ♦ it * *	DDRNO	PAY RATE ********	STEP-1 ********	STEP-2 ********	STEP-3 ********	STEP-4	STEP-5 STEP-6 STEP-7 STEP-8 ******** ******** ******** ********	STEP-9 ********	STEP-10 it******
ELTC DISTRBN MOHN TNEE			-- 3870	♦ ★	* *	* * *	**********	♦ ♦	* *
	94-83605	NEW HOURLY	26.14	28.01	29.87	31.74	33.61 PETERSON FORMULA 1/		
		BIWEEKLY	2,091.20	2,240.80	2,389.60	2,539.20	2,688.80		
		MONTHLY	4,548.36	4,873.74	5,197.38	5,522.76	5,848.14		

§
§
Page:	47
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 09/20/2002
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT EFFDATE = 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8)-OPER MTNC t SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS DDRNO AIR CONDITIONING A 93-37000	PAY RATE STEP-1	STEP-2 MECHANIC 2/17/ -- 3774	* NEW HOURLY	28.46 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY			STEP-3 *	Jr	STEP-4 * * *	STEP-5 * * 35.37 2,829.60 6,154.38	STEP-6 * * *	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10 * *
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.171				36.254 2,900.32 6,308.24		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.901				37.161 2,972.88 6,465.95		Additional 2.5% of above rate	
* * B 45-37000	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.60				33.05 2,644.00 5,750.70			
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.265				33.876 2,710.08 5,894.47		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27,947				34.723 2,777.84 6,041.83		Additional 2.5% of above rate	
45-37140	SAME AS ABOVE								
APPRENTICE ELECTRICAL REPAIRER-- 3BS0			* *	it	*	* * *	* *	* * *	*******	* *
93-83800	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.72 1,897.60 4,127.28	25.41 2,032.80 4,421.34	27.10 2,168.00 4,715.40	28.80 2,304.00 5,011.20	30.49 2,439.20 5,305.26		PETERSON FORMULA 1/	
APPRENTICE MACHINIST		-- 3764	* *	* *	* * *	*	*	*	Hr	*******	* *
93-83704	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.72 1,897.60 4,127.28	25.41 2,032.80 4,421.34	27.10 2,168.00 4,715.40	28.80 2,304.00 5,011.20	30.49 2,439.20 5,305.26		PETERSON FORMULA 1/	
APPRENTICE-METAL	TRADES	-- 3789	* *	* *	* * *	* *	* * ♦	*******	* *
93-83717	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	22.72 1,817.60 3,953,28	24.34 1,947.20 4,235.16	25.96 2,076.80 4,517.04	27.58 2,206.40 4,798.92	29.21 2,336.80 5,082.54		PETERSON FORMULA 1/	
42-83703	NEW HOURLY	22.21	23.80	25.38	26.97	28.56
	BIWEEKLY	1,776.80	1,904.00	2,030.40	2,157.60	2,284.80
	MONTHLY	3,864.54	4,141.20	4,416.12	4,692.78	4,969.44
PETERSON FORMULA 1/
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03 Run Date-. 09/20/2002				COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT EFFDATE « 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X {CURRENT RATE) (8)-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)								Page:		49
CLASS *****	DDRNO ******** B 93-61001	PAY RATE NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	STEP-1 * * * * ** * * 20.27 1,621.60 3,526.98	STEP-2 ******** 21.40 1,712.00 3,723.60	STEP-3 22*59 1,807*20 3,930*66	STEP-4 it ♦ * It * * * * 23.85 1,908.00 4,149.90		STEP-5 * * ** * * ** 25.18 2,014.40 4,381.32	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8		STEP-9 ********	STEP-10 ********	
AUTO	BODY BUILDER AND REPAIRER 17/-- 3704	*				* *	A	*	*	* *	★	*	-t	*	*	*	*	* * *	*	*
	93-37129	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.66					30.63 2,450.40 5, 329.62						
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.276					31.396 2,511.68 5,462.86	Plus 2.53	of	base	pay for DDR		
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.908					32.181 2,574.48 5,599.43	Additional	2	.5% of	above rate		
AUTO	ELECTRICIAN	17/	-- 3707	It	it	* *	it	*	*	* *	*****	*	*	* * *	*	*
	93-37117	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.44					29.13 2,330.40 5,068.62						
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.026					29.858 2,388.64 5,195.34	Plus 2.5%	of	base	pay for DDR		
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.627					30.605 2,448.40 5,325.22	Additional	2	.5% of	above rate		
AUTO	PAINTER A 93-37001	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	-- 3721 23.72	* *	* *	* *	it	* * 29.47 2,357.60 5,127.78	*****	*	*	* * •	*	*
* *	B 93-37105	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.13					28.74 2,299.20 5,000.76						
BATTERY TECHNICIAN 17/			-- 3725	* *	* *	♦ *	*	-it	it	*****	*	*	* * *	*	*
45-37138 NEW HOURLY 23.44 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY
29.13 2,330.40 5,088.52
Page:	49
1Report ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT EFFDATE - 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(81-OPER MTNC 5 SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
* * * * *	****>*++	*♦*★ ★***	it*****-*	*■* + ★+♦★*	********	********	********	*******4	r ********	********	******** ********
AIR	CONDITIONING A 93-37000	MECHANIC 2/17/ — 3774	*	*	*	* NEW HOURLY	29.89 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	30.637 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	31.403 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		* * *	♦ * * * 37.14 2,971.20 6,462.36 38.069 3,045.52 6,623.92 39.020 3,121.60 6,789.52	Plus 2.5% Additional	* * of base 2.5% of	pay for DDR above rate
B 45-37000	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.93
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.628
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.344
45-37140	SAME AS ABOVE	
34.70 2,776.00 6,037.SO
35.568 2,845.44 6,188.75
36.457
2,916.56
6,343.47
APPRENTICE ELECTRICAL REPAIRER— 3850		* *	* *	* * *	* * *	♦
93-83800 NEW HOURLY	24.91	26.69	28.46	30.24	32.02	
BIWEEKLY	1,992.80	2,135.20	2,276.80	2,419.20	2,561.60	
MONTHLY	4,334.34	4,644.06	4,952.04	5,261.76	5,571.48	
APPRENTICE MACHINIST	-- 3764	* *	* *	* * *	* * *	*
93-83704 NEW HOURLY	24.91	26.69	26.46	30.24	32.02	
BIWEEKLY	1,992.80	2,135.20	2,276.80	2,419.20	2,561.60	
MONTHLY	4,334.34	4,644.06	4, 952.04	5,261.76	5,571.48	
APPRENTICE-METAL TRADES	— 3789	* *	* *	* * *	* * *	*
93-83717 NEW HOURLY	23.85	25.55	27.26	28.96	30.66	
BIWEEKLY	1,908.00	2,044.00	2,180.80	2,316.80	2,452.80	
MONTHLY	4,149.90	4,445.70	4,743.24	5,039.04	5,334.84	
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
Additional 2.5% of above rate
PETERSON FORMULA 1/
PETERSON FORMULA 1/
PETERSON FORMULA 1/

IReport ID: HR6017P1-03 Run Date: 09/20/2002		COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT			Page:	51	
		EFFDATE • 10/01/2002 (8)-OPER M	( 1.040) X TNC & SRVC	(CURRENT RATE} UNIT (IBEW)		
CIASS	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-	•2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
***** ******** ********	********	*****1	t**	********	********	* * * ** * * *	******** ********	********	******** ********
BUILDING REPAIRER	-- 3333	* A 93-33114 NEW HOURLY	23.23 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY 94-33110 SAME AS ABOVE		* * * * * *	* * 28.se 2,308.80 5,021.64	*****	* * *	* * * *
B 93-33112 94-33103		28.09 2,247.20 4,887.66
	NEW HOURLY	22.61	
	BIWEEKLY	
	MONTHLY	
	SAME AS ABOVE	
CABINET MAKER 2/17/	-- 3343 93-33009 NEW HOURLY	24.48 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 25.092 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	25.719 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY 94-33120 SAME AS ABOVE		********************** 30.41 2,432.80 5,291.34 31.170	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR 2,493.60 5,423.62 31.949	Additional 2.5% of above rate 2,555.92 5,559.21
CARPENTER 2/17/ 93-33105	-- 3344 NEW HOURLY	24.04 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	24.641 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 25.257 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.87 2,389.60 5,197.38 30.617	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR 2,449.36 5,327.31 31.382	Additional 2.5% of above rate 2,510.56 5,460.49
CEMENT FINISHER 93-33113	2/17/	-- 3353 NEW HOURLY	22.61 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	********************* 26.61	28.09 2,128.80 2,247.20 4,630.14 4,887.66
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03 Run Date: 07/09/2003			COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT						Page:	51	
			EFFDATE - 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (B)-OPER MTNC 4 SRVC					(CURRENT RATE) UNIT (IBEW)		
CLASS AUDIO	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1 VISUAL TECHNICIAN	— 6147 A 93-61002	NEW HOURLY	24.47 BIWEEKLY	1,957.60 MONTHLY	4,257.76 94-61100	SAME AS ABOVE			STEP-2 * * 25.83 2,066.40 4,494.42	STEP-3 ******** * * 27.27 2,181.60 4,744.98	STEP-4 * * * 28.79 2,303.20 5,009.46	STEP-5 ******** * * 30.40 2,432.00 5,289.60	STEP-6	STEP-7 ******** ********	STEP-6	STEP-9	STEP-10 * * * * *
* ★	B 93-61001	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.28 1,702.40 3,702.72	22.47 1,797.60 3,909.78	23.72 1,897.60 4,127.28	25.04 2,003.20 4,356.96	26.44 2,115.20 4,600.56			
AUTO	BODY BUILDER AND REPAIRER 17/ --			3704	*	* *	* > ★	* *	*****	* *	*****
	93-37129	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.89				32.16 2,572.80 5,595.84			
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.537				32.964 2,637.12 5,735.74	Plus 2.5%	of base	pay for DDR
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.201				33.788 2,703.04 5,879.13	Additional	2.5% of	above rate
AUTO	ELECTRICIAN	17/	-- 3707	+ *	* * '	* * *	* *	*****	* *	* * * * *
	93-37117	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.62				30.59 2,447.20 5,322.66			
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.236				31.355 2,508.40 5,455.73	Plus 2.5%	of base	pay for DDR
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.866				32.139 2,571.12 5,592.12	Additional	2.5% of	; above rate
AUTO *■*	PAINTER A 93-37001	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	-- 3721 24.90	* *	* *	* * *	* ■* 30.94 2,475.20 5,383.56		♦ *	
	B 93-37105	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.30				30.18 2,414.40 5,251.32			
IReport ID; HR6017P1-03	COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT	Page:	S3
Run Date: 09/20/2002	EFFDATE = 10/01/2002	( 1.040} X (CURRENT RATE}
{8}-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT {IBEW)
CLASS DDRNO PAY RATE STEP-1 STEP-2 STEP-3 STEP-4 STEP-5 STEP-6 STEP-7 STEP-8 STEP-9 STEP-10
***** ******** COMMUNICATIONS A 94-36126	******** **: ELECTRICIAN 17/- NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	****** ******** ***** - 3686	*	*	* 27.27	*	*	****** ******** ***: ***** 33.88 2,710.40 5,895.12	*********
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.952			34.727 2,778.16 6,042.50	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.651			35.595 2,847.60 6,193.56	Additional 2.5% of above rate
94-36129	SAME AS ABOVE					
94-36131	SAME AS ABOVE					
* * B 94-75059	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.73		30.27 2,421.60 5,266.98		31.96 2,556.80 5,561.04			
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.373			31.027 2,482.16 5,398.65	32.759 2,620.72 5,700.07		Plus 2.5% of base pay for	DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.033			31.802 2,544.16 5,533.62	33.578 2,686.24 5,842.57		Additional 2.5% of above	rate
COMPRESSOR OPERATOR 2/ A 93-35101 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		-- 3503 21.53	* *	"	W	It	*	♦	* * * 26.75 2,140.00 4,654.50	*	*******	*
94-35114	SAME AS ABOVE								
** B 93-35104	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	18.96				23.56 1,884.80 4,099.44			
CONSTR EQPT SRVC	WKR	-- 3541	* *	* *	* * *	* * *	*	*******	*
45-83707	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.07 1,685.60 3,666.18	22.58 1,806.40 3,928.92	24.08 1,926.40 4,189.92	25.59 2,047.20 4,452.66	27.09 2,167.20 4,713.66		PETERSON FORMULA 1/	
45-83717 SAME AS ABOVE

IReport ID: HR6017P1-03	COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT	Page:	53
Run Date: 07/09/2003	EFFDATE = 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE) MTNC fi SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
(8)-OPER	
CLASS	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
*****	itlit***	********	********	********	********	********	********	********	********	********	********	
BOILERMAKER	-- 3735	****** 95-37351 NEW HOURLY	27.81 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	*************** 34.55 2,764.00 6,011.70
BUILDING REPAIRER	-- 3333	****** A 93-33114 NEW HOURLY	24.38 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY 94-33110 SAME AS ABOVE ** B 93-33112 NEW HOURLY	23.74 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY 94-33103 SAME AS ABOVE	*************** 30.30 2,424.00 5,272,20 29.50 2,360.00 5,133.00
CABINET MAKER 2/17/	— 3343	****** 93-33009 NEW HOURLY	25,70 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	26.343 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 27.001 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY 94-33120 SAME AS ABOVE	*************** 31.93 2,554.40 5,555.82 32.728	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR 2,616.24 5,694.72 33.546	Additional 2.5% of above rate 2,683.68 5,837.09
CARPENTER 2/17/	— 3344	****** 93-33105 NEW HOURLY	25.23 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	25.861 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	26.507 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	31.36 2,508.60 5,456.64 32.144	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR 2,571.52 5,593.06 32.948	Additional 2.5% of above rate 2,635.84 5,732.89

IReport ID; HR6017P1-03 Run Date: 09/20/2002			COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT EFFDATE = 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE) (81-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)							Page:	S5
CLASS	DDRNO ***** ******** C 4/ 93-03106	PAY RATE NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	STEP-1 ******** 8.87	STEP-2 ********	STEP-3 ********	STEP-4	STEP-5 11.01 880.80 1,915.74	STEP*6	STEP-7 ******** ********	STEP-8 *******	STEP » *****	-9 ♦ **	STEP-10
DUPL & MAILG EQPT RPRR		-- 3415	* *	* *	* * *	* *	* * . * * *	* *	* *	*	* *
93-34101	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.54				29.24 2,339.20 5,087.76					
DUPLICATING MACHINE OPERATOR A 94-14108 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		-- 1493 18.09 1,447.20 3,147.66	* * 19.10 1,528.00 3,323.40	* * 20.16 1,612.80 3,507.84	★ * * 21.28 1,702.40 3,702.72	* * 22.47 1,797.60 3,909.78	*****	* *	* *	*	* *
* * B 94-14107	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	17.31 1,384.80 3,011.94	18.28 1,462.40 3,180.72	19.30 1,544.00 3,358.20	20.38 1,630.40 3,546.12	21.52 1,721.60 3,744.48					
* * C 94-14106	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	16.37 1,309.60 2,848.38	17.28 1,382.40 3,006.72	18.24 1,459.20 3,173.76	19.26 1,540.80 3,351.24	20.33 1,626.40 3,537.42					
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION MECHANIC 16/17/-&			- 3878	* *	* * *	* *	*****	* *	• *	*	* *
94-38200	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	33.07				41.09 3,287.20 7,149.66					
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	33.897				42.117 3,369.36 7,328.40	Plus 2.5*	of base	pay for	DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	34.744				43.170 3,453.60 7,511.61	Additional	. 2.5% o;	f above	rate	
* * . B 12/ 94-38117	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	31.47				39.09 3,127.20 6,801.66					
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	32.257				40.067 3,205.36 6,971.70	Plus 2.5%	of base	pay for	DDR	
I ll|:
Page:	55
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
. Run Date: 07/09/2003
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT EFFDATE - 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8J-0PER MTNC 6 SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS	DDRNO COMMUNICATIONS	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3 ELECTRICIAN 17/ -- 3686	*	*	*		STEP-4 ********	STEP-5	STEP-6 ******** ********	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
A 94-36126	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.63		35.58 2,646.40 6,190.92		
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.346		36.469 2,917.52 6,345.69	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	30.079		37.381 2,990.48 6,504.33	Additional 2.5% of above rate	
94-36129	SAME AS ABOVE					
94-36131	SAME AS ABOVE					
B 94-75059	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.01			31.79 2,543.20 5,531.46	33.56 2,684.80 5,839.44			
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.685			32.585 2,606.80 5,669.75	34.399 2,751.92 5,985.43	Plus 2.5% of base pay for	DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.377			33.399 2,671.92 5,811.49	35.259 2,820.72 6,135.07	Additional 2.5% of above	rate	
COMPRESSOR OPERATOR 2/ A 93-35101 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		- 3503	* 22.61	* *	*		28.09 2,247.20 4,887.66		* *	*
94-35114	SAME AS ABOVE								
B		
93-35104	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	19.91
24.74
1,979.20
4,304.76
CONSTR EQPT SRVC WKR	— 3541
45-83707	NEW HOURLY	22.13	23.71	25.29	26.87	28.45	PETERSON FORMULA 1/
	BIWEEKLY	1,770.40	1,896.80	2,023.20	2,149.60	2,276.00	
	MONTHLY	3,850.62	4,125.54	4,400.46	4,675.38	4,950.30	
45-83717 SAME AS ABOVE
‘ ih nd
IReport ID; HR6017P1-03 Run Datej 09/20/2002		COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT					Page:	57
		EFFDATE - 10/01/2002 (8}-OPER M		( 1.040) X TNC & SRVC	(CURRENT RATE) UNIT (IBEW)			
CLASS DDRNO ***** ******** B 94-38081	PAY RATE NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	STEP-1 19.93	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4 23.45 1,876.00 4,080.30	STEP-5 24.76 1,980.80 4,308.24	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8 ********	STEP-9	STEP*10 ********
ELECTRIC STATION A 11/ 94-52053	OPERATOR 17/-- 5224 NEW HOURLY	28.27 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		*******	* * 35.13 2,810.40 6,112.62	*****	* *	* - * *	* *
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.977		36.008 2,880.64 6,265.44	Plus 2.5%	of base ;	pay for DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.701		36.909 2,952.72 6,422.08	Additional	2.5% of	above rate	
B 94-52150	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.81
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.505
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.218
94-52155	SAME AS ABOVE	
34,55
2,764.00
6,011.70
35.414	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
2,833.12
6,161.99
36.299	Additional 2.5% of above rate
2,903.92
6,316.04
C 82-52051	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.88	32.15 2,572.00 5,594.10
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.527	32.954 2,636.32 5,733.95
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.190	33.778 2,702.24 5,877,30
82-52059	SAME AS ABOVE		
82-52128	SAME AS ABOVE		
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
Additional 2.5% of above rate
Page:	58
IReport ID; HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8I-0PER MTNC 4 SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	. STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9		STEP-10
DUPL	♦ * *** * ★ *	*•*■***♦*•* £ MAILG EQPT RPRR 93-34101 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	— 3415 24.71	* *	* *	* * *	******** * * 30.70 2,456.00 5,341.80	*****	***** ** * * * *	*	* * * *	* *
DUPLICATING MACHINE OPERATOR A 94-14108 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		— 1493 18.98 1,518.40 3,302.52	20.04 1,603.20 3,486.96	* * 21.16 1,692.80 3,681.84	22.34 1,787.20 3,887.16	* * 23.59 1,887.20 4,104.66	*****	* * *	*	*	
B 94-14107	NEW HOURLY	18.20	19.21	20.28	21.41	22.60
	BIWEEKLY	1,456.00	1,536.80	1,622.40	1,712.80	1,808.00
	MONTHLY	3,166.80	3,342.54	3,528.72	3,725.34	3,932.40
C 94-14106	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	17.18 1,374.40 2,989.32	18.14 1,451.20 3, 156.36	19.15 1,532.00 3,332.10	20.22 1,617.60 3,518.28	21.35 1,708.00 3,714.90
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION MECHANIC 16/17/-A 94-38200 NEW HOURLY	34.72 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	35.588 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	36.478 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY			- 3878 *		* * *	* * 43.14 3,451.20 7,506.36 44.219 3,537.52 7,694.02 45.324 3,625.92 7, 886.37
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
Additional 2.5% of above cate
B 12/ 94-38117	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	33.04
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	33.866
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	34.713
12/		
94-38305	SAME AS ABOVE	
41.04
3,283.20
7,140.96
42.066	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
3,365.28
7,319.48
43.118	Additional 2.5% of above rate
3,449.44
7,502.47
I III.
Page:	59
IReport ID; HR6017P1-03
Run Date; 09/20/2002
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT EFFDATE = 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8)-OFER MTNC 6 SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS DDRNO ***** ********* ELECTRIC TROUBLE A 94-36181	PAY RATE ******** DISPATCHER NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	STEP-1 ******** -- 3828 26.25 2,100.00 4,567.50	STEP-2 ******** 27,71 2,216.80 4,821.54	STEP-3 ' * * 29.26 2,340.80 5,091.24	STEP-4 Hr*****#1* It	*	* 30.89 2,471.20 5,374.86	STEP-5 * * 32.61 2,608.80 5,674.14	STEP-6 ♦ * *	STEP-7 • *	STEP-8	STEP*9 *****	STEP-10 ******** ♦ *
♦ * B 94-38185	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.99 1,999.20 4,348.26	26.38 2,110.40 4,590.12	27.85 2,228.00 4,845.90	29.40 2,352.00 5,115.60	31.04 2,483.20 5,400.96				
** C 94-38192	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.48 1,718.40 3,737.52	22.68 1,814.40 3,946.32	23.94 1,915.20 4,165.56	25.27 2,021.60 4,396.98	26.66 2,134.40 4,642.32				
ELECTRICAL CRAFT	HELPER	-- 3799	* *	* *	* * *	* *	* * *	* *	*****	* *
93-83714	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.72 1,897.60 4,127.28	25.41 2,032.80 4,421.34	27.10 2,168.00 4,715.40	28.80 2,304.00 5,011.20	30.49 2,439.20 5,305.26		PETERSON	FORMULA 1/	
94-83706	SAME AS ABOVE									
** A 93-37009	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	20.51 1,640.80 3,568.74	21.65 1,732.00 3,767.10	22.86 1,828.80 3,977.64	24.13 1,930.40 4,198.62	25.48 2,038.40 4,433.52				
94-37126	SAME AS ABOVE									
* * . B 93-37106	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	18.75 1,500.00 3,262.50	19.80 1,584.00 3,445.20	20.90 1,672.00 3,636.60	22.07 1,765.60 3,840.18	23.30 1,864.00 4,054.20				
94-37125	SAME AS ABOVE									
ELECTRICAL MECHANIC 9/ 17/	~ 82-38132 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		-- 3841 27.27	* *	* *	* * *	* * 33.88 2,710.40 5,895.12	♦ * *	* *	*****	* *
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.952				34.727 2,778.16 6,042.50		Plus 2.5%	Of base pay for DDR	
page:	60
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE - 10/01/2003 ( 1.050} X (CORRENT RATE)
(81-OPER MTNC 4 SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
CLASS DDRNO
PAY RATE ********
STEP-1
STEP-2
STEP-3 ********
STEP-4
NEW HOURLY 30.432
BIWEEKLY MONTHLY
NEW HOURLY 31.193
BIWEEKLY MONTHLY
STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7 STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
********	********	********	********	********	********
37.823	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
3,025.84
6,581.12
38.768	Additional 2.5% of above rate
3,101.44
6,745.65
B 94-52150	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.20
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.930
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	30.678
94-52155	SAME AS ABOVE	
36.28 2,902.40 6,312.72
37.187 2,974.96 6,470.54
38.117 3,049.36 6, 632.30
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
Additional 2.5% of above rate
C				
S2-52051	NEW HOURLY	27.18	33.77	
	BIWEEKLY		2,701.60	
	MONTHLY		5,875.98	
	NEW HOURLY	27.859	34.614	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	BIWEEKLY		2,769.12	
	MONTHLY		6,022.88	
	NEW HOURLY	28.556	35.480	Additional 2.5% of above rate
	BIWEEKLY		2,838.40	
	MONTHLY		6,173.45	
82-52059	SAME AS ABOVE			
82-52128	SAME AS ABOVE			
94-52052	SAME AS ABOVE			
94-52151	SAME AS ABOVE			
94-52153	SAME AS ABOVE			
D 94-52055 NEW HOURLY 24.71
BIWEEKLY MONTHLY
30.70 2,456.00 5,341.80
j-i-g- nil
IReport ID; HR6017P1-03 Run Date: 09/20/2002		COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT									Page:	61
		EFFDATE - 10/01/2002 1 (8)-OFER M				[ 1.040) X INC & SRVC	(CURRENT RATE) UNIT (IBEW)					
CLASS DDRNO	PAY RATE ***** ********	******** ELECTRICAL SERVICE WORKER A 94-30157 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		STEP-1 ******** -- 3825 24.48	STEP-2 * *	STEP-3 ******** * * -	STEP-4 * * * 28.80 2,304.00 5,011.20	STEP-5 * * 30.41 2,432.80 5,291.34	STEP-6	STEP-7 ******** * * * * *	STEP- * *	■8	*	STEP-9 * *	STEP-10 ******** ♦ ♦
** B 94-30156	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.44 1,875.20 4,078.56	24.75 1,980.00 4,306.50	26.13 2,090.40 4,546.62	27.59 2,207.20 4,800.66	29.13 2,330.40 5,068.62						
** C 94-38155	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	19.93 1,594.40 3,467.82	21.04 1,683.20 3,660.96	22.21 1,776.80 3,864.54	23.45 1,876.00 4,080.30	24.76 1,980.80 4,308.24						
ELECTRICAL TESTER A 72-75347 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		-- 7513 26.03 2,082.40 4,529.22	* * 27.48 2,198.40 4,781.52	* * 29.01 2,320.80 5,047.74	* * * 30.63 2,450.40 5,329.62	* * 32,34 2,587.20 5,627.16	*****	* *		*	* ♦	* *
72-75454	SAME AS ABOVE											
94-75341	SAME AS ABOVE											
* * B 94-75340	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.48 1,958.40 4,259.52	25.84 2,067.20 4,496.16	27.28 2,182.40 4,746.72	28.80 2,304.00 5,011.20	30.41 2,432.00 5,291.34						
ELECTRICIAN 17/		-- 3863	* *	* *	* * *	* *	*****	* *		*	* *	* *
93-3BOOO	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.03				32.34 2,587.20 5,627.16						
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.681				33.149 2,651.92 5,767.84	Plus 2.5%	of base		pay	for DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.348				33.977 2,710.16 5,912.04	Additional	.2*5%	of	above rate		
ELEVATOR MECHANIC 2/17/ A	" 93-30102 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		-- 3866 27.81	w	*	* *	* * *	* * 34.55 2,764.00 6,011.70	*****	* *		*	* *	* *
Page:	62
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2003	{ 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(81-OPER MTNC S SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
CLASS	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4
*****	*+**+*++ 94-83706	SAME AS ABOVE	********	*■*■+ *****	********
STEP-5
STEP-6
STEP-7
STEP-8
STEP-9
STEP-10
A
93-37009	NEW HOURLY	21.53 BIWEEKLY	1,722.40 MONTHLY	3,746.22	22.73 1,818.40 3,955.02	24.00 1,920.00 4,176.00	25.34 2,027.20 4,409.16	26.75 2,140.00 4, 654.50
94-37126	SAME AS ABOVE				
B 93-37106	NEW HOURLY	19.70	20.80	21.96	23.18	24.47
	BIWEEKLY	1,576.00	1, 664.00	1,756.80	1,854.40	1,957.60
	MONTHLY	3,427.90	3,619.20	3,821.04	4,033.32	4,257.78
94-37125 SAME AS ABOVE
ELECTRICAL MECHANIC 9/	- 17/ 82-38132 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		- 3841	* 28.63		*	*	*		* * 35.58 2,846.40 6,190.92
17/ 82-38302 17/ 93-38107	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY SAME AS ABOVE SAME AS ABOVE	29.346 30.079						36.469 2,917.52 6,345.69 37.381 2,990.48 6,504.33
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
Additional 2.5% of above rate
94-38006	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.91 1,992.80 4,334.34	26.69 2,135.20 4,644.06	28.46 2,276.80 4,952.04	30.24 2,419.20 5,261.76	32.02 2,561.60 5,571.48
ELECTRICAL REPAIRER 17/ A 93-38020 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		-- 3853 31.47	* +	* *	* + *	39.09 3,127.20 6, 801.66
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	32.257				40.067 3,205.36 6,971.70
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	33.063				41.069 3,285.52 7,145.99
PETERSON FORMULA 1/
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
Additional 2.5% of above rate
IReport ID; HR6017P1-03
Run Date; 09/20/2002
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2002	{ 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE)
(B)-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
Page;	63
CLASS DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
***** ********	****** * *	***** * **	* ******•	********	********	********	* * ** * * * *	********	********	********	********
c											
94-75112	NEW HOURLY	26.82	28.32	29.90	31.57	33,33					
	BIWEEKLY	2,145.60	2,265.60	2,392.00	2,525.60	2,666.40					
	MONTHLY	4,666.68	4,927.68	5,202.60	5,493.18	5,799.42					
* *											
D 62-75701	NEW HOURLY	26.47			31.16	32.90					
	BIWEEKLY				2,492.80	2,632.00					
	MONTHLY				5,421.84	5,724.60					
94-75701 SAME AS ABOVE
* * E 94-16204	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.13 2,010.40 4,372.62	26.53 2,122.40 4,616.22	28.01 2,240.80 4,873.74	29.57 2, 365.60 5,145.18	31.22 2,497.60 5,432.28
* * F 72-75700	NEW HOURLY	24.48	25.84	27,28	28.80	30.41
	BIWEEKLY	1,958.40	2,067.20	2,182.40	2,304.00	2,432.80
	MONTHLY	4,259.52	4,496.16	4,746.72	5,011.20	5,291.34
94-75700 SAME AS ABOVE
G 94-16169	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.62 1,889.60 4,109.88	24.94 1,995*20 4,339*56	26*33 2,106*40 4,581*42	27*80 2,224*00 4,837*20	29.35 2,348.00 5,106.90			
EQUIPMENT MECHANIC 17/ A 93-37130 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		-- 3711 24.97	♦ *	* *	* * *	31.02 2,481.60 5,397.48	*		* * *
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.594				31.796 2,543.68 5,532.42		Plus 2.5% of base	pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.234				32.590 2,607.20 5,670.73		Additional 2.5% of	above rate
* * B 93-37135	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.89				29.68 2,374.40 5,164.32			
Page:	65
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE - 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(S)-OPER MTNC 4 SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS DDRNO PAY RATE STEP-1 STEP-2 STEP-3 STEP-4 STEP-5 STEP-6 STEP-7 STEP-B STEP-9 STEP-10 ***** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** 94-75702 SAME AS ABOVE
B 94-16170	NEW HOURLY	28.92	30.53	32.23	34.03	35.93
	BIWEEKLY	2,313.60	2,442.40	2, 578.40	2,722.40	2, 874.40
	MONTHLY	5,032.08	5,312.22	5,608.02	5,921.22	6,251.82
C 94-75112	NEW HOURLY	28.17	29.74	31.40	33.15	35.00
	BIWEEKLY	2,253.60	2,379.20	2,512.00	2,652.00	2,800.00
	MONTHLY	4,901.58	5,174.76	5,463.60	5,768.10	6,090,00
D 82-75701	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.81
94-75701	SAME AS ABOVE	
32.73
2,618.40
5,695.02
34.55
2,764.00
6,011.70
E 94-16204	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.39 2,111.20 4,591.86	27.86 2,228.80 4,847.64	29.41 2,352.80 5,117.34	31.05 2,484.00 5,402.70	32.78 2,622.40 5,703.72
F						
72-75700	NEW HOURLY	25.70	27.13	28.64	30.24	31.93
	BIWEEKLY	2,056.00	2,170.40	2,291.20	2,419.20	2,554.40
94-75700 G	MONTHLY	4,471.80 SAME AS ABOVE		4,720.62	4,983.36	5,261.76	5,555.82
94-16169	NEW HOURLY	24.81	26.19	27.65	29.19	30.82
	BIWEEKLY	1,984.80	2,095.20	2,212.00	2,335.20	2,465.60
	MONTHLY	4,316.94	4,557.06	4,811.10	5,079.06	5,362.68
EQUIPMENT MECHANIC 17/ A 93-37130 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		— 3711 26.22 26.876	* *	* *	*	*	Hr	* * * 32.57 2,605.60 5,667.18 33.384 2,670.72 5,808.86
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
CIF]. •• fl-1 ।
1Report ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 09/20/2002
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE « 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8)-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
Page:	65
CLASS	DDRNO	PAY RATE *****+i*	STEP-1	STEP-2 * * **** * 4t	STEP-3 ********	STEP-4 ********	STEP-5	STEP-6 ******** ********	STEP-7 . ********	STEP-B ********	STEP-9	STEP-10 ********
	45-83702	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	20.39 1,631.20 3,547.86	21.85 1,748.00 3,601.90	23.30 1,864.00 4,054.20	24.76 1,980.80 4,308.24	26.22 2,097.60 4,562.28	PETERSON	FORMULA 1/		
93-35014	SAME AS ABOVE
93-83703	SAME AS ABOVE
**
38-35111	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	16.91 1,352.80 2,942.34	17.85 1,428.00 3,105.90	18.85 1,508.00 3,279.90	19.90 1,592.00 3,462.60	21.01 1,680.80 3,655.74
93-35100 SAME AS ABOVE GARDENER CARETAKER	-- 3141			* *	* *	* * *	* *
93-31137	NEW HOURLY	16.67	17.60	18.58	19.62	20.71
	BIWEEKLY	1,333.60	1,408.00	.1,486.40	1,569.60	1,656.80
	MONTHLY	2,900.56	3,062.40	3,232.92	3,413.88	3,603.54
94-31106 SAME AS ABOVE
HEAVY DUTY EQUIPMENT MECHANIC A 6/ 93-37113 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		17/-- 3743 24.73	*	* *	r	*	*	*	* ♦ ★ 30.73 2,458.40 5,347.02	*	*********
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.348						31.496 2,519.84 5,480.70		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.982						32.286 2,582.68 5,617.72		Additional 2.5% of above rate
* *• B 93-37134	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.22						30.10 2,408.00 5,237.40		
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.626						30,853 2,468.24 5,368.34		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.446						31.624 2,529.92 5,502.55		Additional 2.5% of above rate
Page:	66
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2003	( 1.050} X (CURRENT RATE}
(S)-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW}
CLASS DDRNO
PAY RATE
STEP-1 STEP-2 STEP-3
STEP-4
STEP-5
STEP-6 STEP-7
STEP-6
STEP-9
STEP-10
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.547	'	34.219 2,737.52 5,954.08	Additional 2.5% of above rate
B				
93-37135	NEW HOURLY	25.07	31.16	
	BIWEEKLY		2,492.80	
	MONTHLY		5,421.84	
	NEW HOURLY	25.697	31.939	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	BIWEEKLY		2,555.12	
	MONTHLY		5,557.39	
	NEW HOURLY	26.339	32.737	Additional 2.5% of above rate
	BIWEEKLY		2,618.96	
	MONTHLY		5,696.32	
C				
93-37116	NEW HOURLY	24.62	30.59	
	BIWEEKLY		2,447.20	
	MONTHLY		5,322.66	
	NEW HOURLY	25.236	31.355	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	BIWEEKLY		2,508.40	
	MONTHLY		5,455.73	
	NEW HOURLY	25.866	32.139	Additional 2.5% of above rate
	BIWEEKLY		2,571.12	
	MONTHLY		5,592.12	
EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	-		— 3525	*	*	*	********	***★* + **♦
A				
93-35111	NEW HOURLY	26.47	32.90	■	
	BIWEEKLY		2,632.00	
	MONTHLY		5,724.60	
93-35124	SAME AS ABOVE			
94-35111	SAME AS ABOVE			
B 93-35125 NEW HOURLY 24.90 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY
30.94
2,475.20
5,383.56
94-35110 SAME AS ABOVE
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE « 10/01/2002 ( 1.040} X (CURRENT RATE)
(B)-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
Page:	67
IReport ID; HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 09/20/2002
CLASS	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2 ********	STEP-3 ********	STEP-4 ********	STEP-5	STEP-6 ********	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9 ******** ******** ********	STEP-10 ********
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.556				35.480 2,838.40 6,173.45		Additional 2*5% of above rate	
LIGHT	EQUIPMENT OPERATOR		-- 3523	* *	* *	* * *	* *	* * *	*******	* *
	93-35102	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.04				26.14 2,091.20 4,548.36			
	94-35006	SAME AS ABOVE								
LINE	MAINTENANCE	ASSISTANT	-- 3882	* *	* *	* * *	*r	It	* * *	*******	* *
	82-38025	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.13 1,850.40 4,024.62	24.42 1,953.60 4,249.08	25.78 2,062.40 4,485.72	27.22 2,177.60 4,736.28	28.74 2,299.20 5,000.76			
82-38026	SAME	AS	ABOVE
82-38115	SAME	AS	ABOVE
82-38167	SAME	AS	ABOVE
LOCKSMITH 17/ A 93-33005	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	-- 3393 25.67
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.312
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.970
30.21 2,416.80 5,256.54	31.89 2,551.20 5,548.86		
30.965 2,477.20 5,387.95	32.687 2,614.96 5,687.58	Plus 2.5% of	base pay for DDR
31.739 2,539.12 5,522.65	33.504 2,680.32 5,829.77	Additional 2	.5% of above rate
B 93-33006	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.04
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.641
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.257
29.87 2,389.60 5,197.38
30.617 2,449.36 5,327.31
31.382 2,510.56 5,460.49
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
Additional 2.5% of above rate
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
Page:	69
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE - 10/01/2003 ( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(S)-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS * ****	DDRNO ********	PAY RATE *+*>**++	STEP-1	STEP-2 ******** ********	STEP-3 ********	STEP-4 ********	STEP-5 STEP-6 **tfrt***	********	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10 ******** ******** ******** ********
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	30.227	’			37.546 3,003.68 6, 532.96	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	30.983			38.484 3,078.72 6,696.28	Additional 2.5% of above rate
B 94-38004	NEW HOURLY	28.55	35.46 2,836.80 6,170.04
	BIWEEKLY	
	MONTHLY	
LIGHT EQUIPMENT	NEW HOURLY	29.264 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	29.995 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	. OPERATOR	-- 3523	*	*	36.346	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR 2,907.68 6,324.29 37.255	Additional 2.5% of above rate 2,980.40 6,482.40
93-35102 94-35006 LINE MAINTENANCE	NEW HOURLY	22.10 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY SAME AS ABOVE ASSISTANT	— 3882	*	*	27.45	. 2,196.00 4,776.30 *******************
82-38025 82-38026 82-38115 82-38167 LOCKSMITH 17/	NEW HOURLY	24.30	25.65 BIWEEKLY	1,944.00	2,052.00 MONTHLY	4,228.20	4,463.10 SAME AS ABOVE SAME AS ABOVE SAME AS ABOVE — 3393	*	*	27.08	28.59	30.18 2,166.40 2,267,20 2,414.40 4, 711.92 4,974.66 5,251.32
A 93-33005	NEW HOURLY	26.95 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	27.624 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	31.71	33.48 2,536.80 2,678.40 5,517.54 5,825.52 32.503	34.317	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR 2,600.24 2,745.36 5,655.48 5,971.16
• mb- h
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2002	( 1.040} X (CURRENT RATE}
(81-OPER MTNC t SRVC UNIT (IBEW}
Page:	69
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 09/20/2002
CLASS
STEP-1
STEP-2
STEP-3
STEP-4
STEP-5
STEP-6
STEP-7
STEP-B
STEP-9
STEP-10
PAY RATE
DDRNO
91-31012	SAME	AS	ABOVE
93-31128	SAME	AS	ABOVE
94-31120	SAME	AS	ABOVE
* * B 3/											
93-03102	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	12.24	15.20 1,216.00 2,644.80								
MASONRY WORKER	2/17/	-- 3451	* *	♦ *	* * *	* * *	*	******	*	* *	*
93-34112	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.44				29.13 2,330.40 5,068.62					
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.026				29.858 2,388.64 5,195.34		Plus 2-5% of base pay	for	DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.627				30.605 2,448.40 5,325.22		Additional 2.5% of above		rate	
MECHANICAL HELPER 2/		-- 3771	* *	* *	* * *	* * *	*	******	*	* *	*
93-83753	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.07 1,685.60 3,666.18	22.58 1,806.40 3,928.92	24.08 1,926.40 4,189.92	25.59 2,047.20 4,452.66	27.09 2,167.20 4,713.66		PETERSON FORMULA 1/			
93-B3750	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	20.39 1,631.20 3,547.86	21.85 1,748.00 3,801.90	23.30 1,864.00 4,054.20	24.76 1,980.80 4,308.24	26.22 2,097.60 4,562.28		PETERSON FORMULA 1/			
93-83751	SAME AS ABOVE
93-83752	SAME AS ABOVE
93-83754	NEW HOURLY	18.63	19.96	21.29	22.62	23.95	PETERSON FORMULA 1/
	BIWEEKLY	1,490.40	1,596.80	1,703.20	1,809.60	1,916.00	
	MONTHLY	3,241.62	3,473.04	3,704.46	3,935.88	4,167.30	
**
A 93-37103	NEW HOURLY	20.51	21.65	22.86	24.13	25.48
	BIWEEKLY	1,640.80	1,732.00	1,828.80	1,930.40	2,038.40
	MONTHLY	3,568.74	3,767.10	3,977.64	4,198.62	4,433.52
"I- 111
Page:	70
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE - 10/01/2003	{ 1.050) X {CURRENT RATE)
(B)-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS DDRNO
PAY RATE
STEP-1 STEP-2 STEP-3 STEP-4 STEP-5
STEP-6
STEP-7 STEP-8 STEP-9
STEP-10
NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY
33.315	35.175	Additional 2.5% of above rate
2,665.20	2,814.00	
5,796.87	6,120.44	
B 93-33006 NEW HOURLY 25.23 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 25.861 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 26.507 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY 94-33205 SAME AS ABOVE
MACHINIST 17/	— 3763
A 93-37141 NEW HOURLY 29.67 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 30.412 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 31.172 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY
31.36
2,508.80
5,456.64
32.144	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
2,571.52
5,593.06
32.948	Additional 2.5% of above rate
2,635.84
5,732.89
36.86
2,948.80
6,413.64
37.781
3,022.48
6,573.98
38.726
3,098.08
6,738.33
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
Additional 2.5% of above rate
B 93-37146	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.63
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.346
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	30.079
94-37009	SAME AS ABOVE	
35.58 .
2,846.40
6,190.92
36.469	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
2,917.52
6,345.69
37.381	Additional 2.5% of above rate
2,990.48
6,504.33
••■III- fill.
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE - 10/01/2002 ( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8)-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
Page:	71
IReport ID; HR6017P1-03
Run Date; 02/20/2002
CLASS DDRNO
***** ********
PAY RATS ********
STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
* * * ** it *	****** * *	********	* * * * ** **	* **** * * *	***** ** *	***** ** *	* * * * * ** *	* * ******	********
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.265				33.876 2,710.08 5,894.47		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.947				34.723 2,777.84 6,041.83		Additional 2.5% of above rate
MINER 2/17/		-- 3404	* *	* *	* ★ *	* * *	*	********
23-34003	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	22.54				28.01 2,240.80 4,873.74		
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.104				28.710 2,296.80 4,995.58		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.681				29.428 2,354.24 5,120.47		Additional 2.5% of above rate
MTNC CONSTR HLPR A 38-34109 15/ 45-34112	-- 3115 NEW HOURLY	20.51 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY SAME AS ABOVE		* *	* *		* * * 25.48 2,038.40 4,433.52	*	********
** B 15/ 93-31106	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	20.51 1,640.80 3,568.74	21.65 1,732.00 3,767.10	22.86 1,828.80 3,977.64	24.13 1,930.40 4,198.62	25.48 2,038.40 4,433.52		
c		
93-39109	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	20.51
25.48 2,038.40 4,433.52
D 82-31104	NEW HOURLY	18.32	19.34	20.42	21.56	22.76
	BIWEEKLY	1,465.60	1,547.20	1,633.60	1,724.80	1,820.80
	MONTHLY	3,187.68	3,365.16	3,553.08	3,751.44	3,960.24
82-31120 SAME AS ABOVE
62-33002 SAME AS ABOVE
Page:	72
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8)-OFER MTNC S SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
CLASS
DDRNO
A 93-37103
PAY RATE ********	STEP-1 ********	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6 ******** ********	STEP-7
NEW HOURLY	21.53	22.73	24.00	25.34	26.75	
BIWEEKLY	1,722.40	1,818.40	1,920.00	2,027.20	2,140.00	
MONTHLY	3,746.22	3,955.02	4,176.00	4,409.16	4,654.50	
STEP-8
STEP-9
STEP-10
93-83750	NEW HOURLY	21.41	22.94	24.47	2 6.00	27.53	PETERSON FORMULA 1/
	BIWEEKLY	1,712.00	1, 035.20	1,957.60	2,000.00	2,202.40	
	MONTHLY	3,725.34	3,991.56	4,257.78	4,524.00	4,790.22	
93-83751 SAME AS ABOVE
93-83752 SAME AS ABOVE
93-83754	NEW HOURLY	19.56	20.96	22.35	23.75	25.15	PETERSON FORMULA 1/
	BIWEEKLY	1,564.80	1,676.80	1,788.00	1,900.00	2,012.00	
	MONTHLY	3,403.44	3,647.04	3,888.90	4,132.50	4,376.10	
B 91-37170	NEW HOURLY	19,29	20.37	21.51	22.71	23.98	
	BIWEEKLY	1,543.20	1, 629.60	1,720.80	1,816.80	1,918.40	
	MONTHLY	3,356.46	3,544.38	3,742.74	3,951.54	4,172.52	
	93-37100	SAME AS ABOVE										
	94-34006	SAME AS ABOVE										
MECHANICAL REPAIRER			— 3773	* *	* *	* * *	* * * ,		* * * *	e	*	*	*
	93-37137	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	22.17				27.56 2,204.80 4,795.44					
METER	READER A 91-16146	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	— 1611 22.01 1,824.00 3,968.94	24.08 1,926.40 4,189.92	25.42 2,033.60 4,423.08	26.84 2,147.20 4,670.16	28.34 2,267.20 4,931.16				*	*
	B 91-16045	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.57 1,725.60 3,753.18	22.77 1,821.60 3,961.98	24.04 1, 923.20 4,182.96	25.38 2,030.40 4,416.12	26.80 2,144.00 4,663.20					
* *	C 91-16041	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.00 1,680.00 3,654.00	22.17 1,773.60 3,857.58	23.41 1,872.80 4,073.34	24.72 1,977.60 4,301.28	26.10 2,088.00 4,541.40					
• ■•III- —H11
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03 Run Date: 09/20/2002	COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT		Page:	73
	EFFDATE = 10/01/2002 (8)-OPER	( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE) MTNC A SRVC UNIT {IBEW)		
CLASS DDRNO PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6 STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	step-io
***** ******** ********	******** ******** ******** ********	r ********	********	♦wit##*-**	**♦*♦**#	' ♦*♦**♦*♦	********
PIPEFITTER 2/17/ 93-34100 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	-- 3433	*	*	*	*	*	* 26.12 26.773 27.442	32.45 2,596.00 5,646.30 33.261	Plus 2.5% of base 2,660.88 5,787.46 34.093	Additional 2.5% of 2,727.44 5,932.15	pay for DDR above rate	* *
PLUMBER 2/17/	-- 3443	****** 93-34005 NEW HOURLY	26.12 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	26.773 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 27.442 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY 94-34104 SAME AS ABOVE		32.45 2,596.00 5,646.30 33.261	Plus 2.5% of base 2,660.88 5,787.46 34.093	Additional 2.5% of 2,727.44 5,932.15	* * * pay for DDR above rate	* *
POWER SHOVEL OPERATOR 2/ A	“ 93-35140 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	-- 355B	****** 26.60	********** 33.05 2,644.00	. 5,750.70	* * *	♦ ♦
B		
93-35139	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY	26.12
MONTHLY
PROTECTIVE COATING WORKER 2/17/-- 3463
93-34113 NEW HOURLY 23.01 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY
NEW HOURLY 23.585 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY
32.45
2,596.00
5,646.30
28.58 2,286.40 4,972.92
29.294 2,343.52 5,097.24
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
Page:	74
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE - 10/01/2003 { 1.050) X {CURRENT RATE)
(B)-OPER MTNC t SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
CLASS	DDRNO ********	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4 ********	STEP-5	STEP-6 ********	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9 ********	STEP-10 ********
	c 93-39109	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.53			26.75 2,140.00 4,654.50				
D 82-31104	NEW HOURLY	19.24	20.31	21.44	22.64	23.90
	BIWEEKLY	1,539.20	1,624.80	1,715.20	1,811.20	1,912.00
	MONTHLY	3,347.76	3,533.94	3,730.56	3,939.36	4,158.60
82-31120	SAME AS ABOVE
82-33002	SAME AS ABOVE
82-37101	SAME AS ABOVE
93-31127	SAME AS ABOVE
93-39108	SAME AS ABOVE
94-31102 OFC EQPT & MCHN	SAME AS ABOVE RPRR	-- 3414
93-34104 NEW HOURLY 24.16 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY
PAINTER 2/17/	— 3423
A 94-34107 NEW HOURLY 26.04 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 27.511 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 28.199 ■	BIWEEKLY
MONTHLY
30.02
2,401.60
5,223.48
33.35
2,668.00
5,802.90
34.184
2,734.72
5,947.97
35.038
2,803.04
6,096.67
Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
Additional 2,5% of above rate
B 82-34002	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	. 24.81
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.430
30.82	
2,465.60	
5,362.68	
31.591	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
2,527.28	
5,496.75	
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE • 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8)-OPER MTNC i SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
Page:	75
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 09/20/2002
CLASS *****	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7 STEP-6 STEP-9		STEP-10
								********	*****1	t**	********	
		NEW HOURLY	20.S02				25.845	Additional 2*5%	of above rate	
		BIWEEKLY					2,067.60			
		MONTHLY					4,497.10			
SANDBLAST OPERATOR 2/			-- 3118	« *	* *	* * *	* * * ★ *	* * * *	* * *	* *
	93-31113	NEW HOURLY	18.09	19.10	20.16	21.28	22.47			
		BIWEEKLY	1,447.20	1,528.00	1,612.80	1,702.40	1,797.60			
		MONTHLY	3,147.66	3,323.40	3,507.84	3,702.72	3,909.78			
SENIOR BATTERY REPAIRER	-- 3724	* •	* *	* * *	*	it	★	*	*	* * ♦		*	*	*	*
45-37121 NEW HOURLY	24.48 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY 45-37154 SAME AS ABOVE SENIOR CONSTRUCTION INSPECTOR -- 7294	* *	* *	*■ * *	30.41 2,432.80 5,291.34 * it t	*	*	* *	♦	*	*	*	*
94-72098	NEW HOURLY	26.76	28.25 BIWEEKLY	2,140.60	2,260.00 MONTHLY	4,656.24	4,915.50 SENIOR ELECTRICAL MECHANIC 13/17/-- 3834 *	*		29.83 2,386.40 5,190.42 * *	31.49 2,519.20 5,479.26 * * *	33.25 2,660.00 5,785.50 * * *	*	*	* *	*	*	*	*	*
93-38108 NEW HOURLY	29.96 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY 30.709 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY	31.477 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY 94-38062 SAME AS ABOVE SENIOR ELECTRICAL TESTER	-- 7515	* *	it	a	* * *	37.22 2,977.60 6,476.28 38.151 3,052.08 6,638.19 39.104 3,128.32 6,804.14	*	*	Plus 2,5% Additional * *	of 2 *	base tS% of ♦	pay for above * *		DDR rate *
A 94-75323 NEW HOURLY	30.84 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY n* B 94-75439 NEW HOURLY	30.17 BIWEEKLY MONTHLY			36.30 2,904.00 6,316.20 35.51 2,840.80 6,178.74	38.32 3,065.60 6,667.68 37.49 2,999.20 6,523.26								
.Hu
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03 Run Date: 07/09/2003				COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT EFFDATE - 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE) (81-OPER MTNC S SRVC UNIT (IBEW)						Page:	76
CLASS	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1P	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4 ♦ ★**■**★*	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
PROTECTIVE COATING WORKER 2/17/	34e3				l	*	* *	* * *	*	K	*	* * *	* * * * *	♦ *
	93-34113	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.16				30.02 2,401.60 5,223.48				
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.764 25.383				30.771 2,461.68 5,354.07 31.540 2,523.20 5,487.92		Plus 2.5% Additional	of base pay for DDR 2.5% of above rate	
REINFORCING STEEL WORKER 2/17/ - 3483				*	*■ * .	* * *	+ * 1	r	*	*	* * *	* * * * *	r	*
	93-34107	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.74				29.50 2,360.00 5,133.00				
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.334				30.238 2,419.04 5,261.33		Plus 2,5%	of base pay for DDR	
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.942				30.993 2,479.44 5,392.86		Additional	2.5% of above rate	
REPROGRAPHICS OPERATOR A 91-14003 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY			— 3162 22.10 1,768.00 3,845.40	23.33 1,866.40 4,059.42	24.63 1,970.40 4,285.62	■k	Jr	+ 26.00 2,080.00 4,524.00	27.45 2,196.00 4,776.30		* * *		
	B 94-14062	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	20.23 1,618.40 3,520.02	21.36 1,708.80 3,716.64	22.55 1,804.00 3, 923.70	23.81 1, 904.80 4,142.94	25.14 2,011.20 4,374.36				
*• *	C 94-14105	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	19.15 1,532.00 3,332.10	20.22 1,617.60 3,518.28	21.35 1,708.00 3,714.90	22.54 1,803.20 3,921.96	23.60 1,904.00 4,141.20				
**	D 94-14053	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	17.92 1,433.60 3,118.08	18.92 1,513.60 3,292.08	19.97 1,597.60 3,474.78	21.08 1,686.40 3,667.92	22.26 1,780.80 3,873.24				
<111
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE * 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE)
(0)-OPER MTNC t SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
Page:	77
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 09/20/2002
CLASS	DDRNO ***** ********	PAY RATE	STEP-1 ******** ********		STEP-2 ********	STEP-3 ********	STEP-4 ********	STEP-5 ********* *	STEP-6 ********	STEP-7	STEP-0	STEP-9	STEP-10 ******** ******** ******** ********
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.075				34.881 2,790.48 6,069.25		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	2B.777				35.753 2,860.24 6,220.98		Additional 2.5% of above rate
** B 93-34001	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.13				31.22 2,497.60 5,432.28		
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.758				32.001 2,560.08 5,568.09		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.402				32.801 2,624.00 5,707.29		Additional 2.5% of above rate
94-34109	SAME AS ABOVE							
94-34110	SAME AS ABOVE							
SENIOR PLUMBER	12/	■	-- 3444	* *	* *	* * *	* *	* * *	*********
93-34106	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.99				34.78 2,702.40 6,051.72		
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	2B.69O				35.649 2,851.92 6,203.01		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.407				36.541 2,923.28 6,350.09		Additional 2.5% of above rate
94-34101	SAME AS ABOVE							
SENIOR ROOFER 17/	-		-- 3477	* *	3* '	*	★ * ★	* *	* * *	*********
9S-34771	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.48				26.68 2,134.40 4,642.32		
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	22.017				27.347 2,167.76 4,758.38		Plus 2*5% of base pay for DDR
Page:	78
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8)-OPER MTNC 4 SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS	DDRNO UmK * Hr Hr »*'*■*■)(***	PAY KATE ******** *	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
SENIOR ELECTRICAL TESTER A 94-75323 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		— 7515 32.39	* +	* *	38.12 3,049.60 6, 632.88	40.25 3,220.00 7,003.50	* *	* *	* * *	* *
* * B 94-75439	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	31.68			37.29 2,983.20 6,488.46	39.37 3,149.60 6,850.38				
C 94-75330	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.63 2,290.40 4,981.62	30.23 2,418.40 5,260.02	31.92 2,553.60 5, 554.08	33.70 2,696.00 5,863.80	35.58 2,846.40 6,190.92				
SENIOR EQUIPMENT A 93-37011	MECHANIC 17/ NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	— 3712 26.76				33.25 2,660.00 5,785.50				
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.429				34.081 2,726.48 5,930.14	Plus 2.5%	of base	pay for DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.115				34.933 2,794.64 6,078.39	Additional	2.5% of	above rate	
* B 93-37107	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.46				32.88 2,630.40 5,721.12				
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.121				33.702 2,696.16 5,864.15	Plus 2.5%	of base	pay for DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.800				34.545 2,763.60 6,010.75	Additional	2.5% of	above rate	
SENIOR GARDENER A 93-31117	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	-- 3143 22.29	+ *	- * *	26.22 2,097.60 4,562.28	+	4	*	4 27.68 2,214.40 4,816.32	* *	* *	* * *	* *

COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE)
(S)-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
Page:	79
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 05/20/2002
CLASS	DDRNO ***** ******** D 91-16052		PAY RATE ******** NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	STEP-1 ******** 23.79 1,903.20 4,139.46	STEP-2 25.12 2,009.60 4,370.89	STEP-3 26.52 2,121.60 4,614.48	STEP-4 28.00 2,240.00 4,972.00	STEP-5 29.56 2,364.80 5,143.44	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9 ******** ******** ********	STEP*10
	* * E 91-16011	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.23 1,059.40 4,042.02	24.53 1,962.40 4,266.22	25.90 2,072.00 4,506.60	27.34 2,187.20 4,757.16	20.86 2,308.80 5,021.64			
	* * F 91-16051	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	22.74 1,619.20 3,956.76	24.01 1,920.80 4,177.74	25.35 2,028.00 4,410.90	26.76 2,140.80 4,656.24	28.25 2,260.00 4,915.50			
SR	COMMUNIC CBL	WKR 17/	-- 3801	* *	* *	* * *	* *	♦ * *	*******	* *
	94-38123	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.96				37.22 2,977.60 6,476.28			
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	30.709				38.151 3,052.0B 6,638.19		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR	
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	31.477				39.104 3,128.32 6,804.14		Additional 2.5% of above rate	
SR	COMMUNIC ELIN 17/		-- 3638	* *	* *	* * *	* *	* * *	*******	* •
	82-36128	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	30,76				38.22 3,057.60 6,650.28			
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	31.529				39.176 3,134.08 6,816.54		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR	
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	32.317				40.155 3,212.40 6,986.95		Additional 2.5% of above rate	
	94-36127	SAME AS ABOVE								
SR	CUSTODIAL SRVCS ATDT		-- 3157	* *	* *	* * *	* *	* ♦ *	*******	*	ik
	91-31011	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	17.31			20.38 1,630.40 3,546.12	21.52 1,721.60 3,744.48			
T
• • • III • fl 11
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03 Run Date: 07/09/2003		COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT EFFDATE - 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE) (8)-OPER MTNC i SRVC UNIT (IBEW)					Page:	80
CLASS DDRNO PAY RATE ***** ******** ********	STEP-1	STEP-2 **■*■*»*»»	STEP-3	STEP-4 * *******	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
SENIOR ROOFER 17/	— 3477	* *	*	t	* * *	* *	*******	* * * * *
95-34771 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.69				29.42 2,353.60 5,119.08		
NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.282				30.156 2,412.48 5,247.06	Plus 2.5% of base	pay for DDR
NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.889				30.909 2,472.72 5,378.24	Additional 2.5% of	above rate
SHEET METAL WORKER 2/17/	— 3775	4	*	* *	* * ♦	* *	*******	* * * * *
93-37118 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.43				34.07 2,725.60 5,928.18		
NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.116				34.922 2,793.76 6,076.38	Plus 2.5% of base	pay for DDR
NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.819				35,795 2,863.60 6,228.29	Additional 2.5% of	above rate
SIGN PAINTER 2/1/7/	-- 3428	* ♦	* *	* * *	* *	*******	* * * * *
93-34103 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.16				30.02 2,401.60 5,223.48		
NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.764				30.771 2,461.68 5,354.07	Plus 2.5% of base	pay for DDR
NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.383				31.540 2,523.20 5,487.92	Additional 2.5% of	above rate
SR COML FLD REPTV A	7/ 91-16012 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	— 1602 26.56 2,124.80 4,621.44	28,04 2,243.20 4,878.96	29.60 2,368.00 5,150.40	31.25 2,500.00 5,437.50	* * 32.99 2,639.20 5,740.26	*******	
* *							
B 91-16053 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.06 2,084.80 4,534.44	27.51 2,200.80 4,786.74	29.04 2,323.20 5,052.96	30.66 2,452.80 5,334.84	32.37 2,589.60 5,632.38		
Page; Bl
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X {CURRENT RATE)
(8J-0PER MTNC & SRVC UNIT {IBEW)
IReport ID; HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 09/20/2002
CLASS DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5 STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
*****	********	********	********	********	********	********	********	********	********	********	********	********
94-18018	SAME AS ABOVE
94-18134	SAME AS ABOVE
B
91-18017	NEW HOURLY	21.04	22.21	23.45	24.76	26.14
	BIWEEKLY	1,683.20	1,776.80	1,876.00	1,980.80	2,091.20
	MONTHLY	3,660.96	3,864.54	4,080.30	4,308.24	4,548.36
93-18011	SAME	AS	ABOVE
93-18175	SAME	AS	ABOVE
94-18016	SAME	AS	ABOVE
C
91-18114	NEW HOURLY	20.14	21.26	22.45	23.70	25.02
	BIWEEKLY	1,611.20	1,700.80	1,796.00	1,896.00	2,001.60
	MONTHLY	3,504.36	3,699.24	3,906.30	4,123.80	4,353.48
93-18176 SAME AS ABOVE
94-18015 SAME AS ABOVE
D 94-18014	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	18.48 1,478.40 3,215.52	19.51 1,560.80 3,394.74	20.60 1,648.00 3,584.40	21.75 1,740*00 3,764*50	22.96 1,836.80 3,995.04					
E 93-18147	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	17.73 1,418.40 3,085.02	18.72 1,497.60 3,257.28	19.76 1,580.80 3,438.24	20.Se 1,668.80 3,628.64	22.02 1,761.60 3,831.48					
STRUCTURAL STEEL	FABRICATOR	2/17/-- 3793 *	*		* *	* ♦ *	* * *	4	*****	• *	* *	*
93-37007	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.54				31.73 2,538.40 5,521.02					
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.179				32.523 2,601.84 5,659.05		Plus 2.5% of base	pay for	DDR	
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.833				33.336 2,666.88 5,800.53		Additional 2.5% of	above	rate	
Page:	82
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X {CURRENT RATE)
' (S)-OPER MTNC £ SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS DDRNO PAY RATE STEP-1 STEP-2 STEP-3 STEP-4 STEP-5 STEP-6 STEP-7 STEP-8 STEP-9 STEP-10 ***** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ******** ********
SR CUSTODIAL SRVCS ATDT	-		- 3157	*	1	k	*	******	
91-31011	NEW HOURLY	18.20			21.41	22.60
	BIWEEKLY				1,712.80	1,808.00
	MONTHLY				3,725.34	3,932.40
93-31020	SAME AS ABOVE					
94-31040	SAME AS ABOVE					
SR	DU PL MCHN OPR A 94-14059	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	— 1500 22.10 1,768.00 3,845.40	* * 23.33 1,866.40 4,059.42	24.63 1,970.40 4,285.62	* * * 26.00 2,080.00 4,524.00	27.45 2,196.00 4,776.30	*		
	B 94-14057	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	20.23 1,618.40 3,520.02	21.36 1,708.80 3,716.64	22.55 1,804.00 3, 923,70	23.81 1,904.80 4,142.94	25.14 2,011.20 4,374.36			
SR	HVY DTY EQPT A 93-37195	MCHC 11/ NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	— 3745 28.45	* *	* *	* * *	* * * 35.35 2,828.00 6,150.90	*	*******	* *
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.161				36.234 2,898.72 6,304.67		Plus 2.5% of base pay for	DDR
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	29.890				37.140 2,971.20 6,462.29		Additional 2.5% of above	rate
	B 93-37108	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.34				33.96 2,716.80 5,909.04			
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.024				34.809 2,784.72 6,056.77		Plus 2.5% of base pay for	DDR
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.724				35.679 2,854.32 6,208.19		Additional 2.5% of above	rate
•p III- fl II .
Page:	83
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE - 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8)-0PER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 09/20/2002
CLASS	DDRNO UPHOLSTERER	PAY RATE ********	STEP-1 ******** -- 3723	STEP-2 ★	4	STEP-3 ******** * *	STEP-4 ******** * * *	STEP-5 ******** * *	STEP-6	STEP-7 ******** ********		STEP-6 STEP-9 *****	STEP-10 * *
93-37032	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.53				26*75 2,140*00 4,654.50				
WAREHOUSE & TOOLROOM WORKER A 91-18131 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		-- 1832 19.56	* *	* *	23.02 1,841.60 4,005.48	* * 24*30 1,944.00 4,228*20	*	* * * *	*****	* *
93-18014	SAME AS ABOVE									
94-18127	SAME AS ABOVE									
** B 91-18118	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	18.37 1,469.60 3,196.38	19.39 1,551.20 3,373.86	20*47 1,537.60 3,561.78	21.61 1,728.80 3,760.14	22.81 1,824.80 3,968.94				
93-18177	SAME AS ABOVE									
94-18128	SAME AS ABOVE									
C
45-18001	NEW HOURLY	17.73	18.72	19.76	20.86	22.02
	BIWEEKLY	1,418.40	1,497.60	1,580.80	1,668.80	1,761.60
	MONTHLY	3,085.02	3,257.28	3,438.24	3,629.64	3,831.48
93-18173 SAME AS ABOVE
94-18017 SAME AS ABOVE
D 72-18112	NEW HOURLY	17.31	18.28	19.30	20.38	21.52
	BIWEEKLY	1,384.80	1,462.40	1,544.00	1,630.40	1,721.60
	MONTHLY	3,011.94	3,180.72	3,358.20	3,546.12	3,744.48
72-18117 72-18135	SAME AS ABOVE SAME AS ABOVE
82-18106	SAME AS ABOVE
93-18307	SAME AS ABOVE
94-18111	SAME AS ABOVE
I HI- -4 H
Page:	84
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE = 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(0)-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date; 07/09/2003
CLASS	DDRNO * -* * * * *	PAY RATE ********	jr	STEP-1	STEP-2 ********	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6 ********	STEP-7 «»**»»*♦	STEP-8	STEP-9		STEP-10 ********
										******** *****	* **	
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.178				35.017 2,801.36 6,093.02		Additional	2.5% of above	rate	
TIRE	REPAIRER 17/ 93-37104 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY		— 3727 22.49	*	-k	* *	* * *	* * 27.94 2,235.20 4,861.56	* * *	* *	* * * *	*	★ *
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.052				26.639 2,291.12 4,983.10		Plus 2.5%	of base pay for	DDR	
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.629				29.354 2,348.32 5,107.68		Additional	2.5% of above	rate	
TREE	SURGEON 14/17/	—		3114	* * *	■* *	* * *		* * ,	, * *	* + * *	+	*
	94-31033	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.22 1,937.60 4,214.28	25.57 2,045.60 4,449.18	27.00 2,160.00 4,698.00	28.51 2,280.80 4,960.74	30.10 2,408.00 5,237.40					
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.826 1,986.08 4,319.64	26.209 2,096.72 4,560.41	27.675 2,214.00 4,815.45	29.223 2,337.84 5,084.76	30.853 2,468.24 5,368.34		Plus 2.5%	of base pay for	DDR	
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.446 2,035.68 4,427.63	26.864 2,149.12 4,674.42	28.367 2,269.36 4,935.84	29.953 2,396.24 5,211.88	31.624 2,529.92 5,502.55		Additional	2.5% of above	rate	
TREE	SURGEON ASSISTANT 14/		— 3151	* +	* *	* * *	* *	* * *	*	4	* * * *	*	* *
	94-31034	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	18.10 1,448.00 3,149.40	19.11 1,528.80 3,325.14	20.18 1,614.40 3,511.32	21.31 1,704.80 3,707.94	22.50 1,800.00 3,915.00					
TRUCK	: OPERATOR		— 3583	* +	*	k	* * *	* *	* * *	* *	♦ * * *	*	* *
	93-35159	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.00			24.72 1, 977.60 4,301.28	26.10 2,088.00 4,541.40					
UG DISTRBN CONSTR MCHC A 94-38310 NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY			— 3812 24.30			28.59 2,287.20 4,974.66	30.18 2,414.40 5,251.32		* *			
**	B 94-38116	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	21.97 1,757.60 3,822.78	23.19 1,855.20 4,035,06	24.48 1,958.40 4,259,52	25.84 2,067.20 4,496.16	27.28 2,182.40 4,746.72					
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE - 10/01/2002	1 1.040} X (CURRENT RATE}
(8}-OPER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
Page:	85
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 09/20/2002
CLASS	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10
*****	********	********	********	********	********	W it * ♦ ****	********	********	******** ******** ******** ********
		NEW HOURLY	23.093			27.180	28.693		Additional 2.5% of above rate
		BIWEEKLY				2,174.40	2,295.44		
		MONTHLY				4,729.26	4,992.51		
	E 93-39119	NEW HOURLY	21.4B	22.68	23.94	25.27	26.68		
		BIWEEKLY	1,718.40	1,814.40	1,915.20	2,021.60	2,134.40		
		MONTHLY	3,737.52	3,946.32	4,165.56	4,396.98	4,642.32		
		NEW HOURLY	22.017	23.247	24.539	25.902	27.347		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
		BIWEEKLY	1,761.36	1,859.76	1,963.12	2,072.16	2,187.76		
		MONTHLY	3,830.96	4,044.98	4,269.70	4,506.90	4,758.38		
		NEW HOURLY	22.567	23.628	25.152	26.549	28.031		Additional 2.5% of above rate
		BIWEEKLY	1,805.36	1,906.24	2,012.16	2,123.92	2,242.48		
		MONTHLY	3,926.73	4,146.10	4,376.44	4,619.57	4,877.34		
	93-3913B	SAME AS ABOVE							
* *	F 93-39010	NEW HOURLY	20.51	21.65	22.86	24.13	25.48		
		BIWEEKLY	1,640.80	1,732.00	1,828.80	1,930.40	2,038.40		
		MONTHLY	3,568.74	3,767.10	3,977.64	4,198.62	4,433.52		
		NEW HOURLY	21.023	22.191	23.431	24.733	26.117		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
		BIWEEKLY	1,681.64	1,775.28	1,874.48	1,978.64	2,089.36		
		MONTHLY	3,657.96	3,861.28	4,077.08	4,303.59	4,544.36		
		NEW HOURLY	21.548	22.746	24.017	25.352	26.770		Additional 2.5% of above rate
		BIWEEKLY	1,723.84	1,819.68	1,921.36	2,028.16	2,141.60		
		MONTHLY	3,749.41	3,957.81	4,179.01	4,411,18	4,657.97		
WATER	UTILITY WORKER 17/ A		-- 3912	* *	* *	* * *	* *	* * *	ft-******-**
	93-39126	NEW HOURLY	24.41			28.73	30.33		
		BIWEEKLY				2,298.40	2,426.40		
		MONTHLY				4,999.02	5,277.42		
		NEW HOURLY	25.020			29.448	31,088		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
		BIWEEKLY				2,355.84	2,487.04		
		MONTHLY				5,124.00	5,409.36		
		NEW HOURLY	25.646			3O.1B4	31.865		Additional 2.5% of above rate
		BIWEEKLY				2,414.72	2,549.20		
		MONTHLY				5,252.10	5,544.59		
Page:	86
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE - 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(S)-OPER MTNC i SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
CLASS ♦ mto WATER	DDRNO SERVICE A 93-39121	PAY RATE WORKER NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	STEP-1 — 3931 26.42 2,113.60 4,597.08	STEP-2 27.89 2,231.20 4,852.86	STEP-3 29.45 2,356.00 5,124.30	STEP-4 ******** 31.09 2,487.20 5,409.66	STEP-5	STEP-6 32.82 2,625.60 5,710.68	STEP-7 ********	STEP-8 ********	STEP-9	STEP-10
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.081 2,166.46 4,712.01	28.587 2,286.96 4,974.10	30.186 2,414.88 5,252.41	31.867 2,549.36 5,544.90	33.641 2,691.28 5,853.45	Plus 2.5%	of base	pay for DDR
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.758 2,220.64 4,829.81	29.302 2,344.16 5,090.53	30.941 2,475.28 5,383.72	32.664 2,613.12 5,683.52	34.482 2,756.56 5, 999.79	Additional	2.5% of	above rate
B 93-39137	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.30			28.59 2,287.20 4,974.66	30,18 2,414.40 5,251.32		
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.908			29.305 2,344.40 5,099.03	30.934 2,474.72 5,382.60	Plus 2.5% of base	pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.530			30.037 2,402.96 5,226.51	31.708 2, 536.64 5,517.17	Additional 2.5% of	above rate
* c 93-39120	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.68 1,894,40 4,120.32	25.00 2,000.00 4,350.00	26.39 2,111.20 4,591.86	27.86 2,228.80 4,847.64	29.41 2,352.80 5,117.34		
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.272 1,941.76 4,223.33	25.625 2,050.00 4,458.75	27.050 2,164.00 4,706.66	28.556 2,284.48 4,968.83	30.145 2,411.60 5,245.27	Plus 2.5% of base	pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	24.879 1,990.32 4,328.91	26.266 2,101.28 4,570.22	27.726 2,218.08 4,824.33	29.270 2,341.60 5,093.05	30.899 2,471.92 5,376.40	Additional 2.5% of	above rate
D 93-39135	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.09	27.18 2,174.40 4,729.32	20.70 2,296.00 4,993.80
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	23.667	27.859 2,228.72 4,847.55	29.418	Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR 2,353.44 5,118.65
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03 Run Date; 09/20/2002				COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT	Page:	87 EFFDATE - 10/01/2002	( 1.040) X (CURRENT RATE) (8J-0PER MTNC & SRVC UNIT (IBEW)			
CLASS *****	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	STEP-5	STEP-6 ********	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10 ******** ******** ******** ********
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.148		.	34.973 2,797.84 6,085.30		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
* *	B 18/ 93-39100	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.850 28.80		35.847 2,867.76 6,237.43 33.05 2,644.00 5,750.70		Additional 2.5% of above rate
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.265		33.876 2,710.08 5,894.47		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.947		34.723 2,777.84 6,041.83		Additional 2.5% of above rate
WELDER 2/17/ ” A 93-37149		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	-- 3796 26.78	* * * *	* . * * * * 33.27 2,661.60 5,788.98'	* * *	*********
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.449		34.102 2,728.16 5,933.70		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.136		34.954 2,796.32 6,082.04		Additional 2.5% of above rate
**	B 93-37008	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.47		32.90 2,632.00 5,724.60		
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.132		33.723 2,697.84 5,867.72		Plus 2.5% of base pay for DDR
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.810		34.566 2,765.28 6,014.41		Additional 2.5% of above rate
•	11 • •
Page:	88
COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT
EFFDATE - 10/01/2003	( 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE)
(8)-OPER MTNC 6 SRVC UNIT (IBEW)
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03
Run Date: 07/09/2003
CLASS	DDRNO	PAY RATE	STEP-1	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4 ********	STEP-5	STEP-6	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10 ******** ******** ********
	B 93-39002	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.11		29.55 2,364.00 5,141.70	31.20 2,496.00 5,426.00			
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	25.738		30.289 2,423.12 5,270.24	31.980 2,558.40 5, 564.52		Plus 2.5%	of base pay for DDR
		NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.381		31.046 2,483.68 5,402.00	32.779 2,622.32 5,703.63		Additional	2.5% of above rate
93-39026 SAME AS ABOVE
C 93-39023	NEW HOURLY	24.30	25.65	27.08	28.59	30.18		
	BIWEEKLY	1,944.00	2,052.00	2,166.40	2,287.20	2,414.40		
	MONTHLY	4,228.20	4,463.10	4,711.92	4, 974.66	5,251.32		
	NEW HOURLY	24.908	26.291	27.757	29.305	30.934	Plus 2.5% of base pay for	DDR
	BIWEEKLY	1,992.64	2,103.28	2,220.56	2,344.40	2,474.72		
	MONTHLY	4,333.91	4,57 4.68	4,829.72	5,099.03	5,382.60		
	NEW HOURLY	25.530	26.949	28.451	30.037	31.708	Additional 2.5% of above	rate
	BIWEEKLY	2,042.40	2,155.92	2,276.08	2,402.96	2,536.64		
	MONTHLY	4,442.26	4,689.05	4,950.46	5,226.51	5,517.17		
D 42-39301	NEW HOURLY	22.54	23.80	25.13	26.53	28.01		
	BIWEEKLY	1,803.20	1,904.00	2,010.40	2,122.40	2,240.80		
	MONTHLY	3,921.96	4,141.20	4,372.62	4,616.22	4,873.74		
	NEW HOURLY	23.104	24.395	25.758	27.193	28.710	Plus 2.5% of base pay for	DDR
	BIWEEKLY	1, 848.32	1,951.60	2,060.64	2,175.44	2,296.80		
	MONTHLY	4,020.01	4,244.73	4,481.94	4,731.63	4,995.58		
	NEW HOURLY	23.681	25.005	26.402	27.873	29.428	Additional 2.5% of above	rate
	BIWEEKLY	1, 894.48	2,000.40	2,112.16	2,229.84	2,354.24		
	MONTHLY	4,120.51	4,350.85	4,593.99	4,849.92	5,120.47		
93-39130	SAME AS ABOVE							
WATERWORKS MECHANIC 17/		— 3984	* »	A	*	* * *	* * *	********	* *
A 18/								
93-39101	NEW HOURLY	28.84				35.83		
	BIWEEKLY					2,866.40		
	MONTHLY					6,234.42		
IReport ID: HR6017P1-03 Run Date: 07/09/2003			COST EFFDATE = 10/01/2003 (8J-0PER	OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT { 1.050) X (CURRENT RATE) . MTNC 5 SRVC UNIT (IBEW)					Page:	90
CLASS	DDRNO ***** ******** C 93-37139	PAY RATE ******** NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	STEP-1 27.34	STEP-2	STEP-3	STEP-4	*	STEP-5 33.96 2,716.80 5,909.04	STEP-6 ********	STEP-7	STEP-8	STEP-9	STEP-10 ******** ■* •* + + * *■ * *
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.024			34.809 2,704.72 6,056.77		Plus 2.5%	of base	pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28,724			35.679 2,054.32 6,208.19		Additional	2.5% of	above rate
* ★ D 93-37138	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	26.82			33.33 2,666.40 5,799.42				
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	27.491			34.163 2,733.04 5,944.41		Plus 2.5%	of base	pay for DDR
	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	28.178			35.017 2,801.36 6,093.02		Additional	2.5% of	above rate
94-37109	SAME AS ABOVE								
WINDOW CLEANER		— 3173	******	*	* *	* * ★	* *	* *	* * * * *
93-31139	NEW HOURLY BIWEEKLY MONTHLY	19.41	22. 1,827. 3,974.	84 20 16	24.11 1,928.80 4,195.14				
APPENDIX A-3
SALARY RANGES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2004
Effective October 1, 2004, salary ranges shall be increased by a percentage equal to the percentage increase in the CPI for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers as measured from August 2003 to August 2004 for U.S. City Average (1982-84=100); provided however, that if the CPI increases less than or equal to 5% the salary ranges shall be increased by 5%, and if the CPI increased by 6% or more, the salary ranges shall be increased by 6%.
89
OPERATING, MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE UNIT
FOOTNOTES:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Peterson Formula: This formula is the standard and agreed upon formula for compensating apprentices at the Department of Water and Power*
Annual rated positions only; daily-rated are in DWP Daily-Rated Building Trades Unit.
Seasonal positions are of limited duration with conditions listed on the duties description record for the position.
Hourly rated positions.
EDM Sign-up Bonus - Any employee in the class of Line Mechanic (Class Code 3883) or Cable Splicer (Class Code 3804) who prior to September 30, 1990 signed up for the Electrical Distribution Mechanic (EDM) training program shall, effective on the first day of the next payroll period following such sign-up, be paid at the EDM rate for each day worked. Such rate shall continue to be paid until the employee either 1) becomes an EDM, 2) declines EDM training or 3) fails to complete EDM training.
Any employees who declines to participate in or fails to complete EDM training while receiving such bonus shall immediately revert to the appropriate rate for the actual classification occupied and shall not again be eligible for this bonus until such time as the employee begins or re-enters the EDM training program.
No employee who has withdrawn from or failed to complete EDM training shall receive this bonus while not participating in the EDM training program.
a. Whenever an employee in the class of Heavy Duty Truck Operator (Class Code 3584) paid a the "A" level is assigned to operate a reel truck for overhead stringing operations, such employee shall be paid at the second premium level above the appropriate step rate for the class.
90
OPERATING, MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE UNIT	'
FOOTNOTES: (cont1d)
12.	Four employees in the class of Electric Distribution Mechanic (Class Code 3878), when assigned as a training instructor on DDRs Nos. 94-38020, 94-38117, 94-38200, or 94-38305 in the Power Distribution Business Unit, Safety and Training Business Group, shall be paid at the second premium level above each employee’s respective step rate.
13.	Two employees in the class of Senior Electrical Mechanic (Class Code 3834), when assigned as a training instructor in the Power Distribution Business Unit, Safety and Training Business Group, shall be paid at the second premium level above each employee's respective step rate.
14.	Employees in the class of Tree Surgeon (Code 3114) and Tree Surgeon Assistant (Code 3151), upon written proof of certification as an Arborist from the International Society of Arboriculture (ISA), shall be paid a 5.5% bonus above their respective step rate, effective at the start of the next pay period.
•	Employees shall be responsible for all examination fees, expenses for any study materials, and expenses for any continuing education credits necessary for recertification by ISA. The Department shall be responsible for paying the employee's annual ISA membership and recertification fees. Upon bonafide proof of payment, the Department shall promptly reimburse the employee for such expenses.
•	Employees must give immediate written notice whenever their certification is lost, expired, or renewed, and . will be returned to precertification pay until current certification is established.
15.	Effective June 1, 2002, while three Maintenance and Construction Helpers (MCHs), Class Code 3115, occupy Duties Description Record (DDR) No. 45-34112 or DDR No. 93-31106 and perform duties related to the handling and disposal of hazardous material at the Los Angeles Aqueduct Filtration Plant, they shall be compensated at the third premium level above the existing salary range prescribed for those DDRs.
92
19.	The class of Electric Distribution Mechanics, Working titles Senior Electric Distribution Mechanic (SEDM), DDR No. 94-38200; and Senior Cable Splicer (SCS), DDR No. 94-38305; when assigned additional supervisory responsibilities shall receive seven percent (7%) an . hour above normal compensation in accordance with Section 3.8(b), Pay Differential for Craft Leadman, DWP Working Rules. Whenever management determines that workloads require larger crews, two SEDM's and/or SCS's crews may be combined to form a larger crew of three or more journey-level craftsmen (excluding a cross-training Line Mechanic), thus creating the additional supervisory responsibility for the increased compensation described above.
20.	One person in a classification represented by IBEW, when designated to represent IBEW as the Administrator to the Joint Safety Institute (JSI), shall, while assigned to perform such JSI Administrator duties, be compensated at the fifth (5th) step of the “III" level Salary Range (DDR No. 95-52653) established for the class of Electrical Services Manager (Class Code 5265), enabling the individual to remain in the bargaining unit during such assignment while being compensated at the Electrical Services Manager III salary level. The provisions of this footnote shall be effective October 1, 2002
21.	One person in a classification represented by IBEW, when designated to represent IBEW as the Administrator to the Joint Training Institute (JTI) shall, while assigned to perform such JTI Administrator duties, be compensated at the fifth (5th) step of the "III" level Salary Range (DDR No. 95-52653) established for the class of Electrical Services Manager (Class Code 5265), enabling the individual to remain in the bargaining unit during such assignment while being compensated at the Electrical Services Manager III salary level. The provisions of this footnote shall be effective October 1, 2002.
94
APPENDIX B
CONTRACTING OUT
The parties agree to the following terms and conditions relative to the contracting out of bargaining unit work:
1)	The Department may contract out bargaining unit work without meeting and conferring, subject to Charter Section 126 and/or 385, et seq., and the provisions of this Agreement.
2)	Notwithstanding any provisions of this MOU to the contrary, the provisions of this Appendix are subject only to advisory arbitration with the exception of grievances raised under Article 35, Job Security, of this MOU.
3)	In lieu of the meet-and-confer process specified by the Employee Relations Ordinance, the parties agree to meet and discuss, in accordance with the procedure in paragraph 4, all contracts awarded by the Board of Water and Power Commissioners and multiple contracts let for the same service ■ in the same division which exceed a cumulative total of
$100,000 in a 12-month period, except those listed below:
a.	Contracts for expertise or contracts for services involving proprietary equipment.
b.	Contracts for rental equipment which includes operators.
c.	Contracts required because of bona fide emergency circumstances.
4)	The parties agree that the following expedited procedure shall replace the dispute resolution procedures of the Employee Relations Ordinance to resolve only those disputes arising out of the discussions occurring as a result of paragraph (3) above.
a.	The Department will notify the Union in a timely manner of all applicable proposed contracts.
b.	The Union may request to meet and discuss such contracts within five (5) working days of receipt of the contract. Failure of the Union to request a meeting within five (5) working days shall constitute a waiver of the Union's right to continue this process.
c.	Meeting(s), if requested, will be held within five (5) calendar days of notification by the Union of a desire to meet and discuss the contracts.
95
APPENDIX C
PARKING FEES AND SUBSIDIES
The parties agree that the following terms and conditions shall be applicable to employees who report to an AQMD qualifying location.
1)	Employees paying a parking fee who report to an AQMD location as their permanent reporting location shall receive a $25 per month parking (transportation) subsidy.
2)	Rotating shift employees are excluded from this agreement.
3)	Facility parking administrators shall set local rules for parking.
4)	Department Management shall set the rates for the DWP Vanpools.
5)	Any employee who drives his/her personal vehicle and occasionally parks at the JFB or other central locations shall be charged $5 per day to park, subject to applicable parking regulations. The rate will be $4 at non-central locations. Such employees will have an in-and-out privilege for any said paid parking day.
6)	Employees who pay monthly parking fees as members of a DWP vanpool or carpool will not be charged a daily parking fee when they drive their personal vehicle to work to accommodate scheduled overtime, unless this overtime condition exceeds five (5) days per month after which No. 5 applies.
7)	A $50 subsidy will be provided to any monthly transit rider who shows evidence upon demand of a monthly transit pass and who provides an affidavit to the John Ferraro Building parking coordinator of such transit use in commuting to work. Employees who normally commute by bicycle and who provide an affidavit of their daily bicycle riding and certification of this riding from their supervisor, will receive this subsidy also.
97
APPENDIX D
FOCUSED SEPARATION PROGRAM (FSP) of 1995 FOR IBEW-LOCAL 18-REPRESENTED EMPLOYEES
In no way shall Local 18's agreement to the FSP imply, infer or conclude that Local 18 concurs with or acquiesces to the inclusion of any classifications listed in Appendix A (of the Focused Separation Program Agreement) as excess positions.
1.	In consideration for Local 18's agreement, the Department has agreed to the following terms and conditions:
a.	The DWP shall maintain staffing of Electric Distribution Mechanic Trainees (EDMTs) that will result in forty (40) Electric Distribution Mechanics (EDMs) completing the program each contract year. At the current graduation rate, this represents a staffing level of ninety (90) EDMTs per contract year.
b.	The DWP shall maintain a core number of Electrical Craft Helpers (ECHs) at 310 in the Energy Distribution Business Unit. The parties shall determine a mutually acceptable method to facilitate 1014 transfer opportunities for Steam Plant Assistants to ECHs.
c.	Before any layoff is contemplated in the Clerical Bargaining Unit, every effort shall be made to reassign employees to vacancies within the DWP and City; and part-time exempt clerical positions shall be eliminated.
. d. As an alternative to contracting out, the DWP shall use at least ten percent (10%) overtime to meet maintenance and business needs.
e.	The DWP shall maintain staffing of Electrical Mechanic Trainees (EMTs) which would provide for the completion of ten (10) Electrical Mechanics each contract year.
f.	The DWP and Local 18 shall meet-and-confer for the purpose of facilitating a combined Electrical Repairer/Electrical Mechanic apprenticeship program.
2.	Joint Labor/Management Committees
Local 18 and DWP management agree to the establishment of Joint Labor/Management Committees to address issues of mutual interest.
99
APPENDIX E
ZONE PAY ADDENDUM
EMPLOYEES REASSIGNED TO WATER QUALITY AND DISTRIBUTION BUSINESS UNIT
Electrical Group
Senior Electrical Mechanic Supervisor	3836
Electrical Mechanic Supervisor	3835
Senior Electrical Mechanic	3834
Electrical Mechanic	3833
Instrument Mechanic	3843
Mechanical Helper "A"	3771
Waterworks Mechanic *B"	3984
Electrical Craft Helper nB"	3799
Mechanical Group
Waterworks Mechanic Supervisor "A"	3987
Waterworks Mechanic Supervisor "B"	3987
Waterworks Mechanic "A"	3984
Waterworks Mechanic "B"	3984
Mechanical Helper "A"	3771
Mechanical Helper "B"	3771
WATER QUALITY AND DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES LOCATED AT THE LOS ANGELES AQUEDUCT FILTRATION PLANT
Senior Electrical Mechanic	3834
Electrical Mechanic	3833
Instrument Mechanic	3843
Mechanical Helper "A"	3771
Waterworks Mechanic "B"	3984
Waterworks Mechanic Supervisor "B"	3987
TRUNK LINE CONSTRUCTION GROUP
Water Utility Supervisor	3976
Water Utility Worker	3912
Maintenance and Construction Helper	3115
Equipment Operator	3525
Power Shovel Operator	3558
Welder	3796
Maintenance Laborer	3112
Heavy Duty Truck Operator	3584
Protective Coating Worker	3463
101
APPENDIX F
TRAVEL PAYMENT FOR THE CLASSES OF EQUIPMENT OPERATOR, POWER SHOVEL OPERATOR, AND HEAVY DUTY TRUCK OPERATOR
This Appendix modifies the settlement agreements reached in Arbitration 593 (Gr. No. 8-63-86) and Arbitration 591 (Gr. No. 8-90-86) as follows:
1.	All Central Services Organization employees in the classes of Equipment Operator, Power Shovel Operator, and Heavy Duty Truck Operator, when temporarily reassigned from their permanent reporting location to another DWP reporting location, shall receive transportation and time to travel for a maximum period of two (2) workdays.
2.	In the event that employees in the above-mentioned classes are temporarily reassigned to a new location, beginning the third day of the temporary reassignment, said employees will be compensated in accordance with Article 18.1(b) of the Operating, Maintenance and Service Unit MOU for the use of their personal vehicles. Such mileage will be calculated from an employee'1 s permanent reporting location and return therefrom until such time as the temporary reassignment ends.
3.	The parties agree that this settlement excludes employees in the above-named classes from the provisions of Articles 14(a)(2), 14(c)(1), 14(c)(2), and 14(c)(4) of the Operating, Maintenance and Service Unit MOU when they are subject to the temporary reassignment provisions of this Appendix.
. 4. Management will consider hardship reassignment on an individual basis.
EXCEPTIONS: Employees in the above-named classes who are temporarily reassigned to a reporting location outside the District (Metro or Valley) in which their permanent reporting location is situated, shall receive transportation and time to travel from the permanent reporting location to the temporary location for the duration of the temporary assignment.
Employees in the above-named classes who are either successful bidders, or who are assigned to fill positions which had no bidder, shall not receive transportation or travel time.
102
APPENDIX G
	LONGEVITY PREMIUM FOR CERTAIN JOURNEY CRAFT CLASSIFICATIONS Operating, Maintenance and Service Unit
Class Code 377 4 '	3704 3707 3721 3725 3733 '	3343 3344 3353 3351 3802 3686 3878 5224 3841 3853 3863 3866 3711 3743 3560 3842 3393 3763 3451 3760 3404 3423 3433 3443 3463 3483 3476 3834 3712 3424 t	344 4 3477 ..	3775 3428 3801 3638 3745 3793 3727 3114 3931 3912 3984 3796	Class Title Air Conditioning Mechanic Auto Body Builder and Repairer Auto Electrician Auto Painter Battery Technician Blacksmith Cabinet Maker Carpenter Cement Finisher Cement Finisher Worker Communications Cable Worker Communications Electrician Electric Distribution Mechanic Electric Station Operator	: Electrical Mechanic Electrical Repairer Electrician Elevator Mechanic Equipment Mechanic Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic Helicopter Pilot	■ Instrument Repairer Locksmith Machinist Masonry Worker Millwright Miner	: Painter Pipefitter Plumber	; Protective Coating Worker	' Reinforcing Steel Worker	: Roofer Senior Electrical Mechanic Senior Equipment Mechanic Senior Painter Senior Plumber Senior Roofer	• Sheet Metal Worker Sign Painter	■= Sr. Communications Cable	Worker	f Sr. Communications Electrician Sr. Heavy Duty Equipment Mechanic	j Structural Steel Fabricator	: Tire Repairer Tree Surgeon	: Water Service Worker	. Water Utility Worker Waterworks Mechanic Welder	:
-103-
APPENDIX H
COMMERCIAL LICENSE FOR
HEAVY DUTY EQUIPMENT MECHANICS CLASS CODE 3743)
AND EQUIPMENT MECHANICS (CLASS CODE 3711)
Heavy Duty Mechanics and Equipment Mechanics will be required to obtain a commercial license under the following terms and conditions.
1.	No discipline will be taken by the Department against any employee who is unable to obtain a commercial license for medical reasons.
2.	No discipline will be taken against any employee who is unable to pass the commercial license test, providing that the employee makes good faith efforts to pass the test. The Department will provide training to assist the employee in preparation for the examination.
3.	No employee will be removed from their civil service position due to their inability to obtain a commercial license for medical reasons or when an employee is unable to pass the commercial license test, providing that the employee makes good faith efforts to pass the test.
4.	If employees' inability to maintain their commercial driver's license due to medical reasons has an effect on their Bid position due to operating needs, the Union and Management will meet to discuss alternative/options.
5.	The Department will pay for the cost of the commercial license, provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding. If class "C" license fees are incurred as a result of the commercial license, the Department will reimburse the employee for these fees as well.
104
APPENDIX I
ELECTRICAL CRAFT HELPER COMPENSATION FOR TRAINING INSTRUCTORS
Six occupants in the class of Electrical Craft Helper (Class Code 3799), when assigned to act as training instructors in the &	Power Distribution Business Unit, Safety and Training Business
Group, shall receive the "A" level pay for the class on Duties Description Record No. 94-37126.
Notwithstanding the existing bid plan, when filling the positions described herein in the future, Management shall select from candidates using a competitive interview process.
When leaving the positions described herein, an employee shall return to the pay level he/she occupied prior to occupying the "A" level training instructor position, unless the position he/she moves to provides higher compensation.
105
EXHIBIT A
SHOP STEWARDS
OPERATING, MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE UNIT LOCAL UNION 18, I.B.E.W
Aguirre, Jesus	Central Service Center
Alderete, Luis	JFB/Print Shop
Alva, Neal	Metro/ESO
Alvarado, Martin	Western Section/Gardeners
Anderson, Gary	Haynes GS/ESM
Angst, Ronald	Lone Pine Office
Askew, Herman	JFB/Building Repair
Bacon, Steve	Valley Patrol
Barnidge, Marty	Sylmar Converter Station/ESO
Baumer, James B.	Palmetto/ESM
Bejarano, A.J.	Metro/FI
Bell, Jackie	WLA SC
Bertram, Clark	West Valley/ESO
Blonde1-Timmerman, J.	Northridge SC
Bond, David	Substation Construction
Boothe, Kenneth	Central Service Center
Bosstick, James	Substation Construction/Rinaldi
Brown, Gary	Castaic PP/ESM
Broyard, Kirk	Western Water District
Buchanan, Sheila	VSC/Stores
Cannon, John D.	Haiwee PP/Owens Valley
Canzano, Eugene	Palmetto
Capece, Rocco T.	VSC/Stores
Cardenas, Frank	Central Service Center
Carlisle, Glenn	AOB/AC Mchc
Carrera, Ruben	Palmetto/Substation Construct.
Casillas, Vince	Central Service Center
Chavez, Luis	Victorville/Adelanto
Christian, Paula	Sub Opr/Rinaldi
Clarke, Michael	Castaic/ESO
Coffin, Cindy	WLA/FI
Cook, Virginia	Main Street
Copeland, Joe	Palmetto/ESM
Cordova, Javier	Metro/FCU
Corpus, Demitrio	Main St/Machine Shop
Cunha, David	Palms Service Center
Deichen, Stan	RS-E/Substation Center
Delgado, Kenneth	Central Water
Diaz, Thomas	Metro Electric Trouble
106
Kellgreen, Laura	Valley Field Training Unit
Kelly, Chesley	RS-C/ESM
Koester, Steven	Van Nuys SC/UG Const
Krebbers, Martin	LA Hydro PP1/ESO
Landis, Robert	Boylston Dispatch
Lawson, Lee	Palm Service Center
Lewis, Charles	Central Meter Shop
Leyva Steven	ESM
Lomeli, Larry	VNSC/UCDCM
Lopez, Carlos	.	Lincoln Heights Service Center
Lopez, Ruben	Northridge
Lozano, Louis	WLA Service Center
Lucero, Thomas	Artesian Street/ESR
Lund, Garrett	Main Street/Fleet
Manzano, Jose	Harbor/Water Quality
Marrufo, Martin	ESM/Painters
Martinez, Mike	LAAFP
Marufo, Anthony	Valley/FSU
McCloud, Stuart	Palms Service Center
McCue, Kevin	Central Service Center
McDaniel, Tim	South Central/ESO
McMichael, Larry	Delta UT
Meeks, Terry	Palms Service Center
Mercado, Jesse	Temple Street/Water
Miller, Mark	VNSC/Stores
Minor, Donley	WLA/Meter Reading
Montano, David	West Valley/Landscaping
Montelongo, Dan	WLA/Field Services
Moore, Patrick M<.	WLA Shops
Morin, Roberto	Central Service Center
Morzov, David L.	Valley GS/Patrol
Murphy, Timothy	Temple Street/Stores
Myers, Eugene	Main Street/Station Test
Nacey, John	Victorville Transmission
Olivia, Joseph	Temple Street/Bldg Repair
Ortega, Roy	Western Water District
O' Toole, Keven	Street Light
Patterson, Dwayne	Electric Trouble
Pennington, Harold	Castaic PP/ESM
Perez, Albert	Harbor Water Distribution
Perez, Jesse	Main Street/Field Test
Perez, Tony	Lincoln Heights Service Center
Phipps, Joseph c.	VN Service Center
Polanco, Richard	WLA/Substation Construction
Purkey, Michael	Boylston Trouble
108
INDEX
- A -
A.O.T.L., See Accumulative Overtime Log abrogate, 78 absence, 14, 15, 29, 30, 34, 40, 52, 93
absence with pay, 31 absentee ballot, 30 access, 11 accommodations, 61, 63 Accumulative Overtime Log, 28, 29
Administrative Code, 16, 50, 74, 77 administrators, 97 advisory, 95, 96 affidavit, 73, 97 agency, 16, 40 airline miles, 43 allowances, S3, 58, 60, 62, 63 alternate work schedules, 42 anniversary date, 76, 77 annual rate, 2, 23, 31, 32, 33, 39, 43, 49, 52, 56, 90 appeal, 6, 8, 9, 12 appendices, 74, 80, 93 apprenticeship, 76, 100 approval, 11, 13, 20, 25, 31, 32, 65, 69, 74, 79, AQMD, 97, 98 arbitration, 5, 7, 95, 96 arbitrator, 7, 96 assign, 17, 20, 42, 54 attendance, 5, 36, 40, authorization, 11, 14, 15, 22, 62 award, 96
- B -baggage checking, 62 bargaining, 14, 77, 78, 82, 83, 84, 94, 95, 100 benefit, 15, 25, 31, 34, 66, 69, 70, 71, 72, 82 bicycle, 97 bidders, 102 binding, 3, 7, 74, 82 Building and Safety, 77 bulletin boards, 20 business needs, 99
- C -calendar year, 14, 28, 29, 31, 32, 47, 54, 72, 73 call out, 22, 27, 29, 55 camps, 44, 64 cancellation, 27 carpool, 97, 98 carriers, 70 continuous-operation, 23, 24, 35, 36, 37, 47, 48, 49, 55 certificates, 31 charitable fund, 17 Charter, 33, 95, 100 City Controller, 77 City Council, 50, 69, 74, 75, 79 Civil Service, 5, 13, 31, 34, 59, 69, 74, 75, 77, 83, 104 classification, 13, 28, 34, 66, 71, 77, 81, 83, 84, 90, 91, 93 cleaning, 63 clothing, 63 committees, 78, 79, 99, 100 communication, 16, 27, 28 compensation, 25, 34, 37, 50 conditions of employment, 1, 10 confidential, 15, 16, 73, consolidate, 74, 91 Consumer Price Index, 58 contracting out, 77, 95, 96 contracts, 95, 100 contribute, 69, 70 contribution, 74, 76, 77, 80, 81 core, 85, 99 costs, 7, 15, 54, 62, 70 counseling, 12 Court, 19, 40, 96 coverage, 69, 70, 71 crew/truck assignments, 46 cumulative, 31, 37, 95 cumulative-hour, 23, 28, 36, 37, 47, 52
- D -daily-rate, 2, 22, 36, 46, 50 daylight saving time, 40 death benefit, 15, 25, 31, 34, 66, 70, 72, 73, 82 deduction, 14, 17, 35 dental plan, 14, 69, 70, 71 dependent, 69, 71 disability, 3, 15, 25, 31, 33, 34, 39, 66, 71, 72
-110-
military, 33
mission, 10
moving, 58, 59
Mutual Gains Bargaining, 78, 79 negotiations, 67, 68
Nevada, 16, 30, 69
Newhall, 57, 59 - N -
notice, 7, 9, 14, 15, 20, 24, 32, 38, 42, 44, 47, 65, 92
Notice to Correct Deficiencies, 65
NTCDs, 65
- O -	.
Obligation to Support, 69
Ontario, 57
operating needs, 22, 32, 39, 47, 60, 104
operations, 1, 10, 90
ordered trips, 61, 62
ordinance, 2, 3, 50, 68, 95, 96
out-of-town, 57
overtime, 21, 22, 25, 28, 39, 45, 50, 52, 84, 97, 99
overtime meals, 54 - P -
paid, 14, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
29, 33, 50, 53, 55, 75, 81, 84, 90, 92
parking fees 53, 97, 98
part-time, 36, 71, 99
pass 97, 104
pay, 2, 14, 17, 22, 25, 27, 30, 38, 47, 51, 52, 53, 72, 73, 76, 77, 80, 83, 92, 93, 97, 101, 104
pay differential, 52, 93
payment 24, 26, 32, 39, 55, 80, 84, 102
payroll 15, 17, 32, 54
penalty 24, 38, 55
per diem, 33, 54, 98
permanent reporting location 42, 46, 97, 102
permit, 11, 77
Personnel Department, 31, 91
Personnel File, 65
polls, 30
position, 28, 29, 37, 59, 75
Preamble, 5
precedent, 68
premium, 27, 41, 90, 91, 103
promote, 1, 17, 85
proprietary, 95 protective, 63, 101, 103 public agency, 40 qualified, 15, 29
- R-
rate differential, 75 ratified, 74 recognition, 2 recorded, 22 regular shift, 26, 27 regulations, 20, 34, 67 reimburse, 57, 64, 84, 92 Religious Objections, 17 renewals, 77 rental, 12, 95 report, 1, 6, 19, 27, 30, 39, 97 reporting locations, 42, representation, 1, 11, 14, 16, 20 resolution, 4, 17, 36, 62, 70, 75, 78
rest periods, 35
retirement, 15, 25, 31, 59, 66, 69, 71, 73, 81 - S-
safety, 35, 52, 63, 67, 77, 85 safety program, 67 safety rules, 67 salary ranges, 87, 88, 89 Savings Clause, 67 scheduled overtime, 22, 27, 55, 97
scope of implementation, 74 scramble, 98
self-representat ion, 11 seniority, 42, 77, 83 service, 1, 9, 13, 15, 31, 37, 41, 51, 59, 72, 81
shift, 14, 35, 36, 37, 39, 41, 47, 49, 97
shift differerentials, 40, 41 shift swaps, 41 sick benefits, 71 stewards,11, 12, 78, 106 straight-line miles, 46 straight-time rate, 24, 38 strike, 1 subordinate, 78, 100, subpoena, 40 subsidy, 70, 71, 97, supplemental benefits,71 survivor, 7 3 suspend,17
-112-