Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Chicago, City of and State and Municipal Teamsters, Chauffeurs and Helpers Union, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 726 (1999)
K#: 811863
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.comell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
CITY OF CHICAGO AGREEMENT WITH
I7JM5.I
i ; *
CITY OF CHICAGO AGREEMENT WITH
Teamster Local 726
INDEX
Page
ARTICLE 1	- RECOGNITION ....................................... 1
Section 1.1................................................ 1
ARTICLE 2	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ................................. 3
ARTICLE 3	- NON-DISCRIMINATION ................................ 4
Section 3.1	Equal Employment Opportunities ............... 4
Section 3.2	No Discrimination ............................ 5
Section 3.3	Grievance of Alleged Violations .............. 5
Section 3.4	Reasonable Accommodation ..................... 5
ARTICLE 4	- WAGES AND ALLOWANCES................................6
Section 4.1	Prevailing Rates ............................. 6
Section 4.2	Negotiated Rate Adjustments .................. 6
Section 4.3	Other Rate Adjustments ....................... 9
Section 4.5	Call-in-Pay .................................. 9
Section 4.6	Special Rate Adjustments .................... 10
Section 4,7	Payment of Wages..............................10
ARTICLE 5	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME.........................12
Section 5.1	12
Section 5.2	Overtime	14
Section 5.3	15
ARTICLE 6	- HOLIDAYS...........................................16
Section 6.1	16
Section 6.2	Payment for Holiday		 18
Section 6.3	Determining Work Days	as Holidays	19
Section 6.4	Failure to Report to Work on Scheduled
Holiday.............................................19
Section 6.5..............................................Holiday Observance ........................... 19
ARTICLE 7	- VACATIONS........................................2 0
Section	7.1	Amount.......................................20
Section	7.2	Pro Rata Vacations...........................21
Section	7.3	Forfeiture of Vacation ..................... 22
Section	7.4	Employees Laid-Off	or	Discharged ........... 22
Section	7.5	Rate of Pay..................................23
Section	7.6	Selection..................................23
i	175845.1
... . . .
Section 7.7	Reciprocity with Other Agencies ............ 25
Section 7.8	Non-Consecutive Vacation Days .............. 25
ARTICLE 8	- CONTINUOUS SERVICE ............................... 26
Section 8.1	26
Section 8.2	Interruption in Service 	 27
Section 8.3	Reciprocity 	 27
Section 8.4	Break In Service	28
Section 8.5	Probationary Employment 	 29
Section 8.6	Seasonal Employment 	 30
Section 8.7	34
Section 8.8	Filling of Vacancies 	 34
Section 8.9	Balancing the Workforce 	 36
Section 8.10	Acting In A Higher-Rated Job	37
ARTICLE 9	- GROUP HEALTH. VISION CARE, DENTAL. LIFE AND ACCIDENT BENEFITS ............................................. 38
ARTICLE 10	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE.................................40
Section 10.1	Bereavement Pay..............................40
Section 10.2	Military Leave ............................. 41
Section 10.3	Jury Duty Leave/Subpoena.....................42
Section 10.4	Sick Leave...................................42
Section 10.5	Duty Disability Leave ...................... 43
Section 10.6	Personal Leave ............................. 44
Section 10.7	Medical Leave .............................. 46
Section 10.8	Union Leave ................................ 47
ARTICLE 11	- DISCIPLINE AND GRIEVANCE/ARBITRATION ............ 48
Section 11.1	Discipline ................................. 48
Section 11.2	Procedure For Department Review of Disciplinary Action Including Suspension ................. 53
Section 11.3	Grievance	and	Arbitration ................. 56
Section 11.4	Conduct of Disciplinary Investigations . .	64
ARTICLE 12	- NO STRIKES-NO LOCKOUT.............................70
Section 12.1	70
Section 12.2	71
Section 12.3	71
Section 12.4	71
ARTICLE 13	- DUES	CHECK-OFF	AND	FAIR	SHARE................72
Section 13.1	72
Section 13.2............................ .................73
Section 13.3	73
Section 13.4	73
Section 13.5	74
ii	■	175845.1

ARTICLE 14	- MISCELLANEOUS.....................................75
Section 14.1	Job Titles..................................75
Section 14.2	Traditional Work............................75
Section 14.3	Jurisdictional Disputes ................... 76
Section 14.4	Deferred Compensation ..................... 78
Section 14.5	Rules of Conduct Changes .................. 78
Section 14.6	Safety......................................79
Section 14.7	Bulletin Boards ........................... 81
Section 14.8	Information to Union ...................... 81
Section 14.9	Volunteer Work..............................82
Section 14.10	Transfers Between Departments ............ 82
Section 14.11	  82
Section 14.12	Labor-Management Committee ................ 83
Section 14.13	Automobile Reimbursement .................. 83
Section 14.14	Uniforms ................................. 84
ARTICLE 15	- LAYOFFS & RECALL..................................84
Section 15.1	Order of Layoffs............................84
Section 15.2	Recall.....................................8 5
ARTICLE 16	- SEPARABILITY......................................85
ARTICLE 17	- UNION REPRESENTATION..............................85
Section 17.1	Union Representatives ..................... 85
Section 17.2	Union Rights .............................. 86
Section 17.3	Right of Access.............................86
ARTICLE 18	- DRUG AND ALCOHOL PROGRAM..........................87
Section 18.1	Police Statement .......................... 87
Section 18.2	Definition ................................ 88
Section 18.3	Disciplinary Action ....................... 89
Section 18.4	Drug and Alcohol Testing....................90
Section 18.5	Employee Assistance Program ............... 93
Section 18.6	Paid Time for Drug Testing..................93
ARTICLE 19	- RATIFICATION AND TERMINATION .................... 93
ARTICLE 20	- TERM OF AGREEMENT.................................95
APPENDIX A APPENDIX B APPENDIX C APPENDIX D APPENDIX E APPENDIX F APPENDIX G APPENDIX H EXHIBIT I
iii
175845 l
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT AUTHORIZED WITH STATE AND MUNICIPAL TEAMSTERS, CHAUFFEURS AND HELPERS UNION, LOCAL 726
The Committee on Finance submitted a report recommending that the City Council pass a proposed ordinance transmitted therewith, authorizing a Collective Bargaining Agreement between the City and the State and Municipal Teamsters, Chauffeurs and Helpers Union, Local 72 6.
The following is said ordinance as passed:
WHEREAS, The City of Chicago, as a home rule unit within the meaning of the Illinois Constitution of 1970; and
WHEREAS, The City of Chicago, as a home rule unit, may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs; and
WHEREAS, It is the intent of the City of Chicago to establish and promote harmonious understandings and relationships by and between the City of Chicago and the State and Municipal Teamsters, Chauffeurs, and Helpers Union, Local 726; and
WHEREAS, The City of Chicago desires to formalize said intent in a written Agreement; now, therefore,
Be It Ordained by the City Council of the City of Chicago:
That the Agreement by and between the City of Chicago and the State and Municipal Teamsters, Chauffeurs and Helpers Union, Local 726, in the form attached hereto, is hereby adopted and ratified.
1
175845.1
CITY OF CHICAGO AGREEMENT WITH
State and Municipal Teamsters, Chauffeurs and Helpers Union Local 726
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is entered into by and between the City of Chicago, an Illinois Municipal Corporation (hereafter called the "Employer") and the State and Municipal Teamsters, Chauffeurs and Helpers Union - Local 726 (hereinafter called "the Union"), for the purpose of establishing, through the process of collective bargaining certain provisions covering wages, and other terms and conditions of employment for the employees represented by the Union.
In recognition of the above, the Employer and the Union agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION
Section 1.1
The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in the following job classifications:
Motor Truck Driver
1
175845.1
Motor Truck Driver -	(Operating Sweeper, Tow Truck or Dead Animal Truck)
Motor Truck Driver -	(Operating dual purpose equipment, five-axle, or tractor trailer unit or Front End Loader)
Motor Truck Driver -	Tire Repairer
Equipment Dispatcher I/C
Equipment Services Coordinator
Equipment Coordinator
Supervising Ground Transportation Monitor
Equipment Dispatcher
Equipment Training Specialist
Foreman of Motor Truck Drivers
General Foreman of Motor Truck Drivers
Garage Attendant
Garage Attendant 1/ C
Automotive Parts Man
Automotive Parts Man I/C
Chauffeur
Booter
Supervising Booter
Attendant Airport Parking
Airport Ground Transportation Monitor
2
175845.1
Airport Terminal Monitor
Cashier - Airport Parking
Cashier Accounting - Airport Parking
Cashier
Supervising Attendant - Airport Parking
Supervising Cashier - Airport Parking
Supervisor of Ground Transportation Monitors
Skyway Maintenance Worker
The Union is authorized to bargain collectively for such employees with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours and other terms and conditions of employment. The term "employee" as used herein, refers to the above job classifications, unless specified to the contrary.
ARTICLE 2 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union recognizes that certain rights, powers, and responsibilities belong solely to and are exclusively vested in the Employer, except only as they may be subject to a specific and express obligation of this Agreement. Among these rights, powers, and responsibilities, but not wholly inclusive, are all matters concerning or related to the management of the Employer's operations and the administration thereof, and the direction of the working forces, including (but not limited to) the right to suspend, discipline, or discharge for just cause; to layoff by reason of lack of work, by reason of lack of funds or work, or
3
175845.1
abolition of a position, or material changes in duties or organization of the Employer's operations, or other economic reasons; to hire, classify, transfer and assign work, promote, demote, or recall; to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations; to maintain order and efficiency; co schedule the hours of work, to determine the services, processes, and extent of the Employer's operation, the types and quantities of machinery, equipment and materials to be used, the nature, extent, duration, character and method of operation, including (but not limited to) the right to contract out or subcontract; the right to determine the number of employees and how they shall be employed, and the quality and quantity of workmanship and work required to insure maximum efficiency of operations; to establish and enforce fair production standards; and to determine the size, number and location of its departments and facilities. All of the provisions of this Article are vested exclusively in the Employer, except as expressly abridged by a specific provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE.3 NON-DISCRIMINATION
Section 3.1	Equal Employment Opportunities
The Union agrees to work cooperatively with the Employer to insure equal employment opportunities as required by law in all aspects of the Employer's personnel policies.
4
175845.1
Section 3.2	No Discrimination
Neither the Employer nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee covered by this Agreement in a manner which would violate any applicable laws because of race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, mental and/or physical handicap or activity on behalf of the Union, Section 3.3 Grievance of Alleged Violations
Grievances by employees alleging violations of this Article shall be resolved through Step II of the Grievance procedure of this Agreement, but shall not be subject to arbitration unless mutually agreed by the parties.
Section 3.4__Reasonable Accommodation
In the event the Employer shall be required to make a reasonable accommodation under the Americans With Disabilities Act ("ADA") to the disability of an applicant or incumbent employee that may be in conflict with the rights of an employee under this Agreement, the Employer shall bring this matter to the attention of the Union. The provisions of Article 11 of this Agreement shall be available, and the Arbitrator may balance the Employer1s obligations under the ADA and this Agreement and the employee's rights under this Agreement, provided that no incumbent employee shall be displaced by such decision of the Arbitrator.
5
175845.1
ARTICLE 4 WAGES AND ALLOWANCES
Section 4. ...1_ Prevailing Rates
Employees, where there has not been an agreement to the contrary, shall be paid the hourly wage negotiated by Local 731, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, in its area wide Construction Agreement, then in effect on July 1, 1999, July 1, 2000, July 1, 2001 and July 1,	2002 in accordance with the
Employer's past practice.
Allocation to the hourly rate shall be determined by Local 731 Executive Board.
Section 4.2 Negotiated Rate Adjustments
Employees referred to in items A through D below are defined as Garage Attendants, Chauffeurs, and Automotive Parts Men hired since February 13, 1986 as well as Booter, Supervising Booter, Attendant - Airport Parking, Airport Terminal Monitor, Airport Ground Transportation Monitor, Cashier Airport Parking, Cashier Accounting - Airport Parking, Cashier, Supervising Cashier -Airport Parking, Equipment Training Specialist and Skyway Maintenance Worker, Auto Pound Supervisor, Service Writer and Mobile Health Operator.
A.	Hooters and Automotive Parts employees: Effective July 1, 1999 and again on July 1, 2000, July 1, 2001, and July 1, 2002, the Employer will increase the rates for these employees by the amount of the cents per hour increase received by Motor Truck
6
175845.1
Drivers on the prevailing rate. In addition, effective July 1, 2000, Booters shall change to an hourly rate from a monthly rate, and shall receive in addition to the foregoing the following wage adjustments: $1.00/hour (effective July 1, 2000); $1.00/hour (effective July 1, 2001); $1.00/hour (effective July 1, 2002). Effective July 1, 2002, Booters shall not accrue sick days and shall receive the holidays set forth in Section 6.1(a).
B.	Garage Attendants and Mobile Health Operator: Effective July 1, 2000 the Employer will increase the then existing base rate of the Mobile Health Operator by $.50 per hour. Effective January 1, 2000, the Employer will increase the base rate of Garage Attendants by $. 25 per hour. Thereafter, these employees will receive the following increases on the dates specified -- effective January 1, 2000, 1.5%; effective July 1, 2000, 2.5%; effective July 1, 2001, 3.0%; effective July 1, 2002, 2.5%; and effective January 1, 2003, 1.5%.
C.	All other employees listed above shall receive the following wage increases:
effective	1/1/00	1.5%
effective	7/1/00	2.5%
effective	7/1/01	3.0%
effective	7/1/02	2.5%
effective	1/1/03	1.5%
All employees receiving these increases who are on the payroll as of the effective date of this Agreement, as well as persons who
7
175845.1
have retired between July 1, 1999 and the effective date of this Agreement, shall be paid the additional sum of $350.00.
All incumbent employees covered by this Agreement who are currently on the salary schedules appended hereto as Exhibits A, B, C, D, E, F, G, and H, shall be placed on a new 12-step salary schedule as set forth in Exhibits , effective July 1, 2000. The 12-step schedule will be administered in the same fashion and under the same historical practices as the current 10-step salary schedule. Incumbent employees will be placed on the new schedule at the step in their grade which most closely approximates their then-current pay rate, it being understood that no employee will receive less than his or her current pay rate. Such employees who are placed on said schedule will receive an adjustment in their wage rate of not less than 2%, which may be satisfied by the employees' immediate receipt on July 1, 2000 of a step increase to which they may be eligible as a result of their placement on the schedule and their continuous service date. Should this guarantee result in the employee receiving a monthly and annual pay rate which is higher than the amount that should be paid to the employee relative to his or her placement on the new salary schedule, the employee shall receive that higher amount until the employee reaches his or her next step in the salary schedule, whereupon he or she shall receive the pay rate appropriate to that step in the schedule. The placement of the employees on the new schedule will
8
175MS.I
not change their current anniversary date; however, if an employee receives a step increase as a result of his or her placement on the salary schedule, that may result in the employee receiving a new anniversary date, in accordance with the City's historic practice. Section 4.3 Other Ra_t_e_ Adjustments
Full time employees in the titles of Garage Attendant, Garage Attendant I/C, Automotive Parts Man, and Automotive Parts Man I/C, hired prior to February 13, 1986, will receive the following ("red-circled") rates for employees described as follows:
A.	A $.20/hour increase will be grant ed to employees, effective July 1, 2000.
B.	A $.20/hour increase will be granted to employees, effective July 1, 2001.
C.	A $.20/hour increase will be granted to employees, effective July 1, 2002.
Employees who report for work as scheduled or assigned shall receive a minimum of 2 hours pay, where the employees have not been told at least 3 hours prior to the employee's starting time not to report for work, except for reasons beyond the Employer's control. Section 4.5 Call-In-Pav
Employees called in for work outside their regular working hours shall be compensated for not less than 4 hours at the applicable rate, except for reasons beyond the Employer's control.
9
175845.1
Section 4.6	- Special Rate Adjustments
Effective July 1, 2000, the following classifications will receive special rate adjustments on the dates shown:
Equipment Dispatcher, $.50/hour; Motor Truck Driver Foreman and Dispatcher In Charge, $.50/hour; Motor Truck Driver General Foreman, $1.00/hour; Clam Operator (Bureau of Forestry), $.30/hour; and Front End Loader Operator (Department of Sewers), $.25/hour.
The classification of Equipment Training Specialist - Motor Truck Driver (job code 7123) will be paid a monthly rate equivalent to a $2.00/hour differential above the Motor Truck Driver prevailing rate.
Section 4.7	Payment of Wages
(a)	All regular base wages will be paid to employees not later than the next regular pay day following the end of the payroll period in which it is earned. All overtime or premium pay shall be paid to employees not later than the second regular pay day following the end of the payroll period in which it is earned. In the event of an arbitration involving a dispute arising solely under this Section, the losing party will pay the entire amount of the arbitrator's fee.
(b)	In the event an employee’s pay check, at the time specified in paragraph (a) above, fails to include all of the regular base, overtime and/or premium pay to which he/she is entitled, the Department will correct that shortage provided the employee
10
175845.1
promptly notifies the Department’s timekeeper in writing. If the Department concludes that there is a shortage in the employee's paycheck, and if the amount in question exceeds $100.00, the Department will submit a supplemental payroll to the Comptroller to cover the shortage, and will issue the employee a check in that amount within five (5) working days after the timekeeper is notified of the employee's complaint. Shortages less than $100.00 will be added to the employee's next regular pay check,
(c)	Should an employee not receive this supplemental check (for a sum greater than $100.00) within the aforementioned five (5) day period, the Employer will pay to the employee the sum of $5.00 for every pay period thereafter until the full supplemental check is received.
(d)	It is understood that pay shortages relating to newly-hired employees, persons returning from leaves of absence (including but not limited to duty disability), overtime earned under the City's emergency snow removal program, and inaccuracies due to changes in payroll deductions, are excluded from the provisions of this Section. This paragraph does not supersede any other payment obligations with respect to the payments referred to in this paragraph which may be contained elsewhere in this Agreement.
11
I7J845.I
(e)	In order to provide a basis for ongoing discussion concerning the City's payroll practices, the parties will form a Labor Management Committee consisting of four (4) persons appointed respectively by the City and by the Coalition. The City's members of the Committee will consist of representatives from the Department of Personnel, the Office of Budget and Management, the Comptroller and the Director of Labor Relations. The Coalition, as it shall determine, shall select four (4) representatives to serve as members of the Committee. The Committee will meet not less than once a year, or more frequently as the need may arise, to review ongoing issues regarding payroll, compliance with this Section, or other issues of mutual concern which may arise during the life of the parties' Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 5.1
This Article shall be to calculate overtime and shall not be a guarantee of work or hours for any day or week.
The normal work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive 8-hour days and two (2) consecutive days off, except where the Employer's operations require different scheduling needs. The Employer will notify the Secretary-Treasurer and the President of the Union of these exceptions. For shift positions requiring a seven (7) day continuous operation, the work week shall be a
12
175845.1

regular recurring seven (7) day period beginning at 12:00 midnight (one minute after 11:59 pm. Saturday) Sunday and ending at 12:00 midnight the following Sunday. The starting times of employees are contained in Exhibit I. The Employer may change the time of its work day (Exhibit I) or work week in case of an emergency or an unforeseen situation with reasonable notice to and upon request, discussion with the Union. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer may change the start of its work day for a department, bureau, crew or individual, to a time not more than two (2) hours before the times listed in Exhibit I, provided the Employer gives not less than fourteen (14) days' advance notice to the Union and affected employees, and discussion with the Union. All such changes, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, shall be in effect for a minimum of one (1) week, and shall provide for the same starting times for each day of that period. No employee shall be placed on a split shift without agreement by the Union. Failure to comply with this provision shall result in the payment of appropriate premium time to affected employees.
The City of Chicago will continue the past practice, where applicable, of beginning the normal work shift one hour earlier during the period to begin (on or about) July 1 through (on or about) Labor Day due to "heat" or temperature conditions, commonly known as the "heat program" to meet Department Operational needs.
13
175845.1
Section 5.2	Over-time
All work performed prior to the start of the regular shift on a regularly scheduled work day and work week shall be paid for at one and one-half times the regular straight time rate of pay.
All work performed after eight hours worked in any 24 hour period should be considered overtime and paid for at the rate of one and one-half times (1 1/2) the regular straight time rate provided the employee completes the normal work week or is absent with the Employer's permission.
All work performed on Saturday, when Saturday is not part of the employee's regular work week; or on the sixth consecutive day worked, shall be paid for at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular straight time hourly rate of pay. All work performed on Sunday, when Sunday is not part of the employee's regular work week; or the seventh consecutive day worked, shall be paid for at two (2) times the regular hourly rate of pay. Such overtime shall be computed on the basis of completed fifteen minute segments. Employees exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act shall not be eligible for overtime under this Section. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime and/or premium pay. Daily and/or weekly overtime and/or premium pay shall not be paid for the same hours worked.
14
175MS.I
Section 5.3
(a)	Overtime and/or premium time referred to in this Agreement shall be offered first to the employee performing the job and thereafter by seniority to the most senior employee in the job classification at the work location being given the opportunity to work, provided the employee has the present ability to perform the work to the satisfaction of the Employer without further training. A reasonable amount of overtime shall be a condition of continued employment. In the event there are not sufficient volunteers who accept such offers of overtime, the Employer may mandatorily assign such overtime by reverse seniority.
(b)	Employees in the classification at the work location who have been given the option to work the overtime and/or premium time, whether the option was accepted or rejected, will not be afforded the option to work subsequent overtime and/or premium time until all employees in the classification at the work location have been reasonably afforded the opportunity to work the overtime and/or premium time, subject to the same provision as in Section 5.3 (a).
(c)	The Employer may utilize employees from other work locations to equalize overtime distribution within the Department, as feasible over a reasonable period of time. If the Union believes there exists a catastrophic situation or an excessive amount of overtime over an extended period of time at a work
15
175845.1
- -'Sg
location, the Union will so notify the Director of Labor Relations. The Employer will meet with the Union as soon as possible, but in no event later than 72 hours, to discuss methods of equalizing overtime within the Department.
(d)	Overtime lists shall be posted at each work location and updated on a weekly basis, exclusive of lists for snow overtime which shall be maintained pursuant to the existing practice of the
parties.
ARTICLE.6 HOLIDAYS
Section 6.1
(a)	Full-time hourly employees shall receive eight hours straight time pay for the holidays set forth below:
1.	New Year's Day
2.	Dr. Martin Luther King's Birthday
3.	Casimir Pulaski Day
4.	Memorial Day
5.	Independence Day
6.	Labor Day
7.	Columbus Day
8.	Thanksgiving Day
9.	Christmas Day
(b)	Full-time salaried employees shall receive the following days off without any change in their regular salary:
1	.
2	.
3	.
4	.
5	.
6	.
7	.
8	.
9	.
New Year's Day
Dr. Martin Luther King's Birthday
Casimir Pulaski Day
Lincoln1s Birthday
Washington's Birthday
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Columbus Day
16
175845.1
. ... . : . ■■ .
10,	Veterans Day
11.	Thanksgiving Day
12.	Christmas Day
(c)	Employees covered by this Agreement including probationary employees shall be entitled to one (1) paid personal day in each year of this Agreement. At the employee's option, the personal day may be scheduled in accordance with the vacation selection procedures set forth in Article 7 of this Agreement. If the employee elects not to schedule said personal day in advance under the vacation selection procedures as provided above, such day shall be designated by the employee and shall not be denied by the Employer. If the employee is required or allowed to work on such designated day, the employee shall receive the appropriate holiday premium rate. An employee may elect to carry over the personal day to the following calendar year provided such carry over shall not exceed five (5) personal days. Employees may not designate such personal day in connection with an existing holiday, Good Friday, or a vacation schedule unless requested by the employee upon ten (10) days written notice and approved by the Employer. New employees who commence work for the Employer after June 30 shall not be eligible for this personal day until the following calendar year.
(d)	The benefits set forth in (a),(b) and (c) above shall be paid provided the employee is in pay status the full scheduled work day immediately preceding and the full scheduled work day
17
175845.)
■■
immediately following such holiday, or is absent from work on one or both of those days with the Employer's permission; such permission shall not be unreasonably denied.
(e)	Beginning January 1,	1993, all employees who are
regularly assigned to work at the Chicago Public Library system shall receive holidays in accordance with the Chicago Public Library system's holiday schedule.
NOTE: The system observes the following holidays:
HOLIDAY
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday
Lincoln's Birthday
Washington's Birthday
Pulaski Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
Section 6.2__Payment for Holiday
If an employee is scheduled to work on a paid holiday under this Agreement, except for Christmas, New year's Day, and Dr. Martin Luther King's Birthday, he/she shall be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2 1/2) times his/her regular hourly rate (which includes holiday pay) for all hours worked.
An employee working on Christmas, New Year's Day and Dr. Martin Luther King's Birthday shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times his/her regular hourly rate (which includes holiday pay) for all hours worked plus eight (8) hours off with pay (compensatory
18
175845.1
Lime) if the employee is a full-time employee and pro rata time off if the employee is a part-time employee.
Section 6.3	Determining Work Days as Holidays
A holiday is the calendar day running from midnight to midnight. An employee whose workday extends over parts of two (2) calendar days, one of which is a holiday, shall be considered to have worked on the holiday if the majority of the hours worked fall on the holiday.
Section 6.4__Failure to Report to Work on Scheduled Holiday
If an employee is scheduled to work on a holiday and fails to report to work, the employee shall forfeit his/her right to pay for that holiday unless his/her absence is due to illness, injury, or other emergency.
Section 6.5__Holiday Observance
Except for employees whose regularly scheduled workweek includes Saturday and/or Sunday, said holidays which fall on Saturday will be observed the Friday before the holiday; said holidays which fall on Sunday will be observed on the Monday after the holiday. For employees whose regularly scheduled workweek includes Saturday and/or Sunday, said holidays which fall on either Saturday or Sunday will be observed on that day. For employees whose regularly scheduled work week includes Saturday and/or Sunday, whenever said holiday falls on an employee's normal day off the employee shall be granted another day off with pay. The
19
175845.1
Department Head shall grant an employee's request for another day off on the basis of seniority among the employees who normally perform the work and make their requests on the same day, provided however, that the Department Head shall retain the right to determine the number and scheduling of employees at any one time without hindering the operation of the Department.
Whenever said holiday falls during an employee's vacation period the Employer shall have the option of granting the employee an extra day's pay or an extra day of vacation at a time mutually agreed upon between the employee and the Department Head, provided the employee works the full scheduled workday immediately preceding and the full scheduled workday immediately following such vacation period, unless such absence is for a reason the Employer finds to be valid, such as receiving pay for sick days.
ARTICLE 7 VACATIONS
Section 7.1 Amount
Employees shall be eligible for paid vacations as of January 1 of each year following the year in which they were employed. An employee will earn the following amounts of paid vacation, based on such employee's continuous service prior to July 1; following his/her January 1, eligibility.
Continuous
Service Prior to. July ,1_____VaqatiQn
Less than 6 years...............................13 days
20
175845.1
6 years or more, but less
than 14 years.................................18	days
14 years or more.................................23	days
After 24 years...................................24	days
After 25 years...................................25	days
Section 7.?__Pro Rata Vacations
An employee shall be eligible for pro rata vacation if:
1.	The employee did not have twelve (12) months of continuous service in the preceding calendar year and is on the payroll as of January 1 of the current calendar year; or
2.	The employee was separated from employment, other than for cause, during a calendar year in which the employee did not have twelve (12) months of continuous service.
The amount of pro rata vacation is determined by dividing the number of months of continuous service the full-time employee worked in the previous/current calendar year, whichever is applicable, by twelve (12); the resulting figure is multiplied by the amount of paid vacation for which the employee is eligible in Section 7.1 above. Any fraction is rounded off to the nearest whole number of days. Employees separated from employment, other than for cause, will be paid on a supplemental payroll as soon as practicable following the last day worked.
Part - time employees who work at least eighty (80) hours per month earn vacation on a pro rata basis calculated in accordance
21
175845.1
with the formula used by the Employer in accordance with past practice.
Seorion.. .7_, J_Forfeiture of Vacation
All earned vacation leave shall be forfeited unless (1) the employee was denied vacation by the employer, or (2) the employee elects in writing to carry over up to three such vacation days for use individually or consecutively during the next vacation year, provided that notice of such election shall be given to the employer before December 15 of the vacation year. Such carry over vacation days must be scheduled upon mutual agreement of the employer, which agreement shall not be unreasonably denied or withheld, and such carry over days must be taken on or before April 30 of the next vacation year. Employees on duty disability shall retain any vacation leave earned prior to being placed on duty disability leave, together with all vacation time earned during the period of duty disability for the twelve (12) months following the date in which the person became disabled, and shall be entitled to use such vacation time within twelve (12) months following their return to work.
Section 7.4	Employees Laid-Off, or Discharged
Employees who are terminated for cause are not entitled to any vacation pay not taken. Employees shall not earn vacation credit for any period during which they are on layoff or leave of absence without pay in excess of thirty (30) days (except where such leave
22
175*45.1
was adjudged eligible for duty disability) or engaged in conduct in violation of Article 12 of this Agreement. In the event of the death of an eligible employee, the surviving widow, widower or estate shall be entitled to any vacation pay to which the deceased employee was entitled.
Section 7.5	Rate of Pay
The rate of vacation pay shall be computed by multiplying the employee's straight time hourly rate of pay in effect for the employee's regular job at the time the vacation is being taken, times eight (8) hours per day, times the number of days' vacation to which the employee is entitled. Salaried employees shall receive their regular salary in effect at the time the scheduled vacation is taken.
Section 7.6	.Selection
Vacation picks will be granted by classification seniority, provided however, the Department Head shall have the right to determine the number and scheduling of crews and employees who can be on vacation at any one time without hindering the operation of the Department. The Department will not designate any time or period during the calendar year when eligible employees would be prohibited from scheduling and taking vacation time.
Employees shall make vacation picks at a time and in the manner currently provided for by their Department. The Department will respond to the employees' request for specific vacation dates
23
175845.1
within a reasonable period of time after the request is made, but not more than fourteen (14) days from the date the request is received by the Department, except in cases where the request is made for a vacation to be scheduled within fourteen (14) days. The Department will not arbitrarily cancel an approved vacation selection absent a severe emergency situation caused by an act of God (e.g., snow, flood, storms), a severe manpower shortage which may seriously hinder the Department's operations, or where an employee possesses a unique skill indispensable to the immediate performance of a Department's operation. Any such cancellation of the vacation pick shall result in the payment of the vacation pay (thereby reducing the total of the employee's accrued vacation time) plus payment to the employee of the appropriate pay rate for all hours worked as if it were a normal work day, or for a normal work day, whichever is greater, unless the employee voluntarily agrees to reschedule the vacation days lost.
Cancellation of approved vacation requests which would result in serious provable financial loss to an employee shall occur only in the most extreme emergencies. In the event of such cancellation, the Employer will reimburse the employee for reasonable losses incurred as a direct result of the cancellation, (e.g., cost of rescheduling airline tickets, deposit forfeitures, and the like).
24
175845.1
Section 7_,_7. .Reciprocity with Other Agencies
Any employee of the City of Chicago hired prior to February 13, 1986 who has rendered service to the County of Cook, the Chicago Park District, the Chicago Housing Authority, the Forest Preserve District, the Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago, the State of Illinois, the Chicago Board of Education, the City Colleges of Chicago, Community College District 508, the Chicago Transit Authority, the Public Building Commission of Chicago, the Chicago Urban Transportation District, and the Regional Transportation Authority, shall have the right to have the period of such service credited and counted for the purpose of computing the number of years of service as an employee of the City for vacations, provided that such service has been continuous service. However, vacation time accrued while working for another public agency is not transferable. Employees hired after February 13, 1986 who render service for any other employer as stated above shall have the right to have the period of such service credited and counted for the purpose of computing the number of years of service as an employee of the City for vacations, provided a majority of other employees of the Employer receive such credit. Section 7,8 Non-Consecutive Vacation Days
Employees may receive up to five (5) of their vacation days, one or more day(s) at a time, as days off in each year. Such days off shall be scheduled pursuant to Section 7.6 above. Such day(s)
25
175845.1
off shall be approved by the employee's supervisor and such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. If the employee seeks such days so late in the vacation year that the employee' s supervisor cannot reasonably grant the employee's request, such days shall be scheduled by the Employer prior to the year-end.
Employees may designate and use at their option up to five (5) of their vacation days in each year of this Agreement as sick days to cover periods of bonafide medical illness. The Employer reserves the right to ask the employee to furnish proof of said illness. An employee desiring to use vacation days as sick days under this provision shall inform the representative of the Employer who employees are told is designated for such purposes of that fact at the time he/she calls in to report an illness. Salaried employees who currently are receiving sick days under this Agreement shall be ineligible to use vacation days as sick days while they have available unused sick days.
ARTICAS 9
CONTINUOUS SERVICE
Section 8.1
Continuous service means continuous paid employment from the employee's last date of hire, without a break or interruption in such paid employment. In addition, an employee earns continuous service credit even though he or she is not paid for:
1.	An unpaid leave of absence of one year or less or a layoff of thirty (30) days or less; or
26
175845.1
2.	An absence where the employee is adjudged eligible tor duty disability compensation.
Section 8.2	Interruption in Service
(a)	Non-seasonal employees who work a minimum of eighty (80) hours per month shall be credited with continuous service for the time worked. Continuous service credit will not be earned for:
(1)	absence without leave
(2)	absence due to suspension
(3)	Unpaid medical leave of absence for more than 3 0 days or layoff for more than 3 0 days, unless employees are allowed to accumulate seniority under this Agreement.
(b)	Seasonal employment of 120 days or less in any calendar year shall not be credited toward continuous service for the time worked.
(c)	Seasonal employment in excess of 120 days in any calendar year shall be credited toward continuous service.
Section 8.3	Reciprocity
Employees hired prior to February 13, 1986 who have rendered service to the County of Cook, the Chicago Park District, the Forest Preserve District, the Chicago Housing Authority, the Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago, the State of Illinois, the Chicago Board of Education, City Colleges of Chicago, Community College District 508, the Chicago Transit Authority,
27
175845.1
Public Building Commission of Chicago, the Chicago Urban Transportation District and the Regional Transportation Authority shall have the period of such service credited and counted for the purpose of advancement within longevity salary schedules. However, employees hired after February 13, 1986 who render service for any other employer as stated above shall have the right to have the period of such service credited and counted for the purpose of advancement within longevity salary schedules provided a majority of other employees of the Employer receive such credit.
Section 8.4	Break In Service
Notwithstanding the provisions of any ordinance or rule to the contrary, continuous service of an employee is broken, the employment relationship is terminated, and the employee shall have no right to be rehired, if the employee quits, is discharged, retires, is absent for five (5) consecutive work days without notifying the employee's authorized Employer representative unless the circumstances preclude the Employee, or someone on his behalf, from giving such notice, does not actively work for the Employer for twelve (12) months (except for approved full time Union representative leaves or medical leaves of absence and duty disability leaves), or is on layoff for more than twelve (12) consecutive months if the employee has less than five (5) years of service at the time of the layoff, or is on layoff for more than
28
I75M3.I
.... . ■ ■ ■■■... ... . . ■
two (2) years if the employee has five (5) or more years of service at the time of the layoff.
Section 8..5...-£r-Qbat-ionary Employment.
New employees will be regarded as probationary employees for the first six (6) months of their employment and will receive no seniority or continuous service credit during such probationary period. Probationary employees continuing in the service of the Employer after six (6) months shall be career service employees and shall have their seniority date made retroactive to the date of their original hiring. Probationary employees may be disciplined or discharged as exclusively determined by the Employer and such Employer action shall not be subject to the grievance procedures, provided that, if the Employer, within its discretion, rehires a former employee who did not complete his/her probationary period within one year from the employee's termination, and said former employee had served ninety (90) days or more of his/her probationary period, all time previously served in the probationary period shall be counted for purposes of determining when the said employee completes his/her probationary period. A probationary employee who has served ninety (90) days or more of his/her probationary period and who is laid off shall be given preference over other applicants for employment in the same job title in the department from which he/she was laid off, so long as he/she does
29
175845.1
not refuse an offer of employment, and does not suffer a break in service under Section 8.4 of this Agreement.
Probationary employees shall not be eligible for dental or vision insurance but shall receive all other benefits under this Agreement. Probationary employees shall be compensated at the same rate as career service employees.
Section 8.6	Seasonal Employment
A seasonal employee is an employee who is employed in a job title for a period not to exceed 180 calendar days for temporary work related to or caused by seasonal needs. Such appointments shall expire automatically at midnight of the 180th day. Such employees may be reappointed for temporary work related to or caused by seasonal needs, with the written concurrence of the Budget Director and Commissioner of Personnel, to an additional thirty-day term which shall expire at midnight of the 30th day. One further said thirty-day reappointment for the same purposes may be made upon similar Budget Director and Commissioner of Personnel approval. The Employer shall notify the Union of the number and job titles of any such reappointments. It is understood and agreed that the hiring and retention of seasonal employees shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
Seasonal appointees shall not become Probationary Career Service or Career Service employees by virtue of length of service in a seasonal appointment.
30
175845.1
Seasonal employees shall not be eligible for holidays, vacations, sick leave for salaried employees, vision care, dental, life and accident benefits, bereavement pay or jury duty, but will be provided with group health insurance under the same eligibility and conditions as other employees covered by this Agreement, except that elective medical care and pre-existing conditions, as those terms are defined in the standard group insurance policy, shall be excluded.
Seasonal employees shall be compensated at the same rate as career service employees. Seasonal employees may be disciplined or discharged as exclusively determined by the Employer and such Employer action shall not be subject to the grievance procedures. Seasonal employees shall be eligible for recall to seasonal positions in which they have accumulated either (a) four (4) months of said seasonal service during the 1984-85 winter season, or (b) five (5) months of said seasonal service from and after July 1, 1983, provided that such employees:
1.	shall not have received a negative evaluation during their last seasonal appointment and shall not have received (a) more than one written warning or (b) a disciplinary suspension in any Employer position;
2.	shall be available, fit for duty and subject to the same pre-employment screening procedures as are new applicants for employment when recalled, and shall have the present
31
175845.1
ability without further training to immediately perform the duties of the position to which they are recalled;
3.	shall not refuse recall. Upon recall, the employee shall promptly notify the Employer of his/her desire to return to work and shall be available to report for employment within seventy-two (72) hours of said notice or the employee shall be deemed to have refused recall;
4.	shall have been recalled within one year of the expiration of their last seasonal employment; and
5.	shall not have resigned or incurred a break in service during a period of appointment.
Employees who do not meet and continue to meet all of the five (5) conditions stated above, shall have their names permanently removed from the recall list.
Evaluations shall not be subject to the grievance procedure, except that the Employer shall not, after January 1, 1985, give a seasonal employee a negative evaluation for an arbitrary or capricious reason for the purpose of preventing the employee from becoming eligible for recall under this Section, and, only to that limited extent may such Employer action be subject to grievance.
A seasonal employee who is hired on an annual recurring basis within one year of his/her last termination; and who accumulated twelve (12) months of said seasonal service from and after July 1, 1983, shall not be a career service employee but shall receive the
32
173843.1
benefits under this Agreement which are given to probationary employees.
Effective January 1, 2001, a seasonal employee who is hired on an annual recurring basis within one year of his/her last termination, and who accumulates 12 months of said seasonal service, shall receive the benefits under this Agreement which are given to career service employees, and shall remit full contributions toward their health care coverage as set forth in Article 9 below.
Effective January 1, 2001, seasonal employees with less than 12 months of seasonal service will continue to receive their current benefit package, but will pay a pro-rata share of the full contribution toward their health care coverage. The amount of that contribution shall be approximately 90% of the employee medical contribution for career service employees. For example, the contributions at selected salary levels per pay period are as follows:
ANNUAL SALARY	SINGLE 0.92529%	EMPLOYEE +1 1.42173%	FAMILY 1.77345%
Up to $30,000	12.50	19.00	22.00
$30,001	12.72	19.55	24.38
$40,000	15.42	23.70	29.56
$50,000	19.28	29.62	36.95
$60,000	23.13	35.54	44.34
$70,000	26.99	41.47	51.73
$80,000	30.84	47.39	59.12
Maximum rate	34.74	53.37	66.56
33
175845.1
The Department will provide the Union with written notice of the names of laid off seasonal Motor Truck Drivers within fourteen (14) days of layoff, and the names of rehired seasonal Motor Truck Drivers within fourteen (14) days of rehire.
Section 8.7
When the Employer declares a vacancy for full-time Motor Truck Drivers, seasonal Motor Truck Driver employees who apply and who have recall rights under Section 8.6 of this Agreement, shall be given preference for hire over non-employees, provided they have the then present ability to perform the work to the Employer's satisfaction without further training. When equally qualified, ties between employees will be broken by seniority.
Section 8.8	Filling of Vacancies
Employees within a department who desire a change in shift, day off group or work location of their job assignment shall request such change in writing on the Employer's form. When filling a vacancy, the Employer shall select the most senior (timein-title) employee in the job classification in the department who has such a request on file, provided the employee has the present ability to perform the required work without further training.
Employees may file such requests in December for the period beginning in January and continuing through March of the following year,- in March for the period beginning and continuing through June; in June for the period beginning in July and continuing
34
175845.1
through September; and in September for the period beginning in October and continuing through December. Employees filing multiple requests and accepting a transfer shall only be allowed a single transfer in each six (6) month period.
When filling a vacancy and where no such requests are on file, the Employer shall post the job for bid. A copy of the posting shall be provided to the Union no later than the first day of posting.
Qualified employees shall be given an equal opportunity with other applicants to bid on jobs which are declared vacant by the Employer. The Employer shall select the most qualified applicant. Where applicants are equally qualified, the Employer shall select the most senior employee of those applying who has the greatest ability to fill the needs determined by the Employer with due regard to the Employer's efforts to ensure equal employment opportunities. "Ability" shall be determined by the Employer based upon performance evaluation, experience, training, proven ability and similar criteria.
"Seniority" shall mean, for purposes of this Section, the employee’s service in the job title (time-in-title).
The successful bidder for any jobs under this Section shall have an evaluation period, not to exceed sixty (60) days, to demonstrate that he or she can perform the job. If the Employer has reasonable cause based upon the employee job performance at any
35
175845.1
time during that period that the successful bidder cannot perform the job, then the successful bidder shall be returned to the job he/she held just prior tot he awarding of the bid, displacing, if necessary, any employee who has been placed into said job."
The following entry level positions shall be excluded from the bid procedure.
1.	Attendant O'Hare Parking
2.	Skyway Serviceman
3.	Skyway Maintenance Man
4.	Airport Terminal Monitor
Section 8.. 9 Balancing the Workforce
a)	The Employer's movement of employees from one location, shift or day off schedule to another shall not be deemed a permanent vacancy if there is not a net increase in the number of employees in the affected classification(s) in the affected locations, shifts, or day off schedule.
If the Employer intends to reduce the number of employees in a job classification at a location, shift or day off schedule and reassign them to another location, shift or day off schedule, the Employer shall seek volunteers among the employees in the affected job classification, provided that the volunteers have the present ability to perform the required work without further training.
If there are more volunteers than there are assignments, such reassignments shall be made on the basis of seniority. If there
36
175845.1
are insufficient volunteers available, the Employer shall reassign employees using reverse seniority provided the employees have the present ability to perform the required work without further training.
b)	The Employer's movement of employee's from one location, shift or day off schedule to another without said request for volunteers, or by reverse seniority as in Section 8.9 above may be done to meet the Operational needs of the Department or the City of Chicago. In such circumstances, the Employer shall meet with the Union regarding the impact of said action in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Labor Relations Act.
Section 8-10 Acting In A Higher-Rated.Job
An employee who is directed to and does perform and who is held accountable for substantially all of the duties and responsibilities of a higher-rated job shall be paid at the higher rate, retroactive to the first day of the assignment. The Employer shall not require the performance of the duties in the higher-rated job for a period of more than ninety (90) days, except where a regular incumbent is on leave of absence, in which case it shall be six (6) months. Such time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
If the Employer continues to require the performance of the duties of the higher-rated job beyond this time limit, the Employer
37
175845.1
shall post and fill the job as a permanent vacancy pursuant to Section 8.8.
The Employer shall notify the Union on a monthly basis of all employees continuously working in a higher rated position for more than one pay period. Such notice shall include the name of the individual acting in said position, the name of the person being replaced, if known, and the date which the individual began and stopped working in said position, and the Department.
ARTICLE 9
GROUP HEALTH. VISION CARE, DENTAL. LIFE AND ACCIDENT BENEFITS
a)	The Employer shall provide to employees and their eligible dependents Group Health, Vision Care, Dental, Life ($25,000) and Accident benefits as provided to a majority of other employees of the City under the same terms and conditions applicable to said other employees, provided further, said benefits shall be at no cost to employees and their eligible dependents.
b)	Employees who participate in the Employer medical care plan or an HMO shall make the following contributions toward their health care coverage:
1)	effective July 1, 1999:
salary Band	Single	Eg,,, +1	Family
up to $30,000	12.50	19.00	22.00
$30,001 to $60,000	15.50	28.00	35.00
over $60,000	27.50	50.00	56.00
2)	effective January 1, 2001, employee medical contributions are based on a composite 1.6% of base salary for single, employee and one, and family levels of coverage as specified below.
38
173843.1
For example, the contributions at selected salary levels per pay period are as follows:
ANNUAL SALARY	SINGLE 1.0281%	EMPLOYEE +1 1.5797%	FAMILY 1.9705%
Up to $30,000	12.50	19.00	22.00
$30,001	12.85	19.75	24.63
$40,000	17.14	26.33	32.84
$50,000	21.42	32.91	41.05
$60,000	25.70	39.49	49.26
$70,000	29.99	46.07	57.47
$80,000	34.27	52.66	65.68
$89,999	38.55	59.24	73.89
$90,000 +	38.60	59.30	73.95
All contributions shall be made on a pre-tax basis and are payable on a per pay period basis.
c)	The benefits provided for herein shall be provided through a self-insurance plan or under a group insurance policy, selected by the Employer. All benefits are subject to standard provisions of insurance policies between Employers and insurance companies.
d)	A dispute between an employee (or his/her covered dependent) and the processor of claims shall not be subject to the grievance procedure provided for in the Agreement between the Employer and the Union.
e)	Optional coverage offered by a Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) shall be made available to qualified employees. The Employer may offer coverage under more than one HMO. The employee's option of selecting an HMO is subject to conditions for
39
175845.1
eligibility set by the HMO, notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary.
f)	Where both husband and wife or other family members eligible under one family coverage are employed by the Employer, the Employer shall pay for only one family insurance or family health plan.
g)	The current practice of permitting employees to use vacation or other time due during an illness in order to keep his/her insurance in effect shall continue for the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE ...1.0 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 10.1	Bereavement Pay
In the event of a death in an employee's immediate family such employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence up to a maximum of three (3) consecutive days including the day of funeral. Where death occurs and the funeral is to be held out of Illinois and beyond the states contiguous thereto, the employee shall be entitled to a maximum of five (5) consecutive days. During such leave, an hourly employee shall receive his/her regular straight time pay for such time as he/she is required to be away from work during his/her regularly scheduled hours of work (not to exceed eight (8) hours per day). Salaried employees shall receive the leave of absence without additional compensation.
40
175845.1
The employee's immediate family shall be defined as: mother, father, husband, wife, brother or sister (including step or half), son or daughter (including step or adopted), father-in-law, motherin-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law grandparents, grandchildren, court-appointed legal guardian, and a person for whom the employee is a court-appointed legal guardian. The Employer may, at its option, require the employee to submit satisfactory proof of the relationship of the deceased to the employee.
Section 10.2	Military Leave
Any employee who is a member of a reserve force of the United States or of the State of Illinois, other than the National Guard, and who is ordered by the appropriate authorities to attend a training program or perform other duties under the supervision of the United States or the State of Illinois, shall be granted a paid leave of absence during the period of such activity, but not to exceed fourteen (14) calendar days in any calendar year, provided that the employee deposits his/her military pay for all days compensated by the Employer with the City Comptroller.
Any employee who is a member of the National Guard of the United States or of the State of Illinois and who is ordered by the appropriate authorities to attend a training program or perform other duties under the supervision of the United States or the State of Illinois, shall be granted a paid leave of absence during
41
175845.1
the period of such activity, but not to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days in any calendar year, provided that the employee deposits his/her military pay for all days compensated by the Employer with the City Comptroller.
Said paid leaves of absence shall not reduce the employee1s vacation or other leave benefits.
Section IIKI _J_ury .Duty Leave/Subpoena
An employee who serves on a jury or is subject to a proper subpoena (except if the Employee is a party to the litigation) shall be granted a leave of absence with pay during the term of such absence, provided that the employee deposits his jury duty pay with the City Comptroller.
Section 10.4	Sick-Leave
Salaried employees who are granted paid sick leave on the execution of this Agreement shall continue to receive the same sick leave provisions during the term of this Agreement, so long as he/she continued to work under a classification that was receiving sick leave at the execution of the Agreement. This provision will not affect any accumulated sick leave such employees may have at the execution of this Agreement. An employee shall have the option to use up to six (6) days of sick leave per year for the illness of an immediate family member.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 1998 and thereafter, said employees who receive paid sick time shall accrue
42
175845.]
sick time at the rate of one (1) day for each month of employment. In the event an employee is hospitalized, upon request of the employee, the Employer will make available to said employee up to the full amount of sick time the employee would have accrued for the remainder of that calendar year as if he/she were actively employed, in order to cover the absence resulting from the hospitalization and recovery. Upon his/her return to work, the employee will begin to accrue sick time with the start of the next calendar year. The Employer reserves the right to require an employee to provide documentation of the illness in question.
Section 10.5	Duty Disability Leave
Any employee who is absent from work due to an injury on duty shall be granted a leave of absence. The Employer will mail the initial Duty Disability payment within ten (10) working days upon receipt of verified authorization from the approving authority. Subsequent payment for eligible employees will be made once a month. If duty disability is denied, and such denial is later reversed, the employee shall be paid up to date the amount the employee was eligible to receive. Employees who return from said leaves shall be reinstated to their former job classification, if it is vacant or if it is then occupied by an employee with lower seniority. If the employee's former job classification is not available because the employee would have been laid off if the employee had not been on a leave of absence, the employee may
43
175845.1
exercise seniority rights in accordance with and subject to the layoff, recall and break-in-service provisions of this Agreement.
The Employer will mail the initial Duty Disability payment within fourteen (14) days of the Employer’s designated medical officer being advised by the employee or his physician of the occurrence of a job-related injury, provided that there is no dispute as to employee's entitlement to Duty Disability.
Section 10.6	Personal Leave
Non-probationary employees may apply for leave of absence without pay for personal reasons. The grant and duration of such leaves shall be within the discretion of the Employer. Seniority shall accumulate for employees on said leaves. Employees who return from said leave shall be reinstated to their former job classification, if the Employer determines it is vacant or if it is then occupied by an employee with lower seniority. If the employee's former job is not available because the employee would have been laid off if the employee had not been on a leave of absence, the employee may exercise seniority rights in accordance with and subject to the layoff, recall and break-in-service provisions of this Agreement.
Bargaining unit employees who have completed their first 12 months of employment and who have worked 1,250 hours in the preceding 12 month period shall thereafter be entitled to family and medical leave for a period of up to twelve (12) work weeks
44
175845.1
during any twelve (12) month period for any of the following reasons:
(1)	for the birth of an employee's child and to care for the newborn child;
(2)	for the placement with the employee of a child for adoption or foster care;
(3)	to care for the employee's spouse, child or parent with a serious health condition;
(4)	due to a serious health condition affecting the employee.
Such leave shall be without pay unless the employee determines to substitute accrued paid leave for which the employee is eligible. During any leave taken under this Article, the employee's health care coverage shall be maintained and paid for by the employer, as if the employee was working and seniority shall accrue.
Any employee desiring to take leave under this Section shall provide reasonable advance notice to the employer on a form provided by the employer, which form shall be approved by the Union. Reasonable advance notice shall be no less than ten (10) days; and where advance notice cannot be provided, the employee shall provide notice within 48 hours after the employee is able to do so. Failure to provide the notice provided for in this Section shall not affect the validity of the leave where the employer has actual notice. Except as may be specifically stated in this
45
175845.1
Agreement, employees shall take leave provided for as permitted by the provisions of the Family Medical Leave Act, including its rules and regulations. Employees shall have a right to return to their regular assignment and location.
Section 10.7	Medical. Leave
Non-probationary employees shall be granted medical leaves of absence upon request. Said medical leaves of absence shall be granted for up to three (3) months, provided said leaves shall be renewable for like 3-month periods. The Employer may request satisfactory proof of medical leaves of absence. After the first year, such medical leaves shall be extended in up to one-year segments. Employees on medical leaves of absence shall return to work promptly after their doctor releases them to return to work.
Employees who return from said medical leaves of absence promptly after their doctor1s release within one year shall be reinstated to their former job classification if it is vacant or if it is then occupied by an employee of lower seniority. In addition, the Employer will return an employee to the same geographic location of his or her previous job assignment for a period of up to one year after the start of the leave. If the employee's former job is not available because the employee would have been laid off if the employee had not been on a leave of absence, the employee may exercise seniority rights in accordance
46
175845.1
... ... ■ ... . . .■ ■ -?;
with and subject to layoff, recall and break-in-service provisions in this Agreement.
After one year on an approved medical leave of absence, employees who return to work promptly after their doctor's release and who meet the following continuous service requirements shall be reinstated as described above according to the following formula: three (3) months of such reinstatement rights for every year of service to a maximum of five (5) years reinstatement rights.
An employee who does not meet the above eligibility requirements and who returns to work promptly after his/her doctor's release after more than one year on a medical leave of absence, shall be returned to his/her former job classification if the job is vacant. If not, the employee will be placed on a list for reinstatement.
Seniority shall accumulate for employees on medical leaves of absence for only up to one year. After one year, an employee on a medical leave of absence shall retain, but not accumulate, seniority.
Section io.$___Unison..Leave
The Employer shall grant request for leaves of absence for up to six (6) employees for the purpose of service as Laborer Representative or officer with the International, State, District Council or Local Organization of the Union for the duration of his/her appointment to the Union, provided reasonable advance
4 7
175845.1
notice in writing is given to the Employer. While on such leave the employee shall not incur a break in continuous service. An employee on said leave of absence shall not be eligible for any benefits as an employee.
Employee's who return from Union leaves of absence shall have the same right as an employee who returns from medical leaves of absence.
ARTICLE 11
DISCIPLINE AND GRIEVANCE/ARBITRATION
Section 11.1	Discipline
(a)	Disciplinary action including discharge, shall be excluded from this grievance procedure. Suspensions over 10 days and discharges shall be governed exclusively by the City of Chicago1s Personnel or Police Board Rules, whichever may be applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, suspensions of 11 days or more may be appealed to arbitration in lieu of the Personnel or Police Board upon the written request of the Union. Disciplinary cases which are converted from a discharge to a suspension as a result of decision of the Personnel or Police Board do not thereafter become arbitrable as a result of said decision. The grievance procedure provisions herein and the Personnel or Police Board appeals procedure are mutually exclusive, and no relief shall be available under both. An employee who may be subject to disciplinary action for any reason has the right to ask for a Union
48
175845.1
representative to be present at any interrogations or hearings in accordance with said Boards' rules.
For suspensions of eleven (11) to thirty (30) days the designated supervisor shall meet with the employee and notify him/her of the reasons for the discipline and be given the opportunity to respond at that meeting. If the employee requests the presence of a Union representative at such meeting one will be provided if conveniently available.
In the case of discharge, the employee shall be provided with a written statement of the charges on which the discharge is based with an explanation of the evidence supporting the charges. The employee shall have an opportunity to - (1) respond to said charges in writing within five (5) working days of notification of the charge, and (2) meet with the Department Head's designee before action is taken. A Union representative may be present at such meeting.
(b)	An employee who is subject to disciplinary action for any impropriety or cause has the right to ask for and receive a Union representative to be present at any interrogations or hearings prior to being questioned. The interrogation shall take place at reasonable times and places and shall not commence until the Union representative arrives, provided that the Employer does not have to wait an unreasonable time and the Employer does not have to have the interrogation unduly delayed. An employee may be discharged
49
175845.1
for just cause before the Personnel or Police Board hearing, provided that said employee shall be guaranteed, upon request, a full hearing before said Board, in accordance with the said Board's rules. It is further provided that in the event of non-egregious offenses, not to include violent acts, criminal acts, drinking alcohol or taking illegal drugs on the job, insubordination or work stoppages, the employee will be given 30 days advance notice of discharge, and has 7 days from receipt of the notice to appeal. If the employee does not file an appeal within the 7-day appeal period, the Employer may then remove the employee from the payroll. If the employee appeals the discharge, the Personnel Board shall be requested to set a hearing date within the 30-day notice period and the employee shall remain on the payroll for the full notice period, except if prior to completion of the 30-day notice period (1) the Hearing Officer affirms the discharge,- or (2) the employee continues the discharge hearing,- or (3) the employee withdraws his appeal or otherwise engages in conduct which delays the completion of the hearing. However, in no event may the employee require the employer to retain the employee on the payroll beyond the 30-day period. The Union shall have the right to have its representatives present at either of the Board(s) or the grievance procedure, including arbitration, and to actively participate.
(c)	The Employer within its discretion may determine whether disciplinary action should be an oral warning, written reprimand,
50
175845.1
suspension or discharge, depending upon various factors, such as, but not limited to, the severity of the offense or the employee's prior record. Such discipline shall be administered as soon as practical after the Employer has had a reasonable opportunity to fully investigate the matter and conduct a meeting with the Union and employee. The Employer is not obligated to meet with the employee and Union prior to taking disciplinary action where the employee is unavailable or in emergency situations.
Demotions shall not be used as a part of discipline. Transfer shall not be part of an employee's discipline.
In cases of oral warnings, the supervisor shall inform the employee that he/she is receiving an oral warning and the reasons therefore. For discipline other than oral warnings, the employee's immediate supervisor shall meet with the employee and notify him/her of the accusations against the employee and give the employee an opportunity to answer said accusations. Specifically, the supervisor shall tell the employee the names of witnesses, if any, and make available copies of pertinent documents the employee or Union is legally entitled to receive, to the extent then known and available. Employer's failure to satisfy this Section 11.1 shall not in and of itself result in a reversal of the Employer's disciplinary action or cause the Employer to pay back pay to the employee.
51
175845.1
In the event disciplinary action is taken, the employee and the Union shall be given, in writing, a statement of the reasons therefore. The employee shall initial a copy, noting receipt only, which shall be placed in the employee's file. The employee shall have the right to make a response in writing which shall become part of the employee's file.
Any record of discipline may be retained for a period of time not to exceed eighteen (18) months and shall thereafter not be used as the basis of any further disciplinary action, unless a pattern of sustained infraction exists. A pattern shall be defined as at least two substantially similar offenses during said 18-month period. If an employee successfully appeals a disciplinary action, his/her file shall so record that fact. If the appeal fully exonerates the employee, the Employer shall not use said record of the discipline action against the employee, or in the case of promotions or transfers.
In any disciplinary investigation of a non-egregious offense conducted by the investigative staff of the Office of Budget and Management, the Employer shall notify the employee who is subject to the disciplinary investigation of the pendency of the investigation and its subject matter, within thirty (30) calendar days of the Employer being made aware of the alleged rule violation. For the purposes of this Section, the term "non-egregious offense" shall not include inducible criminal offenses,
52
175845.1
gross insubordination, residency issues, or drug and alcohol violations. Thereafter, the employee shall be granted a predisciplinary hearing if requested within thirty (30) days. Any discipline given in violation of this notice provision shall be null and void.
In the event that a discharged employee appeals an adverse decision of the Personnel or Police Board to the Circuit Court of Cook County, or thereafter to the Appellate Court of Illinois, and the decision of the Personnel or Police Board is reversed or remanded resulting in restoration of the job, the Employer will pay the employee's reasonable attorney's fees which he or she has incurred in connection with the court proceeding, excluding fees incurred before the Personnel or Police Board. The employee shall submit a post-appeal fee petition to the Employer, which shall be supported by full documentation of the work performed, the hours expended, and the rates paid by the employee. Should the parties be unable to agree on the proper amount of the fees to be paid to the employee, either party may refer the dispute to arbitration under the relevant provisions of this agreement.
Section 11.2	Procedure For Department Review of Disciplinary Action Including Suspension
Step 1. Within 5 working days after an employee receives written notice of any proposed disciplinary action, including a suspension for ten (10) days or less which is not appealable to the Personnel or Police Board, or in the
53
175845.1
case of suspensions of 11 or more days which may be appealed to arbitration in lieu of the Police or Personnel Board upon the written request of the Union, the Employer shall conduct a meeting with the union and employee. Discipline shall be administered as soon as possible after the employer has had a reasonable opportunity to further investigate the matter as appropriate. If disciplinary action is taken after the meeting or further investigation, the employer may request in writing to the department head a review of the said disciplinary action on a form provided by the Employer. Said request for review shall be in writing and submitted within three (3) working days of receipt of written notice of discipline. Said review form shall be printed on the back of or attached to the notice of discipline together with instructions for appeal. The failure to submit a written request for review of disciplinary action within three (3) working days of receipt of notice of disciplinary action will preclude the employee's right to review.
Step 2 . Within three (3) working days or any mutually agreed upon extension after the Department Head or designee receives the employee's request for review, the department head or designee shall conduct a meeting to review the
54
175845.1

suspension. Failure to conduct said meeting in three (3) days will result in automatic advancement to Step 3 and the Union shall so notify the Employer. At the meeting, the Department will give the basis for its action and the employee and union representative, if any, will be heard and provided the opportunity to ask questions. The Department Head or designee shall render a written decision within two (2) working days of the meeting, except where both parties agree a further investigation is required. The absence of such Agreement or failure to decide and communicate such decision will result in automatic advancement to Step 4 and the Union shall so notify the Employer. A copy of such decision shall be sent to the employee and the Union.
Step 3. Where further investigation is agreed upon, a second meeting shall be held between the Department Head or designee and the employee and the Union representative to discuss the results of the investigation. Said meeting shall be conducted within five (5) working days of the close of the Step 2 meeting, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. The Department Head or designee shall render a written decision within two (2) working days of the second meeting. A copy of such decision shall be sent to the employee and the Union. If the parties fail to
55
175845.1
meet within five (5) working days or a written decision is not submitted within two (2) working days, the appeal shall automatically proceed to Step 4 and the Union shall so notify the Employer. Except where otherwise indicated, the time limits set forth herein are to encourage the prompt reviews of said disciplinary action and failure to comply with these time limits will not affect the validity of the said disciplinary action. This procedure shall be the employee's exclusive remedy for all said disciplinary action, including suspension for ten (10) days or less, or for suspensions of 11 days through 30 days which may be appealed to arbitration in lieu of the Personnel or Police Board upon the written request of the Union.
Step 4. If the matter is not settled at Steps 2 or 3, the Union may submit the matter to arbitration under the terms of this Agreement. The rules governing procedure for arbitration shall be the same as in 11.3, Step III.
Section 11.3	Grievance and Arbitration
Except as in disciplinary provisions of 11.1 and 11.2 above, a difference, complaint or dispute (hereinafter called a grievance) between the Employer and the Union or any of the employees of the
56
175845.1
Employer it represents, arising out of the circumstances or conditions of employment, shall be exclusively settled in the following manner.
There shall be no interruption of the operation of the Employer. It is agreed that the time limitations set forth herein are of the essence and that no action or matter not in compliance therewith shall be considered the subject of a grievance unless said time limitations are extended by written agreements of both parties to this Agreement.
Failure of the Employer to answer a grievance within the time limits herein shall permit the Union to advance the case to the next Step. The Union will be informed of and allowed to be in attendance at all grievance or disciplinary hearings. The Union shall send written notice to the Department Head notifying him/her of automatic advancement to the next Step.
Before a formal grievance is initiated, the employee may discuss the matter with his/her immediate supervisor. If the problem is not resolved in discussion, the following procedure shall be used to adjust the grievance:
I - Immediate Supervisor
A.	The employee or the Union shall put the grievance in writing on the form to be supplied by the Employer upon request, but in the absence of such a form, employee or the Union may submit the grievance in letter form, within
57
175345.1
twelve working days of either the employee or the Union having knowledge of the event which gives rise to the grievance. The employee or the Union will indicate what Section and part of the Agreement is in violation and the requested remedy, and submit the grievance to the employee's immediate supervisor. It is understood that if the employee has knowledge of the grievance more than twelve working days than the Union, the Union shall not thereafter file any grievance concerning that same issue with the Employer.
B.	Within five (5) working days of the written grievance, the immediate supervisor will notify the employee and the Union in writing of the decision.
Step II
A. If the grievance is not settled at Step I, the Union representative and/or the employee shall have the right to make an appeal in writing to the Department Head/or the Department Head's designee within seven (7) working days after the date of receipt of the decision or the date it was due under Step I, by the immediate supervisor. The name of the Department Head designee shall be posted for employees in areas where employee notices are normally posted and submitted to the Union. Failure to post and so notify the Union will permit
58
175845.1
immediate advancement to arbitration unless corrected within two (2) working days of notice of failure to post. B. The Department Head or the Department Head designee will notify the employee and Union in writing with a copy to the Union of his/her decision within seven (7) working days of receipt of the Step II appeal.
C.	Any settlement at Step I or II shall be binding upon the Employer, Union and the aggrieved employee or employees. Grievances may be withdrawn without prejudice at any Step of the grievance procedure if mutually agreed.
D.	If the grievance is not settled at the second Step, the Union or the Employer may request final and binding arbitration by serving written notice on the other within ten (10) working days from receipt of the Employer's Step II decision or the date it was due.
E.	If the grievance or arbitration affects more than one employee, it may be presented by a single selected employee representative of the group or class. A class action shall be identified to the Employer at Step I or as soon as practicable. The resolution of a grievance filed on behalf of a group of employees shall be made applicable to all of the affected employees within that group,
59
17584J.I
F.	Even though a grievance has been filed, employees are obligated to follow instructions or orders of supervisors or the Employer, except where the instruction or order is so inherently dangerous to the employee that it could cause death or serious physical harm. The Employer agrees that by following instructions or orders the employee does not waive his/her right to process the grievance. Refusal to follow instructions or orders shall be cause for discipline.
Stem III - Arbitration
If the matter is not settled in Step II the Union or the Employer, but not an individual employee or employees, may submit the dispute to arbitration by serving a written request to arbitrate, setting forth the facts and specific relief requested, within ten (10) working days after the answer is given or due at Step II hereof.
Within five (5) days of serving the request for arbitration, or as soon thereafter as the parties mutually may agree, the Union shall have the right to convene a meeting with the Employer's designated representative in an attempt to resolve the grievance prior to any further action being taken to advance the matter to arbitration. At such meeting, the Union shall set forth in writing the facts of the matter in dispute and the relief requested. The Employer will respond to the grievance in writing by giving the
60
175845.1
reasons which it contends'support its position with respect to the grievance. In the event the parties are unable at such meeting to resolve the grievance, the Union and the Employer will proceed with the selection of an arbitrator as provided below.
Either party may submit the grievance to arbitration by serving a written request to arbitrate to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service under the rules of that tribunal with a copy to the other party. The foregoing shall not prevent the Employer and Union from mutually agreeing to the selection of an arbitrator.
The panel of arbitrators submitted must agree as a whole to commencement of a hearing within sixty (60) days of selection and that they will render a decision within thirty (30) days of the close of hearing. Any extension of those time limits must be by written consent of the Union and the Employer. The failure of either side to agree to an extension of time shall not be disclosed to the arbitrator.
Arbitrators will advise the parties of their fees and expenses prior to selection and such fees and expenses shall be borne equally between the Union and the Employer. The arbitrator shall have the right to subpoena witnesses and require the production of pertinent documents at the request of either party. Each party shall be responsible for compensating its own representatives and witnesses. The cost of a transcript shall be borne by the party
61
175845,1
requesting the reporter unless the parties agree to share such costs.
An arbitrable matter must involve the meaning and application or interpretation of a specific provision of this Agreement or a document incorporated by reference thereto. The provisions of this Agreement and any other document incorporated by reference to this Agreement shall be the sole source of any rights which either party may assert in arbitration. Questions of arbitrarily shall be decided by the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall have no power to amend, add to, subtract from, or change the terms of this Agreement, and shall be authorised only to interpret the existing provisions of this Agreement and apply them to the specific facts of the grievance or dispute.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be based wholly on the evidence and arguments presented to him by the parties in the presence of each other. No arbitration hearing shall be held unless both parties are present. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties to the dispute, including the employee or employees involved. Where timeliness is in dispute, it shall be decided by the arbitrator.
A.	Advanced Grievance Stec -Filing
Certain issues which by nature are not capable of being settled at a preliminary Step of the grievance procedure or which would become moot due to the length of time necessary to exhaust
62
175845.1

the grievance steps, or which the Union believes which would be resolved more expeditiously, may be filed at the option of the grievant/Union at Step II.
B.	Pertinent Witnesses and Information
The Union may request the production of specific documentation, books, papers or witnesses reasonably available from the Employer and substantially pertinent to the grievance under consideration. Such request shall not be unreasonably denied, and if granted shall be in conformance with applicable laws and rules issued pursuant thereto governing the dissemination of such materials.
A Union representative, a grievant, and Union steward will be permitted a reasonable amount of time without loss of pay during working hours to investigate and process grievances where this does not substantially interfere with the efficient operation of the Department, provided that representatives shall observe the Employer's reasonable visitation rules for Union representatives. The steward shall notify his/her immediate supervisor for permission to handle grievances on work time, it being understood that the operation of the Department takes precedence unless there is an emergency, but such permission shall not be denied unreasonably. A reasonable number of employees may attend the meeting without loss of pay; such meetings shall be set by mutual agreement by the Employer and the Union. Where the Employer
63
175845. ]
directs an employee to report for a meeting concerning a grievance at a time when the employee is not scheduled to work such time shall be considered time worked.
If there is space available, the Employer, upon request of the Union representative, shall provide the use of a room and telephone, to discuss the grievance, subject to the Employer's reasonable rules for the Union's use of such facilities.
Section 11.4 - Conduct of Disciplinary.Investigations
Supplementing all rights and processes due employees covered by this Agreement who may be the subject of a disciplinary investigation by the Inspector General, the interview will be conducted in the following manner:
A.	The interview of the employee shall be scheduled at a reasonable time, preferably while the employee is on duty, or if feasible, during day shift hours.
B.	The interview, depending upon the allegation, will take place at the employee's location of assignment, normal department location or other appropriate location.
C.	Prior to an interview, the employee under investigation shall be informed of the person in charge of the investigation, the identity of the interviewer and all persons present during the interview. When a formal statement is being taken, all questions directed to the
64
175845.1
employee shall be asked by and through one interviewer at a time.
D,	The length of the interview sessions will be reasonable, with reasonable interruptions permitted for personal necessities.
E.	At the beginning of the interview, the employee shall be informed of the nature of the matters to be discussed.
F.	An employee under investigation shall not be threatened with transfer, dismissal or disciplinary action, or promised a reward, as an inducement to provide information relating to the matter under investigation, or for exercising any rights contained in this Agreement, provided, however, that this Section shall not prohibit or prevent an accurate reading of the employee's administrative rights, or the imposition of discipline in accordance therewith.
G.	An employee under investigation will be provided without unreasonable delay with a copy of any written statement the employee has made.
H.	(1) If the allegation under investigation indicates a recommendation for discipline is probable against the employee, said employee will be given the statutory administrative proceedings rights prior to the commencement of the interview. (2) If the allegation
65
175845.1
indicates that criminal prosecution may be probable against said employee, the provisions of this Section shall be inapplicable and said employee will be afforded his constitutional rights concerning self-incrimination prior to the commencement of the interview. An employee will not be read his/her administrative and Miranda rights during the same interview.
I.	At the request of the employee under investigation, an employee who may be subject to discipline shall have the right to be represented in the interview by a representative of the Union. The employee shall be told that he/she has the right to Union representation before commencement of the interview. The interrogation shall be suspended until representation can be obtained, provided the suspension is not for an unreasonable time and the Employer does not have the interview unduly delayed.
J.	The Employer shall not compel an employee under investigation to speak or testify before, or to be questioned by, any non-governmental agency relating to any matter or issue under investigation.
K.	The results of a polygraph examination shall not be used against an employee in any forum adverse to the employee's interests. The Employer will not require a
66
175845.1
polygraph examination if it is illegal to do so. If an employee is asked to take a polygraph examination, he/she will be advised in writing 24 hours prior to the administration of the examination. The results of any polygraph examination shall be known to the employee within one week.
L.	This section shall not apply to employee witnesses.
M.	The identity of an employee under investigation shall not be made available to the media during the course of an investigation until charges are filed by the Employer and the employee has the opportunity to respond thereto. If an employee is exonerated after the City initially informed the media of the charges against the employee, the City will make that fact available to the media where the employee requests it.
N.	In the event that disciplinary action is taken against an employee, any allegations of violations of this Section shall be heard in connection with, and in the same forum as, grievances which protest said disciplinary action, except as provided in paragraph 0(2) below. If no disciplinary action is brought against the employee following the conclusion of the Inspector General's investigation, no grievance concerning the conduct of the investigation shall exist.
67
175845.1
0.	(1) Any evidence or information including employee
statements that is obtained in violation of the rights enumerated in this Section, shall be suppressed and shall not be used by the Employer for any disciplinary action against the employee, or in the case of promotions or transfers.
(2) (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph N above, at the option of the Union, a claim that the Inspector General has violated the provisions of this Section may be raised in a suppression hearing before a member of the permanent hearing panel listed herein, rather than in the disciplinary hearing as required in paragraph N above.
(2) (b) (1) The Union may exercise this option by notifying the employee’s Department Head and the Employer's Law Department in writing not later than ten (10) calendar days before an arbitration or the Personnel or Police Board hearing, in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Agreement. The appeal shall specify the particular contract provisions allegedly violated, together with a factual summary of the conduct alleged to have violated the Agreement. It is understood that by exercising this option, any and all time limits set forth in Chapter 2-74-060 of the Municipal Code of the City of
68
17J845.1
Chicago regarding the Personnel Board hearing shall be tolled until the arbitrator renders a decision as provided below.
(2) Upon receipt of said notice, the parties will select in order of rotation one of the three permanent hearing panel members who are chosen as follows. To be eligible for service on this panel, members must be willing to convene a suppression hearing within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of his or her selection. To select the initial panel, or should any member of the panel resign or be removed upon mutual agreement of the parties during the life of this Agreement, the parties will meet to reach agreement on new panel member who must be an arbitrator listed with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. If no agreement can be reached, the Employer will request a panel of seven (7) arbitrators from FMCS, all of whom must be members of the National Academy of Arbitrators. Thereafter, the parties will meet to strike names from the list, with the Employer striking first, until one name remains, which person shall be named to the panel.
2(c) The suppression hearing shall be convened within thirty (30) calendar days of the selection of the panel member, or at such other time as the parties may mutually
69
175MJ.1
agree. The arbitrator's jurisdiction shall be limited to determining if the Inspector General obtained evidence or statements in violation of paragraph 0(1) above, and if such evidence should be suppressed. The arbitrator shall have no authority to rule on the merits of any underlying discipline or take any other action beyond that specifically set forth in this subparagraph.
2(d) The panel member shall render an expedited decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties. It shall not be subject to collateral attack in any further disciplinary proceeding involving the employee in question.
P. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section to the contrary, no interview by the Inspector General will be conducted at a police station or other correctional facility unless the employee works at the police station or correctional facility, or if the employee has been incarcerated for more than 72 hours.
ARTICLE 12 NO STRIKES-NO LOCKOUT
Section 12.1
The Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes (including, but not limited to sympathy strikes and strikes to protect union or third party conduct), work stoppages, slowdowns, picketing, or delays of work of any kind.
70
175845.1
Section 12.2
The Union agrees that it will use its best efforts to prevent any acts forbidden in this Article and that in the event any such acts take place or are engaged in by any employee or group of employees in the Union's bargaining unit, the Union further agrees it will use its best efforts to cause an immediate cessation thereof. If the Union immediately takes all necessary steps in good faith to end any stoppages, strikes, picketing, intentional slowdown or suspension of work, including: (a) publicly disclaiming such action as not called or sanctioned by the Union, and (b) posting notices in conspicuous places which notify involved employees that the action was not called or sanctioned by the Union, in addition to instructing employees to immediately cease such activity, the Employer agrees that it will not bring action against the Union to establish responsibility for such unauthorized conduct.
Section 1?•3
The Employer may terminate the employment of or otherwise discipline any employee or employees who have been found to have engaged in any act forbidden in this Article. Section 12.4
The Employer will not lock out bargaining unit employees during the term of this Agreement.
71
175843.1
ARTICLE 13 DUES CHECK-OFF AND FAIR SHARE
Section 13.1
The Employer, upon receipt of a validly executed written authorization card, shall deduct Union dues and initiation fees from the payroll checks of all employees so authorizing the deduction in any amount certified by the Union, and shall remit such deductions on a monthly basis to the Union. Authorization for such deductions shall be irrevocable unless revoked by written notice to the Employer and the Union during the fifteen (15) day period prior to the expiration of this Agreement. The Union shall indemnify, defend and hold the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability, including damages, attorney's fees and court or other costs, that shall arise out of, or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with Sections 13.1, 13.2, 13.3, 13.4 and 13.5 of this Article, or in reliance on any list, notice, certification or assignment furnished under any of such provisions or in reliance upon employee payroll deduction authorization cards submitted by the Union to the Employer.
The Employer shall provide to the Secretary-Treasurer and the President of the Union within thirty (30) days, name, address, classification, rate of salary and starting date of any new employee hired into the Union's bargaining unit.
72
175845.1
Section 13.2
It is further agreed that thirty (30) days after the later of the execution of the Agreement or the employee's date of hire, the Employer shall deduct from the earnings of employees who are not members of the Union, a monthly amount as certified by the Union and shall remit such deductions to the Union at the same time that the dues check-off is remitted or on a monthly or quarterly basis as directed by the Union under terms and procedures as shall be agreed upon in negotiations between the Employer and Union, It is understood that the amount of deduction from said non-member bargaining unit employees will not exceed the regular monthly union dues and represents the employee's fair share cost of the collective bargaining process, contract administration and pursuing matters affecting wages, hours and other conditions of employment. Section 13.3
Nothing in this Agreement shall be inconsistent with Section 6(g) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act in protecting the right of non-association of employees based upon the bona fide religious tenets or teachings of a Church or other religious body of which such employees are members.
Section 13.4	■
Each employee who on the effective date of this Agreement is a member of the Union, and each employee who becomes a member after
73
175845.1
that date, shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his/her membership in the Union during the term of this Agreement.
Any present employee who is not a member of the Union shall, as a condition of employment, be required to pay a fair share (not to exceed the amount of Union dues) of the cost of the collective bargaining process and contract administration. All employees hired on or after the effective date of this Agreement and who have not made application for membership shall be required, thirty (30) days after the later of the execution of this Agreement or their hire date, to pay a fair share of the cost of the collective bargaining process and contract administration and pursuing matters affecting wages, hours and other conditions of employment. Section 13.5
The Employer agrees to deduct from the pay of those employees who individually request it voluntary contributions to DRIVE. DRIVE shall notify the Employer of the amounts designed by each contributing employee that are to be deducted from the employee's paycheck on each payday, provided that all employees contribute in the same amount. The Employer shall transmit such deductions to DRIVE National Headquarters on a monthly basis along with the name of each employee on whose behalf a deduction is made, the employee's Social Security number and amount deducted from the employee's paycheck. The Union shall reimburse the Employer on an
74
175845.1
annual basis for the Employers' actual cost of the expenses incurred in administering this deduction.
ARTICLE 14 MISCELLANEOUS
Section 14.1	Job Titles
The Employer will notify the Secretary-Treasurer and the President of the Union of any change in job title. If the Employer makes any substantial change in job duties it will discuss such changes with the Union prior thereto. If the Employer changes a job title without substantially changing the duties of the job, the Union will retain its existing jurisdiction over the new job title. The Employer will not permanently assign bargaining unit work to the jurisdiction of another bargaining unit without the mutual agreement of the unions involved.
Section 14.2	Traditional Work
Any work which has been traditionally performed by employees who are represented by the Union shall continue to be performed by said employees, except where non-unit employees have in the past performed unit work, or in emergencies, to train or instruct employees, to do layout, demonstration, experimental, or testing duties, to do troubleshooting or where special knowledge is required, provided however, where employees do not report to work because of vacations, or other absences or tardiness, or for personal reasons during the course of the day, or because all of the employees are or will be occupied with assigned duties, or to
75
175845.1
complete a rush assignment, employees of any other unit represented
by another Union will not perform the work of said employees. For example, if a Motor Truck Driver is on vacation, a Plumber shall not be assigned as a replacement Motor Truck Driver. The Employer shall not arbitrarily extend the period of any emergency beyond the need for that emergency.
Section 14.3	Jurisdictional Disputes
In the event that the Union files a grievance claiming that the Employer has violated the terms of this Agreement by assigning certain work to City employees represented by another union, or where the Employer receives a grievance from another union protesting the assignment of work to employees covered under this Agreement, the Employer shall serve written notice to the Union, and on the other affected union(s), of the existence of said dispute. This notice shall describe the nature of the work in dispute.
In the event this dispute remains unresolved and is submitted to arbitration, the provisions of Article 11 herein regarding arbitration of grievances shall apply, except that in addition to the Employer and the Union, the other affected union(s) shall have the opportunity to participate in the hearing and to present evidence, but shall not be bound to the results of that arbitration unless all parties so agree in advance of the hearing.
76
175845.1
If the Union shall prevail in said arbitration and is awarded the work in dispute, and if, in that event, the other affected union(s) shall pursue a claim against the Employer that the reassignment of the work in dispute violates the Agreement of that other union, the provisions of this Section shall apply to that claim as well. All parties to the dispute shall have the right to participate in any arbitration hearing of that claim and to present evidence therein. Should the arbitrator in the second proceeding determine that the Employer's reassignment of the work in dispute violates the other union(s)' Agreement, thereby requiring the Employer to comply with two conflicting arbitration decisions as to which of the unions is entitled to perform the disputed work, the following provisions shall apply.
The Employer shall have the right to invoke arbitration of the dispute under the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedures contained in Article 11 of this Agreement, except that the Union and the other affected union(s) shall select the arbitrator. The Employer, the Union and the other affected union(s) shall be parties to that proceeding, and shall have the right to fully participate in the hearing. During the pendency of this proceeding, the work assignment directed by the first arbitrator shall be followed by the parties. The arbitrator shall have the authority to decide only which of the two conflicting awards shall prevail. The arbitrator1s decision shall be based
77
175845.1
solely upon the prior arbitracion awards, the record before both prior arbitrators, and the traditional work and other relevant provisions of this Agreement and of the collective bargaining agreement of the affected union(s). No other evidence or testimony shall be admitted in that hearing. The decision of the arbitrator in this proceeding shall be final and binding upon all parties to the dispute, and none of the parties to the dispute shall seek review of that award in any other judicial or administrative forum.
Nothing herein shall preclude all parties to the dispute from voluntarily resolving it at any time.
Section 14^4. JDef erred-Compensation
The Employer's policy which is in effect at the execution of this Agreement, pertaining to Deferred Compensation, shall be afforded to all employees of the Employer without change during the term of this Agreement.
Section 14.5	Rules _of Conduct Chancres
When the Employer proposes to initiate reasonable changes or additions to its rules of conduct, which could subject employees to discipline, the Employer shall transmit four (4) copies of the proposed changes or additions to the Union. The Union will consider the proposals, and upon request, the Employer will meet with the Union within twenty (20) calendar days of the receipt of the proposals to receive the Union's comments. Absent an emergency, the Employer will not implement its proposed changes or
78
175845.1
additions until the Union has had a reasonable opportunity to present its views and discuss the proposals with the Employer. No such changes or additions shall be implemented without prior publication and notice to the affected employees.
Section 14.6	Safety
(a)	The Employer shall provide a safe and healthful working environment for employees covered by this agreement including in accordance with applicable federal and state occupational safety and health laws, and shall maintain in good and safe working condition all equipment necessary for the safe and proper performance of the job.
(b)	In furtherance of those efforts, a joint safety committee shall be established which shall be composed of six (6) representatives of the Union Coalition and six (6) representatives of the Employer. The purpose of the committee shall be to discuss, examine and to make recommendations concerning occupational safety and health issues affecting employees. All recommendations of the committee with respect to safety and health issues shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate Department Head with a copy to the Union and the Director of Labor Relations. The Department Head shall promptly issue a written response to the committee as to the Department's views regarding the committee's recommendations.
The parties may decide, from time to time, to refer certain safety issues and concerns to the personnel of the affected
79
175845.1

Department(s) responsible for safety matters and Union representatives of the affected employee(s). The Department safety personnel will meet and confer with a representative of the affected Union about such issues and report back to the Committee on any decisions or recommendations concerning them.
(c)	The joint safety committee shall meet at least once a month, or otherwise by mutual agreement.
(d)	The parties agree and understand that if an employee is faced with an unsafe working condition, the employee is required to perform the task in question unless the employee's performance of an assigned task presents the strong likelihood of subjecting the employee to imminent danger of death or serious injury. If the employee, with no reasonable alternative, refuses in good faith to perform that task and expose himself to that dangerous condition, the employee will not be subject to discipline. In order to avoid discipline under this paragraph, the condition must be of such a nature that a reasonable person, under the circumstances, would conclude that there is a real, substantial, and imminent danger of death or serious injury. In addition, the employee must also have sought from the Employer, and have been unable to obtain, correction of the situation before refusing to perform the task in question.
SO
175B45.1
Section 14.7	Bulletin Boards
The Union shall have the right to bulletin board space at locations where they can be conveniently seen and read by affected employees. The Union shall have the right to post notices concerning Union business on the bulletin boards.
Section 14.8	Information to Union
The Employer will provide to the Secretary-Treasurer and the President of the Union on a monthly basis a bargaining report of current active employees, which list shall include the employee's name, address, social security number, title, pay schedule, grade, current pay rate, status, continuous service date, time in title, date of birth, race and sex.
The Employer shall also provide to the Secretary-Treasurer or the President of the Union on a monthly basis a bargaining unit activity report of current active employees that will list Career Service Retirements; Career Service Resignations; Career Service Discharges; Non-Career Service Terminations; Leaves of Absence; Suspensions; Reinstatements; Reappointments; Transfers (Change of department and change of payroll); Appointments (which includes promotions and demotion); and Deaths. The Employer will provide the Union with copies of bid forms for each job posting within fourteen (14) days of the close of bidding for that job.
81
175845.1
Section 14.9	Volunteer Work
There shall be no volunteer unit work (without pay) except for civic City parades.
Section 14.10	Transfers Between Departments
Employees desiring to transfer between Departments shall request such transfers on a form supplied by the Employer. The request shall be submitted to the Department to which the employee desires to be transferred and the Department from which the employee wishes to leave. Upon the agreement of the respective Department Heads, the transfer request shall be granted. In the event that a transfer is denied, the employee will be informed within a reasonable time of the denial of the transfer. Nothing herein shall preclude individuals from arranging one for one transfers among themselves with the agreement of their respective Department Heads.
Section 14.11
The Employer will continue its past practice of having two (2) operators on big tow trucks (wrecker equipment), except when the assignment is geographically nearby, in which event, one operator may be used on the assignment provided the assignment is not so inherently dangerous to the employee that it could cause death or serious physical harm.
82
175845.1
Section 14.12	Labor-Management Committee
For the purpose of conferring on matters of mutual interest which are not appropriate for consideration under the grievance procedure, the Union and the Employer agree to meet periodically through designated representatives at the request of either party and at mutually agreed upon times and locations. The Union and the Employer shall each designate not more than four (4) representatives to a labor-management committee for this purpose. The Director of Labor Relations shall be sent a written agenda by the Union for any meeting seven (7) days prior to said meeting. Section 14.13 Automobile Reimbursement
Employees who are required by the Employer to use their own automobiles in the performance of their job shall receive mileage reimbursement at the then effective rate recognized by the Internal Revenue Service, with a maximum of $200 per month. On the effective date of this Agreement, the maximum reimbursement will increase to $250. Employees seeking mileage reimbursement must submit that request as a form provided by the Employer. Payment for mileage expenses will be made on a monthly basis. In the event that during the life of this Agreement the Employer shall implement for any group of employees an automobile expense reimbursement program which is more favorable to employees than the provisions of this paragraph, upon notice from the Union, the Employer will meet and discuss with representatives of the Union the possible
83
175845.1
application of said new program to employees covered by this Agreement.
Sect-ion 14-14 - Uniforms
The Employer will make arrangements for the furnishing of four (4) uniforms per year to employees assigned to booting duties, motor truck drivers assigned to Loop towing, and Police Department employees who are required to wear uniforms.
ARTICLE .IS LAYOFFS & RECALL
Section 15.1	Order of Layoffs
Probationary employees with more than ninety (90) days of service shall be laid off first. Thereafter, the least senior employee in the affected job classification shall be laid off first, provided the ability, qualifications to perform the required work, and the employee's job performance are equal among the other employees in the job and further provided, the layoff does not have a negative effect on the Employer's efforts to ensure equal employment opportunities. "Seniority" shall mean, for purposes of this Section, the employee's service in the job title (time-in-title) city-wide.
A laid-off employee may displace (bump) the least senior employee, if any, in the most recent lower job title the employee to be laid off has held, provided the employee to be laid off has the then present ability to perform the job to the Employer's satisfaction without further training; e.g., a Foreman can displace
84
175845.1
an employee in a Motor Truck Driver job he/she previously had held or a General Foreman may displace an employee in a Foreman job he/she previously had held.
Section 15.2	Recall
Employees shall be recalled in reverse order of layoff.
ARTICLE 16 SEPARABILITY
In the event any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be or become invalid or unenforceable by reason of any Federal or State Law or local ordinance now existing or hereinafter enacted, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remainder of the provisions hereof. The parties agree to meet and adopt revised provisions which would be in conformity with the law.
ARTICLE 17
UNION REPRESENTATION
Section 17.1 Union Representatives
The Union will advise the Employer in writing, of the names of the Representatives in each department or area agreed upon with the Employer and shall notify the Employer promptly of any changes.
Representatives will be permitted to handle and process grievances referred by employees at the appropriate steps of the grievance procedure during normal hours, without the loss of pay, provided that such activity shall not exceed a reasonable period of time, or unreasonably interrupt the work of employees. Representatives shall notify their immediate supervisors in advance
85
175845.1
change or set rules of access, provided that any change in current practices must be reasonable and subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE .1.8
DRUG AND ALCOHOL PROGRAM
Section 18.1____Policy Statement
The City of Chicago's essential mission is to provide service to its citizens in a safe and economic manner. The parties to this Agreement recognize that drug and alcohol abuse in the workplace has deleterious effect on the health and safety of employees, as well as their morale and productivity, all of which creates an undue burden on the persons which the City and the employees covered by this Agreement serve. Furthermore, the economic cost of providing health care services to employees who abuse drugs and alcohol has put an increasing burden on the City's finances.
The Employer and the Union maintain a strong commitment to protect people and property, and to provide a safe working environment. To this end, the Employer has also established its confidential Employee Assistance Program for employees with personal problems, including alcohol and substance abuse, and the parties to this Agreement urge employee who have such problems to utilize the Program's services.
■ To maintain a workplace which provides a safe and healthy work environment for all employees the following drug and alcohol program is also established.
87
17SS4J.!
Section 18.2____Definition
(a)	Alcohol; Ethyl a1coho1
(b)	Prohibited Items & Substances: all illegal drugs and controlled substances, alcoholic beverages, and drug paraphernalia in the possession of, or being used by, an employee on the job or the premises of the Employer.
(c)	Employer Premises: all property, facilities, land, buildings, structures, automobiles, trucks and other vehicles owned, leased or used by the Employer on the job sites or work location and over which the Employer has authority as Employer.
(d)	Employee: all persons covered by this Agreement.
(e)	Accident: an event resulting in injury to a person requiring medical attention or causing significant damage to property to which an employee contributed as a direct or indirect cause.,
(f)	Reasonable Cause: erratic or unusual behavior by an employee, including but not limited to noticeable imbalance, incoherence and disorientation, which would lead to a person of ordinary sensibilities to conclude that the employee is under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol.
(g)	Under the Influence: any mental, emotional, sensory or physical impairment due to the uses of drugs or alcohol.
(h)	Test;	the taking and analysis of any body component
sample, whether by blood, breath, urine, or in any other
88
175845.1
scientifically reliable manner, for the purpose of identifying, measuring or quantifying the presence or absence of drugs, alcohol or any metabolite thereof.
Section 18.3___Disciplinary Action
(a)	All employees must report to work in a physical condition that will enable them to perform their jobs in a safe manner. Further, employees shall not use, possess, dispense or receive prohibited items or substances on or at the Employer's premises, nor shall they report to work under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol.
(b)	When, based upon the direct observation of two supervisors, the Employer has reasonable cause to believe that an employee is under the influence of a prohibited substance, the Employer shall have the right to subject that employee to a drug and alcohol test. At the Employer's discretion, the employee may be placed on administrative leave with pay until test results are available. If the test results prove negative, the employee shall be reinstated. In all other cases, the Employer will terminate all employees who:
(i)	test positive for drug and/or alcohol use;
(ii)	refuse to cooperate with testing procedures;
(iii)	are found to be under the influence of drugs or alcohol while on duty and on the Employer's premises;
89
175845.1
(iv)	are found in possession of alcohol, drugs or
drug paraphernalia, or are found selling or distributing drugs or drug paraphernalia, on the Employer's premises.
(c)	All adverse employment action taken against an employee under this program shall be subj ect to the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement.
Section 18-4___Drug and Alcohol Testing
(a)	The Employer may require drug and/or alcohol testing under the following conditions:
(i)	a test may be administered in the event that
two (2) supervisors have reasonable cause to believe that an employee has reported to work under the influence of or is at work under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
(ii)	a test may be required if an employee is
involved in a workplace accident or fighting;
(iii)	a test may be required as part of a follow-up to counseling or rehabilitation for substance abuse for up to a one year period.
(b)	Employees to be tested will be required to sign a consent form and chain of custody form, assuring proper documentation and accuracy. If an employee refuses to sign a consent form authorizing the test, he/she will be subject to termination.
90
173845.1
(c)	Drug and alcohol testing will be conducted by an independent laboratory accredited by the NIDA or any successor agency, and may consist of either blood or urine tests, or both. The Employer reserves the right to utilize a breathalyzer to test for the presence of alcohol, in lieu of other clinical testing.
(d)	Laboratory testing procedures will conform to the procedures specified in NIDA guidelines for federal workplace drug testing programs, dated April 11, 1988 and as may be amended hereafter by the relevant agency of the Department of Health and Human Services.
(e)	Initial and confirmatory test results which meet or exceed the cutoff levels for drugs set forth in the NIDA guidelines (and as they may be amended) shall be regarded as "positive", and shall presumptively establish that the tested employee was under the influence of drugs.
(f)	Initial and confirmatory (or breathalyzer) test results which meet or exceed the level of blood alcohol established in the Illinois Motor Vehicle Act as legal intoxication shall presumptively establish that the tested employee was under the influence of alcohol.
(g)	The cost of initial and confirmatory testing will be borne by the Employer.
(h)	Drug and alcohol test results shall be reported to the Commissioner of Personnel or his designee in the manner to be
91
175845.1
prescribed by the Commissioner. The applicant or incumbent shall be notified of the test results is writing. The Commissioner will inform the applicable Department Head of any employee who tests positive for alcohol or drugs, who in turn will initiate disciplinary proceedings under Section 18.3 above.
(i)	All urine or blood samples shall be taken in sufficient quantity as to allow for retesting. Any portion not used in the test will be preserved by scientifically reliable means for one (1) year following the test. Any employee whose test result is positive may elect, at his or her expense, to be retested by the same or other laboratory satisfactory to the Commissioner of Personnel, provided that the Employer's testing laboratory shall arrange for transmitting said sample to the second laboratory. Positive results of said retesting shall be conclusive as to the presence of alcohol or drugs. The failure to take a sufficient sample, or to preserve such sample, to allow for retesting, shall not affect the removal from eligibility of an applicant or personnel action, including discharge, of any employee.
(j)	No laboratory report or test results shall appear in the incumbent's personnel file unless they are part of a personnel action under this program, but shall be placed in a special locked file maintained by the Commissioner of Personnel, except as such disclosure may be required by this policy, law or ordinance.
92
175845.1
Section__1?. $__Employee Assistance Program
Employees are encouraged to seek help for a drug or alcohol problem before it deteriorates into a disciplinary matter and may participate if they wish in the voluntary Employee Assistance Program.
Section 18.6 Paid Time for Drug Testing
Employees subject to testing for drug and/or alcohol shall be compensated for all time at the collection site and for travel time going between the work location and the collection site. If an employee is directed to proceed to a collection site during his/her shift, the employee shall remain in pay status, including premium pay where applicable, until the employee completes the sample collection.
The Employer will not require an employee selected for random testing to go to the collection site before the start of the employee's shift or after its completion. During the employee's shift, an employee will not be required to use his/her personal vehicle to drive from the work location to the collection site to take a drug or alcohol test.
ARTICLE 19 RATIFICATION AND TERMINATION
The terms of this Agreement shall be subject to ratification by the City Council of the City of Chicago and concurrent adoption in ordinance form. The Employer and the Union will cooperate to secure this legislative approval.
93
175845.1
This Agreement shall be effective as of said date of ratification by the City Council and shall remain in full force and effect from said date to June 30, 2003, both inclusive. Thereafter, it shall automatically renew itself from year to year unless at least sixty (60) days and not more than one hundred-twenty (120) days prior to the termination date or anniversary thereof, either party gives written notice to the other by Certified Mail, return receipt requested, of a desire to amend, add to, subtract from or terminate this Agreement.
In the event such notice of a desire to amend, add to, or subtract from the terms of this Agreement is given, the parties shall, within a reasonable time thereafter, enter into negotiations concerning the request.
This Agreement constitutes the entire contract between the Employer and the Union and settles all demands and issues with respect to all matters subject to collective bargaining. The Employer and Union, therefore, voluntarily waive the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any matter which is subjected to collective bargaining whether or not such matter is specifically referred to herein, and even though such matter may not have within the knowledge or contemplation of the parties at the time this Agreement was negotiated or signed.
94
17584S.I
Ie is further agreed zhat any improvements in holidays, vacations, sick leave for salaried employees, group health, vision care, dental, life and accident benefits, bereavement pay and jury duty leave granted to the majority of other employees of the Employer during the term of this Agreement shall also be granted to the employees represented by the union coming under this Agreement.
ARTICLE_____20 TERM OF AGREEMENT
Subject to approval by the City Council, this Agreement shall go into effect July 1. 1999, and continue in full force and effect until midnight, June 30. 2003 . Thereafter, it shall automatically renew itself from year to year unless at least sixty (60) days and not more than one hundred-twenty (12 0) days prior to the termination date or anniversary thereof, either party gives written notice to the other by Certified Mail, return receipt requested, of a desire to amend, add to, subtract from, or terminate this Agreement. If such notice is given, the parties shall meet promptly to negotiate a new Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto, by its duly authorized representative(s), has executed this document as of the ___ day- of., 2001.
CITY OF CHICAGO STATE AND MUNICIPAL TEAMSTERS
CHAUFFEURS AND HELPERS UNION
96
170902.1
Teamsters
Local *726
	JUNE 30 	 1999	JULY 1 1999	JULY 1 2001	JULY 1 2002	JANUARY 1 2003
AUTOMOTIVE PARTS MAN *	13.87	14.57	15.77		
AUTOMOTIVE PARTS MAN I/C *	14.59	15.29	16.49		
BOOTER	2,608.00	2, 729.33	17.95		
SUPERVISING BOOTER	2,754.00	2,875.33	18.79		
EQUIPMENT TRAINING SPECIALIST-MTD	4,056.00	4,177.00	4,385.00		
EQUIPMENT DISPATCHER	21.40	22.10	23.80		
EQUIPMENT DISPATCHER IN CHARGE	22.40	23.10	24.80		
MOTOR TRUCK DRIVER	21.40	22.10	23.30		
MOTOR TRUCK DRIVER	21.65	22.35	23.55		
(WHEN OPERATING SWEEPER,					
TOW TRUCK, DEAD ANIMAL TRUCK					
OR FRONT END LOADER)					
MOTOR TRUCK DRIVER	21.85	22.55	23.75		
(WHEN OPERATING DUAL PURPOSE					
EIVE-AXLE OR TRACTOR-TRAILER					
OR CLAM)					
MOTOR TRUCK DRIVER		22.60	23.80		
(WHEN OPERATING FRONT END					
LOADER - Sewer Dept)					
MOTOR TRUCK DRIVER		22.85	24.05		
(WHEN OPERATING CLAM - Forestry)					
MOTOR TRUCK DRIVER	22.90	23.60	24 .80		
STREETS & SANITATION					
AVIATION - LEADMAN AS					
DETERMINED BY DEPARTMENT					
FOREMAN OF MOTOR TRUCK DRIVERS	22.40	23.10	24.80		
MOTOR TRUCK DRIVER	21-65	22.35	23.55		
TIRE REPAIRER					
GENERAL FOREMAN OF	23.40	24.10	26.30		
MOTOR TRUCK DRIVERS					
* EMPLOYEES IN THE INDICATED BARGAINING UNIT TITLES PRIOR TO 2/13/86 WILL BE PAID THE RED CIRCLED RATES.
Teamsters - Local 726
JUNE 30 JULY 1
1999	2000
JULY 1
2001
JULY 1
2002
RED CIRCLE RATES
AUTO PARTS MAH * *	17.10	17.30	17.50	17.70
AUTO PARTS MAN I/C * *	18.10	18.30	18.50	18.70
GARAGE ATTENDENT **	17.10	17.30	17.50	17.70
GARAGE ATTENDENT I/C **	18.10	18.30	18.50	18.70
RATES FOR EMPLOYEES IN THESE BARGAINING UNIT TITLES PRIOR TO 2/13/86.
Teamsters - Local 726
	JUNE 30 1999	JANUARY 1 2000	JULY 1 2000	JULY 1 2001	JULY 1 2002	JANUARY 1 2003
CHAD Fl-El JR ‘	13.45	13.65	13.99	14.41	14.77	14.99
HEALTH MOBILE OPERATOR	13.45	13.65	14 . 49	14.92	15.29	15.52
GARAGE ATTENDENT *	13.45	13.90	14.25	14.69	15.05	15.28
GARAGE: ATTENDENT T/C '	14.23	14.69	15.06	15.51	15.90	16.14
* EML’IiOYEES IN THE INDICATED BARGAINING UNIT TITLES PRIOR TO 2/13/86
WILT, BE PAID THE RED CIRCLED RATES.
SCHEDULE P JANUARY 1, 1999 CLASS GRADE		TEAMSTERS LOCAL 726				
		ENTRANCE RATE FIRST 6 MONTHS	INTERMEDIATE RATES			TOR BASE RATE NEXT 12 MONTHS
			NEXT 12 MONTHS	NEXT I	12 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	
1	ANNUAL	19,956	20,952	21,996	23,100	24,240
	MONTHLY	1,663	1,746	1,833	1,925	2,020
2 -	ANNUAL	21,996	23,100	24,240	25,476	26,736
	MONTHLY	1,633	1,925	2,020	2,123	2,228
3	ANNUAL	24,240	25,476	26,736	27,972	29,472
	MONTHLY	2,020	2,123	2,228	2,331	2,456
4	ANNUAL	26,736	27,972	29,472	30,936	32,460
	MONTHLY	2,228	2,331	2,456	2,578	2,705
LONGEVITY SALARY SCHEDULE
CIASS GRADE		AFTER 1 YEAR AT TOR BASE RATE i 6 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FIRST LONGEVITY RATE £ 10 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT SECOND LONGEVITY RATE & 16 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT THIRD LONGEVITY RATE £ 20 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FOURTH LONGEVITY RATE £ 25 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE
1	ANNUAL	25,476	26,736	27,972	29,472	30,936
	MONTHLY	2,123	2,228	2,331	2,456	2,578
2	ANNUAL	27,972	29,472	30,936	32,460	34,032
	MONTHLY	2,331	2,456	2,578	2,705	2,836
3	ANNUAL	30,936	32,460	34,032	35,820	37,620
	MONTHLY	2,578	2,705	2,836	2,985	3,135
4	ANNUAL	34,032	35,820	37,620	39,480	41,472
	MONTHLY	2,836	2,985	3,135	3,290	3,456
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 726
SCHEDULE P
JANUARY 1, 2000
CLASS GRADE	ENTRANCE RATE FIRST 6 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	INTERMEDIATE RATES NEXT 12 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	TOP BASE RATE NEXT 12 MONTHS
1 ANNUAL	20,256	21,264	22,320	23,448	24,600
MONTHLY	1,688	1,772	1,860	1,954	2,050
2 ANNUAL	22,320	23,448	24,600	25,860	27,132
MONTHLY	1,860	1,954	2,050	2,155	2,261
3 ANNUAL	24,600	25,860	27,132	28,392	29,916
MONTHLY	2,050	2,155	2,261	2,366	2,493
4 ANNUAL	27,132	28,392	29,916	31,404	32,952
MONTHLY	2,261	2,366	2,493	2,617	2,746
LONGEVITY SALARY SCHEDULE
CLASS GRADE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT TOP BASE RATE 4 6 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FIRST LONGEVITY RATE & 10 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT SECOND LONGEVITY RATE 4 16 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT THIRD LONGEVITY RATE 4 20 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FOURTH LONGEVITY RATE 4 2S YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE
1 ANNUAL	25,860	27,132	28,392	29,916	31,404
MONTHLY	2,155	2,261	2,366	2,493	2,617
2 ANNUAL	28,392	29,916	31,404	32,952	34,548
MONTHLY	2,366	2,493	2,617	2,746	2,879
3 ANNUAL	31,404	32,952	34,548	36,360	38,184
MONTHLY	2,617	2,746	2,879	3,030	3,182
4 ANNUAL	34,548	36,360	38,184	40,068	42,096
MONTHLY	2,879	3,030	3,182	3,339	3,508
SCHEDULE P
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 726
JULY 1, 2000
BASE SALARY PLAN
ENTRANCE
RATE
TOP BASE RATE
CLASS GRADE	FIRST 6 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS
8 ANNUAL	21,996	23,040	24,132	25,284
MONTHLY	1,833	1,920	2,011	2,107
9 ANNUAL	24,132	25,284	26,484	27,744
MONTHLY	2,011	2,107	2,207	2,312
10 ANNUAL	26,484	27,744	29,064	30,444
MONTHLY	2,207	2,312	2,422	2,537
11 ANNUAL	29,064	30,444	31,896	33,408
MONTHLY	2,422	2,537	2,658	2,784
INTERMEDIATE RATES
CLASS GRADE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT TOP BASE RATE 4 5 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FIRST INTERMEDIATE RATE 4 8 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT SECOND INTERMED LATE RATE 4 11 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT THIRD INTERMEDIATE RATE i 14 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE
8 ANNUAL	26,484	27,744	29,064	30,444
MONTHLY	2,207	2,312	2,422	2,537
9 ANNUAL	29,064	30,444	31,896	33,408
MONTHLY	2,422	2,537	2,658	2,784
10 ANNUAL	31,896	33,408	34,992	36,660
MONTHLY	2,658	2,784	2,916	3,055
11 ANNUAL	34,992	36,660	38,400	40,224
MONTHLY	2,916	3,055	3,200	3,352
LONGEVITY RATES
CLASS GRADE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FOURTH INTERMEDIATE RATE A 17 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FIRST LONGEVITY RATE 4 20 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT SECOND LONGEVITY RATE 4 23 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT THIRD LONGEVITY RATE 4 25 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE
8 ANNUAL	31,896	33,408	34,992	36,660
MONTHLY	2,658	2,784	2,916	3,055
9 ANNUAL	34,992	36,660	38,400	40,224
MONTHLY	2,916	3,055	3,200	3,352
10 ANNUAL	38,400	40,224	42,132	44,136
MONTHLY	3,200	3,352	3,511	3,678
11 ANNUAL	42,132	44,136	46,236	48,432
MONTHLY	3,511	3,678	3,853	4,036
SCHEDULE P
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 726
JULY 1, 2001
BASE SALARY PLAN
CLASS GRADE	ENTRANCE RATE			TOP BASE RATE NEXT 12 MONTHS
	FIRST 6 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	
8 ANNUAL	22,656	23,736	24,852	26,040
MONTHLY	1,888	1,978	2,071	2,170
9 ANNUAL	24,852	26,040	27,276	28,572
MONTHLY	2,071	2,170	2,273	2,381
10 ANNUAL	27,276	28,572	29,940	31,356
MONTHLY	2,273	2,381	2,495	2,613
11 ANNUAL	29,940	31,356	32,856	34,416
MONTHLY	2,4 95	2,613	2,738	2,868
INTERMEDIATE RATES
CLASS GRADE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT TOP BASE RATE £ 5 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FIRST INTERMEDIATE RATE £ 8 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT SECOND INTERMEDIATE RATE & 11 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT THIRD INTERMEDIATE RATE £ 14 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE
8 ANNUAL	27,276	28,572	29,940	31,356
MONTHLY	2,273	2,381	2,495	2,613
9 ANNUAL	29,940	31,356	32,856	34,416
MONTHLY	2,495	2,613	2,738	2,868
10 ANNUAL	32,856	34,416	36,036	37,764
MONTHLY	2,738	2,868	3,003	3,147
11 ANNUAL	36,036	37,764	39,552	41,436
MONTHLY	3,003	3,147	3,296	3,453
LONGEVITY RATES
CLASS GRADE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FOURTH INTERMEDIATE RATE £ 17 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FIRST LONGEVITY RATE & 20 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT SECOND LONGEVITY RATE & 23 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT THIRD LONGEVITY RATE £ 25 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE
8 ANNUAL	32,856	34,416	36,036	37,764
MONTHLY	2,738	2,868	3,003	3,147
9 ANNUAL	36,036	37,764	39,552	41,436
MONTHLY	3,003	3,147	3,296	3,453
10 ANNUAL	39,552	41,436	43,392	45,456
MONTHLY	3,296	3,453	3,616	3,788
11 ANNUAL	43,392	45,456	47,628	49,884
MONTHLY	3,616	3,788	3,969	4,157
SCHEDULE P
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 726
JULY 1, 2002
BASE SALARY PLAN
CLASS GRADE	ENTRANCE RATE			TOP EASE RATE NEXT 12 MONTHS
	FIRST 6 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	
0 ANNUAL	23,220	24,324	25,476	26,688
MONTHLY	1,935	2,027	2,123	2,224
9 ANNUAL	25,476	26,688	27,960	29,292
MONTHLY	2,123	2,224	2,330	2,441
10 ANNUAL	27,960	29,292	30,684	32,136
MONTHLY	2,330	2,441	2,557	2,678
11 ANNUAL	30,684	32,136	33,672	35,280
MONTHLY	2,557	2,678	2,806	2,940
INTERMEDIATE RATES
CLASS GRADE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT TOP BASE RATE i 5 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FIRST INTERMEDIATE RATE £ 8 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT SECOND INTERMEDIATE RATE £ 11 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT THIRD INTERMEDIATE RATE & 14 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE
8 ANNUAL	27,960	29,292	30,604	32,136
MONTHLY	2,330	2,441	2,557	2,678
9 ANNUAL	30,684	32,136	33,672	35,280
MONTHLY	2,557	2,678	2,006	2,940
10 ANNUAL	33,672	35,280	36,936	38,712
MONTHLY	2,806	2,940	3,078	3,226
11 ANNUAL	36,936	38,712	40,536	42,468
MONTHLY	3,070	3,226	3,378	3,539
LONGEVITY RATES
CLASS GRADE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FOURTH INTERMEDIATE RATE & 17 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FIRST LONGEVITY RATE & 20 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT SECOND LONGEVITY RATE & 23 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT THIRD LONGEVITY RATE £ 25 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE
8 ANNUAL	33,672	35,280	36,936	38,712
MONTHLY	2,806	2,940	3,078	3,226
9 ANNUAL	36,936	38,712	40,536	42,468
MONTHLY	3,078	3,226	3,378	3,539
10 ANNUAL	40,536	42,468	44,472	46,596
MONTHLY	3,378	3,539	3,706	3,883
11 ANNUAL	44,472	46,596	48,816	51,132
MONTHLY	3,706	3,883	4,068	4,261
SCHEDULE P
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 726
JANUARY 1, 2003
BASE SALARY PLAN
CLASS GRADS	ENTRANCE RATE			TOP BASE RATE NEXT 12 MONTHS
	FIRST 6 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	NEXT 12 MONTHS	
8 ANNUAL	23,568	24,684	25,860	27,084
MONTHLY	1,964	2,057	2,155	2,257
9 ANNUAL	25,860	27,084	28,380	29,736
MONTHLY	2,155	2,257	2,365	2,478
10 ANNUAL	28,380	29,736	31,140	32,616
MONTHLY	2,365	2,478	2,595	2,718
11 ANNUAL	31,140	32,616	34,176	35,808
MONTHLY	2,595	2,718	2,848	2,984
INTERMEDIATE RATES
CLASS GRADE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT TOP BASE RATE & 5 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FIRST INTERMEDIATE RATE t 8 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT SECOND INTERMEDIATE RATE & 11 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT THIRD INTERMEDIATE RATE & 14 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE
8 ANNUAL	28,380	29,736	31,140	32,616
MONTHLY	2,365	2,478	2,595	2,718
9 ANNUAL	31,140	32,616	34,176	35,808
MONTHLY	2,595	2,718	2,848	2,984
10 ANNUAL	34,176	35,808	37,488	39,288
MONTHLY	2,848	2,984	3,124	3,274
11 ANNUAL	37,488	39,288	41,148	43,104
MONTHLY	3,124	3,274	3,429	3,592
LONGEVITY RATES
CLASS GRADE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FOURTH INTERMEDIATE RATE L 17 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT FIRST LONGEVITY RATE & 20 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT SECOND LONGEVITY RATE & 23 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE	AFTER 1 YEAR AT THIRD LONGEVITY RATE £ 25 YRS CONTINUOUS SERVICE
8 ANNUAL	34,176	35,808	37,488	39,288
MONTHLY	2,848	2,984	3,124	3,274
9 ANNUAL	37,488	39,288	41,148	43,104
MONTHLY	3,124	3,274	3,429	3,592	T
10 ANNUAL	41,148	43,104	45,144	47,292
MONTHLY	3,429	3,592	3,762	3,941
11 ANNUAL	45,144	47,292	49,548	51,900
MONTHLY	3,762	3,941	4,129	4,325
• ••-''fl*
-.5
APPENDIX j
Health Care Plan Changes
A. Medical Plan Changes (Effective January 1, 1997/ unless otherwise noted)
1.	Adopt alternative coverage proposal (see attached)
2.	Revise prescription drug plan as follows:
Retail Drugs
(a)
(b)
for drugs on the City's Preferred Drug List, co-payments for up to the lesser of a 34 day supply or 100 units are as follows: (i)$6.00 for generic drugs and brand name drugs for which there is no generic equivalent; and (ii)$6.00 plus the difference between the price of the brand name drug and the generic drug for brand name drugs for which there is a generic equivalent. Said co-payments will be $7.00 effective January 1, 1998 and $8.00 effective January 1, 1999.
for drugs not on the City's Preferred Drug List, co-payments for up to the lesser of a 34 day supply or 100 units are as follows: (i)$8.00 for generic drugs and brand name drugs for which there is no generic equivalent; and (ii)$8.00 plus the difference between the price of the brand name drug and the generic drug for brand name drugs for which there is a generic equivalent. Said copayments will be $9.00 effective January 1, 1998 and $10.00 effective January 1, 1999.
Mail Order-Drugs
(a)	for drugs on the City's Preferred Drug List, co-payments for up to a 90 day supply are as follows:	(i)$5.00 for	generic	drugs;
(ii)	$15.00 for brand name drugs for which there is no generic equivalent; and (iii) $5.00 plus the difference between the price of the brand name drug and generic drug for brand name drugs for which there is a generic equivalent.
(b)	for drugs not on the City's Preferred Drug List, co-payments for up to a 90 day supply are as follows: (i) $10.00 for generic drugs; (ii) $20.0 0 for brand name drugs for which there is no generic equivalent; and (iii) $10.00 plus the difference between the price of the brand name drug and generic drug for brand name drugs for which there is a generic equivalent.
3.	Modify the HMO plan so that all HMO1 s will offer similar levels and types of benefit. The following major provisions would apply:
a.	Brand co-payment of $5.00 per script with mandatory dispensing.
b.	$5.00 per office visit co-payment.
Limit number of HMO's offered to a maximum of three, and provide sufficient geographic provider access to participants as per attached memorandum.
4.
Cover out-patient speech and occupational therapy to the extent that it restores function previously present in an individual who had fully developed skills that were lost due to injury or illness. Therapy to acquire function, or to maintain a level of functioning for a covered person who has not previously reached the level of intellectual, speech, motion or physical development normally expected for the covered person's age would not be covered. Sessions in excess of ten (10) in any calendar year would require approval by the utilization review vendor.
5.	Subrogation language per attached proposal.
6.	Licensed Clinical Social Worker coverage under PPO Plan.
7.	Insurance continuation in the event of layoff increased to end of the month of layoff plus the next four (4) succeeding months; employee required to pay normal share of medical contribution. Continuation is applicable to COBRA period. This paragraph shall be effective as of May 1, 1996.
8.	Term life insurance coverage will be increased to $20,000.
B. Employee Medical Premium
(Employee Medical Premium contributions are set forth in Article 9 of the Agreement.)
Health Maintenance Organizations
Health Maintenance Organization medical coverage shall be offered to employees as an alternative to the PPO medical plan. Effective January 1, 1997 the employer agrees to offer at least three Health Maintenance Organizations offering the same package of covered services during the term of the contract. The HMO's selected by the employer shall provide reasonable geographic access within the boundaries of the City of Chicago.
During the term of the contract, the medical services listed below shall be included as covered so long as such services provide diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury in accordance with generally accepted medical practice and are not experimental or investigational as defined by the HMO:
Semi-private in-patient hospital accommodations in an HMO affiliated hospital, such services to be provided without deductible, subject to the days limits in the certificate of coverage;
Out-patient hospital services in an HMO affiliated hospital, including emergency room care, such services to be provided without deductible;
Out-patient physician services provided by an HMO affiliated physician, such services to be provided after the covered person has paid $5;
Prescription drug services, such services to be provided in accordance with the dispensing protocols of the HMO and after the covered person has paid a co-payment of $5 per prescription with mandatory generic dispensing. Injectable drugs shall be made available on the same co-payment basis as other drugs; and,
Mental Health Treatment services, such services to be provided up to 30 out-patient visits per covered person and no less than 30 days of in-patient care per year. Nothing herein shall prevent the HMO from "trading" in-patient services to increase the amount of out-patient services available to the covered person.
Additional services currently offered by the majority of HMO's offered by the City as of January 1, 1996 will be continued. However, the terms of these additional services will be standardized so that any HMO offered to employees offers the same package of benefits.
All services are subject to medical necessity review and other procedural reviews as required by the HMO. Nothing herein shall require the HMO to offer services in excess of those required by applicable federal, state and local law, ordinance or regulation.
DISABILITY BENEFITS
There are two classifications of disability benefits as follows: ORDINARY DISABILITY BENEFITS are provided for employees who become disabled as a result of any cause other than accidental injury incurred while in the performance of an act of duty.
Ordinary disability benefit is payable to any member of either Pension Fund:
a)	Laborer's Pension Fund, 221 North LaSalle Street, Room 748, Telephone, (312) 236-2065.
b)	Municipal Pension Fund, 221 North LaSalle Street, Room 400, Telephone, (312) 236-4700.
if you are under age 70 for disability commencing after January 1, 1979.
The amount of this benefit, which is called "Ordinary Disability Benefit", is equal to 50% of the employee's annual salary at the time of disablement. However, from such amount the 8 and 1/2% normally contributed for pension purposes up to age 65 is withheld and credited to an employee's account, so that annuity rights continue to increase just as though the employee is working. The net rate of disability payments, therefore, amounts to 41 and 1/2% of annual salary. After attainment of age 65, 7% is normally contributed for pension purposes. Therefore, the net rate of disability payments after age 65 amounts to 43% of annual salary.
Ordinary disability benefit is payable after the first 30 days of disablement, provided the employee is not then in receipt of salary. Ordinary disability benefit is payable until the first of the following:
1)	the disability ceases; or
2)	the date the disabled employee attains age 65 for disability commending prior to attainment of age 60 in the service and after January 1, 1979; or
3)	the date the disabled employee attains age 70 for disability commencing after attainment of age 60 in the service and after January 1, 1979; or
101
70616.1
4)	Che date the payments exceed in aggregate onefourth of the total service, but not to exceed five years. Service for this purpose is counted only from the date a person joined the Fund.
Payment for service rendered prior to the date an employee participant joined the Fund (past temporary service) does not serve to enlarge the period of time for which a disabled employee is eligible to receive disability benefit. Such payments provide additional credit for annuity purposes but NOT for disability benefit.
We might point out that an employee whose disability continues after the receipt of ordinary disability benefit for the maximum period of time and who withdraws from the service while still disabled is entitled to receive an annuity regardless of age.
NOTE:
1)	A Career Service employee must take a leave of absence to protect his/her reinstatement rights. This form is available through your payroll department.
2)	If the disabled employee is an hourly employee, he/she should request a waiver of premium form which is to be filled out by his/her physician so that the employees' health insurance will be paid for by the City of Chicago for the balance of the month and the following 30 days. After which time, the employee must make direct payments.
a)	Contact Benefits Management, Direct Payments for Health Insurance -	(312)
408-1671
b)	Contact your OPTIONAL Life Insurance Company:
Bankers Life & Casualty Company - (312) 396-6000
Metropolitan Universal Life Insurance - 1800-331-9975
102

c)	Contact State and Municipal Teamsters Union Local 72 6 for direct payment of dues to insure your death benefit and Dreaded Disease Policy - (312) 666-5772
d)	Contact your physician for a statement as to your condition and approximation of when you might return to work.
e)	Contact Deferred Compensation (if a member) - (312) 443-1975.
NOTE:
When you are on ordinary disability, the added benefits that are paid for ACTIVE EMPLOYEES by the City Of Chicago, namely DENTAL AND VISION CARE, ARE NOT covered when you are off.
When you are able to return to active employment, you will need your physicians release, which you are to take to the City Physician. (At Mercy Works) . After the City Physician has cleared you to return to work, you are to report to the Administrative Office of the Department for which you work.
If there is an undue delay between your clearance by the City Physician to return to work and the actual day on which you are put back on the City's payroll, you can apply for unemployment compensation benefits through the State of Illinois, (312) 793-5280, for the time you were not receiving disability benefits.
DUTY DISABILITY applies to accidental injuries or illnesses which arise out of and in the normal course of employment duties. It does NOT apply to accidental injuries or illnesses which occur while the employee is not performing his/her normal employment duties.
A City of Chicago employee who incurs a disability injury which arises out of and in the course of his employment is entitled to certain Workmen's Compensation benefits.
1)	If the disabled City employee is a member of either Pension Fund and under 70 years of age, he/she is usually entitled to receive 75% of his average annual gross wages.
103
70616.1
The disabled employee will receive a check from the Committee on Finance Workmen's Compensation Office, Telephone, (312) 744-3388, 'Department of Aviation Employee Only - (773) 686-3533) and one check from his/her Pension Fund:
a)	Laborer1s	Pension	Fund,	221	North	LaSalle
Street, Room 748, Telephone, (312) 236-2065
b)	Municipal	Pension	Fund,	221	North	LaSalle
Street, Room 400, Telephone, (312) 236-4700
These two checks will equal 75% of his/her average annual wages.
2)	If the disabled City employee is 70 years of age or older, he/she IS NOT eligible to receive any duty disability benefits from their Pension Fund. This exemption is clearly stated in the pension laws.
3)	There is no age limitation for eligibility of receiving duty disability benefits from the Workmen's Compensation Division. However, the Workmen's Compensation benefits will not change even if the disabled employee is not eligible for pension benefits.
4)	If the disabled City employee is not a member of the Pension Fund, he/she will not receive any benefits from either Pension Fund.
5)	Duty Disability benefits are paid for seven days per week. They begin the first full calendar day that the disabled employee is off their normal payroll.
6)	If the disabled employee is a member of either Pension Fund and under 70 years of age and is disabled from work for less than 14 calendar days, the Committee on Finance Workmen's Compensation Division or the Department of Aviation Workmen's Compensation Division benefits will not begin until the fourth working day that the employee is off. However, the Pension Fund will pay duty disability benefits sufficient enough to equal 75% of the employee's average annual gross wages for the entire period of time for which the employee is off work.
104
70616.1
7)	If the disabled employee is a member of either Pension Fund and under 70 years of age and is disabled for more than 14 calendar days, the Committee on Finance Workmen's Compensation Division, or the Department of Aviation Workmen's Compensation Division benefits will begin on the first full calendar day that the employee is off work.	The Pens i on Fund will pay t he mone t ary
difference to equal 75% of the average annual gross wages.
8)	Duty Disability benefits are payable to the injured City employee so long as he/she is physically unable to perform their normal employment duties and under the medical supervision of the City Physician.
9)	The City of Chicago's Workmen's Compensation Divisions will authorize payment of the disabled employees' group hospitalization premium. Such payment applies only to those duty disability claims approved by the Workmen's Compensation Divisions.
10)	In order for the disabled City employee to verify that his written report of occupational injury or illness has been properly processed through his/her department, the employee should contact the Safety Section of his/her Department.
a) Dept, of Streets & Sanitation, (312) 744-7804 b) Dept, of Revenue, (312) 744-1593
c)	Dept, of Water, (312) 744-8177
d)	Dept, of Sewers, (312) 747-1687
e)	Dept, of Transportation, (312) 744-3907/(312) 744-6407
f)	Dept, of Aviation, (773) 686-3533/3438
g)	Library, (312) 747-4252
h)	Fire Dept., (312) 746-6923
i)	Police Dept., (312) 747-5562
j)	Health Dept., (312) 747-9796/8790
k)	Dept. of General Services, (312) 744-7399
1)	Department of Fleet, (312) 743-1689
Normally, it will take between three and four weeks from the date of injury to process a duty disability check from the Committee on Finance Workmen's Compensation Division or the Department of Aviation Workmen's Compensation Division to the
105
70616.1

disabled employee. That time period applies so long as the report of the occupational injury or illness is properly completed and processed by the Department.
NOTE:
The approval for such disability claims are voted on for approval only one day each month by both the Committee on Finance Workmen's Compensation Division and by the Boards of the Pension Funds. Therefore, if all the required reports are not completed by said date, the claims will NOT be considered for approval until the following month. Also, an injured City of Chicago employee who is claiming duty disability must complete all of the following requirements so that his/her claim can be properly processed:
1)	Report the accidental injury to his/her foreman or supervisor immediately.
2)	The foreman or immediate supervisor must complete a written report of occupational injury or illness.
3)	Report to the City Physician, at Mercy Works, if so directed by your department.
4)	Report to your Pension Fund Office
a)	Laborer's Pension Fund, 221 North LaSalle Street, Room 748, Telephone, (312) 2362065
b)	Municipal Pension Fund, 221 North LaSalle Street, Room 4 00, Telephone, (312) 2364700
ALL of the above requirements must be completed to process your claim. Then, as was noted under ORDINARY DISABILITY, contact:
1)	Contact your OPTIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY:
Bankers Life & Casualty Company - (312) 3966000 or Metropolitan Universal Life Insurance - 1-800-331-9975
106
70616.1
2)	Contact your Local Union office, (312) 6665772
3)	Contact Deferred Compensation, (312) 443-1975
Important notice for employees on an authorized leave of absence (Ordinary Disability and Duty Disability) regarding life insurance:
If you go on an authorized leave of absence you may continue your optional life insurance coverage for a maximum period of four (4) months. A check or money order should be made payable to Bankers Life & Casualty Company and mail to 5353 N. Elston, Chicago, IL 60630, Attention: Helen Mihail. Be sure to include on the check or money order; your name, your social security number, and the pay period(s) you are paying for.
At the end of the four month period, you may convert to an individual life policy. To convert life insurance you must make a written application to Bankers Life within 31 days after your payment for the fourth month, or telephone (312) 396-6000.
If you pay for the optional life for four months and return to work within one year of the effective date of the leave, the optional life will be reinstated. However, if you do not elect to pay for the optional insurance, it will be considered that you have canceled the life insurance.
When you return to work, you must see your timekeeper. If you have made the payments, the optional life will be reinstated. If you have not made the payments, you must complete a statement of physical condition form, an underwriting authorization form, and an enrollment form. You can obtain these forms from your timekeeper. They should be completed and returned to Bankers Life & Casualty, Attention: Helen Mihail.
Bankers will then advise you of the approval or declination by letter. You must give the approval letter to the Benefits Liaison for the deductions to be made and coverage to commence.
NEW CENTRALIZED DEDUCTIONS
107
70616,1
Beginning with the January 198 9 paycheck, two (2) new payroll deductions will be in effect: "Health Premium" and "Term/Universal" Life Insurance.
The Health Premium deduction represents City employees semi-monthly contribution to health care coverage.
The Term/Universal deduction is a combination of Bankers Optional Term Life and/or the new Metropolitan Universal Life Insurance which some employees have purchased. Both deductions are "centralized" and as such cannot be changed or canceled by department timekeepers. Employees wishing to change any centralized deductions must contact the appropriate central deduction agency. The agency will then communicate the required changes to the Comptroller's Office. Most changes will be made within a 45-day period.
If employees have any questions regarding the new Health Premium or Term/Universal deductions, please refer to the appropriate central deduction agency listed below.
CENTRAL DEDUCTION AGENCY
Health Insurance Premium Term/Universal Life Deferred Compensation Municipal Employees Credit
TELEPHONE
(312) 744-1569 1-800-331-9975
(312) 443-1975
Union	(312) 744-7338
Hope this above information regarding your benefits will assist you, we remain,
Fraternally,
THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF STATE MUNICIPAL TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 726
108
70616.1