
= (>^6C
Memorandum of Agreement
SATURN and the U.A.W.
F& SATLRN @
2000
£>un<X^ = llilu^o - ^/3'/zoo2
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
1.	PREAMBLE
This Memorandum of Agreement (Agreement) is entered into between Saturn Corporation (Saturn), a wholly-owned subsidiary of General Motors Corporation (GM) and the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (Union). Saturn and the Union have long recognized the need for a new approach to. Union/Management relations and the more effective use of human resources in the manufacture of small cars in the United States. Since GM and the Union first met and? authorized the establishment of a study center and the creation of the Corporation, the parties recognize that the . global competitiveness in the auto industry has significantly increased. GM and the Union further recognize the necessity of further developing this. ' innovative approach to Union/Management relations and ■ the necessary staffing to accomplish our mutual objectives. General Motors, Saturn Corporation and the* Union understand fully the necessity to successfully forge ■ a renewed commitment to a cooperative problem solving •r relationship and demonstrate that a competitive, world ’ class, quality vehicle will be developed and manufactured • in the United States with a represented work force. It is in < this renewed spirit of mutual respect and recognition of each other's stakes and equities that this Agreement is. entered into and agreed upon.
1
2.	RECOGNITION
From the outset, Saturn has been and is, a joint effort of both Union and Management. The success of Saturn is fully dependent on its people. Hiring and retention of experienced, dedicated personnel is essential. It is recognized that the best source of such trained automotive workers is found in the existing GM-UAW workforce. Therefore, to insure a fully qualified workforce, a majority of the full initial complement of operating and skilled technicians in Saturn will come from GM-UAW units throughout the United States.
The UAW is recognized as the bargaining agent for the operating and skilled technicians within Saturn.
3.	UNION REPRESENTATION DURING BRIDGING PERIOD
During any bridging period, the Vice President of the " GM Department, UAW, will appoint representatives to
• work jointly with the Saturn organization. The v International Union will charter separate Union locals to represent Saturn members.	.
4.	UNION MEMBERSHIP AND CHECK-OFF
To the extent permitted by law, within ten (10) days after the thirtieth (30th) day following hire by Saturn, all bargaining unit members shall become and shall remain members of the Union to the extent of paying an initiation
fee and membership dues specified by the International Union.
Saturn will agree to provide for check-off of union dues and initiation fees. The Union will agree to indemnify Saturn with respect to any claims arising out of the check-off provisions.
5.	CURRENT GM-UAW NATIONAL AGREEMENT
This separate, free-standing, Agreement will cover bargaining unit Saturn members. The provisions of the current or any subsequent GM-UAW National Agreement will have no bearing on Saturn unless adopted by agreement between Saturn and the Union.
6.	SATURN PEOPLE PHILOSOPHY SUMMARY STATEMENT
We believe that all people want to be involved in decisions that affect them, care about their jobs and each other, take pride in themselves and in their contributions and want to share in the success of their, efforts.
7,	SATURN CORPORATION PHILOSOPHY
i Fundamental to the Saturn philosophy is the shared belief that meeting the needs of people, customers, Saturn members, suppliers, retailers and neighbors is fundamental to fulfilling the Saturn mission.
3
2
8. MISSION
10. STRUCTURE AND DECISION-MAKING PROCESS
The mission of Saturn is to market vehicles developed and manufactured in the United States that are . world leaders in quality, cost and customer enthusiasm, through the integration of people, technology and business systems.
Consistent with being quality and cost competitive, a goal of Saturn is to utilize American-made components in assembly of its vehicles.	.	■ <»; •
9.	SYMBOLS
The structure of Saturn reflects certain basic principles, e.g., recognition _of the stakes and equities of fl everyone in the_organization; full participation by the i Union;” use~oT"a consensus decision-making process; placement of authority and decision-making in the most appropriate part of the organization, with emphasis on the Work Unit; and, free flow of information and clear definition of the decision-making process.
As guided by these principles, the organization will be structured in the following way:
Structure:
( Saturn believes that symbols should. be positive to promote our philosophy and culture. Saturn and the Union will strive to achieve positive symbols that , t- ‘ minimize . the differentiation^ between people in the'. .	.
elements of a successful organization, such.as methods of.;,, pay, purchase of GM products;;.common cafeterias, ,■ ;;-v. parking,, identification, entrances, lack of time clocks, etc.	.
To the^degree possible, recognizing the need to remain,.. competitive, consistency of .treatment for everyone ?'	;
ft (represented and non-represented) will be an important objectivefor Saturn:
■ :	i
WORK UNIT MEMBER
The individual Saturn member.,
WORK UNIT
An integrated group of approximately 8-12 Work Unit member ■''	“ ■
WORK UNIT MODULE
A grouping of Work Units interrelated as to geography, product or technology.
BUSINESS UNITS
An integrated group of Work Units and Work Unit Modules representing common areas.
4
5
MANUFACTURING ACTION COUNCIL
(MAC)
An integrated group of Business Units comprising the entire manufacturing and assembly complex, at a given site location.
TECHNICAL DEVELOPMENT ACTION COUNCIL (TDAC)
An Integrated Business Unit comprising the Advanced product and Manufacturing Engineering Functions, at a "	.
given site location.	w
STRATEGIC ACTION COUNCIL (SAC)
Will have particular concern for long range goals and
health of Saturn, with particular emphasis on planning and outside interested parties, including retailers, suppliers, ■ communities, stockholders, etc. Composition of the SAC will be determined with appropriate input from Saturn and the Union.	,
The Structure also provides for:	1 !
UAW WORK UNIT COUNSELOR ‘
Will be elected by the members in the Unit or jointly ?•	■
selected by the Partiesjind will represent the Union and ; ,	} z.
"SaturirnTtKeWork Unit; the current manner and process,-... ,L for such election will remain in effect until a mutually	»|'
agreed upon selection process is established by the ; j ; j; Parties. The Counselor is a working member of the Work ,	|
Unit.	’ i
UAW COORDINATOR
Will be elected; the manner and process determined by the Union. The UAW Coordinator will serve as administrator of the Agreement on.behalf of and for the Union.
UAW SKILLED TRADES UNIT ADVISOR
Will be elected; the manner and process determined by the Union. The UAW Skilled Trades Advisor will serve as administrator of the Agreement on behalf of and for the Union.	«	. •
' UAW BUSINESS UNIT ADVISOR
Will be elected at large ; the manner and process for such
1	, election to be determined-by the Union. The UAW Business Unit Advisor will serve as administrator of the
, ; Agreement on behalf of,and for the Union.
UAW MAC ADVISOR	-
. Will be elected at large; the manner and process for such election to be determined by the Union. The UAW MAC . Advisor represents the Union and its members as part of
J . the MAC consensus decision-making body. The UAW MAC Advisor serves as the highest local administrator of l
. the Agreement, and as a communication link with the
UAW SAC Advisor.	•
■UAW,TDAC ADVISOR .
? Will be elected at large;,the; manner and process for such
, ’election to be determined by the Union. The UAW
TDAC Advisor represents the Union and its members as
. part of the TDAC consensus decision-making body. The UAW TDAC Advisor serves as the highest Local
6
7
administrator of the Agreement, and as a communication ;
link with the UAW SAC Advisor.	j
UAW SAC ADVISOR
There will be Union representation on the SAC selected by the Union. The manner and process of such selection will be determined by the Union.
Function:
Saturn will be unique in the manner in which the	. :
basic building blocks, the Work Units, will operate. L . ri । Consensus decision-making will be utilized with a strong,.	. t i
focus on both cunent and near term decisions. These	j
Work Units will be self-managed; integrated horizontally ^	. U: ;
and reflect synergistic group growth. These Units will L r have responsibilities to manage such functions as	;..j
producing to schedule, producing.a quality product,	.nn r..
performing to budget, housekeeping, health, safety and , ergonomics, maintenance of equipment, material and	.
inventory control, training, job assignment, repairs, scrapr. j . control and'absenteeism. They will hold meetings, obtain^ ’■ - v,; ; supplies, keep records; seek resources as needed, and be „< responsible for their job preparation. They will constantly . t . ; seek improvement in quality, cost and work environment. ♦ 1
, > The Work Unit will also be responsible for the	. ; ’	.
-planning and the scheduling of the work and . r. ■;_> < -	. .*
communications within and outside the group.	. 1
\	■	■	■	J
; . The Module will be responsible for selection	<’• ' t. J
decisions for acceptance into the Work Units.	I
Appropriate criteria will be used in making such decisions	!
v by utilizing a hiring team consisting of both represented ■ ■ ■ and non-represented module leadership and elected union.
representation.
The Business Unit will do advanced planning for
• resources both short and near term. The Business Units j
/ will be composed of all Work Unit Advisors. The;
Business Units will determine the resources needed by the Work Units, including administration, engineering, ■ < materials, financial, etc.
" The Manufacturing Action Council (MAC) will be - 4 i responsible for living the Saturn philosophy to insure success of-the mission. It will provide the resources ;
•	needed by the Business Units on a timely and cost.; . ■
•	effective basis.	...	/rt- -fi
■	. ,.3JiIn addition, the MAC will represent and protect the... ' <;■ interests,.stakes and equities of the Business Units and the Work Unit members, coordinate the activities of and	-
<	provide information to the Business Units, appraise,the .:
’ performance of the entire organization, and serveas a link.
■■ to Saturn as a whole.. - j	■ j
. / . The Technical Development Action Council (TDAC) h•< will be responsible for living the Saturn philosophy to ; ‘, .insure success of the mission. It will provide the < resources heeded by the Business Unit on a timely and - • cost effective basis. j ’	.y, .
:■ Imaddition, the TDAC will represent and protect the , interests, stakes, and equities of the Business Unit and the . Work Unit members, coordinate the activities of and ' . >
8
9
; \ provide information to the Business Unit;appraise the	; r
■ performance of the entire	; v. . -
'. organization, and serve as a link to Saturn as a whole. • -
The Strategic Action Council (SAC) will undertake the strategic business planning necessary to assure the	,
long-term viability of the enterprise, and will be -	»
f responsive to the needs of the marketplace relative to * M quality, cost and timing. The SAC will obtain, maintain, :	,: •..
and replace the resources necessary to meet the mission in - r concert with the philosophy. It is charged with creating •	।
' the environment, facilities, tools,' education and support - /”•, j j systems' which will enable Saturn -members to perform ; ■<	: (,v' >.
t their responsibilities.	'	r"
> ■ ’•	:	■‘•2 ! •: A
;	11. CONSENSUS GUIDELINES	1
. ■	11'	A	-1.-	■	' l’ ' ■ .	...	(	.■(.
. < • The structure described in Section 10 is intended to
1 make the .Union a full partner in Saturn.. The consensus u. ■ technique is the basic support methodology for Saturn
/.decision-making and. conflict resolution, processes. The-.,/., a: . oarties * agree that'the consensus process, as outlined jj/; . -■■■ below, is the primary method for making decisions.and4c.v./;
1 resolving disagreements.'a ;	>
> a <In the context of Saturn’s philosophy and. mission, ! decisions and disagreements will ..be resolved within .the,^? following guidelines:	■	.
I	1.	-	.	. »I H	1
. Resolution is achieved through the joint efforts -1*. i > i! i	of the parties in discovering the "best" solution..	t?.|
•	The .solution, must, provide at high level of acceptance for all parties.,, /	?
•	Once agreement is reached,, the parties must be totally committed to the solution,
•	Any of the parties may block a potential decision. . However, the party. blocking the decision must search for alternatives.
•	In, the event an alternative solution is not forthcoming, the blocking party must reevaluate the position in the context of; the philosophy and mission.	, ..; .
•	Voting, "trading" and compromise are not part of this process. •	?
•	The joint effort is aimed at discovering the best decision/resolution within the context of Saturn's philosophy and mission while, at the same time, j, rf satisfying the stakes and equities of all major
.. stakeholders.
- r A12.SATURNCONFLICTRESQLUTION
, .	PROCEDURE , , ,, ,	v ..
». ', * .J - is i ‘ ' > ■. . 3 ' • ’* T ' 1 - ‘ r •	*	‘ J:i	: • ", f *■ - '*•
. c, There <is a four-step.problem solving procedure, the
,. i last step of which involves final and binding, arbitration. . .. v
Conflicts may be reinstated in those instances where lhc .<.
, .International Union,.UAW, by its.Executive Board, Public ..
..	. Review Board, or, Constitutional,. Convention, Appeals j..
. .. Committee finds the^conflict was improperly resolved by . ,
. the Union or the Union representative. . .<	, . . -
10
11
SATURNCONFLICT RESOLUTION
MANAGEMENT	UAW , ■ ' x	•Ttaatyw-atai • Saak OMW aab^ canffict null Ilia wadal •Ofatala rvaawx. a. ra^idr ad • ff«waaaltadlwaapi«tta wrM< by UAW Caordlnatar	>, ar UAW Baataoa Unit AMaor ar i. UAWMACIDACAMmv	V • trnrtMlml - Maaapnmit t
Opatattaw Madak *Crrw LuJir ,■ Dpa/Eacto>Mrfa< Malnttnucc Laadar Panph Sy»***» ■	-	r ”	UAW MAC Adrtoar UAW ' * * UAWBatoa. I ‘ .. ' UnltAdvtoar UAW MACZHAAC. ' A«M~r '	,	
SyataW Tom Leader (lalnsIMi *TDAQ . Pacpte SysteMa Ad-rfaaa \ (MAC)	'	UAWBiMnaaa , Uatt Advtow ' UAW SLUM TrvdM ' UahAdvtoor ,, UAWTDAC	‘ ■ ;A-.’ Advtoar '■]	■ j- UAWMAC... ■ Advtoar ■cffonal ’ ‘1 ' ’	•	Tkwrijn-rta, *	Obtain raaawna aa raq^raA *	Saab crinn	cealttct hmMuiwM •» IT Maahad * batt parltor . ■ . ' (■aa nrttMn paaMana <	■ .	- *	'	■ 'J ■
UAW/GM DEFT	. ' UMPIRE STAFF		aai^toa aatectad ? •	Ceatabarad •	latw pimjtad •	Dactoton flnai aad Mndtoc ‘ 4
13.	EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
The philosophy, and mission of Saturn are designed to , - be in full-and complete compliance with the legal and moral' principles of equal opportunity in employment. Accordingly, Saturn/ the Union, and each and every member of Saturn f pledge to treat all persons equally ' • without regard ■ to their race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability or sexual orientation:
......4
14.	RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION
■. ■ ' ‘
The Saturn organization will require people who can fully commit’to the’philosophy and effectively contribute \ . to..its mission. Both parties recognize' the critical ./ importance of a process for recruitment and selection which accurately • and objectively assesses candidate -r qualifications. The’complexity of such a process supports ’ the' establishment jof 'a joint, team to 'work on the? ;
f development and ultimate implementation of such a ■ process in accordance with guidelines to be established by •
- the parties, i In this? regard, because of the-qualifications^, , and experience of the current GM-UAW workforce, they
will-be the primary -source for the initial complement, up ' v to .full capacity , [ of operating - and skilled ' trades ■" : technicians.’ The parties will actively ’ recruit GM-UAW • employees (active and inactive), including communications emphasizing the exciting and unique
• opportunities available in the Saturn culture. It is understood that Saturn membership is conditional on meeting established recruitment and selection criteria.
12
13
17. JOB DESIGN
The Saturn philosophy requires a dedicated and • committed workforce. Accordingly, no active or inactive { UAW-represented GM employee will be required to ' become a Saturn applicant, nor will such, employee's refusalof an'offer of employment by Saturn impact the	‘ ■
employee's benefits under the GM-UAW National1 'Agreement.	'	‘
- i	i	*-/	* ,	;	< L
* 1» 15. ORIENTATION
<•*	’tr ,	s	it;
' ;The Saturn organization will jointly develop and ;	;L
ad minister the pre-hire and post-hire orientation programs for prospective and selected members.' '	<
* • ■	,■■’ t	'	, ■	■ ■.
16. TRAINING
The success of Saturn in meeting its mission in (■ an internationally competitive environment is dependent i! t ,f ' upon’the continuous development and implementation of .	!
new ioois,‘methods and cutting edge technology. Training - *	,
H 1 and education provide the tools necessary for all Saturn ■- <A--? team members'to meet these ongoing challenges, and r programs to meet these goals will be jointly developed -	• i ''
r and administered. To help' assure Saturn's long-term J j/.i ■•••-' viability; jointly developed competency-based training of (	‘	1
all Saturn members is mandatory.	;	\ J ■
In keeping with the Saturn mission and culture, each Work Unit will have the responsibility and authority to produce quality products to schedule at competitive costs. The Units will have responsibility for both direct and indirect work, including training,; housekeeping, provision for relief, etc. Individual jobs will be designed with the appropriate resources to develop , the optimum balance between people and technology, taking into account health, safety and ergonomic issues, with ongoing responsibility to determine methods to become more competitive, s
18.	PLANNING AND RELIEF ’
. Job content within the Work Units will be designed to include both direct work and indirect work. Therefore, it is expected that Work Units will be able to , handle the personal relief needs of individual Saturn members.'-.. .’ .,
,	19.. CLASSIFICATIONS
■. Saturn will have a job classification structure for • represented, members that has the classification of "Operating Technician" to which other than skilled trades, members will be, assigned, and seven;.- additional(s classifications to which all skilled trades members will be . assigned as identified below:
•	Tool & Die
•	Machine Repair
•	Electrical
15
14
•	Stationary Engineer ;
•	Assembly Layout (TDAC only)
•	Model Maker (TDAC only)
•	Model Maker Leader (TDAC only)	I
20.	LENGTH OF SERVICE
New Saturn members will establish a Length of	.
Service date by site location effective with their date of	. >
hire. Length of service will be used as a tie-breaker in	| ■ . t
those unusual situations where competing members are	;
equal in all . respects; and, as a'trigger, point for	* <* •;
compensation progression or specifically t negotiated benefit coverage.	;	j • ■
21.	JOB SECURITY	'
• Saturn recognizes' that people' are ,the most valuable, asset of the .organization? : It is people who. . \. ■ i . develop new technologies andsystems, and people who v : j make these systems work in order to meet Saturn's , ; mission.;.. Accordingly, those Saturn members who are., . ..i.-i... v. eligible-for job security, as defined below/shall not be	> r..
laid off except tn situations which the SAC determines are: 1	‘	.
due to ’ unforeseen or, catastrophic events / or severe./ ... economic conditions. In the event former GM* employees ? ; riUdf»••• (active or laid off) who are required to quit to become; . '.	|
Saturn members are laid off because of such events or-	‘ 1
conditions, the parties will discuss the matter in an attempt ;	;, | /. >
to effect an equitable solution, such as separation >	]. a?.
16	I
payments; return to General Motors or reinstatement of1 GM recall onrehire rights.
A . Saturn; member will have permanent job security eligibility if either of the following applies to that member; ...
•
a. The. member quit while an active <GM-UAW *, T . employee1 or was hired while on layoff with recall ,. ,or rehire rights from a GM-UAW unit in the U.S.
to join Saturn as part of the full initial ■ . complement of operating and skilled technicians
in Saturn; or, .. .
t	> L 1	- * r ' *'	*	r ■	’
■ b. The member is, at any point in-time,, among, the
80% of Saturn members with the longest Saturn Length of Service by site location, t; • ■ 'j	•’	•/	■
Saturn recognizes the desirability of regular employment andiwill attempt to avoid laying off members
. not eligible for job ' security. Tn the unlikely event of a; layoff, at -a site; location,/members, will.be laid .off and recalled: by Saturn Length of Service...	■ - / .
■ ■’ ■ ■.
-	■	22R EWA RD SYSTEM
■	US:	■■	■	--X.. \	\	; .
. ■ -v. \.. .• The rewards system in .Saturn, will recognize, . certain critical elements including the mission and philosophy, the necessityjhat Saturn be profitable and the principle of risk and reward. .	...	.. .	..
17
i
Three basic elements are recognized: base compensation, risk/reward and benefits.
Base Compensation
Saturn members' base compensation is established on an annual salary basis, arid they will be paid semi-monthly on the 15th of the month and the last day of the month.
The base compensation for Saturn members was adjusted to 95% of straight time: base wages of UAW/GM compensation rates. Base compensation will remain at this level until the complete phase-in of risk/reward. Thereafter, base compensation may be adjusted, periodically based on such factors as the general state of • the economy, inflation, the competitive situation, etc., by . approval of the SAC. 1	, ’ ‘ '
Quarterly Payments -	..............
In addition; during the phase-in of risk/reward/ a sum will . be calculated quarterly reflecting the remaining economics ; received by a comparable GM/UAW*employee including. .; . • • -COLA. The total sum generated through this calculation ; will be distributed to members on a quarterly basis.	,
Risk/Reward.
In addition to the base rate,’ risk will be 5% and will be • paid semi-monthly. It will be based on factors such as:
a.	Performance to Objectives of Saturn and Individual Business and Work Units;
b.	Achievement of specific objective productivity targets;
„	-	.	I	J.
c.	Saturn sharing formula through which profits will be shared above a specified level of return to Saturn;	* ...
1	4 * ।	5	' ■ M # J ।
11	d? Quality bonus based on World Class Levels.L •"
’ The risk/reward system will''be designed to provide attainable goals which, if met,'will provide compensation m equivalent to that earned by' comparable employees in
’ GM. ! Performance above or;, below those goals would '1
■' ’ provide greater or lesser compensation than comparable , -
* employees in GM. -	.
Hire Rates and Progression
Operating Technicians	>■	• ;
■*' Former GM employees who were hired while on* layoff
-j1 .• ;*with recall or rehire lights at aiiy Givr piani\$? or quit io ?’-T '.become Saturn members shall receive an initial base rate , -
” ',;at the same relative position to the maximum base rate the
' employee had'attained under: the GM-UAW National5
' ’ /Agreement. Thereafter, they will progress in accordance "'with5 the Hire Rate and Progression Chart (Attachment 5 ' '#1). ; _ . . - ■ .• . '
Former GM employees who did not possess recall br rehire rights at any GM plant’as of the date they become-Saturn: members and new members who have riot.
• ; previously worked for GM will hire in and progress 'as reflected in Attachment#!.	■
18
19
23.	WORKING HOURS
To fulfill the objectives of the Saturn philosophy and mission, it will be necessary to have flexible hours of work that meet the needs of the individual as well as .	. <
Saturn;	’	•
<	24. HOLIDAYS
' ! ; ’ -if- ■ l	>	‘ 1	’
rt ■’ Saturn will observe the following paid holidays'
and all other Holidays as outlined in the 1999 GM-UAW; r? National Agreement and other holidays as determined by^ ‘‘.
-.'the SAC:	} ;	.	■ ■,	■; ■
Martin Luther King Day
Good Friday	:
<	, - Monday after Easter	>	<
Friday before Memorial Day t
J - 5-‘; Memorial Day	-;.	- .	\'
v \ Independence Day ,,	> ;. r>-
Friday before.Labor Day .	■
*	, LaborDay 1	.•	; ; •
;	, t. . . Election Day< >	■ - .	• . -
Veterans Day (Observance) ’
Thanksgiving Day	-
J \ Friday after Thanksgiving	>;
■ J- Christmas Holiday Period
25.	VACATIONS
Vacation with pay will be based on combined Saturn and GM Length of Service.
Length of Service Vacation Entitlement
Less than 3 years	.	80 hrs.
Three but less than five years .	100 hrs.
Five but less than ten years . .	120 hrs.
Ten but less than fifteen years	140 hrs.
Fifteen biit.less than twenty years 160 hrs. Twenty or more years ( . . .	200 hrs.
Vacation schedules must be planned ahead and coordinated within each Work Unit. '
i Unused vacation balances of 40 hours or less (80 hours or . . less beginning in 2002) will be paid in lieu. Unused.
vacation balances in excess will be forfeited.
. Saturn may schedule a shutdown of operations for .vacation purposes. Saturn members entitled to vacation must schedule their vacation during this shutdown period.; It is understood that necessary members may be scheduled to work during the shutdown.
’ i	.	’	, ■	. ,	.	;•
7 ■	•	‘
■ <,' •	t .‘V	.	i' ■■	, V ■	■
20'	21
26.	SHIFT ASSIGNMENTS IN SATURN
The Saturn philosophy emphasizes equality among all members and the shared sense of belonging to a successful operation in which everyone has common needs and goals. Accordingly the rotating shift approach has been implemented by the parties. The feasibility of introducing fixed shifts or other options will be examined by the parties and presented for consideration by the appropriate Action Council.	'* ।
27.	PERSONAL ABSENCE/LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Absenteeism affects the commitment to Saturn and places an unnecessary burden on fellow team members. Accordingly, programs, will be developed to. discourage absenteeism and to encourage regular attendance. Provision will be made for both paid and unpaid leaves of absence.	" . . ■
? 28. CODE OF CONDUCT
The code of conduct for Saturn is established in its mission and philosophy statements, which set forth the basic operating principles of the organization. Actions or behavior that are contrary to these principles may be subject to the Saturn Consultation Process, which will be established by the parties and set out in the Agreement. If counseling and attempts to modify behavior prove ineffective or in instances of severe misconduct, Saturn
22
may initiate disciplinary action or discharge. Complaints concerning .discipline, or discharge must be filed within three (3) working days of the action to be valid.
1	i
29.	SATURN CONSULTATION PROCESS
r’ u...t .........
yThe Consultation Process will include three formal stages:,, (1) 1 Amber Zone, (2) Red Zone, (3) Decision Day. .Members in the Consultation Process will be offered Union Representation to ensure a fair equitable process. In situations where any member's conduct or attitude is adversely affecting the Work .’Unit, initial 1 ; corrective , ■ action	11 concentrate on - consultation,
guidance and review. Such assistance does not affect the " basic, principle.that’the-individual member is, responsible .
for his/her-behavior.-. The parties agree to work toward a / .. variety of approaches to be followed in the attempt to.,, encourage the member to become a full participant in the ■ :. .unit... .■ r. ■	■ - . ;	.
30.	STRIKES, STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS
The philosophy and mission of Saturn and the, , unique culture .created in the,, work environment . are ;
opposed to V unauthorized lockouts, strikes, work , stoppages, sit-downs,, slow-downs, curtailment of, work/j restriction oninterference with production or facilities, picketing, dr similar activities. Further, the parties hereby pledge that no/lockouts or strikes will be authorized : without full and complete compliance with the Procedure to Modify, the Agreement contained herein. ,
23
31. BENEFITS
•'	HSMD	•
The basic approach to HSMD will be provision for a closed panel, either HMO or PPO. Medical, dental, vision, hearing and prescription drugs will be provided at 1 \ .*• HMO or PPO levels comparable to similar provisions in • -the current GM-UAW Agreement. Saturn UAW new • . . hires that are not GM-UAW transfers will automatically * be enrolled, if available, into an .HMO for a minimum of 48 months after date of hire.	.7
Saturn will negotiate coverage with providers to > ■ assure quality care at reasonable cost.
There will be a careful review to determine the feasibility ?•	? h
of establishing an on-site or adjacent medical/wellness 1 clinic as a provider to deliver services such as: '	.	/•
•	In-plarit medical service;	’
•	Routine service for Saturn members and dependents;	*/'■
•	Employee/dependent physicals;	■./,
•	Vv^ciiiicss/ichabuitauon programs,	.	/r
All Saturn members would be provided coverage at date : ;
• of hire. • ,	'	' \ ?•
, t ; 1»	*1	s	' -	,
Retirement Plan '	**■■■’	. T
Saturn members will participate in a retirement plan under which individual accounts will be maintained?,- : for each member/* The funding of such retirement -accounts will’Be at the rate of 8% of the 100% straight time wages of comparable UAW/GM compensation rates.
The value of such accounts will be determined by the contributions and earnings on the funds invested by Saturn for each individual member.
t .
I	•	*'
Saturn contributions, and earnings thereon, will vest in 5 years. Combined GM and Saturn credited . service will be taken into account for - purposes of . determining vesting. 1	'•	■ /	'
1 '/ 1 .*4 At retirement, Saturn members would be given
* »’ > 1 1 the choice of receiving their Saturn Account balance in a
/. i . single cash payment’ or in tHeTorm of a lifetime monthly
.	• retirement benefit.	h
■ ‘hl ' 'Former GM; employees will receive benefits
* 7 v.;‘i under the GM! plan for credited .service at: the' time of ■ >' ./>1 - transfer to Saturn. Benefits under the GM plan.would.be > J .	: based on pension rates in effect at the time of retirement
from Saturn.
Individual Savings Plan	■>	• >. .
...t ■’	* .‘■■An individual savings plan will be offered under
, .	: which-any Saturn member can contribute, up. to' 25% of :
. eligible earnings.	‘	’
’ S&A - Extended Disability Benefits
; All Saturn members will be eligible for Sickness
■rii j; : . .and Accident benefits- the First day after disability ’ * . '	*' commences.. Sickness and Accident benefits percentages
J1	. are based'on Ninety percent (90%) of the straight time
. wages of comparable UAW/GM compensation rates. For the first’ 30 days team members will be paid the full rate, 80% for the next 30 days of the same disability; and 60%
24
25
thereafter for up to one year from the initial date of-;J-disability. In no event will disability pay exceed > combined GM and Saturn credited service.
Extended Disability Benefits will be paid at a fate of 60% for a period equal to combined: GM'and r . • ■ 1 Saturn credited service of less than 10 years. ■ Saturn-1 , members with 10 or more years of combined credited.;
* service will be eligible for 60% until they reach eligibility . for tun-reduced social security benefits.	*
Life Insurance Benefits t 1	•
' ■. ' Saturn believes it is important to plan for the ' '* security of survivors, a responsibility that is shared through the insurance plan. In the case-of death, the.;,i:. .'/‘’’beneficiary named by the-Saturn member will, receive -^‘‘•“•benefits from'the plan according to the level of coverage,,, as follows: .	•	.
a.	Saturn will provide 2.0 times the 90% level of
■« . straight time wages of comparable UAW/GM1 compensation rates num uic date Gi employment r." . r/ ■ as a member.	1
b.	Each member may purchase additional coverage at special rates in multiples up to five (5) times ■: 1 ‘ ' base compensation through payroll deduction. ■
:1 ■■ ■	c. Optional dependent coverage ’ of up to $35 ;000
for spouse and $14,000 for each dependent child ".	is also available at special group rates. .	- ;
v. ’. '1 .	r. -
/ 32. COMPONENTS MANUFACTURING
Many decisions are yet to be made regarding the integration of the Saturn complex which were reviewed and* discussed during the,’Agreement process. As thesev issues arise in the future/ the-parties agree to review the s. * specifics of the component -part(s) being considered to.-, determine if Saturn can;be competitive in quality and cost.
33.	PROCEDURE TO MODIFY THE AGREEMENT
• Once an Agreemenl-is-ratified and becomes; r effective; it will remain in- full , force and effect unless:
. ; modified by the parties.' However, in the event the parties e/f ■wish !to conduct , formal- /negotiations on an r entire,.
Agreement once a full complement^ members has been. ■ hired, such negotiations will be concluded no later than .if six - months: after the 'commencement of steady state as. r described herein. The parties are specifically empowered, -.
\ lO ihoaC i uulu any Satisfactory iiiOMlflCuiiGiiSi uuultiOHS, OF f -deletions to the Agreement-which are in-line with the > philosophy and mission of Saturn oh an ongoing basis. In T. the event either party is unable to secure agreement on a-s; -< modification(s) it (desires; •'such .party may institute, thist ,;/ - . Procedure to Modify the Agreement; .
; ~ *	i/'A.1. Notice of Request to Modify the Agreements .
■ < The; party 'seeking the • modiffcation(s) will ..furnish the . other, party a written Notice of Request tto Modify .--Agreement in the form of a . letter ■ from the UAW SAC-. Advisor to the Vice President People Systems in the case
26	27
of the Union, or vice-versa in the' case of Management, listing the’ provision(s) the party’ wishes to modify or cancel and/or briefly describing any new provisions it may wish to negotiate. Thereafter, the parties will meet on this request and attempt to resolve the issues using the principles of conflict resolution/ ■ '
B. - Notice of Intent to Lockout or Strike
If after thirty (30) calendar days from the date the Request is received, the parties are unable to reach consensus, the initiating party for Saturn Corporation or the UAW SAC Advisor for the Union may serve a written Notice of Intent to Lockout of Strike in the same manner as described in "A" above.' Thereafter, if a satisfactory agreement is not reached after negotiations Tor five (5) ’> working days from receipt of this'Notice, >the moving * «• party may initiate its action.:
.. ' ■ . ........ '..t. . ,
34. RATIFICATION
/	' Provisions for ratification and- notice'thereof will be ■
!	’	>	provided.r	<
h	I	T	■	J11	,	T ’
COMMITMENT OF PARTIES
Saturn and the Union acknowledge that the matters set out . 4 ’r ’ ’in this memorandum are neither all inclusive nor c fd complete.' The parties acknowledge’that in arriving at this t ‘ Agreement, additional matters have been extensively'	.'u*
discussed and serve as the UAW/Satum Guiding Principles for the parties to follow in fulfilling the mission .
of Saturri?and in their relationships with each other. It is 1 the intention of the parties to rely upon those principles to ' *' provide guidance for future agreements. • ■ ‘
INTERNATIONAL UNION, UAW
■Stephen P. Yokich
,. Richard;Shoemaker
..Ken Terry
Bobby Lee Thompson
. Harold Cox Gary Casteel
, . Earnestd Emery
UAW LOCAL 1853
Ron Hankins
T /Jeep Williams
Dennis Rowe
Bryan Czape
. SATURN CORPORATION
' * '5 ' .1	~	'.U'
-Gary L-Cowger ■ .;/■ i > Brian G. McClelland Dennis.G, Finn DahiehT.Koenn • ;*<
28
■r-..
29
Attachment#!
Reward System
Hire Rate and Progression Operating Technician
HR, ,6 .,12	,.18	24 . 30	36-
V MONTHS
‘ December 12, 1999
Ms. Cynthia Trudel!
< President, Saturn Corporation
100 Satum Pkwy., P. O. Box 1500 Spring Hill, TN 37174
* ■ . Dear Ms. Trudell:
; . This letter is to reconfirm the support that the International Union, ' UAW, has for the Satum Corporation. The parties recognize that the ’	• * Corporation is marketing vehicles in a highly competitive market.' As
> >	,,rsuch, the job security of Satum members is defined by the success that
r<.‘. Saturn achieves within this market.	•
’ The Union continues to be fully committed to key fundamental ’ .	: principles which enhance the Corporation's success capabilities. These
commitments include a full and active support of the’partnership;!
■■ maximization of programs that enhance the safety and well being of Satum members, all1 efforts to make cost per car reductions to world class levels, and the requirement that continuous improvement be institutionalized and made effective in the day to day manufacturing : • r operations.	.
" The International Union looks forward to the continued success of the Satum Corporation, it’s UAW members, and above all, enthusiastic
1 customers that become Satum family members through their ownership f	of Satum cars that are world leaders in quality, cost, and customer
; satisfaction.	,	‘	’
. .. ... f Sincerely,	”
** k hard	*	♦	- - r	■	i
‘ 7 ■ Vice President and Director	. ■.	*
,. • UAW General Motors Department	,
30
31
December 9, 1999
International Union
United Automobile Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, UAW
Attention: Mr. Richard Shoemaker
Vice President and Director General Motors Department Gentlemen:
In the spirit of the recent negotiations,.the General Motors Corporation, ■ Satum Corporation and the Union have recognized and agree to and re-. commit to the Saturn Mission and Philosophy laid down in the Memorandum of Agreement as it pertains to the future marketing, development, and design of product and processes, and the sourcing of
. any Satum components. Further, it'is understood all mutual practices, procedures, understandings, staffing and Agreements remain in full , effect. Problems or issues arising out the course of these events will be resolved as outlined in the Memorandum of Agreement with the overriding principle of the Mission and Philosophy applying.
Sincerely,
Brian G. McClelland
, Vice President .
People Systems	':
BGM/tlw
32
33
December 14, 1999
International Union, United Automobile Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, UAW
ATTENTION:	Mr, Richard Shoemaker
Vice President and Director General Motors Department
Gentlemen:
' During the' course of negotiations with the Saturn Corporation, it was agreed that certain General Motors employees who become Saturn ;
members during the term of the 1985, and any subsequent Saturn , Agreement and who have 10 or more years of credited service under The L General Motors Hourly-Rate Employees Pension Plan will be provided r1 with* post-retirement health care and life insurance coverages under the ';, GM-UAW Agreement in effect at the time the employee retires from j1 Saturn Corporation.	-	■	■;
- ■ Such post-retirement coverages would be provided if any of the ■ following conditions are met at retirement from Saturn:
1.	The Saturn member has attained age 60.
2.	The Saturn member has attained age 55 but riot age 60, and the total of the member's age and the member's combined years of GM and Saturn service (to the nearest 1/12 in each case) is 85 or more.
, 3. The Saturn member has 30 or more years of combined GM and Saturn service.
■4	■ ,	.
Verv tnjlv voiirx.	.
GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION
Gary L Cowger
Vice President	'
35
December 12,.1999
December 8, 1999
Mr. Richard Shoemaker Vice President and Director UAW General Motors Department 8000 East Jefferson Avenue Detroit, Ml 48214 Dear Mr. Shoemaker: Satum and the Union recognize the need to have certain UAW positions within Satum appointed by the Union. As such, appropriate positions	1 .. t will be identified by the SAC and appointments jointly, selected will be	r approved by the International Union SAC officer. Individuals selected . j <-•: < ■ and approved for these positions will be held accountable within their	, 1 r capacities to. fulfill the stakes and equities of the UAW and Satum ,	• > Partnership.	. ,	' . \'*”■	.	■	■ ■ ;	.,»'t Any problems relating to the implementation of this letter may be raised , •./.	; by either Satum or the Union, and it is understood that any necessary modification may be made by consensus agreement between Satum and -	< ■ < the Union. Sincerely,	,	> • \ > Brian G. McClelland	,	■ Vice President	.> People Systems	, .. ■ < 36 ■ 1 *■	V-,. .	.	Mr. Richard Shoemaker Vice President and Director General Motors Department International Union, UAW 8000 East Jefferson Avenue Detroit, Michigan 48214 Dear Mr. Shoemaker: ‘.	Per our discussions, and in accordance with Article 5,‘ current GM/UAW National Agreement of this Memorandum of Understanding, the relocation allowance specified in Paragraph (96a)(2)(b) of the 1999 GM-UAW National Agreement applies to Saturn UAW members who may be employed into Satum from GM-UAW.in the future. ■'	In addition. Paragraph (96a)(3) (repayment of TRA Benefits) of the 1999 GM-UAW National Agreement applies to said members. Brian G. McClelland Vice President . People Systems	' 37
Decembers, 1999
Mr, Richard Shoemaker
Vice President and Director
General Motors Department
International Union, UAW 8000 East Jefferson Avenue Detroit, Michigan 48214
Dear Mr. Shoemaker:
Effective 1/1/2000, Saturn will establishe a VEBA Trust fund to provide for post retirement health care for non-grandfathered Saturn members. Funding will be established at 2.8% of base salaries of nongrandfathered members 'for calendar years 2000 and 2001. The funding -rate will be increased to 3.0% beginning in calendar year 2002 and to 3.2% beginning in calendar year 2003.
Eligible participants will include non-grandfathered retirees and ,	.
surviving spouses. Saturn members who were previously employed at GM under the GM/UAW Hourly Pension Plan must meet eligibility ।
■ requirements as otherwise provided under GM/UAW.provisions for ■
■. * retireee health care. Saturn non-grandfathered members who did not ; previously work at GM under GM/UAW Hourly Pension Plan must retire at age 60 or more with 10 years credited service to be eligible for . VEBA Trust retiree health care benefits.
Coverage provided from the VEBA Trust for retiree health care r . coverages will be comparable to active Saturn members health care r,.
provisions including medical, surgical, drug, vision and dental under the traditional, PPO and HMO options.
Saturn and the UAW agree that funds within the Individual Medical Benefit Account, the Group Medical Benefit Account and the VEBA Trust applicable to members who transfer to GM and become eligible . for GM retirement health care shall be forfeited and used to offset future ■ < . contributions to the VEBA Trust.
The VEBA will be established in a manner satisfactory to both parties, • and will be jointly administered as agreed to by the parties.
Sincerely,
Brian G. McClelland
Vice President
People Systems	^9
38
July 23, 1985
Mr. Alfred S. Warren, Jr.
Vice President
General Motors Corporation
General Motors Building
Detroit, Michigan 48202
Dear Mr. Warren:
This will confirm that the discussions regarding the proposed Memorandum of Agreement between Saturn Corporation and the International Union; UAW, I advised you of the following:
The UAW views Satum as a special project designed to maintain small car production with a high degree of domestic content in the United States that will provide jobs having compensation andbenefits which . will maintain the standard of living now enjoyed by our members.
The UAW considers the proposed Memorandum of Agreement as a ."special case" because it is specifically designed as an integral part of the Satum approach.
Therefore, the UAW does not consider this Memorandum of Agreement as a precedent regarding the Union's policy at any other facility, including those at General Motors.
Sincerely, Owen Bieber President
40
41