7J1
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
FISCAL YEARS 2000-2002 between
AFSCME AFL - CIO, COUNCIL 67 and LOCAL 44 and
THE NEW BOARD OF SCHOOL COMMISSIONERS OF BALTIMORE CITY
CONTENTS I	/ N
Memorandum of Understanding................................................6
ARTICLE 1	Declaration of Principle, Policies and Purpose..................6
ARTICLE 2	Recognition............................................................6
A.	Recognition
B.	Unit Lists
C.	Changes in Job Classification
ARTICLE 3	Checkoff...............................................................7
A.	Dues Checkoff
B.	P.E.O P.L.E. Deduction
C.	Hold Harmless
I
ARTICLE 4	Discrimination........................................................ 7
A.	Discrimination Prohibited
B.	Rights Guaranteed
ARTICLE 5	Management Rights...................................................’■	• • • 8
ARTICLE 6	Grievance and Arbitration Procedure..................................  8
A.	Grievance Defined
B.	Time Limits
C.	Resolution of a Grievance
D.	Cost of Arbitration
E.	Computing the Time Limits
F.	Suspension and Discharge Grievances
ARTICLE 7	Union Stewards & Union Representation......................................10
A.	Representation
B.	List of Union Stewards & Alternates
C.	Designation of Steward & Alternates
D.	Grievance Processing Time Off With Pay
E.	Chief Shop Steward
ARTICLE 8	Seniority...............................................  ;............10
A.	Seniority Factored
B.	Reduction-ln-Force
C.	Seniority in Layoffs
D.	Promotions
E.	Volunteer Layoff
ARTICLE 9	Holidays...............................................................11
A.	Holidays and Holiday Pay
B.	U. S. Congressional Election Day
C.	Voting Time
D.	Holidays Falling on Weekends
E.	Holiday Work Premium Pay
F.	Sick Leave
G.	Holiday Pay Eligibility
H.	Required to Work
ARTICLE 10	Vacation Leave........................................................13
A.	Vacation Leave & Accrual
B.	Vacation Requests and Usage
C.	Rates Vacation Pay
D.	Vacation Accumulation
E.	Holidays During Vacation Period
F.	Vacation & Early Closings
G.	Use of Vacation
H.	Vacation Accrual
I.	Vacation Accrual After Return From Layoff
J.	Vacation Accrual & Reemployment
K.	Vacation Retained on Transfer
L.	Leave of Absence
M.	Legal Heirs of Deceased Employee
N.	Retirement and Resignation
0.	Vacation Accrual - Part Time Employees
P.	Probationary Period
ARTICLE 11	Sick Leave.....................................................15
A.	Sick Leave
B.	Sick Leave Accrual
C.	Accumulation
2
D.	Sick Leave Conversion
E.	Retirement and Resignation
F.	Sick Leave Upon Retirement or 20 Years of Service
G.	Denial of Sick Leave
H.	Usage
I.	Notification to Employee
J.	Periodic Verification
K.	Return to Position after Childbirth
L.	Illness on Holidays
M.	Extended Sick Leave
N.	Permanent Part-Time Employees
O.	Catastrophic Illness of Injury of Immediate Family
ARTICLE 12	Other Leave...........................................................17
A.	Death Leave
B.	Job Injury Leave
C.	Civil Defense Leave
D.	Military Training
E.	Jury Service
F.	Leave Without Pay
G.	Union Conventions
H.	Personal Leave
ARTICLE 13	Hours of Work.........................................................21
A.	Hours of Work
B.	Regular Work Week
C.	Work Shift
D.	Work Schedules
E.	Lunch Period
F.	Meal Allowance
G.	Outside of Regular Shift
H.	Shift Differential
I.	Emergency Situations
ARTICLE 14	Overtime..............................................................22
A.	Overtime
B.	Computation of Overtime
C.	Distribution of Overtime
D.	Voluntary
E.	Overtime Rate of Pay
F.	Shall Not Vary or Rearrange Work Schedules
G.	Out-of-Title
□
ARTICLE 15	Safety & Health..............................................      23
ARTICLE 16	Bulletin Boards.................................................   23
ARTICLE 17	Health and Welfare.................................................24
A.	Contributions
B.	Health Maintenance Organization
C.	Death benefits
D.	Extended Sick Leave
E.	Leave Without Pay - Personal Illness
F.	Drug Program
G.	Joint Labor/Management Committee
ARTICLE 18	Departmental Concerns..............................................26
A.	Department of Education
B.	Commercial Drivers License
ARTICLE 19	Rates of Pay........................................................26
ARTICLE 20	Visitation........................................................  27
ARTICLE 21	Travel Allowance.....................................................27
ARTICLE 22	Discipline and Discharge .........................................  27
A.	Discipline
B.	Discharge/Reduction/Suspension for More than 30 Days
ARTICLE 23	No Strike or Lockout..............................................  28
A.	No Strike or Lockout
B.	Unauthorized Strikes
C.	Discipline of Strike Participants
ARTICLE 24	SES/Temporary Employees.............................................28
ARTICLE 25	Union Security......................................................29
A Implementation of Representation Fee
B Amount of Purpose of Representation Fee
C.	Notice to Employees
D.	Collection of Fee
E.	Indemnity
ARTICLE 26	Longevity.......................................................... 30
4
ARTICLE 27	Pension & Related Benefits.........................................30
A.	Annuity Savings Certificate
B.	Employee Pension Counseling Service
ARTICLE 28	Employee Assistance Service....................................... 31
ARTICLE 29	Training Program...............................................    31
ARTICLE 30	Sub-Contracting.................................................... 31
ARTICLE 31	Out-of-Title Work.................................................  31
A.	Labor Class
B.	Exempt, Competitive, and Non-Competitive Classes.
C.	Study out-of-title practices
ARTICLE 32	Uniforms..........................................................32
ARTICLE 33	Miscellaneous Provisions.......................................... 33
A.	Mistake on Employee's Pay
B.	Deferred Compensation Plan
C.	Additional Transportation Expenses
D.	Use of Masculine Pronoun
E.	Committees
ARTICLE 34	Conformity to Law...................................................33
ARTICLE 35	Termination, Change or Amendment....................................33
APPENDIX A	Listing of AFSCME Classes......................................    36
APPENDIX B	Salary Schedules......................................................
INDEX...............................................................................
5
This Memorandum of Understanding entered into this----2000 between The New Board of
School Commissioners ("EMPLOYER") and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, Council No. 67 and Local No. 44 (“UNION”). To the extent that implementation of these points requires action by the Board of Estimates ("BOARD") and/or the City Council, and/or The New Board of School Commissioners of Baltimore City, this Memorandum will serve as a request and recommendation to such bodies that it be so implemented.
ARTICLE 1
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLE, POLICIES & PURPOSE
It is the intent and purpose of the Union and the Employer to promote and improve the efficiency of the operations of the Baltimore City Public School System, Department of Education. In order to render the most efficient public service to the citizens of the City, the Union and Employer agree that this goal can best be achieved through an orderly, constructive and harmonious relationship between them. The parties hereto are in further accord that effective employee relations in the public service requires a clear statement of the respective rights and obligations of labor and management and for this purpose enter into the following Memorandum of Understanding.
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNITION
A.	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive negotiating representative of all eligible employees in units for whom the Union has been certified pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance (ARTICLE 1, SECTIONS 119-137, OF THE BALTIMORE CITY CODE, 1983 REPLACEMENT VOLUME, AS AMENDED).
t
B.	The Employer agrees to furnish the Union on a monthly basis a complete list of titles and rates of pay for all classes within the Union's jurisdiction.
C.	The Employer shall notify the Union of all changes in job classifications or class specifications. The Union, if it requests, shall have the opportunity to discuss such changes with the Employer.
6
ARTICLE 3
CHECKOFF
A.	The Employer agrees to deduct Union dues and service fees from the pay of any employee whom the Union is certified to represent and who authorizes such deductions in writing, pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance. The Employer shall transmit all such monies withheld to Baltimore Municipal Employees Local 44, AFSCME, AFL-CIO on a monthly basis. Such authorization shall be continued from year to year unless revoked in writing prior to the employee's anniversary date.
B.	P. E. O. P. L. E. Deductions. The Employer agrees to deduct from the pay of each employee from whom it receives an authorization to do so the monthly amount authorized by the employee for the Public Employees Organized for Political Legislative Equality (P. E. 0. P. L. E.). This voluntary authorization may be revoked at any time by notifying the BCPSS in writing of the desire to do so. A list of the employees from whom the deductions have been made and the amount deducted from each and a list of the employees who had authorized such deductions shall be forwarded to the Union no later than thirty (30) days after such deductions were made.
C.	The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any and all claims, grievances, actions, suits or other forms of liability or damages that arise out of or by reason of any action taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Section, and the Union assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the funds deducted under this Section as soon as they have been remitted by the Employer to the Union.
D.	BCPSS will provide up to 1 hour during orientation for a Union representative to meet with new employees.
ARTICLE 4 DISCRIMINATION
A.	The provisions of this Agreement shall be applied equally to all employees for whom the Union is the certified representative, without discrimination as to age, sex marital status, race, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, disability, or sexual orientation.
B.	The Employer and the Union agree that they shall not interfere with employees in the exercise of their rights guaranteed under the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance.
C.	The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 makes it unlawful to discriminate in employment and employment practices against a qualified individual with a disability. In accordance with this provision of ADA, the parties acknowledge the Employer's duty to
7
provide reasonable accommodations to a disabled individual and the Employer shall take all actions necessary to comply with the Act.
ARTICLES
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Employer shall have all of the rights set forth in Article 1, Section 123, of the Baltimore City Code as well as rights set forth and identified in Senate Bill 795, approved by the Maryland General Assembly during the 1997 Legislature Session.
ARTICLE 6
GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
A.	Subject to any limitations of existing law, any grievance, defined in the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance (SECTION 120 (F) as a dispute concerning the application or interpretation of the terms of this Agreement or a claimed violation, misinterpretation or misapplication of the rules or regulations of any municipal agency or the Employer affecting the terms and conditions of employment, may be settled in the following manner.
Step 1: The Union Steward with the aggrieved employee shall discuss the grievance with the employee's immediate supervisor within ten (10) calendar days, and in no event more than thirty (30) days, from the date of the events or conditions, or his knowledge thereof, which provide the basis for the grievance. The employee's immediate supervisor shall attempt to adjust the matter within ten (10) calendar days of the presentation of the grievance.
Step 2: If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 1, a written appeal may be taken to the employee's next higher supervisor on a form to be provided by the Employer and approved by the Union within five (5) calendar days following the completion of Step 1. The supervisor shall meet with and discuss the grievance with the Union Steward, the President of the Local Union or his designee and the aggrieved employee within five (5) calendar days of the written appeal. An answer to the grievance shall be submitted to the aggrieved employee and to the President of the Local Union in writing on the said form within five (5) calendar days.
Step 3: If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 2, a written appeal may be filed on said form with the Chief Executive Officer within five (5) calendar days following the completion of Step 2. Within five (5) calendar days of such an appeal, the Chief Executive Officer or management representative designated by him shall meet with the Union Steward,
8
the President of the Local Union, a council representative and the aggrieved employee to discuss the grievance. The Chief Executive Officer or his designee shall respond in writing on the said form within ten (10) calendar days thereafter.
Step 4: If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 3, a review by an impartial arbitrator may be requested within seven (7) calendar days following the completion of Step 3, by filing a written notice with the Chief Executive Officer.
(a)	If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved within ten (10) days following the completion of Step 3, then either the Union or the Employer, but only the Union or the Employer, may request that the grievance be arbitrated before a neutral arbitrator selected for that purpose. A copy of the notice or demand for arbitration shall be delivered to the Office of the Chief Executive Officer. Thereafter, either party may request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to provide a list of seven (7) arbitrators who each are members of the National Academy of Arbitrators, FMCS Area No. 7. An arbitrator shall be chosen by alternately striking names from the list, the last name remaining being the arbitrator chosen. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties to the arbitration.
(b)	The arbitrator shall be without power to add to, subtract from, change or alter any provision of the Agreement, Board policy, or of applicable State or local law.
(c)	The arbitrator shall confine himself to the precise question presented for arbitration and shall have no authority to determine any other question.
(d)	The arbitrator may hear or decide more than one (1) grievance if jointly requested by the parties.
(e)	The cost for the services of the arbitrator, including per diem expenses, if any, and actual and necessary travel and subsistence expenses, will be borne equally by the Employer and the Union.
B.	Time limits under this Article may be changed by mutual agreement.
C.	If the finding or resolution of a grievance at any step of the procedure is not appealed within the Prescribed time said grievance will be considered settled on the basis of the last answer provided, and there shall be no further appeal or review. Should the Employer not respond within the prescribed time, the grievance will proceed to the next step.
D.	The cost of any arbitration proceedings under this Agreement shall be equally divided between the Employer and the Union.
E.	In computing the time limits under this Article, the date of the preceding event shall be counted.
9
F.	The procedures for processing any grievance arising out of any discharge, reduction in pay or position, or suspension for more than thirty (30) days shall be as prescribed in Article 22 hereof. No resolution of a grievance shall expand or otherwise amend the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 7
UNION STEWARDS & UNION REPRESENTATION
A.	The Employer recognizes and shall deal with the appropriate accredited Union Steward in areas to be defined by the parties and, where provided for in this Agreement, with the Union President and/or Council Representative in all grievances filed under this Agreement.
B.	A written list of the Union Stewards and alternates shall be furnished to the Employer immediately after their designation and the Union shall notify the Employer promptly of any changes of such Union Stewards.
C.	There shall be no more than one Chief Shop Steward for this Agency.
D.	After appropriate notice to his immediate supervisor, the Union Steward shall be granted reasonable time off during working hours when he is engaged in processing a grievance under Article 6 of this Agreement.
E.	The Union shall appoint one employee as Chief Shop Steward. The Chief Shop Steward shall devote his/her working hours with pay to the processing of grievances under Article '6 of this Memorandum and to the administering of this Memorandum.
ARTICLE 8 SENIORITY
A.	The Employer and the Union recognize the principle of seniority as a factor in promotion, layoff, reemployment transfer and other conditions of employment, and recognize the need of . maintaining an efficient work force. The application of seniority under this Article shall prevail where the principle does not conflict with any provision of applicable law.
B.	In the case of reduction-in-force or the elimination of a position:
10
(a)	Classification seniority within the division shall be given, provided the employee's productivity is satisfactory.
(b)	An employee who has been identified for layoff shall be able to displace a less senior employee in a lower classification in a job series within the same layoff unit provided he is qualified and able to perform the duties of the job.
For the purpose of this Paragraph, seniority shall be defined as the total length of continuous service in the higher and lower classifications.
C.	An employee who displaces an employee in a lower classification shall be placed on the reemployment list established for the higher classification.
D.	Before an employee's effective layoff date is scheduled, he (she) shall be entitled to:
(1)	convert to cash his (her) accumulated vacation and personal leave, or
(2)	continue his (her) employment status until all accumulated vacation and personal leave has been exhausted. In either event, sick leave for the then current sick leave year shall be converted at the time of employment termination to cash payment on a one (1) for four (4) basis as provided in Article 11 of this Memorandum.
E.	As pertains to employees in the labor class, the following provision shall apply: Promotion shall be made on the basis of seniority when the senior eligible employee within a division is capable of performing the work in the higher classification.
F.	In case of a reduction-in-force, an employee with twenty (20) years or more of continuous service may volunteer to be laid-off. The employee must send a written request to the agency head asking that he be selected for lay-off. If the agency head approves the request, the employee must also meet the Employees' Retirement Systems (ERS) eligibility requirements.
G.	The Union will encourage employees to notify the Baltimore City Public School System of their interest in other positions for which they qualify. The Baltimore City Public School System will continue to make good faith efforts to notify employees of vacancies by posting job announcements where notices to employees are customarily posted.
ARTICLE 9
HOLIDAYS
A.	Leave with pay shall be granted for the following days referred to herein as holidays:
Holidays
11
Local 44 employees of the Department of Education shall observe the following holidays:
January 1 January February March/April	New Years Day Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday President’s Day Good Friday & 2 additional days during Spring Break
May July 4 September November December	Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Thanksgiving Day & day after Thanksgiving Christmas Day & day after Christmas
B.	U.S. Congressional Election Days, which occur on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November in even numbered years, shall also be observed as a holiday.
C.	In the case of an election other than general or congressional, and upon request, the Employer shall allow employees who are eligible and registered to vote up to two (2) hours leave, if necessary, for the purpose of voting without loss of pay
D.	If a holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday will be observed as the holiday, if a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday will be observed as the holiday. In the case of employees working on a schedule other than Monday through Friday, if one (1) of the listed holidays falls on one (1) of the employee's regular days off, he shall be granted another day off within the same pay period or not later than the following pay period, or be paid one day's pay. Management will consider employee requests for a substitute day off within the time frame specified above.
E.	Whenever a holiday falls on a regular workday of a biweekly employee engaged in shift work,- and the employee is required to work a second shift on that holiday he shall be allowed holiday allowance plus time and one-half (P/2) for all hours worked on the first shift and holiday allowance plus time and one-half (P/2) for all hours worked on the second shift.
F.	An employee scheduled to work on a holiday who calls in sick shall be charged for sick leave on that day. Failure to notify the supervisor of illness will result in no pay for that day.
G.	To be eligible for holiday pay, an employee must be in pay status at least one (1) day in the payroll period in which the holiday occurs.
H.	Employees required to work on a holiday will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (P/2) times their regular hourly rate of pay for each hour worked in addition to their holiday pay.
12
ARTICLE 10
VACATION LEAVE
A.	Vacation leave for employees covered by this Memorandum of Understanding is accrued in relationship to the length of continuous service with the Employer as follows
1.	Employees with less than six (6) years of service shall earn vacation leave of one (1) working day for each month of completed service, or a total of twelve (12) days per year.
2.	Employees who have six (6) but less than eleven (11) years of completed service shall earn vacation leave of one and one-quarter (114) working days for each month of completed service, or a total of fifteen (15) days per year.
3.	Employees who have eleven (11) but less than fourteen (14) years of completed service shall earn vacation leave of one and one-half (1 l/z) working days for each month of completed service, or a total of eighteen (18) days per year.
4.	Employees who have fourteen (14) but less than nineteen (19) years of completed service shall earn vacation leave of one and three-quarters (1%) working days for each month of completed service, or a total of twenty-one (21) days per year.
5.	Employees who have completed nineteen (19) or more years of continuous service shall earn vacation leave of two (2) working days for each month of completed service, or a total of twenty-four (24) days per year.
B.	Vacation may be taken by employees entitled thereto subject to approval of their supervisor. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Requests for vacation shall be completed by the employee on the prescribed agency form and submitted to the supervisor at least one (1) week prior to the first day of leave, if the leave is to last one (1) week or more. Except in cases of emergency, leave request for amounts of time less than one (1) week are to be submitted at least one (1) full working day prior to the expected start of the leave. While every effort shall be made to meet the desire of employees requesting their periods of vacation leave, vacation schedules must conform to the requirements of operations and vacations must be taken as scheduled by the supervisor. Conflicting requests for vacation shall be resolved on the basis of seniority.
C.	Pay for all vacation days will be based on the employee's regular rate of pay.
D.	Employees may use only earned vacation leave. Employees shall be allowed to accumulate vacation leave up to the maximum number of days eamable for a four (4) year period as determined by their current rate of accrual.
13
E.	Any holiday as defined in this Memorandum which falls within an employee's scheduled vacation shall not be counted as a day of vacation leave.
F.	Employees on vacation leave on any day of early closing shall be charged the full vacation leave that they would have been charged if the early closing had not occurred.
G.	An employee may use vacation leave in units of no less than four (4) hours a day or 1/2 day increments.
H.	Vacation leave shall accrue provided that the employee is in a pay status at any time during the payroll period in which his anniversary date occurs.
I.	Prior service shall be recognized in computing vacation entitlement of employees who had permanent status at the time of layoff due to lack of work or lack of funds and who are subsequently reemployed.
J.	Employees who are reemployed, except as defined in I, above, following a break in service of thirty (30) or more work days, shall be considered as new employees for the purpose of computing vacation allowance.
K.	Whenever employees transfer from one (1) permanent position to another permanent position without a break in service they shall be entitled to retain their vacation balance.
L.	Employees may, when granted leave of absence for military service, utilize their accrued vacation. If such vacation leave is not utilized, it shall be retained pending their return to service.
M.	In addition to accrued vacation, the legal heirs of employees who die shall be granted a bonus equivalent to the amount of vacation to which the employee would have been entitled for twelve (12) months of service, provided, however, that if within six (6) months immediately prior to the employee's date of death, the employee had been granted extended sick leave in excess of the bonus entitlement, bonus leave shall not be approved.
N.	Employees who are separated from service, regardless of reason, shall be paid in full as of their date of separation for any accumulated vacation, personal leave, overtime or bonus pay, except in the case of bona fide indebtedness to the Employer. The cutoff ticket must contain, therefore, a record of all leave due the employee upon his separation.
0.	Part-time permanent employees shall accrue vacation leave in accordance with the following schedule.
14
1.	Part-time permanent employees with less than six (6) years completed continuous service shall be credited with one (1 ) day vacation leave when they have worked a total of one (1) hundred sixty (160) hours.
2.	Part-time permanent employees with six (6) but less than eleven (11) years of completed continuous service shall earn vacation leave of one and one-quarter (114) working days for each one hundred sixty (160) hours worked.
3.	Part-time permanent employees with eleven (11 ) but less than fourteen (14) years of completed continuous service shall earn vacation leave of one and one-half (P/2) working days for each one hundred sixty (160) hours worked.
4.	Part-time permanent employees with fourteen (14) but less than nineteen (19) years of completed continuous service shall earn vacation leave of one and three-quarters (1%) working days for each one hundred sixty (160) hours worked.
5.	Part-time permanent employees with more than nineteen (19) or more years of continuous completed service shall earn vacation leave of two (2) working days for each one hundred sixty (160) hours worked. In each instance, the vacation day shall be eight (8) hours............
P. Employees who have not previously served a probationary period shall earn vacation at the rate of one (1) day per month of completed service and shall be entitled to use their accumulation upon the completion of their probationary period of six (6) months. The probationary period shall not interfere with the employee's privilege of using sick leave or personal leave as it is accumulated provided, however, that in the event a probationary employee's service is terminated, all accumulated leave shall be forfeited.
ARTICLE 1 1
SICK LEAVE
A.	Sick leave with pay shall be received by employees who have accrued sick leave and who are required to be absent from duty because of personal sickness, injury or pre- or post-natal disability.
B.	Sick leave shall accrue at the rate of one (1) day for each month of completed service, provided that the employee is in pay status at any time during the payroll period in which his anniversary date occurs.
C.	There shall be no ceiling on accumulation of sick leave.
15
D.	Employees may convert to cash one (1) day of unused sick leave for each four (4) days of sick leave accrued during the sick leave year at their rate of pay at the time of conversion. The sick leave year begins on the day immediately following the last payroll period in November and extends through the last payroll period in November of the following year. All sick leave days not converted to cash shall be carried forward and retained as accrued sick leave. Payment for converted sick leave shall be made no later than December 24 each year.
E.	Employees who resign or terminate employment after June 1 of any year shall be entitled to convert to cash one (1 ) day of unused sick leave for each four (4) days of sick leave accrued during the then current sick leave year.
F.	In addition to their accrued vacation leave, employees who are pensioned or who elect to terminate their service without pension and have completed at least twenty (20) years of service, shall be entitled to a bonus of one (1) day's pay for each four (4) days of accumulated sick leave at the time of their retirement and/or termination from BCPSS service.
G.	Sick leave will not be granted where there is evidence of abuse of the sick leave principle through malingering or false application for such leave.
H.	An employee may use sick leave in units of no less than one-tenth (1/10) of a day and in equal increments thereof.
I.	Employees shall notify their supervisor prior to the start of the employee's work shift on the first day of absence due to illness, and at such intervals as specified by the supervisor for the duration of such absence.
J.	All use of sick leave is subject to verification, including periodic examination by the Employer's physician.
K.	Sick leave with pay shall be granted for pre- and post-natal disability to an employee who is disabled to such a degree that she is unable to provide service to the Employer. The Employer and the Union recognize that this disablement will occur, in most cases, during the period four (4) weeks before and six (6) weeks after delivery.
An employee who is temporarily absent from her position due to reasons described above and who remains on the payroll in either a "S" or "SX" status due to that continuing disability, and . who is not on a leave of absence, shall be allowed to return to her respective position at the end of the disability.
L.	Should a day designated herein as a holiday occur while an employee is on sick leave, that day shall be observed as a holiday and shall not be charged against sick leave.
16
M.	An employee with at least three (3) years of BCPSS service and who is unable to return to work after all of his accrued sick leave, vacation leave and personal leave have been exhausted may request extended sick leave with pay. If the Department Head deems such an extension advisable, he may recommend it to the Baltimore City Public School System. Such request must be accompanied by a medical certificate. No extension, however, may exceed one (1) day per month of completed service (OR IN THE CASE OF PART-TIME PERMANENT EMPLOYEES ONE (1) DAY FOR EACH ONE HUNDRED SIXTY (160) HOURS WORKED). Upon return to work and after accumulating ten (10) sick leave days, an employee receiving this benefit must reimburse the Baltimore City Public School System for one-half (lZ>) of the extended sick leave days granted.
N.	In the case of part-time permanent employees, sick leave shall accrue at the rate of one (1) day sick leave for each one hundred sixty (160) hours worked. A day of sick leave shall be equal to a regular full time work day of an employee covered by this Memorandum.
0.	For each year of this Agreement (i.e., July 1, 2000 to June 30, 2001 And July 1, 2001 to June 30, 2002) employees may use up to five (5) days of their accumulated sick leave for the sole purpose of caring for an immediate family member who has a catastrophic illness or injury. Each approval shall be based on the concurrence from the Office of Occupational Medicine and Safety. Illness or injury shall include but not be limited to a personal injury or disease such as cancer, heart disease, automobile accident, etc. For catastrophic illness or injury the provisions for the Office of Occupational Medicine and Safety shall be used which are contained in AM 203-2. Approved Family Leave shall not be charged as an occasion under the BCPSS Attendance Monitoring Program. "Immediate Family" shall be consistent with the definition contained in Article 12, Other Leave paragraph A. (DEATH LEAVE).
P.	An employee may utilize accumulated leave for appointments with doctors and dentists, which appointment could not be scheduled at other times. Sick leave used with prior supervisory approval for such appointments will not count as an "occasion" under the Attendance Monitoring Program. Such requests should be made as soon as possible prior td the date of the appointment, but not less than ten (10) working days prior to the appointment.
Q.	The Board agrees that if at all possible it will continue participating in the Sick Leave Bank established previously with the City of Baltimore.
ARTICLE 12
OTHER LEAVE
A.	Death Leave
Four (4) consecutive work days leave with pay shall be granted upon request in the event of a death in an employee's immediate family. The immediate family shall be considered as: father, mother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparents, sister, brother, spouse, children, grandchildren, step and half-blood relatives. One (1) day's leave of absence will be authorized
17
for the death of aunts and uncles. This one (1) day leave of absence must be taken within four (4) calendar days of the date of death or on the day of the funeral of the relative if the funeral occurs more than four (4) days after the date of death.
The four (4) days shall commence, at the option of the employee, on the day of death or the day following the day of death. In the event the deceased relative lived in the same household as the employee making the request, the deceased shall also be considered to have been a member of the immediate family:
Employees who require additional time off beyond these four (4) days may request and shalhbe granted additional reasonable time off charged to vacation or personal leave.
The Employer may ask for information to document a request for death leave due under this Article if there is a reasonable cause to believe that an employee who has requested the leave has abused the benefit or misrepresented his or her right to demand time off for the leave.
B.	Job Injury Leave
1.	When an employee sustains an occupational (ON-THE-JOB) injury in the actual performance of duty and is unable to work, he shall be granted full pay, not chargeable to any earned leave, for a period not to exceed six (6) months for each accident, provided that such lost time is certified by the BCPSS. However, no employee shall be entitled to receive Workers' Compensation benefits for temporary total disability during the time, or covering the period, that said employee is receiving his or her full salary for job injury leave as outlined above. When injuries which require absence beyond five and one-half (5V2) months occur, the following shall apply:
Under the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Law of Maryland the employee shall receive Workers' Compensation in the amount fixed or determined by law. The difference is charged to sick leave to the extent available, including extensions at the rate of one-half (l/z) day sick leave charged for each full day of leave taken.
2.	Special medical examinations of employees shall be requested only by the appointing agency except in situations where an evaluation is needed in connection with a pending job injury related claim or the employee is under the continuing care of the Office of Occupational Medicine.
3.	In no event shall such leave be extended beyond the duration of one (1) year from the date ■ of the employee's job related injury or accident. At the expiration of said period, the employee shall have the option of:
(a)	remaining in pay status by using accumulated sick, vacation and personal leave days or,
(b)	filing an application for accident disability retirement.
18
4.	Time lost due to job related injuries or accidents which disable an employee for a period in excess of the above mentioned one (1) year shall be compensated for in accordance with the Workers'Compensation Law of Maryland.
C.	Civil Defense Leave
Any employee who is an accredited volunteer of a Civil Defense Organization may be granted permission by the head of the department, -bureau, or other municipal agency in which he is employed to participate in Civil Defense pre-emergency training programs and test exercises during working hours without loss of pay or vacation, subject to the following conditions: •
1.	A request for such permission shall be made in each instance in writing to the appropriate department, bureau or agency by the Civil Defense Director of Baltimore City.
2.	The total amount of time for which permission may be granted to any employee for the purposes outlined shall not exceed forty (40) hours in any calendar year.
D.	Military Training
All employees who are members of the organized militia or the Army, Navy, Air or Marine reserves shall be entitled to leave of absence from their respective duties, without loss of pay, time or reduction in efficiency rating, on all days during which they shall be engaged in field or coast defense or other training ordered or authorized under any law of the United States, during such time as they are on annual inactive duty training, for a period not to exceed fifteen (15) working days in any calendar year; provided, however, if any members of the organized militia are ordered to active duty in the event of an emergency, they shall be entitled to leave of absence without loss of pay, time or efficiency rating for such time while actually serving under such active duty orders, in addition to the fifteen (15) working day period specified above.
E.	Jury Service
An employee who is required to perform jury service in any court (CITY, FEDERAL OR COUNTY) shall be paid his regular salary. Employees shall notify their supervisor immediately by memorandum attaching a copy of their summons. An employee who reports for Jury duty and is dismissed, shall report to work for the remainder of the working day. The BCPSS will not longer deduct from wages the funds paid by the jurisdiction for jury service.
F.	Leave Without Pay
1.	Upon application in writing any employee may be granted a leave of absence without pay, not to exceed one (1) year, for the reason of personal illness, illness in the immediate family or disability. Extensions of leaves of this nature shall be mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Union.
19
2.	Any employee elected or appointed as President, Vice President or Council Representative of the Union shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the term of the election or appointment to his office or any extension thereof.	. .	-
3.	Education Leave. After completing one (1) year of continuous service, any employee, upon request and upon the approval of the appointing officer, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for education purposes. The period of the leave of absence shall not exceed nine (9) months, but may be extended or renewed upon the request of the employee and with the concurrence of the appointing officer.
Leaves of absence for educational purposes shall not be granted more than once every three (3) years.
The Employer and the Union agree to cooperate in the development of job training upgrading, apprenticeship and career ladder programs.
4.	Prior creditable BCPSS service shall not be forfeited if an employee is granted a leave of absence without pay. An employee on a leave of absence without pay for more than thirty (30) calendar days shall not lose any accrued leave or seniority while on such leave of absence ..
In the event a leave of absence without pay exceeds thirty (30) calendar days, the employee's seniority and increment dates will be delayed one (1) day for each day of the leave of absence, except for any employee who is on leave of absence without pay for military service.
G.	Union Conventions
The Employer shall grant leave without loss of pay to employees officially designated as delegates to regularly scheduled Union conventions and conferences, provided that during any one (1) calendar year not more than fifteen (15) such employees shall be granted such leave and no employee shall be granted such leave more than once.
H.	Personal Leave
Permanent employees are entitled to three (3) personal leave days per year. Three (3) personal leave days shall be accrued at the rate of one-fourth (!4) day for each month of completed service. At no time may an employee accumulate more than eight (8) days' personal leave.
Personal leave shall not be denied unless it materially interferes with the performance of the agency's functions; provided, however, the employee requests such leave with at least three (3)'. working days' notice. In bona fide emergency situations, the three (3) days' notice may be waived. Request for personal leave for religious holidays shall not be denied.
Employees will be paid for unused personal leave when separated from the BCPSS.
20
I.	Effective July 1, 1990, an employee may use vacation leave, personal leave, and sick leave in units of no less than one tenth (1/10) of a day and in equal increments thereof. All new hires into the unit after July 1, 1998 must use personal leave in at least U day increments.
ARTICLE 13
HOURS OF WORK
A.	The regular hours of work each day shall be consecutive except for interruption for lunch periods.
B.	The work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive work days, except for employees in continuous operations.
C.	A maximum of eight (8) consecutive hours, including a paid forty (40) minute lunch period, shall constitute a work day. All employees shall be scheduled to work on a regular work shift, and each work shift shall have a regular starting and quitting time.
D.	Work schedules showing the employees' shifts, work days and hours shall be posted on each department bulletin board at all times.
E.	All employees shall be granted a lunch period during each work shift. Whenever possible, the lunch period shall be scheduled at the middle of each shift.
F.	An employee required to work three (3) or more hours immediately following the completion of a normal full time work shift shall receive a meal allowance of $5.00.
G.	Employees called into work outside of their regular shift shall receive pay for a minimum of four (4) hours at the rate of time and one-half (114) their regular pay. Any employee called to or required to work prior to or after his regular shift, but annexed consecutively to one end or another thereof, shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (114) times his regular rate of pay only for the time so worked, but in no event less than one (1 ) hour, and the aforesaid four (4) hour minimum provision shall not apply. The employee shall then be paid for the balance of his regular work shift at the appropriate rate. Nothing herein shall be construed to mean compounding of overtime.
H.	Employees regularly assigned to night or shift work shall be paid (.35) cents per hour above the established rates for each hour worked on shifts which commence between the hours of 2:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. This provision shall not apply to watchmen, guards or employees whose emergency assignments start or carry into the above named periods. When applicable, night differential shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate. Shift differential will become part of an employee's base pay for paid leave purposes after he has been assigned to an eligible shift for thirty (30) consecutive days.
21
I.	Shift and other employees shall not be required to work more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours without an eight (8) hour break except in the case of an emergency endangering life, health and safety. If an employee is required to work for more than sixteen (16) consecutive hours under such an emergency situation, that period shall not exceed twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.
ARTICLE 14
OVERTIME
A.	All hours worked in excess of the regularly scheduled work day or in excess of the regularly scheduled work week shall be considered overtime and paid for at the rate of 1 V2 times the normal straight time rate of pay. The overtime rate of pay provided for in this Section shall apply to employees in sanitary collection and street cleaning services on assignment or task work after completion of the assignment or task or eight (8) hours.
B.	All paid leave shall be considered time worked in the computation of overtime.
C.	Overtime work shall be distributed equally to employees working within the same job classification in each work area. The distribution of overtime shall be equalized over each sixmonth period beginning on the first day of the calendar month following the effective date of this Memorandum, or on the first day of any calendar month this Memorandum becomes effective. Insofar as practical on each occasion, the opportunity to work overtime shall be offered to the employee within the job classification who has the least number of overtime hours to his credit at that time. If this employee does not accept the assignment, the employee with the next fewest number of overtime hours to his credit shall be offered the assignment. This procedure shall be followed until the required employees have been selected for the overtime work. A record of the overtime hours worked by each employee shall be posted on the department bulletin board monthly.
D.	Overtime work shall be voluntary except in the event of an emergency. There shall be no discrimination against any employee who declines to work overtime, except in the event of an emergency, but a record shall be kept for each employee and posted, showing the number of hours of overtime he refused to work.
E.	Overtime Rate of Pay.
1.	The overtime rate of pay for all hours worked on the seventh consecutive day worked in a regular work week shall be at the rate of two (2) times the normal straight time rate of pay.
2.	Where in the normal operation of a department, work is regularly scheduled on Saturdays and/or Sundays, no more than ten (10) days of work shall be scheduled for any employee in each fourteen (14) day period, unless there is an emergency or unforeseen circumstance.
22
3.	If an emergency or unforeseen circumstance occurs an employee working this schedule shall be paid one and one-half (U/2) times his hourly rate for all hours worked in excess of ten (10) regularly scheduled days during said fourteen (14) day period except that for all hours worked in excess of twelve (12) days during said fourteen (14) day period, the employee shall be paid two (2) times his hourly rate.
F.	The Employer shall not vary or rearrange work schedules to avoid the payment of overtime.
G.	When an employee in a single work week works at two or more different types of work for which different straight-time rates have been established, the employee will receive paid overtime for the type of work that is performed during the overtime hours at the higher rate for all hours over forty (40) in a work week.
ARTICLE 15
SAFETY AND HEALTH
The Employer and the Union shall cooperate in the enforcement of safety. Should an employee feel that his work requires him to be in unsafe or unhealthy situations, the matter shall be considered immediately by the Employer. If the matter is not adjusted satisfactorily, it may become the subject of a grievance and will be processed according to the grievance procedure. If an employee feels that a piece of motor vehicle equipment he must operate is unsafe, he shall immediately report it to his supervisor who shall make an immediate inspection. No employee shall be required to operate an unsafe piece of motor vehicle equipment.
A Joint Labor/Management Committee shall be established to review safety standards, accident related causes and other safety matters to promote employee safety. In addition, a Joint Labor/Management Safety Committee shall be established with equal Union and BCPSS representatives to discuss safety and health issues as they relate to AFSCME Local 44 employees.
ARTICLE 16
BULLETIN BOARDS
The Employer agrees to provide reasonable bulletin board space labeled with the Union's name, where notices of official Union matters may be posted by the Union.
23
ARTICLE 17
HEALTH & WELFARE
A.The method of calculating Employer and employee health insurance plan contributions shall continue for the Open Enrollment in Fall of 2000 for January 1, 2001 effective date. Effective January 1, 2001 the employer and employee contribution for Health Care, will be subject to reopened negotiations, which will be effective on or after July 1, 2001. Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO) shall be fully funded (100%) by the BCPSS during the term of this agreement.
B.	BCPSS shall offer health plan options including a Point of Service health maintenance organization and open access network programs.
C.	Effective July 1, 2000, all employees will be enrolled in the universal prescription drug program. Effective July 1, 2000, all employees will pay $42.00 annually ($4.20/ten months or $3.50/twelve months) with a $5.00 copay for each prescription filled for the generic drug program. Effective July 1, 2001, all employees will pay for each prescription filled as follows
1.	$5.00 for generic drugs
2.	$10.00 for brand drugs
D.	Part-time employees covered by this Article must consistently work an average of 50% of a regularly scheduled work week to be eligible for this benefit.
E.	The life insurance benefit for an active employee shall be an amount equivalent to the deceased employee’s annual salary on the date of the employee’s death.
The death benefit as stated above may be paid in advance to employees who are catastrophically ill. An employee who is catastrophically is characterized by all of the following: (1) the employee is totally disabled and therefore cannot work for the BCPSS or any other employer in an active or limited capacity; (2) the employee’s medical prognosis shall state that the death of the affected employee within a sixmonth period; and (3) the affected employee must apply for an ordinary disability retirement allowance or a service retirement allowance, to be eligible for the catastrophic illness payment.
The claim must be filed within (6) six months after the claimant has become incapacitated or disabled and is unable to return to work.
The BCPSS Department of Human Resources shall be charged with administering the catastrophic illness benefit determining the eligibility of the claimant for said benefit. Upon request, the employee shall furnish the Department with any and all data and documentation pertaining to the claim. The Department may order examination of the claimant by a physician of its choice. No benefits may be paid for injuries or disabilities
24
for which compensation was paid under (1) Worker’s compensation laws or ( 2) accidential disability provisions of the retirement system.
If the claimant’s death occurs before the BCPSS has made a final determination that the illness is catastrophic, but the catastrophic illness benefit has not been paid, the payment shall be made to the named beneficiary.
In the event of ordinary death, The Employer shall supplement the lump sum death benefit provided by the Employees’ Retirement system in order that the total benefit received shall equal the greater of $15,000 or the employee’s annual salary.
In the event of accidental death, the employee shall receive the greater of $15,000 or the employee’s annual salary, in addition to any pension received under the Employees’ Retirement System.
An employees coverage under this provision shall terminate upon separation except that employees represented by AFSCME shall be covered by a reduced death benefit to $5,000 if they retire from BCPSS employment.
F.	The Employer shall continue to pay its share of Health and Welfare premiums for employees on extended sick leave; provided the employee continues to pay his or her share, if any.
G.	In the event an employee is on leave without pay for personal illness, the Employer shall continue to pay its share of the cost of his/her health coverage for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days; provided the affected employee continues to assume his appropriate contribution for said coverage.
H.	The BCPSS shall offer a vision program, which will include fashion frames as allowed.
I.	A Joint Labor Management Committee consisting of representatives from AFSCME Local 44, as well as representatives of other labor organizations and duly appointed designees of the Board shall be created to discuss health care issues and concerns which will meet on a regular basis.
J.	Dental Plan- Effective on or after July 01, 2001 the new HMO contract will not offer dental coverage. The average annual cost between what was paid for the prior dental plan for one year will be used to establish a stand alone dental coverage plan. This will be accomplished at no additional cost to the BCPSS.
25
ARTICLE 18
DEPARTMENTAL CONCERNS
A.	Department of Education
If normally scheduled pay-day for school based BCPSS employees in the bargaining unit falls on a school holiday on which the employees are not scheduled to work and the paychecks for those employees are received at the job cites, and available for distribution on the workday before the holiday, the paychecks shall be distributed to the employees.
B.	Commercial Drivers License
The parties recognize that by 1992 the drivers of certain BCPSS vehicles will be required to pass certification standards set by federal law. The Employer agrees that it shall provide training programs necessary to qualify those presently employed as drivers. It also shall continue its commitment to literacy by training those current employees who may be at risk to fail an attempt at certification because of functional illiteracy. In that regard, to the extent that resources may be available from local, state or national organizations with which it is affiliated, the Union shall also support training and literacy programs. For those current employees who do not successfully pass the new Federal and State imposed certification requirements, the Employer will attempt to place employees into positions, provided a vacancy exists which has been authorized to be filled and the employee meets the qualifications for the position.
ARTICLE 19
RATES OF PAY
(A)	First Year: Effective July 1, 2000, employees on the Full-time Salary Schedule shall receive a salary increase of 3%. Employees on the Part-Time Salary Schedule shall receive a salary increase properly pro-rated and based on the preceding.
(B)	Members of the bargaining unit as of July 1, 2000 shall receive a salary increase of 1% effective January 1, 2001.
(C)	Second Year: Effective July 1, 2001 there will be a wage reopener for the 2001-2002 school year.
(D)	Effective on or after January 1, 1992, a Section 125 Plan will be implemented whereby the employee's contributions to health care, vision, and prescription programs would be excluded from Federal and State taxes. It is mutually agreed that AFSCME Local 44 will continue to provide positive assistance in the enrollment process through active communication of the Section 125 Plan features to its members.
26
ARTICLE 20
VISITATION
An officer or accredited representative of the Union shall, upon reasonable request by the Union, be admitted to the property of the Employer during working hours for the purpose of discussing or assisting in the adjustment of grievances under Article 6 of this Agreement, provided that he does not interfere with the performance of duties. Each Union representative wishing to be admitted to the property of the Employer for this purpose shall notify the appropriate management representative in advance. The Employer agrees that during working hours, on the Employer's premises and without loss of pay, designated Union representatives shall be allowed to:
1.	Post official Union notices as defined above.
2.	Transmit communications, authorized by the local Union or its officers, to the Employer or its representative.
ARTICLE 21
TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
The travel allowance rate shall be thirty-one (31) cents per mile.
ARTICLE 22
DISCIPLINE & DISCHARGE
A.	Discipline
Disciplinary action may be imposed upon an employee only for just cause. If the Employer has reason to reprimand an employee, it shall be done in a manner that will not embarrass the , employee before other employees or the public.
B.	Discharge, Reduction in Pay or Position, or Suspension for More than Thirty (30) Days Employer shall not, except for such cause as may interfere with the efficient discharge of the employee's duties, discharge any employee who has completed his probationary period; nor shall the Employer reduce in pay or position or suspend any such employee without just cause. The employee and the Union will be promptly notified in writing giving specific reasons for discharge, reduction in pay or position, or suspension for more than thirty (30) days.
1.	In the event of a discharge, reduction in pay or position or suspension for more than thirty (30) days, the appointing officer shall schedule, if requested, an informal conference with the affected employee and his Union representative within five (5) calendar days from the date of the notice of such action. The Labor Commissioner or his designee may be requested by the parties to participate in such conference.
27
2.	In the event an employee, who has completed his probationary period is discharged, reduced, or suspended for more than thirty (30) days, such employee and/or his Union representative may request an investigation by the BCPSS. The BCPSS shall, as part of its investigation, refer such request to its Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing no later than fifteen (15) days from the receipt of such request.
The Hearing Officer, at the conclusion of such hearing shall make findings of fact and recommendations which shall be forwarded to the BCPSS for its determination, within fifteen (15) days after the hearing. The BCPSS shall take action on such recommendation within fifteen (15) days thereafter. Copies of the Hearing Officer's findings and recommendation shall be sent to the aggrieved employee, the Union representative and the Department Head. Said hearings shall be recorded and the records retained for thirty (30) days. In the event an employee is reinstated and the BCPSS recommends back pay, the Employer shall comply with such back pay recommendation.
ARTICLE 23
NO STRIKE OR LOCKOUT
A.	The Union and its members, individually and collectively, agree that during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding, there shall be no strikes, slow-ups, stoppage of work, and the Employer agrees that there shall be no lockout.
B.	In the event of an unauthorized strike, slow-up, or stoppage, the Employer agrees that there will be no liability on the part of the Union provided the Union promptly and publicly disavows such unauthorized strike, orders the employees to return to work and attempts to brings about a prompt resumption of normal operations, and provided further that the Union notifies the Employer, in writing, within forty-eight (48) hours after the commencement of such strike, what measures it has taken to comply with the provisions of this Article.
C.	In the event that such action by the Union has not effected resumption of normal work practices, the Employer shall have the right to discipline, by way of discharge or otherwise, any member of the Union who participates in such strike, slow-up or stoppage, and no such disciplinary action shall be subject to the grievance procedure provided for in this Memorandum of Understanding.
ARTICLE 24
SES/TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
Effective January 31, 2001, SES/Temporary employment will be based on the BCPSS SES Policy and Procedure. SES/Temporary employment is a form of employment intended to
28
meet short-term operational and instructional needs for the Baltimore City Public School System. Such employment shall not exceed ninety (90) working days, may be either full-time or part-time, and will not be renewed. The ninety working days must be completed within a six (6) month period of time.
SES employees receive no vacation, sick leave, personal leave, or holiday pay.
ARTICLE 25
UNION SECURITY
Representation Fee
Provided the Union complies with the provisions of this Article, the following shall apply to members of the bargaining unit except those exempted pursuant to Article 1, Section 130 of the Baltimore City Code:
A.	Implementation of Representation Fee
Should the Union desire to implement the collection of a representation fee as permitted under the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance, the Union must first follow the rules announced for such procedure by the Supreme Court in Chicago Teachers Union v. Hudson, 475 U.S. 292 (1986). The Union agrees to develop an appropriate procedure for protecting the constitutional rights of all agency fee payers, which procedure shall include the right of any employee who is required to pay the fee to object or dissent from the fee, and to obtain a reasonably prompt decision from a neutral arbitrator on the issues in dispute. Once appropriately implemented by the Union, all employees who are covered by this Agreement but who are not members of the Union or who were once members of the Union but withdraw from Union membership shall (AS A CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT) pay to the Union, each month their fair share of the cost of services rendered by the Union that are chargeable as a representation fee. The determination of the fee, collection, escrow, disputes, and other procedures relating to the representation fee shall be governed exclusively by the terms and conditions that are described in rules adopted for the purpose by the Union, which rules shall comply with Chicago Teachers Union v. Hudson, supra, and similar case authorities.
B.	Amount of Purpose of Representation Fee
The Union will determine its calculation of the representation fee based on a percentage of its regular expenses and budget; said percentage to represent the cost of all services performed by the Union under the Municipal Employee Relations Ordinance and other local and state laws.
C.	Notice to Employees
The Union, using the BCPSS’s internal mail system, shall once yearly send a written notice to each employee in the unit who is required to pay such a fee of the amount of the fee and how it
29
has been determined. Alternatively, should the Employer not wish to make its internal mail system available to the Union for that purpose, the Employer shall release or make available to the Union mailing labelswith the last known home address of each nohmember (OR FEE PAYER) to. enable the Union to distribute its notice to those persons who must receive it.
D.	Collection of Fee
The Employer, as a condition of employment, and subject to Article 1, Section 130 of the Baltimore City Code, shall withhold from the bi-weekly salary of each employee who is not a member of the Union the representation fee as calculated on a bi-weekly basis.
E.	Indemnity
The Union shall indemnify and save the BCPSS harmless and shall at the Union's expense (WITH COUNSEL OF THE UNION'S CHOICE) provide a defense of any and all claims, grievances, actions, suits or other forms of liability or damages that arise out of or by reason of any action taken by the Board for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of this Section, and the Union, subject to the conditions outlined in this Agreement, assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the funds deducted under this Section as soon as they have been remitted by the Employer to the Union.
ARTICLE 26
LONGEVITY
All employees covered by this Memorandum of Understanding shall receive the following longevity increments as a percentage of the maximum step of the grade, or, in the event they are on a flat salary, then as a percentage of their annual salary.
10 years of continuous City Service - 3%
15 years of continuous City Service - 3%
20 years of continuous City Service - 3%
25 years of continuous City Service - 3%
ARTICLE 27
PENSION & RELATED BENEFITS
A.	Annuity Savings Certificate Each employee who is a member of the Employees' Retirement System shall receive an Annuity Savings Certificate on a semi-annual and timely basis as of January 1 and July 1 of each year. This certificate shall include the following information: (1) Total annually accumulation:
(2)	Employee annuity contribution and the amount that contribution is drawing
(3)	Explanation on interest accrual;
(4)	Current year service credits; and
(5)	Probable maximum retirement allowance.
30
B.	Employee Pension Counseling Service
The Employer shall train the Union Chief Stewards in the counseling of prospective retirees so that they may assist such prospective retirees in the selection of retirement allowance options.
ARTICLE 28
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE SERVICE
The Employer shall continue to maintain an Employee Assistance Program. It shall be the policy of the Program to assist, in a strictly confidential manner, employees who seek assistance for alcoholism, chug abuse family problems, psychological or other medical problems. This policy recognizes that these are treatable conditions and it is the employee's responsibility to seek professional assistance for them. Employees with such problems are encouraged to contact the Employee Assistance Program for assistance by telephone (396-3484) or personal visit: (DIVISIONAL OF OCCUPATIONAL MEDICINE, 23 SOUTH GAY STREET, BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 21202).
Any contact with the Employee Assistance Counselor will be strictly confidential. The Employee Assistance Counselor shall make an evaluation of the employee's problem and recommend remedies which may include referral to an appropriate treatment agency. It is the employee's responsibility to follow the recommendations of the Employee Assistance Program.
ARTICLE 29 TRAINING PROGRAM
The Employer shall lend its full cooperation to Union training programs, both in the implementation of said programs and in placing those employees who have completed the programs.
ARTICLE 30 SUB-CONTRACTING
During the term of this Agreement, the Employer agrees to meet and to discuss with the Union any plan to contract work which would result in a layoff. The Employer agrees to postpone the layoff so caused until three (3) months after the date on which the Employer first met and discuss with the Union the decision to contract the work.
ARTICLE 31 OUT-OF-TITLE WORK
A.	Labor Class: Whenever an employee is assigned to substitute for an employee in a higher classification due to the absence of the latter, he shall be paid at the rate of the step in the
31
higher classification immediately above his regular rate of pay on an hour-for-hour basis, provided.
(a)	That in the event the application of this rule would result in an hourly increase of less than five (5) cents, the employee shall be paid the rate of the next higher step, but in no event more than the maximum rate, of the higher classification.
(b)	Whenever in the opinion of the Department Head, an employee will be required to substitute in a higher classification for a period exceeding thirty (30) working-days, the Department Head shall notify the Department of Human Resource whether the need for the higher classification is temporary or permanent. The Department of Human Resource will prepare an Eligible List for permanent appointment, (c) Heavy Equipment Operators I and II shall be treated as Labor Class employees for the purpose of this Section.
(d) No employee shall be required to perform or shall receive compensation for out-of-title work for more than one-hundred twenty (120) days.
B.	Exempt, Competitive, and Non-Competitive Classes: Whenever an employee is assigned to perform the duties and responsibilities of a higher classification for a period in excess of ten (10) consecutive working-days, he shall be paid the higher rate for such services commencing on the eleventh working-day, in accordance with the rules and regulations as set forth in the Administrative Manual. No employee shall be required to perform or shall receive compensation for out-of-title work for more than ninety (90) days
C.	The Chief Executive Officer shall, as the Employer's representative, study out-of-title practices. The Union shall be given the right to actively participate and shall share in the information to be examined. The purpose shall be to determine (ON A CASE BY CASE BASIS) whether the out-of-title practice is inappropriately administered either by labor or management and, if so, to make effective recommendations to deal with any abuses.
ARTICLE 32
UNIFORMS
A. The Employer's previous practice of furnishing certain items of clothing and/or equipment to members of the unit shall continue during the term of this Agreement.
32
ARTICLE 33
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
A.	If the BCPSS Payroll Department or the employee's department makes a mistake on an employee's pay, it shall be rectified and payment shall be made as soon as possible following verification by the BCPSS Payroll Department.
B.	The Employer shall assume the administrative cost for those employees who participate in the Deferred Compensation Plan.
C.	Reimbursement for additional transportation expense of ten (10) cents shall be provided to employees who are required to travel from the City to the County where the Employer's place of business may be located; affected employees shall be given another ten (10) cents for return to the City.
D.	The Employer and the Union agree that in all instances in this Memorandum of Understanding in which the masculine form of the third person pronoun is used, such pronoun shall refer to both male and female employees.
ARTICLE 34 CONFORMITY TO LAW
Should any provision of this agreement be contrary to law, or Senate Bill 795 as enacted by the 1997 General Assembly, then said provision shall be deemed void, but all other provisions shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 35
TERMINATION, CHANGE OR AMENDMENT
This Memorandum of Understanding shall become effective on July 1, 2000, and remain in full force and effect until June 30, 2002 unless otherwise stated herein. It shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall give to the other party written notice of a desire to terminate, modify or amend this Memorandum of Understanding. Such notice shall be given the other party in writing by registered mail no later than January 1 of the year involved.
33
Signed on this —th day of-----------—, 2000 in Baltimore, Maryland
The New Board of School Commissioners:
Donald Rainey
Errol Ellis.
Lewis Williams
Cheryl Curtis
Brian Williams
Denise Day
American Federation Of State County And Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO Council No. 67,
And Local No. 44
Glenard S. Middleton
Sallie Williams
Jeanette Sommerville
Catherine Butler
Gwendolyn Christopher
Charles Avery
Alma Coger
Joseph Parker
Andrew Hall
Roderick Lockett
Cranston Cosby
34
This Memorandum of Understanding by and between The New Board of School Commissioners
of the Baltimore City PublicSphools and AFSCEM AFL-CIO, Council 67 and Local 44, is signed this /J* day of .L/Z <t; , 2000, in Baltimore Maryland.
New' Board of School Commissioners
of the Baltimore City Public Schools
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO
Approved as to Form and Legal Sufficiency
Approved and Noted by the New Board City' Board of School Commissioners:
35
BALTIMORE CITY PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM APPENDIX A LISTING OF AFSCME CLASSES
CLASS NO.	CLASS TITLE	GRADE
52921	APPRENTICE 1st YEAR	000
52922	APPRENTICE 2no YEAR	000
52923	APPRENTICE 3rd YEAR	000.
52924	APPRENTICE 4th YEAR	000
52193	AUTOMOTIVE MAINT. WORKER	426
52151	BODY & FENDER REPAIRER	434
53111	BUILDING REPAIRER	429
52231	CABINETMAKER I	429
52232	CABINETMAKER II	432
51315	CAFETERIA MANAGER I, 10 MOS.	416
51352	CAFETERIA MANAGER II, 10 MOS.	419
51353	CAFETERIA MANAGER III, 10 MOS.	422
52241	CARPENTER I	426
52242	CARPENTER II	429
34222	CASHIER I CAFETERIA, 4 HOURS 10 MOS.	450
34223	CASHIER I CAFETERIA, 6 HOURS 10 MOS.	451
34224	CASHIER I CAFETERIA, 8 HOURS 10 MOS.	412
54437	CHAUFFEUR I	424
54438	CHAUFFEUR I, 10 MOS.	463
54439	CHAUFFEUR II	426
51341	COOKI, 10 MOS.	414
51342	COOK II, 10 MOS.	418
53121	CUSTODIAL WORKER I	420
53131	CUSTODIAL WORKER I - P/T	405
53123	CUSTODIAL WORKER, 10 MOS.	460
53122	CUSTODIAL WORKER II	423
53132	CUSTODIAL WORKER II - P.T.	407
52211	ELECTRICAL MECHANIC I	429
52212	ELECTRICAL MECHANIC II	432
53741	FOOD SERVICE EQUIPMENT REPAIRER	430
51311	FOOD SERVICE WORKER I, 4 HOURS 10 MOS.	401
51321	FOOD SERVICE WORKER I, 6 HOURS 10 MOS.	404
51331	FOOD SERVICE WORKER I, 8 HOURS 10 MOS.	409
51312	FOOD SERVICE WORKER II, 4 HOURS 10 MOS.	402
51322	FOOD SERVICE WORKER II, 6 HOURS 10 MOS.	408
51332	FOOD SERVICE WORKER II, 8 HOURS 10 MOS.	413
52291	GLAZIER I	426
52292	GLAZIER II	429
54211	HEAT & AIR CONDITIONING TECH I	429
54212	HEAT & AIR CONDITIONING TECH 11	432
54213	HEAT & AIR CONDITIONING TECH III	435
54431	HEAVY EQUIPMENT OPERATOR I	426
54432	HEAVY EQUIPMENT OPERATOR II	429
36
LISTING OF AFSCME CLASSES (continued)
53661	HORTICULTURAL ASSISTANT	427
52941	LABORER	423
52949	LABORER, 10 MOS.	462
52942	LABORER CREW LEADER I	426
52943	LABORER CREW LEADER II	429
52251	LOCKSMITH I	426
52252	LOCKSMITH II	429
52221	MASON I	427
52222	MASON II	432
52114	MOTOR EQUIPMENT LEAD MECHANIC	437
52110	MOTOR EQUIPMENT MECHANIC	434
54421	MOTOR VEHICLE DRIVER I	424
54422	MOTOR VEHICLE DRIVER II	426
52271	PAINTER I	426
52272	PAINTER II	429
52273	PAINTER III	430
52961	PEST CONTROL WORKER	425
53721	PIANO TECH	432
52281	POPEFITTER I	426
52282	PIPEFITTER II	429
52261	PLASTERER I	426
52262	PLASTERER II	429
54451	SCHOOL BUS DRIVER I	403
54452	SCHOOL BUS DRIVER II	427
52299	SECURITY SYSTEMS MECHANIC	435
52331	SHEET METAL WORKER I	426
52332	SHEET METAL WORKER II	429
53791	SMALL ENGINE MECHANIC I	426
53792	SMALL ENGINE MECHANIC II	429
53811	SOLID WASTE WORKER	485
53812	SOLID WASTE DRIVER	487
54291	STATIONARY BOILER MAINT. WORKER	422
54221	STATIONARY ENGINEER HP	434
54231	STATIONARY ENGINEER I HEAT/AIR CONDIT.	426
54241	STATIONARY ENGINEER I LP	424
54232	STATIONARY ENGINEER II HEAT/AIR CONDIT. 54242	STATIONARY ENGINEER II LP 53651	TREE TRIMMER 52311	WELDER 53210	WELDER ASSISTANT	431 430 429 434 429
37
APPENDIX B
PROGRAM ID: RUN DATE : RUN TIME :	RAIS00A5 10/13/00 13:50:07		BALTIMORE CITY PUBLIC SCHOOLS DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES AND LABOR RELATIONS SALARY MATRICES EFFECTIVE JUL 01, 2000					LOCAL 44	PAGE	1 (A62)
GRADE	HIRING	FULL PERF	EXPERIENCED	LONG 1	LONG 2	LONG 3	LONG 4	LONG 5	
4A1	8,287	8,375	8,474	254	254	254	254	254	
4A2	9,650	9,793	9,959	299	299	299	299	299	
4 A3	15,976	17,006	18,072	542	542	542	542	542	
4A4	12,437	12,567	12,716	381	381	381	381	381	
4A5	10,858	10,987	11,137	334	334	334	334	334	
4A6	17,685	17,819	18,001	540	540	540	540	540	
4A7 •	11,550	11,731	11,946	358	358	358	358	358	
4A8	12,769	12,922	13,286	399	399	399	399	399	
4A9	16,569	16,745	16,942	508	508	508	508	508	
4B0	18,332	18,503	18,910	567	567	567	567	567	
4B1	18,714	18,885	19,295	579	579	579	579	579	
4B2	18,885	19,058	19,486	585	585	585	585	585	
4B3	19,058	19,246	19,684	591	591	591	591	591	
4B4	19,246	19,438	19,887	597	597	597	597	597	
4B5	19,438	19,638	20,116	603	603	603	603	603	
4B6	19,638	19,837	20,349	610	610	610	610	610	
4B7	19,837	20,066	20,597	618	618	618	618	618	
4B8	20,066	20,298	20,858	626	626	626	626	626	
4B9	20,298	20,545	21,135	634	634	634	634	634	
4C0	20,545	20,807	21, 437	643	643	643	643	643	
4C1	20,807	21,083	21,775	653	653	653	653	653	
4C2	21,083	21,386	22,150	665	665	665	665	665	
LONGEVITY INCREASES ARE IS INCREASED BY ADDING		GRANTED TO LONG 1 AND	CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES AFTER LONG 2 AFTER 10 AND 15 YEARS		10, 15, 20 AND 25 YEARS OF SERVICE, BY ADDING		OF CONTINUOUS SERVICE. THE ANNUAL RATE OF PAY LONG 3 AND LONG 4 AFTER 20 AND 25 YEARS SERVICE		
PROGRAM ID:
RAIS00A5 RUN DATE RUN TIME
10/13/00 13142:56
BALTIMORE CITY
DIVISION OF
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
HUMAN RESOURCES AND LABOR RELATIONS SALARY MATRICES
EFFECTIVE JAN 01, 2001
PAGE 2
LOCAL 44 (A62)
GRADE	HIRING	FULL PERF	EXPERIENCED	LONG 1	LONG 2	LONG 3	LONG 4	LONG 5
4C3	21,600	21,935	22,801	684	684	684	684 .	684
4C4	21,935	22,313	23,311	699	699	699	699	699
4C5	22,313	22,731	23,881	716	716	716	716	716
4C6	22,731	23,210	24,398	732	732	732	732	732
4C7	23,210	23,751	25,087	753	753	753	753	753
4CB	23,751	24,238	25,854	776	776	776	776	776
4C9	24,238	24,894	26,690	801	801	801	801	801
4D0	24,894	25,612	27,622	829	829	829	829	829
4D1	25,612	26,389	28,596	858	858	858	858	858
4D2	26,389	27, 240	29,425	883	883	883	883	883
4D3	27,240	28,135	30,522	916	916	916	916	916
4D4	28,135	28,893	31,684	951	951	951	951	951
4D5	28,893	29,900	32,894	987	987	987	987	987
4D6	29,900	30,958	34,163	1,025	1,025	1,025	1,025	1,025
4D7	30,958	32,068	35,527	1,066	1,066	1, 066	1,066	1,066
4D8	32,068	33,232	36,965	1,109	1,109	1,109	1,109	1,109
4D9	33,232	34,478	38,480	1,154	1,154	1,154	1, 154	1,154
4 EO	34,478	>• 35,805	40,062	1,202	1,202	1,202	1,202	1,202
4E1	35,805	37,179	41,726	1,252	1,252	1,252	1,252	1,252
4E2	37,179	38,631	43,477	1,304	1,3 04	1,304	1,304	1,304
4E3 . •	38,631	40,157	45,314	1,359	1,359	1,359	1,359	1,359
4E4	40,157	41,887	47,240	1, 417	1, 417	1,417	1,417	1,417
LONGEVITY INCREASES ARE IS INCREASED BY ADDING		GRANTED TO LONG 1 AND	CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES AFTER LONG 2 AFTER 10 AND 15 YEARS		10, 15,*20 1 OF SERVICE	AND 25 YEARS , BY ADDING	OF CONTINUOUS SERVICE. THE	^qrovTrE LONG 3 AND LONG 4 AFTER 20 AND 25 /EARS SERVICE	
PROGRAM ID:
RAIS00A5
RUN DATE :	10/13/00
RUN TIME I 13:42i56
BALTIMORE CITY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES AND LABOR RELATIONS SALARY MATRICES
EFFECTIVE JAN 01, 2001
PAGE 3
LOCAL 44 (A62)
GRADE	HIRING	FULL PERF	EXPERIENCED	LONG 1	LONG 2	LONG 3	LONG 4	LONG 5
4E5	41,887	43,441	49,201	1,476	1,476	1,476	1,476	1,476
4F0	11,410	11,497	11,709	351	351	351	351	351
4 Fl	15,012	15,143	15,461	464	464	464	464	464
4G0	17,757	17,991	18,540	556	556	556	556	556
4G1	17,983	18,219	18,787	564	564	564	564	564
4G2	18,217	18,461	19,053	572	572	572	572	572
4G3	18,461	»• 18,726	19,378	581	581	581	581	581
4G8	20,087	20,446	21,656	650	650	650	650	650
4H0	22,762	23,499	25,481	764	764	764	764	764
411	10.43	10.56	10.74	32	32	32	32	32
412	10.56	10.72	10.91	33	33	33	33	33
413	10.63	10.76	10.99	33	33	33	33	33
414	10.72	10.89	11.08	33	33	33	33	33
415	10.89	11.06	11.33	34	34	34	34	34
416	11.06	11.31	11.58	35	35	35	35	35
417	11.31	11.53	11.83	35	35	35	35	35
418	11.53	11.81	12.14	36	36	36	36	36
419	11.81	12.10	12.52	38	38	38	38	38
4J0	12.10	12.45	12.89	39	39	39	39	39
4J1	12.45	12.82	13.31	40	40	40	40	40
4J2	12.82	13.20	13.78	41	41	41	41	41
4J3	13.20	13.60	14.19	43	43	43	43	43
10	15, 20 AND 25 YEARS OF CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
OF SERVICE, BY ADDING LONG 3 AND LONG 4 AFTER
LONGEVITY INCREASES ARE GRANTED TO CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES AFTER IS INCREASED BY ADDING LONG 1 AND LONG 2 AFTER 10 AND 15 YEARS
THE ANNUAL RATE OF PAY 20 AND 25 YEARS SERVICE.
PROGRAM ID:
RAIS00A5
RUN DATE :	10/13/00
RUN TIME i 13:42:56
BALTIMORE CITY PUBLIC SCHOOLS DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES.AND LABOR RELATIONS SALARY MATRICES EFFECTIVE JAN 01, 2001
PAGE 4
LOCAL 44 (A62)
GRADE	HIRING	FULL PERF	EXPERIENCED	LONG 1	LONG 2	LONG 3	LONG 4	LONG 5
4J4	13.60	14.06	14.67	44	44	44	44	44
4J5 '	14.06	14.48	15.24	46	46	46	46	46
4J6	14.4 8	14.95	15.77	47	47	47	47	47
LONGEVITY INCREASES ARE GRANTED TO CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES AFTER 10, 15, 20 AND 25 YEARS OF CONTINUOUS SERVICE. THE ANNUAL RATE OF PAY IS INCREASED BY ADDING LONG 1. AND LONG 2 AFTER 10 AND 15 YEARS OF SERVICE, BY ADDING LONG 3 AND LONG 4 AFTER 20 AND 25 YEARS SERVICE.
					APPENDIX B					
PROGRAM ID: RUN DATE : RUN TIME :	RAIS00A5 10/13/00 13:42:56	9	DIVISION	BALTIMORE CITY PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF HUMAN RESOURCES AND LABOR SALARY MATRICES EFFECTIVE JAN 01, 2001			RELATIONS	LOCAL 44 (A62)	PAGE	1
GRADE	HIRING	FULL PERF EXPERIENCED		LONG 1	LONG 2	LONG 3	LONG 4	LONG 5		
4A1	8,370	8,459	8,559	257	257	257	257	257		
4A2	9,747	9,891	10,059	302	302	302	302	302		
4 A3	16,136	17,176	18,253	548	548	548	548	548		
4A4	12,561	12,693	12,843	385	385	385	385	385		
4A5	10,967	11,097	11,248	337	337	337	337	337		
4AS	17,862	• 17,997	18,181	545	545	545	545	545		
4A7	11,666	11,848	12,065	362	362	362	362	362		
4A8	12,897	13,051	13,419	403	403	403	403	403		
4A9	16,735	• 16,912	17,111	513	513	513	513	513		
4B0	18,515	* 18,688	19,099	573	573	573	573	573		
4B1	IB,901	19,074	19,480	585	585	585	585	585		
4B2 ■	19,074	19,249	19,681	590	590	590	590	590		
4B3	19,249	19,438	19,881	596	596	596	596	596		
4B4	19,438	19,632	20,086	603	603	603	603	603		
4B5	19,632	19,834	20,317	610	610	610	610	610		
4BS	19,834	20,035	20,552	617	617	617	617	617		
4B7	20,035	20,267	20,803	624	624	624	624	624		
4B8	20,267	20, 501'	21,067	632	632	632	632	632		
4B9	20,501	20,750	21,346	640	640	640	640	640		
4 CO	20,750	21,015	21,651	650	650	650	650	650		
4C1	21,015	; 21,294	21,993	660	660	660	660	660		
4C2	21,294	21,600	22,372	671	671	671	671	671		
AND 25 YEARS OF CONTINUOUS SERVICE. ANNUAL RATE OF PAY BY ADDING LONG 3 AND LONG 4 AFTER 20 AND 25 YEARS SERVICE.
LONGEVITY’ INCREASES AilE GRANTED TO CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES AFTER 10, service' IS INCREASED BY ADDING LONG 1 AND LONG 2 AFTER 10 AND 15 YEARS OF SERVICE
PROGRAM ID:
RAIS00A5
RUN DATE :	10/13/00
RUN TIME :	13:50:07
BALTIMORE CITY
DIVISION OF
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
HUMAN RESOURCES AND LABOR RELATIONS SALARY MATRICES
EFFECTIVE JUL 01, 2000
PAGE 2
LOCAL 44 (A62)
GRADE	HIRING	FULL PERF	EXPERIENCED	LONG 1	LONG 2	LONG 3	LONG 4	LONG 5
4C3	21,386	21,718	22,575	677	677	677	677	677
4C4	21,718	22,092	23,080	692	692	692	692	692
4C5	22,092	22,506	23,645	709	709	709	709	709
4C6	22,506	22,980	24,156	725	725	725	725	725
4C7	22,980	23,516	24,839	74 5	745	745	74 5	745
4C8	23,516	23,998	25,598	768	768	768	768	768
4C9	23,998	24,648	26,426	793	793	793	793	793
4D0	24,648	25,358	27,349	820	820	820	820	820
4D1	25,358	26,128	28,313	849	849	849	849	849
4D2	26,128	26,970	29,134	874	874	874	874	874
4D3	26,970	27,856	30,220	907	907	907	907	907
4D4	27,856	28,607	31,370	941	941	941	941	941
4D5	28,607	29,604	32,568	977	977	977	977	977
4D6	29,604	30,651	33,825	1,015	1,015	1,015	1,015	1,015
4D7	30,651	31,750	35,175	1,055	1,055	1,055	1,055	1,055
4D8	31,750	32,903	36,599	1,098	1,098	1,098	1,098	1,098
4D9	32,903	34,137	38,d99	1,143	1,143	1,143	1,143	1,143
4 E0	34,137	35,450	39,665	1,190	1,190	1,190	1, 190	1,190
4 El	35,450	36,811	41,313	1,239	1, 239	1,239	1,239	1,239
4E2	36,811	38,249	43,047	1,291	1,291	1,291	1, 291	1,291
4E3	38,249	39,759	44,865	1,346	1,346	1,346	1,346	1,346
4E4	39,759	41,472	46,772	1,403	1,403	1,403	1,403	1,403
LONGEVITY
INCREASES ARE
TO CLASSIFIED
EMPLOYEES AFTER 10, 15,
20
IS INCREASED BY ADDING
' GRANTED	— __________
LONG 1 AND LONG 2 AFTER .10 AND 15 YEARS OF SERVICE
AND 25 YEARS OF CONTINUOUS SERVICE THE ANNUAL RATE OF PAY BY ADDING LONG 3 AND LONG 4 AFTER 20 AND 25 YEARS SERVICE.
PROGRAM TO
RAIS00A5 RUN DATE i RUN TIME >	10/13/00 13:50:07	BALTIMORE CITY PUBLIC SCHOOLS DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES AND LABOR RELATIONS SALARY MATRICES EFFECTIVE JUL 01, 2000						PAGE LOCAL 44		3 (A62)
GRADE	HIRING	FULL PERF	EXPERIENCED	LONG 1	LONG 2 .	LONG 3	LONG 4	LONG 5		
4E5	41,472	43,011	48,714	1,461	1,461	1,461	1,461	1,461		
4F0	11,297	11,383	11,593	348	348	348	348	348		
4 Fl	14,863	14,993	15,308	459	459	459	459	459		
4G0	17,581	17,813	18,356	551	551	551	551	551		
4G1	17,805	18,039	18,601	558	558	558	558	558		
402	18,037	18,278	18,864	566	566	566	566	566		
4G3	18,278	18,541	19,186	576	576	576	576	576		
4G8	19,888	20,244	21,442	643	643	643	643	643		
4H0	22,537	23,266	25,229	757	757	757	757	757		
411	10.33	10.46	10.63	32	32	32	32	32		
412	10.46	10.61	10.80	32	32	32	32	32		
413	10.52	10.65	10 .'88	33	33	33	33	33		
414	10.61	10.78	10.97	33	33	33	33	33		
415	10.78	10.95	11.22	34	34	34	34	34		
416	10.95	11.20	11.47	34	34	34	34	34		
417	11.20	11.42	11.71	35	35	35	35	35		
418	11.42	11.69	12.02	36	36	36	36	36		
419	11.69	11.98	12.40	37	37	37	37	37		
4J0	11.98	12.33	12.76	38	38	38	38	38		
4J1	12.33	12.69	13.18	40	40	40	40	40		
4J2	12.69	13.07	13.64	41	41	41	41	41		
4J3	13.07	13.47	14.05	42	42	42	42	42		
I LONGEVITY INCREASES ARE IS INCREASED BY ADDING		GRANTED TO LONG 1 AND	CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES AFTER 10, 15, 20 AND 25 YEARS LONG 2 AFTER 10 AND 15 YEARS OF SERVICE, BY ADDING				OF CONTINUOUS SERVICE. LONG 3 AND LONG 4 AFTER		THE ANNUAL RATE OF PAY 20 AND 25 YEARS SERVICE	
PROGRAM ID:
RAIS00A5
RUN DATE :	10/13/00
RUN TIME :	13:50:07
BALTIMORE CITY PUBLIC SCHOOLS DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES AND LABOR RELATIONS SALARY MATRICES
EFFECTIVE JUL 01, 2000
PAGE 4
LOCAL 44 (A62)
GRADE	HIRING	FULL PERF	EXPERIENCED	LONG 1	LONG 2	LONG 3	LONG 4	LONG 5
4J4	13.47	13.92	14.52	44	44	44	44	44
4J5	13.92	14.34	15.09	45	45	45	45	45
4J6	14.34	14.80	15.61	47	47	47	47	47
LONGEVITY INCREASES ARE GRANTED TO CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES AFTER 10, 15, 20 AND 25 YEARS OF CONTINUOUS SERVICE. THE ANNUAL RATE OF PAY IS INCREASED BY ADDING LONG 1 AND LONG 2 AFTER 1'0 AND 15 YEARS OF SERVICE, BY ADDING LONG 3 AND LONG 4 AFTER 20 AND 25 YEARS SERVICE.
INDEX
A
Accumulation of Sick Leave.....................................■.......................15
Additional Transportation Expenses.....................................................34
Amount of Purpose of Representation Fee................................................29
Annuity Savings Certificate.............................................................30
Arbitration Time Limits.................................................................8
B Bulletin Boards........................................................................23
C Catastrophic Illness or Injury of Immediate Family.....................................17
Changes in Job Classification...........................................................6
Checkoff................................................................................7
Chief Shop Steward.....................................................................10
Civil Defense Leave.................................................................... 19
Collection of Fee......................................................................30
Commercial Driver’s License............................................................26
Committees..............................................................................23
Conformity to Law......................................................................33
Contributions..........................................................................24
Cost of Arbitration.....................................................................9
Computation of Overtime................................................................22
D Death Benefits.........................................................................17
Death Leave............................................................................17
Declaration of Principle, Policies and Purpose..........................................6
Deferred Compensation Plan.............................................................33
Denial of Sick Leave...................................................................16
Departmental Concerns..................................................................26
Department of Education................................................................26
Designation of Steward and Alternates..................................................10
Discharge/Reduction /Suspension for More than 30 Days..................................27
Discipline.............................................................................27
Discipline and Discharge...............................................................27
Discipline of Strike Participants......................................................28
Discrimination..........................................................................7
Discrimination Prohibited...............................................................7
INDEX, Cont’d.
Distribution of Overtime............................................................  22
Drug Program....................................................i.....................24
Dues Checkoff..........................................................................7
E
Emergency Situations................................................................,...23
Employee Assistance Service.........................................................  30
Employee Pension Counseling Service...................................................30
Exempt, Competitive, and Non-Competitive Classes......................................32
Extended Sick Leave.................................................................16, 24
G
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure....................................................8
Grievance and Arbitration Procedure - Time Limits......................................9
Grievance Defined......................................................................8
Grievance Processing Time off with Pay................................................10
Grievance Resolution...................................................................9
Grievance Time Limits..................................................................9
H
Health and Welfare....................................................................24
Health Maintenance Organization.......................................................24
Hold Harmless..........................................................................7
Holidays.......................................................................... ;....l	1
Holidays and Holiday Pay..............................................................12
Holidays Falling on Weekends..........................................................12
Holiday Pay Eligibility................................................................  12
Holiday Work Premium Pay..............................................................12
Hours of Work.........................................................................21
I
Illness on Holidays...................................................................16
Implementation of Representation Fee..................................................29
Indemnity.............................................................................30
J
Job Injury Leave......................................................................18
Joint Labor/Management Committee.....................................................-23
INDEX, Conf d.
Jury Service...........................................................i................19
L Labor Class............................................................................31
Leave of Absence..................................................................  19,	20
Leave Without Pay...................................................................   19
Leave Without Pay - Personal Illness...................................................19
Legal Heirs of Deceased Employee.......................................................14
Longevity..............................................................................30
Lunch Period...........................................................................21
M Management Rights.......................................................................8
Masculine Pronoun Use..................................................................32
Meal Allowance.........................................................................21
Military Training Leave................................................................19
Miscellaneous Provisions...............................................................33
Mistake on Employee’s Pay..............................................................33
N Notification to Employer regarding Sick Leave..........................................16
No Strike, No Lockout..................................................................28
0 Out-of-Title Work......................................................................31
Outside Regular Shift Pay..............................................................21
Overtime...............................................................................22
Overtime Computation...................................................................22
Overtime Distribution..................................................................22
Overtime Rate of Pay...................................................................22
P Pension and Related Benefits...........................................................30
P.E.O.P.L.E. Deduction..................................................................7
Periodic Verification - Sick Leave Use.................................................16
Permanent Part-time employees; Sick Leave...........................................16,17
Personal Leave.........................................................................20
Probationary Period....................................................................15
INDEX, Cont'd.
Promotions................................................  i..........;..]	|
Pronoun Usage in Memorandum.............................................  32
R
Rates of Pay...........................,................................................26
Rates of Vacation Pay.................................................................13
Recognition..............................................................................6
Reduction-In-Force.................................................................. 10,	11
Regular Work Week.......................................................................21
Representation............................................................................29
Required to Work..........................................................................12
Resolution of a Grievance..............................................................8,	9
Retirement and Resignation..........................................................  14,	16
Return to Position After Childbirth......................................................16
Rights Guaranteed...................................................................7
S
Safety and Health ......................................................................23
Safety Standards - Joint Committee......................................................23
Seniority...............................................................................10
Seniority Factored......................................................................11
Seniority in Layoffs....................................................................11
Shall Not vary or Rearrange Work Schedules..............................................23
Shift Differential......................................................................21
Sick Leave........................................................................  „...15
Sick Leave Accrual......................................................................15
Sick Leave Accumulation.................................................................15
Sick Leave Conversion.................................................................  16
Sick Leave for Permanent Part-Time Employees..........................................16,	17
Sick Leave Upon Retirement or 20 Years of Service.......................................16
Sick Leave Usage........................................................................16
Subcontracting........................................................................  31
Study of Out-of-Title Practices........................................................  32	.
Suspension and Discharge Grievances......................................................9
T
Temporary Employees...................................................................28
Termination, Change or Amendment......................................................33
Training Program......................................................................31
Travel Allowance......................................................................27
INDEX, Conf d.
U
Unauthorized Strikes...............................................................  28
Uniforms...........................................................................  32
Union Conventions....................................................................20
Union Security - Employee Notification...............................................29
Union Stewards and Alternates List.......................................... ........10
Union Stewards and Union Representation..............................................10
U.S. Congressional Election Day......................................................12
Unit Lists............................................................................6
V
Vacation Accrual.....................................................................13
Vacation Accrual After Return from Layoff............................................14
Vacation Accrual and Reemployment..................................................  14
Vacation Accrual-Part-Time Employees...............................................14, 15
Vacation Accumulation..........................................................13,	14. 15
Vacation and Early Closings........................................................13, 14
Vacation Leave...................i...................................................13
Vacation Leave and Accrual...........................................................13
Vacation Pay Rates...................................................................13
Vacation Requests and Usage..........................................................13
Vacation Retained on Transfer.......................................................14
Vacation use....................................................................... 13
Visitation..........................................................................27
Voluntary Overtime................................................................22,.23
Volunteer Layoff..................................................................10.11
Voting Time.........................................................................12
W
Work Schedules......................................................................21
Work Shift..........................................................................21