Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Minneapolis Board of Education, Special School District No. 1 and Minneapolis Federation of Educational Assistants, Local 59 (2003) (MOA)
K#: 820084
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
MP/S
MINNEAPOLIS
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
| SPECIAL SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1
THE MINNEAPOLIS FEDERATION OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS, LOCAL #59
AND
MINNEAPOLIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Special School District No. 1 Minneapolis, Minnesota An Equal Opportunity School District
MINNEAPOLIS BOARD OF EDUCATION Judy Farmer Sharon Henry-Blythe, Chairperson Dennis Schapiro, Treasurer Ross Taylor Audrey Johnson, Clerk Coleen Moriarty Joseph Erickson
David Jennings, Interim Superintendent of Schools
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEES
District Committee
Rasheedah Ali, Principal
Susan Craig, Principal
Ann Fox, Asst. Director, Special Ed - LD
Joan Franks, Principal
Michael Goar, Executive Director, LR/HR/Payroll
Rosalyn Lockett, Staffing Specialist
Maria Mason, Labor Relations Analyst
Ava Nielsen, Director of Staffing
Local 59 Committee
Angelica Armijo, Bryn Mawr
Georgia Bodeman, Chairperson, Folwell
Buzzy Bohn, Loring
Mary Joan Connolly, President
Mary DeLuney, PDP Coordinator
Richard Herriges, Education Minnesota
Alicia Jackson, Office of Student Engagement
Richard Lockett, PDP Mentor
Eula Perdue, Business Representative/Negotiator Joan Turpin, Whittier
Nondiscrimination
The Minneapolis Public Schools does not discriminate on the basis of race, creed, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, affectional preference, handicap, marital status, status with regard to public assistance, Vietnam era veteran status and age in its educational programs or activities and complies with Title IX of the Educational Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and other applicable federal or state statutes and regulations relating to equality of opportunity.
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article	I
Article	II
Article	III
Article	IV
Article	V
Article	VI
Article	VII
Article	VIII
Article	IX
Article	X
Article	XI
Article	XII
Article	XIII
Article	XIV
Article	XV
Article	XVI
Article	XVII
Article	XVIII
Article	XIX
Article	XX
Article	XXI
Article	XXII
Article	XXIII
Article	XXIV
Article	XXV
Article	XXVI
Article	XXVII
Definition of Agreement............................... 4
Exclusive Representation.............................. 4
Definitions........................................... 5
Rights and Obligations of Employees................... 5
Board of Education’s Rights and Obligations.......	7
Professional Development.............................. 8
Standards of Effective Instructional Support......	10
Communication........................................ 18
Holiday.............................................. 18
Leaves of Absence.................................... 19
Fitness for Duty..................................... 33
Salaries............................................. 33
Group Insurance Benefits............................. 35
Hours/Days........................................... 38
Seniority............................................ 39
Transfer & Reassignment.............................. 40
Summer School........................................ 43
Reduction in Force................................... 44
Special Education.................................... 49
No Child Left Behind/ESEA............................ 50
Severance Pay Plan................................... 50
Personal Injury/Property Benefits.................... 51
No Strike............................................ 52
Grievance Procedure.................................. 52
Severability Clause.................................. 53
Non-Discrimination................................... 54
Complete Agreement................................... 54
Duration of Agreement................................ 54
Signature Page....................................... 54
Addendum - Job Descriptions
Summaries......................................... 57
Complete Descriptions............................. 62
Salary Rates............................ Appendix	A1-A6
Memorandum of Agreement.................... Appendix	A7
Form - Leave of Absence Request ........... Appendix	A8
Index.............................................. Index
3
AGREEMENT
ARTICLE I.	Definition of Agreement
A.	PARTIES: THIS AGREEMENT, entered into between the Board of Education, Special School District No. 1, Minneapolis, Minnesota, hereinafter referred to as the Board of Education and the Minneapolis Federation of Educational Assistants, Local 59, (certified by the Director of the Bureau of Mediation Services as the exclusive representative), hereinafter referred to as Local 59 pursuant to and in compliance with the Public Employment Labor Relations Act, hereinafter referred to as PELRA, to provide the terms and conditions of employment, and the purpose of the Agreement is to promote orderly and constructive relationships between the Board of Education, the employees of this unit and Local 59.
ARTICLE II.	Exclusive Representation
A. The Board of Education recognizes Local Educational Assistants whose employment service or thirty-five percent (35%) of the normal workweek including but not limited to:
Aide to the Principal
Associate Educator
(with the following class options):
•	Behavior Resource
•	Bilingual
•	Community Resource
•	Interpreter for Hearing Impaired
•	Media Resource
•	PDP Mentor
•	NCLB/ESEA Support
•	Special Education Bilingual
•	Title I Computer Resource
•	Transportation Resource
•	T ruancy
Bilingual Program Assistant
Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant
Certified Physical Therapist Assistant Community School Coordinator I and II
59 as the certified exclusive representative for all exceeds the lesser of fourteen (14) hours per week and more than sixty-seven (67) work-days per year.
Educational Assistant I, II, and III
Family Learning Asst Child Care Worker I & II Family Learning Child Care Helper Family Learning Child Care Worker
Health Educator II
Indian Home School Liaison I, II, and III Instructional Technology Assistant II and III Instructional Technology Support Specialist Minneapolis Kids Child Care Assistant I & II Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinator Program Aide I and II
School Community Liaison I, II, and III School Success Program Assistant Special Education Assistant
Transportation Resource Assistant
The term Educational Assistant refers to all job classifications within the bargaining unit.
B.	The Board of Education agrees that Local 59 is the exclusive representative for all personnel defined in Section A of this article, and that it will not meet and negotiate with any other labor or employee organization concerning the terms and conditions of employment for this unit.
C.	The Board of Education agrees that it will meet and confer with the Union regarding the establishment of any new positions that may include the same duties as those included in positions that are covered by this Agreement. Disputes which may occur over the inclusion or exclusion of new or revised job classifications in the unit described in Article II, Section A, shall be referred to the Bureau of Mediation Services for determination.
4
ARTICLE III.
Definitions
A.	PROBATION: For Benefits. Only employees who work twenty (20) or more hours per week are eligible for sick and vacation benefits after a completion of a one hundred thirty (130 days worked) day probationary period. Benefits are accrued during this period, but cannot be used until completion of probation.
Health insurance is available to those Educational Assistants who work twenty (20) hours or more per week. The Educational Assistants must enroll within thirty (30) calendar days of initial employment to receive health plan coverage.
Educational Assistants who work less than twenty (20) hours per week and have their hours increased or who transfer voluntarily to a position of twenty (20) hours or more per week must serve a one hundred and thirty (130 days worked) day probationary period in the position with benefit eligible hours before becoming eligible for sick and vacation benefits.
Following Initial Employment. An Educational Assistant whose performance is unsatisfactory may be released during the one hundred and thirty days of employment. Probationary evaluations may be made after two (2) months, four (4) months and prior to the completion of the probationary period.
All Educational Assistants must complete a one hundred and thirty (130) day probationary period to be considered for a voluntary transfer.
B.	Certification is the process of sending out to the requisitioning department the names of persons from the eligible list who are certified as qualified.
C.	Temporary Employee is a person who is not a permanent employee. Temporary employees are not eligible for benefits under this contract. Temporary employees do not earn seniority.
The District pledges its cooperation in insuring that employment of temporary employees will be minimized, and that substitute employees will not be assigned to permanently fill vacant positions. The Union pledges not to grieve violations of this subsection unless the District is deliberately utilizing substitute and temporarily certified employees as a means of circumventing the provisions of this Agreement.
D.	Detail is the temporary assignment of current employees to different job classes than their status class
E.	Credit for classifications that require credits for career advancement one (1) credit equals ten (10) clock hours of job-related training. College course work is credited based on job related courses and credits reported on official transcripts.
F.	Anniversary Date and Seniority Date see Article XIV., Sections A & B.
G.	Terms not defined in this Agreement shall have those meanings as defined by the PELRA.
ARTICLE IV.	Rights and Obligations of Employees
A.	RIGHT TO VIEWS: Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to limit, impair or affect the right of any employee or representative of an employee to the expression or communication of a view, complaint or opinion on any matter so long as such action does not interfere with the
5
performance of the duties of employment as prescribed in this Agreement or circumvent the rights of the exclusive representative.
B.	RIGHT TO JOIN AND PARTICIPATE: Employees shall have the right to form and join labor or employee organizations, and shall have the right not to form and join such organizations. Employees choosing to participate in internal Local 59 affairs as officers, stewards, and committee persons shall be free to do so without fear of penalty or reprisal.
C.	REQUEST FOR DUES CHECK OFF: Employees shall have the right to request and be allowed dues check off for Local 59. The Board of Education agrees to deduct during each payroll period an amount sufficient to provide the payment of dues established by Local 59 from the wages of all employees authorizing in writing such deductions on forms provided by Local 59. Local 59 will indemnify, defend, and hold the Board of Education harmless against any claims made and against any suits instituted against the Board of Education, its officers or employees, by reason of payroll deductions for dues.
D.	REMITTANCE OF DUES DEDUCTION: The Board of Education agrees to remit the total dues deduction for each pay period together with an itemized statement.
E.	OPEN PERSONNEL FILES: Educational Assistant employees shall have the right to examine their personnel files subject to the following conditions:
1.	A personnel file is defined to include the file maintained in the Human Resources Department, the payroll history file and health insurance and life insurance files maintained in the Finance Department and any other data maintained anywhere else under District control that is deemed to be public data or private data on individuals as defined in the Government Data Practices Act.
2.	An Educational Assistant, upon written request, (as outlined in the procedure established for this purpose) to the Human Resources Department, may examine the contents of her/his personnel file. A member of the professional staff of the Human Resources Department will share with the Educational Assistant in a personal conference all materials in the Educational Assistant’s file. Material to be placed in an Educational Assistant’s personnel file will be held by the originator for ten (10) days. An Educational Assistant may request a conference with the writer within this time period. The Educational Assistant shall have the right to submit a response to any report or evaluation; such a response will be attached to and become part of the Educational Assistant’s personnel file. An Educational Assistant may be permitted to reproduce at his/her expense any contents of her/his personnel file. The school district may destroy such file as provided by law. Official grievances filed by any Educational Assistant under the grievance procedure shall not be placed in the personnel file of the Educational Assistant; nor shall such a grievance be utilized in personnel assignment. Any person who examines an Educational Assistant’s personnel file shall be recorded as having examined said file, which record shall become a permanent part of an Educational Assistant’s personnel file, unless the Educational Assistant chooses to have such record expunged. Members of the Human Resources and Finance Departments shall be exempt from this provision.
3.	Information, except that which is part of an ongoing investigation, that has not been disclosed to an employee prior to a disciplinary action cannot be used against the employee. However, this paragraph shall not be interpreted to expand the rights of prehearing discovery beyond those provided by law.
4.	Information gained as a result of an investigation into a complaint received about an employee will be shared with that employee as allowed by the Data Privacy Law prior to
6
a disciplinary action. Information gained as a result of an investigation is not included in an employee’s personnel file, but rather the documents related to the final action.
5.	If there is no reoccurrence of misconduct after one year, the employee may request that such material relating to the charges be removed from the employee’s personnel file. The determination to remove such materials is the sole discretion of the school district. Charges that are not investigated or substantiated shall not be placed in the employee’s personnel file.
F.	EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE: The school district agrees that actions taken to discipline or discharge an employee shall be based upon just cause. The principle of progressive discipline and relevant Civil Service performance and misconduct standards shall be applied when appropriate as determined by the employer. All forms of discipline are subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE V.	Board of Education’s Rights and Obligations
A.	MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES: It is the obligation of the Board of Education to efficiently manage and conduct the operation of the school district within its legal limitations and with its primary obligation to provide educational opportunity for the students of the school district, subject to the provisions of all state and federal laws including the PELRA.
B.	INHERIT MANAGERIAL POLICY:
1.	The Board of Education’s inherent managerial policies include, but are not limited to, such areas of discretion as the functions and programs of the school system, its overall budget, utilization of technology, the organizational structure and selection and all direction and number of personnel.
2.	The Board of Education has the right and is entitled, without negotiation or reference to any agreement resulting from negotiation, to operate and manage its affairs solely at its discretion and in any lawful manner not otherwise limited by this Agreement or PELRA.
3.	The Board of Education, except as expressly stated herein, retains whatever rights and authority are necessary for it to operate and direct the affairs of the Board of Education in all of its various aspects, including, but not limited to, the right to direct the working forces; to plan, direct and control all the operations and services; to determine the methods, means, organization and number of personnel by which such operations and services are to be conducted; to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations; and to change or eliminate existing conditions, equipment or facilities.
C.	MANAGERIAL RIGHTS NOT COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT: The foregoing enumeration of Board of Education rights shall not be deemed to exclude other inherent management rights and management functions not expressly reserved herein, and all management rights and management functions not expressly delegated in this Agreement are reserved to the Board of Education. The managerial rights may be changed by courts of competent jurisdiction in interpreting PELRA.
D.	MANAGEMENT OBLIGATIONS:
1.	a. The Board of Education will afford reasonable time off without pay to elected officers or appointed representatives of Local 59 for the purposes of conducting the duties of Local 59. The Board of Education will allow, during working hours on the employer’s premises and without loss of pay, the elected officers, or appointed officers, to attend negotiating meetings; transmit communications authorized by Local 59 or its officers to the employer; consult with the employer or the employer’s representative concerning the enforcement of any provisions of this Agreement.
7
The Board of Education will allow, during working hours on the employers premises or site designated by the employer and without loss of pay, the president or the president’s designee to attend meetings including but not limited to negotiating meetings and labor management meetings.
b. In addition to the provision of subdivision (a) the Board of Education will allow up to thirty (30) employee days off during school year to elected officers or appointed representatives of the Educational Assistants Chapter Local 59 for the purpose of conducting the duties of Educational Assistants Chapter Local 59 without loss of pay to individuals certified by the Union. The cost of replacement substitutes shall be borne by the Union at the base rate of pay to be costed as part of contract settlement.
2.	The Board of Education will provide for leaves of absence without pay to elected officers or appointed representatives of Local 59.
3.	The Board of Education shall allow business agents of Local 59 to meet with Local 59 members during lunch and break periods.
4.	The Board of Education will allow the use of conference rooms or facilities upon permits secured from the proper authority in accordance with rules and regulations of the Board of Education before work, during lunch breaks and after the workday.
5.	When an Educational Assistant is required to participate in work related activities the Educational Assistant shall be paid her/his regular rate of pay.
ARTICLE VI.	Professional Development
Professional development is a process by which Educational Assistants improve and expand their skills as a member of a team and individually to meet the needs of a changing student population and to increase student achievement. Professional development is planned to meet the identified growth areas of each individual. The professional development process is an individualized plan tailored to meet the needs of the new hire as well as the continuing development of the more experienced.
An effective professional development process increases student achievement because:
•	job satisfaction increases as positive professional relationships are built;
•	morale improves as student achievement increases;
•	employee confidence increases as skills are developed for meeting student needs; and the job becomes more attractive and as a result more skilled applicants are recruited to the profession.
The employees covered by this contract provide a variety of invaluable services to support the students of Minneapolis Public Schools. Services include such diverse responsibilities as teaming with the classroom teacher, bilingual translations, assisting one-to-one students with special needs, early morning childcare, and assisting occupational therapists and social workers. In short, Educational Assistants play a vital role on the team, which strives to support the success of the students of Minneapolis Public Schools. To be effective in these areas of responsibility, Educational Assistants need ongoing professional development, as do all members of the educational community.
A.	COMPENSATION FOR STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND REQUIRED JOB RELATED TRAIINING
1.	Staff Development: When an Educational Assistant participates in staff development and/or school leadership activities, i.e. site-based management team, the Educational
8
Assistant shall be paid her/his hourly rate of pay or stipend as determined at the site by the leadership team or staff development committee prior to the scheduled meeting and/or staff development activity according to the following:
Staff Development Rate:	$10.20/hr., Up to $51.00/day
OR
Hourly Rate of Pay for Employee
Presenting/Prep EA Staff Development	$21.42
Hourly Leadership Rate/Prep	$26.52
Educational Assistants shall be paid at the Hourly Leadership Rate for each hour of instruction, which they present, to teachers or employees of the school district. In addition, for every two hours of preparation as reported, they shall receive one (1) additional hour at the Hourly Leadership Rate.
The title “Educational Assistant” shall mean all the classified employees of Special School District No. 1, who are permanent employees, represented by the Educational Assistant Chapter, MFT, Local 59 and included within the bargaining unit as certified by the Director of the Bureau of Mediation Services.
2.	Reimbursement For Required Training: In the event that training is required by the Employer, the Employer shall provide such training at no cost to the employee or shall reimburse the employee for any registration fees or tuition and mileage to and from the training site and the employee’s home or if during the employee’s regular work day, the employee’s assigned work location. However, this section does not apply to the required eighty (80) hours of training for Special Education Assistants or the twenty (20) hours of continuing education units required for maintaining current CPI, CPR, and first aid certification. If such training is during the employee’s regular work day, they may attend without loss of salary.
B.	PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR NEW EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS: Effective July 1, 2003, newly hired Educational Assistants shall receive an initial orientation and training related to their work with students, and their awareness of district and state policies, that shall be incompliance with the Minnesota statutory provisions, (120B.363, Sec. 10, Subd 3). Educational Assistants during their first year of employment or reemployment within the Minneapolis Public Schools are required to attend up to five (5) in-service meetings during that year. The meetings are scheduled beyond the defined work day. Agenda will be established through a collaboration process which may include, but not be limited to Human Resources, Teacher and Instructional Services, Unified Services, Career-inTeaching, etc.
C.	ON-GOING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR ALL EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS: The school district and the union jointly agree to the following assumptions that support the access of all Educational Assistants to annual district wide or school site(s) specific professional development activities:
To be effective in their areas of responsibility, Educational Assistants need on-going professional development throughout their careers.
Successful professional development is focused on student learning and achievement.
A school climate for professional learning and growth provides opportunities for collaboration, dialogue, and training focused on school - staff work for the purpose of improving student achievement.
9
All Educational Assistants must participate in staff development activities on designated days. There will be no access to use of accumulated sick leave on these days, and any paid absence will require the use of an accumulated vacation day by the employee.
The instructional community is responsible for collegial and professional growth and support, and the union and the district will jointly assist school sites to establish and provide meaningful professional development activities.
Educational Assistants will be provided three (3) paid professional development days annually for the duration of this agreement. In addition, please see Article XIII, Section F, Work Year.
The District currently budgets for student contact and non-student contact days. The non-student contact days budgeted for members of this bargaining unit by the District may be used by the site for professional development (e.g. PDP, site-specific training, approved workshops, in-services) or other work as defined by the site.
D.	STANDARDS OF EFFECTIVE INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPORT FOR EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS
In our continuing effort to increase student achievement, the Educational Assistant Joint Labor Management Committee has adapted the Minneapolis Public School’s Standards of Effective Instructional Support to guide the practices of Educational Assistants as integral team members in the total teaching and learning process. (This committee was formed under the grant received from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Services.)
The Standards of Effective Instructional Support were developed in 1994 to assist with decisions and planning for the improvement of instruction and student learning. During the development of these standards, a committee of teachers, principals, and administrators reviewed, analyzed and synthesized the standards and current research on teaching from the following national organizations: National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS), Educational Testing Service (PRAXIS series), National Association of State Directors of Teacher Education and Certification (NASDTEC), Interstate New Teacher Assessment and Support Consortium (INTASC), North Central Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE), and Minnesota Educational Effectiveness Program (MEEP). From that effort, the Minneapolis Standards of Effective Instruction were written.
The Standards can be used in a variety of ways. They can be used as:
•	a tool for self-assessment
•	a basis for teaming and/or coaching; goal setting, planning, and discussions
•	a guide for implementing staff development
•	criteria for reflection on work
All staff of the Minneapolis Public Schools can continue to improve the quality of teaching and learning through the use of standards as a foundation for professional expectations as well as a guide for planning, implementing and reflecting on instruction.
Although The Standards of Effective Instructional Support for Educational Assistants are clearly aligned with teacher standards, the ultimate responsibility for the design, content, and implementation of instruction is the professional responsibility of the licensed teacher.
BELIEF STATEMENTS ABOUT STUDENTS AND LEARNING
•	ALL students can learn and all educators can teach them to learn.
10
•	Instruction is rooted in the belief that there are no true differences in ability based on gender, culture, language, economic or family status. There are individual differences in student and teacher/staff talents, styles and experiences which need to be addressed in designing instruction.
•	Educational Assistants are recognized, respected and supported as integral team members responsible for assisting in the delivery of instruction and other student related activities.
•	The entire instructional team participates within clearly defined roles within a dynamic changing environment to provide an appropriate educational program for students.
•	Knowledge needs to be actively constructed in order to create true understanding and meaning.
•	Persistence in seeking and using a repertoire of instructional strategies is necessary to assure growth in achievement in all students.
•	Instruction, content, and assessment are aligned with each other and with student outcomes.
•	Student outcomes, curriculum, instruction, and assessment are aligned between grade levels
and elementary/secondary programs.
•	Multiple assessments are needed to inform individualized planning, future instruction, and program planning as well as to provide feedback to students and parent/families.
•	Instructional climate encourages questioning discourse, and divergent opinions among all individuals.
•	Student success is dependent on shared responsibility among student, parent/family, school, and community.
•	Implementation of new strategies requires ongoing support.
•	Instructional improvement requires human and often financial resources for the training of instructional team members.
•	Researched standards of effective instruction impact student achievement.
Overview of Standards
Standard 1
•	Teachers accommodate student differences when they plan for instruction.
•	Educational Assistants collaboratively plan and implement instruction designed to accommodate student differences.
Standard 2
•	Teachers are active learners as part of a school community.
•	Educational Assistants are active learners as part of a school community.
Standard 3
•	Teachers provide feedback to students and parents/families regarding their learning.
•	Educational Assistants provide feedback to teachers and students regarding the student’s learning.
Standard 4
•	Teachers continuously think systematically about their practice to improve their effectiveness.
•	Educational Assistants continuously think systemically about their practice to improve their effectiveness.
11
Standard 5
•	Teachers create classrooms in which students want to learn, do learn, and become responsible for their own learning.
•	Educational Assistants support teachers in creating classrooms in which students want to learn, do learn, and become responsible for their own learning.
Standard 6
•	Teachers create lessons and learning environments that are structured so that students can relate what they know to new information and situations.
•	Educational Assistants support lessons and learning environments that are structured so that students can relate what they know to new information and situations.
Standard 7
•	Teachers implement instruction in ways that encourage student learning.
•	Educational Assistants implement instruction in ways that encourage student learning.
Standard 1
TEACHERS ACCOMMODATE STUDENT DIFFERENCES WHEN THEY PLAN FOR INSTRUCTION
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS COLLABORATIVELY PLAN AND IMPLEMENT INSTRUCTION DESIGNED TO ACCOMMODATE STUDENT DIFFERENCES
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS:
•	address learning styles
•	collaborate with teachers to use curriculum materials for a diverse student population, subject matter, and skills
•	set high and appropriate expectations for all students and her/himself
•	follow the instructional plan and seek clarification and directions as needed
Standard 2
TEACHERS ARE ACTIVE LEARNERS AS PART OF A SCHOOL COMMUNITY
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS ARE ACTIVE LEARNERS AS PART OF A SCHOOL COMMUNITY
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS:
•	actively participate in the Professional Development Process to achieve and give support for professional development
•	participate in professional development opportunities through district, state, colleges/universities, and professional organizations, business partnerships or other professional strategies
•	are aware of methods to access information about best practices and educational issues
12
share expertise and knowledge with others
•	collaborate with parent/families, when directed, in making educational decisions
•	are aware of and access parent/family and community resources as part of the educational team
•	give and receive feedback in a positive manner
Standard 3
TEACHERS PROVIDE FEEDBACK TO STUDENTS AND PARENTS/FAMILIES REGARDING THEIR LEARNING
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS PROVIDE FEEDBACK TO TEACHERS AND STUDENTS REGARDING THE STUDENT’S LEARNING
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS:
•	provide clear feedback to students regarding their learning
•	use assessment results as feedback to structure future student learning as a member of the instructional planning team
•	maintain a written record of student achievement as directed
•	support district, school, and classroom expectations through positive reinforcement
Standard 4
TEACHERS CONTINUOUSLY THINK SYSTEMATICALLY ABOUT THEIR PRACTICE TO IMPROVE THEIR EFFECTIVENESS
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS CONTINUOUSLY THINK SYSTEMATICALLY ABOUT THEIR PRACTICE TO IMPROVE THEIR EFFECTIVENESS
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS:
•	actively participate in the Professional Development Process to achieve and give support for professional development
•	elicit feedback from colleagues to improve instructional effectiveness
•	integrate feedback and reflection into instructional directed activities
•	seek advice of others
•	develop an awareness of research-based best practices that support student achievement
•	learn from experience and colleagues
•	coach colleagues to higher levels of effectiveness
•	connect your daily work practices to the individuals, classroom, school, community, and world
13
Standard 5
TEACHERS CREATE CLASSROOMS IN WHICH STUDENTS WANT TO LEARN, DO LEARN AND BECOME RESPONSIBLE FOR THEIR OWN LEARNING
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS SUPPORT TEACHERS IN CREATING CLASSROOMS IN WHICH STUDENTS WANT TO LEARN, DO LEARN AND BECOME RESPONSIBLE FOR THEIR OWN LEARNING
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS:
•	affirm success
•	demonstrate awareness of students and their activities
•	develop empathy, rapport, and personal interactions among students, peers, and other adults with Multicultural, Gender and Ability Fair perspective
•	establish and consistently maintain expectations and routines that are Multicultural, Gender and Ability Fair and appropriate to all students
•	organize the physical facilities of the classroom as directed
•	promote respectful interactions among students
•	promote respectful interactions between all students and adults
•	maximize time spent actively engaged in academic activities; minimize time spent waiting for activities to get started, making transitions between activities, sitting with nothing to do, or engaging in misconduct
•	promote student self-discipline and responsibility
•	encourage class participation and interaction
•	exhibit a respectful attitude toward students
•	positively reinforce achievement and appropriate behavior
•	support a classroom environment in which students feel safe and willing to take academic risks
•	encourage work and study habits in the classroom
•	promote independent thinking, researching, and studying
•	promote independent and collective learning
Standard 6
TEACHERS CREATE LESSONS AND LEARNING ENVIRONMENTS THAT ARE STRUCTURED SO THAT STUDENTS CAN RELATE WHAT THEY KNOW TO NEW INFORMATION AND SITUATIONS
14
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS SUPPORT LESSONS AND LEARNING ENVIRONMENTS THAT ARE STRUCTURED SO THAT STUDENTS CAN RELATE WHAT THEY KNOW TO NEW INFORMATION AND SITUATIONS
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS:
•	monitor student performance using a variety of informal assessment tools and provide corrective feedback as directed
•	understand lessons and organize materials for instruction
•	review, adapt, and summarize lessons as directed
•	use strategies that encourage critical thinking and problem solving
•	demonstrate a knowledge of subject matter
•	know the subject matter and students’ learning styles, needs and experiences
•	know and use strategies that foster thinking, reasoning and problem solving by students
•	support lessons and learning environments that help students relate new information to what they already know
•	support lessons and learning environments that assist the teachers to integrate instruction across content areas and interdisciplinary themes
•	assist the teacher to provide opportunities for students to gain new knowledge and skills and to apply what they have learned in the context of their daily lives
•	in collaboration with the teacher, monitor student performance and provide corrective feedback
•	implement lessons and learning environments that are developmentally appropriate and challenging to students
•	implement lessons and learning environments that support Curriculum Content Standards and Grade Level Expectations
•	support environments where learning is active, experiential and engaging
15
Standard 7
TEACHERS IMPLEMENT INSTRUCTION IN WAYS THAT ENCOURAGE STUDENT LEARNING
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS IMPLEMENT INSTRUCTION IN WAYS THAT ENCOURAGE STUDENT LEARNING
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS:
•	implement instructional methods that accommodate differences in developmental levels and learning styles
•	focus on relevant and important aspects of the instructional materials and activities
•	relate new learning to students’ previous learning and experiences
•	Accommodate student differences with clear and appropriate oral directions and assignments.
•	Accommodate student differences with clear and appropriate written directions and assignments.
•	accommodate student differences through the use of appropriate wait time
•	use a variety of teaching strategies and techniques to foster student motivation
•	use teaching aids and instructional materials appropriately
•	facilitates cooperative learning in groups
•	provide hands on exercises and experiences
•	provide direct instruction, drill, practice, and feedback according to student needs
•	promote class participation and interaction
•	use a variety of questioning techniques/modes
•	pace instruction appropriately
•	arrange for physical and social conditions that are conducive to learning
•	communicate high expectations clearly to students
•	model learning to help students develop metacognitive (thinking about thinking) strategies
•	guide students to interact with the content (e.g., develop and answer factual and integrative questions, problem solve, and invent new ideas)
•	model the learning of higher order thinking and problem solving skills through collaboration/cooperation with colleagues
E.	PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN: The Minneapolis Federation of Teachers, Educational Assistant Chapter and the Minneapolis Public Schools have elected to use the Professional Development Plan (PDP) to support and enhance the performance of Educational Assistants. The goals of the District’s PDP process are to: improve student achievement and promote collegial and professional growth.
16
Participation in the PDP process will achieve these goals by:
•	focusing improvement efforts on instruction;
•	improving peer interaction and involvement;
•	increasing communication especially between educational assistants, administrators and teachers;
•	increasing parent/community participation;
•	focusing on inclusion in instruction, i.e. multicultural, gender fair, ability fair and developmentally appropriate instruction;
•	creating an environment which promotes risk-taking and trust;
•	sharing decisions with all of the stakeholders.
The PDP process requires employees to develop and enhance their skills in their area of responsibility. The mission of the District is to ensure that all students learn. Further, the professional development plan must support the School Improvement Plan of the site.
The PDP is an individualized self-improvement plan designed by an employee and the PDP team. It is believed that the employees will assume increased responsibility for professional growth because of the support of the team and the focus on student achievement. The PDP requirement that the employee seeks professional development as part of a team will enhance a spirit of collegiality.
Plan design for the implementation of the PDP process for Educational Assistants is the shared responsibility of the site leadership team, the site principal, Human Resources, Teacher and Instructional Services, and other departments within Minneapolis Public Schools. The Human Resources Department will convene a joint/labor management committee to provide recommendations and a timeline for the implementation of the staff development plan for Educational Assistants including the PDP process, the staff development day, the induction process for Educational Assistants new to the District as well as resources necessary to support these activities. The joint/labor management committee will finalize its recommendations no later than March 30, 1997.
The “Standards of Effective Instructional Support for Educational Assistants” is provided as a guide for Educational Assistants in the preparation of their PDPs. It is understood that not all members of the bargaining unit currently provide instructional support and may need to modify these standards and/or use other criteria to prepare their PDP. PDP does not apply to probationary or temporary Educational Assistants.
F.	CAREER DEVELOPMENT: The District and the union are committed to providing opportunities and appropriate incentives when feasible for current Educational Assistants who are preparing to be teachers with the Minneapolis Public Schools. The District and the union agree to continue to seek opportunities for collaborative efforts such as the Augsburg Reach Program, which supports Educational Assistants who wish to become teachers. It is hoped that many of the Educational Assistants recruited to pursue careers as teachers will represent the diversity in the Educational Assistant bargaining group and the students of the school district.
In an effort to promote career development for Educational Assistants, Minneapolis Public Schools will continue to provide, for Educational Assistants who are insurance-eligible and who are on an approved leave of absence for student teaching, the benefit coverage as described in Article XII, B: (1) Health Coverage, (2) Life Insurance, and (3) Dental Insurance.
Those Educational Assistants who successfully complete the transition to licensed teachers and return to the Minneapolis Public Schools will be eligible to convert their existing EA sick leave hours to equivalent dollar sick leave hours, based upon their new salary placement on the teachers salary schedule.
17
Also, in an effort to promote career development for Educational Assistants, the Minneapolis Federation of Teachers, Local 59, has amended their 1997-1999 contract, Article IX, Basic Schedules and Rates of Pay, Section D, Subdivision 2, to state:
Beginning the 1998-1999 school year, teachers hired with previous experience earned in employment within the Minneapolis Public Schools as an Educational Assistant, Associate Educator, Special Educational Assistant, Child Care Worker, Child Development Technician, or Bilingual Program Assistant, and whose work directly supported student instruction through contact with students and families shall be credited at the rate of one (1) year credit for each two (2) full years of employment in the District up to a maximum of five (5) years credit provided this experience is gained within the past ten (10) years.
ARTICLE VII.	Communication
A.	OTHER MEETINGS: Meetings may be held between the Board of Education and Local 59 at the request of either party as the need arises, at times mutually agreed upon, or pursuant to procedures established under PELRA.
B.	Any issues discussed at such meetings, as designated in A, and upon which mutual agreement is reached will be committed to writing and posted when appropriate.
C.	PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF AGREEMENT: Any agreements reached related to terms and conditions of employment as a result of the processes provided for in PELRA shall be incorporated in an appropriately designed document, a copy of which shall be distributed by the Board of Education to all employees in the unit.
ARTICLE VIII.	Holidays
All permanent employees represented by this bargaining unit are eligible for holiday pay for the number of hours they are assigned and work each day. Employees will receive holiday pay if the employee is paid for their regularly scheduled workday prior to the holiday. The holidays:
Thanksgiving day and following Friday, A day designated by the employer for observance December 24th	of Martin Luther King’s birthday
December 25th	Presidential Holiday
December 31st	Memorial Day
January 1st	Independence Day
Labor Day
Independence Day shall be a paid holiday for any Educational Assistant who is working during the period only if the employee is regularly scheduled the day before and after said holiday.
Labor Day shall be a paid holiday for those Educational Assistants who are paid for day(s) worked during the week containing Labor Day.
Non-duty paid holidays are: December 24th, December 25th, December 31st, January 1st.
18
ARTICLE IX.
Leaves of Absence
A.	GENERAL: Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, written requests for leave of absence shall be made by employees prior to the beginning of the period(s) of absence and no payment for any absence shall be made until the leave is properly approved. All leaves of absence without pay shall be granted at the discretion of the Employer and must be approved by the Employer in advance. Upon application by the employee, leaves of absence may be extended or renewed at the discretion of the Employer. (See the appropriate Leave of Absence Request form in the addendum section of this contract.)
Authorization for or denial of a requested leave of absence without pay of more than ten (10) working days duration shall be furnished to the employee in writing by the Employer within seven (7) working days of its receipt. All leave of absence requests shall be given reasonable consideration by the Employer.
Deductions from leave accumulations for an employee on leave with pay shall be made on a work shift basis. Accrual of vacation leave and sick leave benefits during the period of leave of absence with pay shall continue. If an employee is granted leave without pay, he/she will not be credited with vacation or sick leave accruals for the period of leave without pay with the exception of approved military leave.
The Employer, upon prior notice to the employee, may cancel any approved leave of absence at any time the Employer has evidence that the employee is using the leave for purposes other than those specified at the time of approval.
No leave of absence without pay shall be granted for the purpose of accepting other employment outside the District.
Any absence of an employee from scheduled duty that has not been previously authorized by the Employer may be deemed an absence without leave. Any employee absent without leave will be subject to disciplinary action, and any employee absent without leave for three (3) consecutive days may be deemed to have resigned her/his employment, provided that the Employer may grant approval for leave subsequent to the unauthorized absence if the employee can conclusively establish to the Employer that the circumstances surrounding the absence and failure to request leave were beyond the employee’s control.
B.	RETURN FROM LEAVE: Prior to returning from a leave of absence, the employee must indicate their intent to return to the district by submitting the designated form(s). If returning from a leave of six or more months, employees shall submit the designated form indicating their intent to return to the district no later than March 15 of the school year preceding the school year they intend to return.
All employees returning from a leave shall submit the designated form directly to the Human Resources Department. If returning from a leave of six months or less, the form shall first be signed by the principal/supervisor. Employees returning from a medical or maternity leave shall submit the designated form indicating their intent to return to work, along with the appropriate form from their physician indicating that they have medical clearance to return to work.
Any employee returning from an approved leave of absence as covered by this article who has complied with all the conditions upon which the leave was approved shall:
1.	Be returned to the assignment held at the time the leave was granted if the leave was for a period of up to six (6) months duration, or
2.	In the event the assignment held at the time the leave was granted has been abolished, the employee shall be reassigned to a vacant position for which qualified in the classification and department from which leave was granted, or
19
3.	In the event no vacancy exists in the classification from which leave was granted, the employee may either exercise Board of Education seniority to replace the least senior employee in the classification from which the leave was granted, provided the employee is qualified to perform the work of the less senior employee and if mutually agreeable to the employee and the Employer.
The salary rate for an employee reinstated following a leave of absence shall be the rate the employee held at the time the leave was granted or such rate as adjusted by a general adjustment to the class.
C.	LEAVES WITH PAY:
1.	Vacation
a.	Vacation with full pay will be accrued by employees certified to permanent positions and who work 20 hours a week or more.
1)	Employees on initial employment probation or reinstatement shall not be eligible to use accrued vacation until they reach the minimum number of accrued hours calculated by the following formula: 130 days worked X .0462 hours accrued X # of hours worked per day. Typical assignments and minimum accruals are listed below. Example of calculations:
Assignment	Formula	Accrual Needed
20 hrs/week	130 days worked X .0462 X 4 hrs/day	24.02
25 hrs/week	130 days worked X .0462 X 5 hrs/day	30.03
30 hrs/week	130 days worked X .0462 X 6 hrs/day	36.03
31 hrs/week	130 days worked X .0462 X 6.2 hrs/day	37.23
38.75 hrs/week	130 days worked X .0462 X 7.75 hrs/day	46.54
2)	On their anniversary date, full-time employees who qualify for vacation accrual and who have completed 130 days of continuous employment will be credited one year toward vacation increments for each year of continuous service worked.
3)	On their anniversary date, part-time employees who have completed probation will be credited one year toward vacation increments for each year that they are paid.
4)	Employees who change status between full-time and part-time, without a break in service, will retain the number of years of service that they earned toward vacation increments in their previous status. A change in status will, under no circumstance, result in an increase in the number of years of continuous service.
5)	Time on authorized leave of absence without pay will not be credited toward years of service. Such leaves will not be considered to interrupt the periods of employment before and after leave of absence, provided that an employee has accepted the first available position upon expiration of leave.
6)	Employees who have been laid off will be considered to have been continuously employed if they accept the first available position, provided that any absence of twelve (12) consecutive months will not be counted toward years of service for vacation entitlement.
20
7)	Upon return to work, employees will be credited for the time served on duty disability pension as the result of disability incurred on the job. This time will be used for the purpose of determining the amount of vacation to which they are entitled each year thereafter.
b.	VACATION ALLOWANCE. Vacation entitlement for those employees qualifying will be the number of days leave from work with pay as normally accrue in consecutive periods as described below.
1)	Vacation with full pay shall be calculated by multiplying the number of hours worked by .0462, not to exceed twelve (12) working days each year for the first seven (7) years of employment.
2)	Vacation with full pay shall be calculated by multiplying the number of hours worked by .0615, not to exceed sixteen (16) working days each year beginning with the eighth (8th) year of employment.
3)	Vacation with full pay shall be calculated by multiplying the number of hours worked by .0808, not to exceed twenty-one (21) days each year beginning with the sixteenth (16th) year of employment.
4)	Vacation with full pay shall be calculated by multiplying the number of hours worked by .1, not to exceed twenty-six (26) working days each year beginning with the twenty-first (21st) year of employment.
c.	VACATION CALCULATION. All vacation will be calculated on a direct proportion basis for all credited hours without regard to the calendar year. Credited hours shall include all hours worked but shall exclude overtime, unpaid leave, disability and worker’s compensation. Such leave may be cumulative up to and including two hundred eight (208.00 hours).
1)	All employees who work twenty (20) hours a week or more shall be eligible for vacation leave benefits at their current base pay rate for the position to which the employee is permanently certified regardless of whether or not the employee is working temporarily in a position carrying a different base pay rate at the time the vacation is taken. Employees who are reduced to below 20 hours may use accrued vacation. Newly employed, reemployed or reinstated employees shall not be eligible to utilize vacation benefits during the first 130 days of employment.
2)	The basis for accrual of vacation hours shall be the number of hours compensated as an employee of the Board of Education.
3)	Employees certified to a permanent position prior to January 1, 1973 will be allowed to accrue a negative balance in their vacation amount; this amount is not to exceed the anticipated vacation earnings in the immediate succeeding twelve-month period. The Employer shall keep a current record of employee vacation earning and the accruals, which shall appear on the employee’s payroll check stub.
d.	USE OF VACATION.
1)	Employees certified to a permanent position on or after January 1, 1973, may utilize only vacation accrued to the date of their return from vacation
21
leave. The anniversary date for purposes of increased leave shall be the beginning of the pay period immediately following the completion of the appropriate number of work years.
2)	Request for vacation leave must be submitted to the employee’s immediate supervisor or principal by the employee at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the absence requested and is subject to the principal or supervisor’s approval. The forty-eight (48) hours advance notice requirement may be waived.
3)	When it is necessary for the Employer to deny an employee’s vacation leave request because of the number of employee’s requesting leave within the individual departments or schools, the Employer shall give priority to employees in the order of their most recent date of permanent certification to any position by the Board of Education; the employee with the earliest date shall have first choice, the employee having the next earliest date shall have second choice, and so on, until all employees have chosen.
4)	Upon separation from employment, permanent employees shall receive their unused accumulated vacation as a cash payment. Any vacation cash-out shall be paid at the employee’s base rate at time of separation.
5)	Upon approval by the supervisor, employees may use accumulated vacation leave benefits or compensatory time off as an extension of sick leave, when all sick leave benefits have been exhausted. Vacation leave benefits utilized as an extension of sick leave shall be subject to the same conditions regulating the use of sick leave.
6)	Should an employee become ill or disabled while on vacation on duty days, vacation leave may be changed to sick leave, effective the date of illness or disability, upon notice to and approval by the employee’s supervisor. Upon such notice, employees may be requested by the Employer to furnish evidence of such illness that is acceptable to the Employer.
7)	Vacation will begin on the first working day absent from duty. When said vacation leave includes a holiday, said holiday will not be considered as one of the vacation days.
8)	Earned vacation shall be taken when school is not in session whenever possible and shall be on the basis of seniority within each building or department. All vacation must be taken within the assigned work year.
However, where the employee has earned vacation pay in excess of the time that is available within recess periods or breaks, or where the employee is required to work during recess periods or breaks, vacation time may be taken at other times in addition to recess periods and breaks. Such arrangements must have the approval of the building principal and department head. In the event vacation cannot be used, it shall be carried over to the following year if it does not exceed the maximum number of vacation hours accrued. If the number of accrued vacation hours exceeds the maximum, the employee shall be paid for all excess hours at the end of the calendar year.
22
9)	Upon termination of employment for any reason other than layoff, employees will be required to make refund for vacation used in excess of accrual at the time of termination.
Employees who are laid off and have used vacation in excess of accrual will not be required to make a refund of excess vacation used until the employee is reemployed.
10)	Accrued vacation time cannot be used during a time of disciplinary suspension without pay.
11)	An employee who is or has been reinstated following separation or who is or has been reemployed within two (2) years following separation will, after five (5) consecutive years of service following such reinstatement or reemployment, receive credit for prior service for vacation benefits. No such credit will be applied to an employee reinstated or reemployed for the second or subsequent time.
2.	Sick Leave
a.	GENERAL
1)	CALCULATION. Sick leave with full pay shall be accrued by employees certified to permanent positions and who work 20 hours a week or more.
Employees on initial employment probation or reinstatement shall not be eligible to use accrued sick leave until they reach the minimum number of accrued hours calculated by the following formula: 130 days worked X .0462 hours accrued X # of hours worked per day. Typical assignments and minimum accruals are listed below. Example of calculations.
Assignment	Formula	Accrual Needed
20 hrs/week	130 days worked X .0462 X 4 hrs/day	24.02
25 hrs/week	130 days worked X .0462 X 5 hrs/day	30.03
30 hrs/week	130 days worked X .0462 X 6 hrs/day	36.03
31 hrs/week	130 days worked X .0462 X 6.2 hrs/day	37.23
38.75 hrs/week	130 days worked X .0462 X 7.75 hrs/day	46.54
Sick leave shall be accrued by employees by applying the formula above at the rate of .0462 times (x) total credited hours without regard to the calendar year. Credited hours shall include all hours worked, including military leave, sick leave and vacation and shall exclude overtime, unpaid leave, disability and worker’s compensation.
The maximum amount of sick leave that may be accrued is unlimited.
2)	USES OF SICK LEAVE. The school district and the union jointly agree to the following assumptions regarding sick leave usage:
Regular good attendance is necessary for productive classrooms and improved student achievement.
Building or worksite morale is important and is maintained when each employee routinely meets his or her own work requirements.
23
The employer and the union have a mutual commitment to minimizing economic and service costs associated with employee absences due to sick leave.
Sick leave use by individuals must be consistent with the provisions of the contract.
Administrators should monitor and manage sick leave usage in a consistent manner district-wide, communicate to employees regularly, and recognize and reward good attendance.
The word “illness” as it occurs in this Article shall be understood to include bodily disease or injury or mental affliction, whether or not a precise diagnosis is possible, when such disease or affliction is, in fact, disabling. (See also Child Care Leave)
Necessary ocular, dental, chiropractic, podiatry and medical care of the employee shall be recognized as a proper cause for granting sick leave.
Employees who are reduced to below 20 hours may use accrued sick leave.
Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinators and childcare Assistants employed in the school-age childcare summer program may use accrued sick leave. All other eligible classifications of Educational Assistants employed during the summer session will be allowed to use a maximum of two (2) days of accrued sick leave. This will be a Pilot Program and will sunset at the expiration of the contract. At the conclusion of the 2005 summer session, the program will be evaluated and reconsidered for future contracts.
3)	NOTIFICATION WHEN ABSENT. To be eligible for sick leave payment, an employee must notify her/his principal or supervisor or her/his designee as soon as possible but not later than the starting time of her/his scheduled shift. This notice may be waived if the employee can conclusively establish that he/she could not reasonably have been expected to comply with this requirement because of circumstances beyond the control of the employee.
4)	VERIFICATION. Sick leave usage shall be subject to approval and verification by the Employer who may require the employee to furnish a report from a recognized physical or mental authority attesting to the necessity of the leave, and other information the Employer deems necessary, as provided in the article herein titled “Fitness for Duty”. The employer may require medical verification with advance notice to the employee and/or in cases of suspected fraudulent sick leave claims. Sick leave benefits when authorized shall be paid at the employee’s current base pay rate.
5)	MEDICAL LEAVE. A disabled employee who, because of illness or injury, has exhausted all sick leave benefits may be granted a medical leave of absence without pay. The seniority status of a disabled employee who is granted a medical leave of absence shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the article herein titled “Seniority”.
24
An employee requesting a medical leave of absence without pay shall be required to furnish conclusive evidence of disability to the Employer. If the employee fails to furnish conclusive evidence that the absence from duty is necessary or if the employee fails to undergo an evaluation or furnish a medical report as requested by the Employer in accordance with the article herein titled “Fitness for Duty”, the Employer shall have the right to require the employee to return to work on a specified date. Should the employee not return to work on such specified date, the employee may be considered to have resigned in accordance with the article herein titled “Absence Without Leave”.
All sick leave that has been accumulated by an employee shall be canceled upon the date of separation from employment. Accumulated sick leave will be restored upon reemployment within two (2) years after separation from employment.
b.	SICK LEAVE POOL
Purpose:
The purpose of the Sick Leave Pool is to provide additional sick leave days to those employees suffering from a catastrophic accident or illness as verified by the employee’s physician, and substantiated in writing by the Sick Leave Pool Committee.
Qualifications:
1.	The employee has no accrued sick leave.
2.	The employee must request and be granted a leave of absence from Human Resources and meet the following criteria:
o An accident with major injury causing absence from the employee over an extended period of time, that is substantiated in writing by the Sick Leave Pool committee; or
o A serious illness causing absence by the employee over an extended period of time that is substantiated by the Committee; or
o A serious recurring illness causing periodic absences by the employee over an extended period of time that is substantiated by the Committee.
1)	MEMBERSHIP
All Educational Assistants of the Minneapolis Public Schools, as defined in Article II (A) of this Agreement, are eligible to be members of the Sick Leave Pool provided they have completed probation and work twenty (20) or more hours per week. They must join the sick leave pool within thirty (30) working days after completing probation or within thirty (30) working days after the beginning of any succeeding school year.
Educational Assistants new to the District and joining the sick leave pool within thirty (30) working days after completing probation^ must contribute four (4) hours of sick leave at the time of enrollment.
25
Thereafter, an Educational Assistant electing to join the sick leave pool after the date of his/her first eligibility must contribute the number of hours that would have been deducted had the employee joined the pool at the initial time of eligibility.
For the 2003-2005 contract period only, an eligible employee who elects to join the sick leave pool subsequent to the date of his/her first eligibility has a one time opportunity to contribute eight (8) hours of sick leave in order to join. The District and Union will jointly select a date by which the employee election must be completed and will communicate this one time option to potential participants.
At the end of the school year if the balance of the hours in the sick leave pool is less than 1,000, each member shall contribute an equal number of hours, not to exceed four (4) hours to restore the total number of hours in the pool to 1,000. The hours shall be deducted from each member effective November 15 of the following school year.
In addition to the above annual donation, an additional donation of four (4) hours per member shall be made whenever the number of hours in the pool is 100 or less.
Donations shall be made in full one-hour increments. No fractional hour donations shall be made.
In the event that a member does not have four (4) hours of unused sick leave at the time a deduction to the pool is required, the member shall be suspended from participating in the pool and no deduction shall be made until the member has accrued four (4) unused hours of sick leave. At that time, the member shall be reinstated in the pool and the deduction shall be made.
Educational Assistants who have accessed the sick leave pool shall remain members until they have reimbursed an equal number of days/hours as they have withdrawn from the sick leave pool.
A request by an Educational Assistant to withdraw from membership in the pool must be in writing to the Human Resources Department, no later than November 1.
c> All days donated to the sick leave pool shall be irretrievable by the donor.
2)	ADMINISTRATION.
a)	The sick leave pool shall be administered by a six (6) person committee, three (3) to be appointed by the union and three (3) to be appointed by the Superintendent of Schools, or his or her designee.
26
b)	The Committee will meet on an “as needed” basis to review requests for sick leave pool usage, but must meet at least three times per year at a minimum.
c)	The Committee shall present an accounting of the pool’s operation to the Educational Assistants Executive Board_________________and the
Superintendent’s Designee at the beginning of each school year.
d)	The Committee’s decision regarding an applicant’s eligibility for the sick leave pool shall be final. The decisions are not subject to the grievance procedure. If the Committee is deadlocked, the “tie” will be resolved by granting the participating employee access to sick leave pool benefits. The Committee may seek a second opinion from another physician if it feels the information provided by the employee’s physician is inadequate or inconclusive regarding the employee’s eligibility for access to pool benefits.
3)	OPERATION.
a)	A member of the sick leave pool is eligible for the benefit after exhausting all of her/his accumulated sick leave and is not covered by disability from pension or social security.
The sick leave pool benefit begins after five (5) consecutive working days from the time the Educational Assistant has depleted her/his individual accumulated sick leave.
b)	Sick leave pool days shall be used only for the personal illness of the Educational Assistant.
c)	Application, in writing, made to the Human Resources Department must be accompanied by verification from the employee’s physician/psychiatrist that the applicant is/was unable to work. The Human Resources Department shall verify the applicants membership in the Sick Leave Pool
Subsequent to approval by the Sick Leave Pool Committee the participating employee must verify illness each thirty (30) calendar days that they continue to draw from the sick leave pool, and_shall submit regular service reports during the time of disability as a condition of receiving payment from the pool.
d)	Effective July 1, 2003, the maximum cumulative Sick Leave Pool benefit shall be ninety (90) working days (four {4} hours per day) for any participant during their career as an Educational Assistant.
e)	Sick leave days from the pool may be drawn for only those weeks of the school year and hours of the normal work day_that the member would have been regularly assigned to work.
f)	Members on leave of absence (other than for medical reasons) vacation or layoff are not eligible for benefits from the pool.
q)	Members drawing from the sick leave pool do not accrue sick leave or vacation time, but retain eligibility and district contribution
27
for insurance benefits.
EXCLUSIONS: Sick leave pool days will not be available for any treatment and/or surgery that is considered elective in nature.
c.	ANNUAL CASH OUT PAYMENT FOR UNUSED SICK LEAVE. Employees who have accumulated at least 300 hours of unused sick leave may, at their option, continue accumulating sick leave or receive a cash payment at the beginning of each calendar year for any unused sick leave above 300 hours earned but not used in the preceding calendar year at the following rate:
HOURS ACCUMULATED	PERCENT OF PAY RATE
300-719	50%
720-959	75%
960+	100%
Payment for unused sick leave is based upon the rate of pay on December 31 of the year in which it was earned.
d.	CAREER TRANSITION TRUST FOR UNUSED SICK LEAVE (section moved from previous Article XIX. Severance Pay Plan)
1.	Definition of Plan:
a)	Educational Assistants who meet the eligibility requirements may participate in the Career Transition Trust by converting the allowable number of accrued sick leave hours at 100% of their hourly rate of pay, into payments to the State of Minnesota Deferred Compensation Plan. The Career Transition Trust Plan is an employer contribution which allows for such conversion until the employee reaches the maximum capped deposit for the tier of benefits. The number of hours, which may be converted, is based on the accrued sick leave hours on January 1st of the year the conversion will be made.
b)	Educational Assistants may elect to participate in the Career Transition Trust plan at any time they have met the eligibility requirements for participation in Subdivision. 2.
c)	The total amount of dollars converted by an Educational Assistant under the Career Transition Trust program is capped at $10,000.
d)	Any hours which have been converted into the Career Transition Trust will not be available for use as sick leave.
e)	Educational Assistants who resign and subsequently are reemployed by the District are not credited with their previous sick leave accrual hours.
2.	Eligibility For Participation In The Career Transition Trust:
a)	. Sick Leave Balance
28
To be eligible to convert accrued sick leave hours, Educational Assistants must have a sick leave balance of at least 300 hours on September 1st of any given year.
Educational Assistants must enroll annually to participate in the Career Transition Trust. If the Educational Assistant’s sick leave hours drop below the eligibility minimum of 300 hours, the Educational Assistant’s participation is suspended until the Educational Assistant reaches the minimum of 300 hours required for eligibility and participation.
b)	. Deposit of Benefit
Payment to the State of Minnesota Deferred Compensation Plan or 403B Plan_shall be made in March of each year the Educational Assistant is eligible and elects to participate.
The Career Transition Trust is subject to the rules of the State of Minnesota Deferred Compensation Plan under MS 352.96 and the Internal Revenue Service.
3.	Benefit Tiers And Conversion Formula:
a) Annual Conversion
The number of hours an Educational Assistant may convert on an annual basis is determined by the balance of their accrued sick leave hours.
Conversion is as follows:
Educational Assistants who have an accrued sick leave balance of 300 hours or more on September 1st may convert up to 45 hours at their hourly rate of pay at the time the deposit is made to their Deferred Compensation Account.
Educational Assistants who have an accrued sick leave balance of 480 hours or more on September 1st may convert up to 60 hours at their hourly rate of pay at the time the deposit is made to their Deferred Compensation Account.
3.	Chemical Dependency
Alcoholism and drug addiction will be recognized as illness. Sick leave pay for treatment of such illness will be contingent on four conditions: 1) the employee is evaluated and determined to be chemically dependent; 2) the employee undergo a prescribed period of hospitalization, institutionalization, or other agreed to treatment; 3) the employee, during or following the above care, participates in a planned program of treatment and rehabilitation; and 4) the employee participates in the planned aftercare program. The program plan must be approved by the Human Resources Department.
29
Chemical dependency shall not be accepted as a sole cause for disciplinary action. However, refusal of prescribed treatment by an employee, continued instances of poor job performance following treatment for, or use of, or appearing under the influence of, mood-altering chemicals on the job shall be a basis for disciplinary action, including discharge.
4.	Other Paid Leaves of Absence
a.	One day of sick leave per occurrence may be used because of an emergency illness in the employee’s immediate family (spouse, person regularly residing in the employee’s household, child, parents, brothers, sisters) including the birth of an employee’s own child.
b.	CRITICAL ILLNESS OR DEATH IN FAMILY.
1)	DEATH IN FAMILY. Employees may be granted a leave of absence for up to five (5) days in the event of the death of the employee’s mother, father, sister, brother, spouse, significant other, or child. Employees may be granted a leave of absence for up to four (4) days in the event of the death of the employee’s aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, grandparents, grandchildren, mother/father-in-law, son/daughter-in-law, sister/brother-in-law, parents of significant other, spouse’s immediate family, anyone who has the position of parent or child, or any person who has been a member of the employee’s household immediately prior to the critical illness or death of the individual.
2)	CRITICAL ILLNESS. Critical illness is defined as an illness that is life threatening, but recovery is possible. Employees may be granted a leave of absence for up to four (4 ) days in the event of the critical illness of the employee’s mother, father, sister, brother, children, grandchildren, son/daughter-in-law, spouse, significant other, parents of spouse, or parents of significant other and anyone who has the position of parent or child, or any person who has been a member of the employee’s household immediately prior to the critical illness.
3)	LEAVES FOR CRITICAL ILLNESS AND DEATH IN THE FAMILY. Such leaves shall be with pay and shall not be deducted from the employee’s sick leave. The District reserves the right to require proof of critical illness or death.
Employees will be allowed to use vacation days in conjunction with the paid leave of absence for a death or critical illness of a family member.
4)	CRITICAL ILLNESS OR DEATH OF A FRIEND. Employees may take up to two (2) days, to be deducted from the employee’s sick leave for the critical illness or death of a friend.
c.	MILITARY RESERVE TRAINING. In accordance with State and Federal laws, any employee who is a member of any reserve component of the military forces of the United States required by official military orders or related authority to attend Military Reserve Training shall receive full wages at her/his current base pay rate for the period of the active duty required for such training not to exceed fifteen (15) days per calendar year.
d.	JURY DUTY. After due notice to the Employer, employees subpoenaed to serve as a witness or called and selected for jury duty, shall be allowed their regular
30
compensation at their current base pay rate for the period the court duty requires their absence from work duty, plus any expenses paid by the court. Such employees, so compensated, shall not be eligible to retain jury duty pay or witness fees and shall turn any such pay or fees received over to the Employer. If an employee is excused from jury duty prior to the end of her/his work shift, he/she shall return to work as directed by the Employer or make arrangement for a leave of absence.
e.	PRIVATE LITIGATION. Any absence whether voluntary or by legal order to appear or testify in private litigation, not in the status of an employee but as a plaintiff or defendant, shall not qualify for leave under this article and shall be charged against accumulated leave or be without pay. In no event shall an employee be granted a leave of absence with pay to appear or testify in any court proceedings or proceedings conducted by any administrative agency when the employee is a plaintiff, complainant or witness on behalf of a plaintiff or complainant in a proceeding against the Board of Education.
f.	RELIGIOUS OBSERVANCES. Up to two (2) days per calendar year, charged to accrued vacation, sick leave, or compensatory time, may be used for religious observances when school is in session. The employee must notify the employer at least ten calendar days in advance of the religious holiday of her/his intent to observe such holiday. The employer may waive this ten calendar day requirement if the employer determines that absence of such employee will not substantially interfere with the employer’s function.
g.	PERSONAL LEAVE. Up to three (3) days per calendar year, charged to accrued sick leave, may be used for personal leave to conduct business or activities that cannot be scheduled on non-duty days and which are not authorized under other leave provisions.
h.	CHILDCARE/MATERNITY/ADOPTION LEAVE.
1)	A leave of absence shall be granted to an employee for the purpose of providing full-time care for her/his newborn or newly adopted child or children. Whenever possible, arrangements for such leaves shall be made at least 45 days prior to the starting date of the leave. Arrangements for leaves granted for purposes of adoption shall be made upon official notification of the pending adoption. A planned date of return to duty shall also be arranged at the same time. Changes in the dates planned for commencement or termination of child care leave shall be granted only if requested at least twenty (20) calendar days prior to the originally scheduled date.
2)	Maternity cases will include a presumption of disability for a period up to six (6) weeks following delivery, provided such time away from work is recommended by the employee’s physician. An employee may use sick leave pursuant to the sick leave provision of the agreement during a period of disability.
3)	The dates of commencement and termination of childcare leave shall be at the discretion of the employee in consultation with her/his physician, if appropriate, and with the employee’s supervisor.
31
4)	Leaves granted for maternity, paternity and adoption shall not extend beyond one calendar year. Failure to return to duty upon termination of leave shall be considered grounds for discharge.
5)	Upon five (5) duty days’ notice of intent to return to duty, an employee may return to duty prior to the approved date of termination of leave in the event of interruption of pregnancy or cancellation of adoption.
6)	In the case of adoption, Educational Assistants may use their sick leave for duty days prior to the arrival of an adopted child when the adoption procedures include a legal requirement that the adopting parent be present. Use of sick leave for this purpose shall not exceed the duty days included in the twenty-two (22) days prior to the arrival of an adopted child. Such use of duty days within twenty-two (22) days need not be used consecutively. In addition, Educational Assistants may use their sick leave for the duty days included in the twenty-two (22) days following the arrival of the adopted child.
7)	The probationary period shall be extended by a period of time equal to the total number of duty days on leave. A request for child care leave shall not be used as a basis for discharge.
8)	Employees on child care leave for the period not covered under sick leave, may continue the individual health and life insurance programs of the District under the provisions of the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act and if extending beyond the Federal Statute by paying the full premiums regularly as required by the District.
i.	LEAVE BENEFITS AND WORKER’S COMPENSATION BENEFITS.
Any employee who by reason of sickness or injury receives worker’s compensation benefits may do either of the following:
1)	Retain the worker’s compensation benefits and request to be placed on medical leave of absence without pay, or
2)	Retain the worker’s compensation benefit and receive from the Board of Education any available earned accumulated sick leave, vacation leave, or other accumulated leave benefit.
The total weekly compensation including leave and worker’s compensation benefits shall not exceed the regular weekly base pay rate of an employee.
D. LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY.
1.	An employee may apply for an unpaid leave of absence, not to exceed one calendar year, for any reason not otherwise provided in this Agreement. Granting such leave is discretionary by the District.
2.	Military leave, leave for purposes of Union business or educational leave approved by the Employer in writing for a specific duration shall not be subject to cancellation.
3.	Where applicable, employees may be granted a leave of absence for purposes of Union business in accordance with M.S. 179.66, Subd. 10.
32
4.	School Conference And Activities Leave. An employee may be granted up to a total of sixteen (16) hours of unpaid leave during any school year to attend school conferences or classroom activities related to the employee’s dependent(s), provided such conferences or classroom activities cannot be scheduled during non-work hours. When the leave cannot be scheduled during non-work hours and the need for the leave is foreseeable, the employee must provide at least three (3) day written notice of the leave and make a reasonable effort to schedule leave so as not to disrupt unduly the operations of the Employer. The employee may substitute vacation or compensatory time for this purpose according to the provisions of Article IX.
5.	Family Medical Leave Act. The Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) of 1993 provides additional rights while on leave of absence. Employees may take up to twelve (12) weeks of leave (per 12 month rolling year) to care for a spouse/child/parent, care for oneself, or due to the birth/adoption of a child or foster child. Health insurance costs would be the same as if the employee was actively working for that twelve (12) week period as defined in Article XII, Group Insurance Benefits. To determine if a leave under the provisions of the Family and Medical Leave Act will be a paid or unpaid leave of absence contact the school district Employee Benefits Department.
ARTICLE X.	Fitness for Duty
When a question exists related to appropriate leave administration or ability to work or safety to individuals, co-workers or others, the Employer may require employees to undergo a medical and/or psychological evaluation that will enable the Employer to determine the employee’s fitness for performance of her/his duties. When the Employer requires an evaluation or report from the School Physician or other physician or psychologist selected by the Board of Education, other than such reports required in Article IX, the Employer shall:
A.	Pay the fee charged for such evaluation or report if such is not covered through the health insurance program made available to the employees by the Employer, and
B.	Compensate the employee at her/his base pay rate for regularly scheduled work time the employee was unable to work due to obtaining the evaluation if the evaluation result is that the employee is found fully fit to perform her/his work duties and responsibilities.
ARTICLE XI.	Salaries
A.	SCHEDULES: Appendix A, attached hereto and incorporated herein, shall be the schedule of hourly salaries for employees. When an employee transfers to a new job classification or the employees position has been studied and reclassified, salary shall be set at the step of the new schedule which is closest to but not less than the employee’s current salary.
B.	SALARY PROGRESSION: All employees shall be considered for advancement to the next higher step within the salary range for their classification upon their anniversary date. See Article XIV, B. Such increases may be withheld or delayed in cases where the employee’s job performance has been of a less than satisfactory level in which case the employee shall be notified in writing that the increase is being withheld or delayed and of the specific reasons therefore. All such denials or delays shall be grievable under the provisions of Article XXII. of the Agreement.
All increases approved pursuant to this section shall be made effective on the employee’s anniversary date as defined.
33
For the 2003-2005 contract period, all employees who are eligible for a progression based on the salary schedule for their specific classification shall make a one step salary progression effective March 1, 2005.
C.	SALARY UPON DEMOTION AND LAYOFF: When an employee is demoted into a classification with a lower salary range, the salary rate paid to the employee in the classification into which he/she has demoted shall be equal to the salary step within the salary range which is closest to, but which does not exceed, the previous salary rate paid to the employee in the classification from which he/she demoted.
D.	LANE CHANGE: Effective July 1, 2004, employees may be eligible for a lane change based on coursework or clock hours earned prior to or subsequent to hire. A lane change is a salary progression based on coursework or clock hours. Employees are eligible for one (1) lane change per year (e.g. EAI to EAII). The process for securing a lane change is as follows:
■	In all level (I) positions the employee shall serve 1 full year in the classification to advance to the next lane (e.g. EA I to EA II).
■	Each movement from lane to lane shall require successful completion of 24 quarter credits or 240 clock hours or a combination of credits and clock hours (C.E.U’s) of District approved course work during employment within the District to be eligible to move to the next lane.
■	Credits: One (1) credit equals ten (10) clock hours of job-related training. College course work is credited based on job related courses and credits reported on official transcripts.
When an employee receives a lane change, he/she shall be placed on the step in the salary schedule for the new position that is one step above the step that is at least one dollar an hour higher than the employee’s former step level in the former classification.
The following positions are eligible to make a lane change:
■	Community School Coordinators
■	Educational Assistants
■	Family Learning Childcare Assistants
■	MPLS Kids Childcare Assistants
■	Indian Home School Liaison
For more specific information please refer to the Addendum for job descriptions.
E.	NEW CLASSIFICATION - SALARY: In the event the Employer has established a new job classification which is added to the bargaining unit, by agreement between the two parties or by determination of the Director, Bureau of Mediation Services, the parties agree to negotiate with one another concerning wages.
F.	OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY TIME: All hours worked beyond forty (40) hours in a week shall be compensated at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s regular hourly rate.
In lieu of receiving pay for overtime work, an employee may elect to have compensatory time off with pay. The option to elect to receive overtime pay or compensatory time shall belong exclusively to the employee. An employee electing to receive compensatory time shall be credited with one and one-half (1-1/2) hours of compensatory time for each one (1) hour of overtime worked.
When an employee transfers from one site or department to another site or department, any compensatory time balance will be paid and charged to the budget of the site or department the employee is leaving. All compensatory time balances will be paid out at the end of each fiscal year and will be charged to the site or department the employee was assigned to at the end of the employee’s regular assignment for that fiscal year. All compensatory time balances will be paid out to an employee who leaves District employment and will be charged to the site or department the employee is leaving.
34
Employees may accrue no more than two hundred forty (240) hours of compensatory time. All overtime worked after an employee has accrued two hundred forty (240) hours of compensatory time shall be paid for at the overtime rate of pay. Upon termination of employment, all balances of compensatory time remaining shall be paid at a rate no less than the average rate received by the employee over the last three (3) years of employment or the final regular hourly rate of pay, whichever is higher. For purposes of calculating overtime pay and compensatory time only, time worked shall be rounded to the nearest one-tenth (1/10) of an hour. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime pay or compensatory time.
G.	STRAIGHT TIME FOR ADDITIONAL WORK: Employees working less than forty (40) hours per week but more than their regular assignment may be credited with an hour of time off for each hour worked beyond their regular assignment. However, the Educational Assistant (“EA”) and her/his supervisor must agree when the EA will receive straight time off. In the absence of such agreement employees will be paid for time worked in accordance with wage and hour laws.
H.	BREAKS: Educational Assistants who work four (4) hours per day shall have a paid fifteen minute break during the work day on an “as you can” basis worked out with agreement with the supervisor. Educational Assistants who work six (6) hours per day shall have an additional ten (10) minute break. The fifteen (15) minute break and ten (10) minute break shall be taken in consecutive minutes of fifteen (15) and ten (10) minute blocks of time. Educational Assistants who work seven (7) hours or more per day shall have two fifteen (15) minute breaks.
Educational Assistants who work five (5) hours or more per day are entitled to a thirty (30) minute unpaid duty free lunch.
I.	MILEAGE: The mileage rate for use of personal automobiles for approved school business shall be the prevailing Internal Revenue Service rate.
J.	INDEMNIFICATION: The employee shall be indemnified and held harmless by the District from any and all demands, claims, suits, actions and legal proceedings brought against the employee arising within the scope of his/her employment or as an agent for the District, including the cost of defending against such claims provided that the employee:
1.	Was acting in the performance of the duties of this position; and,
2.	Was not guilty of malfeasance, willful neglect of duty, or bad faith.
ARTICLE XII.	Group Insurance Benefits
The District agrees to offer health, life and dental group insurance benefits to eligible Educational Assistants.
A.	Insurance Eligibility. To be eligible for insurance benefits the Educational Assistant must be paid on the Educational Assistant pay schedule.
1.	Basic Eligibility. The Educational Assistant must be assigned and working twenty (20) or more hours per week in a permanent assignment to qualify.
2.	Leaves of Absence. Educational Assistants on an approved leave of absence as defined in Article IX may participate in group insurance benefits subject to Article XII, C, 3.
3.	Educational Assistants on Layoff. Educational Assistants who are laid off may continue coverage at the Educational Assistants’ own expense as provided by federal and state continuation coverage laws.
35
B.	Benefit Coverage. The following benefits are available to eligible Educational Assistants. These benefits are subject to the terms of the contract between the insurance carrier and the District.
1.	Health Coverage. The Educational Assistant must enroll to receive health plan coverage. Educational Assistants may enroll in employee or family coverage.
a.	CONTRIBUTION-EMPLOYEE ONLY, Effective September 1, 2003 the District shall pay the full cost for single health coverage at the 2003-2004 contribution rate. Effective July 1, 2004, the District’s contribution is capped at the 2003-2004 rate.
b.	CONTRIBUTION-FAMILY. Effective July 1, 2004, the annual District contribution toward dependent coverage shall be $2,564. In no event shall the amounts paid by the Board of Education pursuant to this Article exceed the total premium for the least costly health insurance plan then in effect.
c.	CONTRIBUTION MARRIED COUPLE. Married employees enrolled in family coverage shall each be credited with the employee only contribution. One (1) spouse, designated by the couple, shall carry family coverage and receive the employee only contribution from both employees.
2.	Life Insurance.
BASIC LIFE INSURANCE . Insurance eligible Educational Assistants are automatically enrolled for $20,000 (plus Accidental Death and Dismemberment $20,000) of District paid basic life insurance coverage. To have a named beneficiary, an enrollment beneficiary designation card must be on file with the District.
Insurance eligible employees may purchase additional life insurance in $10,000 increments up to $100,000 in coverage. The amount of coverage existing employees may purchase with evidence of good health will be determined by the insurance carrier. Evidence of good health for new employees is not required for supplemental life if applied for during the first thirty- (30) days of employment.
3.	Dental Insurance.
Insurance eligible Educational Assistants are automatically enrolled for District paid single dental plan coverage.
4.	Disability Insurance - L.T.D.
The contract may be re-opened to negotiate participation in a disability insurance program upon receipt by the District of a recommendation by the Joint Labor/Management Committee on Benefits as to the program design.
5.	Insurance for Retirees.
a.	ELIGIBILITY. Effective September 1, 1992, employees who retire and have met the age and service requirement necessary to receive an annuity from the Minneapolis Employees Retirement Fund (MERF), the Public Employees Retirement Association (PERA) or the Minneapolis Teachers’ Retirement Fund Association (MTRFA) are allowed to remain in the active employees health and dental group insurance plans. Also, employees who retired after March 1, 1991, and have continuously participated in the District’s health and/or dental insurance
36
plans are eligible to continue coverage beyond the eighteen (18) month period under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA). Eligible retired employees are subject to the administrative requirements of the District, the carrier contracts, labor agreement, and state and federal law. Dependents may remain in the group until the retired employee is no longer eligible.
b.	PREMIUM PAYMENT. Unless otherwise provided for in the collective bargaining agreement, retired employees shall pay the total premium plus the additional two percent administrative fee charged under COBRA.
c.	ACTIVE EMPLOYEE DEDUCTION. Any additional premium cost associated with including retirees shall be assessed to active employees through a separate payroll deduction. The annual amount of the deduction for employees shall be determined by dividing the total additional premium for including retirees in the health plan or plans (as determined by the health plans based on enrollment as of May 1 of the preceding year) by the number of employees enrolled in health insurance coverage on the same date. The pay period deduction shall be determined by dividing the annual amount by the 19 pay period deductions. For the 1992-93 school year, there will not be a payroll deduction (the health plans have determined that an additional premium charge is not required at this time).
C.	Enrollment for Insurance Benefits: The Educational Assistant is automatically enrolled in life insurance. The Educational Assistant must enroll to be covered by health insurance. An Educational Assistant may waive all or some insurance coverage by completing a waiver of coverage form.
1.	Initial Enrollment. Educational Assistants who become insurance eligible must enroll within the first 30 calendar days of becoming eligible.
2.	Effective Date of Coverage. Enrollment forms must be received by the Employee Benefits Office before coverage is effective. Eligible Educational Assistants who begin work in August shall have coverage effective September 1. Educational Assistants starting after September 1 or who become benefit eligible after September 1 shall have coverage effective the date the enrollment forms are received in the Employee Benefit Office. Educational Assistants must be actively at work on the effective date of coverage.
3.	Leave of Absence. Educational Assistants on paid and unpaid leaves of absence may continue health and life insurance. Educational Assistants on paid leaves of absence must pay their portion of the premium (if any). Educational Assistants on unpaid leaves must pay the full premium cost of coverage. Failure to pay premium when due will cause coverage to lapse while on leave, must reenroll to obtain coverage. An Educational Assistant who does not reenroll within thirty (30) calendar days of returning from leave, must wait for the next open enrollment period to enroll.
4.	Maintaining Eligibility for Employer Contribution. The employer’s contribution continues as long as the Educational Assistant remains on the payroll in an insurance eligible position. Educational Assistants who complete their regular school year assignment shall receive coverage through August 31.
D.	Before-Tax Benefits.
1.	Insurance Deduction. Premiums deducted from the Educational Assistant’s check to pay for health insurance coverage are automatically taken on a before-tax basis, unless the Educational Assistant has indicated to the contrary in writing to the Employee Benefit Office. The premiums paid by the Educational Assistant, if any, are not subject to federal, state, and Social Security (FICA) taxes. Reports of earnings to MERF and 37
PERA and pension deductions will be based on gross earnings. The before-tax deductions are subject to the requirements of Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code as amended from time to time.
2.	Dependent Care Spending Account. An Educational Assistant may designate an amount per year from earnings in which there will be no federal, state and Social Security (FICA) taxes withheld, for dependent care (as defined in Section 12©5 of the Internal Revenue Code and amended from time to time) to allow the Educational Assistant to work.
3.	Flexible Spending Account (FSA): Beginning July 1, 1993, an Educational Assistant may designate an amount per year to be placed into a flexible spending account (as defined in Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code as amended from time to time). The amounts in the account may be used to reimburse the Educational Assistant for uncovered medical expenses. Amounts placed in the account are not subject to federal, state and Social Security (FICA) taxes. Reports of earnings to applicable pension plans will be based on gross earnings.
4.	Deferred Compensation. The District will make an employer payment to deferred compensation subject to the limits contained in Minn. Statute 356.24 and in this Section. The District payment will be made to the State of Minnesota Deferred Compensation Plan or the current_403B Plan in an annual matching amount up to $650.00 for employees participating in the Municipal Employee Retirement Fund (MERF) and up to $350.00 for employees participation in the Public Employees Retirement Association (PERA). All contributions made to deferred compensation (employer and employee) are subject to FICA and retirement contributions. The District will match any amount of employee contributions up to $650.00 cap for MERF participants and $350.00 cap for PERA participants. The District’s matching contribution will be made on a pay period determined by the school District. Only deductions that employees defer during the match period shall be matched by the District.
ARTICLE XIII.	Hours/Days
A.	FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES: An Educational Assistant shall be a full-time employee if said employee works thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hours or more.
B.	PART-TIME EMPLOYEES: An Educational Assistant shall be a part-time employee if said employee works less than thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hours per week.
C.	HOURS: Hours of Educational Assistants shall be based on seniority and hourly allocations at any site or program.
D.	A reduction in hours shall be considered a reduction in force as defined in Article XVII.
E.	BUS DUTY HOURS: Interested Educational Assistants shall be offered available bus duty hours annually, based on seniority and other special considerations and compensated for those hours at their current hourly rate of pay. “Special considerations” include, but are not limited to, such factors as the special programmatic/IEP needs of the students and whether the open bus hours are in reasonable proximity to the employee’s home or the employee is willing to meet the bus.
Bus hours that require special considerations such as training and experience in a special education program e.g., Autism, EBD, etc., will be first offered to Special Education Assistants. Any remaining open bus hours will first offered to qualified Educational Assistants based on seniority within building, site, or program.
38
Bus hours will not be considered part of an Educational Assistant’s regular annual assignment for bidding, lateral transfer, or bumping purposes. However, bus hours may be reflected in the position posting.
F.	WORK YEAR: Annually no later than the last duty-day, the Superintendent or her/his designee shall issue a clarification letter regarding budgeted days for Educational Assistants_for the next school year. The letter shall include the starting and ending dates of the school year, non-duty days I holidays for the school year, days and dates of other budgeted days to include three (3) paid staff development days annually and other relevant calendar or budgetary information. The student contact days of the school year combined with the information contained in this letter shall define the normal work year for Educational Assistants. The intent of the letter is to assist building Administrators in planning for effective usage of these budgeted days for professional development activities or other school based activities involving Educational Assistants.
The letter shall identify the number of non-student contact days budgeted for members of this bargaining unit.
This letter shall be issued to all building Administrators, building secretaries, and the Union.
ARTICLE XIV.	Seniority
A.	SENIORITY: Educational Assistants hired prior to September 1, 1970 shall have a seniority number based on initial date of continuous employment in the District. The seniority number of Educational Assistants hired after September 1, 1970, shall be the Civil Service date of certification. The seniority number of Educational Assistants hired after August 26, 1991, shall be the date the employee is assigned and working in a permanent position.
Seniority for Associate Educators/School Success Program Assistants: Associate Educators/School Success Program Assistants who previously worked as Educational Assistant I, II or III, or in any of the other job titles or classifications included within the Educational Assistant unit contract, shall retain their initial seniority date, and continue to accrue seniority during the time in which they work as an Associate Educator/School Success Program Assistant. Associate Educators and School Success Program Assistants do not have site or program seniority per Article XV, Section B.
Individuals newly hired to the District as Associate Educators/School Success Program Assistants, shall have a seniority date which is the first date of actual employment in the position for which they were hired, and shall accrue district seniority during the time they work in said position.
Seniority for Special Education Assistants: Seniority is based on the initial date of continuous employment with the District as a Special Education Assistant and the seniority ranking within the citywide special education program site at which they work. Special Education Assistants working in Additional Adult Assistant positions do not have program or site seniority, but retain their District seniority based on the initial date of continuous employment as a Special Education Assistant for purposes of transfer (per Article XV, Transfer And Reassignment), and bidding or bumping (per ARTICLE XVII, Reduction In Force).
B.	ANNIVERSARY DATE: The anniversary date, for purposes of advancement on the salary schedule, shall be the date when the Educational Assistant completes each full year of service. The anniversary date shall be adjusted when the Educational Assistant is on an approved unpaid leave of absence.
39
C.	A seniority list of all employees within this bargaining unit shall be prepared once each year. This seniority list shall be posted on the District’s website and may be posted in each building and program site. The District will provide a hardcopy to the Union.
Educational Assistants shall notify the Human Resources Department in writing within twenty (20) working days if there are discrepancies in the published list.
D.	Employees within a given classification shall not be eligible for placement in any other classification unless they meet the certification requirements or have previously been certified to that classification.
ARTICLE XV.	Transfer and Reassignment
A.	VOLUNTARY TRANSFER: A voluntary transfer is a change to a different position within the current classification. Voluntary transfer procedures must be followed prior to filling a vacancy through other means.
1.	In all classifications, the existing vacancy is posted on-line for five (5) working days for voluntary bidding by Educational Assistants within the classification posted. Interested permanent employees outside of the classification posted will apply using the promotional process to be considered for the position. A copy of the vacancy list shall be available on-line and will also be provided to the union.
2.	Transfer requests within the same classification must be made by bidding on-line.
3.	The three (3) most senior bidders and two (2) other internal District candidates will be
guaranteed an interview for the position. The site will select the best-qualified employee who meets the site’s needs as determined by the principal, administrator, designee and/or site team.
4.	Excessed employees who do not secure a position through voluntary transfer will secure a position during the bumping process using their seniority as outlined in Article XVII, Reduction in Force.
5.	One Voluntary Transfer Per School Year: After having passed probation, each Educational Assistant may voluntarily transfer only once each school year.
6.	Waiting Period: The maximum waiting period between acceptance of a position and transfer shall be no longer than 10 working days.
7.	Voluntary Transfer for Special Education Assistants: The following voluntary transfer procedure applies only to the Special Education Classification.
The five (5) most senior Special Education Assistant bidders will be referred by the Human Resources Department to site/program for interview. The site/program must select one of the five (5) for the position. If all of the top five (5) bidders decline the position, the next most senior group of five (5) bidders will be referred to the site or program. If at any time should there be fewer than five (5) bidders on a position, that number will be referred to the site/program for interview.
B.	APPLICATION AND SELECTION PROCESS FOR ASSOCIATE EDUCATOR (AE) AND SCHOOL SUCCESS PROGRAM ASSISTANT (SSPA): Associate Educators/School Success Program Assistants, Educational Assistants, or any other applicants who meet the minimum eligibility requirements of an AE/SSPA may apply at any time, even if they have not completed their probationary period for a posted position by submitting an application, letter of interest, current resume and transcripts to the Human Resources Department prior to the posting deadline. Each applicant who is
40
screened and selected as a candidate for a posted position will be granted an interview by the specific school/program/department, and informed of the outcome of the interview process in writing. A selected candidate(s) will be hired to fill the specific position(s) for which they applied. Associate Educator/School Success Program Assistant positions may only be accessed through the formal application process.
Individuals hired as Associate Educators/School Success Program Assistants shall only work in the specific position for which they were hired, and shall not have access to any other AE/SSPA position at their school or site or any other school or site through bidding, transfer, or seniority system at any time. District wide programs with identical positions at multiple sites may assign individual AE’s/SSPA’s to various sites.
C.	COMPATIBILITY PERIOD: Educational Assistants who complete a voluntary transfer will be given a thirty (30) working day “compatibility period” in the position. Within twenty (20) working days, the supervisor in charge and the employee shall meet to assess whether or not the employee has met or is meeting the expectations. A two (2) week notice in writing will be given in the event that the employee or supervisor in charge requests reassignment. Such reassignment is subject to the approval of the Human Resources Department.
The parties may agree upon a fifteen (15) working day extension of the compatibility period. The compatibility period is not intended to replace or substitute for the progressive discipline process.
1.	If at any time during the thirty (30) working day compatibility period the incumbent requests to be reassigned, the applicant who is next in seniority to transfer shall be referred to the vacancy upon reassignment of the incumbent to a like or comparable position. If assigned to a position less than a like or comparable position, the excessing site or department shall assume responsibility for any difference in pay unless the incumbent voluntarily agrees to the reduced pay.
2.	The reassigned Educational Assistant shall have the following options:
a)	With the approval of the supervisor concerned, the Educational Assistant shall be placed on temporary assignment to the vacancy created by the action in 1 above until the position is filled through further posting.
b)	Accept intermittent status pending satisfactory permanent assignment.
c)	Return to the position from which the Educational Assistant transferred if the position has not been filled.
D.	PROMOTIONAL TRANSFER AND PROCESS: A promotional transfer is a change to a different classification at a higher salary range.
1.	All unit employees who meet the minimum eligibility requirements may apply for a posted position by submitting an application, letter of interest, current resume and transcripts to the Human Resources Department prior to the posting deadline.
2.	Promotional transfer procedures occur after concluding the voluntary transfer process
3.	Each applicant who is screened and selected as a candidate for a posted position will be granted an interview by the specific school/program/ department, and informed of the outcome of the interview process in writing.
4.	A selected candidate(s) will be hired to fill the specific position(s) for which they applied.
41
5.	Effects of promotional transfer on employee’s Seniority Status: Seniority to the new job title will begin on the effective date of transfer.
6.	Probationary Period for Promotions: Permanent Educational Assistants who obtain promotional transfers to new classifications must serve a probationary period of sixty-five (65) workdays to be certified to the new position. During the probationary period the supervisor shall conduct a minimum of one (1) performance counseling review of the employee’s performance. Should the supervisor decline to certify the employee in the new title such action is not grievable pursuant to Article XXII of the Agreement.
Employees who are not certified in the new classification may return to their former classification. If there are vacancies in the former classification that have cleared the bidding process, the District may place the employee in one of the available vacant positions. If there are no vacancies in the employee’s former classification, she/he will be excessed and placed on intermittent status until she/he exercises a voluntary transfer to a new assignment.
E.	ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFER: When it is deemed necessary to transfer an individual for administrative reasons, the supervisors affected will be apprised of the existing situation and the transfer made, subject to approval of the Human Resources Department. Administrative transfers are not subject to the compatibility period in Section C above.
1.	DISABILITY ACCOMODATIONS:	the District will confer with the union regarding the
issue of accommodation for employees that come under the guidelines of ADA, or current employees that have been injured while in the line of duty, and who have permanent restrictions and cannot return to their assigned positions.
2.	MODIFIED DUTY ASSIGNMENTS:
•	Any employee of the Board of Education who has work restrictions verified by a physician may be placed temporarily into vacancies which meet the restrictions determined by the physician or the employee's qualified rehabilitation counselor (QRC).
•	Employees assigned under the provisions of this article shall be paid the salary of the position into which they are detailed as defined in Article XI, Section C of the collective bargaining agreement. Eligible employees will receive worker's compensation benefits to meet the statutory requirements.
•	When an employee is determined fit for return to duty to the previously held classification, the employee will be placed permanently according to the provisions of the applicable collective bargaining agreement or civil service rules if the contract is silent.
F.	JOB STUDY AND RECLASSIFICATION:
1.	When a job is reclassified as a result of gradual change over a period of time in the kind, responsibilities or difficulty of the work performed in a position to a classification providing a higher maximum salary, no vacancy shall deem to have been created. Upon reclassification the incumbent employee may be appointed to the reclassification position, provided the incumbent is a permanent employee and worked in the existing position for a minimum of nine (9) months. If an employee is classified as an intermittent or detailed employee the position must be posted for promotional transfer for members of this bargaining unit before it can be filled through other procedures. The salary of the reclassified employee shall be as defined in Article XI. This provision does not apply to the classification of the Associate Educator.
42
2.	When a group of individuals in a classification is reclassified as a result of gradual changes over a period of time in the kind, responsibility, or difficulty of the work performed in a position to a classification providing a higher maximum salary, no vacancies shall be deemed to have been created. Upon reclassification, the incumbent employees shall be appointed to the reclassified positions if the incumbents have been in the existing positions for a minimum of nine (9) months as permanent employees provided that if any incumbents are classified as intermittent or detailed employees, the position(s) must be posted. The employee’s classification seniority date and anniversary date for step increases shall be determined by the date the completed job study request was submitted to Human Resources.
3.	If an individual employee is not included in a job study, to which they feel they should have been included, said employee may submit a written request to be included in the original job study. Said employee must submit verification that they met the qualifications of the upgrade at the time of the original job study. The employee’s classification seniority date and anniversary date for step increases shall be determined by the date the completed job study request for the group was submitted to Human Resources.
4.	In the event that an entire job classification is reclassified as a result of gradual changes over a period of time in the kind, responsibility, or difficulty of work performed to a classification providing a higher maximum salary, no vacancies shall be deemed to have been created. Upon reclassification, permanent incumbent employees shall be appointed to the reclassified positions. In the event that minimum requirements for the position change, incumbents on probation may be required to meet the new requirements within a period of time mutually agreed to by the District and the Union. Individual positions held by incumbents classified as intermittent or detailed employees must be posted. The salary of reclassified employees shall be as defined in Article XI. The classification seniority date for reclassified employees shall remain the same as that held prior to reclassification. The anniversary date for reclassified employees shall be set based on the date the completed job study request is submitted to Human Resources.
5.	If the reclassification is denied, the employee has the right to appeal the decision. The appeals committee will review the job study and make a final determination. If the decision is upheld, the employee must wait 18 months before requesting another job study. Another job study may be considered sooner if the supervisor can show a substantial change in the position since the last job study.
G.	JOB POSTINGS:
1.	Position postings will include a description of duties, hours, and qualifications and include a closing date to allow at least five (5) working days for voluntary transfer.
2.	Every effort shall be made to post positions before a temporary assignment is made.
3.	“Hard copies” of position postings shall be sent to the union designee.
4.	Individual position postings and a bidding/transfer schedule can be accessed by bargaining unit employees through the District web site at www.mpls.k12.mn.us.
ARTICLE XVI.	Summer School
A.	Summer school positions will be posted in all buildings where local 59 bargaining unit employees work.
43
B.	A certified Educational Assistant who is hired to work summer school in the same classification as assigned during the regular work year shall be paid at the same hourly rate of pay for that classification as they received for the regular work year. When assigned to work in a classification other then the classification to which assigned during the work year, the employee will be paid the rate of the classification to which assigned for summer school.
C.	The District pledges that it will give preference for summer school employment to permanent certified employees.
ARTICLE XVII.	Reduction in Force
A.	NOTIFICATION: When a reduction occurs within a classification at the site, the Human Resources Department shall inform the principal or site coordinator of the Educational Assistant(s) to be excessed by classification and seniority. Human Resources shall provide each site with a current seniority list for each classification no later than May 1st of each year.
Unless notified to the contrary by the principal or site coordinator prior to May 31st, the Educational Assistant’s status is unchanged. This notification shall be in writing with a copy to the employee and the Human Resources Department. This deadline does not apply to Special Education Assistants working as AAA’s with special education students, Childcare Workers, Assistant Childcare Workers, Child Care Assistants and Site Coordinators.
B.	REDUCTION IN FORCE OF ASSOCIATE EDUCATORS/SCHOOL SUCCESS PROGRAM ASSISTANTS: In the event that an Associate Educator/School Success Program Assistant position(s) is eliminated at any school/program/department, bumping rights do not apply. The displaced employee(s) has the following options:
•	Apply for other posted Associate Educator/School Success Program Assistant positions for which they meet the requirements by following the formal application process
•	Use their accumulated seniority and return to a previously held job classification or a position for which they meet the requirements by following the formal application process
•	Request a promotion for other posted positions within the Educational Assistant bargaining unit for which they meet the requirements.
C.	REDUCTION IN FORCE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION ADDITIONAL ADULT ASSISTANCE (“AAA”) ASSISTANTS: If the student or students served by a AAA position no longer needs individual service in the District the Special Education Assistant filling that AAA position may have their hours reduced or shall be excessed and is eligible of reassignment through the voluntary transfer process.
D.	REDUCTION IN FORCE OF ALL OTHER EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS: When a position is reduced in hours per week the following steps shall be taken:
1.	All temporary employees shall be terminated before a reduction in force can occur.
2.	A reduction in force exists at a site when a position is abolished or hours are reduced or a decrease in staff is required due to a reduction in the city-wide Educational Assistant allotment.
3.	The excessed Educational Assistant is the person with the least seniority in the classification assigned to the school, department or Special Education program where the surplus exists.
4.	When a reduction in force occurs, the least senior Educational Assistant is excessed. The excessing continues from the next least senior until the work force is reduced. All certified Educational Assistants are listed by seniority within classification regardless of hours.
44
5.
When a position is reduced in hours per week the following steps shall be taken:
a.	the incumbent is offered the option of retaining the position.
b.	if the incumbent declines the reduced position the Educational Assistant is considered excessed and the rules governing excessed Educational Assistant(s) apply.
c.	a position which results from excessing, shall be filled according to the rules for filling a new position.
E.	RESTORATION OF HOURS:
1.	An Educational Assistant who has had her/his hours reduced shall have her/his hours restored by order of seniority within a building department or program before any new Educational Assistant is employed.
2.	An Educational Assistant shall be eligible for restoration of hours for a period of thirty-six (36) months from the date of the original reduction in hours.
F.	OPTIONS FOR PLACEMENT OF EXCESSED EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS:
1.	Bidding. After a mutually determined date each year, positions which become vacant will be held for the bidding session. Any employee interested in voluntary transfer may participate in the bidding session along with employees on the excess list.
At the bidding, the excessed employee including those on lay off, or on intermittent status and the employees applying for voluntary transfer shall be offered their choice of vacancies in seniority order.
The excessed employees and the employees applying for voluntary transfer will be notified in writing ten (10) business days prior to the bidding session of the vacancies and the time and place of the first bidding. If the employee is already on lay off, notice is to be mailed to the employee’s last known address.
Excessed employees at a second bidding shall fill vacancies that were not filled at the first bidding and vacancies that resulted from transfers at the first bidding.
Vacancies existing after all the transfer procedures in Article XV have been completed shall be filled according to the rules for filling new positions.
2.	Bumping. Excessed employees who remain unassigned after the bidding process shall choose one of the following options:
a.	If no vacancy exists, the excessed employee may “bump” the least senior employee in the person’s classification with like employment status or closest to the number of hours the employee held the previous year. If there is no position of like or similar status the employee retains the right to bump the least senior employee in their classification or in a previously held classification. The bumping shall be implemented during a time period mutually agreed upon by the District and the union. For purposes of bumping within classification, seniority is based on the employees’ time in that classification.
45
b,	Voluntarily demote with full seniority to an existing vacancy in a lower classification or previously held classification for which the employee meets the minimum requirements. The employee’s salary shall be adjusted as per Article XI, Section C of this Agreement. The demoted employee will be placed on a layoff list for the classification from which demoted.
c.	Subsequent to the bumping, bidding, and voluntary demotion process affected employees shall be placed on layoff.
d.	Employee may choose, after discussion with the Human Resources Department, to go on Intermittent Status per Section G, below, pending satisfactory permanent assignment.
e.	LAYOFF/RECALL:
Whenever any permanent position is to be abolished or it becomes necessary because of lack of funds, lack of work, or reorganization, to reduce the number of employees, in a specific job classification(s),a layoff shall occur. Subsequent to the bidding, bumping, and demotion process, employees for whom there is no remaining position due to a reduction in force, shall be declared laid off from the classification or job title they are currently working in, with the least senior laid off first, and shall hold recall rights for thirty-six (36) months from the effective date of layoff for recall to a position in the same classification
Subsequent to posting and bidding^ employees on layoff shall be recalled by the District to positions which become available in the appropriate classification. Employees will be recalled in seniority order, with the person with the most seniority being recalled first. In no case shall any new Educational Assistant be hired from outside the district into a classification which has current employees on a layoff/recall list.
An employee on layoff who has been offered and has accepted the offer for an assignment of comparable hours to their previous assignment shall be considered recalled.
An employee on layoff who has been offered and has refused the offer of a position that is not of comparable hours, or is in a different job classification, or would result in a demotion, will not forfeit further recall rights, and will remain on the recall list.
In no case shall an employee on layoff, who was eligible for health, dental or other employee benefits prior to layoff, be required to accept an offer of recall to a position which does not meet the hourly assignment threshold for access to previously available benefits. However, an employee on layoff who is offered and has refused the offer for an assignment of comparable hours within classification worked in prior to layoff, shall forfeit any and all rights to recall.
Every employee is obligated to provide the Human Resource Department his/her address and phone number so that he /she can be contacted for possible assignment.
G.	INTERMITTENT STATUS
1.	Permanent Positions: An Intermittent employee must seek a permanent position by doing the following:
46
•	Said employee must bid on vacancies of like status as they are posted in order to secure a new position. The postings will be mailed to the employee's home address. It is the employee's responsibility to make sure Human Resources has employee's current home address and phone number.
•	Said employee must first attempt to secure a permanent position through the bidding process rather than through bumping.
•	If said employee is offered and refuses a permanent position of like status, he/she will be laid off and placed on the recall list.
2.	Temporary Assignments: Intermittent employees will have priority for placement before temporary employees. They shall have the right to, if qualified, displace a temporary employee if there are no vacant temporary positions and a temporary employee has been in an assignment for two (2) weeks or less. However, those employees hired outside of the Human Resources hiring process may be displaced at any time. Intermittent employees must accept temporary assignments while on intermittent status.
While on intermittent status, employees must accept temporary assignments by doing the following:
•	Said employee must stay in contact with the Reserve Staffing Assignment Specialist in Human Resources regarding temporary assignments until she/he accepts a permanent position.
•	Said employee is not guaranteed to receive an assignment or to have an assignment in any particular geographic area.
•	Said employee must accept assignments that are offered. Failure to do so may result in her/his placement on the recall list and he/she may not be called for further temporary assignments.
Once said employee has accepted a temporary assignment, she/he is expected to stay in it as long as it is available or until she/he has secured a permanent position. If said employee is unable to report to work at her/his temporary assignment, she/he must contact the site directly.
An intermittent employee will retain seniority, classification, and benefits for the month as long as he/she is actively working.
H.	FRESH START: If, despite improvement and intervention efforts student performance fails to improve within a reasonable time frame, more drastic measures may be required such as closing the school and starting over with a fresh start. When a new school is opened to replace the closed school, whether or not it is located in the same physical plant, it should be designed around a research-based academic improvement plan shaped by stake holders, including the union and a new administrative team.
When a school is determined to be “fresh started”, all the employees of this bargaining unit at that site shall be considered surpluses. The “fresh start” shall fill these positions based on interviews with the ability to select any of these candidates. The “fresh start” site positions will not be considered part of the bumping provisions of this contract. The exemption from the bumping process of this provision applies only during the first year of the “fresh start” and, upon implementation, these provisions will be reviewed annually by the District and the Union.
47
Informational meetings will be held to insure that Educational Assistants will receive information to make an informed decision about whether or not they wish to apply based on their training and/or experience with the new model. Those not selected by the new school will have transfer rights to other schools as excessed Educational Assistants.
The Human Resources Department will post a list of vacancies for interviews. Educational Assistants shall interview with the principal/supervisor, designee and/or site team.
All Educational Assistants on active duty or on leaves of absence are eligible to interview.
Educational Assistants who apply for and are selected for vacancies in a “fresh start” program and/or site are required to participate in in-service planning and training sessions.
I.	CLOSING OF SCHOOLS:
1.	When a school is closed, all Educational Assistants assigned to that school are declared excessed.
2.	Such Educational Assistants have the rights provided in this Article, Reduction in Force.
J.	MERGER OF SCHOOLS:
1.	When schools or programs are merged, the number of available positions in the merged school or program shall be determined by the Human Resources Department.
2.	Educational Assistants who were assigned to the merged schools or programs shall be assigned in order of seniority.
3.	Unassigned Educational Assistants are excessed pursuant to this Article, Reduction in Force.
K.	MULTIPLE PROGRAMS WITHIN ONE BUILDING:
1.	When several programs are housed at the same school or site and when each program has a principal or supervisor, such as the Andersen and Wilder Complexes, seniority shall be earned and exercised separately for each school or program within the complex.
2.	For the purposes of excessing, Educational Assistants who are assigned to duties in more than one school shall be considered assigned to the school where he/she spends the majority of the time.
3.	For the purposes of excessing, Educational Assistants who are assigned to duties in more than one school with equal hours assigned in each school, the Educational Assistant shall select a school to be considered the main assignment prior to the school year.
L.	RELOCATION OF PROGRAMS: When a program is relocated intact to another site, the Educational Assistants assigned to that program shall remain assigned to that program.
M.	MINNEAPOLIS KIDS PROGRAM:
1	. This provision applies only to the Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinator and Child Care Assistant in the Minneapolis KIDS Program. All positions in the Minneapolis Kids Program are school year positions. Summer positions shall be filled according to the provisions of this article.
48
2	Filling Positions. School year Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinator and Child Care Assistant positions shall be filled according to the provisions of Article XIV, Seniority. Summer program positions shall be bid in seniority order each year prior to the start of the summer program.
a.	Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinators and Child Care Assistants shall be ranked in seniority order within each classification.
b.	Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinators unassigned at the conclusion of the bidding shall be ranked in seniority order with the Child Care Assistants.
c.	Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinators and Child Care Assistants shall bid on Child Care Assistants positions in seniority order.
d.	Should a Child Care Assistant position become available subsequent to the bidding, unassigned Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinators and Child Care Assistants shall be offered the position in seniority order. If the position which becomes available is a Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinator position, the position shall be offered in seniority order to the unassigned Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinators.
N.	EARLY CHILDHOOD FAMILY EDUCATION:
1.	This provision applies only to the Educational Assistant positions in the Early Childhood Family Education (ECFE) program.
2.	All ECFE EA staff shall be hired for a minimum of twenty (20) hours/week assignments. Scheduling of work assignments in this non-traditional program may require scheduling of staff to provide instruction in blocks of time based on programmatic needs, including mornings, afternoons, evenings and occasional weekends. ECFE administration shall establish the schedule for each EA each semester.
3.	Each EA will have a basic assignment no less than twenty (20) and no more than twenty-three (23) hours per week. If a reduction in force is needed, the least senior person shall be laid off. The lay off shall be implemented at the end of a semester if a lay off is necessary.
4.	When it is necessary to add hours for a semester the hours will be offered in seniority order by program team at work sites, then on a District wide basis and finally if no eligible bidder bids on the additional hours the hours will be filled for the semester by a certified EA reserve. Hours that are added are not considered part of the employee's base assignment which remains a constant twenty (20) to twenty-three (23) hours.
5.	Overtime is paid based on a forty- (40) hour workweek.
6.	This article shall apply only to the EA in the ECFE program and shall not serve as a
precedent.
ARTICLE XVIII.	Special Education
1.	Special Education Programs: Positions identified by the Special Education Department as serving special needs students who spend 60% or more of their day in special programs will be known as Special Education Assistants. These positions will exist in the following programs:
49
Autism Spectrum Disorders, PALS, SIMS, CLASS, SPEN, SPAN, Setting IV and V EBD programs, ECSE, D/HH, MMMI, MSMI, PI, Hospital Agencies, Lifeskills, and Transition Plus
2.	SEA Transfer: Special Education Assistants who voluntarily transfer into a citywide Special Education classroom or program shall not be considered as part of the building staff seniority roster. However, these employees retain their initial seniority date per Article XIV, Seniority.
3.	Additional Adult Assistance Assistant (AAA): AAA positions serving special needs students shall be designated as such when posted. If the student is transferred to another school within the District the Educational Assistant may transfer with the student. If the student/students no longer needs individual service in the District, the Special Education Assistant is excessed pursuant to Article XVII, Section C.
If the AAA position remains vacant after it is posted the principal has the option of filling the position temporarily while waiting for referrals for certified Special Education Assistants from the Human Resources Department or may offer the hours by seniority to Special Education Assistants at the work site. If the hours are distributed to the Special Education Assistant at the work site the additional hours are not considered as part of the Special Education Assistant's permanent assignment of hours.
4.	The District and the Union wish to stabilize sites for the beginning of the school year and provide quality support services to students in special education:
•	SEA and AAA positions will not be posted after the July Bidding; and,
•	Vacant positions may be offered internally to SEAs by selection; and,
•	Vacant building positions within the site may be offered internally to AAAs from Citywide Program positions and vice versa; and,
•	SEA/AAA positions will be filled by candidates in the new hire pool if not filled internally; and,
•	In case of the need for staff adjustment and reassignment, with prior notification to the Union, administrative transfers may be utilized to move staff pursuant to Article XV, Section E.
5.	Training Required for New Special Education Program Assignment: Employees who transfer to a new special education program will be expected to meet the program’s training requirements within one year.
ARTICLE XIX.	No Child Left Behind / Elementary and Secondary Education Act
The District and the Union jointly reached agreement in the 2003-2005 contract negotiations on several issues related to implementation of this Federal legislation. The agreements are included in Memorandum of Agreements attached to this contract in Appendix A.
ARTICLE XX.	Severance Pay Plan
Upon separation from employment at any age after thirty (30) years of service or after twenty (20) years of service or age 60, an employee may be eligible for severance pay. Severance pay shall be dispersed in a lump sum payment directly to the Educational Assistant. The Educational Assistant may elect to have all or part of the payment placed into the Educational Assistant's account with the State of Minnesota Deferred Compensation Plan, consistent with the requirements of the plan and the Internal
50
Revenue Service Regulations. The balance, if any, will be paid directly to the Educational Assistant. The Educational Assistant, not the District, is solely responsible for determining the maximum allowable annual contribution amount to deferred compensation.
Effective July 1, 2003, the District waives the three hundred (300) hour sick leave accrual minimum eligibility requirement. At the time of retirement, the retiring employee shall receive a payment equal to one-half of the regular hourly rate of pay at retirement times the number of unused hours of sick leave accrued up to a maximum of sixteen hundred (1600) hours.
Entire Section moved to Article IX, Section 2d.
ARTICLE XXI.	Personal Injury/Property Benefits
A.	Reimbursement Resulting from Assault: The District shall reimburse employees of this bargaining unit for the cost of replacement or repair of personal property damaged or destroyed as a result of student assault or aggressive behavior that occurs while the employee is engaging in the performance of employee's duties. The maximum reimbursement is $250 per incident based on receipts and/or a police report number.
B.	Reimbursement Damage to Vehicle: The District shall reimburse employees for the cost of reimbursement for loss, damage or destruction of personal motor vehicles on school property or while an employee is in the performance of school business as verified by the principal or supervisor and police report. In the case of motor vehicles, reimbursement shall not include personal property that is stolen or damaged unless the theft accompanies a personal assault upon the employee. Reimbursement shall not exceed $500 per incident (including personal property, if eligible) The employee must submit receipts and a police report number or an incident report number to receive reimbursement.
C.	Personal Injury: If employees are injured as the result of a student assault while engaged in the performance of the employee's duties, the District shall reimburse the employee for necessary medical, dental, hospital and surgical expenses in excess of those expenses covered by the District insurance and/or worker's compensation.
A reasonable loss of time resulting from an assault on an employee by a student, parent or other individual that occurs while an employee is engaging in the performance of the employee's duties shall not be deducted from unused sick leave provided the employee has filed the District's assault form and/or police report.
D.	Basis of Payment: Any reimbursement made under this Article is a gratuitous payment and does not indicate that the District has accepted liability for the incident.
E.	Use of Personal Vehicle for District Business: The District shall carry an umbrella insurance policy that will supplement employee’s automobile insurance coverage to bring the total coverage per accident to not less than $1,000,000 for any accidents that occur while an employee is using his/her personal vehicle for District business.
The District shall reimburse employees for out-of-pocket costs incurred as a result of any accidents that occur while an employee is using his/her personal vehicle for District business. The reimbursement-eligible expenses will include, but will not be limited to: deductibles, insurance premium increases directly related to the accident, and damage to personal property. The District will handle reimbursement claims on a case-by-case basis. The total reimbursement shall not exceed $5,000. The employee must submit receipts and a police report number or an incident report number to receive reimbursement.
51
The District will not be responsible for any reimbursements under this section at the time of the accident if (1) an employee is uninsured, (2) investigation establishes an employee is intoxicated/abusing chemical substances, or (3) an employee is convicted of a gross misdemeanor or greater offense as a result of the accident.
ARTICLE XXII.	No Strike
It is agreed and understood that there will be no strike, work stoppage, slow down, or refusal or failure to fully and faithfully perform job functions and responsibilities or other interference with the operations of the District by the Union or by its officers, agents or members during the term of this Agreement including any extension of this Agreement, including compliance with the request of other labor organizations to engage in such activity.
ARTICLE XXIII.	Grievance Procedure
The Board of Education and the Union desire that each employee have a means by which grievances may be given timely, fair and continued consideration until resolved.
A grievance shall be defined as any controversy arising over the interpretation of or adherence to the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
DEFINITIONS:
•	Grievance means a dispute or disagreement as to the interpretation of any term or terms of this Agreement.
•	Grievant means an individual employee or the exclusive representative.
•	Days means work days excluding Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays as defined by Minnesota law or other recess periods during the grievant's work year.
•	Service means personal service or by certified mail.
•	Reduced to writing means a concise statement outlining the nature of the grievance, the specific provision(s) of the Agreement in dispute and the relief requested.
•	Answer means a concise response outlining the employer's position on the grievance.
•	Employer's Representative means the Manager of Employee Relations, or designee, or
other person designated by the Superintendent of Schools.
Step 1. The employee will informally discuss the grievance with her/his principal or immediate supervisor.
Step 2.
a	. If the grievance is not resolved at the time of the Step I informal discussion, it shall be reduced to writing and submitted to the principal or supervisor with a copy to the Employee Relations Department. The written grievance shall set forth the nature of the grievance, the specific facts giving rise to the grievance, the specific provisions of this Agreement allegedly violated, and the specific remedy sought. The written grievance must be submitted within twenty (20) working days after the event-giving rise to the grievance.
b	. Within five (5) workdays after submission of the written grievance, the principal or supervisor shall answer the grievance in writing with a copy of the answer to the
52
Employee Relations Department. If the written answer is not accepted, the grievant or the grievant's representative may request a meeting to consider the grievance. This meeting shall be scheduled among representatives of the Board of Education and the grievant or the grievant's representative within five (5) days of the date of the request for such a meeting.
c	. Within ten (10) workdays following the Step 2 meeting, the Board of Education shall submit a written reply to the grievant or the grievant's representative. If the Board of Education fails to reply in writing, the grievant or the grievant's representative may request arbitration in accordance with Step 3 of this procedure.
Step 3. If the grievance is not resolved in Step 2, the grievant or the grievant's representative may refer the matter to arbitration. Any request for arbitration shall be in writing and must be received by the other party within ten (10) workdays following receipt by the Union of the Board of Education's written reply to the grievance.
The Board of Education and the grievant or the grievant's representative may select a mutually acceptable arbitrator. If not able to do so, the grievant or the grievant's representative may request a list of five (5) names of qualified arbitrators from the Bureau of Mediation Services, State of Minnesota. The Board of Education and the grievant or the grievant's representative shall determine who is to strike the first name from the list by the toss of a coin. Each party will then alternately strike names until only one remains, who shall be the arbitrator who shall hear and decide the grievance. The arbitrator shall not have the power to modify in any form whatsoever any provision of this Agreement. Fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the Board of Education and the grievant or the grievant's representative.
The time limitations set forth herein relating to the time for filing a grievance and demand for arbitration shall be mandatory. Failure to follow said limitations shall result in the grievance being waived and it shall not be submitted to arbitration.
In the event the Board of Education does not reply to the grievance as required in Step 2, and the time limits contained therein are not extended by mutual consent, the grievance shall be referred to the next step. The time limitations provided herein may be extended by mutual written agreement of the Board of Education and the grievant and the grievant's representative.
Processing of all grievances shall be during the normal workday whenever possible, and employees shall not lose wages due to their necessary participation. For purposes of this paragraph, employees entitled to wages during their necessary participation in a grievance proceeding are as follows: 1) the number of employees equal to the number of persons participating in the grievance proceeding on behalf of the public employer; or 2) if the number of persons participating on behalf of the public employer is less than three, three employees may still participate in the proceedings without loss of wages.
ARTICLE XXIV.	Severability Clause
If any provision of this contract or any application of this contract to any member of the unit or group of members in the unit shall be found contrary to state or federal law, then this provision or application shall be deemed invalid, except to the extent permitted by law, but all other provisions hereof shall continue in full force and effect. The provision found to be contrary to state or the parties shall renegotiate federal law.
53
ARTICLE XXV.
Non-Discrimination
The provisions of this Agreement shall be applied equally to all employees in the bargaining unit without discrimination as to age, sex, marital status, race, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, physical disability, affectional orientation, or receipt of public assistance. The Employer agrees not to interfere with the rights of the employees to become members of the Union and there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion by the Employer or any Employer representative against any employee because of Union membership or because of any employee activity officially sanctioned by this contract on behalf of the Union.
ARTICLE XXVI.	Complete Agreement
A.	EFFECT: This Agreement constitutes the full and complete agreement between the Board of Education and the Union. The provisions herein relating to hours of employment, compensation and fringe benefits supersede any and all prior agreements between the Board of Education and the Union. It is expressly understood and agreed by the Board of Education and the Union that in the event of a conflict between any provision of this Agreement and any Civil Service rule or regulation, this Agreement shall prevail.
B.	FINALITY: Any matters relating to the current contract terms, whether or not referred to in this Agreement shall not be open for negotiation during the term of this Agreement except by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE XXVII.	Duration of Agreement
This Agreement shall be in force and effect for twenty-four months from the first day of July, 2003 and ending June 30, 2005, and shall continue in full force and effect thereafter, unless written notice of desire to change or modify the Agreement is served by either party upon the other party sixty (60) days prior to the 30th day of June, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this contract on this 28th_day of October 2003.
SPECIAL SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1
By
Chairperson of the Board of Education
By
Chairperson of the Board of Education Negotiating Committee
MINNEAPOLIS FEDERATION OF
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS, LOCAL 59
By
President
54
By
Business Representative/Negotiator
By
Chairperson of the Educational Assistants Negotiating Committee
55
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE MINNEAPOLIS FEDERATION OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANTS & SCHOOL RELATED PERSONNEL, LOCAL 59
AND
MP/S
MINNEAPOLIS
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
MINNEAPOLIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS
In order to meet the requirements of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB)ZEIementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) of 2002, the Minneapolis Public Schools, Special School District #1 (“District”) and the Minneapolis Federation of Educational Assistants & School Related Personnel, Local 59 (“Union”) have jointly reached the following agreements through the 2003-2005 collective bargaining process.
1.	The District and Union jointly agree that Educational Assistants in the district will have the option to meet the “highly qualified personnel standards” requirement of the ESEA/NCLB law by utilizing the third option in the law. This option states that employees can be considered highly qualified by successfully completing a formal state or local assessment in lieu of the college requirement. The District will accept and develop a process to implement the criteria for assessment that is established by the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Education, and the State Board of Teaching as referenced in Minnesota Statute 120B.363
2.	Effective July 1, 2003, and for the duration of this contract, the District and the Union jointly agree to establish, through a memorandum of agreement, a labor management ESEA committee to continue to discuss, consult, and recommend the process for the implementation of the requirements of the Federal legislation as it effects district policies, procedures, and employees.
3.	The District and the Union agree to work collaboratively with St. Mary’s college, and Native American Educational Services (NAES) college, and Minneapolis Community and Technical College (MCTC), to meet the employment requirements of the ESEA/NCLB law through college coursework, by allowing the use of professional development time and resources for officially registered students and other joint activities to be determined.
4.	For the 2003-2005 school years the District will establish and retain the bargaining unit position referenced in Article II, Section A as NCLB/ESEA Support to assist with the implementation, training, and data coordination necessary to ensure compliance with Federal legislation relating to training, education, and employment standards for positions funded through the use of ESEA Title 1 funds.
5.	The District agrees that bargaining unit employees hired after January 8, 2002 will have to meet the education and training standards required by ESEA/NCLB legislation prior to their initial placement and first day of active employment at a Minneapolis Public Schools site.
For the District:	For the Union:
By: __________________________________ ___________________________________________________
Its:	_______________________________ ___________________________________________________
Date: ________________________________ ___________________________________________________
56
ADDENDUM
The Board of Education of Special School District No. 1 and the Minneapolis Federation of Educational Assistants, Local 59, through their respective committees, have met and conferred on topics in addition to those topics contained in the collective bargaining Agreement between the parties.
The parties have agreed that the information contained in this addendum is placed here for the convenience of the employees and their supervisors.
1.	Positions covered by the Agreement between the Board of Education and Local 59 are generally described as follows:
•	AIDE TO THE PRINCIPAL: - (Effective 2002-03 school year/Job title transition/refer to “class options” under Associate Educator) Under supervision, perform duties of ordinary difficulty and complexity in school-community liaison work, and assist in the maintenance of student discipline in the school, on the grounds and at special/athletic events. Education/Requirements: Must have High School Diploma or GED equivalent; and demonstrated performance of standard written/spoken English and mathematics.
ASSOCIATE EDUCATOR: With minimal supervision, collaborates with licensed school personnel to support the District’s student achievement goals and discipline and behavior policies and assists teachers in accordance with The Standards of Effective Instructional Support for Educational Assistants. Independently implements a variety of student, family, community services and educational programs in support of District cultural diversity goals. Education/Requirements: 90 quarter or 60 semester credits and/or AA degree in the area of education, child development, child psychology, behavior science, or area related to job assignment; two (2) years experience working in the Minneapolis Schools, or comparable educational setting plus two (2) letters of recommendation, one (1) from a principal or program coordinator and one (1) from a current supervisor (teacher, colleague, etc.) with whom the applicant has worked; and pass an interview screening conducted by Educational Assistants, Teachers and Principals. “Class Options” - Behavior Resource, Bilingual, Community Resource, Interpreter for Hearing Impaired, Media Resource, PDP Mentor, NCLB/ESEA Support, Special Education Bilingual, Title 1 Computer Resource, Transportation Resource, and Truancy.
BILINGUAL PROGRAM ASSISTANT: With supervision, assist professional staff as an interpreter to facilitate the provision of health, education or other services to non-English speaking, limited English speaking and/or bilingual/bicultural community members as aligned with The Standards of Effective Instructional Support for Educational Assistants. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent plus 90 quarter or 60 semester college credits. Bilingual and bicultural with the ability to speak, read and write English and at least one other language (for example, Spanish or Hmong and one other Southeast Asian Language).
CERTIFIED OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY ASSISTANT: Under the supervision of the Registered Occupational Therapist (OTR) assist in carrying out treatment plans and assessments. The COTA will advance along a continuum from entry to high proficiency level based on experience, education and practical skills. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent and completion of a two (2) year Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant course; and one (1) year of full-time verifiable experience as a Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant. Must possess and maintain a valid Minnesota Driver’s License.
57
•	CERTIFIED PHYSICAL THERAPY ASSISTANT: Under the direction and supervision of the Registered Physical Therapist, performs physical therapy treatments/procedures and related tasks for/on students as indicated in the student’s Individual Educational Plan. The PTA will advance along a continuum from entry to high proficiency level based on experience, education, and practice skills. Education/Requirements: Physical Therapy Assistant Associate degree; good knowledge of therapeutic exercise and equipment; and previous experience working in a school or pediatric setting.
•	COMMUNITY SCHOOL COORDINATOR I AND II: Under supervision, to do work of more than ordinary difficulty and complexity in the development of a Community School Program at an elementary school that includes services for school age children and adults. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent. Must have considerable knowledge of the community in which the program will be functioning. Lane Change: To advance from a Community School Coordinator I to a Community School Coordinator II an employee shall have completed one (1) year of service and at least twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work during their employment with the Minneapolis Public Schools as a Community School Coordinator I.
•	EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANT I, II AND III: With supervision, assist licensed school personnel in a variety of school functions and locations aligned with The Standards of Effective Instructional Support for Educational Assistants. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent plus 90 quarter or 60 semester college credits. Lane Change: To advance from an Educational Assistant I to an Educational Assistant II an employee shall have completed one (1) year of service and at least twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work during their employment with the Minneapolis Public Schools as an Educational Assistant I. Lane Change: To Advance from an Educational Assistant II to an Educational Assistant III, in addition to the minimum qualifications required for Educational Assistant I and II, an Educational Assistant III shall have achieved an Educational Assistant II rating, completed a minimum of forty-eight (48) quarter credits of approved course work, and at least two years of job related experience in education.
Educational Assistant III transferring to other building or sites will retain the classification of Educational Assistant III.
•	FAMILY LEARNING ASSISTANT CHILD CARE WORKER I AND II - TAPP: Under the supervision of a Program Assistant or TAPP Coordinator, assists the Child Care Worker or Child Development Specialist in caring for the children of student parents. Education/Requirement: High school diploma or GED is preferred. Applicant must meet the requirements and responsibilities of “Assistant Teacher” as defined in DHS Rule 3. Must have knowledge of day care policies and procedures for children birth through school age. Ability to speak, read, and write English. Lane Change: To advance from an Assistant Child Care Worker I to an Assistant Child Care Worker II an employee shall have achieved both an Assistant Child Care Worker I rating and successfully completed at least twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work and has served at least one (1) full year as an Assistant Child Care worker in the Minneapolis Public Schools.
•	FAMILY LEARNING CHILDCARE HELPER - TAPP: Under the supervision of a Program Assistant or TAPP Coordinator, assists the Child Care Worker in caring for the children of student parents. Education/Requirements: High school diploma or GED equivalent is preferred. Must be eighteen (18) years of age; speak, read and write English; ability to work and communicate with the children and parents representing Minneapolis’ diverse cultures, socio-economic, and ethnic backgrounds; applicant must meet the requirements and responsibilities of “Aide” as defined in Department of Human Services Rule 3.
58
•	FAMILY LEARNING CHILD CARE WORKER-TAPP: Under the supervision of a Program Assistant or TAPP Coordinator, serves as the lead teacher (as defined in DHS Rule 3) supervising the children of student parents. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent; ability to speak, read and write English; and must meet the requirements and responsibilities of a Teacher as defined in DHS Rule 3. This requirement is the equivalent of a Bachelor’s degree including or supplemented by child development courses, coursework and work experience with children birth to five OR equivalent combination of training and experience.
•	HEALTH EDUCATOR II: Under direction, to do professional and administrative work of more than ordinary difficulty and complexity by directing health education programs. Education/Requirements: Must have appropriate four (4) year degree; knowledge of procedures and methods involved in establishing health education programs; knowledge of mass communication systems; knowledge of community resources and agencies; considerable knowledge of the programs and policies of the Minneapolis Health Department.
•	INDIAN HOME SCHOOL LIAISON I, II, III: Increase the educational success for all Native American students by facilitating and improving communication between the school and Native American parents, and assisting in solving problems which may exist or which may develop that relate to Native American students. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent; two years experience working with Native American youth or families in the Native American community; knowledge of Native American culture and heritage. Lane Change: To advance to an Indian Home School Liaison II, an employee shall have achieved both an Indian Home School Liaison I rating and successfully completed at least twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work during employment and has served at least one (1) full year as an Indian Home School Liaison I. Lane Change: To advance to an Indian Home School Liaison III, an employee shall have achieved both an Indian Home School Liaison II rating and successfully completed an additional twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work during employment and has served at least one (I) full year as an Indian Home School Liaison II.
•	INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNOLOGY ASSISTANT II: Coordinate the maintenance and inventory of instructional technology equipment; assist the Instructional Technology Assistant III to maintain, set up, and repair computers, printers, and software installation and/or computer hardware and software, and provide support to staff on its use. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent; minimum of one (1) year of experience in technology, duplication, support, maintenance, and circulation; ability to type 45 words per minute.
•	INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNOLOGY ASSISTANT III: Provide field support to schools in the installation, maintenance and/or operation of instructional technology and/or computer equipment. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent; and 30 quarter credits of education specifically in computer use, peripherals, software set-up and maintenance. Two (2) years experience or equivalent training, operating, maintaining/repairing instructional and/or computer equipment.
•	INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SPECIALIST: Responsible for all aspects of instructional data and network communications District-wide. Work both individually and in team environment to meet the instructional technology needs of staff and students in all District school sites. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent; and 45 credits of post high school education specifically in computer use, peripherals, software, set-up and maintenance or equivalent training; and three to four (3-4) years full
59
time experience operating, maintaining, and repairing instructional technology equipment or computer hardware wiring within a network environment.
•	MINNEAPOLIS KIDS CHILD CARE ASSISTANT I AND II: Under the general program supervision of the Site Coordinator, assists with program development and maintenance which may include all or some of the following: planned activities, supervising children, goal setting, environment and preparation, interest areas, sanitary and safety checks and procedures, parent communication and conferences, and program records. Education/Requirement: Graduation from a two year Child Development Training Course. Six months of full-time (or equivalent part-time) experience working with infants, and/or toddlers as a Child Care Aide in a day care center, plus completion of three accredited Child Development training courses (90 hours). Lane Change: To advance from a Child Care Assistant I to a Child Care Assistant II an employee must achieve a Child Care Assistant I rating, have successfully completed twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work, and have served at least one (1) full year as a Child Care Assistant in the Minneapolis Public Schools.
•	MINNEAPOLIS KIDS SITE COORDINATOR: The Site Coordinator is responsible to the Program Manager for the overall program operation at a childcare location before and after-school and on school release/vacation days. The Site Coordinator provides leadership for Assistant Child Care Workers, substitutes, as well as volunteers, at each location. Education/Requirements: Ability to meet Minnesota State Department of Welfare Center licensing requirements for “teachers.” This requirement is the equivalent of a Bachelor’s degree including or supplemented by child development courses coursework and work experience with school age children OR state certificate as an elementary or secondary teacher OR equivalent combination of training and experience.
•	PROGRAM AIDE I AND II (Effective 2002-03 school year/Job title transition/refer to “class options” under Associate Educator) Under general supervision, assist in public relations, promoting the school or program, coordinating and implementing school programs and community services. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent; one (1) year of experience in providing services to low income or disadvantaged groups, or one (1) year working in an educational environment. Lane Change: To advance from a Program Aide I to a Program Aide II an employee shall have completed one (1) full year as a Program Aide I and successfully completed at least twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work during employment with the Board of Education as a Program Aide I.
•	SCHOOL COMMUNITY LIAISON I, II, AND III: (Effective 2002-03 school year/Job title transition/refer to “class options” under Associate Educator) Under general supervision, perform duties of more than ordinary difficulty and complexity in assisting professional school social work and special education personnel. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent, with demonstrated performance in the areas of Math and standard written and spoken English; knowledge of community, county, school, and city agencies, and the role of the school in the community. Lane Change: To become a School Community Liaison Assistant II, an employee shall have achieved a School Community Liaison Assistant I rating, have successfully completed at least twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work during employment, and have served at least one (1) full year as a School Community Liaison Assistant I. Lane Change: To become a School Community Liaison Assistant III, an employee shall have achieved both a School Community Liaison Assistant II rating, have successfully completed an additional twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work during employment and have served at least one (I) full year as a School Community Liaison Assistant II.
60
•	SCHOOL SUCCESS PROGRAM ASSISTANT: Work directly and collaboratively with District service units, administrators, school site staff, parents and students, and community service providers to develop comprehensive and inclusive strategies that address the school success of students. Education/Requirements: Bachelor’s degree in Corrections, Child Psychology, Child Development, Education, Social Sciences or closely related area. An equivalent amount of course work may be considered.
•	SPECIAL EDUCATION ASSISTANT: With supervision, assist licensed Minneapolis Public School staff in the implementation of a comprehensive educational program for students, age 0 to 22 years old, who are in Special Education programs across multiple school and community environments as aligned with The Standards of Effective Instructional Support for Educational Assistants. Individuals will work in programs that serve students with autism, mental impairments, physical impairments, other health impairments and behavioral disorders as well as those who are deaf/hard of hearing, have visual impairments and in Early Childhood	Special Education programs.
Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent; plus 90 quarter or 60 semester college credits, with demonstrated performance of standard written and oral English, and mathematics. Attend a mandatory 60 hour core special education training offered by the District, and additional 20 hour training specific to the assigned program.
•	TRANSPORTATION RESOURCE ASSISTANT: (Effective 2002-03 school year/Job title transition/refer to “class options” under Associate Educator) Under supervision, assists in the safe and timely arrival of buses and establishes pick-up and drop-off stops for all students include LEP and Special Education students. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent; must be a current employee of the Minneapolis Public Schools; completed two (2) years of related post secondary education or at least two (2) full-time school years of verifiable related experience; and one (1) year experience working with students in an educational setting.
•	TRUANCY WORKER: (Effective 2002-03 school year/Job title transition/refer to “class options” under Associate Educator) Assist the school social work personnel in providing truancy services to students and their families. Education/Requirements: High School Diploma or GED equivalent; and one (1) year of college course work in Human Services or Social Services; Two (2) years full-time experience in social work service agency with youth or families, juvenile corrections or recreation.
61
AIDE TO THE PRINCIPAL (Effective 2002-03 school year) (Job title transition/refer to “class options” under Associate Educator)
JOB SUMMARY: Under supervision, perform duties of ordinary difficulty and complexity in schoolcommunity liaison work, and assist in the maintenance of student discipline in the school, on the grounds and at special/athletic events.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Assist the administrator and faculty in understanding the problems, outlook and background of at risk students and communicate and interpret community attitudes.
2.	Make home calls under the direction of the supervisor to provide and to obtain information regarding student absenteeism, behavior problems, progress, and home and school conditions.
3.	Answer any question parents or students might have or refers to proper source.
4.	Supervise student traffic within the building and groups on school grounds and at other special events as assigned.
5.	Assist students in getting to class and other appointments promptly, with as little disruption of others as possible.
6.	Assist administrator in recognizing situations which might lead to disruption; if a disruptive situation develops, assisting in bringing the situation under control.
7.	Attend, and participate in as required, faculty and/or community meetings.
8.	Prepare reports on assigned subjects, disruptions, or home visit findings.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	May be asked to testify before hearings or other legal bodies as required.
2.	Other duties as assigned/required.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	High School Diploma or GED equivalent; and demonstrated performance of standard written/spoken English and mathematics.
2.	Knowledge of school rules and procedures.
3.	Knowledge of conflict mediation and resolution techniques.
4.	Knowledge of the school community with some knowledge of the role of the school in the community.
5.	Some knowledge of human growth and development.
6.	Ability to relate to students with warmth and understanding.
7.	Ability to supervise a group of students.
8.	Ability to act decisively in case of student disruption.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements: School environment; capacity to physically control a middle or high school aged student in disruptive situations.
62
ASSOCIATE EDUCATOR
POSITION SUMMARY: With minimal supervision, collaborates with licensed school personnel to support the District’s student achievement goals and discipline and behavior policies and assists teachers in accordance with The Standards of Effective Instructional Support for Educational Assistants. Independently implements a variety of student, family, community services and educational programs in support of District cultural diversity goals.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Required:
1.	Completed 90 quarter or 60 semester college credits, and/or AA degree in the area of Education, Child Development, Child Psychology, Behavioral Sciences; or area related to position assignment.
2.	Two (2) years experience working in the Minneapolis Schools or comparable educational setting.
3.	Ability to effectively meet school, student, and program needs as demonstrated by:
*	One letter of recommendation from a principal or program coordinator AND
*	One letter from a current supervisor (teacher, coordinator, etc); or recommendation from a colleague with whom the applicant has worked.
*	Passing an interview screening conducted by Educational Assistants, teachers, and principals.
4.	Attend mandatory Crisis Prevention Intervention (CPI) and Documentation trainings within one year of being hired for the position and maintain a current expiration date on the CPI card by taking a refresher class annually.
Desirable:
1.	Knowledge of related educational programs and the school community.
2.	Training and experience in the use of computers and other technology equipment.
3.	Ability to work effectively in collaboration with others.
4.	Ability to act in a leadership role and independently initiate and follow through on tasks under minimal supervision.
5.	Strong organizational skills.
6.	Demonstrate oral and written communication skills in working with students, families, and community representatives and in collaborating with school personnel.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Essential:
1.	Implement and maintain school programs and student services in some or all of the following areas: transportation, curriculum development and implementation, computer learning, media/technology assistant to staff and students, extended week or year activities, job training, mentoring colleagues, or other programs.
2.	Act as a liaison between the students, family, community, and the school.
3.	Participate in, provide information to, and/or facilitate staff team meetings related to school programs and student services.
4.	Act as a resource to provide knowledge of services and program objectives to staff, departments, and the community.
5.	Involved in planning, coordinating, and developing school programs and student services.
6.	Conduct evaluations and provide information related to program assessment used to measure program effectiveness.
7.	Use technology skills to organize and deliver school programs and student services.
8.	Meets District’s standards for employee performance and attendance.
63
Additional:
1.	Participate in staff development/professional growth activities relevant to position, responsibilities and School Improvement Plan (SIP) and Professional Development Plan (PDP).
2.	Perform related duties as assigned/requested.
The Following are “Class Options” under Associate Educator
Behavior Resource: Assist in maintaining student discipline in the school, on the grounds, and at specific special events. Assist administration in communicating with and understanding students at risk. Maintain student behavior thru intervention and parent contact.
Bilingual: Assist licensed staff as an interpreter to facilitate the provision of health, education, or other services to non-English speaking, limited English speaking and/or bilingual/bicultural community members.
Community Resource: Assist in promoting the school or program by providing information to parents, visitors, and students. Coordinate and implement school programs, act as a liaison between students, parents, and community services.
Interpreter for Hearing Impaired: Provide sign language interpreting/transliterating services for deaf/hard of hearing students and assist licensed school personnel in a variety of school functions and locations as aligned with The Standards of Effective Instruction for Educational Assistants.
Media Resource: Perform a variety of duties assisting licensed personnel in the Media Center. Assist in preparing instructional, informational and referral material. Provide prescribed instructional strategies with individuals or small groups of students. Support teachers with technology needs in the classroom.
Professional Development Process (PDP) Mentor: Coordinate the development and implementation of the EASRP mentoring process and provide professional development support for District EASRP.
No Child Left Behind/Elementary and Secondary Education Act (NCLB./ESEA) Support: Assist with the implementation, training, and data coordination necessary to ensure compliance with Federal legislation relating to training, education, and employment standards for positions funded through the use of ESEA Title I funds.
Special Education Bilingual: Interpret and translate all information relating to the educational programming for students who have both Special Education and English Language Learner needs. Requires oral and written fluency in English and a second language and bicultural background. Work in conjunction with Special Education and regular education teachers.
Title 1 Computer Resource: Provide support to licensed personnel in the computer lab. Assist with training students on computer programs.
Transportation Resource: Establish and provide transportation needs related to students. Works with administration on establishing and enforcing discipline procedures relating to behavior on buses.
Communicates with the Transportation Department, administration, and parents on transportation concerns.
Truancy: Assist licensed personnel in implementing attendance and truancy procedures. Provide support to students with attendance issues through home visits, parent contact, group counseling, team meetings and community agencies.
Physical Requirements/Working Conditions:
School environment; may involve lifting up to 40 pounds, and the ability to sit, walk, and/or stand for extended periods of time, both indoors and outdoors.
64
Bilingual Program Aide
With supervision, assist professional staff as an interpreter to facilitate the provision of health, education or other services to non-English speaking, limited English speaking and/or bilingual/bicultural community members as aligned with The Standards of Effective Instructional Support for Educational Assistants.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Required:
1.	High school diploma or GED plus 90 quarter or 60 semester college credits.
2.	Demonstrate the ability to speak, read, write and translate English and at least one other language (for example, Somali, Spanish, or Hmong and one other Southeast Asian Language.
3.	Educational background to be able to assist site staff in the provision of health, education or other services to non-English speaking clients.
4.	Knowledge of, and experience with, cultural differences, which may affect non-English speaking students and their parents and the process of acculturation to American society.
5.	Knowledge of the program in which the position exits.
6.	The ability to communicate effectively and sensitively with non-English speaking students and their families, especially with related program needs.
Desirable:
1.	Technical training or certification in bilingual interpretation.
2.	Post-secondary coursework in education, child development or a related area.
3.	Knowledge of the programs and procedures of the Minneapolis Public Schools.
4.	Computer experience to assist in collaboration with families, schools, and/or community.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Essential:
1.	Interpret the required language and culture for school personnel in a variety of situations including home, community and school-based screening activities with young children and students and in various education assessments, arranging and conducting interviews, home visits and conferences with parents; interpret the English language and culture for non-English speaking children, students, and parents during these activities; provide interpreting services in the classroom and other educational settings as needed.
2.	Assist site staff in delivering educational programs/services to students and in facilitating the integration of students and classes.
3.	Screen individuals seeking health or educational service to help determine need for support services such as transportation, social services, additional interpreter services, referral to other community agencies, etc.
4.	Assist families in accessing, obtaining and implementing educational activities, medical and other community services.
5.	Assist in the development and translation of materials for students, staff and families.
6.	Provide culturally relevant information to staff to assist in providing District services to students and families.
7.	Meet District’s standards for employee performance in attendance.
8.	Participate in staff development/professional growth activities relevant to position responsibilities, School Improvement Plan (SIP), and Professional Development Plan (PDP).
9.	Meets District’s standards for employee performance and attendance.
Additional:
1.	Provide documentation/reports of work activities as requested.
2.	Perform related duties as assigned/requested.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements:
Normal classroom environment; ability to manage student behavior with the physical capacity to work directly with and supervise students.	Revised 3/11/2002
65
CERTIFIED OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST ASSISTANT
JOB SUMMARY: Assist the Occupational Therapist in carrying out treatment plans and assessments.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Uses tests to determine student’s level of functioning and eligibility for therapy services.
2.	Provides input describing abilities/needs in order to facilitate program planning.
3.	Provides treatment for students qualifying for therapy services.
4.	Maintains appropriate student records of services provided.
5.	Cleans and maintains work area and equipment.
6.	Constructs/adapts equipment used by therapist or students.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	Performs other related duties as assigned.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	High School Diploma or GED and completion of a two (2) year Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant course.
2.	One (1) year of full-time verifiable experience as a Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant.
3.	Possess and maintain a valid Minnesota Driver’s License.
4.	Knowledge of the developmental sequences for children.
5.	Knowledge of the appropriate therapy modalities used in treatment and adaptive equipment.
6.	Knowledge of basic anatomy.
7.	Knowledge of Special Education Due Process procedures.
8.	The ability to work with students, staff and parents in a variety of environments.
9.	Ability to lift students weighing approximately 50 lbs.
10.	Ability to use hand/power tools.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements: Normal with some fieldwork.
66
CERTIFIED PHYSICAL THERAPIST ASSISTANT
JOB SUMMARY: Under the direction and supervision of the Registered Physical Therapist, perform physical therapy treatments/procedures and related tasks for/on students as indicated in the student’s Individual Educational Plan. The PTA will advance along a continuum from entry to high proficiency level based on experience, education, and practice skills.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Assist the RPT in observing and screening students with physical and motor disabilities.
2.	Provide physical therapy treatments for students as designated on the IEP under the management of the RPT.
3.	Assist the RPT in maintaining student files including recording, charting or graphing data relative to the student’s progress.
4.	Assist the RPT in maintaining safety and cleanliness of therapy space and equipment.
5.	Learn and adhere to the established policies and procedures of the District and the Special Education department.
6.	Learn and adhere to the ethical standards of the profession, and seek to continue professional development.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1. Other duties as assigned/required.
EDUCATION, SKILLS, AND EXPERIENCE:
1.	Graduate of a Physical Therapy Assistant Associate Degree program, accredited by an agency recognized by the Minnesota Department of Education or the Council on Post Secondary Accreditation.
2.	Good knowledge of therapeutic exercise and equipment.
3.	Previous experience working in a school or pediatric setting.
4.	Good organizational, verbal and written communication skills.
5.	Experience in adapting the intervention environment, tools, materials and therapeutic activities.
6.	Ability to travel between school assignments, as the therapy/schedule requires.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements: School setting. Ability to lift up to 50 pounds, ability to transfer students; ability to crouch, stoop and bend.
1.	Assist in observing and screening students with physical/motor disabilities.
2.	Provide quality therapy treatment based on current professional knowledge and management interventions for students and/or groups based on the Individual Educational Plan (IEP/IFSP) goals and objectives.
3.	Assist in maintaining student files, including recording, charting or graphing data relative to the student’s progress.
4.	Maintain and document intervention procedures and results, using the appropriate forms, records, and reports.
5.	Maintain treatment area, equipment, and supply inventory.
6.	Adapt intervention environment, tools, materials, and activities according to the needs of the student under the supervision of the therapist.
7.	Monitor own performance, and identify needed level of supervision in collaboration with the therapist.
8.	Learn and adhere to ethical standards of the profession, while functioning according to the APTA Standards of Ethical Conduct for the PTA.
9.	Communicate and interact with other team members, family, or caregivers in collaboration with the therapist.
10.	Assist in maintaining safety and cleanliness of therapy space and equipment.
11.	Learn and adhere to established policies/procedures of the District and Special Education department.
12.	Identify and pursue own professional growth and development, under the Professional Development Plan.
13.	Participate in professional and school activities.
67
COMMUNITY SCHOOL COORDINATOR I
JOB SUMMARY: Under supervision, perform work of more than ordinary difficulty and complexity in the development of a Community School Program at an elementary school that includes services for school age children and adults.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Develop and maintain an effective community school advisory council at a small elementary school; divides community council into effective committees for registration, leadership and publicity.
2.	Plan and direct a program that will meets the needs of that community, including activities for children and adults.
3.	Conduct a community survey to determine the needs and interests of the community.
4.	Develop and maintain a good working relationship with the school staff, the children, and families living within the geographical school area.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1. Perform other related tasks as requested/required.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	Considerable knowledge of the community in which the program will be functioning.
2.	Some knowledge of school rules and procedures.
3.	Some knowledge of outside agencies and area organizations which can help in the development of community programs.
4.	Some knowledge of principles of administration and supervision.
5.	Ability to organize and oversee an effective community council.
6.	Ability to develop effective ongoing programs which serve children and adults and community groups.
7.	Ability to supervise building facilities and staff necessary to carry out programs in the school.
8.	Ability to use independent judgment and initiative in implementing the programs and carrying out the duties of this position.
Working Conditions: School environment.
COMMUNITY SCHOOL COORDINATOR II
Lane Change: One (1) year of service and 24 quarter credits, refer to page 58 in the Addendum.
68
Educational Assistant I
With supervision, assist licensed school personnel in a variety of school functions and locations aligned with The Standards of Effective Instructional Support for Educational Assistants.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Required:
1.	Minimum of a High School Diploma or GED equivalent; plus 90 quarter or 60 semester college credits.
2.	Demonstrates performance of standard English (written and/or oral) and Mathematics.
3.	Attends mandatory Crisis Prevention Intervention (CPI) trainings within one year of being hired for the position and maintain a current expiration date on the CPI card by taking annual refresher classes.
Desirable:
1.	Training and experience in the use of computers and other technology equipment related to the position, Mac and/or PC based systems.
2.	Knowledge of related educational programs and the school community.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Essential:
1.	Establishes positive relationships with students and acts as a role model for appropriate social skills and behavior in all situations.
2.	Assists staff in the management of student behavior by applying proactive strategies when dealing with students’ behaviors. Implements District approved techniques for verbal deescalation, personal safety, and safe physical restraints. Assumes safety responsibilities for students in all environments.
3.	Collaborates and works cooperatively, as a team member, with colleagues, staff, and community representatives.
4.	Follows written and oral instructions, and independently follows through on teacher directed programming/strategies.
5.	Supports the District’s position of valuing diversity and promoting respect.
6.	Maintains professional District Educational Assistant competencies by attending mandatory inservices and workshops, and in self-selected professional growth activities as related to the individual Professional Development Plan (PDP).
7.	Assumes safety responsibilities for students when providing community-based instruction and vocational training, i.e. field trips.
8.	Performs prescribed instructional strategies with individuals and/or small groups, which accommodate differences in developmental levels and learning styles.
9.	Documents student progress or behavior.
10.	Supervises and monitors groups of students; and maintains discipline and order in halls, lunchrooms, buses, playgrounds, classrooms, and/or other social settings.
11.	Assists licensed staff in preparing instructional, informational and referral materials as requested.
12.	Meets District’s standards for employee performance and attendance.
Additional:
1. Performs other related duties as assigned.
69
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANT II
Lane Change: One (1) year of service and 24 quarter credits, refer to page Error! Bookmark not defined, in the Addendum.
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANT III
Lane Change: In addition to the minimum qualifications required for the Educational Assistant I and II, an Educational Assistant III shall have completed a minimum of forty-eight (48) quarter credits, and two years of job-related experience as an Educational Assistant.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements:
School environment; may involve lifting up to 50 pounds and the ability to sit, walk, and/or stand for extended periods of time, both indoors and outdoors.
Revised 3/11/2002
70
FAMILY LEARNING ASSISTANT CHILD CARE WORKER I- TAPP
JOB SUMMARY: The Assistant Child Care Worker, under the supervision of a Program Assistant or TAPP Coordinator, assists the Child Care Worker or Child Development Specialist in caring for the children of student parents.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Care for children by actively playing with them, talking and reading to assist their development in language and social skills.
2.	Observe developmental progress, health and well being of children and report significant observations.
3.	Prepare materials, identifying and utilizing age appropriate methods to help all students participate in the classroom activities.
4.	Perform diapering and toileting duties in accordance with recommendations set by the health consultant (MVNA).
5.	Perform food preparation, serving and clean up duties, follow posted menu; aware and in compliance with CCFP guidelines.
6.	Perform general housekeeping tasks in classroom and other areas used by children in order to assure a safe and sanitary environment.
7.	Respects and contributes to the accomplishments of other staff members through cooperation and the sharing of ideas, duties and responsibilities.
8.	Assist in parent communication by contributing to parent conferences, answering or referring parent concerns and aiding in written communications to parents.
9.	Be familiar with all aspects of the program and its record keeping in order to ensure its smooth continuity.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1. Perform related work as assigned.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	Applicant must meet the requirements and responsibilities of “Assistant Teacher” as defined in Department of Human Services Rule 3.
2.	Good knowledge of day care policies and procedures for children birth through school age.
3.	Knowledge of child development theory.
4.	Ability to speak, read, and write English; a High School Diploma or equivalent.
5.	Ability to work and communicate effectively and positively with children and parents representing Minneapolis’ diverse cultural, socio-economic, and ethnic backgrounds.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements: May require frequent lifting of infants up to 30 pounds, pushing/pulling of strollers or carts, and changing of diapers/toileting children.
FAMILY LEARNING ASSISTANT CHILD CARE WORKER II
Lane Change: 1 year of service and 24 credits, refer to page number 58 in the Addendum.
71
FAMILY LEARNING CHILD CARE HELPER - TAPP
JOB SUMMARY: The Child Care Helper, under the supervision of a Program Assistant or TAPP Coordinator, assists the Child Care Worker in caring for the children of student parents.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Care for children by actively playing with them, talking and reading as directed by lead teacher.
2.	Observe developmental progress, health and well being of children and report significant observations.
3.	Prepare materials, prepare classroom environment for planned activities, help carry out planned activities as directed by lead teacher.
4.	Perform diapering and toileting duties as well as cleaning and maintaining area in accordance with recommendations set by the health consultant (MVNA).
5.	Perform food preparation, serving and clean up duties, follow posted menu; aware and in compliance with CCFP guidelines.
6.	Perform general housekeeping tasks in classroom and other areas used by children in order to assure a safe and sanitary environment.
7.	Respect and contribute to the accomplishments of other staff members through cooperation and the sharing of ideas, duties and responsibilities.
8.	Be familiar with all aspects of the program in order to ensure its smooth continuity.
9.	Attend staff inservice and development meetings.
10.	Exhibit an awareness of overall program philosophy.
11.	Develop an agenda for personal development including regularly updated first aide training.
12.	Demonstrate ability to communicate with parents, building personnel, and community members regarding program services.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1. Performs related work as assigned.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	Applicant must meet the requirements and responsibilities of “Aide” as defined in Department of Human Services Rule 3.
2.	Ability to speak, read, and write English; a High School Diploma or equivalent.
3.	Ability to work and communicate effectively and positively with children and parents representing Minneapolis’ diverse cultural, socio-economic, and ethnic backgrounds.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements: May require frequent lifting of children up to 30 pounds, pushing/pulling of strollers orcarts, and changing of diapers, toileting children.
72
FAMILY LEARNING CHILD CARE WORKER-TAPP
JOB SUMMARY: The Child Care Worker, under the supervision of a Program Assistant or TAPP Coordinator, serves as the lead teacher (as defined in DHS Rule 3) supervising the children of student parents.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Develop curriculum to meet the social, emotional and intellectual needs of the children that includes developing child related goals, developing written plans of daily activities, posting a daily schedule.
2.	Work directly with children when implementing programs and activities including transition periods.
3.	Observe developmental progress, health and well being of children and report significant observations.
4.	Develop and implement a plan for parent communication.
5.	Communicate regularly with program staff regarding programming.
6.	Respect and contribute to the accomplishments of other staff members through cooperation and the sharing of ideas, duties and responsibilities.
7.	Be familiar with all aspects of the program in order to ensure its smooth continuity.
8.	Attend staff in-service and development meetings.
9.	Exhibit an awareness of overall program philosophy.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	Perform related work as assigned.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
2.	Applicant must meet the requirements and responsibilities of “Teacher” as defined in Department of Human Services Rule 3.
3.	Considerable knowledge of day care policies and procedures for children birth through school age.
4.	Good knowledge of child development theory.
5.	Ability to speak, read, and write English; a High School Diploma or equivalent.
6.	Ability to work and communicate effectively and positively with children and parents representing Minneapolis’ diverse cultural, socio-economic, and ethnic backgrounds.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements: May require frequent lifting of children up to 30 pounds, pushing/pulling of strollers orcarts, and changing of diapers, toileting children.
73
HEALTH EDUCATOR II
JOB SUMMARY: Under direction, perform professional and administrative work of more than ordinary difficulty and complexity directing health education programs, and related work as required.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Analyzes clinic data, census tract data, neighborhood characteristic data and other data to determine demographics and community needs information to be used in Health Department Education Programs.
2.	Assists in planning and implementing the Health Department Education Programs.
3.	Plans, prepares and distributes pamphlets, brochures and posters.
4.	Prepares and adapts materials for use in radio and television announcements and programs.
5.	Prepares slides, films, billboard displays, exhibits, and educational materials.
6.	Plans and conducts educational meetings.
7.	Instructs staff in health education methods and techniques.
8.	Plans and conducts orientation meetings on functions, programs and services of the Health Department.
9.	Appears as a speaker or obtains speakers for meetings.
10.	Assists community organizations in establishing effective use of project funds and keeps a current account of expenditures.
11.	Assists in preparation of departmental and federal agency reports.
12.	Plans and conducts surveys to determine community needs and resources.
13.	May perform lead work duties over Health Educators I.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	Performs related duties as required.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	Good knowledge of procedures and methods involved in establishing health education programs.
2.	Good knowledge of mass communication systems.
3.	Good knowledge of community resources and agencies.
4.	Good knowledge of marketing and research techniques and practices as they relate to health programs.
5.	Good knowledge of the techniques involved in the preparation of news releases, reports, brochures, etc.
6.	Considerable knowledge of the programs and policies of the Minneapolis Health Department.
7.	Ability to present ideas accurately, effectively, and concisely both orally and in writing.
8.	Ability to work with people of various levels of education and socio-economic backgrounds.
9.	Ability to develop creative programs.
10.	Ability to conduct meetings.
11.	Ability to work independently.
12.	Ability to plan and implement complex programs.
74
INDIAN HOME SCHOOL LIAISON
JOB SUMMARY: Increase the educational success for all Native American students by facilitating and improving communication between the school and Native American parents, and assist in solving problems which may exist or which may develop that relate to Native American students.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Establish/maintain regular contact with Native American students and parents through home visits, phone contacts, and a variety of other means.
2.	Assist in the identification of Native American students with learning/behavioral issues.
3.	Make referrals to social workers and other professional staff regarding Native American students with special education concerns.
4.	Provide information about special education and parental rights to parents of disabled students in consultation with appropriate professional staff.
5.	Attend Individual Education Plan (IEP) meetings, staffing and team meetings that concern and involve Native American students.
6.	Identify Native American students experiencing attendance problems and work with the student/parent to improve attendance.
7.	Provide appropriate data to school staff regarding attendance issues of Native American students.
8.	Identify, monitor, and follow up on Native American students with attendance issues.
9.	Provide consultation to school staff regarding unique needs of Native American students and appropriate strategies to address them.
10.	Maintain a written log that documents special education services provided to at-risk Native American students.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	Perform other related duties as assigned/required.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	High School Diploma, or GED equivalent.
2.	Two years of experience working with Native American youth or families in the Native American community.
3.	Knowledge of Native American culture and heritage.
4.	Knowledge of current needs/issues of Native American students and parents.
5.	Knowledge of special education programs, laws, due process, and Individual Educational Plans.
6.	Knowledge of community resources and how they connect/relate to the Native American community.
7.	Ability to work and relate effectively with children and families from Native American backgrounds.
8.	Ability to communicate effectively in written and oral forms.
Lane Change: To advance to an Indian Home School Liaison II, an employee shall have achieved both an Indian Home School Liaison I rating and successfully completed at least twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work during employment and has served at least one (1) full year as an Indian Home School Liaison I. Lane Change: To advance to an Indian Home School Liaison III, an employee shall have achieved an Indian Home School Liaison II rating, have successfully completed an additional twenty-four (24) quarter credits of approved course work during employment, and have served at least one (I) full year as an Indian Home School Liaison II.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements: School environment. Ability to travel between locations.
75
INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNOLOGY ASSISTANT II
JOB SUMMARY: Coordinate the maintenance and inventory of instructional technology equipment; assist the Instructional Technology Assistant III to maintain, set up, and repair computers, printers, and software installations and/or computer hardware and software; and provide support to staff on its use.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Schedule and coordinate the load of audio-visual, video, and computer equipment, hardware or software, to teachers and other school staff for use in the classroom or for presentations.
2.	Maintain a computerized circulation system, and related records.
3.	Inspect returned instructional technology equipment, and perform necessary maintenance and routine repairs.
4.	Arrange for major repair of equipment with Electronics Repair.
5.	Track and retrieve overdue equipment and materials.
6.	Prepare and maintain requisitions for the purchase of new instructional technology equipment, hardware and software.
7.	Processes new audio-visual, video and computer hardware and/or software, and maintains records.
8.	Assists in the inventory of all audio-visual, video and computer hardware and/or software, and maintains records.
9.	Delivers and sets up instructional technology equipment at the central offices for meetings and presentations, and gives assistance to staff with its operation.
10.	Contacts vendors and other outside resources on problems with the equipment.
11.	Provides users with technical and procedural information regarding the use of equipment hardware or software, by telephone.
12.	May provide on-site training and support to teachers and other personnel regarding the use of equipment hardware and/or software.
13.	May assist certified staff with in services for teachers.
14.	May assist in producing written descriptions and directions for distribution within the District.
15.	May provide back-up field support for equipment installation and trouble-shooting.
16.	May oversee the work of students in processing equipment.
17.	Performs related work as assigned.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	High School Diploma or Equivalent.
2.	Minimum of 12 months of experience in technology, duplication, support, maintenance, and circulation.
3.	Ability to type 45 words per minute.
4.	Ability to relate and communicate effectively and positively with individuals with diverse cultural, socio-ecomonic and ethnic backgrounds.
5.	Ability to provide step-by-step instructions in a clear, understandable manner.
6.	Knowledge of the operation and maintenance of a variety of instructional equipment (audio-visual, video, and computer equipment).
7.	Ability to keep simple records.
8.	Ability to follow oral and written instructions.
Working Conditions: School/office environment. Ability to lift and maneuver items weighing up to 50 pounds.
76
INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNOLOGY ASSISTANT III
JOB SUMMARY: Provide field support to the school in the installation, maintenance and/or operation of instructional technology and computer equipment.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Install and/or set up instructional technology equipment and computer hardware in the schools and other field sites.
2.	Install, maintain, and troubleshoot computer networks for MAC, DOS, Windows, and any future operating systems.
3.	Diagnose hardware and software problems on all equipment.
4.	Perform minor or routine repairs on equipment, using the appropriate tools; assist in arranging for major repairs when appropriate.
5.	Respond to user service questions or complaints by phone or in person.
6.	Consult with vendors and other outside resources to determine solutions to unusual problems in equipment operation and maintenance.
7.	Provide in-service training classes and individual staff training on-site to Media Specialist, Teachers and Educational Assistants on the proper operation and maintenance of equipment.
8.	Evaluate new technology for the District, and may assist schools and departments in selecting Instructional Technology and Computer equipment by assessing and evaluating needs, reviewing sales literature, contacting sales representatives, etc.
9.	Coordinate the inventory of all equipment and make recommendations concerning the replacement or removal of equipment from the inventory.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	Perform other duties as required/assigned.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	High School diploma, or equivalent; and 30 quarter credits of education specifically in computer use, peripherals, software, setup and maintenance.
2.	Two years full time experience operating, maintaining and repairing instructional technology equipment or computer hardware. Novell, Macintosh, Windows Operating systems, preferred.
3.	Knowledge of the operation and maintenance of instructional technology equipment/computers PC/MAC. Network Operating systems Novell, NT, Appleshare preferred.
4.	Knowledge of computer hardware and software, including equipment function, with familiarity with a variety of operating systems.
5.	Knowledge of computer networking.
6.	Knowledge of instructional technology and computer repair, and of the tools and equipment used to maintain the equipment.
7.	Mechanical ability to troubleshoot a wide variety of equipment in the school system.
8.	Strong communication skills in resolving problems of equipment users and providing in-service training.
9.	Strong organizational skills.
10.	Ability to acquire new skills in response to changing technology
11.	Ability to accurately type 45 words per minute.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements: School/office environment. Ability to lift and move equipment up to 50 pounds. Frequent exposure to video display terminals, dust, dirt, and noise.
77
INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SPECIALIST
JOB SUMMARY: Responsible for all aspects of instructional data and network communications District-wide. Work both individually and in team environment to meet the instructional technology needs of staff and students in all District school sites.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Install and configure network servers with operating systems such as Novell 3.1 or 4.1, Appleshare 3.x to 6.x and future operating systems.
2.	Install hubs, switches, within LAN and WAN environment.
3.	Connect main closet router and connect fiber to all closets.
4.	Install email servers in LAN/WAN environment.
5.	Provide ongoing District-wide technical support, troubleshoot and diagnose hardware and software problems for LANs/WANs within the District.
6.	Design and configure prototypes for Macintosh and/or PC according to the needs of the individual lab or site and deploy that image to multiple machines.
7.	Work with facilities to design and wire Media Centers, Labs and classrooms.
8.	Maintain and update Circulation/Catalog/Textbook Plus systems at every school site.
9.	Maintain a database of all instructional servers and other hardware in LAN/WAN environment within the District.
10.	Provide planning and technical support for installation of LAN/WAN network infrastructure.
11.	Provide instructions and training for building site Technology Assistants Ils and Ills while implementing building LANs.
12.	Evaluate and recommend new technology hardware or software for District LANs and WANs.
13.	Create and update Web sites for the District.
14.	Troubleshoot the WAN environment.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	45 credits of post high school education specifically in computer use, peripherals, software, set-up and maintenance or equivalent training.
2.	High School diploma or equivalent.
3.	3-4 years full time experience operating, maintaining, and repairing instructional technology equipment or computer hardware wiring within a network environment. Macintosh, Windows, or Novell experience required.
4.	Knowledge of the operation of both Macintosh and PC operating systems required.
5.	Knowledge and expertise in LAN/WAN environment.
6.	Ability to troubleshoot a wide variety of hardware and software problems. Strong organizational, communication and supervisory skills.
7.	Ability to acquire new skills and training to respond to changing technology.
8.	Experience in technology staff development training.
9.	Expertise with network adapters, hubs, and switches.
10.	Experience with troubleshooting routers.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements: School/office environment. Ability to lift and move equipment up to 50 pounds. Frequent exposure to video display terminals, dust, dirt, and noise.
78
MINNEAPOLIS KIDS CHILD CARE ASSISTANT I
JOB SUMMARY: The Child Care Assistant is responsible to the Site Coordinator assigned to the location. She/He assists the Site Coordinator with program development and maintenance which may include all or some of the following: planned activities, supervising children, goal setting, environment and preparation, interest areas, sanitary and safety checks and procedures, parent communication and conferences, and program records.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Assists the Site-Coordinator with goal setting and program implementation and evaluation.
2.	Works directly with and supervises children in planned activities (including field trips) and during lunch, snack, transition and quiet time.
3.	Maintains room environment by setting up, cleaning, and storing supplies and equipment.
4.	Assists the Site Coordinator in preparing and maintaining program site records and reports.
5.	Assists the Site Coordinator in assuring students’ safety and well being.
6.	Promotes positive parent communication regarding children’s day.
7.	Communicates regularly and as necessary with program staff and building personnel regarding programming.
8.	Attends required staff meetings.
9.	Participates in ongoing staff development.
10.	Assists with other related duties necessary for the proper operation of the program.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	Graduation from a two year Child Development Training Course.
2.	Six months of full-time (or equivalent part-time) experience working with infants, and/or toddlers as a Child Care Aide in a day care center, plus completion of three accredited Child Development training courses (90 hours).
3.	Meets the Minnesota State Department of Welfare Center licensing requirements for "assistant teachers”.
4.	Considerable knowledge of day care procedures and goals for school age children.
5.	Knowledge of developmental needs of children.
6.	Knowledge of child development theory.
7.	Ability to implement a program that meets the social, emotional, intellectual and physical needs of the children.
8.	Ability to effectively discipline and maintain order in a day care setting.
9.	Ability to interact and relate effectively to children and staff with multicultural and multiethnic backgrounds.
MINNEAPOLIS KIDS CHILD CARE ASSISTANT II
Lane Change: 1 year of service and 24 credits, refer to page 60 in the Addendum.
79
MINNEAPOLIS KIDS SITE COORDINATOR
JOB SUMMARY: The Site Coordinator is responsible to the Program Manager for the overall program operation at childcare locations before and after school and on school release/vacation days. The Site Coordinator provides leadership for assistant childcare workers, substitutes, as well as volunteers, at each location.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Develops and maintains quality programming including curriculum and schedule of daily activities.
2.	Works directly with children when implementing programs and activities including transition periods and lunch/snack time.
3.	Develops goals regarding room environment including equipment, interest areas, sanitary and safety checks.
4.	Develops and maintains a plan for parent communication to include orientation, conferences, meetings, notes, newsletters, with the Advisory Council representative.
5.	Communicates regularly with program staff and building personnel (at the location) regarding programming and other related matters.
6.	Prepares and maintains accurate staffing in accordance with recommended ratios.
7.	Participates in ongoing staff development.
8.	Participates in parent/staff conferences, advisory council, and program leadership team meetings.
9.	Assists with program marketing.
10.	Helps assimilate children with special needs by collaboration with the Program Assistant, parent, school personnel and agencies.
11.	Performs other related duties assigned by the Program Manager for the proper operation of the program.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	May be required to interpret program policy in supervisor’s absence.
2.	May serve as model during child development classes.
3.	Perform other related duties as required.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	Good knowledge of day care procedures and goals for school age children.
2.	Some knowledge of child development theory.
3.	Ability to meet Minnesota State Department of Welfare Center licensing requirements for “teachers” (In 1978, this required equivalent of a Bachelor’s degree including or supplemented by child development coursework and work experience with school age children OR state certification as an elementary or secondary teacher OR equivalent combinations of training and experience).
4.	Considerable knowledge of day care procedures and goals for school age children.
5.	Good knowledge of child development theory.
6.	Ability to relate effectively with school age children, school staff, parents, and personnel of other child care agencies.
7.	Ability to maintain order when supervising children, yet express warmth and friendliness.
80
PROGRAM AIDE I (Effective 2002-03 school year) (Job title transition/refer to “class options” under Associate Educator)
JOB SUMMARY: Under general supervision, assist in public relations, promoting the school or program, coordinating and implementing school programs and community services, and to perform related clerical work.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Inform parents, students and the public of the school/department’s purpose and programs.
2.	Assist with the implementation of special projects and programs related to the school, program, or department.
3.	Make presentations to parents, students and the public to increase awareness and provide information about the school/program.
4.	Prepare all required forms by verifying and collecting information.
5.	Interview parents, students, or the public and advise them about obtaining services from or programs available to the school.
6.	Provide information about the school and its programs to visitors, students, and parents.
7.	Perform liaison duties between students, staff, visitors/the public and the school or program.
8.	Encourage parents and others in the community to become involved in school programs.
9.	Perform a variety of clerical duties including typing, filing, answering telephones, data entry, etc.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	May solicit volunteers and coordinate their efforts on some projects.
2.	May prepare reports of work activities.
3.	Perform other duties as assigned/requested.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	High School Diploma or GED equivalent.
2.	One year of experience in providing services to low income or disadvantaged groups, OR one year working in an educational environment.
3.	Knowledge of laws, rules and guidelines related to various programs.
4.	Knowledge of community services and programs available to the District.
5.	Knowledge of District operations.
6.	Ability to interview and communicate effectively.
7.	Ability to use tact and diplomacy in dealing with others.
8.	Ability to write simple reports.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements: Ability to lift up to 20 pounds, normal office conditions.
PROGRAM AIDE II
Lane Change: 1 year of service and 24 credits, refer to page 60 in the Addendum.
81
SCHOOL COMMUNITY LIAISON I (Effective 2002-03 school year) (Job title transition/refer to “class options” under Associate Educator)
JOB SUMMARY: Under general supervision, perform duties of more than ordinary difficulty and complexity in assisting professional school social work and special education personnel.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Assist in the planning, evaluating and implementing a plan for students referred because of absenteeism and/or special education needs.
2.	Function as a team member with other school staff members including the principal, counselor, social worker and/or special education staff in responding to the individual needs of students and their families assigned to the case load.
3.	Gather information from school files and may conduct an initial home visit to interview the family and student to verify data.
4.	Act as an advocate for the student with all school system personnel and outside agencies.
5.	Interpret and inform the students and/or parents as to their responsibilities and benefits of the educational process.
6.	Utilize computer technology to access student records within the Minneapolis School District.
7.	Interact and relate to students in a variety of situations.
8.	Supervise students entering and exiting the truancy center.
9.	Maintain records and communicate with involved parties.
10.	Act and actively participate as a positive team member.
11.	Assist students by tutoring in the subject areas of Math and English.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	May meet on a regular basis with students and/or parents.
2.	May conduct group sessions with assigned students.
3.	May assist the students and/or parents in developing goals for keeping the students in school.
4.	May accompany the student and/or parents to juvenile courts, welfare department, hospital or other agencies.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	High School Diploma or GED equivalent, with demonstrated performance in the areas of Math and standard written and spoken English.
2.	Considerable knowledge of community, county, school, and city agencies, and the role of the school in the community.
3.	Considerable knowledge and sensitivity to the educational, social, and cultural needs of students, parents, and other people.
4.	Knowledge of, and ability to use, computer technology.
5.	Ability to exercise good judgment when interacting with students.
6.	Ability to relate effectively to students in a variety of situations and experiences.
7.	Ability to maintain effective working relationships with children, parents, and professional staff.
8.	Ability to collect, compile, verify and report on relative data on assigned students.
9.	Ability to communicate effectively with individuals and groups.
10.	Supports the District’s position of valuing diversity and promoting respect towards others.
SCHOOL COMMUNITY LIAISION II
Lane Change: 1 year of service and 24 credits, refer to page 60 in the Addendum.
SCHOOL COMMUNITY LIAISION III
Lane Change: 2 years of service and 24 additional credits (48 total credits), refer to page 60 in the Addendum.
82
SCHOOL SUCCESS PROGRAM ASSISTANT
JOB SUMMARY: Work directly and collaboratively with District service units, administrators, school site staff, parents and students, and community service providers to develop comprehensive and inclusive strategies that address the school success of students.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Assist in the identification and development of procedures and agreements with schools, community agencies and resources that promote improved student performance in school.
2.	Provide advocacy services at educational meetings for students and parents.
3.	Provide training on conflict resolution, peer mediation, or other subjects related to improving student success.
4.	Work collaboratively with schools and programs to define and outline the role of school staff in improving student success and performance.
5.	Assist in the development of various in-service models for staff, and community and public agencies which address student success.
6.	Refine and adapt various educational service systems designed to meet the needs of students K -22 years of age.
7.	Work with staff to identify professional staff development needs by planning, organizing, and facilitating programs that improve staff effectiveness and which are consistent with instructional goals.
8.	Research and write grants/proposals for development and expansion of District programs that impact school success for students.
ADITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1. Perform additional related duties as requested/required.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	Bachelor’s degree in Corrections, Child Psychology, Child Development, Education, Social Sciences or closely related area. An equivalent amount of course work may be considered.
2.	Knowledge of issues, research, and practices that influence school engagement for youth.
3.	Knowledge of techniques/strategies used in relationship building and affiliation activities in school based programs.
4.	Knowledge of policies and/or statutes relative to education, attendance, truancy, special education, or data privacy.
5.	Two years experience in youth counseling, special education, education, juvenile corrections, or related area.
6.	Experience in conflict resolution and mediation, and team building.
7.	Experience working with staff, students and families in a large urban school system that deals with complex student issues and economic and cultural diversity.
8.	Strong oral communication skills; with the ability to prepare and give formal oral presentations to groups.
9.	Strong writing skills, with experience in technical writing.
10.	Ability to relate to and work effectively with individuals and groups with diverse backgrounds.
11.	Ability to perceive the needs and concerns of others, and to interact in a tactful manner.
12.	Ability to educate the community and agencies to persuade partnerships related to student issues.
Working Conditions: Office environment, with some travel between sites.
83
SPECIAL EDUCATION ASSISTANT
Position Summary: With supervision, assist licensed Minneapolis Public School staff in the implementation of a comprehensive educational program for students, age 0 to 22 years old, who are in Special Education programs across multiple school and community environments as aligned with The Standards of Effective Instructional Support for Educational Assistants. Individuals will work in programs that serve students with autism, mental impairments, physical impairments, other health impairments and behavioral disorders as well as those who are deaf/hard of hearing, have visual impairments and in Early Childhood Special Education programs.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Required:
1.	Minimum of a High School Diploma or GED equivalent; plus 90-quarter (60 semester) college credits.
2.	Demonstrates performance of standard English (written and/or oral) and Mathematics.
3.	Attends and completes mandatory 80 hour Special Education Core and Disability training offered by the District within one year of employment.
4.	Attends and completes appropriate 20 Hour Special Education Disability Training required for transfer into new Special Education disability programs, i.e.: Autism, MMMI, POHI, EBD, Academic Support, and ECSE within one year of transfer into the new position.
5.	Fulfillment of a minimum of twenty (20) continuing education hours annually, subsequent to 80 Hour Special Education Core and Disability training, which includes maintaining current CPI, CPR, and First Aid certifications.
Desirable:
1.	Minimum of two (2) years of experience within the past five (5) years working in either general education, Special Education, day treatment programs, residential programs, or other health care settings, providing direct care to individuals with a disability.
2.	Training and/or experience in the use of computers and other technology equipment.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
The following job functions include, but are not limited to, the following fundamental duties: Essential:
1.	Establishes positive relationships with students and acts as a role model for appropriate social skills and behavior in all situations.
2.	Assists staff in the management of student behavior by applying proactive strategies when dealing with students’ behaviors. Implements District approved techniques for verbal deescalation, personal safety, and safe physical restraints. Assumes safety responsibilities for students in all environments.
3.	Provides direct instructional support to individual and/or groups of students and monitors behaviors, and attends designated classes/activities with the student(s) as outlined in the Individual Education Plan (IEP).
4.	Collects data in accordance with student(s) IEP goals and objectives as directed by licensed staff.
5.	Collaborates and works cooperatively, as a team member, with colleagues, staff, and community representatives.
6.	Follows written and oral instructions, and independently follows through on teacher directed p rog ra m m i n g/strateg i es.
7.	Communicates effectively in both oral/written formats and gives clear concise directions.
8.	Supports the District’s position of valuing diversity and promoting respect.
9.	Maintains professional District Educational Assistant and Special Education Assistant
competencies by attending mandatory in-services and workshops, and in self-selected professional growth activities as related to the individual Professional Development Plan (PDP).
84
10.	Attends to and provides for students’ daily hygiene, personal and health related cares, including dressing, feeding, lifting, transferring, toileting/diapering, and medical cares, as directed by licensed staff.
11.	Assumes safety responsibilities for students when providing community-based instruction and vocational training.
12.	Participates in and assists students in planned community, recreational, school and leisure activities.
13.	Assists students arriving and departing on buses.
14.	Meets District’s standards for employee performance and attendance.
Additional:
1.	May be expected or required to ride on buses to and from school with Special Education students.
2.	Performs other related duties as assigned.
Working Conditions/Physical Requirements:
School/classroom environment; outside work; community based instruction; observe/manage student behavior that may include non-violent physical restraints; toilet/diaper/feed/lift/carry up to 50 pounds; use of adaptive equipment; teaming with classroom teacher and other support staff; use of technology.
Revised 3/11/2002
85
TRANSPORTATION RESOURCE ASSISTANT
(Effective 2002-03 school year)
(Job title transition/refer to “class options” under Associate Educator)
JOB SUMMARY: The Transportation Resource Assistant, under supervision, assists in the safe and timely arrival of buses and establishes pick up and drop off stops for all students including LEP and Special Education students.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Responds to teacher, parent, student, and driver concerns pertaining to bus-related behavior, and takes the initiative to get to the core of the problem or incident.
2.	Investigates, and establishes consequences for, student misbehavior on the bus.
3.	Observes and corrects concerns at bus stops when appropriate.
4.	Works with administrator on establishing uniform discipline procedures.
5.	Communicates effectively with parents or guardians concerning students who are having discipline or safety problems.
6.	Maintains accurate and timely records of student misconduct reports.
7.	Communicates with administrators and the Transportation Department about any transportation concerns and problems presented to the Transportation Resource Assistant by parents and/or riders (e.g. safety, behaviors of students and/or bus drivers).
8.	Maintains accurate information and lists of all student riders.
9.	Makes arrangements for the transportation home of students who miss their buses.
10.	Assists with lifting and positioning of students and adaptive equipment weighing up to 70 pounds as needed.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	Assists with bus or hall duty schedule.
2.	Assists with building security.
3.	Performs related duties as assigned or required.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	A current employee of the Minneapolis Public Schools.
2.	Completed two (2) years of related post secondary education; or at least two (2) full-time school years of verifiable, related experience.
3.	Knowledge of safe school bus ridership safety procedures.
4.	Knowledge of the laws that affect the safe transportation of students.
5.	Knowledge of child and adolescent behaviors and appropriate disciplinary actions.
6.	Knowledge of good record keeping, recording, and clerical techniques.
7.	Excellent human relations skills; with the ability to relate and communicate in an effective manner with students of all ages and adults of diverse cultural, socio-economic, educational, and ethnic backgrounds.
8.	Ability to act decisively and use independent judgment when reacting to student disruptions; and to exhibit more than ordinary tact, diplomacy and patience at all times.
9.	Ability to research, investigate, and resolve student related incidents.
Working Conditions: Ability to lift and position students and adaptive equipment weighing up to 70 pounds.
86
TRUANCY WORKER
(Effective 2002-03 school year) (Job title transition/refer to “class options” under Associate Educator)
JOB SUMMARY: Assist the school social work personnel in providing truancy services to students and their families.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
1.	Assist social workers in implementing and documenting attendance and truancy procedures.
2.	Provide individual group counseling to improve school attendance.
3.	Work with parents to enlist their involvement in school attendance.
4.	Encourage parental participation in school activities.
5.	Make home visits.
6.	Assist parents in seek services from community agencies.
7.	Monitor and provide support to students with attendance problems.
8.	Plan, monitor, and implement social reinforcement and behavior modification programs designed to improve attendance.
9.	Participate in school conferences, parent conferences, and team meetings.
10.	Collect and record information for Juvenile Court Referrals, enrollment and other forms.
11.	Locate and follow-up on unenrolled or non-attending students.
12.	Maintain records of student service activities for documentation and/or evaluation purposes.
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
1.	Perform other related duties as assigned/required.
EDUCATION, EXPERIENCE, AND SKILLS REQUIRED:
1.	High school diploma or GED and one (1) year of college course work in Human Services or Social Services.
2.	Two (2) years full-time experience in social work service agency with youth or families, juvenile corrections or recreation.
3.	Ability to relate and work effectively with children and families from diverse cultural, economic and ethnic backgrounds.
4.	Good knowledge of and sensitivity to the educational, social and cultural needs of the community.
87
APPENDIX A
SALARY RATES
POSITIONS ELIGIBLE FOR LANE CHANGES
Steps	Community School Coordinator I)	Community School Coordinator II (requires 24 quarter credits and 1 yr. service)
1	15.25	18.63
2	15.73	19.17
3	16.31	19.65
4	17.32	20.15
5	17.75	20.64
6	18.29	21.19
Steps	Educational Asst. I (new to the District)	Educational Asst. II (requires 1 year service and 24 credits)	Educational Asst. Ill (requires 2 years of experience, EA II rating, 48 credits or AA degree)
1	10.20		
2	10.74	12.34	
3	11.28	12.89	15.48
4	12.28	13.43	16.29
5	12.84	14.03	17.00
6	13.37	14.55	17.77
7		15.29	18.53
8			19.23
Steps	Family Learning Assistant Child Care Worker I	Family Learning Assistant Child Care Worker II (requires 24 quarter credits and 1 yr service)	
1	11.13	12.00	
2	11.69	12.56	
3	12.24	13.09	
4	13.24	13.71	
5	13.79	14.20	
6	14.35	14.78	
A-l
APPENDIX A
SALARY RATES
POSITIONS ELIGIBLE FOR LANE CHANGES
(Continued)
Steps	Indian Home School Liaison I	Indian Home School Liaison II (requires 24 quarter credits and 1 yr. Service as Liaison I)	Indian Home School Liaison III (requires 24 quarter credits and 1 yr. Service as Liaison II)
1	13.98	15.65	17.45
2	14.67	16.40	18.29
3	15.31	17.18	19.15
4	15.99	18.07	20.07
Steps	Mpls Kids Child Care Assistant I (requires 2-year child development course, 6 months experience, plus 3 child development training courses)	Mpls Kids Child Care Assistant II (requires 24 credits and one year service)
1	11.13	12.00
2	11.69	12.56
3	12.24	13.09
4	13.24	13.71
5	13.79	14.20
6	14.35	14.78
Steps	Program Aide I	Program Aide II (requires 1 yr service, 24 credits)
1	13.94	15.43
2	14.46	15.95
3	14.94	16.42
4	15.43	16.96
5	15.91	17.46
6	16.48	17.99
A-2
APPENDIX A
SALARY RATES
POSITIONS WITH SPECIAL ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
Steps	Associate Educator (requires 90 quarter or 60 semester college credits and/or AA degree, & 2 yrs of experience, CPI Training)	Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant (requires 2-yr COTA course, one year experience)	Certified Physical Therapist Assistant (requires Physical Therapy AA degree)
1	17.32	17.96	17.96
2	18.07	18.69	18.69
3	18.86	19.50	19.50
4	19.70	20.26	20.26
5	20.43	21.19	21.19
6	21.23	21.98	21.98
Steps	Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinator (requires BA degree or elem. or sec. teacher license, or equiv. Combination of training & experience.)	School Success Program Assistant (requires BA, two years experience)	Special Education Asst. (SEA) (requires 90 or 60 semester college credits, 80 hrs Special Ed training, and 20 annual Continuing Education clock hours)
1	16.22	22.97	14.80
2	16.69	23.72	15.61
3	17.13	24.44	16.32
4	17.60	25.15	17.09
5	18.06	25.89	17.84
6	18.47	26.62	18.54
A-3
APPENDIX A
SALARY RATES
CLASSIFICATION
2003-2005
OTHER POSITIONS
Aide to Principal
First Step	15.48
Second Step	16.28
Third Step	17.00
Fourth Step	17.76
Fifth Step	18.52
Sixth Step	19.22
Bilingual Program Assistant
First Step	15.34
Second Step	16.15
Third Step	16.86
Fourth Step	17.63
Fifth Step	18.39
Sixth Step	19.09
Family Learning Child Care Helper
First Step	7.01
Second Step	7.19
Third Step	7.46
Fourth Step	7.69
Fifth Step	7.97
Sixth Step	8.15
Family Learning Child Care Worker
First Step	16.22
Second Step	16.69
Third Step	17.13
Fourth Step	17.60
Fifth Step	18.06
Sixth Step	18.47
A-4
APPENDIX A
SALARY RATES
CLASSIFICATION	2003-2005
Health Educator II
First Step	21.61
Second Step	22.77
Third Step	23.99
Fourth Step	25.22
Fifth Step	26.66
Sixth Step	28.09
Instructional Technology Assistant II
First Step	14.70
Second Step	15.56
Third Step	16.25
Fourth Step	17.20
Fifth Step	17.99
Sixth Step	19.06
Instructional Technology Assistant III
First Step	17.11
Second Step	17.86
Third Step	18.65
Fourth Step	19.49
Fifth Step	20.23
Sixth Step	21.02
Instructional Technology Support Specialist
First Step	21.84
Second Step	22.86
Third Step	23.89
Fourth Step	24.91
Fifth Step	25.93
Sixth Step	26.97
A-5
APPENDIX A
SALARY RATES
CLASSIFICATION	2003-2005
School Community Liaison Assistant 1 (Truancy and Outreach Worker) First Step Second Step Third Step Fourth Step School Community Liaison Assistant II (Truancy and Outreach Worker) First Step Second Step Third Step Fourth Step	13.98 14.67 15.31 15.99 15.65 16.40 17.18 18.07
School Community Liaison Assistant III (Truancy and Outreach Worker) First Step Second Step Third Step Fourth Step	17.45 18.29 19.15 20.07
Transportation Resource Assistant First Step Second Step Third Step Fourth Step Fifth Step Sixth Step	14.80 15.61 16.32 17.09 17.84 18.54
Employees, supervisors, or other interested parties should refer to the ADDENDUM of the July 2003-2005 contractual agreement for more detailed information regarding the employment or transfer requirements for any of the above listed positions.
A-6
INDEX
Accomodations, Disability........................42
Addendum.........................................57
Administrative Transfer..........................42
Adoption Leave...................................31
Agreement, Complete..............................54
Agreement, Definition of..........................4
Agreement, Duration of...........................54
Agreement, Finality of...........................54
Agreement, Publication & Distribution............18
Aide to the Principal, Description...............62
Anniversary Date................................5,	39
Anniversary Date, Definition.....................39
Application and Selection Process AE/SSPA........40
Assault, Reimbursement Resulting From............51
Associate Educator, Description..................63
Basic Life Insurance.............................36
Before Tax Benefits..............................37
Benefit Coverage, Insurance......................36
Benefits, Insurance Enrollment...................37
Benefits, Workers Compensation Leave.............32
Bidding..........................................45
Board of Education's Rights and Obligations........7
Breaks...........................................35
Bumping..........................................45
Bus Duty Homs....................................38
Career Development...............................17
Career Transition Trust..........................28
Cash Out for Unused Sick Leave...................28
Certification, Definition.........................5
Certified Occupational Therapist Asst., Description.66
Certified Physical Therapist Assistant, Description.67
Chemical Dependency Leave........................29
Child Care Leave.................................31
Classification Descriptions......................57
Closing of Schools...............................48
Communication....................................18
Community School Coordinator I, Description......68
Compatibility Period.............................41
Compensation for Staff Development & Training.....8
Compensatory Time Salary.........................34
Complete Agreement...............................54
Credits for Career Advancement, Definition........5
Critical Illness in the Family...................30
Critical Illness of a Friend.....................30
Days, Work.......................................38
Death in the Family..............................30
Death of a Friend................................30
Deferred Compensation............................38
Definition of Agreement...........................4
Definitions.......................................5
Dental Insurance..................................36
Dependent Care Assistance Plan Benefits..........38
Detail, Definition................................5
Disability Accomodations.........................42
Disability Insurance.............................36
Discipline, Employee..............................7
Discrimination, Non..............................54
Distribution and Publication of Agreement...........18
Dues Checkoff, Request for...........................6
Dues deduction, Remittance of........................6
Duration of Agreement...............................54
Early Childhood Family Education....................49
Educational Assistant I, II, III, Description.......69
Employee Discipline..................................7
Employee Only Insurance Contribution................36
Enrollment for Insurance Benefits...................37
Evaluation and Reclassification of Job..............42
Excessed Educational Assistant, Replacement of......45
Exclusive Representation.............................4
Family Insurance Contribution.......................36
Family Learning Assistant Child Care Worker I - TAPP, Description.......................................71
Family Learning Assistant Child Care Worker II, Description.......................................71
Family Learning Child Care Helper - TAPP.............72
Family Medical Leave Act............................33
Fitness for Duty....................................33
Flexible Spending Account...........................38
Fresh Start.........................................47
Full-Time Employees, Hours/Days.....................38
Grievance Procedure.................................52
Grievance, Definition...............................52
Hours/Days..........................................38
Indemnification.....................................35
Indian Home School Liaison, Description.............75
Injury, Personal....................................51
Instructional Technology Assistant II, Description...76
Instructional Technology Assistant III, Description..77
Instructional Technology Support Specialist, Description
.................................................78
Insurance, Basic Life...............................36
Insurance, Benefit Coverage.........................36
Insurance, Contribution-Employee Only...............36
Insurance, Contribution-Family......................36
Insurance, Contribution-Married Couple..............36
Insurance, Deduction Before Tax Benefit.............37
Insurance, Dental...................................36
Insurance, Disability...............................36
Insurance, Effective Date of Coverage...............37
Insurance, Eligibility..............................35
Insurance, Eligibility for Retirees.................36
Insurance, Enrollment for Benefits..................37
Insurance, Health Coverage..........................36
Insurance, L.T.D....................................36
Insurance, Leave of Absence Benefit.................35
Insurance, Life.....................................36
Insurance, Preimium Payment for Retirees............37
Insurance, Retirees.................................36
Insurance, Retirees Active Employee Deduction.......37
Job Descriptions....................................62
Job Descriptions, Summaries.........................57
Job Evaluation and Reclassification.................42
Job Postings........................................43
Job Title Descriptions..............................57
Index - Page 1
Jury Duty............................................30	Part-Time Employees, Hours/Days.....................38
L.T.D. Insurance.....................................36	Personal Injury.....................................51
Lane Changes.........................................34	Personal Injury/Property Benefits...................51
Layoff, Salary.......................................34	Personal Leave......................................31
Leave Benefits & Worker's Compensation Benefits.....32	Personal Property	Benefits.........................51
Leave of Absence.....................................32	Personal Vehicle,	Use of for District Business.....51
Leaves of Absence....................................19	Personnel Files, Right to View.......................6
Leaves With Pay......................................20	Pivate Litigation, Leave............................31
Leaves Without Pay...................................32	Placement of Excessed Educational Assistants........45
Leaves, Chemical Dependency..........................29	Probation, Definition................................5
Leaves, Child Care/Matemity/Adoption.................31	Procedure, Grievance................................52
Leaves, Critical Illness in the Family...............30	Professional Development............................8, 9
Leaves, Death in the Family..........................30	Professional Development Days.......................10
Leaves, Family Medical Leave Act.....................33	Professional Development Plan.......................16
Leaves, Insurance Benefits...........................37	Promotional Transfer................................41
Leaves, Jury Duty....................................30	Publication and Distribution of Agreement...........18
Leaves, Medical......................................24	Rate of Pay, Staff Development.......................8
Leaves, Military Reserve Training....................30	Reclassification....................................42
Leaves, Other Paid Leaves of Absence.................30	Reduction in Force..................................44
Leaves, Personal.....................................31	Reduction in Force, Associate Educator..............44
Leaves, Private Litigation...........................31	Reduction in Force, Bidding.........................45
Leaves, Religious Observances........................31	Reduction in Force, Bumping.........................45
Leaves, Return from..................................19	Reduction in Force, Closing of Schools..............48
Leaves, School Conference............................33	Reduction in Force, Merger of Schools...............48
Leaves, Sick.........................................23	Reduction in Force, Modified Duty Assignments.......42
Leaves, Sick Leave Calculation.......................23	Reduction in Force, Multiple Programs within One
Leaves, Sick Leave, Uses of..........................23	Building.........................................48
Leaves, Vacation.....................................20	Reduction in Force, Notification....................44
Leaves, Vacation Allowance...........................21	Reduction in Force,	Relocation of Programs.........48
Leaves, Vacation Calculation.........................21	Reduction in Force,	Restoration of Hours...........45
Leaves, Vacation, Use of.............................21	Reduction in Force,	School Success Program Asst....44
Leaves, Worker's Compensation Leave Benefits.........32	Reimbursement Damage to Vehicle.....................51
Life Insurance.......................................36	Reimbursement resulting from Assault................51
Long Term Disability Insurance.......................36	Religious Observances...............................31
Management Obligations................................7	Relocation of Programs..............................48
Management Responsibilities...........................7	Remittance of Dues Deduction.........................6
Managerial Policy.....................................7	Request for Dues Checkoff............................6
Married Couple Insurance Contribution................36	Restoration of Hours................................45
Maternity Leave......................................31	Retirees, Active Employee Deduction.................37
Medical Leave........................................24	Retirees, Insurance.................................36
Merger of Schools....................................48	Retirees, Premium Payment, Insurance................37
Mileage..............................................35	Return from Leave...................................19
Military Reserve Training............................30	Right to Join and Participate........................6
Minneapolis Kids Child Care Assistant I, Description...79	Right to Views.......................................5
Minneapolis Kids Child Care Assistant II, Description.. 79	Rights and Obligations of Employees..................5
Minneapolis Kids Program.............................48	Rights and Obligations, Board of Education...........7
Minneapolis Kids Site Coordinator, Description.......80	Salaries............................................33
Modified Duty Assignments............................42	Salary,	Compensatory Time..........................34
Multiple Programs Within One Building................48	Salary,	New Classification.........................34
New Classification Salary............................34	Salary,	Overtime...................................34
No Strike............................................52	Salary,	Progression................................33
Non-Discrimination...................................54	Salary,	Staff Development...........................8
Notification of Reduction in Force...................44	Salary,	Upon Demotion and Layoff...................34
Notification When Absent.............................24	School	Community Liaison I, II, III, Description..82
Obligations, Management...............................7	School	Conference and Activities Leave............33
Open Personnel Files..................................6	School	Success Program Assistant, Description.....83
Other Paid Leaves of Absence.........................30	Seniority...........................................39
Overtime and Compensatory Time Salary................34	Seniority Date, Definition..........................39
Overview of Standards................................11	Seniority, Anniversary Date.........................39
Paid Professional Development Days...................10	Sick Leave Pool.....................................25
Index - Page 1
Sick Leave Pool, Administration..................26
Sick Leave Pool, Membership......................25
Sick Leave Pool, Operation.......................27
Sick Leave, Calculation..........................23
Sick Leave, Cash Out.............................28
Sick Leave, Chemical Dependency..................29
Sick Leave, Medical..............................24
Sick Leave, Notification When Absent.............24
Sick Leave, Uses of..............................23
Sick Leave, Verification.........................24
Signature Page...................................54
Special Education................................49
Special Education Assisant, description..........84
Staff Development.................................8
Staff Development, Career Development.............17
Staff Development, Professional Development........9
Standards of Effective Instruction................10
Standards, Overview...............................11
Strike............................................52
Student Teaching, Benefit Coverage for............17
Summer School.....................................43
Transfer, Administrative..........................42
Transfer, Job Evaluation and Reclassification.....42
Transfer, Promotional.............................41
Vacation, Calculation.............................21
Vacation, Use of..................................21
Vehicle, Reimbursement of Damage..................51
Voluntary Transfer................................40
Index - Page 2