NON-SUPERVISORY SUPPORT EMPLOYEE UNIT
NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE
FREDERICK ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL SUPPORT EMPLOYEES (FASSE)
AND THE
BOARD OF EDUCATION
OF FREDERICK COUNTY, MARYLAND
Frederick County Public Schools
SCHOOL YEARS 2011-2014
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I	- GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1	Memorandum of Understanding...........................................1
1.2	Definition of Terms ................................................. 1
ARTICLE II	- ASSOCIATION/BOARD RELATIONS
2.1	Recognition...........................................................2
2.2	Nondiscrimination ................................................... 2
2.3	Use of Facilities/Access to Building ................................ 2
2.4	Bulletin Boards ..................................................... 2
2.5	Communications ...................................................... 2
2.6	Purchase of Supplies ................................................ 3
2.7	Support Employee Lists .............................................. 3
2.8	FASSE Officials and Building Representatives......................... 3
2.9	Board Meetings ...................................................... 3
2.10	Payroll Deductions .................................................. 4
2.11	Personal Dress .......................................................4
2.12	Personal Life ....................................................... 4
ARTICLE III	- EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS
3.1	Categories of Employment..............................................4
•	Probationary Employees.........................................4
•	Regular Employees..............................................5
•	Temporary Employees............................................5
3.2	Evaluation............................................................6
3.3	Disciplinary Action - Notification....................................6
3.4	Grievance Procedure ................................................. 6
3.5	Personnel File ...................................................... 8
3.6	Announcement of Vacancies ........................................... 9
3.7	Voluntary Transfers.................................................. 9
3.8	Involuntary Transfers .............................................. 10
3.9	Promotions.......................................................... 10
3.10	Bus Driver Transfer Request ........................................ 11
3.11	Reduction in Force.................................................. 11
3.12	Recall ............................................................. 11
3.13	Severance of Employment............................................. 12
3.14	Duties ............................................................. 12
3.15	Work Schedule........................................................12
•	Work Week.....................................................12
•	Work Year.....................................................13
3.16	Hazardous Work Conditions............................................13
3.17	Breaks and Lunch ................................................... 13
ARTICLE IV	- WAGES
4.1	Salary Schedules.....................................................14
4.2	Overtime ........................................................... 14
4.2	a	Allocation ................................................ 15
4.3	Salary Assignment in a Promotion.................................... 15
4.4	Temporary Assignment in Higher Classification ...................... 15
4.5	Shift Differential.................................................. 16
i
ARTICLE V	- HOLIDAYS
ARTICLE VI	- LEAVE PROVISIONS 6.1	Notification.....................................................17
6.2	Leaves with Pay .................................................... 17
6.2a	Sick Leave ................................................ 17
6.2b	Sick Leave Bank ........................................... 18
6.2c	Annual Leave............................................... 18
6.2d	Temporary Leaves of Absence with Pay ...................... 18
6.2e	Personal Leave............................................. 18
6.2f	Jury Duty/Legal Proceedings ............................... 19
6.2g	Bereavement Leave.......................................... 19
6.2h	Professional Leave/Association Leave ...................... 19
6.2i	Assault/Battery Leave ..................................... 20
6.2j	Religious Observance........................................20
6.2k	Sabbatical Leave .......................................... 20
6.3	Leaves Without Pay ................................................. 21
6.3a	Military Leave............................................. 21
6.3b	Maternity Leave ........................................... 21
6.3c	Adoption Leave............................................. 21
6.3d	Paternity Leave ........................................... 21
6.3e	Public Office Leave........................................ 21
6.3f	Personal Disability Leave.................................. 22
6.4	Legal Proceedings ...................................................22
6.5	Benefits During Unpaid Leaves of Absence ........................... 22
6.6	Family Crisis Leave Exchange........................................ 22
ARTICLE VII	- INSURANCE 7.1	Group Health, Dental and Life Insurance.........................24
7.2	Workers’ Compensation .............................................. 25
7.3	Insurance Council .................................................. 26
7.4	Comprehensive General Liability .................................... 26
7.5	Auto Insurance Reimbursement ....................................... 27
ARTICLE VIII	- MISCELLANEOUS 8.1	Retirement and Severance Pay...................................27
8.2	Other Duties Performed ............................................. 27
8.2	a	Instructional Assistants Used	as	Substitute	Teachers....... 27
8.2	b	Reimbursement of State-Mandated/Required	Tests ............ 28
8.3	Tuition Reimbursement................................................28
•	Eligibility..................................................28
•	Repay Obligation.............................................28
8.4	Clothing Allowance...................................................28
8.5	Uniforms for Maintenance Staff ..................................... 29
8.6	Other Issues by Classification.......................................29
•	Bus Drivers/Assistants.......................................29
•	Staff Development............................................30
•	Secretaries and Assistants...................................30
•	Food Service.................................................30
8.7	Award Program Incentives.............................................30
ARTICLE IX- DURATION
APPENDICES:
Appendix A - Support Employee Salary Scale Appendix B - FCPS Employees Sick Leave Bank-Rules/Procedures Appendix C - Affidavit for Same Sex Domestic Partnership
ii
ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1	MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
In accordance with section 6-505 of The Public School Laws and Bylaws of Maryland, the Board of Education of Frederick County (Board) recognizes the Frederick Association of School Support Employees (FASSE) as the sole and exclusive representative of nonsupervisory educational support employees, as defined herein.
The purpose of this document is to reduce to writing and memorialize the understandings of the parties with respect to salaries, wages, hours, and other working conditions. The document is an understanding between the Frederick County Public School system and the Frederick Association of School Support Employees (FASSE). The signing of these understandings by the parties indicates the intent of the staff to uphold what has been written. This understanding shall be in effect from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2014.
Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Board reserves and retains full rights, authority and discretion in the proper discharge of its duties and responsibilities to control, supervise, and manage the county schools under existing laws, rules, and procedures; to determine the educational policies and programs of the county school system; and to prescribe rules and regulations for the conduct and management of the public school system.
1.2	DEFINITION OF TERMS
A.	The term educational support employee(s), as used in this Agreement, refers to those positions designated by the Board as nonsupervisory educational support in accordance with the requirements of § 6-501 et seq. of the Education Article. The rights, duties, and terms of employment of a nonsupervisory educational support employee temporarily assigned to a supervisory position shall be governed by the supervisory support agreement, but only for the duration of such temporary assignment.
B.	Unit Members - The term "unit members," when used in this Agreement, shall hereinafter refer to all nonsupervisory educational support employees.
C.	Association - Frederick Association of School Support Employees (FASSE).
D.	Board - Board of Education of Frederick County and designated representatives.
E.	Superintendent - The Superintendent of the Frederick County Public Schools or designee.
F.	Seniority - Seniority is defined as the length of all continuous, regular service in the Frederick County Public Schools since last date of hire.
G.	Transfer - A transfer is moving from one job site to another job site at an equivalent pay grade. A job site with multiple buildings is considered one job site.
H.	Grievant - A unit member making the claim.
I.	Grievance - A complaint by an employee, or, in the event of an action affecting Association
rights, the Association, concerning the interpretation, application, or alleged violation of an expressed provision of this Agreement.
1
ARTICLE II
ASSOCIATION/BOARD RELATIONS
2.1	RECOGNITION
The Frederick Association of School Support Employees (FASSE) is recognized as the support employee organization representing nonsupervisory educational support employees in all matters that relate to salaries, wages, hours and other working conditions.
For the duration of this Agreement, the rights and/or privileges enumerated in Article II shall not be granted to any other organization seeking to become the nonsupervisory educational support employees bargaining agent of the nonsupervisory employees.
2.2	NONDISCRIMINATION
Neither the Board nor FASSE shall discriminate against any educational support employee in the application of the terms of this Agreement by reason of nonmembership or membership in FASSE or participation in any of its lawful activities.
The Association and the Board agree that they will not illegally discriminate against any educational support employee on account of race, religion, color, national origin, marital status, gender, age, disability or sexual orientation.
No educational support employee will be prevented from wearing pins or other identifications of membership in FASSE as long as such action does not interfere with the safe conduct of his or her job duties or violate federal and state health and safety standards.
2.3	USE OF FACILITIES/ACCESS TO BUILDINGS
FASSE officers, members and employees will have access to all school buildings and to all educational support employees provided that the exercise of this right in the reasonable view of the administrator/manager will not interfere with effective school operation or the employee's work assignment.
Upon completion of application of the appropriate form by the FASSE president, and approval of the building principal/manager and the facilities planner, FASSE will have the right to use any Board facility without cost at reasonable times.
2.4	BULLETIN BOARDS
The Association building representative and administrator/manager will designate adequate space in each Board building for the purpose of posting FASSE notices, circulars, newsletters, and other FASSE business materials. Copies of such materials will be given to the administrator/manager, but advance approval will not be required.
2.5	COMMUNICATIONS
A.	In compliance with FCPS policy and regulation, all FASSE members will have the right to use the interschool mail/email to distribute official FASSE notices, circulars, newsletters, and all other FASSE approved correspondence. FASSE communications are to be sent during nonwork time and use of the FCPS key communicator distribution lists is not to be used for FASSE-generated information. Lunch or break time is considered non-work time.
B.	The Board shall provide daily courier service to the area designated by the Association as its headquarters as long as said headquarters is on or near an established courier route.
2
C.	The Association may request to be placed on the agenda at all orientation programs for all educational support personnel. The request will not be unreasonably denied.
D.	The Association will have the right to have placed in the packet for all new unit members a letter prepared by the Association which informs said members that the Association is recognized as the exclusive representative for all educational support employees in the Frederick County Public School system.
2.6	PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES
Upon request of the FASSE president, supplies for the organization may be purchased from FCPS.
2.7	SUPPORT EMPLOYEE LISTS
A.	As soon as possible, but no later than August 1 of any fiscal year, the Board shall provide the
Association with a list of all regular nonsupervisory and nonbenefited support employees, which shall include their name, pay location, salary, position, and job title as well as monthly updates of new, retired, resigned, or disabled employees.
B.	The Department of Human Resources will provide FASSE with:
1.	Current support personnel vacancy announcements
2.	A	copy	of	the	food service manual
3.	A	copy	of	the	bus driver’s handbook
4.	A	copy	of	the	current maintenance manual	or	handbook
5.	A	copy	of	the	current operations manual	or handbook
6.	Monthly list of sick leave bank members
7.	Copies of Board policy that affect educational support employees
8.	A nonconfidential staff directory
C.	A copy of this Agreement will be made available to each nonsupervisory support employee in the negotiating unit by the Board.
2.8	FASSE OFFICIALS & BUILDING REPRESENTATIVES
FASSE will provide the Board a list of current FASSE officers, board of directors, and building representatives by October 1. FASSE will update the Board promptly with any changes covered by this paragraph.
The FASSE building representatives will have the right to schedule meetings of the members before or after duty hours. FASSE will obtain approval from managers or principals when requesting to schedule meetings or speak at staff meetings. The request shall not be unreasonably denied.
2.9	BOARD MEETINGS
A copy of the Board agenda will be sent to the FASSE president prior to all Board meetings and the FASSE president will be given copies of the minutes of official Board meetings when they are distributed.
The Association may request and shall be given a place on the agenda of regular Board meetings for brief reports and/or announcements. Upon appropriate request, the president or designee shall be recognized to state the Association’s position when matters relating to wages, salaries, hours, and other working conditions are being discussed.
3
2.10	PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
A.	The Board agrees to deduct from the salaries unified membership dues for Frederick Association of School Support Employees (FASSE), the Maryland State Education Association (MSEA), and the National Education Association (NEA) as said educational support employees individually and voluntarily authorize to deduct through an appropriate written authorization form prepared by the Association and approved by the Human Resources/Finance Departments. The Board agrees to transmit such monies promptly to the Association.
1.	Deductions shall be made in twenty (20) equal installments beginning in September and ending in June of each year. For new enrollees deductions shall be made in sixteen (16) equal installments beginning in November. The Board will not be required to honor any authorizations that are delivered to it later than fifteen (15) working days prior to the distribution of the February payroll.
2.	The Association will certify to the Board in writing the current rate of membership dues. The Association will give the Board thirty (30) days written notice prior to the effective date of any change in the rate of dues.
3.	No later than March 15 of each year, the Board will provide the Association with a list of those educational support employees from whom dues were deducted on the January payroll.
4.	In the event that an educational support employee terminates employment, the Board shall deduct the balance of the unpaid dues for the current membership year from the support employee's final paycheck and transmit these dues promptly to the Association.
B.	Payroll deductions will be made for member contributions to the Maryland State Retirement System.
C.	Payroll deductions are available at the request of the individual for Board approved tax-sheltered annuities, charitable organizations as approved by the Association and the Board, the Frederick County Employee Credit Union, the cost of family insurance coverage, and FASSE-MSEA-NEA voluntary political action contributions (PAC).
2.11	PERSONAL DRESS
Educational support employees of the Frederick County Public School system should dress in a manner which is appropriate for the work to be done in their assigned positions.
2.12	PERSONAL LIFE
The personal life of an educational support employee is not within the appropriate concern or attention of the Board except as it may affect the employee's role and responsibility, and the efficient, safe performance of assigned functions during the workday.
ARTICLE III
EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS
3.1	CATEGORIES OF EMPLOYMENT
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
A.	New educational support employees shall be regarded as probationary employees. This initial probationary period shall extend for one (1) year beginning with the first day of employment. Any
4
absence during the probationary year in excess of twenty (20) days will extend probation by a corresponding number of days. If a probationary employee works beyond a six (6) month period, feedback about performance will be given by the immediate supervisor.
B.	Probationary employees are at-will employees, and may be terminated during the one (1) year probationary period, and still be entitled to the administrative appeal process.
C.	Any action taken by the Superintendent or designee with respect to such employees during the probationary period shall be final. The discipline policy does not impair or limit the Superintendent's authority under this article.
D.	Probationary employees shall not be eligible to belong to the sick leave bank.
E.	Probationary employees will receive a copy of their job description. Educational support employees will be assigned by the Department of Human Resources in cooperation with the respective director, supervisor, or manager and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
F.	Probationary employees are not eligible to apply for vacancies during their probationary period.
REGULAR EMPLOYEES
A.	A regular full-time, twelve-month assignment is a position which has been created by the Board with the anticipation that it will be necessary to maintain the existence of the position on the fulltime year-round basis. The work year for a twelve-month position begins July 1 of one year and ends on June 30 of the following year.
B.	A regular full-time, ten-month assignment is a position which has been created by the Board with the anticipation that it will be necessary to maintain the existence of the position during the months schools are in session for students.
C.	A regular part-time assignment is a position less than full-time. If a support employee works 50% or more of the normal work week of a person in their particular position, such educational support employee is eligible for all benefits offered to full-time educational support employees.
D.	An assignment letter shall be issued to each educational support employee on an annual basis. Also, an assignment letter shall be issued any time a change of employment status occurs.
E.	The assignment letter shall include the following: employee’s location, hourly rate of pay, yearly salary, grade and step on pay scale, and total hours worked per year.
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
A.	Temporary employment assignments are created as needed and expected to be of brief duration not to exceed one assignment year. Temporary employees are considered at-will and may be terminated at any time without cause and are not entitled to leave benefits, retirement membership, or insurance coverage. When an employee’s temporary position is extended to a second consecutive year of employment, it will be included in the Superintendent’s yearly budget as a regular benefited position and subject to adoption and contingent on final funding of the Board’s budget.
B.	FASSE is providing notice that effective July 1, 2011, all past agreements, memorandums, and practices regarding temporary employees shall be considered null and void, which includes but is not limited to special education instructional assistants, food service, and temporary employee positions.
5
3.2	EVALUATION
Support employees shall be evaluated on evaluation forms consistent within their classification by the appropriate first-line supervisor:
A.	Purpose - The parties agree that the primary purposes of the evaluation process are to identify
and improve employee performance by utilizing assessment procedures coupled with recommendations for improvement.
B.	With the exception outlined in “C,” educational support employees shall be evaluated at least
annually prior to the end of the employee’s school year. Evaluations will be completed in accordance with the following timelines, unless extenuating circumstances exist:
■	10-month	employees	by	June 1
■	11-month	employees	by	July 1
■	12-month	employees	by	August	1
Evaluations may be deferred when an employee has worked less than half of the school year. The evaluation process will be communicated to employees upon being hired. Supervisory personnel will be trained concerning the evaluation process.
C.	Educational support employees working in the same assignment for at least three (3)
consecutive years who have satisfactory performance may be evaluated every other year at the discretion of the supervisor.
D.	The evaluation form must be signed by the educational support employee (to indicate receipt),
and by the evaluator. The educational support employee shall be given a copy of the completed evaluation form. The educational support employee may request a conference to discuss the evaluation prior to placement of the evaluation in the personnel file.
E.	Comments - The employee shall have the right to attach any comments he/she wants to attach
to the evaluation materials and if the employee declines to sign acknowledging that he/she has read the evaluation, it will be placed in the file with a statement to that effect.
F . When an employee is subject to feedback regarding performance or any other work-related matter, no employee shall be disciplined or communicated with in a disrespectful or unprofessional manner.
3.3	DISCIPLINARY ACTION - NOTIFICATION
Employees subject to discipline of suspension without pay or discharge shall be provided notice of the charges including the rationale of the decision. The employee will be provided an opportunity to respond and will have the right to representation at the hearing/meeting where disciplinary action is being issued. The employee may appeal such action with union representation pursuant to §4-205(c) of the Education Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland.
3.4	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
GRIEVANCE - A complaint by an employee, or, in the event of an action affecting Association rights, the Association, concerning the interpretation, application, or alleged violation of an expressed provision of this Agreement.
PURPOSE - The purpose of this procedure is to secure, at the lowest possible level, equitable solution to the problems which may, from time to time, arise affecting educational support employees. Both parties agree that these proceedings will be kept as informal and confidential as may be appropriate at any level of the procedure.
6
A.	An educational support employee, including a probationary employee, who elects to grieve or
file a complaint alleging violation of the Agreement, shall proceed under this section.
B.	Grievance forms shall be developed jointly by the Superintendent and FASSE.
C.	The employee shall have the assistance of a member of FASSE as a representative in steps 2,
3,	and 4 if the employee chooses. The member may use Association and/or personal leave to serve as the employee's representative. The employee may have the assistance of affiliate's legal counsel as a representative in step 4.
D.	Witnesses required by the school system to testify at a grievance hearing conducted during the
employee's normal working hours will be given time off without loss of pay.
E.	Grievance Process
Step 1. Informal Review
An educational support employee with a grievance shall first discuss it with the principal or immediate supervisor directly, the objective being an informal resolution of the matter. The employee shall request an informal meeting with the person who is the immediate supervisor within ten (10) working days, of the grievable event. The immediate supervisor must hold an informal meeting with the employee within three (3) working days of the request. The immediate supervisor shall respond to the employee within five (5) working days of the meeting.
Step 2. Formal Review
If the employee is not satisfied, or if no decision is rendered within five (5) working days of the meeting, the employee may obtain further formal review by filing a completed grievance form with the immediate supervisor. Such grievance must be in writing and must state specifically that this grievance procedure is being invoked. This filing must be received by the immediate supervisor within five (5) working days of the immediate supervisor's response or, if there is no response from the immediate supervisor, within ten (10) working days of the initial request for an informal meeting. The immediate supervisor shall hold a hearing within five (5) working days of receipt of the written grievance and render a written decision within five (5) working days of the hearing. The educational support employee may appear alone or with a representative from the Association.
Step 3. Appeal
If the employee is not satisfied, or if no decision is rendered within five (5) working days of the hearing, the employee may obtain further review by appealing the matter to the manager/director of the division. The director will involve intermediate levels of supervisors not considered in step 1 or step 2, and the senior human resources manager. This appeal must be in writing and received by the director of the division within five (5) working days of the immediate supervisor's response or, if there is no response from the immediate supervisor, within ten (10) working days of the date of the appeal filed under step 2. The director of the division shall hold a hearing within five (5) working days of receipt of the appeal and render a written decision within five (5) working days of the hearing.
Step 4. Final Appeal
If the employee is not satisfied, or if no decision is rendered within five (5) working days of the request, the employee may obtain further review by appealing the matter to the Superintendent. This appeal must be in writing and received by the Superintendent within five (5) working days of the step 3 response or, if there is no response within ten (10) working days of the appeal filed under step 3. The Superintendent shall hold a hearing within ten (10) working days of receipt of the appeal and render a written decision within ten (10) working days of the hearing.
7
Step 5. Arbitration
If the aggrieved person is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at step 4, or if no decision has been rendered within ten (10) working days after the grievance was received by the Superintendent, the unit member may, within fifteen (15) working days after receipt by the Superintendent, request, in writing that the Association submit the grievance to arbitration. If the Association determines that the grievance has merit, it may submit the grievance to arbitration no later than forty (40) days after receipt by the Superintendent. If the Association fails to serve such notice of its intention to arbitrate within this time limitation, the grievance shall be considered settled. No individual employee shall have the right to invoke this arbitration procedure.
Selection of Arbitrator
1.	If the Association and the Board are unable to agree upon the selection of an arbitrator within seven (7) calendar days after the Association's notice of an appeal to arbitration, the Association shall submit the grievance to arbitration under the Voluntary Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.
2.	The jurisdiction of the arbitrator shall be confined to the express provision(s) of this Agreement at issue between the Association and the Board. The arbitrator shall have no authority to modify any provision, or to hear or decide on more than one grievance without the mutual consent of the Board and Association. The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding on the grievant, the Association, and the Board.
3.	The Association and the Board shall each bear their own expenses and share the cost of the arbitrator.
F.	The timeliness in this section for filing requests for informal meetings and appeals and for the
convening of hearings and rendering decisions may be extended only at the mutual consent of the grievant, FASSE, and the Board designee.
G.	The Board and the Association will jointly schedule grievance hearings which are mutually
convenient. No reprisals of any kind shall be taken by the Board or by any member of the administration against any aggrieved person, any representative, any member of the Association, or any other participant in the grievance procedure by reason of such participation.
All documents, communications, and records dealing with the processing of a grievance shall be filed in a separate grievance file and shall not be kept in the personnel file of any of the participants.
Forms for filing grievances, serving notices, making appeals, making reports and recommendations, and other necessary documents shall be prepared jointly by the superintendent or designee and the Association.
All meetings and hearings under this procedure shall not be conducted in public and shall include only the grievant(s), the principal or supervisor, the Superintendent, their designated representatives and relevant witnesses.
3.5	PERSONNEL FILE
Material of a negative or derogatory nature must be shown personally to the educational support employee prior to placement in his or her personnel file. The file copy must be signed by the educational support employee to indicate that the employee has seen it.
An educational support employee shall have the right to place a signed, dated response to any derogatory material placed in his or her personnel file.
8
Educational support employees have the right, by appointment, to review materials in their personnel files. This review shall not include confidential material such as reference letters, or information received in the course of initial employment. Educational support employees can have an officer of FASSE present during the review.
Material related to the grievance procedure will not be placed in the educational support employee's personnel file except as the grievance decisions affect the employee's terms or conditions of employment or if agreed to by the employee.
When termination of an educational support employee occurs, no documents or other materials of a negative nature except those that relate to the reasons for termination shall be placed in the personnel file of said employee.
3.6	ANNOUNCEMENT OF VACANCIES
In the event there is an opening for a regular position within the unit, the Board will post notices of such vacancies for a period of at least five (5) workdays on appropriate bulletin boards.
The hiring process of all new and vacant positions shall be advertised for five (5) workdays. A unit member desiring to be considered for a vacancy must apply for the specific vacancy by the specific deadline. In determining the selection of the successful candidate, the Board will consider such qualifications as: skills, abilities, experience, length of service, and overall needs of the school system. The intent of this language is to ensure a fair and consistent hiring practice in hiring the best qualified candidate and in no way is meant to compromise the legal right of the Superintendent to hire personnel as the needs of the school system may require.
The Board encourages qualified internal candidates to apply for vacancies.
3.7	VOLUNTARY TRANSFERS
A.	Unit members who desire a voluntary lateral transfer are required to submit a Transfer Request form to the Human Resources Support Office between January 1 and June 30 of each year to take effect the following school year. The transfer list will remain in effect for a period of one (1) school year or until exhausted.
B.	Eligibility
Non-probationary unit members are eligible for one (1) transfer during the identified school year.
Probationary employees hired during the identified school year may be placed on the following year’s transfer list provided they have completed at least one (1) year of service on or before June 30 and have satisfactory work performance.
C.	In determining the selection of the successful candidate, the Board will consider such qualifications as: skills, abilities, length of service, and the overall needs of the school system. The intent of this language is to ensure a fair and consistent practice in transferring the best qualified candidate and is in no way meant to compromise the legal right of the Superintendent to transfer personnel as the needs of the school system require.
D.	The increase in time of a part-time support employee to a full-time position on the same pay schedule at the same job site or transfer within the same department is not considered a transfer provided that the new position is essentially the same as the current assignment.
9
E.	Educational support employees who have been transferred involuntarily are not limited in their eligibility for a transfer or promotion.
F.	A support employee temporarily assigned to a higher paying position for more than ten (10) consecutive workdays will be paid for the eleventh day, and any subsequent consecutive day, in accordance with 4.3.A.
3.8	INVOLUNTARY TRANSFERS
A.	The Superintendent or designee may involuntarily transfer employees, as the needs of the schools require.
Generally, an employee will receive in writing ten (10) days in advance that they will be involuntarily transferred. If requested, the employee, within five (5) days, will be given the reasons for the transfer.
B.	Where it is necessary to select a unit member for transfer where a transfer has not been requested and the transfer results from a reduction in the number of employees in a program or at a worksite, the following criteria may be considered. Such criteria are to ensure a fair and consistent practice and is in no way meant to compromise the legal right of the Superintendent to transfer personnel as the needs of the school system require.
1.	Volunteers may first be sought from that work location.
2.	Unless deemed essential to an assignment based on skills and abilities, any
probationary unit member(s) assigned to that location in the unit member assignment affected may be selected, with the least senior probationary unit member being transferred first.
3.	Should the previous steps not satisfy the required number of transfers, the senior human
resources manager may select individuals to be transferred and consider skills, abilities, and length of service.
4.	Unit members designated as involuntary transfers may be reassigned ahead of unit
members requesting voluntary transfers, unit members returning from leaves of absence without pay, or new hires in the affected category.
3.9	PROMOTIONS
A promotion is a change to a higher hourly rate from the previous position. In determining the selection of the successful candidate, the Board will consider such qualifications as: skills, abilities, experience, length of service and overall needs of the school system. The intent of this language is to ensure a fair and consistent promotional practice in promoting the best-qualified candidate and in no way is meant to compromise the legal right of a Superintendent to promote educational support personnel.
When a position becomes available that would cause a promotional opportunity within a particular department, that position may be filled by a qualified regular employee in that particular department as determined by the manager.
Employees selected and interviewed for promotional positions shall receive notification of the outcome within ten (10) working days of when the job is accepted by the successful candidate.
10
3.10	BUS DRIVER TRANSFER REQUESTS
When bus drivers request to make a lateral move for route selection, the Board will consider such qualifications as skills, abilities, experience, seniority, a safe and suitable location to park the bus, which is within reasonable distance of the route, and the overall needs of the school system.
The intent of this language is to ensure a fair and consistent practice in transferring the best-qualified candidate and in no way is meant to compromise the legal right of the Superintendent to transfer educational support personnel.
3.11	REDUCTION IN FORCE
The Board decides which positions and budget category(ies) will be affected by a reduction in force. Absent extenuating circumstances, the Board will provide affected employees and the Association thirty (30) days’ notice of its intent to layoff employees.
Prior to any layoff or reduction in force, a seniority list will be developed.
Seniority as used in this section shall mean seniority based on continuous benefited employment within the Frederick County Public School system.
If two (2) or more support employees have the same length of service, they shall be ranked in order of their first day of continuous regular employment and then, if necessary, by lot.
Temporary and probationary employees in the affected category will be separated before any regular employees are reduced.
The reduction of permanent employees within an affected category shall be made after consideration of an employee's seniority, work performance, skills and abilities.
Interruption of service - Seniority shall continue to accumulate while an educational support employee is on an approved leave of absence or on layoff of less than one (1) year.
Regular food service employees employed prior to July 1, 1993, will not be reduced in hours or salary in the last three (3) years prior to retirement, as verified by the Human Resources Department. It is understood that it may be necessary to involuntarily transfer the food service employee in order to fulfill this commitment. This benefit applies only as long as the employee continues to maintain employment with the school system and does not impair or affect the school system's authority to institute a reduction in force or terminate for other reasons such as performance or conduct.
When food service work hours must be reduced, volunteers willing to work fewer hours will be sought before support employees are transferred.
3.12	RECALL
Educational support employees who are laid off due to a reduction in force will be placed on a recall list and will be recalled based on the date of layoff. The most recently laid off employees will be the first to return. Only those persons who are qualified will be considered for a given vacancy.
Educational support employees who have been laid off will remain on the recall list for a period of one (1) year. If any of those on the list declines a job offer, he/she will be removed from the recall list.
An individual who is offered recall must indicate within seventy-two (72) hours after being notified whether or not he/she accepts the position offered and must be available to return to work within thirty (30) days.
11
During a period of layoff, no individual will be hired to fill a position of any grade and qualification of an individual on layoff unless such person declines the recall or is no longer on the recall list.
Unit members recalled under these provisions shall have restored to them all previously accrued sick leave and personal leave. Uncompensated annual leave will also be restored to twelve-month employees, if restored to a twelve-month position.
The Board and the Association recognize that appropriate governmental agencies which have jurisdiction may promulgate rulings and/or regulations that may impact this section. If such rulings or regulations cause any provisions to be in conflict, the parties shall meet within ten (10) days for the purpose of renegotiating only the provision(s) held to be contrary.
3.13	SEVERANCE OF EMPLOYMENT
RETIREMENT
An educational support employee desiring to retire shall send to the appropriate supervisor and the senior human resources manager a written statement of retirement specifying the retirement date.
The senior human resources manager shall confer with the retiring educational support employee and offer assistance to the educational support employee in completing the required forms for retirement. The senior human resources manager shall notify FASSE of educational support employee retirements. Requests for confidentiality of retirement decisions of employees will be honored.
Exceptions may be granted for extenuating circumstances by the Human Resources Department.
3.14	DUTIES
Written job descriptions shall be available to the educational support employee by contacting the Human Resources Department. Any changes to existing job descriptions will be communicated to the impacted employee and to FASSE.
3.15	WORK SCHEDULE
A.	WORK WEEK
1.	The work week for full-time instructional assistants, secretaries, clerical support, and user support specialist employees is thirty-five (35) hours. However, adjustments to the work week schedules may be made to support the needs of the program or department.
2.	The work week for full-time custodial, maintenance, inspectors, printing department, and warehousing support employees is forty (40) hours. However, adjustments to the work week schedules may be made to support the needs of the program or department.
3.	The work week for full-time school bus drivers and bus assistants is forty (40) hours.
4.	The work week for full-time food service employees is:
Food	Service Employee	35	hours
Food	Service Site Assistant	35	hours
Food	Service Assistant Manager	35	hours
Satellite Drivers	35	hours
Food	Coordinator	35	hours
12
B.
WORK YEAR
1.	Unless otherwise stated, the work year for ten-month employees is one hundred eightyeight (188) days. Additional workdays beyond 188 will be compensated at a per diem rate.
2.	The work year for ten-month secretaries and instructional assistants is one hundred eighty-nine (189) days.
3.	The work year for most twelve-month secretaries, clerical, and printing support employees is two hundred forty-three (243) days.
4.	The parties shall meet and negotiate prior to making any permanent changes to the work year.
5.	The work year for full-time custodial, operations, maintenance, inspectors, and warehousing support employees is two hundred sixty (260) days.
6.	The work year for full-time school bus drivers and bus assistants is the same as student days.
7.	The work year for a full-time vehicle mechanic is two hundred sixty (260) days.
8.	The work year for full-time food service* employees is:
Food	Service Employee	182	days
Food	Service Site Assistant	182	days
Food	Service Assistant Manager	183	days
Satellite Drivers	182	days
Food	Service Driver	188	or 260 days
Food	Coordinator	208	days
* Food service employees shall be compensated at their hourly rate if called in during the summer break.
9.	The Board may assign employees additional workdays beyond the work year to be compensated on a per diem basis.
3.16	HAZARDOUS WORK CONDITIONS
The Board agrees that it shall make every effort to maintain safe, sanitary, healthful working conditions and shall comply with state and federal regulations pertaining to such issues.
Should an employee feel that a safety problem exists, he/she should report it immediately to his/her immediate supervisor. An inspection will be made as soon as possible. The employee involved shall be advised of the results of the inspection. The Board will continue to provide and maintain safety equipment and stress the importance of safe conditions.
3.17	BREAKS AND LUNCH
Unless otherwise mutually agreed upon between the supervisor and the food service employee, food service employees who work at least five and one-half (5.5) hours per day or more shall be provided a continuous, uninterrupted, 30-minute, duty-free lunch. Lunch schedules may be adjusted when emergencies arise. A place, where possible, away from the work station will be provided for a duty-free lunch. All food service employees are entitled to a lunch or any component of a daily menu at the cost of the meal components. The food should be consumed on site and should not be removed from the building. This will not remove an optional food item for students.
All nonsupervisory educational support employees working four (4) or more consecutive hours daily shall be provided one 15-minute break and employees who work seven and one-half (7.5) hours or
13
more daily shall be entitled to a second 15-minute break during the day (see chart below). The scheduling of this break will be at the discretion of the manager or designee with the limitation that it must be scheduled during the duty day. In the event of an emergency, breaks may be denied. Employees may not use break time to adjust the start and end times of their daily work schedule.
# OF HOURS	LUNCH TIME (UNPAID)	BREAK TIME (PAID)	TOTAL TIME @ WORK
4+	ONE 30-MINUTE DUTY FREE	ONE 15-MINUTE	4.5 HRS @ WORK
7	ONE 30-MINUTE DUTY FREE	ONE15-MINUTE	7.5 HRS. @ WORK
7.5+	ONE 30-MINUTE DUTY FREE	TWO 15-MINUTE	8.0 HRS. @ WORK
ARTICLE IV WAGES
4.1	SALARY SCHEDULES
As of July 1, 2011, all pay scales herein shall remain the same as the July 2010 pay scales. The 201112 Support Employee Salary Scale is attached as Appendix A.
Salary compensation for all employees shall be paid by direct deposit to a financial institution designated by the employee.
The same percentage cost of living, educational support employee increment, and equivalent percentage of augmentation, granted to FCTA will be applied to the existing educational support salary scales.
NOTE:	For the 2011-12 school year, employees will not be eligible to receive an increment.
For the 2011-12 school year, active employees may elect to cash in three (3) days of either annual, personal, or sick leave days at the equivalent of per diem rate of pay.
Requests must be received on or before November 1 for a November 30 disbursement or on or before April 1 for an April 30 disbursement and may only be requested one time per fiscal year.
All ten-month unit members will have the option of being paid in either twenty (20) installments or twenty-four (24) installments. All twelve-month unit members will be paid in twenty-four (24) installments.
1.	In the event of unusual circumstances, a ten-month unit member who has elected to be paid the salary in twenty-four (24) installments may elect to have the balance due in the June paycheck. The request shall be submitted in writing fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled pay date.
2.	Distribution of paychecks shall be on the 15th, or the nearest preceding workday, and the last workday of each month.
4.2	OVERTIME
All overtime must be authorized in advance by the administrator responsible for the budgeted account, except in an emergency. All hours worked up to forty (40) hours per week shall be
14
compensated at the regular rate of pay. Time and one-half will be paid or compensatory time granted at the employee’s regular rate of pay for hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
For purposes of calculating overtime, time taken for annual, sick, or holiday leave is not counted toward the forty (40) hours. In the event of emergency or unforeseen circumstances, an educational support employee called to work outside his or her regular work day shall be compensated for a minimum of two (2) hours at the rate of time and one-half regardless of any leave taken that week if the time period for which he/she is called to work is not an extension of his/her regular workday or an extension of the beginning or ending time of his/her shift. This applies only to the first time called each day.
If additional work hours are necessary at the beginning or ending time of a regular shift when the educational support employee would normally work, he/she will be paid only for the actual time worked providing the hours do not exceed forty (40) hours per week.
Any work on a holiday shall be compensated at time and one-half the hourly rate of pay.
If an employee is scheduled to work on a Saturday or Sunday to provide support to an event scheduled by an outside organization, time and one-half will be paid if actual hours worked exceed forty (40) hours or if a holiday occurs during the regularly scheduled work week.
If funding is available at the employee’s work site, the employee may request to receive time and one-half pay or compensatory time at time and one-half. Employees will have up to thirty (30) days to use any of their earned comp time from the day that they earned it.
4.2	a ALLOCATION
Opportunities within a particular school or at a work site to work overtime will be offered among the employees in the classification who are qualified, so that each employee has as equal an opportunity as possible for earning overtime hours.
4.3	SALARY ASSIGNMENT IN A PROMOTION
A. When an employee is promoted to a higher grade, the employee will be placed on the new grade in accordance with the following:
1.	The employee shall be placed on the new grade at the next highest salary to his/her current salary, providing the increase is at least 6%.
2.	If the next highest step on the new grade does not equal at least 6%, the employee shall be placed at the next step on the new grade.
In the event of a demotion, the above process is reversed (i.e., employee will be placed on a new step and grade with decrease up to 6% varying with the number of grade reductions which are involved in the demotion).
4.4	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT IN HIGHER CLASSIFICATION
A support employee temporarily assigned to a higher paying position for more than ten (10) consecutive days will be paid the higher rate retroactive to day one (1) of the assignment until the temporary assignment ends. The employee will be placed on the new grade and step with a minimum increase of 6% to the overall hourly salary.
15
4.5	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
A.	FCPS benefited employees regularly scheduled to work during the hours of a qualifying shift shall be paid a shift differential.
B.	A qualifying shift means a permanent full-time or permanent part-time shift that starts between designated time periods of 2:00 p.m. and 1:00 a.m.
C.	A qualifying shift should not be confused with a benefited employee’s work schedule, which is defined as the actual hours a benefited employee is scheduled to work.
D.	The following work schedules are defined as qualifying for shift differential because they fall within the designated time periods of a qualifying shift.
•	Benefited employees who work a second or third shift for ten (10) months but transfer to the first shift during the summer.
•	Second shifts that start at or after 2:00 p.m. will be paid a shift differential of $588 per fiscal year divided into twenty-four (24) pay periods.
•	Third shifts that start at or after 10:00 p.m. will be paid a shift differential of $672 per fiscal year divided into twenty-four (24) pay periods.
E.	A benefited employee who continues to work the second or third shift during the summer vacation months of June, July, and August will be compensated at a shift differential rate of $728 each fiscal year for second shift and $832 each fiscal year for third shift. The shift differential compensation will be annualized and divided over twenty-four (24) pay periods.
F.	FCPS will not pay a shift differential for a benefited employee whose work schedule does not start within the designated time periods of the qualifying shift unless otherwise approved by the building principal and senior human resources manager.
G.	A benefited employee who works the second shift and is paid a shift differential will continue to be paid the same shift differential even if the work schedule extends into the third shift, which is paid at a higher shift differential.
H.	If a benefited employee is assigned to second or third shift and it is not their regularly scheduled shift, in order to receive a shift differential, said benefited employee must work second or third shift ten (10) consecutive workdays and compensation will be retroactive to the first day of the assignment. This payment will be processed by the senior human resources manager.
I.	If a benefited employee is permanently reassigned to a nonqualifying shift during the fiscal year,
all shift differential payments will end beginning with the first pay period after the reassignment.
ARTICLE V
HOLIDAYS
All nonsupervisory educational support employees whose work schedules include the following days should be entitled to the following duty-free days:
January 1
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
Presidents' Day
Friday before Easter
Memorial Day
July 4
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day and the day after
December 24
December 25
16
When a holiday falls on a Saturday or a Sunday, the Friday before or the Monday following the holiday shall be taken as a holiday, as determined by the Board. If an employee works on any of the abovelisted holidays, he/she shall be paid time and one-half the hourly rate.
ARTICLE VI
LEAVE PROVISIONS
6.1	NOTIFICATION
Normally, all leave will be requested and approved in advance. In the event that such notice is not practical, the employee shall notify his or her immediate supervisor one (1) hour in advance when he or she cannot be at work. Annual or personal leave must be approved in advance. Reasonable periods of restricted leave may be established by departments within the Frederick County Public School system. Notification of this restriction will be given to the employees within these departments in advance. The type of leave being requested should be stated when reporting an absence.
6.2	LEAVES WITH PAY
6.2	a	SICK LEAVE
A.	During the first year of employment in the Frederick County Public Schools, and during each successive year thereafter, each regular ten-month educational support employee of the Board shall be entitled to ten (10) days sick leave, the unused portion of which shall be accumulative. Twelve-month educational support employees shall be entitled to twelve (12) days sick leave, the unused portion of which shall be accumulative. Sick leave may be taken in one (1) hour increments. Such requests will not be unreasonably denied.
B.	Educational support employees who draw upon their accumulated sick leave will have the number of days used deducted from their total days accumulated. Educational support employees whose sick leave has been exhausted and who have been employed by the system for five (5) years or more may request that the Board consider advancing ten (10) days beyond their annual allotment (total of twenty [20] days) for one (1) year only.
Educational support employees will not be eligible to request and receive this grant more than once within a five (5) year period.
C.	Requests for sick leave from educational support employees because of illness in the family shall be construed to mean the illness of a member of the immediate household. Immediate household is limited to the same permanent residence as the employee requesting the leave. Educational support employees may request up to five (5) days of sick leave per year for the qualified illness of their parent or child not living in the immediate household. A qualified illness is a documented illness or infirmity that requires inpatient care in a hospital, hospice, or residential medical care facility. Additionally, the executive director of human resources shall authorize upon request and receipt of acceptable documentation the one-time use per eligible family member, by an educational support employee of accrued sick leave up to thirty (30) days, in the event that the educational support employee’s parent or child living out of the immediate household is diagnosed with a terminal condition. Other sick leave requests for members of the family not living in the immediate household or in excess of that permitted for a parent or child shall be processed as personal leave.
D.	Support employees who resign in good standing and return within two (2) years of their resignation date shall have all previous unused sick leave restored.
E.	The sick leave bank committee, appointed by the president of the Association, shall have the responsibility of receiving requests, verifying the validity of requests, recommending approval
17
or denial of the request, and communicating its decision to the member and the senior human resources manager. The committee shall develop its rules of procedures and shall give wide distribution of said rules upon approval of the executive committee of the Association and the Superintendent.
F.	Upon receipt of the decision of the sick leave bank committee, the senior human resources manager shall verify that the request is within the limits of the bank balance, that the applicant’s accumulated sick leave has been exhausted, and that the applicant’s illness is prolonged, catastrophic, incapacitating and personal. The decision of the sick leave bank committee shall be approved by the senior human resources manager unless the decision of the sick leave bank committee is arbitrary or capricious. Upon issuance of such approval, the senior human resources manager shall forward the sick leave grant to the Payroll Department.
G.	Any disputes arising from the article shall be expedited through the grievance procedure provided herein, except that the American Arbitration Association’s expedited labor arbitration rules shall govern the proceedings.
6.2b SICK LEAVE BANK
The sick leave bank rules and procedures will govern the administration of the sick leave bank for the duration of this Agreement. FASSE will have until April 30th of each subsequent year to submit the sick leave bank rules and procedures for a word-by-word review by its counsel. The sick leave bank rules and procedures are attached to this agreement as Appendix B.
6.2c ANNUAL LEAVE
Full-time twelve-month educational support personnel employees shall have ten (10) working days annual leave entitlement through their fifth year of employment with the Board.
Beginning in the sixth year of employment, such employees shall receive fifteen (15) working days annual leave. Employees beginning the eleventh year or above shall receive twenty (20) working days annual leave.
Requests for annual leave for educational support employees are to be approved by the building principal for school-based staff. Requests for annual leave for nonschool-based staff are to be approved by the immediate supervisor. Advance notice may be required. Annual leave may be taken in one (1) hour increments. Such requests will not be unreasonably denied.
Annual leave may be accumulated not to exceed forty (40) working days. Any days beyond forty (40) will be converted to sick leave days.
6.2d TEMPORARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITH PAY
Educational support employees shall be entitled to temporary leaves of absence with full pay each school year as noted below.
6.2e PERSONAL LEAVE
A.	All regular educational support employees serving in ten-month and twelve-month positions shall be credited annually with three (3) days of personal leave. Educational support employees shall request prior approval from their immediate supervisor in writing of the intent to use such leave, except in the case of emergency, when such prior notice cannot be given.
18
B.	Except when approved by the Superintendent or designee, personal leave shall not be used on the following days:
1.	The	day before or after:
a)	a day when schools are closed for students during the school year, or
b)	an inservice day;
2.	Parent conference days;	or
3.	The	beginning of the ten-month employee work year; or
4.	During the last two (2) days of the ten-month employee work year.
Consideration will be given to the overall impact of the educational program and delivery of services prior to granting approval. Specifically, the Superintendent or designee shall also take into consideration the availability of substitutes, if applicable, and the number of past requests from that particular individual plus whether this request represents an emergency when the individual has been approved for the exception in the past.
C.	Unused personal days may be accumulated to a maximum of ten (10) days. Unused personal leave in excess of ten (10) days shall be credited to accumulated sick leave. Personal leave may be taken in one (1) hour increments. Such requests will not be unreasonably denied.
6.2	f JURY DUTY/LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Each educational support employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence with full pay for the time served for jury duty and the time necessary for appearances in any legal proceeding connected with employment. If an employee is notified of dismissal from jury duty, it is an expectation that the employee report to work as scheduled, if the time coincides with his/her regularly scheduled workday.
6.2	g BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
A.	Up to five (5) workdays at any one time in the event of the death of an educational support employee's spouse, child, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, parent, father-in-law, mother-in-law, sibling, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, and those who stand in the same status as determined by the executive director of human resources. Except in unusual circumstances, days will be used consecutively.
B.	An educational support employee will be granted up to three (3) workdays at any one time in the event of the death of a support employee's grandfather or grandmother, grandfather-in-law, grandmother-in-law, aunt, uncle and those who stand in the same status as determined by the executive director of human resources. Except in unusual circumstances, days will be used consecutively.
C.	An educational support employee will be granted one (1) workday in the event of the death of a niece or nephew.
D.	In the case of miscarriage of a child, and issuance of a death certificate, bereavement leave will be allowed for eligible educational support employees as outlined in Board regulation for death of a child or grandchild.
6.2h PROFESSIONAL LEAVE/ASSOCIATION LEAVE
A.	Professional Leave (voluntary professional meetings and conferences)
Educational support staff professional leave is defined as any in-county or out-of-county voluntary meeting or conference related to the employee's job. A bank of thirty (30) leave days per year is provided. Educational support staff professional leave requests require the approval of the director of the department and the senior human resources manager.
19
B.	Association Leave
1.	The Association officers and/or representatives shall be permitted to draw upon thirty (30) workdays leave for Association activities and convention attendance without loss of pay.
2.	Association leave may be taken in one (1) hour increments. Unless an emergency
arises, requests must be made at least three (3) days in advance.
3.	Association leave is monitored by the senior human resources manager and the
president of FASSE.
4.	When an educational support employee is requested to attend a meeting with the Superintendent, assistant or associate superintendent or a director, the employee may do so without loss of pay.
6.2i ASSAULT/BATTERY LEAVE
An educational support employee of the Board who is absent due to physical disability that results from an assault while in the scope of Board employment shall be kept on full-pay status instead of sick leave during the period of the absence. The educational support employee must submit the proper leave request to his or her immediate supervisor stating the reasons for the request, the time desired and a physician's statement.
6.2j RELIGIOUS OBSERVANCE
If the religious observance requires absence from work, an employee may use: (1) personal leave; (2) one day of leave without pay, provided that advance approval of the executive director of human resources is obtained; and/or (3) with approval of the principal/supervisor, two days of leave with pay, provided that the employee makes up the time during the same fiscal year as approved by the principal/supervisor. A written agreement between the ten-month employee and the supervisor, made prior to the leave day, will stipulate how and when the employee’s time will be made up. If the employee does not make the time up within the fiscal year, the employee’s pay will be docked.
6.2k SABBATICAL LEAVE
A.	The purpose of sabbatical leave is to enable an educational support employee to pursue an activity that would benefit the school system in obtaining teacher certification.
B.	Upon recommendation of the Superintendent, sabbatical leave will be granted up to five applicants per year. Requests for sabbatical leave must be received in writing by the Superintendent between July 1 and December 1 of the preceding year for which the leave is requested. All applications will receive equal consideration regardless of when submitted within the above time frame.
C.	No applicant with an unsatisfactory rating on the prior year’s evaluation will be considered.
D.	To be eligible, an educational support employee must have completed six (6) full years of active service in the Frederick County school system. An educational support employee who has completed a sabbatical will be considered only after applicants who have not had a sabbatical.
E.	An applicant who intends to study must register for a minimum of 12 semester hours per semester unless an exception is granted by the executive director of human resources. When the sabbatical is completed, the educational support employee shall present to the executive director of human resources adequate verification of the work or experience completed.
20
F.	An educational support employee on sabbatical leave for either one-half of the school year or for the full school year, will be paid by the Board at 50% of the salary rate which the employee would have received if the employee had remained on active duty provided that the educational support employee agrees to return to employment with the Frederick County Public School system for a period of one (1) year. Should the educational support employee not return to the service of the Board, the educational support employee will be required to refund the salary granted for the sabbatical leave.
G.	Upon return from sabbatical leave, the educational support employee will be placed on the salary schedule at the level which the educational support employee would have achieved had the employee remained actively employed in the school system during the period of absence.
6.3 LEAVES WITHOUT PAY
All leaves without pay requests for educational support employees require the approval of the senior human resources manager. Such leave may be approved only once each fiscal year.
6.3a MILITARY LEAVE
Military leave without pay will be granted to any support employee who is inducted or enlists in any branch of the Armed Forces of the United States for the period of said induction or enlistment, or to the spouse of a support employee who is so inducted, or who enlists, or is called to duty to join the support employee for the period of special training in preparation for duty. The Board will enforce rights for employees under current federal legislation concerning military leave and will consider requests by individuals for leave that extends beyond federal law.
6.3b MATERNITY LEAVE
If an educational support employee does not desire to return to her former position as soon as she is physically able to do so following the birth of a child, the Board will grant the educational support employee a leave without pay for the remainder of the calendar year. A leave request for this purpose must be received by the Department of Human Resources by the end of the sixth (6th) month of the pregnancy, except in an emergency. Such requests shall be accompanied by a physician's statement of the date of the expected birth.
At the end of the calendar year, a request may be made in writing to extend the leave without pay for a second calendar year.
6.3c ADOPTION LEAVE
Requests for adoption leave without pay, not to exceed one (1) year, must be made as soon as possible prior to the beginning date of such leave, except in case of emergency. The written request will include a copy of the adoption papers of the child to be adopted.
After one (1) year, a request may be made in writing to extend the leave for a second year.
6.3d PATERNITY LEAVE
With at least ninety (90) days notice, an educational support employee will be granted paternity leave without pay not to exceed one (1) year.
6.3e PUBLIC OFFICE LEAVE
The Board will grant a leave of absence, without pay, not to exceed four (4) consecutive years to any educational support employee not previously receiving such leave to campaign for, or serve in, a public office.
21
6.3	f PERSONAL DISABILITY LEAVE
Personal disability leave is available to educational support employees who are not eligible for leave under the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA).
A temporary leave of absence, without pay, due to personal disability is available to educational support employees not eligible for FMLA under the following conditions:
•	Written medical verification of the disability shall be submitted by the educational support employee to the executive director of Human Resources on the appropriate form.
•	The Department of Human Resources shall establish the specific leave time for each support employee in accordance with the nature of the disability. Normally, the time shall not exceed two months, although exceptions may be granted by the Department of Human Resources.
•	Health and life insurance premiums shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.1.
6.4	LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
An educational support employee may take personal leave or annual leave (with advanced approval) or leave without pay for the time necessary for appearance in a legal proceeding in which a subpoena or summons has been issued to the employee.
6.5	BENEFITS DURING UNPAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE
An educational support employee shall suffer no loss of fringe benefits or seniority for approved unpaid leaves of absence of less than thirty (30) calendar days.
The educational support employee on an approved leave of absence for more than thirty (30) days without pay or benefits shall have the option of continuing as a participant in the existing insurance benefit program at the expense of the educational support employee, while on such leave. All benefits to which an educational support employee was entitled at the time the approved leave of absence commenced, including unused accumulated sick leave, will be restored upon return to service. An employee on an extended leave of absence will be re-employed in an appropriate position as soon as a vacancy occurs after the request for reinstatement. If the employee declines the position, there is no further obligation for employment.
Unless mutually agreed upon, educational support employees taking leave under any provisions of this section will normally return only at the beginning of the school year for ten-month employees or fiscal year for twelve-month employees.
6.6	FAMILY CRISIS LEAVE EXCHANGE
The purpose of the Family Crisis Leave Exchange (FCLE) is to provide sick leave to any FCPS employee after their accumulated sick leave, personal leave, annual leave, and any other leave available to them has been exhausted. Support employees who contribute to members in other units (i.e., FCTA or FCASA) shall donate leave time equivalent in accordance with the appropriate weighted exchange. For example, one (1) day contributed by an educational support employee may be equivalent to donating a half-day to the teacher.
22
Rules:
1.	A request for leave may be requested only in connection with a catastrophic and life threatening illness or injury of a member of the immediate family as defined as follows, or one that stands in the same status as determined by the administrating committee. Immediate family means the employee’s spouse, child, parent.
2.	The employee shall not be gainfully employed in any other capacity during the covered period.
3.	Maximum grant shall be fifty (50) workdays.
4.	A family may receive a maximum grant only once in any three (3)-year period.
5.	Contributors are limited to a maximum contribution of one (1) earned day in any individual case.
Procedures:
1.	Request must be made in writing to the FCLE in care of the FASSE office, stating the details of the circumstances and the likely duration.
2.	The Finance Department shall verify the employee’s leave status to the committee.
3.	Written statement detailing the condition, treatment plan, and diagnosis shall be submitted by the attending physician(s).
4.	The committee shall notify the Superintendent or his/her designee, building principal, human resources, and the appropriate director of the request and seek any input that they may have concerning the request.
5.	The committee shall approve or deny the request by a majority vote of the committee. The committee’s decision may be appealed to the FASSE board of directors within ten (10) days.
6.	The committee shall notify the applicant of its decision, in writing, within ten (10) workdays.
7.	Upon approval, the committee will first notify the staff at the applicant’s work site of the need for voluntary leave donations, then all other sites.
8.	Volunteers who wish to donate any of their earned sick leave must complete and sign the FCLE donation form and return the form to the FASSE office.
9.	FASSE shall establish a database system to track the donations with their utilization.
10.	FASSE shall provide human resources written notice of names of contributors, number of days donated, and names of recipients.
11.	Donated days will be granted in the order they were received.
12.	Should the applicant reach the maximum grant or return to work, or should he/she qualify for any other leave, any remaining contributions shall be returned to those who contributed them in the reverse order they were received. The exchange balance shall remain at zero until the next request.
13.	The Family Crisis Leave Exchange will function on an as needed basis.
14.	The committee will consist of at least five (5) employees selected by the FASSE president and approved by the FASSE board of directors.
15.	Committee term: 2 years - terms should be staggered.
23
ARTICLE VII INSURANCE
7.1	GROUP HEALTH, DENTAL & LIFE INSURANCE
A.	The Board shall pay for each participating educational support employee each year 96% of the premium cost of group medical, prescription, and vision unless waived by the educational support employee. The educational support employee may elect to add family coverage or same sex domestic partner coverage (see Appendix C for eligibility requirements). The Board contributes each year an amount calculated to equal 66% of that year's premium for the Board's family coverage plan and 71% of that year’s premium for the Board’s employee + one coverage plan. Such insurance shall include but not be limited to, the following benefits:
The specifications and benefits identified for the following plans are hereby appended to this Agreement:
Medical
Vision
Prescription Drugs
UnitedHealthcare UnitedHealthcare CVS/CAREMARK
The specifications and benefits for the medical, vision and prescription drug plans shall remain unchanged from those in effect on June 30, 2009.
B.	Life Insurance
1.	The Board shall pay for each educational support employee the full cost of term life insurance including accidental death and dismemberment equal to twice the employee's salary to the nearest $1,000 with a minimum coverage of $10,500.
2.	The Board shall make available to all eligible employees, at the employee’s expense, the option to purchase supplemental life insurance. Eligible employees may also purchase, at their expense, additional life insurance for their dependents up to the approved plan maximum.
C.	Deceased Spouse Insurance Coverage
Upon the death of an employee or retiree, dependents of that employee or retiree shall have the option to enroll in the health and/or dental insurance programs in place at the time of the employee’s or retiree’s death. Participation requirements include the following:
■	Employee/Retiree completed 10 years of service with FCPS.
■	Employee/Retiree carried dependent medical/dental benefit coverage at time of death.
■	Surviving dependent has no access to employer provided medical/dental insurance.
■	Surviving dependent is responsible for full cost of medical/dental premiums.
■	New dependents may not be added to the policy.
D.	The Board shall contribute 100% of the premium cost per participating educational support employee, unless waived by the employee, for the purpose of a dental plan each year.
1.	The selection of the plan and determination of benefits to be bid shall be the duty of the insurance council as per Section 7.3 of this Article.
2.	The specifications and benefits are identified in the Delta Dental Program in effect July 1, 2005, and hereto appended to this Agreement.
24
E.	The specific insurance coverages shall be listed in the employee benefit plan description booklet, which will be updated at the conclusion of these negotiations. The coverages shall not be modified, except with a written notice of thirty (30) days in advance of the proposed changes to the FASSE. Approval by both the Board and FASSE Executive Board will be required prior to implementation.
F.	The Board shall exercise all of its rights under the third party contracts with insurance providers to assure that all specifications are met by these providers.
G.	Retiree Insurance
1.	—Retiree” is defined as having at least ten (10) years of service with FCPS.
2.	The Board will contribute 80% of the premium for medical, prescription drugs and
vision for all retirees with 25 or more years of service.
3.	The Board will contribute 65% of the premium for medical, prescription drugs and
vision for all retirees with service between 10-24 years.
4.	The Board will make no contribution to the dental premium costs for retirees. Retirees
may participate in the dental plan but will assume full premium costs.
5.	Previous Board contributions for dental premium costs will be reallocated to cover
costs for the retiree dependent premium.
6.	A significant portion of the Board’s previous contribution to dependent medical
premiums will be reallocated to support individual retiree premiums.
7.	The Board’s previous dental premium contribution plus the remaining Board’s
previous dependent contribution will comprise the new Board allocation for dependent coverage.
7.2	WORKERS' COMPENSATION
A.	When an educational support employee is injured on the job and loses time from work, any deduction from the educational support employee's sick leave for absences directly resulting from the accident or injury will be reinstated once the workers' compensation claim is approved.
B.	An educational support employee who is physically unable to report for duty, as a result of an injury in the line of duty, may be placed on workers’ compensation leave at full salary provided the educational support employee seeks the initial workers’ compensation assessment from a physician who is among a list of comprehensive preferred providers such as Health at Work in Washington County; Corporate Occupational Health Solutions in Frederick County; and like facilities in the following Maryland counties of Carroll, Howard, and Montgomery, as well as Jefferson County, West Virginia and Adams County, Pennsylvania.
If an educational support employee elects to seek an assessment from a physician who is not among the list of preferred providers, the unit member will be entitled to receive the benefit mandated by the workers’ compensation law of Maryland but will not be entitled to the benefits in this section for full salary.
This stipulation does not pertain to appeals on disputes of workers’ compensation that the employee elected to pursue.
25
C.	Educational support employees on workers' compensation may accrue up to one year of service credit in determining his/her salary, including longevity and/or vacation eligibility. These advance credits will become effective upon the educational support employee's return to work. Annual leave for twelve-month educational support employees will accrue at the normal rate during disability leave.
D.	In order to be eligible for salary payment when injured, an educational support employee must be in an authorized position paid on the regular payroll.
E.	Board salary payments to the injured educational support employee shall not exceed the regular salary for the educational support employee for a period not to exceed one designated work year.
F.	If an educational support employee's disability continues beyond one year, the educational support employee may elect to use sick leave or annual leave accrued and may be eligible to apply for sick leave days.
7.3	INSURANCE COUNCIL
FASSE shall be permitted to appoint two (2) representatives to the insurance council. The Board may choose to appoint two (2) additional representatives to the council.
The insurance council shall meet within a reasonable time after a request of either party to discuss, study, and report on suggestions pertaining to the employee benefit plans. Minutes of such meetings shall be available to all members of the council.
Association representatives on the insurance council shall be released from school duties for meetings of the insurance council without loss of salary whenever it is jointly decided to hold such meetings during the school day.
The insurance council will:
•	Monitor monthly financial reports
•	Note trends and extraordinary claims experiences
•	T rack the status of the reserves
The Insurance Council shall study and make recommendations concerning the following but not limited to health insurance benefit design and cost for active and retired employees, dental insurance design and cost, life insurance and 403B programs.
7.4	COMPREHENSIVE GENERAL LIABILITY
Comprehensive general liability coverage will be provided for bodily injury, personal injury, or property damage, as specified in the Board's policy.
The Board, through its insurance company, will agree to investigate, defend, and pay any claim—if found legally liable—resulting from alleged bodily injury or property damage occurring out of the course of one's assigned duties.
Coverage will be extended to include personal injury arising out of false arrest, libel, slander, defamation of character, invasion of privacy, wrongful entry or eviction, and incidental malpractice related to student health services and psychological services performed by employees and in the course of their assigned duties.
26
7.5	AUTO INSURANCE REIMBURSEMENT
Upon verification from the supervisor, the Board shall reimburse community liaisons who are required to use their own automobiles in the performance of their duties to transport students, $75 per year for insurance coverage above state minimums, with a minimum of $100,000/$300,000 bodily injury and $100,000 property damage.
ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS
8.1	RETIREMENT AND SEVERANCE PAY
A.	Educational support employees working for the Board at the time of official retirement (or at the time of death, said beneficiary) shall receive retirement pay of forty percent (40%) of the accumulated sick leave at the final rate of pay. To be eligible, the educational support employee must have served ten (10) consecutive years in the Frederick County school system.
B.	Upon termination of employment with the Board, twelve-month educational support employees shall receive severance pay for earned unused annual leave.
C.	In order to be eligible for benefits under A. of this section, educational support employees must submit completed retirement forms to the Human Resources Department thirty (30) days prior to the projected retirement date. Advanced notice may not be a requirement in case of medical necessity or disability retirement.
8.2	OTHER DUTIES PERFORMED
Unless an emergency exists, an educational support employee will not be required to perform duties that would otherwise be performed by a public safety officer (for example: guarding a student in custody, accompanying a student suspected of a crime to interrogation, opening lockers suspected of containing dangerous materials).
Unless, in the opinion of the principal, there is an emergency, operations employees, bus drivers, bus assistants, and secretaries will not be required to supervise students in the classroom.
Unless an emergency exists, educational support employees will not be required to transport students in their own vehicles.
Where available, school-based health personnel will provide primary health-related services to students. When unavailable, educational support staff may be asked to perform health-related services to students. The Board will offer training to support staff in compliance with state law.
8.2	a INSTRUCTIONAL ASSISTANTS USED AS SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS
Unless an emergency exists, a substitute teacher will first be sought to cover a class prior to assigning the responsibility to an instructional assistant. The instructional assistant may voluntarily agree to provide the coverage. Part-time assistants may have the option to provide class coverage after their regularly scheduled workday and be compensated accordingly.
The Board and FASSE agree that instructional assistants should only be requested to provide class coverage after the school has been unsuccessful in securing a substitute. Except for assistants who regularly cover classes during individualized education program (IEP) team meetings, benefited parttime and full-time instructional assistants who are requested to substitute in the school will be compensated a stipend of $55 if required to cover classes for one-half day or more. Where practical, allocation will be offered on a rotational basis within each school.
27
8.2	b REIMBURSEMENT OF STATE-MANDATED/REQUIRED TESTS
All instructional assistants who pass the Maryland state-mandated test as required under federal law (No Child Left Behind) shall be reimbursed in full for the cost of the test.
All HVAC, electricians, mechanics, technicians, and food service employees who are required to maintain a license that is required by law and is part of their employee job description shall be reimbursed expenses associated with the test or required training.
8.3	TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
ELIGIBILITY
Educational support employees are eligible to receive tuition reimbursement, up to $1,500 per year, for courses taken or training that are job related, or in pursuit of continuing education, or in pursuit of a career change within the system. Related registration fees and fees associated with competency exams may also be reimbursed. Such courses and fees must be approved by the senior human resources manager prior to course registration. Reimbursement will be approved for actively employed educational support employees with proof of payment, verification of a grade of “C" or better, and submission of materials within one (1) month of completion of the class. An additional $2,000 per fiscal year may be requested for employees enrolled in a program in education leading to teacher certification K-12 or other areas identified as technical skill shortage areas.
For noncredit, nongraded course work, reimbursement will be approved for actively employed educational support employees with proof of payment, verification of successful completion, and submission of materials within one (1) month of completion of the class.
REPAY OBLIGATION
With the exception of extenuating circumstances, educational support employees who receive tuition reimbursement and leave employment within two (2) years of receiving reimbursement shall be required to repay the monies received. The employee may pay monies owed directly or have the amount deducted from his/her pay.
8.4	CLOTHING ALLOWANCE
The Board will provide an $80 clothing allowance per year for each permanent food service employee with at least one (1) year of service working four (4) or more hours a day. A reimbursement of $60 will be paid to permanent food service employees with at least one (1) year of service working less than four (4) hours a day.
The Board will reimburse all employees who are required to wear safety lenses and frames the additional cost of purchasing prescription safety lenses and frames once every twenty-four (24) months.
All Board bus drivers shall be given one (1) pair of gloves per year for fueling buses. Drivers may exchange the original pair of gloves for a replacement pair.
All employees who are required to purchase and wear safety shoes or safety lenses and frames will have a one-time selection option for reimbursement of either $60 a year or $120 every other year toward their purchase of such items. Requests for safety shoes must be accompanied by verification that safety shoes meet accepted industry standards.
28
8.5	UNIFORMS
The Board will provide uniforms, at no cost, to maintenance, fleet maintenance, and warehouse staff as well as courier drivers who are required to wear uniforms during their workday.
8.6	OTHER ISSUES BY CLASSIFICATION
BUS DRIVERS/ASSISTANTS
A.	Bus drivers may eat or drink on buses only when students are absent.
B.	The requirements necessary to qualify for the driver/assistant award program shall be given to
each bus driver/assistant at the beginning of the school year. Upon request, drivers/assistants can review their driver award program tally sheets.
B.	Bus drivers/assistants will receive compensation at their current rate for additional time worked for the following required duties:
1.	Early closing: elementary inservice (three [3] hours at present step)
2.	Parent conferences: elementary (six [6] hours at present step)
3.	School bus drivers’ inservice (six [6] hours at present step)
D.	Bus drivers will receive a $425 stipend, per bus, paid in two (2) equal payments in December and June for the following required duties:
1.	Bringing buses to	inspection.
2.	Bringing buses in	for service or	repair.
3.	Completing monthly route manifests.
4.	Fueling the bus.
5.	Maintaining cleanliness of the bus, both interior and, weather permitting, exterior.
6.	Making written and oral reports to supervisors and/or school administration staff.
7.	Participating in school/parent/transportation conference.
8.	Checking email communications. *
9.	Other reasonable duties that are an ancillary part of the bus service.
E.	Drivers hired/terminated after the beginning of the school year will have their payments prorated based on the days actually worked in each of the appropriate time periods.
* NOTE:	The parties agree that during the 08-09 school year training to learn and use email will
be offered to bus drivers and assistants with the expectation that the requirements to check email will not occur until the 09-10 school year.
F.	Those required to have random drug and/or alcohol testing will be compensated for one (1) hour of the hourly rate. Tests requiring more than one (1) hour will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Payment will be made only two (2) times a year in January and June. Drivers required to use their own transportation to get to the test will be reimbursed mileage at the current IRS rate as of July 1 of that year.
G.	Bus assistants will receive a $110 stipend, per bus, paid in two (2) equal payments in December and June for the following required duties:
1.	Completing monthly route manifests.
2.	Maintaining cleanliness of the bus, both the interior and, weather permitting, exterior.
3.	Making written and oral reports to supervisors and/or school administrative staff.
4.	Participating in school/parent/transportation conference.
5.	Other reasonable duties that are an ancillary part of the bus service.
29
STAFF DEVELOPMENT
The Board will allocate up to $2,000 for speakers and programs. The Board and FASSE recognize the benefit of offering joint training initiatives for members of the FASSE unit. Joint requests from FCPS and FASSE for staff development monies for this purpose may be made to the Board for consideration of monies which may exceed the $2,000 allocation.
SECRETARIES AND ASSISTANTS
For those secretaries and/or assistants who complete the professional standards program (PSP), a one-time bonus of $300 shall be remitted to the employee. Payment shall be rendered beginning July 1, 1989, for those who have completed the program previously and those who complete it during the fiscal year.
FOOD SERVICE
An incentive of $300 will be awarded to an employee for every three (3) year period of School Nutrition Association (SNA) recertification.
8.7 AWARD PROGRAM INCENTIVES
When departments institute employee award programs, incentives may be provided that include an additional day of leave with pay. When departments create employee incentive programs, input and participation will be sought from nonsupervisory employees within the department. Departments are encouraged to have nonsupervisory employees vote to determine award recipients.
ARTICLE IX DURATION
GENERAL PROVISIONS
A.	If a provision of this Agreement or any application of this Agreement to any unit member(s) is held to be contrary to law or a court decision, then such provisions or application will not be deemed valid and subsisting, except to the extent permitted by law, but all other provisions or applications will continue in full force and effect.
B.	This Agreement constitutes Board policy for the term of said Agreement, and the Board will carry out the commitments contained herein and give them full force and effect as Board policy. The Board will amend its written policies and take such other action as may be necessary in order to give full force and effect to the provisions of this Agreement. The Association agrees to abide by all provisions of this Agreement and to use every effort to inform and advise unit members in carrying out its provisions.
C.	If the parties are unable to reach agreement, the impasse process shall be declared and conducted in accordance with provisions as established under Education Article, Annotated Code of Maryland.
D.	Notwithstanding the provisions contained in paragraph A, the Maryland Court of Appeals and the Maryland State Board of Education have made significant decisions concerning the legality of topics for negotiations and established criteria for determining the legality of these topics. The Board asserts its intention to comply with the laws and the decisions of the Maryland Court of Appeals, Maryland State Board of Education, and the Public Labor Relations Board. Therefore, in negotiating the provisions in this Agreement, the parties agree that in the event
30
that any topics or provisions in this Agreement are determined to be illegal by the courts, Maryland State Board of Education, or the Public Labor Relations Board, then the topics and provisions of this Agreement related to those topics or provisions determined to be illegal shall automatically be removed from this Agreement.
This Agreement shall remain in effect from July 1, 2011, to midnight June 30, 2014.
If the Board is unable to implement this contract because its budget request is not funded by the county commissioners in any year, the parties will meet to renegotiate monetary and language issues.
The parties will meet on or before December 1 of each intervening year to negotiate salary and insurance only and will begin negotiations on or before December 1, 2013, to negotiate a successor Agreement.
31
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this document to be executed by their duly authorized officers this day of . dxu/icofc', 2011.
FREDERICK ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL SUPPORT EMPLOYEES
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF FREDERICK COUNTY, MARYLAND
32
2011-2012 FASSE/BOE NEGOTIATED AGREEMENT APPENDIX A
FREDERICK COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS SUPPORT EMPLOYEE SALARY SCALE July 1, 2011 - June 30, 2012
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9	Step 10	Step 11	Step 12	Step 13	Step 14	Step 15	Step 16	Step 17	Step 18	Step 19
001	10.89	11.28	11.67	12.08	12.50	12.94	13.39	13.86	14.35	14.85	15.37	15.91	16.46	17.04	17.64	18.26	18.89	19.56	20.24
002	11.55	11.96	12.37	12.81	13.26	13.72	14.20	14.70	15.21	15.75	16.30	16.87	17.46	18.07	18.71	19.36	20.04	20.74	21.47
003	12.24	12.67	13.12	13.58	14.05	14.55	15.06	15.58	16.13	16.69	17.28	17.89	18.51	19.16	19.83	20.53	21.24	21.99	22.76
004	12.98	13.44	13.91	14.39	14.90	15.42	15.96	16.52	17.10	17.69	18.32	18.96	19.62	20.31	21.02	21.76	22.52	23.31	24.12
005	13.76	14.24	14.74	15.26	15.79	16.34	16.92	17.51	18.12	18.76	19.42	20.10	20.80	21.53	22.28	23.06	23.87	24.71	25.57
006	14.58	15.10	15.63	16.17	16.74	17.33	17.93	18.56	19.21	19.88	20.58	21.30	22.05	22.82	23.62	24.45	25.30	26.19	27.10
007	15.46	16.00	16.56	17.14	17.74	18.36	19.01	19.67	20.36	21.08	21.82	22.58	23.37	24.19	25.04	25.92	26.83	27.77	28.74
008	16.39	16.96	17.56	18.17	18.81	19.47	20.15	20.85	21.59	22.34	23.13	23.94	24.77	25.64	26.54	27.47	28.44	29.43	30.46
009	17.37	17.98	18.61	19.26	19.94	20.64	21.37	22.11	22.89	23.69	24.53	25.38	26.27	27.20	28.15	29.14	30.17	31.23	32.32
010	18.41	19.06	19.73	20.42	21.14	21.88	22.65	23.44	24.26	25.11	26.00	26.91	27.85	28.83	29.84	30.89	31.98	33.10	34.26
011	19.51	20.20	20.91	21.64	22.41	23.19	24.01	24.85	25.72	26.62	27.56	28.52	29.52	30.56	31.63	32.75	33.90	35.08	36.31
012	20.69	21.41	22.17	22.94	23.75	24.59	25.45	26.34	27.26	28.22	29.21	30.23	31.29	32.39	33.53	34.71	35.93	37.19	38.49
013	21.93	22.70	23.50	24.32	25.18	26.06	26.97	27.92	28.90	29.91	30.96	32.05	33.17	34.34	35.54	36.79	38.09	39.42	40.80
014	23.24	24.06	24.91	25.78	26.69	27.62	28.59	29.59	30.63	31.70	32.82	33.97	35.16	36.40	37.68	39.00	40.37	41.79	43.25
015	24.64	25.50	26.40	27.32	28.29	29.28	30.31	31.37	32.47	33.61	34.79	36.01	37.27	38.58	39.94	41.34	42.79	44.29	45.84
016	26.12	27.04	27.98	28.96	29.98	31.04	32.13	33.25	34.42	35.62	36.88	38.17	39.51	40.89	42.33	43.82	45.36	46.95	48.59
017	27.68	28.66	29.66	30.70	31.78	32.90	34.05	35.25	36.48	37.76	39.09	40.46	41.88	43.35	44.87	46.45	48.08	49.77	51.51
018	29.34	30.38	31.44	32.54	33.69	34.87	36.10	37.36	38.67	40.03	41.44	42.89	44.39	45.95	47.57	49.24	50.97	52.75	54.60
019	31.10	32.20	33.33	34.50	35.71	36.97	38.26	39.60	40.99	42.43	43.92	45.46	47.05	48.71	50.42	52.19	54.03	55.92	57.88
020	32.97	34.13	35.33	36.57	37.85	39.19	40.56	41.98	43.45	44.97	46.56	48.19	49.87	51.63	53.44	55.32	57.27	59.27	61.35
* Hourly Rates on this scale are an approximation due to rounding differences
MEMBERSHIP RULES AND PROCEDURES FCPS EMPLOYEES SICK LEAVE BANK
Statement of Intent
The purpose of the Sick Leave Bank (the Bank) is to provide sick leave to Bank members after their accrued and current year projected sick leave have been used. The Bank is to provide sick leave only in cases of prolonged, catastrophic, incapacitating personal illness, injury, or quarantine of the member during the regularly scheduled duty day, which is not likely to permanently disable the member.
Membership
1.	New employees may become members of the Bank only after the completion of the probationary period.
2.	A new employee wishing to join the Bank must submit a completed enrollment form to the senior human resources officer within ten (10) days of the end of the probationary period.
3.	Employees returning from extended leave may become members by donating one day of sick leave within thirty (30) days of the date of reinstatement to active service.
4.	Employees who fail to act within the specified enrollment eligibility period must wait until enrollment is open again (July 1 through October 1 of the next fiscal year).
5.	Forms to join the Bank and forms to request sick leave from the Bank should be submitted to the Bank committee chair at the FASSE office.
6.	Any regular FCPS employee whose work assignment is half-time or more, and who is not eligible to participate in the FASSE Sick Leave Bank, is eligible to participate in the Bank after all other membership requirements are met.
7.	To remain a member of the Bank, an employee must contribute to the Bank at a rate of one day per year.
8.	Membership in the Bank will remain in force and continue from year-to-year with a deduction made automatically as required, unless membership is canceled in writing by the member before October 1.
RULES
1.	The Bank may be used only by the individual contributor for his or her illness, injury, quarantine and must meet ALL of the following criteria:
a.	personal
b.	prolonged
c.	catastrophic
d.	incapacitating
2.	The Bank may NOT be used by the member to remain absent from work in order to assist a family member.
APPENDIX B
3.	Only sick leave may be contributed to the Bank—annual and personal leave may not be contributed.
4.	For the purposes of administration of the Bank, sick leave is defined as:
5.	A designated amount of compensated sick leave granted to an employee whose absence is due to an illness, injury, or quarantine which meets the requirements of rule 1 (above).
6.	Sick leave may not be granted for any period of disability during which monies are paid to the member under workers’ compensation. If a member who has utilized sick leave days granted by the Bank thereafter receives benefits under the Workers’ Compensation Act for those same days, pay will be administered in accordance with the handbook language on workers’ compensation and the Bank will be reimbursed for any days used.
7.	Elective (non-emergency, non-life threatening) surgery will not be covered during the school year for members who work less than twelve (12) months.
8.	A member must be absent for ten (10) consecutive work days before being eligible for a grant from the Bank for that same illness, injury, or quarantine. Those ten (10) days may be covered by the member’s accumulated sick leave, personal leave, annual leave, or leave without pay in accordance with the prevailing policy. Once the ten (10) consecutive work day eligibility requirement has been met, subsequent intermittent absences for the same condition will not cause ineligibility.
9.	Members must submit requests for the sick leave bank to the Bank committee chair at the FASSE office.
10.	Requests must be made within fifteen (15) calendar days of return to work.
11.	The Bank will request additional information if unable to reach a decision regarding the
request.
12.	All requests to draw upon the Bank must be accompanied by a signed physician’s statement detailing the cause, nature, and prognosis for the illness, injury, or quarantine.
13.	The decision of the sick leave bank committee shall be approved by the support personnel officer unless the decision is inconsistent with sick leave bank regulations or is unsupported by documentation. Leave grants from the Bank will be made in units of not more than twenty-five (25) days (except in extreme cases as determined by the committee) and will not exceed fifty (50) days in any fiscal year. The maximum number of sick leave days that will be granted during any two (2) consecutive fiscal years is one hundred (100). Members who draw the maximum of one hundred (100) days in two (2) fiscal years are ineligible to participate for the next fiscal year. When medically verified, employees may be allowed to use leave in one-half (1/2) day increments.
14.	In cases where the committee recommends denial of either a request for leave, or additional leave, the Bank will notify the member directly in writing with the reason for the denial. A member may appeal directly to the FASSE board of directors through the president within thirty (30) days of the denial.
APPENDIX B
15.	A contributor will lose the right to request leave from the Bank if one or more of the following occur:
a.	termination or suspension of employment by FCPS
b.	cancellation of participation which is effective only at the close of a fiscal year— June 30 of each year
c.	refusal to provide requested information upon request of the sick leave bank committee
d.	refusal to contribute leave in accordance with membership requirements
e.	use of one hundred (100) days during two (2) consecutive fiscal years
f.	refusal to apply for disability retirement benefits if the committee determines that the member may be eligible
16.	The existence of the Bank and participation by employees in the Bank does not negate or eliminate any other FCPS sick leave policies, nor does it in any way negate the rights of individual employees who participate in the Bank to other sick leave benefits included in the FASSE-Board of Education Agreement.
Administrative Procedures
1.	One day of sick leave will be deducted from the member’s sick leave account in the second pay period in October each year and will be placed in the Bank, unless written notice of cancellation is given prior to July 1. Contributions to the Bank must be authorized by the employee on the appropriate form, available in the department of human resources. The annual contribution of one day will be continued from year to year until canceled in writing by the member. Additional days may be assessed if the Bank has a negative balance at the end of the school year. Members will be notified prior to any additional deduction.
2.	The president of FASSE will select employees to serve on the sick leave bank committee, and shall submit their names to the FASSE board of directors for approval.
FASSE will provide the names of the sick leave bank committee, in writing, to FCPS Human Resources Department by June 30 of each school year.
3.	The Bank will approve all donations before they are forwarded to the payroll department.
4.	The committee will review and recommend to the senior human resources manager, approval or denial of all requests for leave from the Bank within fifteen (15) working days of receiving the request.
5.	All requests to draw upon the Bank must be made on the appropriate form.
6.	When the committee deems a second opinion is appropriate, any member requesting leave may be required to undergo a medical examination and consultation by a physician of the committee’s choice at the applicant’s expense. Any member not wishing to submit to this requirement may withdraw their request without affecting future membership.
7.	In the event a member is unable to personally complete the leave request form, an agent or family member may act on their behalf.
APPENDIX B
8.	An employee must use all sick leave that will be accrued for the current fiscal year before requesting leave from the Bank. An adjustment will be made on the final paycheck to reflect any negative balance in sick leave. If the amount on an employee’s paycheck is to be adjusted, said employee will be notified. In no case will the granting of leave from the Bank cause a member to receive more than his or her regular salary.
9.	The payroll department will maintain records of all member contributions, withdrawals, cancellations, and the status of the Bank.
10.	Any Bank member may review his/her membership application form, request for withdrawal of membership, and approved requests by contacting the Bank committee chair at the FASSE office.
11.	If, in the judgment of the committee, an applicant for leave, or an extension of leave, is
eligible for disability retirement benefits, the committee may require the employee to apply for such benefits. Failure to apply as directed may result in disqualification from receipt of further benefits. The employee will continue to receive Bank benefits while waiting for a decision regarding the disability retirement. Bank benefits shall cease when disability retirement becomes effective. The member is required to notify the Bank of approval of any applications for disability retirement.
12.	If an applicant receives an initial grant or an extension of a grant, and he or she is found to be ineligible for disability retirement, the committee may refer the member to a doctor of its choice at the member’s expense for an evaluation as to whether the applicant is permanently disabled. If the doctor certifies that the applicant is so disabled, then the committee may deny the applicant’s request for a grant or an extension of a grant.
APPENDIX B
Frederick County Public Schools	Page 1
Affidavit for Same-Sex Domestic Partnership
CONFIDENTIAL
FREDERICK COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Affidavit for Same-Sex Domestic Partnership
(All required evidence and documentation must be attached to this form.)
Part I
I, _______________________________, Social Security # _____________, Employee ID# ______, and
(Employee - Print Name)
I,		, Social Security # _________________________________________, affirm, by our signatures
(Same-Sex Domestic Partner - Print Name)
below and under penalty of perjury, that we satisfy the following requirements as domestic partners:
1.	Are of the same sex.
2.	Share a close personal relationship and be responsible for each other’s welfare.
3.	Have shared the same legal residence for at least 12 months.
4.	Are at least 18 years old.
5.	Have voluntarily consented to the relationship, without fraud or duress.
6.	Are not married to, or in a same-sex domestic partnership with, any other person.
7.	Are not related by blood or affinity in a way that would disqualify us from marriage under Maryland law if we were opposite sexes.
8.	Are legally competent to contract.
9.	Share sufficient financial and legal obligations to satisfy at least three (3) of the following items (evidence required):
a.	a joint housing lease, mortgage, or deed
b.	joint ownership of a motor vehicle
c.	a joint checking or savings account
d.	designation of the partner as a primary beneficiary of the employee’s life insurance, retirement benefits, or residuary estate under a will
e.	designation of the partner as holding a durable power of attorney for health care decision regarding the employee
Part II
Termination of Domestic Partnership
1.	We understand that we must notify Frederick County Public Schools (FCPS) within 30 days after termination of the domestic partnership by death or dissolution.
2.	We further understand that when the domestic partnership ends, benefits will terminate or continue in the same manner and to the same extent that FCPS terminates or continues, respectively, benefits for a former spouse in equivalent circumstances (such as dissolution of a partnership and divorce).
APPENDIX C
Frederick County Public Schools
Affidavit for Same-Sex Domestic Partnership
Page 2
Part III
1.	We understand this information will be held confidential and will be subject to disclosure only upon our express written authorization or if otherwise required by law.
2.	We understand that our declaration of domestic partnership and the responsibility for our common welfare may have legal and tax implications under federal and Maryland law. We understand that if an employee receives health benefits, including medical, dental, vision, and prescription for a same-sex domestic partner who is not a dependent of the employee under the Internal Revenue Code, that employee will be required to pay taxes on the value of the benefit. We understand that we are encouraged to contact a tax advisor or an attorney regarding tax implications of same-sex domestic partner benefits.
3.	We understand that enrollment in benefits to which we or dependents are not entitled is considered fraud. We further understand that if we willfully misrepresent the eligibility of ourselves or dependents, fail to take the necessary action to remove ineligible dependents, or in anyway obtain benefits to which we are not entitled, our benefits will be canceled. In addition, we may be required to repay any claims that have been paid inappropriately and may face charges (or dismissal) from FCPS service.
Employee’s Signature	Date
Subscribed and sworn to before me this ____day of _____________, 20__.
Notary Public
My commission expires: _________________
Same-Sex Domestic Partner’s Signature	Date
Subscribed and sworn to before me this ______day of ______________, 20__.
Notary Public
My commission expires: _________________
Negotiations2/Affidavit for Same Sex Domestic Partnership/7-1-10/ca
APPENDIX C