Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Onondaga, County of and Civil Service Employees Association, Inc. (CSEA), American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO, Local 834 (2001)
K#: 820161
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
AGREEMENT
by and between the
COUNTY OF ONONDAGA
and
CSEA, Local 1000 AFSCME, AFL-CIO
Onondaga County Employees Local 834
Frank Forte, President
January 1, 2001 — December 31, 2004

If you have a question about this contract, your CSEA representation, or your CSEA benefits and services, please use the following guide to contact the proper union officials. If you feel your rights under this contract have been violated, immediately contact your nearest shop steward or Unit Officer.
CSEA Onondaga County Units Covered by this Contract:
Combined Services Unit Corrections Department Unit Department of Social Services Unit Drainage and Sanitation Unit Health Department Unit Highway Department Unit Long Term Care Unit Parks Department Unit Probation Department Unit Public Library Unit
My Unit President:
My Shop Steward:
see inside back cover for more Information
5
I	—.....
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE		PAGE
	Preamble	1
1	Agreement Scope	1
2	Recognition	1
3	Management Rights	2
4	Association Rights	2
5	Out of Title Work	5
6	Employee Status	5
7	Work Time	6
8	Layoff Procedures	8
9	Continuous Recruitment Procedure	10
10	Regular Compensation Rate	12
11	Premium Compensation	13
12	Overtime Compensation Premium	13
13	Holidays and Holiday Premium	15
14	Longevity Premium	16
15	Shift Differential	17
16	Educational Premium Compensation	17
17	Chronic Care Institutional Differential Premium	18
18	Mileage and Parking Reimbursement	18
19	Meal Allowance	19
20	Children’s Protective Unit Compensation	19
21	Retirement	20
22	Physical Examinations - Drainage and Sanitation	20
23	Health and Safety	22
24	Health and Dental Benefits	22
25	Long Term Disability Benefits	23
26	Discipline and Discharge Procedure	23
27	Grievance and Arbitration Procedure	25
28	Employee Leave Benefits	28
29	Joint Labor Management Program	33
30	Productivity - Efficiency Clause	33
31	On-Call	34
32	Employee Property Damage	34
33	Probation Department Premium Compensation	34
34	Tardiness/Attendance Rule	35
35	Conformity to Law	35
36	Ratification of Agreement	35
37	Terms of Agreement	36
	Appendix A (Salaries)	37
	Appendix B (Represented Titles)	43
	Appendix C (Settlement Agreement)	49
	Appendix D (Oral Warning Notation)	50
	Appendix E (Accrual Chart)	51
	Appendix F (Monthly Parking Reimbursement Rate Formula)	52
	Letter of Agreement - Salary Plan	53
	Salary Plan	54
Section 204(a) of the Civil Service Law of the State of New York commonly referred to as the Taylor Law requires the following paragraph to be included within any labor agreement executed between a public Employer and its public employees:
"IT IS AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES THAT ANY PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT REQUIRING LEGISLATIVE ACTION TO PROMOTE ITS IMPLEMENTATION BY AMENDMENT OR LAW OR BY PROVIDING THE ADDITIONAL FUNDS, THEREFORE, SHALL NOT BECOME EFFECTIVE UNTIL THE APPROPRIATE LEGISLATIVE BODY HAS GIVEN APPROVAL."
Preamble
The County of Onondaga (hereinafter referred to as the "County") and the Onondaga Local 834, Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., (hereinafter referred to as the "Association") declare it to be their mutual policy that in order to promote harmonious labor relations between the County and the employees in the recognized bargaining unit, the principle of collective negotiations is to be employed pursuant to the New York State Public Employees Fair Employment Act. Both parties to this agreement furthermore affirm that such employment in the service of the public is a lifelong career and that the terms and conditions of employment shall be of the highest caliber to attract and maintain for the Employer the best personnel available. We further acknowledge that each employee in the defined bargaining unit should be at all times a dedicated, courteous and efficient servant of and to the public.
The County and the Association agree not to limit employment with the County or membership in the Association and that neither party will discriminate in a manner contrary to law with regard to the application of the terms and conditions of this agreement.
Article 1 Agreement Scope
This agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the County and the Association. During its life neither party will be obligated to collectively negotiate with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in said agreement or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically covered in it. In reaching this agreement the County and the Association have considered all matters lawfully subject to collective negotiations.
This agreement may be amended or supplemented only by further written agreement between the parties. A party desiring amendment or supplement will notify the other party in writing stating the circumstances of the amendment or supplement desired, but the other party will not be obligated to discuss or agree to such proposed amendment or supplement.
Article 2 Recognition
The County hereby recognizes the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., by the Onondaga County Local 834 as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all regularly scheduled full-time and part-time employees (except per diem, seasonal, temporary, and casual employees and those employees working in titles designated by the County to be management or confidential) in the defined bargaining unit for the purpose of collective negotiations and the administration of grievances arising thereunder, for the life of this agreement.
It is mutually agreed that the defined bargaining unit shall include all titles in all County departments listed in Appendix B.
The Association affirms that it does not assert the right to strike nor to assist or participate in any strike nor to impose an obligation to conduct, assist or participate in any strike, slowdown or work stoppage.
-1-
Article 3 Management Rights
The Association agrees that the County shall retain complete authority for the policies and administration of all County departments, offices or agencies which it exercises under the provisions of law and the Constitution of the State of New York and/or the United States of America and in fulfilling its rights and responsibilities under this agreement.
The rights and responsibilities of the County include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: (1) to determine the standards of service to be offered by its offices, agencies and departments; (2) to direct, hire, promote, appraise, transfer, assign, retain employees and to suspend, demote, discharge or take disciplinary action against employees; (3) to relieve employees from duties because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons; (4) to maintain the efficiency of government operations entrusted to them; (5) to determine the methods, means and personnel by which such operations are to be conducted; (6) to take whatever actions may be necessary to carry out the mission, policies or purpose of the department, office or agency concerned; (7) to establish work rules and regulations not inconsistent with the terms of the agreement; (8) to establish specifications for each class of positions and to classify or reclassify and to allocate or reallocate new or existing positions.
The exercise of any such power, right, authority, duty or responsibility by the County in the adoption of such rules and regulations, and policies, as it may deem necessary and as they apply to employees represented by the Association, shall be limited only by the specific and express terms of this agreement.
Article 4
Association Rights
The County shall deduct biweekly from the wages of each employee and remit monthly to the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., 143 Washington Avenue, Albany, New York, 12210, regular membership dues and/or insurance premiums for those employees authorizing such deductions.
The County further agrees that Onondaga Local 834 of the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., having been recognized as the exclusive bargaining agent for all full and part-time employees within the defined bargaining unit, shall be entitled to have deductions made on bi-weekly pay dates from the pay of each employee of the bargaining unit, who are not members of the Association, the amount equivalent to the membership dues levied by the Association and remitted monthly to the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., 143 Washington Avenue, Albany, New York, 12210, in accordance with Section 208.3(b) of the New York State Civil Service Law. The Association affirms that it has adopted such procedure for refund of agency fee deduction as required in Section 208.3(b) of the New York State Civil Service Law.
Membership in the Association shall be voluntary and the County agrees that there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion by the County against any employee because of his/her membership and/or his/her activities in the Association's business.
The County agrees that it will not aid, finance, or promote directly or indirectly any other labor group or organization which has as its primary purpose the representation of public employees under the Public Employees Fair Employment Act in the defined bargaining unit which aid financing or promotion, undermine the Association and its majority status.
-2-
Indemnification
The Association shall indemnify, defend and hold the County harmless against any and all claim, demand, suit or liability (monetary or otherwise) and for all legal acts which may occur for compliance with the section.
The Association shall promptly refund to the County any funds received in accordance with this agreement which are in excess of the amount of dues or other deductions which the County has agreed to deduct.
Bulletin Board
The County will provide the Association with bulletin board space on which to post (a) official Association notices and (b) notices required by law. The Association may also post such other matter as the County may expressly and specifically approve. All such notices or other matter will be non-political (in a public political sense) and non-defamatory.
Association Business: Local Representative
The Association shall designate one employee covered by this agreement its local representative who shall have the right on behalf of the Association to confer with County representatives regarding terms and conditions of this agreement. The Association shall notify the County in writing of this representative's designation and authority and any change in either.
Association Business: General Representation
A duly authorized representative of the Association and/or a representative of any association program may visit the County premises by prearrangement with the County Division of Employee Relations at any reasonable time to discharge the Association duties as the collective bargaining representative.
Association Business: Administrative Leave
The County agrees to authorize through the express and written consent of the County Executive or his authorized designee, up to ten (10) individual employees covered by this agreement, administrative leave at the employee's regular rate of compensation for the sole purpose of attending State Association business meetings. Such meetings shall include and are limited to attendance at Association State meetings, State-County Division meetings, Region V meetings and State Board of Director meetings.
Written request for such approved time off shall be forwarded to the County by the duly authorized representative of the Association at least five (5) working days prior to the date of the time requested.
The County reserves the right to refuse administrative leave for any individual at any time with reason being given and agrees to accept a request for replacement of any such individual.
The Association agrees to continue to reimburse the County for wages and for benefit contributions for health insurance, dental insurance, FICA, Worker's Compensation, Unemployment Insurance and New York State Employee Retirement System at the rate determined by the Employer for employees who are authorized administrative leave in accordance with existing procedures. The Employer will provide the Association with an annual statement of the rates it has determined for the benefit contribution.
- j -
1
Association Business: Unit and Local Meetings
The County will, upon written request by the affected employee, attempt to reschedule those Unit Presidents who, because of their regularly scheduled work shift, would be unable to attend Unit or Local meetings. When any such conflict occurs, the affected Unit President shall notify his/her department head or authorized designee at least 72 hours prior to the start of his/her normal work shift. The parties further understand and agree that in complying with this request no additional cost shall be incurred by the County nor shall there be any decrease in the level of service being provided and any denial of said request shall not be grievable.
Association Business: Unit Representative
In consideration of the variety and uniqueness of the many operations, installations, facilities and services provided by the County, the County's departmental administrators and the Union agree to meet for the purpose of establishing, on a department-by-department basis, appropriate ground rules and protocol in order to allow the unit president or his/her designee reasonable time to interview members and investigate matters related to grievances.
Association Notification
The County agrees to notify the Association, through the Division of Employee Relations, of the following on a bimonthly basis:
1.	New titles which are recognized as part of the bargaining unit;
2.	Number of said positions;
3.	Department where said position exist;
4.	Name of new employees hired into bargaining unit titles;
5.	Department location of said employee;
6.	Personnel Resolutions approved by the Onondaga County Legislature.
The County further agrees to provide a list to the Association on a semi-annual basis, stating names, addresses, social security numbers and membership status of all employees covered by the bargaining unit.
Orientation
The County agrees to provide a centralized orientation program for all new employees covered by this agreement. Said employees shall be given a copy of this agreement, a non-controversial fact sheet(s) supplied by the Association describing the Association and its purposes and copies of the Health Benefits and Dental Benefits Booklets.
Association By-Laws
The Association agrees to provide the Director of Employee Relations the most current edition of the mandated CSEA, Inc. constitution no later than March 1st of each contract year.
Article 5
Out of Title Work
Except for temporary assignments of thirty (30) working days or less, employees directed to perform substantial duties of a higher classification not common to their current classification on a regular basis, shall be paid the greater of the rate which is $300 more than their current rate of pay or Step A of the higher classification for the duration of such assignment.
Article 6
Employee Status
A.	Regular Full-Time Employees
A regular full-time employee is one who occupies a line budget position and who is scheduled and works on a full-time basis for the County and is thereby entitled to all rights and benefits provided under this agreement.
B.	Regular Part-Time Employees
A regular part-time employee is one who occupies a line budget position and who is scheduled and regularly works at least one half the hours scheduled per week for a regular full-time employee in a similar position.
C.	Academic Year Employee (Onondaga Community College)
An academic year employee is one who occupies a line budget position and is scheduled and works a full or part-time work schedule as determined by the College limited to those times when the college is in session during the academic year. Such an employee is eligible for benefits based upon their assignment to a full-time or part-time work schedule. Such employees shall be permitted to retain health and dental benefit coverage during those times when the College is not in session provided that the employee continues to contribute the amounts required for enrolled employees for such benefit coverage.
D.	Seniority
Seniority shall be defined as the date that an employee was first appointed to a regular line item position, full or part-time on the regular payroll (101) and followed by continuous full-time service thereafter with the County in a title recognized by this agreement except as modified by Civil Service Law. This definition shall also apply to the terms "anniversary dates", "initial employment date" or "IED" as may be used in this agreement.
Where two or more employees have the same date, seniority as defined herein shall be determined by the last number of the employee's social security number on file with the Employer; that is, the larger the number, the greater the seniority. In the event that this does not determine seniority, the next to last number and last number shall be used to determine seniority; that is the larger the number, the greater the seniority.
Such seniority shall be applicable in the case of geographic transfer and selection of vacation time to the extent that when all other relevant factors are equal, seniority shall be the determining factor.
Seniority, for all future vacancies, shall be considered for purposes of shift assignment, however, seniority shall not be the determining factor in making such assignments.
- <.
Qualifications, experience, skill, and ability to perform the work for government promotion from one classification to another consistent with rules and regulations of the County Personnel Department in its capacity as a Civil Service agent for the County of Onondaga and in full accordance with the State Civil Service Law shall be considered for promotional opportunities. When these factors are equal, seniority shall be the determining factor.
E.	Continuous Service (County) shall be broken by any one of the following actions:
a.	resignation or quitting not followed by reinstatement within four years from the date of separation:
b.	termination or suspension not followed by reinstatement within four years from the date of separation:
c.	discharge or retirement;
d.	Failure to return to work within 10 working days following a leave of absence with or without pay;
e.	Failure to return to work following notice of recall from layoff within 12 working days;
f.	failure to accept reinstatement from a preferred list;
g.	failure to be recalled from a preferred eligible list; or
h.	Failure to be recalled from a layoff list within two (2) years from the date of the layoff.
F.	Rehire Provision
1.	When an employee separates from the County service due to a layoff, transfer of function, or voluntary resignation, and is subsequently rehired within three years from the date of separation, application may be made to the Commissioner of Personnel to approve the prior service and to use the original initial employment date for purposes of salary and/or fringe benefit calculations. The decision to request such approval shall be discretionary with the appointing authority. The appointing authority may decide to request such approval for either fringe benefits, or salary, or both. Any application to approve the prior service shall be made by the employee within thirty days after the employee has returned to work.
2.	In the event of a return to employment after three years by an employee who separated from service due to layoff, transfer of function, resignation or the operation of a civil service eligible list and who performed satisfactorily during the prior period of service, application may be made to the department head for approval to credit the amount of prior service in establishing eligibility dates for salary, fringe benefits or both. The decision to approve the application is discretionary with the department head and subject to the approval of the Commissioner of Personnel. Any application to approve the prior service shall be made by the employee within thirty days after employee has returned to work.
Article 7
Work Time
A.	Normal Work Dav
A regular full time employee's normal work day shall not exceed eight (8) consecutive hours in any one twenty-four (24) hour period, except as provided in paragraph (c).
B.	Normal Work Period
A regular full time employee's normal work period shall not exceed eighty (80) hours in any fourteen (14) day consecutive period and such employee shall be entitled to four (4) days off in such work period, except as provided in paragraph (c).
-6-
C.	Administrative and Clerical Employees
A regular work day for administrative and clerical employees shall not exceed seven (7) work hours in any twenty-four (24) hour period, except for institutional service employees' current hours of work.
A regular work period for administrative and clerical employees shall not exceed seventy (70) hours in any fourteen (14) day consecutive period and such employee shall be entitled to four days off in such work period, except for institutional service employees’ current hours of work.
Employees hired by the Department of Long Term Care Services on or after March 6, 1995 in the
titles set forth below shall have a regular work day four (24) hour period, and a regular work period (14) day consecutive period with such employee period.
Accountant II
Account Clerk I
Account Clerk II
Account Clerk Typist I Clerk I Clerk II Clerk III
Medical Records Administrator Medical Records Technician
not to exceed seven (7) work hours in any twenty-not to exceed seventy (70) hours in any fourteen being entitled to four (4) days off in such work
Personnel Aide Storekeeper Stock Clerk Stenographer I Stenographer II Stenographer III Typist I Typist II
Employees hired on or after the date of adoption of this agreement by the Onondaga County Legislature by the institutional service departments (defined as the Department of Long Term Care Services, Department of Correction, Hillbrook Detention Facility, and Department of Emergency Communication) in titles covered by this paragraph may be designated by the Employer, at its discretion, as having a regular work day of either seven (7) or eight (8) hours as defined in (A) and (C) of this Article and a corresponding normal work period of either 70 or 80 hours as defined in (B) or (C) of this Article. The rate of pay for such titles shall be that as designated in Appendix A -Salaries regardless of the designation of work day or work period by the Employer.
D.	Department of Facilities Management - Evening Custodial Crew
1)
Effective May 5, 2001, employees assigned to the evening custodial crew prior to May 5, 2001 and working in the titles including but not. limited to Custodial Worker I, Custodial Crew Leader and Laborer II in the Department of Facilities Management on the evening shift (currently 5 PM to 11 PM) shall work a work schedule consisting of a shift length of seven and one-half (7.5) hours including seven hours work within the shift.
Employees shall continue to be paid on the basis of a 70 hour pay schedule and shall be eligible to receive shift differential in accordance with Article 15 - Shift Differential of this agreement.
Employees assigned tc the evening custodial crew on or after May 5, 2001 shall have a normal work day and work period as set forth in paragraphs (A) and (B) of this Article and shall be paid on the basis of an 80 hour pay schedule. Employees shall be eligible to receive shift differential in accordance with Article 15 - Shift Differential of this agreement.
-7-
3)	It is agreed that the settlement agreement of August 5, 1985 (“Calendar Creep” Agreement) is amended to the extent provided in this section.
E.	Work Schedules
The Employer agrees to post work schedules in advance of the effective date and to provide prior notification of any change made therein to affected employees. In consideration of the variety and uniqueness of the many operations, installations, facilities and services provided by the Employer, the Employer and the Union agree to meet for the purpose of establishing, on a department-by-department basis, appropriate time frames for advance posting and notification of changes in working schedules.
F.	Emergency Conditions
During extreme weather or other emergencies, it is expected that all departments will continue to maintain normal operations. Those employees who are designated as essential workers shall be required to report for work. Those employees not designated as essential workers who are unable to come to work because of the emergency will be allowed to use any available leave credits (except sick time, unless the absence is for illness) or leave without pay.
In the event that the County Executive closes county offices or facilities because of weather or other emergency conditions, those employees who are not designated as essential workers should not report to work. Such employees will be paid for their scheduled work day during such closure. Those employees who are designated as essential workers and work during such emergency situations or those employees who have been prior approved by the department head or designee and work during such emergency situations shall be compensated additional straight time pay (or straight compensatory time) equivalent to their scheduled work day (seven or eight hours or pro-rated portion) in connection with the closure.
Article 8
Layoff Procedures
A.	Competitive Class
Employees occupying positions in the competitive class of the classified service shall be covered under the procedures of the Civil Service Law.
In the event that a competitive class employee has exhausted all rights under such procedures and is to be laid off, the employee may elect to proceed under (5) set forth below.
B.	Non-Competitive Class
In the event the Employer finds it necessary to abolish or reduce the number of occupied line budget roster positions, the Employer shall follow the procedures set forth below in order to conduct the displacement or layoff of employees.
The procedures shall be applied in the following order: first, regular full time employees displace regular full time employees; second, regular full time employees displace regular part-time employees; third, regular part-time employees displace regular part-time employees.
1.	Seniority - Except for part-time service, seniority shall be defined in accordance with Article 6 of this agreement. Part-time service for purposes of suspension or demotion upon the abolition or reduction of positions (layoff) shall be determined as one half (1/2) of the service required of
-8-
and calculated for a full-time employee. Eight (8) years part-time continuous 101 service equals four (4) years service for purposes of implementing this section. Employees working 4/5 time will accrue seniority for all time worked, i.e., the ten (10) years 4/5 time continuous service equals eight (8) years service for purposes of implementing this section.
2.	For purposes of this Article the term "department" shall also include the department or agency which remains after the consolidation (herein defined as the closing of one department and combining it with another department) of one department with another department.
3.	Upon a layoff within this bargaining unit, employees in a temporary or probationary status holding the same class title within the department in which the layoff occurs shall be first laid off, in that order, before any permanent employee within that class title are removed.
4.	Thereafter, permanent employees holding the same class title within the department in which layoff occurs shall be laid off in the inverse order of their standing on the seniority list, that is--last in, first out.
5.	In the event that the employee pursuant to (4) above is the least senior employee in the same class title in the department and is therefore unable to displace another employee in the same class title pursuant to (4) above, that employee shall have the right to retreat to his/her last held permanent title, if any, within the Non-Competitive or Labor class within his/her department. The retreat process shall continue only within that department until the least senior employee in the last affected job title is displaced and he/she shall be laid off and there shall be no further bumping, retreat or displacement.
6.	Employees that are displaced from their class title or that are laid off shall be placed on a recall list for a period not to exceed two (2) years from the date of displacement or layoff.
7.	The County shall be liable for any error on an abolition or reduction of positions (layoff) only from the date of the timely filing of a written grievance bringing said error to the County's attention, or in the case of a recall from the timely filing date of a written grievance concerning said error to the date the County notifies the employee to return to work. The County, through the Division of Employee Relations, will supply the Association with the names of those individuals who are being laid off.
8.	Recall Procedures - If, during the existence of a valid recall list, a vacancy which is to be filled occurs in a class title within any department or agency under the County's jurisdiction then the laid off or displaced employee in the same class title with the most seniority will be recalled if he/she has the ability to do the work and if not, the next senior employee who has the ability to do the work will be recalled and so on until the recall list is exhausted.
Displaced employees or laid off employees on a recall list who accept a recall to any vacancy shall be removed from the recall list.
Laid off employees on a recall list who decline a recall to any vacancy shall be removed from the recall list.
Displaced employees on a recall list who decline a recall to a vacancy in their original department shall be removed from the recall list
Displaced employees on a recall list who decline a recall to a vacancy which is not in their original department shall remain on the recall list.
-9-

9.	Notification of recall shall be sent to the employee by certified or registered mail to the employee's last address as on file with the Department of Personnel. Failure of the employee to notify the County in writing delivered to the Department of Personnel, following notice of recall from layoff within seven (7) working days from the date of notice shall be considered a refusal and the employee shall be processed as a quit and forfeit any and all recall rights.
10.	Recall rights for employees that are displaced or laid off will expire two (2) years from the date the employee was displaced or laid off.
11.	Temporary or probationary employees who have been laid off have no recall privileges.
12.	The laid off employee, if recalled during the period ofhis or her valid recall list, shall have his/her previously earned and unused sick leave restored to him/her.
13.	Laid off employees on a recall list shall be permitted to use the procedures set forth in Article 9 -Continuous Recruitment Procedure provided that any such employee who fails to survive the evaluation period will be returned to layoff status.
C.	Unclassified Service - Onondaga Community College
In the event of a reduction in force of Unclassified Service unit positions of Onondaga Community College, temporary employees in the affected position classification will be laid off first then probationary employees, in that order. Thereafter, permanent employees will be laid off from the affected position classification in accordance with their seniority together with their demonstrated ability to do the remaining work available without further training.
When two or more employees have relatively equal education and experience qualifications together with demonstrated knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the remaining work without further training, the employee(s) with the least seniority shall be laid off first.
No laid off employee at the campus shall displace an employee at JOBSPlus!, and no laid off employee at JOBSPlus! shall displace an employee at the campus.
Seniority is defined in Article 6 herein.
Only permanent employees shall have recall privileges as defined by the following Recall Process: Employees who are laid off shall be placed on a recall list for their affected position classification for a period not to exceed two (2) years from the date of layoff. In the event of a recall, employees who are still on the recall list shall be recalled in the inverse order of their layoff, provided they are presently qualified to do the work for which they are recalled without further training. Recall notices shall be sent via certified or registered mail to the employee’s last address on file with the College Office of Human Resources it being the employee’s responsibility to provide his/her current address to the Office of Human Resources. Employees must notify the Office of Human Resources of their intention to return within five (5) calendar days from the date of receipt of the recall notice. Employees who fail to respond to the recall notice or who decline a recall shall be removed from the recall list.
Article 9
CONTINUOUS RECRUITMENT PROCEDURE
I.	Continuous Recruitment
A. For purposes of this Article, a vacancy shall be defined as any permanent regular payroll position in the Non-Competitive/Labor class approved for hiring on a permanent basis except for temporary, grant funded, Grade I or the following:
-10-

Custodial Worker I	Nurse Aide I
Food Service Helper I	Park Laborer
Guard	Stock Attendant
Information Aide B. Posting The Employer shall post a listing of all Non-Competitive/Labor class positions and their locations that are eligible for bidding under continuous recruitment at all work sites.
Any newly created position or location in the Non-Competitive/Labor class shall be posted at all work sites for a period of not less then ten (10) days to establish the appropriate continuous recruitment lists. The Employer shall notify the respective unit presidents of any new position(s) or locations created in the Non-Competitive/Labor class.
C.	Bidding
Employees may submit bids for Non-Competitive/Labor class positions or locations at any time by filing a Job Bid Sheet with the Division of Employee Relations. However, bids must be received in the Division of Employee Relations not later than the close of business on any Friday or be post marked, if mailed, rtot later than midnight of that same day (Friday) in order to be certified for vacancies requested to be filled during the following business week. In all cases, it shall be the responsibility of the employee to submit a bid(s) for Non-Competitive/Labor class positions.
The bid sheet shall include a section defining department(s)/location(s) the bidder is acceptable to moving to (i.e. any open position, a particular department, particular location within a department) and must be completed by the employee.
D.	Awards
All bidders must meet the qualifications for the vacant positions at the time they submit their bid in order to be placed on a continuous recruitment eligible list. All bidders must complete a current County of Onondaga employment application prior to appointment should they be determined to be the successful bidder. For any position where the requirements and qualifications for the position are not well established, the County through the Department of Personnel, reserves the right to determine such requirements and/or qualifications.
In the event an employee submits a bid and is disqualified or if the requirements or qualifications are changed and thus cause an employee to be disqualified, the Employer shall notify the employee in writing of the disqualification. The Employer shall maintain departmental and County-wide continuous recruitment eligible lists by title. First preference in filling a vacancy shall be given to the most senior qualified employee on the departmental continuous recruitment eligible list established for that title. Second preference in filling a vacancy shall be given to the most senior qualified employee on the County-wide continuous recruitment list established for that title.
All continuous recruitment lists shall be updated by adding the names of employees in accordance with (C) above and by deleting the names of employees upon appointment in accordance with this paragraph.
The Employer shall notify the respective unit president of the department where a vacancy exists for filling under continuous recruitment. The Employer shall post a notice in the department where an appointment to a vacancy has been made from a continuous recruitment list. Updated continuous recruitment lists will be sent to all unit presidents eveiy six (6) months. Updated title deployment listings will be sent to all unit presidents on a yearly basis.
-11 -
II. Limitation
All employees must meet the qualifications to be eligible for the vacancy.
All appointments under this procedure shall be subject to an evaluation period of up to six (6) months. Any employee who is appointed to a vacancy under this Article and who fails to successfully complete the evaluation period shall have the right to return to the position he/she held prior to the appointment.
Such an employee shall not be eligible to bid on the job title for which he/she failed the evaluation for a period of six (6) months thereafter.
When an employee is offered a position to a department or location they indicated on the bid sheet would be acceptable, and the appointment is declined, such employee shall have their name removed from the list for the affected title and shall not be eligible to bid on that job title for a period of six (6) months thereafter. It is the responsibility of the employee to re-bid after the six (6) month period.
In instances of a demotion, or a lateral transfer within the department, or the filling of a position to avoid a layoff, the provisions of this Article shall be considered waived for purposes of filling vacant positions.
Any vacancy which is not filled within 45 working days after a continuous recruitment list has been issued, the department shall request a new continuous recruitment list in accordance with this Article if the appointing authority decides to fill the vacancy.
This Article shall be applicable only to employees with permanent status in a bargaining unit position except those that are serving in any probationary status or not on active payroll status (leave without pay, Workers Compensation, disciplinary suspension, etc.).
The provisions of this Article shall become effective within ninety (90) calendar days from the effective date of this agreement and shall be evaluated jointly by the Employer and union fbr a period of eighteen months thereafter. During this time, the Employer or union may propose amendments to this Article which are subject to the written approval of the other. The Employer or union may elect to terminate these provisions as amended upon written notice to the other no later than thirty calendar days prior to the expiration of the eighteen month period. In the case of termination, the provisions of Article 9 - Posting and Bidding Procedure of the 1997-2000 collective bargaining agreement shall become effective upon the expiration of the eighteen month period.
Article 10
Regular Compensation Rate
A.	Definition
The regular compensation rate is that rate reflected in the salary schedule included herein for each employee at each classification, grade and step. Said regular compensation rate does not include any premium compensation as defined herein.
B.	Applicability
A regular full-time employee's regular compensation rate is that rate as defined above and shall be paid for all worked and accrued hours unless expressly modified by this agreement.
-12-

Article 11
Premium Compensation
A.	Definition
Premium Compensation is that compensation which is in addition to the employee's regular compensation rate. Such compensation shall include but is not limited to: Overtime Compensation Premium, Shift Differential Premium, Holiday Premium, Educational Premium, Longevity Premium and Chronic Care Institutional Differential Premium.
B.	Applicability
One or more types of such premium compensation as listed above shall be applicable to all regularly scheduled full-time employees who qualify, therefore, except as limited by this agreement.
C.	Premium Compensation Limitation
Each type of premium compensation described above shall be considered and computed separately.
D.	Payment
The County agrees to pay each premium compensation earned by an employee according to its present practices.
Article 12
Overtime Compensation Premium
A.	Definition
Overtime compensation shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times (1 1/2) the regular compensation rate (base rate as set forth in Appendix A) plus shift differential premium, if applicable, for hours worked in excess of eight hours in a work day or 40 hours in the defined seven day work week with the following exceptions:
1.	Department of Long Term Care Services - Extended Care Division (Van Duyn Home and Hospital) - Overtime shall be paid for hours worked in excess of eight hours in a work day or 80 hours in a fourteen day payroll period;
2.	Department of Correction and Department of Parks and Recreation (Park Rangers) - Overtime shall be paid for hours worked in excess of eight hours in a work day or 80 hours in a fourteen day payroll period.
Employees covered under this agreement shall have the option, upon prior written request of and subject to prior authorization by the department head or authorized designee, of receiving compensatory time at the rate of time and one half (pursuant to FMCS Case No. 97-14350 [K. Chase]) in lieu of monetary compensation in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Article except as provided in paragraph B below.
B.	Applicability
The provisions of this Article shall not be applicable to classification determined to be exempt pursuant to the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act. Such determination shall not be reviewable under Article 27 Grievance and Arbitration Procedure of this agreement. Employees occupying such classifications may elect straight time cash or straight time compensatory time for time worked in excess of their normal work day or normal work period as defined under Article 7 - Work Time.
-13-
Such election shall be subject to the approval of the department head. Approved compensatory time shall be limited to a maximum accrual of 35 or 40 hours depending on the title and be expended upon prior request by the employee and approval of the department head. When the maximum accrual has been reached, all time worked in excess of the normal work day or normal work period shall be compensated at straight time cash payments.
C.	Accountability
Any unpaid absences shall not be considered as time worked for purpose of computing overtime.
D.	Availability
Overtime will be made available to the senior qualified employee in the job title which is ordinarily and customarily assigned the work by the Employer on a rotation basis insofar as practical over the period of this agreement.
Departments with the union may establish a policy that takes into account 12-D, which meets the needs of both parties.
E.	Call-In Pay
The County agrees that any employee covered by this agreement who is called into work for emergency duty shall be paid at least a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the regular rate of compensation or one and one-half times the regular rate of compensation (if overtime eligible) for actual hours worked, whichever is greater. The County maintains the right to assign or retain any employee for the duration of the call-in duty.
F.	Compensatory Time Balances
1	.) The Employer may apply the following methods to manage compensatory time balances accumulated under (A) or (B) of this Article or the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act.
a.	The Employer may opt to “cash out” (that is to pay the equivalent cash compensation on an hour for hour basis at the then current rate of pay) some or all compensatory time hours at such time or times as it may designate during any calendar year.
b.	The Employer may opt to schedule employees to expend some or all compensatory time in the form of paid absences from work at such time or times as it may designate during the calendar year.
c.	The Employer may opt to allow such accumulated compensatory time balances to remain.
2	.) In the event that the Employer decides to exercise one of the above options, the Employer shall establish a uniform amount or balance to be applied equitably to compensatory time balances within each department.
3	.) The Employer shall provide 25 working days advance notice to employees in the event it opts to initiate (1.) (b.) above.
4	.) Employees shall be able to maintain a minimum compensatory time balance of 35 or 40 hours depending upon the title.
5	.) Employees may initiate a written request to receive a “cash out” as defined in (l)(a) above of accumulated compensatory time. All such requests shall be subject to the approval of the department head and responded to in writing.
14-
G.	Ordered Overtime
It is hereby affirmed that the Employer shall maintain the right to compel overtime to be worked by employees in instances where:
a.	voluntaiy overtime arrangements have been exhausted without rendering a qualified employee available to do the work;
b.	in the event of unexpected or emergent situations where the Employer determines that a position or post must be staffed or that an assignment or work must be accomplished.
It is further affirmed that the Employer shall have the right to formulate and implement overtime policies in order to assure staffing and that such policies shall include provisions for the isolated occasion to decline ordered overtime where such declination is both reasonable and justifiable .
Article 13
Holidays and Holiday Premium
A.	Subject to the limitations as found elsewhere in this agreement the following legal holidays shall be observed by the County of Onondaga as days off with pay.
New Year's Day	Labor Day
Martin Luther King Day	Columbus Day
Lincoln's Birthday	Election Day
Washington's Birthday	Veteran's Day
Memorial Day	Thanksgiving Day
Independence Day	Christmas Day
B.	When a regularly scheduled staff employee is required to work on a holiday as listed in Section (a), said employee shall be paid his or her regular compensation rate, except for Christmas Day, New Year's Day and Thanksgiving Day, which shall be paid at the rate equal to one and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular rate of compensation, including Institutional Shift Differential Premium when applicable, for such work performed.
C.	The County agrees that employees who are required to work on a holiday as listed in Section (a) shall be compensated for such holiday by receiving equivalent straight time cash payment in Heu of the holiday.
D.	Any employee whose scheduled day off falls on a holiday or any employee who is required to work on a holiday as defined by Article 13(a) shall have the option of receiving compensatory time off in lieu of cash payment.
Employees electing this option for holiday compensatory time must provide the department head or authorized designee written notification stating both the employee's election of the compensatory time option and specifying the date the employee requests to use the compensatory time. The employee's requested date must be a date no later than six weeks following the holiday. The written notification must be provided to the department head or authorized designee no later than five (5) work days prior to the holiday.
If the employee's requested date is denied and an alternative date cannot be mutually agreed to by the employee and the department head or authorized designee, the employee shall then receive a cash payment in lieu of compensatory time as follows:
-15 -
1.	employee who was scheduled off on the holiday shall receive straight time cash payment.
2.	employee who worked on the holiday shall receive straight time and one half (1 1/2) cash payment.
E.	Eligibility
In order to be eligible for the holiday pay as defined in Section (a) and (c), those employees covered by this agreement must actually work the last scheduled work day prior to the holiday, the holiday when required to work, and the first scheduled work day after the holiday unless otherwise excused by the department head or his/her authorized designee. All regularly scheduled employees shall be obligated to work no more than seven of the holidays as enumerated in Section (a).
F.	The County shall determine the calendar date on which the holidays set forth in this Article shall be observed.
When a legal holiday occurs on a Saturday or Sunday, where the department is normally closed for business, the holiday will be observed on the Friday preceding a Saturday holiday, or on the Monday following a Sunday holiday.
For employees who work the night shift, the holiday shall be paid from the evening before the holiday to the morning of the holiday. For example, employees who work from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., the holiday shall be from 11 p.m. on the evening before the holiday to 7 a.m. on the day of the holiday.
G.	Floating Holidays
The following holidays shall be considered floating holidays: Lincoln's Birthday and Columbus Day. The parties understand and agree that sections (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this Article shall not apply for purposes of these days. Rather, in accordance with section (f) of this Article, the calendar dates on which the above holidays would be observed shall be considered regularly scheduled work days. In lieu of the benefits set forth in sections (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this Article, employees may elect to implement the holiday premium compensation as provided in section (a) of this Article for the above holidays on any two regularly scheduled work days during the calendar year in which the holidays occur, provided that 72 hours advance request is made to and approval is granted by the appointing authority. The floating holiday concept shall not be applicable to employees working in 24 hour, shift or relief type operations.
Employees hired or reinstated during any calendar year shall be eligible only for those floating holidays which fall subsequently to their date of hire or reinstatement. Employees eligible for terminal leave pursuant to Article 28 of this agreement shall be credited with any unused floating holidays which fall prior to the employee's termination date and debited with any used floating holidays which fall subsequent to the employee's termination date in accordance with the provisions for terminal leave.
Article 14
Longevity Premium
The County shall pay all regularly scheduled full-time employees and part-time employees (on a pro rata basis) who have completed 10, 15, 20 and (commencing January 1, 1970) 25 years, and for each five (5) year interval thereafter of full-time service with the County, a premium of $125.00 in equal installments which are divisible by 26 payroll periods or further subdivisions thereof, during the year in which the employee first becomes eligible for the longevity premium.
-16-
Any employee covered by this agreement hired on or after February 15, 1973 shall not be eligible for such longevity premium.
Article 15
Shift Differential
A shift differential premium of 71 cents per hour shall be paid to all employees covered by this agreement working a work shift between the hours of 3:00 PM and 7:00 AM.
Effective with the first full pay period of 2002, the premium shall be 73 cents per hour.
Effective with the first full pay period of2003, the premium shall be 75 cents per hour.
Article 16
Educational Premium Compensation
A.	An Educational Premium adjustment in the amount as set forth below shall be paid for one (1) or two (2) complete years of graduate training now in effect for employees in the Social Services and Probation Departments shall be continued for the duration of this agreement.
B.	Employees in the Social Services and Probation Departments holding certification from the State of New York as certified Social Workers, shall receive the Educational Premium adjustment for two (2) complete years of graduate training as set forth below.
C.	Any employee covered by this agreement hired on or after February 15, 1973 shall not be eligible for such educational premium.
Educational Premium Adjustment
One (1) Year of Graduate Training	Two (2) Years of Graduate Training
Grade		
1	$304	$608
2	318	636
3	332	664
4	351	702
5	378	756
6	412	824
7	445	890
8	486	972
9	530	1,060
10	572	1,144
11	613	1,226
12	654	1,308
13	727	1,454
14	807	1,614
15	890	1,780
-17-
"■■"I
Article 17
Chronic Care Institutional Differential Premium
A.	Definition
With the expressed purpose of aiding in recruitment and retention of institutional personnel, the County agrees to pay employees in the Nurse Aide I, Nurse Aide II and Health Services Worker titles covered by this agreement a Chronic Care Institutional Differential Premium (CCIDP).
B.	Applicability
Such CCIDP shall be paid at the rate of $20.00 per month to all regular scheduled full-time employees in the above mentioned titles.
C.	Limitation
Said CCIDP shall not accrue until the conclusion of three consecutive months of service with the County. At the conclusion of said three month period the CCIDP shall be applied retroactively, and thereafter shall accrue on a monthly basis. This differential shall be paid at least semiannually.
Article 18
Mileage and Parkins Reimbursement
A.	Milease Reimbursement
Employees who upon the sole direction and requirement of the Employer use their personal vehicle in pursuit of business on behalf of the Employer shall be reimbursed for incurred mileage expenses at the rate established by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
B.	Parkins Reimbursement
1.	Employees who upon the sole direction and requirement of the Employer use their personal vehicles in pursuit of business on behalf of the Employer on a regular and consistent basis may be eligible for parking reimbursement.
Eligibility shall be determined on the basis of required use or availability 50 percent or more of the work time in any month for which the reimbursement is claimed.
2.	Eligible employees shall be reimbursed for incurred parking expenses up to but not to exceed the actual rate charged based upon the rates established for the Public Safety Building/Everson Lot A and B or Lot #17. In the event that either lot ceases operation during the term of this agreement, the rate for that lot shall be replaced by the rate as determined by the formula set forth in Appendix F of this agreement.
Reimbursement shall be made to eligible employees at the rate of a one month or a three month basis upon submission of a receipt for such expenses. In the event an employee who has been reimbursed becomes ineligible or separates from employment, the employee shall return the parking permit to the Employer at its request or shall have the balance of the reimbursement returned to the Employer by payroll deduction.
C.	Payment
The Employer shall not be required to pay claims for mileage and parking reimbursement submitted to the Employer more than sixty (60) calendar days after the month being claimed for reimbursement except in cases where the amount owed is in dispute or where the employee is incapacitated due to illness.
-18-

If the Employer provides tax exempt certificates to employees, the Employer shall not be required to pay reimbursement for any sales tax as may be charged to or incurred by employees in relation to parking expenses.
Payment of mileage and parking reimbursements shall be made by means of the payroll system.
Article 19 Meal Allowance
A.	Onondaga Community College employees engaged in snow removal and any employees in Parks, Facilities Management, Transportation, Drainage & Sanitation, Metropolitan Water Board and Emergency Communications are entitled to a meal allowance at the rate of $6 per meal, when called in three (3) hours before, or required to work three (3) hours past the normal shift, [except Department of Transportation, which is two (2) hours before and three (3) hours after]. Effective with the commencement of the first full pay period of 2002, the meal allowance rate shall be $7 per meal.
B.	Institutional employees, when called upon to work in an overtime capacity, in addition to their regular duty, will be provided an appropriate meal in accordance with present practices.
C.	There will be no deduction for meal breaks in (A) or (B) above when the break does not exceed twenty (20) minutes.
D.	The meal allowance will also be applicable to employees set forth in (A) above who work through their appropriate meal period on a scheduled day off or holiday when such work is in excess of an employee’s normal schedule provided that:
1)	the employees are eligible for an appropriate meal period and
2)	the Employer is unable to provide the appropriate meal period as a result of the work requirements or circumstances at that time.
Payment of meal allowances shall be made by means of the payroll system.
Article 20
Children’s Protective Unit Compensation
Any regularly scheduled full-time employee covered by this agreement who is assigned to the Child Care Protective Unit within the Department of Social Services shall receive straight time compensation for performing the duties as scheduled by the department head or his/her authorized designee for night and weekend assignments in the following manner:
A.	Primary Worker
Thirty-two hours (32 hours) compensatory straight time off for the tour commencing Monday at 4:30 PM through Friday at 8:30 AM. Thirty two hours (32 hours) compensatory straight time off for the tour commencing Friday at 3:30 PM through Monday at 8:30 AM.
Secondary Worker
Four days (28 hours) compensatory straight time off for each seven (7) consecutive days on assignment.
19-
B.	Should a holiday fall within said seven (7) day assignment, said employee shall be entitled to one additional day off.
C.	In addition to the compensation as noted above, the secondary worker shall receive overtime compensation at the rate of time and one-half for time actually involved in the physical investigation of a charge other than by telephone.
D.	In the event that the department head or his/her authorized designee is unable to grant the earned compensatory straight time off to the employee(s) involved within thirty days following the completion of the seven (7) day consecutive assignment, the department head or his/her authorized designee may by mutual agreement with the employee involved, defer the time off to a mutually satisfactory subsequent time.
If no mutual agreement is reached to defer the earned compensatory time off and the department head or his/her authorized designee is unable to grant the time off within the thirty-day period as noted above, the employee(s) shall be paid a sum, at the regular straight time compensation rate as defined in Article 10 of the current agreement for the accumulated hours outstanding.
Article 21
Retirement
The County agrees to provide Section 75(i), 41 (j) (Sick Leave Credits and Retirement), and Section 41 (k) (World War II Veteran Service Credit), of the New York Retirement and Social Security Law for all eligible employees covered by this agreement.
Article 22
Physical Examinations - Drainage and Sanitation
The County agrees to provide one (1) appropriate physical examination as an early detection device during each contract year for employees of the Department of Drainage and Sanitation who are working in the following titles:
-20-
Closed Circuit TV Attendant
Closed Circuit TV Operator
Electrical Maintenance Coordinator
Head Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator
Heavy Equipment Mechanic Crew Leader
Heavy Equipment Mechanic I & II
Instrumentation Maintenance Coordinator
Instrumentation Crew Leader
Mechanical Maintenance Coordinator
Motor Equipment Operator I & II
Principle Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator
Pump Maintenance Worker
Pump Station Maintenance Worker I & II
Sanitary Chemist I & II
Sanitary Technician
Senior Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator
Instrumentation Mechanic (D & S)
Wastewater Treatment Plant Maintenance Crew Leader
Maintenance Electrician
Wastewater Treatment Plant Maintenance Helper (M)
Wastewater Treatment Plant Maintenance Helper (I/E)
Wastewater Treatment Plant Mechanic
Wastewater Treatment Plant Worker (M)
Wastewater Treatment Plant Worker (I/E)
Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator
Sewer Maintenance Crew Leader
Sewer Maintenance Worker I & II
Stock Clerk
Storekeeper
Stream Maintenance Crew Leader
Stream Maintenance Supervisor
Stream Maintenance Worker I & II
Wastewater Technician I & II
The physical examination shall include:
-	14” x 17" posterior/anterior chest X-rays - alternating on a biennial basis with an audiometric
examination not to exceed the cost of the chest X-ray.
-	SMA 12 with complete blood count
-	urinalysis
-	pulmonary function test
-	electrocardiogram
-	medical history	.
The parties agree that participation in the physical examination program shall be mandatory for all employees.
-21 *
Article 23
Health and Safety
A.	The County shall continue to make reasonable provisions for the health and safety of its employees during the hours of their employment. The County furthermore agrees to provide reasonable and practicable protective devices and equipment necessary to protect the employees from sickness and injury.
B.	All employees covered under this agreement shall be entitled to the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Law as provided for within the law. It is expressly agreed that this paragraph shall not be grievable nor arbitrable under Article 27 - Grievance and Arbitration Procedure of this agreement.
C.	The right of the County to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations as it may deem necessary for the purpose of maintaining order, safety and efficiency is recognized by the Civil Service Employees Association provided the same are not inconsistent with the provisions of this agreement.
D.	The Employer and Association agree to meet and discuss health and safety issues within the committees established under Article 29 - Joint Labor-Management Program of this agreement.
Article 24	.
Health and Dental Benefits
Health Benefits
The Employer agrees to provide health benefits coverage to regular full-time and regular part-time employees in the bargaining unit who submit the requisite enrollment card under the Onondaga County Health and Wellness Program (hereinafter “OnPoint Program”) developed by the Onondaga County Health Care Coalition.
Enrolled members shall contribute in the amount equal to ten (10) percent per month of the premium equivalent rate established for the OnPoint Program for individual coverage and ten (10) percent per month of the premium equivalent rate established for family coverage. The Employer shall collect such contributions by payroll deductions.
The OnPoint Program shall establish eligibility for health benefit coverage on the first day of the fourth month following the date of active employment or application for enrollment. The OnPoint Program shall provide that health benefit coverage shall terminate at the end of the calendar month following the month in which eligibility or employment terminates.
Dental Benefits
The Employer agrees to provide dental benefits coverage to members of the bargaining unit, as set forth below, who submit the requisite enrollment card under the Onondaga County Dental Program (hereinafter the “Program”) currently provided through GHI Preferred Plan.
Regular full time and regular part-time employees may enroll for individual coverage and shall contribute 35% of the premium or premium equivalent rate established by the Program for individual coverage.
-22-
I
Regular full time employees may enroll for family coverage (including eligible dependants as defined by the Program) and shall contribute 35% of the premium or premium equivalent rate established by the Program for family coverage.
The contributions shall be made retroactive to the first pay period of 2001.
Applicability
A.	The County reserves the right to self insure, alter benefit plans or change the benefit carriers for the Health and Dental Benefit program provided that any new plan or change shall be equivalent in coverage and/or benefits as provided by the above stated plans. The County shall notify the Association not less than 45 calendar days prior to the effective date of such change or alteration.
B.	No employee shall be eligible for health or dental benefits provided herein both as an employee and as a dependent or if enrolled as a dependent under any other health or dental benefit program provided by or offered through the Employer.
Article 25
Long Term Disability Benefits
A.	The Employer agrees to provide coverage under a group long term disability program to regular full-time employees and regular part-time employees who work at least twenty (20) hours per week and who submit the requisite enrollment card. For purposes of program eligibility, regular full time and regular part-time employees are required to work at least twenty (20) hours per week in order to be eligible to enroll in the program.
B.	The Employer reserves the right to self-insure, alter benefit plans or change benefit carriers provided
that any new plan or change shall be the same as or improve the coverage or benefits. The Employer shall notify the Association not less than forty-five (45) calendar days prior to the effective date of such change or alteration.
Article 26
Discipline and Discharge Procedure
The following procedures shall be the exclusive procedure utilized for disciplinary and discharge matters for all permanent employees covered by this Agreement and who have satisfactorily completed the initial probationary period with the County as provided by local Civil Service rules and regulations. It is also the intent of this Article to provide for a swift and judicious alternative for handling discipline and discharge matters in lieu of Section 75 and 76 of the New York State Civil Service Law.
Disciplinary action shall include, but is not limited to, oral and written reprimands, suspension, demotion, discharge, fines or any combination thereof or other such penalties as may be deemed appropriate by the Employer. An employee shall be entitled to representation by the CSEA at each step of the discipline and discharge procedure. An employee shall be entitled upon request to have an Association Representative present if, as a result of an investigation, an employee is asked by the Employer to sign a statement for purposes of attesting to or admitting incompetency or misconduct.
Service of the notice of discipline shall be made by personal service to the employee with the Unit President or his/her designee receiving a copy, if present at the time. If service cannot be effectuated by personal service, it shall be made by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested to the employee with a copy sent to the Unit President or his/her designee.
-23-

The notice of discipline shall contain a detailed description of the specific acts and conduct for which discipline is being sought including references to date, times and places and shall state any proposed penalty being sought. The notice of discipline shall also state that the employee has the right to appeal the disciplinary action by filing a written grievance through the Union within five (5) work days after receipt of notice of discipline if he/she disagrees with it. No disciplinary proceeding shall be commenced under this Article more than 15 months after the occurrence of the alleged acts and/or conduct complained of and described in the charges provided, however, that such limitation shall not apply where the acts and/or conduct complained of and described in the charges would, if proved in a court of appropriate jurisdiction, constitute a crime.
Employees will be presumed innocent until proven guilty and the burden of proof shall be the Employer's. Employees shall be given the opportunity to resolve the proposed discipline by settlement and to be represented by a Civil Service Employees Association representative, and waive their rights to the procedure as outlined herein. Any settlement agreed upon between the parties shall be reduced to writing with the exception of oral reprimands, which shall be the form set forth in Appendix D and shall be final and binding upon all parties subject to the approval of the Division of Employee Relations with a copy of same to the President of the Civil Service Employees Association, Local 834.
Oral Warning Notations shall lapse in effect and be expunged from the employee's record upon the expiration of twelve (12) calendar months from the date of issuance provided that the employee receives no disciplinary action for the same or similar offense within the twelve (12) month period.
In instances when disciplinary action is to be preferred against a bargaining unit employee, the employee shall not be suspended from employment prior to the completion of the third step of the discipline and discharge procedures contained in Article 27 of the current agreement unless, in the opinion of the department head and the Director of Employee Relations or their authorized designee, the employee presents a danger to the health and/or safety of one's self or another or disrupts the operation of the department where the employee is situated.
Disciplinary action against an employee, except oral reprimands, which shall be issued in accordance with the form attached hereto as Appendix D, may be appealed by filing a written grievance through the Union within five (5) work days after the receipt of such notification by the employee if he/she disagrees with the disciplinary action taken. Said grievance shall be processed by the Union as a Step Three grievance and, if necessary, through the arbitration step. In instances where an employee is suspended or terminated from employment prior to the completion of the third step of the discipline and discharge procedure contained in Article 27, a Step Three Grievance meeting shall be convened by the Employer within five (5) working days after receipt of a Step Three grievance as provided above. The Director of Employee Relations shall render a decision in writing to resolve the matter within seven (7) calendar days after conclusion of the Step Three meeting. Failure to file a grievance within the time frame herein above specified will constitute acceptance of the penalty as proposed by the Employer, by the employee and settle the matter in its entirety.
In instances where an employee has been suspended in excess of 20 working days or discharged as a result of a Step Three decision, the Union may, on behalf of the discharged employee, proceed to arbitration using the following expedited procedure.
i The Union shall notify the Director of Employee Relations of its intent to proceed to arbitration within five (5) working days after its receipt of the Step Three Decision.
-24-

ii The Union and the Employer shall appoint an arbitrator on a rotation basis from a mutually
agreed upon list of five (5) arbitrators. The arbitrator shall be responsible for conducting a
hearing within thirty (30) days of appointment.
iii The arbitrator shall render a written decision within ten (10) working days after the conclusion of the hearing.
This expedited procedure differs only in method of determining an arbitrator and in the time limits for conducting a hearing and rendering a decision. All other procedures and/or obligations of this Article have the same force and effect for this expedited procedure.
Subject to a mutual written agreement between the Civil Service Employees Association, Local 834 and the Division of Employee Relations, the time limits herein above specified may be waived.
The disciplinary arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction of authority to add to, modify, detract from or alter in any way the provisions of this agreement, or any amendments or supplement thereto or to add new provisions to this agreement or any amendment or supplement thereto.
Rather, the disciplinary arbitrator shall be limited to determining guilt or innocence and the appropriateness of the proposed penalty.
If, in any case where an employee has been suspended or discharged pending the outcome of an arbitration proceeding, an arbitrator finds that such suspension or discharge was unwarranted or that the penalty was too severe then the employee shall be reinstated and compensated for all time lost, and all other rights and conditions of employment as may be determined by the arbitrator, less the amount of compensation which he/she may have received on other employment or in the form of any type of State or Federal benefits since his/her suspension or discharge from the public service.
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties.
Article 27 Grievance and Arbitration Procedure
I.	General
A.	It is the intent of this Article to promote and provide for a mutually satisfactory procedure for the peaceful settlement of grievances arising out of the interpretation or application of the terms of this agreement.
B.	Every employee shall have the right to present his/her grievance to the County free from interference, coercion, restraint, discrimination or reprisal, and shall have the right to be represented by a Civil Service Employees Association unit representative, provided however, that an employee may not be represented by any person(s) representing any other labor organization. The Association shall have the right to submit class action grievances.
C.	Probationaiy Employees - It is agreed by and between the parties that any employee covered by this agreement working in a Probationary status may be discharged at the sole discretion of the County and shall not have the right to relief pursuant to the grievance procedure as contained herein.
D.	The time limits set forth in the Article are of the essence. They may, however, be extended by mutual written agreement of the parties. Such time limitations can be raised at any Step throughout the grievance procedure.
-25-
The failure of the grievant to proceed within the time limit set forth shall terminate the grievance at that step. The failure of the County to answer within the time limit set forth will advance the grievance to the immediate next step of the grievance procedure, upon written notice to the Employer representative at the next step of the grievance procedure.
II.	As used herein, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
A.	County shall mean County of Onondaga.
B.	Employee shall mean any person employed by the County of Onondaga and described in the bargaining unit pursuant to Article 2 of this agreement.
C.	Immediate supervisor shall be that person of the next higher level of authority, regardless of titles, who normally assigns, supervises, evaluates or approves the employee's work. The County may designate the Immediate Supervisor in a particular department if it so desires.
D.	Department Head means the person so designated pursuant to Charter, Local Law, Administrative Rule and/or Code or by resolution of the County Legislature as the head of a department.
E.	Authorized designee means the person so designated by the department head within his/her department, institution, division, bureau and/or other administrative units for the purpose of handling grievances.
F.	Work day means all days other than Saturday, Sunday or legal holidays as celebrated by the County. Saturdays, Sundays and Legal holidays shall be excluded in computing the number of legal days in which action must be taken in any step of the grievance procedure.
G.	Grievance means a claimed violation, misinterpretation or an inequitable application of a specific and express term of this agreement.
H.	Class action grievance means a claimed violation, misinterpretation or an inequitable application of a specific and express term of this agreement that affects employees in more than one department.
I.	Civil Service Employees Association Unit Representative means a person designated by the President of Civil Service Employees Association, Local 834.
Preliminary Step
An alleged grievance shall be discussed verbally between the employee(s) and their union representative and the local or immediate supervisor prior to the initiation of a written grievance, however, the time limits for initiating a written grievance shall continue unless otherwise agreed.
Step 1:
A.	In the event that the grievance is not adjusted under the Preliminary Step, the aggrieved employee may request in writing within ten (10) working days after the grievant becomes aware of the event constituting the alleged grievance for a review of the alleged grievance with the department head or his/her authorized designee and provided that the Preliminary Step has been completed.
-26-
B,	The department head or authorized designee shall meet with the grievant and union representative, to review the alleged grievance. The grievant and union representative shall attend the meeting and present facts and oral or written statements pertaining to the alleged grievance. The department head or designee shall provide a written answer to the alleged grievance within twenty (20) working days after receipt of the grievance.
Step 2:
In the event that the grievance is not adjusted under Step 1, the Association shall notify the County through the Division of Employee Relations within ten (10) working days from the date of the Step 1 answer.
A class action grievance shall be initiated in writing at this step by the CSEA Local 834 President or his/her written designee within ten (10) working days after being aware of the event constituting the alleged class action grievance.
Thereafter, the Director of Employee Relations or authorized designee shall meet with the aggrieved employee, their union representative and Labor Relations Specialist, if any, within twenty (20) working days after the notification from Step 1. Within ten (10) working days after the conclusion of the Step 2 meeting, the Director of Employee Relations or authorized designee shall render his decision in writing with copies to the grievant, Local President and Unit President to resolve the matter.
Step 3;
A.	In the event the grievance is not adjusted at the conclusion of Step 2, the Association may request in writing with a copy to the Division of Employee Relations the appointment of the arbitrator from the American Arbitration Association, Public Employment Relations Board and/or Federal Mediation & Conciliation Service within fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the decision rendered at the conclusion of Step 2.
B.	It is understood by the parties that the cost of such arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties.
C.	The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, modify, detract from, or alter in any way the provisions of the agreement or any amendment or supplement thereto or to add new provisions of this agreement or any amendment or supplement thereto.
D.	If the grievance concerns matters not covered by this agreement or the procedures contained herein
have not been adhered to, said grievance shall be returned to the parties without decision.
E.	The findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the arbitrator for resolution of the grievance shall be binding on all parties to the proceeding. Awards may not be retroactive beyond thirty (30) calendar days prior to the initiation of the alleged grievance with the County.
F.	The arbitrator’s decision shall be rendered in accordance with the time limits of the arbitration administration agency selected.

Article 28
Employee Leave Benefits
All regular full-time employees and regular part-time employees on a pro rated basis covered by this agreement shall be entitled to the following leave benefits set forth in this Article.
HOURS OF WORK
The basic work week for employees in County departments and agencies and those covered under special regulations is a 35 hour work week from 8:30 AM to 4:30 PM each business day Monday through Friday. Some departments and institutions work a 40 hour work week. Some departments also participate in a flextime project where starting times may be 8:00, 8:30 or 9:00 AM.
In departments where a deviation from the stated work hours is required schedules are determined at the discretion of the department head.
Daily time records showing actual hours worked by each employee shall be maintained. In the absence of mechanized time recording equipment, each department will use designated daily sign-in sheets.
LUNCH PERIOD
Employees not covered by special regulations shall be granted a one (1) hour lunch period each full working day, said lunch hour to be taken according to a schedule determined by the department head.
Lunch hours should not be taken before 11:00 AM nor after 2:00 PM.
REST BREAK
Each department head shall grant one (1) work break not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes during one (1) working day. Timing of the break is at the discretion of the department head.
VACATION LEAVE
Vacation leave shall be earned by full-time employees, and by part-time employees on a pro rata basis in accordance with the Leave Accrual Chart set forth in Appendix E
Vacation leave shall be fully earned, credited and available for use on the employee's anniversary date.
At the completion of one (1) full year of employment, a new employee has earned eleven (11) days of vacation leave. If desired, the employee may use five (5) days of this first year's entitlement upon completion of six (6) months of service, then leave the remaining six (6) days to be used after the employee's first anniversary date.
Employees may accumulate and carry over unused vacation credits into the following anniversary year not to exceed a total accumulation of thirty (30) vacation leave days, subject to the approval of the department head. Vacation leave days in excess of 30 days on the employee’s anniversary date shall be canceled but may be converted to sick leave subject to the approval of the department head.
-28-
Limitations;
If an observed legal holiday falls within an employee's vacation period, such day will not be charged against accumulated vacation leave credits.
Vacation leave credits will not be earned or accumulated during any month where an employee is absent without pay more than 50% of the working days.
Any vacation leave use shall be subject to approval by the department head. To assure continuation of essential public services, no more than one third (1/3) of the staff of any department or division may be granted vacation at the same time, except upon approval of the County Executive.
To insure fairness to each employee, where all other things are equal, a vacation schedule shall be established with an employee's length of continuous service in County employment as the criterion for scheduling preference.
NOTE: When leave time is requested and approved, and the employee is on such approved leave, all such days off must be charged to the approved leave category and may not be converted to any other leave category during such leave except in cases of death in the employee's immediate family as defined herein under Bereavement Leave. In such cases, up to four (4) days of vacation leave may be converted to bereavement leave.
PERSONAL LEAVE
After one (1) full year of continuous employment, and on each succeeding anniversary date, regular fulltime employees on the permanent (101) payroll earn three (3) days of personal leave to be used for religious observance or personal business. Part-time employees on the permanent (101) payroll earn personal leave on a pro rata basis. (Refer to the Leave Accrual Chart set forth in Appendix E .
Personal leave credits may not accumulate. Any credits remaining unused on the employee’s anniversary date may be converted into sick leave subject to the approval of the department head.
Personal leave is not earned during any month where an employee is absent without pay more than 50% of the working days.
TERMINAL LEAVE
Upon resignation or retirement, an employee will receive a lump sum cash payment up to a maximum of twenty-one (21) days of earned and unused vacation, eligible floating holidays, personal leave, and compensatory time credits provided that notice of resignation or retirement is on file in the Personnel Department at least two (2) weeks prior to the employee’s last day of work. Entitlement for lump sum payment is figured from the employee’s last anniversary date and must be certified by the Department of Personnel. The terminal leave entitlement for vacation leave and personal leave are calculated using the Leave Accrual Chart set forth in Appendix E . The total lump sum payment may not exceed twenty-one (21) days and employees may not be retained on the payroll in budgeted items following the last day of work in order to use any uncompensated credits.
When an employee is reinstated from resignation within one (1) year of such resignation, any unused sick leave credits, if any, which remained at the time of resignation shall be restored to the employee upon reinstatement. Upon reinstatement, the employee shall then become eligible to begin earning new vacation, personal and sick leave days.
In the event of death of an employee while on active payroll status, the Employer shall pay in a lump sum cash payment all earned and unused vacation, eligible floating holidays, personal leave and compensatory time credits to the estate of the employee.
-29-

SICK LEAVE
Full time employees on the permanent (101) payroll earn sick leave credits in accordance with the Leave Accrual Chart set forth in Appendix E limited to ten (10) days per year and subject to the provisions set forth below. Regular part-time employees on the permanent (101) payroll earn sick leave credits on a prorata basis in accordance with the Leave Accrual Chart set forth in Appendix E and subject to the provisions set forth below.
Sick leave shall not be used until an employee has completed six (6) payroll periods of continuous service.
Sick leave credits shall not be earned unless the employee is on full pay status for at least fifty percent (50%) of the working days during the payroll period. Days during which the employee is using accumulated sick leave credits shall not be considered as days on full pay status for purposes of earning sick leave.
Unused sick leave credits shall accumulate but only up to a maximum of one hundred sixty-five (165) days. Upon attaining the maximum accumulation, sick leave is no longer earned. Upon retirement, an employee who is eligible for a retirement benefit may elect to apply unused accumulated sick leave credits to his or her years of service for purposes of increasing the retirement benefit. Such credits may not be used for purposes of becoming eligible for a retirement benefit.
When an employee must be absent on sick leave, the employee shall report same to the department head as near as possible to the normal starting time. Departments which require replacement for absent employees may require earlier notification time.
In case of failure to report, unless for reasons satisfactory to the department head, the absence shall not be deducted from sick leave credits but shall be considered as time off without pay.
Sick leave credits may be used by the employee in units of days, half days, or hours when the employee is incapacitated or unable to perform the duties of his or her position by reason of sickness, injury, temporary disability, or for dental or medical visits which may not be accomplished after working hours.
Sick leave credits, not to exceed a total of ten (10) days in any calendar year, may be used for verified serious illness in the employee's immediate family requiring care and attendance by the employee. Immediate family shall include spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, or any other relatives who are actual members of the employee's household.
A physician's statement verifying the employee's incapacity or inability to perform the job duties shall be required upon the request of the department head in case of:
A.	absence of three (3) consecutive work days or more;
B.	sick leave taken on day(s) where paid leave credits or absence(s) have been previously requested and disapproved;
C.	for sick leave taken immediately preceding or following vacation days or holidays;
D.	sick leave taken on more than one holiday in a calendar year on which the employee is scheduled and required to work;
E.	unverified absence in excess of seven (7) days (or the equivalent in hours) in a calendar year except for employees who have one hundred and sixty-five (165) days of sick leave and for employees scheduled on a twelve (12) hour shift schedule in which case shall be in excess of six (6) days or 72 hours.
-30-
Further verification of illness may be requested at the department head's discretion if the attending physician's statement is considered incomplete. If the employee fails to submit sufficient proof of illness ye	when required to do so, or if in the department head's judgment the submitted proof does not justify the
et	employee's absence, such absence shall be considered time off without pay.
o-le	Upon return from sick leave of thirty (30) days or more, the employee shall submit to the department head
a physician's statement attesting to the employee's recovery and physical fitness to perform the duties of his or her assignment.
When sick leave credits have been exhausted, absence for illness may be charged against annual leave, it	personal leave or compensatory time credits at the employee's option, but thereafter shall be absence
g	without pay.
g
Whenever possible, such as for scheduled hospital or office visits, requests for sick leave are to be made in written form and approved by the department head in advance of the date leave is to be taken.
>. e r	EXTENDED SICK LEAVE
r
Employees with five (5) or more years of satisfactory service may receive additional sick leave with full pay in the case of verified serious and protracted illness, after all other credits have been exhausted.
s
s	Such additional sick leave may be granted at the discretion of the department head and with the approval of
the Commissioner of Personnel and shall be up to one (1) calendar month for those having five (5) years and up to ten (10) years employment, two (2) calendar months for an employee with ten (10) to fifteen (15) s	years of service, and maximum of three (3) calendar months for an employee with fifteen (15) or more
years of service. Extended sick leave may be utilized by eligible employees for the total entitlement as listed above, however, the entitlement may be granted only once during the employee's tenure.
J
’	For example, an employee who is entitled to one (1) month and uses only two (2) weeks may, at the
department head's discretion, use the remaining two (2) weeks at some future date if necessary, however, such employee will not be eligible for additional extended sick leave after ten (10) to fifteen (15) years of service.
Calculation of remaining extended sick leave credits is based on the number of work days in the calendar month(s) originally requested.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
For employees on the permanent (101) payroll leave of absence with pay because of death in an employee's immediate family may be granted for up to four (4) working days. Immediate family includes spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, a person occupying the position of a parent or child, or a close relative who is an actual member of the employee's household.
Leave with pay of two (2) working days may be granted to employees in the event of death of grandparents and in-laws.
Leave with pay of one (1) working day may be granted to employees in the event of death of other near relatives such as the employee's aunts, uncles, first cousins.
NOTE: Aunts, uncles, cousins and grandparents of an employee's spouse are not considered near relatives for purposes of granting bereavement leave.
-31-
JURY DUTY AND COURT ATTENDANCE
Upon showing of proof five (5) days in advance of a call to jury duty or to attend court pursuant to a subpoena or other court order not as a party to the litigation, an employee scheduled to work shall be granted leave with pay for such purpose by the department head, less any per diem compensation received by the employee in connection with the performance of jury duty. Such leave with pay shall be applied, regardless of shift assignment, in units of days or half days, depending on the schedule of jury duty service. Employees who are placed on an "on-call" status by the jury shall be required to report for work if so scheduled and shall be released for jury duty in the event the employee is summoned. Employees who are scheduled to work Saturdays and Sundays will have their work schedules adjusted to work Monday through Friday during jury duty except in instances of bona fide emergencies where the employee is needed to work and cannot be replaced.
CIVIL SERVICE EXAMINATIONS
Employees with permanent Civil Service status on the (101) payroll shall be allowed time off with pay to take open competitive or promotional examinations held for any positions under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Personnel, if such examination is scheduled during the employee's regular work hours.
A provisional employee shall be allowed time off with pay to take the examination for the position in which he or she is serving provisionally, if such examination is scheduled during the employee's regular work hours.
Employees will not be required to work eight (8) hours immediately preceding the examination, but shall instead be rescheduled to provide for this time off.
CHILDBIRTH LEAVE
Employees shall be entitled to a leave of absence without pay for childbirth as follows:
An employee covered by this agreement shall be granted childbirth leave provided written notification is submitted to the supervisor, at least four (4) weeks prior to the anticipated departure, stating the probable date of departure and duration of leave. Such leave shall be granted for a period of up to six (6) months, and upon further written request by the employee, the department head may extend the leave for an additional six (6) months. In no case shall the total period of leave exceed twelve (12) months..
In no case shall the employee be required to leave prior to childbirth unless in the opinion of the department head, the performance or attendance of the employee becomes unsatisfactory.
Accumulated sick leave credits may be used for any time during pregnancy, delivery, or recovery, when sickness or disability would prevent the employee from performing the normal duties at work. The provisions governing use of such leave pursuant to the Sick Leave Section of this agreement shall apply when sick leave is used for this purpose.
Granting of childbirth leave shall not prevent the abolition of a position, and/or termination of an employee due to reorganization, lack of funds or other reason unrelated to childbirth.
-32-
EMERGENCY SERVICE PROVIDERS
be 'ed ed,
ce.
so ire
Employees who are members of a volunteer fire department and/or ambulance squadron shall be eligible for excused tardiness and absences attributable to the provision of emergency services in a volunteer fire department and/or ambulance squadron without charge to leave accruals upon prior certification by the department head. Certification of employees shall be in the discretion of the department head upon submission of proper written documentation establishing the current and continuing membership of the employee in a volunteer fire department and/or ambulance squadron.
gh rk
Absence or Tardiness
In the event a certified employee is absent from work or reports for work beyond the scheduled
reporting times due to the provision of emergency service, employees shall report such absence or tardiness as soon as possible to the department head. The employee shall upon returning to work submit an official written statement from the officer in charge of the fire department or ambulance squadron stating the employee's name, time of alarm, time of release, and a description of the emergency verifying the absence or tardiness. Upon approval of the department head such absence
to le
or tardiness shall be excused without charge to leave accruals.
in ir
C. Release from Work
In the event a certified employee receives a call to respond to an emergency while the employee is at
work, the employee shall be released from work upon approval of the department head. The employee shall upon returning to work submit an official written statement from the officer in charge
of the fire department or ambulance squadron stating the employee's name, time of alarm, time of release and a description of the emergency verifying the release or absence. Upon approval of the
department head such release or absence shall be excused without charge to leave accruals.
Article 29
Joint Labor Management Program
With the express purpose of fostering a harmonious relationship, the administration of the employees covered by this agreement in their respective departments and agencies and the duly authorized
representative of the Association shall establish a Joint Labor-Management Program for the purpose of
providing communication and discussion for attempted resolution of employment problems between the
respective administrators and the employees.
Article 30
Productivity - Efficiency Clause
The Civil Service Employees Association and the County recognize the paramount importance of delivering the public service in the most efficient, effective and courteous manner.
The Civil Service Employees Association recognizes the County's rights and responsibility to establish and/or revise performance standards or norms notwithstanding the existence of prior performance levels, norms or standards. Such standards developed by usual work measurement procedures may be used to deem acceptable work performance levels, prepare work schedules and to measure the performance of each employee or group of employees.
Experience indicates that it is important to involve employees in the process of implementing such procedures and the Civil Service Employees Association agrees to appoint an appropriate committee to meet with the Division of Employee Relations for the purpose of assisting in the development and implementation of such procedures.
-33-
.	Article 31
On-Call
On-call assignments which presently exist absent an agreement or any subsequent on-call assignments which are required by the Employer, shall be covered by written agreements between the Union and the County which provide for:
1)	the terms and conditions of the on-call assignments with respect to time spent on call;
2)	the terms and conditions of any work performed during such assignment which may not be
covered by this agreement.
Article 32 Employee Property Damage
All departments shall utilize a process for reviewing employee property damage claims not inconsistent with that established by the County Executive and Onondaga County Legislature.
Article 33
Probation Department Premium Compensation
The Employer and Union recognize the special and unique working conditions and training required of Probation Officers and Probation Supervisors as well as the value of experience gained through continuity of performance on the job in capacities which exceed regular or usual expectations. In relation to these factors, the following premium compensation is established effective the first full pay period of 2002:
A)	Enhanced Supervision Premium Compensation - Members of the Probation Department in the title of Probation Officer who are assigned by the Employer to perform Enhanced Supervision Hours shall be paid a premium compensation of one and one-half times their regular rate of compensation limited to 7 hours per month worked between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight on a Friday and/or Saturday or additional hours or special assignments as may be authorized by the Commissioner of Probation provided, however, that a minimum of 14 hours of Enhanced Supervision Hours are actually worked. Probation Supervisors shall also be eligible for such premium compensation when assigned by the Employer to special details comprised of Enhanced Supervision Hours.
B)	Compensatory Time Redemption. Members of the Probation Department in the titles of Probation Officer Trainee, Probation Officer and Probation Supervisor shall be eligible to redeem accumulated compensatory time that is earned in accordance with Article 12 - Overtime Premium Compensation of this Agreement for straight time cash payment at their regular rate of compensation. Applications for payment must be made by eligible members on or before October 15th of each calendar year. Payments shall be made by the Employer on or before December 15th of each calendar year. The maximum cash payment permitted for any member shall be $750 per calendar year unless otherwise approved by the Employer. The Employer reserves the right to redeem accumulated compensatory time earned by members as provided in Article 12 - Overtime Compensation Premium of this Agreement.
-34-
Article 34 Tardiness/Attendance Rule nents
d the	Tardiness will not be tolerated and will result in loss of pay as determined by the following schedule:
Tardy:
it be
0 min. through 7* min.
8 min. through 22* min.
23 min. through 37* min.
38 min. through 52* min.
53 min. through 60* min.
Loss of:
accumulated/payroll period = 0
accumulated/payroll period - 15 min. accumulated/payroll period = 30 min. accumulated/payroll period = 45 min. accumulated/payroll period = 60 min.
tent
♦Cumulative per/day/payroll period.
In excess of 60 minutes shall be computed as noted above. In addition to the loss of pay, employee tardiness will be subject to review for disciplinary action up to and including discharge.
of	Tardiness due to snow storms, natural disasters or other major calamities, if supported by reasons acceptable
ity	to the department head, may be excused and will not result in loss of pay or disciplinary action for the period
c»	of tardiness or absence.
tie
n-s	Article 35
on	Conformity to Law
a
lie	.
This agreement and its component provisions are subordinate to any present or future Federal or New York jh	laws and regulations. If any Federal or New York law or regulation, or the final decisions of any Federal or
!(j	New York court or administrative agency affects any provisions of this agreement, each such provision will
be deemed amended to the extent necessary to comply with such law, regulation or decision, but otherwise ,n	this agreement will not be affected,
n n >f
Article 36 f	Ratification of Agreement
r 3
;	It is understood between the parties that no provisions contained within this agreement are binding upon
either party until this agreement has been reduced to writing, ratified by the Association and duly approved, ratified and executed by the Onondaga County Legislature. It is further understood between the parties that the Onondaga County Legislature reserves the right to approve or reject any provisions of this agreement together with the whole thereof.
r 35 -
Article 37 Terms of Agreement
The terms of this agreement and each of its provisions unless otherwise provided shall be effective as of the date of adoption of this Agreement by the Onondaga County Legislature and continue in full force and effect until December 31, 2004. Retroactivity of benefits as of the second pay period of 2001 shall be expressly limited to Article 10 - Regular Compensation Rate, Article 12 - Overtime Compensation Premium (A) and (E) and Article 13 - Holidays and Holiday Premium.
ONONDAGA COUNTY EMPLOYEES
APPROVED AS TO FORM:	DATED THIS:„
DAY OF 2001 AT SYRACUSE, NEW YORK.
COUNTY ATTORNEY
-36-
■
APPENDIX A SALARIES
1.	Rates of Pay
and
,be	a. The parties agree that for purposes of compensation and computation regarding the terms of
—	this agreement, the hourly rates of pay shown on Hourly Schedule 2001, 2002, 2003 and
2004 shall be applied to all employees in titles designated as non-exempt under the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act respective of their hourly work schedule except as provided in (b) and (c) of this section. For purposes of compensation and computation regarding the terms of this agreement, the bi-weekly salary shown on Bi-Weekly Salaiy Schedule 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 shall be applied to all employees in titles designated as exempt under the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act except as provided in (b) and (c) of this section.
The annual rates of pay illustrate a suggested base annual salary without premium compensation applications.
Method of payment (either hourly rate or bi-weekly salary) shall not affect the eligibility of employees for premium compensation according to the terms of this agreement.
b.	The Bi-Weekly Salary Schedule 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 shall be applied to employees currently paid on a bi-weekly salary basis for purposes of compensation and computation regarding the terms of this agreement. The annual rates of pay illustrate a suggested base annual salary without premium compensation applications.
c.	The OCC Annual Salary Schedule 2001,2002,2003 and 2004 shall be applied to employees of Onondaga Community College for purposes of compensation and computation regarding the terms of this agreement.
2.	Hourly Schedules
a.	2001 Effective upon the adoption of this agreement by the Onondaga County Legislature and retroactive to time covered in pay checks dated January 19, 2001 the following Hourly Schedule 2001 shall apply to employees as provided in paragraph 1(a) of this Appendix who are on the payroll as of March 29,2001.
b.	2002 Effective with the commencement of the first full payroll period after January 1, 2002, the following Hourly Schedule 2002 shall apply to employees as provided in paragraph 1(a) of this Appendix.
c.	2003 Effective with the commencement of the first full payroll period after January 1,2003, the following Hourly Schedule 2003 shall apply to employees as provided in paragraph 1(a) of this Appendix.
d.	2004 Effective with the commencement of the first full payroll period after January 1, 2004, the following Hourly Schedule 2004 shall apply to employees as provided in paragraph 1(a) of this Appendix.
-37-
3.	Bi-Weekly Salary Schedules
a.	2001	Effective upon the adoption of this agreement by the Onondaga County Legislature
and retroactive to time covered in pay checks dated January 19,2001 the following Bi-Weekly Salary Schedule 2001 shall apply to employees who are on the payroll as of March 29,2001 as provided in paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) of this Appendix.
b.	2002 Effective with the commencement of the first full payroll period after January 1, 2002, the following Bi-Weekly Salary Schedule 2002 shall apply to employees as provided in paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) of this Appendix.
c.	2003 Effective with the commencement of the first full payroll period after January 1, 2003, the following Bi-Weekly Salary Schedule 2003 shall apply to employees as provided in paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) of this Appendix.
d.	2004 Effective with the commencement of the first full payroll period after January 1, 2004, the following Bi-Weekly Salary Schedule 2004 shall apply to employees as provided in paragraphs 1(a) and 1(b) of this Appendix.
4.	OCC Annual Salary Schedules
a.	2001 Effective upon the adoption of this agreement by the Onondaga County Legislature and retroactive to time covered in paychecks dated January 26,2001 the following OCC Annual Salary Schedule 2001 shall apply to employees who are on the payroll as of March 29,2001 as provided in paragraph 1(c) of this Appendix.
b.	2002 Effective with the commencement of the first full payroll period after January 1, 2002, the following OCC Annual Salary Schedule 2002 shall apply to employees as provided in paragraph 1(c) of this Appendix.
c.	2003 Effective with the commencement of the first full payroll period after January 1, 2003, the following OCC Annual Salary Schedule 2003 shall apply to employees as provided in paragraph 1(c) of this Appendix.
d.	2004 Effective with the commencement of the first full payroll period after January 1, 2004, the following OCC Annual Salary Schedule 2004 shall apply to employees as provided in paragraph 1(c) of this Appendix.
5.	a. INCUMBENT EMPLOYEES
Employees who are hired into a bargaining unit title prior to the date of adoption of this agreement by the Onondaga County Legislature shall be placed into Column A of the Salary Schedule in effect at the time of their hire. Upon successful completion of one (1) year of satisfactory service, said employees shall receive a lateral advancement into Column Z of the Salary Schedule in effect at that time.
b. NEW HIRE EMPLOYEES
Employees who are hired into a bargaining unit title on or after the date of adoption of this agreement by the Onondaga County Legislature shall be placed into Column A of the Salary Schedule in effect at the time of their hire. Lateral advancement from Step A to Step 2, Step 2 to Step 3 and Step 3 to Step Z within the Salary Schedules in effect shall be based upon the following:
-38-
-upon successful completion of one (1) year of satisfactory service - Step 2 lature	-upon successful completion of two (2) years of satisfactory service - Step 3
lwing	-upon successful completion of three (3) years of satisfactory service - Step Z
tyroll l	c. ADVANCED STEP HIRING
The Employer shall have the right to slot new hire employees into steps other than step A for ry 1(	purposes of competition in recruitment or to take into account skill or experience for the position,
es as	All slotting provided in this section shall be subject to the approval of the Commissioner of
Personnel.
y 1,	6. PROMOTIONAL PROCEDURE
>s as
An employee who is promoted within the bargaining unit from a lower classification to a higher classification shall be slotted into the first step of the higher classification which provides at least y is	$300 more than the rate the employee is earning at the time of promotion. This slotting applies
s as	only to the regular rate of compensation and is not compounded by any form of premium
compensation. Upon successful completion of the probationary period or one (1) year of satisfactory service in the higher classification whichever occurs first the employee shall be slotted into the step in the higher classification corresponding to the step held in the lower classification at the time of promotion. Thereafter, lateral advancement shall be based upon successful completion ure	of one (1) year of satisfactory service in order to be eligible to move to the next immediate step
jng	within the Salary Schedule in effect,
the
7. It is agreed that all slotting, lateral advancement and rate changes provided in Section 5 and Section 6 of this Appendix shall become effective at the beginning of the first full pay period after j	eligibility date.
>es
1, es
1, ;s
t
t
-39-
2001 CSEA HRLY SALARY SCHEDULE	2002 CSEA HRLY SALARY SCHEDULE	2003 CSEA HRLY SALARY SCHEDULE	2004 CSEA HRLY SALARY SCHEDULE
GRADE		A	2	3	Z		GRADE	A	2	3	Z	GRADE		A	2	3	Z	GRADE		A	2	3	Z
1	ANNUAL*	18,808	19,466	20,125	20,804	1	ANNUAL*	19,466	20,148	20,829	21,532	1	ANNUAL*	20,148	20,853	21,558	22,286	1	ANNUAL*	20,903	21,635	22,367	23,122
	70 HR	10.3341	10.6958	11.0575	11.4309		70 HR	10.6958	11.0702	11.4445	11.8310		70 HR	11.0702	11.4577	11.8451	12.2451		70 HR	11.4853	11.8874	12.2893	12.7043
	80 HR	9.0421	9.3586	9.6750	10.0018		SOHR	9.3586	9.6862	10.0136	10.3519		80 HR	9.6862	10.0252	10.3641	10.7142		80 HR	10.0494	10.4011	10.7528	11.1160
2	ANNUAL*	19,626	20,313	21,000	21,714	2	ANNUAL*	20,313	21,024	21,735	22,474	2	ANNUAL*	21,024	21,760	22,496	23,260	2	ANNUAL*	21,813	22,576	23,340	24,133
	70 HR	10.7837	11.1611	11.5386	11.9306		70 HR	11.1611	11.5517	11.9425	12.3482		70 HR	11.5517	11.9560	12.3605	12.7804		70 HR	11.9849	12.4044	12.8240	13.2597
	80 HR	9.4363	9.7666	10.0968	10.4398		80 HR	9.7666	10.1084	10.4502	10.8052		80 HR	10.1084	10.4622	10.8160	11.1834		80 HR	10.4875	10.8545	11.2216	11.6028
3	ANNUAL*	20,459	21,175	21,891	22,639	3	ANNUAL*	21,175	21,916	22,657	23,431	3	ANNUAL*	21,916	22,683	23,450	24,251	3	ANNUAL*	22,738	23,534	24,330	25.161
	70 HR	11.2412	11.6346	12.0281	12.4389		70 HR	11.6346	12.0418	12.4491	1Z8743		70 HR	12.0418	12.4633	12.8848	13.3249		70 HR	12.4934	12.9307	13.3680	13.8246
	80 HR	9.8356	10.1798	10.5241	10.8834		80 HR	10.1798	10.5361	10.8924	11.2643		80 HR	10.5361	10.9049	11.2736	11.6586		80 HR	10.9312	11.3138	11.6964	12.0958
4	ANNUAL*	21,555	22,310	23,064	23,857	4	ANNUAL*	22,310	23,091	23,871	24,692	4	ANNUAL*	23,091	23,899	24,707	25,556	4	ANNUAL*	23,956	24,795	25,634	26,514
	70 HR	11.8436	12.2581	12.6727	13.1081		70 HR	12.2581	12.6871	13.1162	13.5669		70 HR	12.6871	13.1311	13.5753	14.0417		70 HR	13.1629	13.6235	14.0844	14.5683
	80 HR	10.3627	10.7254	11.0881	11.4692		80 HR	10.7254	11.1008	11.4762	11.8706		80 HR	11.1008	11.4893	11.8779	12.2861		80 HR	11.5171	11.9201	12.3233	12.7468
5	ANNUAL*	23,180	23,991	24,802	25,662	5	ANNUAL*	23,991	24,831	25,671	26,560	5	ANNUAL*	24,831	25,700	26,569	27,489	5	ANNUAL*	25,762	26,664	27,565	28,520
	70 HR	12.7362	13.1820	13.6277	14.0998		70 HR	13.1820	13.6434	14.1047	14.5933		70 HR	13.6434	14.1209	14.5984	15.1041		70HR	14.1550	14.6504	15.1458	15.6705
	80 HR	11.1445	11.5346	11.9246	12.3379		80 HR	11.5346	11.9383	12.3420	12.7697		80 HR	11.9383	12.3561	12.7740	13.2166		80 HR	12.3860	12.8195	13.2530	13.7122
6	ANNUAL*	25,212	26,094	26,977	27,920	6	ANNUAL*	26,094	27,008	27,921	28,897	6	ANNUAL*	27,008	27,953	28,898	29,908	6	ANNUAL-	28,020	29,001	29,982	31,030
	70 HR	13.8527	14.3375	14.8224	15.3404		70 HR	14.3375	14.8393	15.3412	15.8773		70 HR	14.8393	15.3587	15.8781	16.4330		70 HR	15.3958	15.9347	16.4735	17.0492
	80 HR	12.1217	12.5460	12.9702	13.4234		80 HR	12.5460	1Z9851	13.4242	13.8932		80 HR	12.9851	13.4396	13.8940	14.3795		80 HR	13.4723	13.9436	14.4150	14.9187
7	ANNUAL*	27,138	28,088	29,038	30,060	7	ANNUAL*	28,088	29,071	30,054	31,112	7	ANNUAL*	29,071	30,089	31,106	32,201	7	ANNUAL-	30,161	31,217	32,273	33,408
	70 HR	14.9111	15.4330	15.9549	16.5163		70 HR	15.4330	15.9732	16.5133	17.0944		70 HR	15.9732	16.5323	17.0913	17.6927		70 HR	16.5722	17.1523	17.7322	18.3562
	80 HR	13.0465	13.5031	13.9598	14.4512		80 HR	13.5031	13.9757	14.4484	14.9570		80 HR	13.9757	14.4648	14.9541	15.4805		80 HR	14.4998	15.0072	15.5149	16.0610
8	ANNUAL*	29,570	30,605	31,640	32,761	8	ANNUAL*	30,605	31,676	32,747	33,908	8	ANNUAL*	31,676	32,784	33,893	35,095	8	ANNUAL-	32,864	34,014	35,164	33,411
	70 HR	16.2471	16.8157	17.3844	18.0008		70 HR	16.8157	17.4042	17.9929	18.6308		70 HR	17.4042	18.0133	18.6227	19.2829		70 HR	18.0569	18.6888	19.3211	20.0060
	80 HR	14.2172	14.7148	15.2124	15.7519		80 HR	14.7148	15.2298	15.7448	16.3032		80 HR	15.2298	15.7628	16.2959	16.8738		80 HR	15.8009	16.3539	16.9070	17.5065
9	ANNUAL*	32,176	33,302	34,428	35,657	9	ANNUAL*	33,302	34,468	35,633	36,905	9	ANNUAL*	34,468	35,674	36,880	38,197	9	ANNUAL*	35,760	37,012	38,263	39,629
	70 HR	17.6790	18.2978	18.9165	19.5918		70 HR	18.2978	18.9382	19.5786	20.2775		70 HR	18.9382	19.6010	20.2639	20.9872		70 HR	19.6484	20.3360	21.0238	21.7742
	80 HR	15.4694	16.0108	16.5523	17.1431		80 HR	16.0108	16.5712	17.1316	17.7431		80 HR	16.5712	17.1512	17.7312	18.3641		80 HR	17.1926	17.7944	18.3961	19.0528
10	ANNUAL*	34,623	35,835	37,047	38,377	10	ANNUAL*	35,835	37,089	38,344	39,720	10	ANNUAL*	37,089	38,388	39,686	41,110	10	ANNUAL-	38,480	39,827	41,174	42,652
	70 HR	19.0239	19.6897	20.3556	21.0862		70 HR	19.6897	20.3788	21.0680	21.8242		70 HR	20.3788	21.0921	21.8054	22.5880		70 HR	21.1430	21.8831	22.6231	23.4351
	80 HR	16.6453	17.2279	17.8105	18.4498		80 HR	17.2279	17.8309	18.4339	19.0955		80 HR	17.8309	18.4550	19.0791	19.7638		80 HR	18.4996	19.1471	19.7946	20.5049
11	ANNUAL*	37,056	38,353	39,650	41,079	11	ANNUAL*	38,353	39,695	41,037	42,517	11	ANNUAL*	39,695	41,084	42,474	44,005	11	ANNUAL*	41,184	42,625	44,066	45,655
	70 HR	20.3603	21.0729	21.7855	22.5711		70 HR	21.0729	21.8105	22.5480	23.3611		70 HR	21.8105	22.5739	23.3372	24.1787		70 HR	22.6284	23.4204	24.2123	25.0854
	80 HR	17.8161	18.4397	19.0632	19.7508		80 HR	18.4397	19.0851	19.7304	20.4421		80 HR	19.0851	19.7531	20.42.10	21.1576		80 HR	19.8008	20.4938	21.1868	21.9510
12	ANNUAL*	39,501	40,884	42,267	43,797	12	ANNUAL*	40,884	42,315	43,746	45,330	12	ANNUAL*	42,315	43,796	45,277	46,916	12	ANNUAL*	43,902	45,438	46,975	48,676
	70 HR	21.7041	22.4637	23.2234	24.0642		70 HR	22.4637	23.2499	24.0362	24.9064		70 HR	23.2499	24.0636	24.8775	25.7781		70 HR	24.1218	24.9660	25.8104	26.7448
	SOHR	18.9920	19.6567	20.3214	21.0572		80 HR	19.6567	20.3447	21.0326	21.7942		80 HR	20.3447	21.0568	21.7687	225570		80 HR	21.1076	21.8464	22.5850	23.4029
13	ANNUAL*	43,821	45,355	46,889	48,597	13	ANNUAL*	45,355	46,943	48,530	50,298	13	ANNUAL*	46,943	48,585	50,229	52,058	13	ANNUAL*	48,703	50,407	52,112	54,011
	70 HR	24.0777	24.9204	25.7631	26.7016		70 HR	24.9204	25.7926	26.6648	27.6362		70 HR	25.7926	26.6953	27.5981	28.6035		70 HR	26.7598	27.6964	28.6330	29.6761
	80 HR	21.0685	21.8059	22.5433	23.3644		80 HR	21.8059	22.5691	23.3323	24.1822		80 HR	22.5691	23.3590	24.1489	25.0286		80 HR	23.4154	24.2350	25.0545	25.9672
14	ANNUAL*	48,532	50,231	51,929	53,831	14	ANNUAL*	50,231	51,989	53,747	55,715	14	ANNUAL*	51,989	53,808	55,628	57,665	14	ANNUAL*	53,938	55,826	57,714	59,828
	70 HR	26.6660	27.5993	28.5326	29.5775		70 HR	27.5993	28.5653	29.5312	30.6127		70 HR	28.5653	29.5651	30.5648	31.6841		70 HR	29.6365	30.6738	31.7110	32.8723
	80 HR	23.3324	24.1490	24.9657	25.8799		80 HR	24.1490	24.9942	25.8395	26.7857		SOHR	24.9942	25.8690	26.7439	27.7232		80 HR	25.9315	26.8391	27.7468	28.7628
15	ANNUAL*	53,433	55,303	57,173	59,276	15	ANNUAL*	55,303	57,239	59,174	61,351	15	ANNUAL*	57,239	59,242	61,246	63,498	15	ANNUAL*	59,385	61,464	63,542	65,879
	70 HR	29.3588	30.3864	31.4139	32.5694		70 HR	30.3864	31.4499	32.5134	33.7093		70 HR	31.4499	32.5506	33.6514	34.8891		70 HR	32.6293	33.7712	34.9133	36.1974
	80 HR	25.6895	26.5886	27.4878	28.4988		SOHR	26.5886	27.5192	28.4499	29.4963		80 HR	27.5192	28.4824	29.4456	30.5287		80 HR	28.5512	29.5505	30.5498	31.6735
-40-
G 1	2001CSEA BI-WKLY SALARY SCHEDULE				Z 20.804 800.16 800.16	1	2002 CSEA BI-WKLY SALARY SCHEDULE					2003 CSEA BI-WKLY SALARY SCHEDULE						2004 CSEA BI-WKLY SALARY SCHEDULE						
	RADE ANNUAL* 70 Bl-W 80 Bl-W	A 18,808 723.40 723.40	2 19,466 748.72 748.72	3 20.125 774.04 774.04			GRADE ANNUAL* 70 Bl-W 80 Bl-W	A 19,466 748.72 748.72	2 20,148 774.93 774.93	3 20,829 801.13 801.13	Z 21.532 828.17 828.17	GRADE		A 20,148 774.93 774.93	2 20,853 802.05 80205	3 21,558 829.17 829.17	Z 22,286 857.16 857.16	1	GRADE ANNUAL* 70 Bl-W 80 Bl-W	A 20,903 803.99 803.99	2 21,635 832.13 832.13	3 22,367 860.26 860.26	Z 23,122 689.30 889.30	
												1	ANNUAL* 70 Bl-W 80 Bl-W											
2	ANNUAL*	19,626	20,313	21,000	21,714	2	ANNUAL*	20.313	21,024	21,735	22,474	2	ANNUAL*	21,024	21,760	22,496	23.260	2	ANNUAL*	21,813	22,576	23,340	24,133	
	70 Bl-W	754.91	781.33	807.75	835.19		70 Bl-W	781.33	808.68	836.02	864.42		70 Bl-W	808.66	836.98	865.28	894.67		70 Bl-W	839.01	868.37	897.73	928.22	
	80BHN	754.91	781.33	807.75	835.19		80 Bl-W	781.33	808.68	836.02	864.42		80 Bl-W	80866	836.98	865.28	894.67		80 Bl-W	839.01	868.37	897.73	928.22	
3	ANNUAL*	20,459	21.175	21,891	22,639	3	ANNUAL*	21,175	21,916	22.657	23.431	3	ANNUAL*	21,916	22,683	23,450	24,251	3	ANNUAL*	22,738	23,534	24,330	25,161	
	70 Bl-W	786.89	814.43	841.97	870.72		70BI-W	814.43	842.94	871.44	901.20		70 Bl-W	642.94	872.44	901.94	932.74		70 Bl-W	874.55	905.16	935.76	967.72	
	80 Bl-W	786.89	814.43	841.97	870.72		80 Bl-W	814.43	842.94	871.44	901.20		80 Bl-W	842.94	872.44	901.94	932.74		80 Bl-W	874.55	905.16	935.76	967.72	
4	ANNUAL*	21,555	22,310	23,064	23.857	4	ANNUAL*	22,310	23,091	23,871	24,692	4	ANNUAL*	23,091	23,899	24,707	25,556	4	ANNUAL*	23,956	24,795	25,634	26.514	
	70 Bl-W	82906	858.08	887.09	917.56		70 Bl-W	858.08	888.11	91814	949.67		70 Bl-W	888.11	919.19	950.27	982.91		70 Bl-W	921.41	953.66	985.91	1,019.77	
	80 Bl-W	829.06	858.08	887.09	917,56		80 Bl-W	858.08	888.11	918.14	949.67		80 Bl-W	888.11	919.19	950.27	982.91		80 Bl-W	921.41	953.66	985.91	1,019.77	
5	ANNUAL*	23,180	23,991	24,802	25,662	S	ANNUAL*	23,991	24,831	25,671	26,560	5	ANNUAL*	24,831	25,700	26,569	27,489	5	ANNUAL*	25,762	26.664	27,565	28,520	
	70 Bl-W	891.56	922.76	953.97	987.03		70 Bl-W	922.76	955.06	987.36	1,021.58		70 Bl-W	955.06	988.49	1,021.92	1,057.34		70 Bl-W	990.87	1,025.56	1,060.24	1,096.99	
	80 Bl-W	891.56	922.76	953.97	987.03		80 Bl-W	922.76	955.06	987.36	1,021.58		80 Bl-W	955.06	988.49	1,021.92	1,057.34		80 Bl-W	990.87	1,025.56	1,060.24	1,096.99	
6	ANNUAL*	25.212	26,094	26.977	27,920	6	ANNUAL*	26,094	27,008	27.921	28,897	6	ANNUAL*	27,008	27,953	28,898	29,908	6	ANNUAL*	28,020	29,001	29,982	31,030	
	70 Bl-W	969.74	1,003.68	1,037.62	1,073.87		70 Bl-W	1,003.68	1,038.81	1.073.94	1,111.46		70 Bl-W	1,038.81	1,075.17	1,111.53	1,15036		70 Bl-W	1,077.77	1,115.49	1,153.21	1,193.50	
	80 Bl-W	969.74	1.003.68	1,037.62	1,07387		80 Bl-W	1,003.68	1,038.81	1,073.94	1,111.46		80 Bl-W	1,038.81	1,075.17	1,111.53	1,150.36		80 Bl-W	1,077.77	1,115.49	1,15321	1,19350	
7	ANNUAL*	27,138	28,088	29.038	30.050	7	ANNUAL*	28,088	29,071	30,054	31,112	7	ANNUAL*	29,071	30,089	31,106	32,201	7	ANNUAL*	30,161	31,217	32,273	33,408	
	70 Bl-W	1,043.76	1,080.29	1,116.82	1,156.13		70 Bl-W	1,080.29	1,118.10	1,155.91	1,196.59		70 Bl-W	1,118.10	1,157.23	1,196.37	1,238.47		70 Bl-W	1,160.03	1.200.63	1,241.23	1,284.91	1 r-
	80 Bl-W	1,043.76	1,080.29	1,116.82	1,156.13		80 Bl-W	1.080.29	1,118.10	1.155.91	1,196.59		80 Bl-W	1,118.10	1,157.23	1,196.37	1.238.47		80 Bl-W	1,160.03	1,200.63	1,241.23	1,284.91	
8	ANNUAL*	29,570	30,605	31,640	32,761	8	ANNUAL*	30.605	31,676	32747	33,908	8	ANNUAL*	31,676	32,784	33,893	35.095	5	ANNUAL*	32,864	34.014	35.164	36,411	"i
	70 Bl-W	1,137.37	1,177.18	1,216.99	1,260.16		70 Bl-W	1,177.18	1,218.38	1.259.58	1,304.27		70 Bl-W	1,218.38	1,261.02	1,303.67	1,349.92		70 Bl-W	1,264.07	1,308.31	1.352.56	1,400.54	
	80 Bl-W	1,137.37	1,177.18	1,216.99	1.260.16		80 Bl-W	1,177.18	1,218.38	1,259.58	1,304.27		30 Bl-W	1,218.38	1,261.02	1,303.67	1,349.92		80 Bl-W	1,264.07	;,3oe.3t	1,352.56	1,400.54	
9	ANNUAL*	32,176	33,302	34,428	35,657	9	ANNUAL*	33,302	34,468	35.633	36,905	9	ANNUAL*	34,466	35,674	36,880	38,197	9	ANNUAL*	35,760	37,012	38,253	39,629	
	70 Bl-W	1,237.55	1,280.86	1,324.18	1,371.46		70 Bl-W	1,280.66	1,325.69	1,370.53	1,41946		70 Bl-W	1,325.69	1,372.09	1,418.50	1.469.14		70 Bl-W	1.375 40	1,423.54	1,471.69	1,524.23	
	80 Bl-W	1.237.55	1.280.86	1,324.18	1,371.46		80 Bl-W	1,280.86	1,325.69	1,370.53	1,419.46		80 Bl-W	1,325.69	1,372.09	1,418.50	1.469.14		80 Bl-W	1.375.40	1,423.54	1,471.69	1,524.23	
10	ANNUAL*	34,623	35,835	37,047	38.377	10	ANNUAL*	35,835	37,089	38,344	39,720	10	ANNUAL*	37,089	38,388	39,686	41,110	10	ANNUAL-	38.480	39,827	41,174	42,652	
	70 Bl-W	1,331.68	1,378.29	1,424.90	1,476.05		70 Bl-W	1.378.29	1,426.53	1,474.77	1,527.71		70 Bl-W	1,426.53	1,476.46	1,526.39	1,581.18		70 Bl-W	1,480.02	1,531.83	1,583.63	1,640.47	
	80 Bl-W	1.331.68	1,378.29	1,424.90	1,476.05		80 Bl-W	1,378.29	1,426.53	1.474.77	1,527.71		80 Bl-W	1,426.53	1,476.46	1,526.39	1,581.18		80 Bl-W	1.480.02	1,531.83	1,583.63	1,640.47	
11	ANNUAL*	37,056	38,353	39,650	41,079	11	ANNUAL*	38,353	39,695	41,037	42,517	11	ANNUAL*	39,695	41,084	42.474	44.005	11	ANNUAL*	41,184	42,625	44.005	45,655	
	70 Bl-W	1.425.30	1,475.19	1,525.07	1,580.05		70 Bl-W	1,475.19	1,526.82	1,578.45	1,635.35		70 Bl-W	1,526.82	1,580.26	1,633.70	1,692.59		70 Bl-W	1,584.08	1,639.52	1.694.96	1,756.06	
	80 Bl-W	1.425.30	1,475.19	1,525.07	1,580.05		80 Bl-W	1,475.19	1,526.82	1,578.45	1.635.35		80 Bl-W	1,526.62	1,580.26	1,633.70	1,692.59		80 Bl-W	1,584.08	1,639.52	1,694.58	1,756.06	
12	ANNUAL*	39,501	40,884	42,267	43,797	12	ANNUAL*	40,884	42.315	43,746	45,330	12	ANNUAL*	42,315	43,796	45,277	46,916	12	ANNUAL*	43.902	45,438	46,975	48,676	
	70 Bl-W	1,519.35	1,572.53	1.625.70	1.684 58		70 Bl-W	1,572.53	1,627.57	1,682.60	1,743.54		70 Bl-W	1,627.57	1,684.53	1,741.49	1,804.56		70 Bl-W	1,688.60	1.747.70	1,806.80	1,872.23	
	80 Bl-W	1,519.35	1,572.53	1.625.70	1.684.58		80 Bl-W	1,572.53	1,627.57	1,682.60	1,743.54		80 Bl-W	1,627.57	1,684.53	1,741.49	1,804.56		80 Bl-W	1,688.60	1.747.70	1,806.80	1,872.23	
1	13	ANNUAL*	43.821	45.355	46.889	48,597	13	ANNUAL*	45,355	46.943	48,530	50,298	13	ANNUAL*	46,943	48,585	50,229	52,058.	13	ANNUAL*	48,703	50.407	52,112	54,011	
	70 Bl-W	1.685.48	1,744.47	1,803.46	1.869.16		70 Bl-W	1,744.47	1,805.53	1,866.58	1,934.58		70 Bl-W	1,805.53	1,868.72	1,931.91	2,002.29		70 Bl-W	1,873.24	1.938.80	2,004.36	2.077.38	
	80 Bl-W	1.685.48	1,744.47	1.803.46	1,869.16		80 Bl-W	1,744.47	1,805.53	1,866.58	1,934.58		80 Bl-W	1,805.53	1,868.72	1,931.91	2,002.29		80 Bl-W	1,873.24	1.938.80	2,004.36	2,077.38	
■ 14	ANNUAL*	48.532	50,231	51,929	53.831	14	ANNUAL*	50,231	51,989	53,747	55,715	14	ANNUAL*	51,989	53,808	55,628	57,665	14	ANNUAL*	53,938	55,826	57,714	59,828	
	70 Bl-W	1,866.62	1.931.95	1,997.28	2,070.42		70 Bl-W	1,931.95	1,999.57	2,067.18	2.142.88		70 Bl-W	1,999.57	2,069.55	2,139.53	2,217.88		70 Bl-W	2,074.55	2,147.16	2,219.76	2,301.05	
	80 Bl-W	1.866.62	1,931.95	1,997.28	2.070.42		80 Bl-W	1,931.95	1,999.57	2,067.18	2,142.88		80 Bl-W	1,999.57	2,069.55	2,139.53	2,217.88		80 Bl-W	2,074.55	2.147.16	2,219176	2,301.05	
IR 15	ANNUAL*	53.433	55,303	57,173	59,276	1S	ANNUAL*	55.303	57,239	59.174	61,351	15	ANNUAL*	57.239	59,242	61,246	63,498	15	ANNUAL*	59,385	61.464	63,542	65.879	
	70 Bl-W	2,055.17	2.127.10	2,199.03	2,279.89		70 Bl-W	2,127.10	2,201.55	2,276.00	2,359.69		70 Bl-W	2,201.55	2,278.60	2,355.66	2.442.28		70 Bl-W	2,284.11	2,364.05	2,444.00	2,533.87	
	80 Bl-W	2,055.17	2,127.10	2,199.03	2,279.89		80 Bl-W	2,127.10	2,201.55	2.276.00	2,359.69		80 Bl-W	2,201.55	2,278.60	2,355.66	2,442.28		80 Bl-W	2,284.11	2,364.05	2,444.00	2,533.87	
I	2001 CSEA HRLY SALARY SCHEDULE I	GRADE	A	2	3 I	1	ANNUAL*	IRRHft 1QAGC rtrt «rte-					Z	2002 CSEA HRLY SALARY SCHEDULE SHADE	A	2	3					Z		2003 CSEA HRLY SALARY SCHEDULE						2004 CSEA HRLY SALARY SCHEDULE					
OCC ANNUAL SALARY SCHEDULES
OCC ANNUAL SALARY SCHEDULE	OCC ANNUAL SALARY SCHEDULE	OCC ANNUAL SALARY SCHEDULE	OCC ANNUAL SALARY SCHEDULE
		2001						2002				2003						2004					
GRADE		A	2	3	Z	GRADE		A	2	3	Z	GRADE		A	2	3	Z	GRADE		A	2	3	Z
1	ANNUAL*	18.880	19,541	20,202	20,883	1	ANNUAL*	19,541	20,225	20,909	21,614	1	ANNUAL*	20,225	20,933	21,641	22,371	1	ANNUAL*	20,983	21,718	22,452	23,210
2	ANNUAL*	19,704	20,394	21,084	21,799	2	ANNUAL*	20,394	21,108	21,821	22,562	2	ANNUAL*	21,108	21,846	22,585	23,352	2	ANNUAL*	21,899	22,666	23,432	24,228
3	ANNUAL*	20,535	21,254	21,973	22,723	3	ANNUAL*	21,254	21,998	22,742	23,519	3	ANNUAL*	21,998	22,768	23,538	24,342	3	ANNUAL*	22,823	23,622	24,421	25,255
4	ANNUAL*	21,637	22,394	23,152	23,948	4	ANNUAL*	22,394	23,178	23,962	24,786	4	ANNUAL*	23,178	23,989	24,801	25,653	4	ANNUAL*	24,047	24,889	25,731	26,615
5	ANNUAL*	23,269	24,084	24,898	25,762	5	ANNUAL*	24,084	24,927	25,770	26,664	5	ANNUAL*	24,927	25,799	26,672	27,597	5	ANNUAL*	25,862	26,767	27,672	28,632
6	ANNUAL*	25,310	26,196	27,081	28,028	6	ANNUAL*	26,196	27,112	28,029	29,009	6	ANNUAL*	27,112	28,061	29,010	30,025	6	ANNUAL*	28,129	29,114	30,098	31,150
7	ANNUAL*	27,241	28,195	29,148	30,174	7	ANNUAL*	28,195	29,182	30,169	31,230	7	ANNUAL*	29,182	30,203	31,224	32,323	7	ANNUAL*	30,276	31,336	32,395	33,535
8	ANNUAL*	29,685	30,724	31,763	32,891	8	ANNUAL*	30,724	31,800	32,875	34,043	8	ANNUAL*	31,800	32,913	34,026	35,234	8	ANNUAL*	32,992	34,147	35,302	36,555
9	ANNUAL*	32,301	33,431	34,562	35,796	9	ANNUAL*	33,431	34,601	35,771	37,049	9	ANNUAL*	34,601	35,812	37,023	38,345	9	ANNUAL*	35,899	37,155	38,412	39,783
10	ANNUAL*	34,756	35,972	37,189	38,524	10	ANNUAL*	35,972	37,232	38,491	39,872	10	ANNUAL*	37,232	38,535	39,838	41,267	10	ANNUAL*	38,628	39,980	41,332	42,815
11	ANNUAL*	37,200	38,502	39,804	41,239	11	ANNUAL*	38,502	39,850	41,197	42,682	11	ANNUAL*	39,850	41,244	42,639	44,176	11	ANNUAL*	41,344	42,791	44,238	45,833
12	ANNUAL*	39,654	41,042	42,430	43,966	12	ANNUAL*	41,042	42,479	43,915	45,505	12	ANNUAL*	42,479	43,965	45,452	47,097	12	ANNUAL*	44,072	45,614	47,157	48,864
13	ANNUAL*	43,991	45,530	47,070	48,784	13	ANNUAL*	45,530	47,124	48,717	50,491	13	ANNUAL*	47,124	48,773	50,423	52,258	13	ANNUAL*	48,891	50,602	52,313	54,218
14	ANNUAL*	48,717	50,423	52,128	54,037	14	ANNUAL*	50,423	52,187	53,952	55,928	14	ANNUAL*	52,187	54,014	55,840	57,886	14	ANNUAL*	54,144	56,039	57,935	60,056
19	ANNUAL*	53,639	55,517	57,394	59,506	15	ANNUAL*	55,517	57,460	59,403	61,589	15	ANNUAL*	57,460	59,471	61,482	63,744	15	ANNUAL*	59,615	61,701	63,788	66,135
-42

APPENDIX B COUNTY Of ONONDAGA CSEA JOB TITLES
70-Hour Titles
OCC ANNUAL SALARY SCHEDULES
Account Clerk I
Account Clerk II
Account Clerk III
Account Clerk-Typist I Account Clerk-Typist II Account Clerk-Typist III Accountant I Accountant II
Accountant III
Accounting Supervisor, Grade B Administrative Aide
Admin. Analyst Aide (Soc. Svcs.) Admin. Analyst (Soc. Svcs.) Administrative Analyst I Administrative Analyst II Administrative Assistant
Aging Services Aide Architect I
Architect II
Asst. Director of Emergency Med. Svcs. Assistant Home Economist
Assistant Registrar of Vital Statistics Assistant Welfare Attorney
Attendant (Driver) Audio-Visual Aide Audio-Visual Repair Worker Audio-Visual Specialist
Auditor (Payroll) Auditor I
Auditor II
Auditor III Bookbinder
Building Mtce. & Oper. Assistant
Building Maintenance Supervisor (HVAC) Buyer I
Buyer II
Campus Security Officer
Case Supervisor "A" Case Supervisor "B" Case Worker
Caseworker (Spanish Speaking) Cashier
Central Stores and Mail Manager Child Care Supervisor Child Care Worker I
Child Care Worker II
Child Support Enforcement Supervisor Civil Engineer I Civil Engineer II Civil Engineer III Civil Engineer/Land Surveyor Clerk I
Clerk II
Clerk II (B/WSaly)
Clerk III
Client Employment Services Manager Clinical Psychologist Communicable Disease Investigator Community Health Counselor Community Health Nutritionist Community Services Aide Community Services Worker Community Support Worker Computer Equip. Maintenance Specialist Computer Oper. Shift Supervisor Computer Repair Technician Computer Technical Specialist Console Operator Contract Clerk Control Clerk
Coordinator of Elig. Investigations Coordinator, Water Quality Mgmt Agency Custodial Crew Leader (70) Custodial Worker I (70) Custodial Worker II (70) Data Entry Equipment Operator Data Entry Supervisor Data Processing Training Coordinator Delinquent Tax Clerk Detention Home Social Work Assistant
-43-
70-Hour Titles (cont’d.)
Drafting Technician II Driver Messenger (70) Duplicating Machine Operator I Duplicating Machine Operator II Education Program Supervisor (Hillbrook) Education Specialist (Hndicppd Chldrn) Elderly Services Coordinator Elections Assistant 2 Elections Clerk I Elections Clerk II
Elections Clerk III
Elections Supervisor
Employee Benefits Claim Clerk Employment and Training Counselor I Employment and Training Intake Worker I Employment and Tmg. Prog. Ping. Spec. Employment Services Specialist I Engineering Aide II Engineering Technician I Environment Health Aide Environment Health Technician I Environment Health Technician II Film Services Supervisor Financial Aide Examiner Fingerprint Technician Forensic Chemist I
Geographic Information Systems Specialist Graphic/Mapping Technician I
Graphics Technician Grounds Crew Leader Grounds Supervisor Home Economist
Housing Coordinator
Housing Program Coordinator
Housing Rehabilitation Inspector Housing Rehabilitation Specialist Housing Rehabilitation Supervisor Human Rights Specialist Income Maintenance Specialist Income Maintenance Supervisor I Income Maintenance Supervisor II Income Maintenance Worker Information Aide Information Systems Coordinator InstrumentationZElectrical Engineer Inventory Control Supervisor
Laboratory Helper
Laboratory Technician I
Laboratory Technician II
Laboratory Worker
Laborer I (70)
Laborer II (70)
Landscape Architect I
Landscape Architect II
Legal Secretary I
Legal Secretary II
Librarian Assistant
Librarian I
Librarian II
Librarian III
Library Clerk I
Library Clerk II
Library Clerk III
Local Area Network Technical Support Specialist
Mailroom Clerk
Mailroom Supervisor
Maintenance Helper (70)
Mgt. Info. Syst. Trainer (DSS)
Mass Spectrometrist
Materials Management Coordinator
Mechanical Engineer
Media Development Specialist
Medical Records Administrator
Medical Records Technician
Medical Technologist I
Medical Transcriptionist
Messenger
Micrographics Systems Analyst
Museum and Historical Site Manager
Network Coordinator
Nutritionist
Occupational Therapist I
Occupational Therapist II
Occupational Therapy Aide
Occupational Therapy Assistant
Office Automation Analyst
Office Automation Support Technician
Operations Librarian
Outreach Worker (Health)
Paralegal
Peripheral Equipment Operator
Personnel Aide
-44-
70-Hour Titles (contd.)
Personnel Services Aide
Phlebotomist
Photocopy Machine Operator
Physical Therapist Assistant
Physical Therapist I
Physical Therapist II
Physical Therapy Aide
Planner I
Planner II
Planner III
Plumbing Control Supervisor
Plumbing Inspector I
Plumbing Inspector II
Probation Assistant
Probation Officer
Probation Officer (Spanish Speaking)
Probation Officer (Minority Group Specialist)
Probation Supervisor
Probation Trainee
Probation Trainee (Minority Group Specialist)
Probation Trainee (Spanish Speaking)
Program Assistant (Fire Coordinator)
Program Coordinator (Educ/HC)
Program Coordinator (Health)
Program Coordinator (Home Based Service)
Prgrm Coord. (Runaway & Homeless Youth)
Program Coordinator (W.I.C.)
Program Evaluation Assistant
Prgrm Liaison (Client Employment Srvs) Program Manager - A.D.A.S.
Program Manager - Mental Health Svcs.
Program Monitor
Programmer Analyst
Programmer I
Programmer II
Programmer Trainee
Project Director (Community Services)
Project Director (E.I.S.E.P.)
Project Director (MCOA Senior Empl. Prgrm)
Project Director (MCOA Senior Nutr. Program)
Psychiatric Social Work Assistant
Psychiatric Social Worker I
Psychiatric Social Worker II
Public Health Assistant
Public Health Dental Hygienist I
Public Health Education Supervisor
Public Health Educator
Public Health Engineer I
Public Health Engineer II
Public Health Engineer III
Public Health Social Work Assistant
Public Hlth S W Asst.(Spanish Speaking)
Public Health Social Worker I
Public Health Social Work Supervisor
Public Information Specialist
Publications Aide
Purchasing Clerk
Quality Assurance Coordinator
Record Clearance Supervisor
Recording Clerk
Recording Supervisor
Records Preservation Assistant
Records Preservation Supervisor
Rehabilitation Counselor
Reproduction Services Supervisor Research Aide
Research Technician I
Research Technician II
Resource Analyst
Right of Way Agent
Safety Officer
Safety Training Instructor
Sanitarian I
Sanitarian II
Sanitarian III
Sanitary Biochemist
Sanitary Chemist I
Sanitary Chemist II
Sanitary Engineer I
Sanitary Engineer II
Sanitary Laboratory Supervisor
Sanitary Technician
Senior Caseworker
Senior Media Development Specialist
Senior Motor Equipment Dispatcher Senior Nutritionist
Senior Psychiatric Social Work Assistant
Senior Resource Analyst
Senior Sanitary Technician
Senior Support Enforcement Officer
Senior Systems Programmer Social Services Examiner I
-45-
70-Hour Titles (contd.)
Social Services Investigator I Social Services Investigator II Social Services Program Planner Specialist, Service for the Aging Specification Writer Stenographer I Stenographer II Stenographer III Stock Attendant Stock Clerk Storekeeper Student Assistance Counselor Student Assistance Program Supervisor Summer Employment Aide II Supervising Social Services Investigator Support Enforcement Officer Switchboard Operator Systems Accountant Systems Accounting Manager Systems Analyst Systems Programmer Tax Abstract Clerk Tax Clerk
Tax Map Supervisor Tax Map Technician I Tax Map Technician II Teacher (Language Art/Social Studies)
Teacher (Math/Science)
Technical Assistant
Technical Specialist
Telecommunications Network Technician
Telephone Technician
Training Supervisor
Typist I
Typist II
Vault Attendant
Veterans Counselor
Veterans Education Aide
Veterans Service Officer
Victim Assistant Coordinator
Ward Clerk
Water Systems Construction Engineer
Web Site Administrator
Weights and Measures Inspector
Welfare Fraud Investigator
WIC Assistant
WIC Assistant (Spanish Speaking)
Word Processing Machine Operator
Workers Compensation Clerk
Youth Counselor I
Youth Employment Program Supervisor
Youth Service Coordinator
-46-
80-Hour Titles
Assistant Food Service Manager Assistant Swimming Facility Manager Automotive Mechanic Automotive Mechanic Crew Leader Automotive Mechanic Helper Bridge Construction Supervisor Bridge Maintenance Crew Leader Building Maintenance Supervisor Casework Supervisor Chief Helicopter Pilot
Closed Circuit Television Attendant Closed Circuit Television Operator Codes Enforcement Officer Community Services Officer Cook I
Cook II
Correction Counselor I Correction Counselor II Correction Lieutenant Correction Officer Correction Officer Trainee Correction Sergeant
Curator of Historical Interpretation Custodial Crew Leader
Custodial Supervisor Custodial Worker I Custodial Worker II Detention Home Aide Detention Home Counselor I Detention Home Counselor II Diet Technician Dietician
Driver-Messenger
Education Program Supervisor Electrical Maintenance Coordinator Electrical Maintenance Worker Electronic Equipment Technician Fire Investigator Food Service Helper I Food Service Helper II Food Service Supervisor Forensic Investigator Garage Supervisor Groundskeeper
Guard
Hatchery Aide I
Head Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Health Services Worker
Heavy Equipment Mechanic Crew Leader Heavy Equipment Mechanic I
Heavy Equipment Mechanic II
Helicopter Repair Worker
Highway Construction Crew Leader Highway Section Crew Leader Instrumentation Crew Leader
Instrumentation Maintenance Coordinator
Instrumentation Mechanic
Instrumentation Mechanic (D&S) Labor Crew Leader
Laborer I
Laborer II
Leisure Time Activities Director
Leisure Time Activities Leader
Lifeguard
Maintenance Carpenter
Maintenance Carpenter Crew Leader
Maintenance Carpenter's Helper Maintenance Electrician
Maintenance Electrician Crew Leader
Maintenance Helper
Maintenance Mechanic
Maintenance Painter Crew Leader
Maintenance Painter I Maintenance Painter II Maintenance Worker I Maintenance Worker II Mason
Mechanical Maintenance Coordinator
Morgue Attendant
Morgue Technician
Motor Equipment Dispatcher
Motor Equipment Operator I Motor Equipment Operator II Motor Equipment Operator III Nature Center Attendant
Nurse Aide I Nurse Aide II Park Laborer
-47-
80-Hour Titles
Park Laborer Crew Leader
Park Maintenance Crew Leader
Park Naturalist I
Park Naturalist II
Park Ranger I
Park Ranger II
Parks Interpreter I
Parks Interpreter II
Plumbing Maintenance Worker
Principal Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Public Safety Dispatcher
Public Safety Shift Supervisor
Public Safety Telecommunicator
Pump Maintenance Worker
Pump Station Maintenance Supervisor Pump Station Maintenance Worker I Pump Station Maintenance Worker II Recreation Leader
Recreation Supervisor Senior Correction Officer Senior Dietitian
Senior Recreation Leader
Senior Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Senior Zoo Attendant
Sewer Maintenance Crew Leader Sewer Maintenance Supervisor Sewer Maintenance Worker I Sewer Maintenance Worker II Special Events Coordinator Stream Maintenance Crew Leader Stream Maintenance Supervisor Stream Maintenance Worker I
Stream Maintenance Worker II Swimming Facility Manager Tire Service Mechanic Traffic Signal Repair Supervisor Traffic Signal Repair Worker I Traffic Signal Repair Worker II Underground Facilities Locator Veterinary Technician Visitor Center Attendant Volunteer Services Supervisor Wastewater Technician I Wastewater Technician II Wastewater Plant Const. Insp. I Wastewater Trtmnt. Plant Const. Insp. II Wastewater Trtmnt. Plant Mtc. Crew Ldr. Wastewater Trtmnt. Plant Mtc. Hlpr (I/E) Wastewater Trtmnt Plant Mtc Hlpr (Meeh) Wastewater Trtmnt Plant Mtc. Meeh. Wastewater Trtmnt Pint Mtc. Wrkr (I/E) Wastewater Trtmnt Plant Mtc. Wrkr (Meeh) Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator Wastewater Treatment Plant Trainee Water Plant Electrician
Water Plant Laboratory Technician Water Plant Operator I (A) Water Plant Operator I (B) Water Plant Trainee Water Systems Chemist I Water Systems Chemist II Welder
Zoo Attendant
LIST REV. 07/16/01
* Effective January 1, 1992 the hourly rate of pay for hours worked for the title of Ward Clerk shall be
based upon the rate of pay for a 70 hour title. Employees holding the title of Ward Clerk on or before December 31,1991 shall continue to work their current 80 hour work period unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the employee. Employees appointed to the title of Ward Clerk on or after January 1,1992 shall have a work period of either 70 or 80 hours determined at the discretion of the Employer at the time of hire.
-48-
APPENDIX C
Settlement Agreement of August 5,1985 ("Calendar Creep" Agreement) Incorporation Herein By Reference With the Same Force and Effect As Though Set Forth In Full In this Contract
-49-
APPENDIX D ORAL WARNING NOTATION
Date
EMPLOYEE’S NAME: _______________________________________________________________
Last	First	Middle
DEPARTMENT: JOB TITLE: 
WORK LOCATION: __________________________________________________________________
IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR:  JOB TITLE: 
DATE OF FIRST ORAL WARNING: ___________________________________________________
DESCRIBE INFRACTION FOR WHICH ORAL WARNING WAS GIVEN: 
WORK RULE(S) EXPLAINED: (No.)_________________________________
I have read this WARNING.
Employee Signature: __________________________________________
Supervisor Signature:_________________________________________
Employee Comments:______;_______________________________________________________
The employee named herein has refused to sign this notice. I do, therefore, attest that said discussion did take place on___________________________________________________________________
(Date)
Witness Signature	Supervisor Signature
-50-

APPENDIX E LEAVE ACCRUAL CHART
EMPLOYEE SCHEDULE
VACATION LEAVE
SICK LEAVE PERSONAL
LEAVE
(Per 2 week Period)	less than 5 yrs. 11 days	5 but less than 10 yrs 16 days	10 but less than 15 yrs 17 days	more than 15 yrs 21 days	completion of 16 yrs. 22 days	10 DAYS MAX.	3 days
	Per PP Annual	Per PP Annual	Per PP Annual	Per PP Annual	Per PP Annual	Per PP Annual	Per PP Annual
70 HOURS							
1/2 time (35 hours)	1.49	38.74	2.16	56.16	2.29	59.54	2.83	73.58	2.97	77.22	135	35.10	.41	10.66
3/5 time (42 hours)	1.78	46.28	2.59	67.34	2.75	71.50	3.40	88.40	3.56	92.56	1.62	42.12	.49	12.74
7/10 time (49 hours)	2.08	54.08	3.02	78.52	3.21	83.46	3.96	102.96	4.15	107.90	1.89	49.14	.57	14.82
4/5 time (56 hours)	2.37	61.62	3.45	89.70	3.67	95.42	4.53	117.78	4.74	123.24	2.16	56.16	65	16.90
9/10 time (63 hours)	2.67	69.42	3.88	100.88	4.12	107.12	5.09	132.34	5.34	138.84	2 43	63.18	.73	18.98
Full Time (70 hours)	2.97	77.00	4.31	112.00	4.58	119.00	5.66	147.00	5.93	154.00	2.70	70.00	.81	21.00
							
80 HOURS							
1/2 time (40 hours)	1.70	44.20	2.47	64.22	2.62	68.12	3.24	84.24	3.39	88.14	1.54	40.04	.47	12.22
3/5 time (48 hours)	2.04	53.04	2.96	76.96	3.14	81.64	3.88	100.88	4.07	105.82	1.85	48.10	.56	14.56
7/10 time (56 hours)	2.37	61.62	3.45	89.70	3.67	95.42	4.53	117.78	4.74	123.24	2.16	56.16	.65	16.90
4/5 time (64 hours)	2.71	70.46	3.94	102.44	4.19	108.94	5.18	134.68	5.42	140.92	2.47	64.22	.74	19.24
9/10 time (72 hours)	3.05	79.30	4.44	115.44	4.71	122.46	5.82	151.32	6.10	158.60	2.77	72.00	.84	21.84
Full Time (80 hours)	3.39	88.00	4.93	128.00	5.24	136.00	6.47	168.00	6.77	176.00	3.08	80.00	.93	24.00
l
Note: Minimum leave time increment shall be 15 minutes (.25)
.25 = 15 minutes	.50 = 30 minutes	.75 = 45 minutes
CSEA-ACC/negctia/JSC
APPENDIX F MONTHLY PARKING REIMBURSEMENT RATE FORMULA
CENTRO "NORTH"	monthly parking rate less tax x	number of spaces =
II
product
COPPER KETTLE	"	x	"	=
n
LOT# 17	"	x	"	=
II
MONY GARAGE	"	x	"	=
II
NORTH GARAGE	"	x	"	=
II
PSB A/B	"	x	"	=
II
TOTAL (B)
TOTAL (A)
A -------------------	= MONTHLY PARKING REIMBURSEMENT RATE B
-52-
COUNTY OF ONCT0MA
NICHOLAS J.
CSUHTVCMBCUnvC
DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL OMStCN OF EMPLOYEE RELATIONS JOHN M.MUUK3Y CMC CENTER 4a MONTGOMERY STREET - 3WFLOOR SWUCUSK, NEW YORK 0202 315-435-3455
PETER TROIAIMC Omcctm
March 17, 1994
Norman Lefebvre, President
CSEA Local 834
5815 Heritage Landing Drive
East Syracuse, NY 13057
RE: Salary Plan
Dear Norm:
This will confirm our agreement to print the portion of the Onondaga Jounty Salary Plan pertaining to this bargaining unit in the booklet containing the collective bargaining agreement. This is intended by the Employer and Union to provide employees and other users of the contract booklet with a convenient place to locate and access this inforTnatjan.
In doing so, it is expressly agreed that the Onondaga County Salary Plan is not Incorporated in any way as an article, appendix or any other part of the collective bargaining agreement nor is it a supplemental agreement or amendment to the collective bargaining agreement. Further, it "is expressly agreed that any and all rights of the Employer to allocate or reallocate the salary grade of any title or position shall not be affected or waived by providing this convenience.
Sincerely,
Peter Troiano
Director of Employee Relations
Agreed and Confirmed:
President, CSEA Local 834

PT/db
-53-
ONONDAGA COUNTY TITLE REPORT
UNION 11 CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (HOURLY)					
JOB TITLE	TITLE NO.	GRADE	OT ELIG	WK PRD	JC
ACCOUNT CLERK I	02000	04	NE	70	c
ACCOUNT CLERK II	02020	07	NE	70	c
ACCOUNT CLERK III	02050	08	NE	70	c
ACCOUNT CLERK-TYPIST I	02010	04	NE	70	c
ACCOUNT CLERK-TYPIST II	02030	07	NE	70	c
ACCOUNT CLERK-TYPIST III	02040	08	NE	70	c
ADMINISTRATIVE AIDE	07140	07	NE	70	c
ADMINISTRATIVE ANALYSIS AIDE (SOCIAL SVCS)	30130	08	NE	70	c
ADMINISTRATIVE ANALYST I	07130	09	NE	70	c
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT	07110	09	NE	70	c
AGING SERVICES AIDE	30730	35	NE	70	L
ASSISTANT FOOD SERVICE MANAGER	71210	08	NE	80	C
ASSISTANT HOME ECONOMIST	39020	07	NE	70	C
ASSISTANT REGISTRAR OF VITAL STATISTICS	00500	09	NE	70	C
ASSISTANT SWIMMING FACILITY MANAGER	38710	03	NE	80	c
ATTENDANT (DRIVER)	40070	06	NE	70	NC
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDE	65380	02	NE	70	NC
AUDIO-VISUAL REPAIR WORKER	65400	08	NE	70	C
AUDIO-VISUAL SPECIALIST	07010	08	NE	70	C
AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC	61030	07	NE	80	NC
AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC CREW LEADER	61040	09	NE	80	C
AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC HELPER	61020	04	NE	80	L
BOOKBINDER	60300	07	NE	70	NC
BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISOR	63040	10	NE	80	C
BRIDGE MAINTENANCE CREW LEADER	63020	09	NE	80	C
BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONS ASST	10540	10	NE	70	C
BUYER I	05290	09	NE	70	C
BUYER II	05300	11	NE	70	C
CAMPUS SECURITY OFFICER	40940	09	NE	70	C
CASEWORKER	30010	09	NE	70	C
CASEWORKER (SPANISH SPEAKING)	30510	09	NE	70	c
CASHIER	02100	06	NE	70	c
CENTRAL STORES AND MAIL MANAGER	09160	08	NE	70	c
CHILD CARE SUPERVISOR	25370	09	NE	70	c
CHILD CARE WORKER I	25350	05	NE	70	c
CHILD CARE WORKER II	25360	07	NE	70	c
CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT SUPERVISOR	30640	11	NE	70	c
CIVIL ENGINEER I	10200	11	NE	70	c
CIVIL ENGINEER II	10210	13	NE	70	c
CIVIL ENGINEER/LAND SURVEYOR	10250	15	NE	70	c
CLERK I			00100	02	NE	70	c
CLERK II	00110	05	NE	70	c
-54-
CLERK III	00120	07	NE	70	C
CLIENT EMPLOYMENT SERVICES MANAGER	04870	12	NE	70	C
CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION ATTENDANT	09670	07	NE	80	NC
CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION OPERATOR	09680	09	NE	80	C
CODES ENFORCEMENT OFFICER	42290	11	NE	80	C
COMMUNICABLE DISEASE INVESTIGATOR	23050	09	NE	70	C
COMMUNITY HEALTH COUNSELOR	30341	09	NE	70	C
COMMUNITY HEALTH NUTRITIONIST	71030	12	NE	70	C
COMMUNITY SERVICES AIDE	00040	01	NE	70	L
COMMUNITY SERVICES OFFICER	40400	03	NE	80	C
COMMUNITY SERVICES WORKER	30000	07	NE	70	C
COMMUNITY SUPPORT WORKER	30490	07	NE	70	c
COMPUTER EQUIP MAINTENANCE SPECIALIST	03330	07	NE	70	c
COMPUTER OPERATIONS SHIFT SUPERVISOR	03400	12	NE	70	c
COMPUTER REPAIR TECHNICIAN	03410	09	NE	70	c
CONSOLE OPERATOR	03660	10	NE	70	c
CONTRACT CLERK	05240	08	NE	70	c
CONTROL CLERK	03690	08	NE	70	c
COOKI	71050	06	NE	80	NC
COOK II	71060	07	NE	80	NC
CORRECTION COUNSELOR 1	30380	09	NE	80	C
CORRECTION COUNSELOR 2	30390	11	NE	80	C
CORRECTION LIEUTENANT	44070	12	NE	80	C
CORRECTION OFFICER	44050	08	NE	80	C
CORRECTION OFFICER TRAINEE*	44040	07	NE	80	C
CORRECTION SERGEANT	44060	11	NE	80	C
CURATOR OF HISTORICAL INTERPRETATION	38860	09	NE	80	C
CUSTODIAL CREW LEADER	70050	07	NE	80	c
CUSTODIAL CREW LEADER (70)	80320	07	NE	70	c
CUSTODIAL SUPERVISOR	70110	10	NE	80	c
CUSTODIAL WORKER I	70020	02	NE	80	L
CUSTODIAL WORKER I (70)	80300	02	NE	70	L
CUSTODIAL WORKER II	70030	03	NE	80	L
DATA ENTRY EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	03100	04	NE	70	c
DATA ENTRY SUPERVISOR	03110	08	NE	70	c
DELINQUENT TAX CLERK	02170	10	NE	70	c
DETENTION HOME AIDE	31090	05	NE	80	NC
DETENTION HOME COUNSELOR I	31100	09	NE	80	C
DETENTION HOME COUNSELOR II	31110	11	NE	80	C
DETENTION HOME SOCIAL WORK ASST	31080	09	NE	70	C
DIET TECHNICIAN	71120	07	NE	80	C
DIETITIAN	71110	10	NE	80	C
DRAFTING TECHNICIAN II	10060	08	NE	70	c
DRIVER MESSENGER (70)	80330	04	NE	70	NC
DRIVER-MESSENGER	62010	04	NE	80	NC
DUPLICATING MACHINE OPERATOR I	03190	04	NE	70	C
DUPLICATING MACHINE OPERATOR II	03200	07	NE	70	c
EDUCATION PROGRAM SUPERVISOR	44220	11	NE	80	c
-55-
ELDERLY SERVICES COORDINATOR	30750	09	NE	70	C
ELECTIONS ASSISTANT 2	00250	06	NE	70	UN
ELECTIONS CLERK 1	00210	03	NE	70	UN
ELECTIONS CLERK II	00220	05	NE	70	UN
ELECTIONS CLERK III	00230	07	NE	70	UN
ELECTIONS SUPERVISOR	00260	08	NE	70	UN
ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE COORDINATOR	61680	12	NE	80	C
ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE WORKER	61326	11	NE	80	C
ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN	61000	10	NE	80	C
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CLAIMS CLERK	05090	08	NE	70	C
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING COUNSELOR 1	30400	09	NE	70	C
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING INTAKE WORKER 1	04730	04	NE	70	C
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES SPECIALIST 1	04510	09	NE	70	C
ENGINEERING AIDE 11	10110	07	NE	70	C
ENGINEERING TECHNICIAN 1	10120	09	NE	70	C
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AIDE	42480	06	NE	70	C
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN 1	42510	08	NE	70	C
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN II	42520	09	NE	70	C
EXHIBITS ARTIST	06990	09	NE	80	NC
FILM SERVICES SUPERVISOR	07800	05	NE	70	C
FINANCIAL AIDE EXAMINER	09730	07	NE	70	C
FINGERPRINT TECHNICIAN	40610	03	NE	70	C
FIRE INVESTIGATOR	42180	10	NE	80	C
FOOD SERVICE HELPER 1	71010	02	NE	80	L
FOOD SERVICE HELPER II	71020	04	NE	80	L
FOOD SERVICE SUPERVISOR	71090	09	NE	80	NC
FORENSIC INVESTIGATOR	22412	10	NE	80	C
GARAGE SUPERVISOR	63090	10	NE	80	C
GRAPHIC/MAPPING TECHNICIAN 1	10030	08	NE	70	C
GRAPHICS TECHNICIAN	07000	09	NE	70	NC
GROUNDS CREW LEADER	63110	07	NE	70	C
GROUNDS SUPERVISOR	63180	11	NE	70	C
GROUNDSKEEPER	60180	06	NE	80	L
GUARD	60090	02	NE	80	L
HATCHERY AIDE 1	60500	06	NE	80	NC
HEAD WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OPERATOR	61547	13	NE	80	C
HEALTH SERVICES WORKER	21340	03	NE	80	L
HEAVY EQUIPMENT MECHANIC CREW LEADER	61110	10	NE	80	C
HEAVY EQUIPMENT MECHANIC 1	61070	08	NE	80	NC
HEAVY EQUIPMENT MECHANIC II	61080	09	NE	80	NC
HELICOPTER REPAIR WORKER	61900	13	NE	80	NC
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION CREW LEADER	63030	09	NE	80	C
HIGHWAY SECTION CREW LEADER	63050	11	NE	80	C
HOME ECONOMIST	39010	10	NE	70	C
HOUSING COORDINATOR	31310	09	NE	70	C
HOUSING REHABILITATION INSPECTOR	42190	09	NE	70	C
HOUSING REHABILITATION SPECIALIST	06690	09	NE	70	C
HUMAN RIGHTS SPECIALIST	30990	W	NE	70	C
-56-
INCOME MAINTENANCE SPECIALIST	30470	09	NE	70	C
INCOME MAINTENANCE WORKER	30460	07	_ NE	70	C
INFORMATION AIDE	60070	02	NE	70	L
INFORMATION SYSTEMS COORDINATOR	03640	12	NE	70	c
INSTRUMENTATION CREW LEADER	60540	11	NE	80	c
INSTRUMENTATION MAINTENANCE COORDINATOR	61940	12	NE	80	c
INSTRUMENTATION MECHANIC	61750	09	NE	80	NC
INSTRUMENTATION MECHANIC (DRAINAGE & SAN)	60530	09	NE	80	NC
INVENTORY CONTROL SUPERVISOR	00020	08	NE	70	C
LABOR CREW LEADER	63010	08	NE	80	NC
LABORATORY HELPER	22000	01	NE	70	L
LABORATORY TECHNICIAN 1	22040	07	NE	70	c
LABORATORY TECHNICIAN II	22050	08	NE	70	c
LABORATORY WORKER	22020	04	ne	70	c
LABORER 1	60100	01	NE	80	L
LABORER 1 (70)	80350	01	NE	70	L
LABORER II	60110	03	NE	80	L
LABORER II (70)	80340	03	NE	70	L
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT 1	10440	11	NE	70	c
LEGAL SECRETARY 1	01160	06	NE	70	c
LEGAL SECRETARY II	01170	08	NE	70	c
LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES DIRECTOR	22280	09	NE	80	c
LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES LEADER	22290	06	NE	80	c
LIBRARIAN ASSISTANT	“07660	08	NE	70	c
LIBRARY CLERK 1	07840	02	NE	70	c
LIBRARY CLERK II	07810	05	NE	70	c
LIBRARY CLERK III	07820	07	NE	70	c
LIFEGUARD	38100	01	NE	80	c
LOCAL AREA NTWK TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST	03745	10	NE	70	c
MAIL ROOM CLERK	09100	05	NE	70	c
MAILROOM SUPERVISOR	09010	07	NE	70	c
MAINTENANCE CARPENTER	61380	07	NE	80	NC
MAINTENANCE CARPENTER CREW LEADER	61390	09	NE	80	NC
MAINTENANCE CARPENTER'S HELPER	61410	04	NE	80	L
MAINTENANCE ELECTRICIAN	61330	09	NE	80	NC
MAINTENANCE ELECTRICIAN CREW LEADER	61420	11	NE	80	C
MAINTENANCE HELPER	60130	04	NE	80	L
MAINTENANCE HELPER (70)	80360	04	NE	70	L
MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	60170	09	NE	80	NC
MAINTENANCE PAINTER CREW LEADER	61370	09	NE	80	NC
MAINTENANCE PAINTER 1	61350	06	NE	80	NC
MAINTENANCE PAINTER II	61360	07	NE	80	NC
MAINTENANCE WORKER 1	60140	05	NE	80	NC
MAINTENANCE WORKER II	60150	09	NE	80	NC
MASON	61170	08	NE	80	NC
MATERIALS MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR	00030	10	NE	70	C
MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE COORDINATOR	61690	12	NE	80	C
MEDIA DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST	09030	09	NE	70	c
MEDICAL RECORDS ADMINISTRATOR	07620	10	NE	70	C
MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN	07610	09	NE	70	C
MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST	01250	08	NE	70	C
MESSENGER	60050	01	NE	70	L
MORGUE ATTENDANT	22410	05	NE	80	L
MORGUE TECHNICIAN	22490	07	NE	80	C
MOTOR EQUIPMENT DISPATCHER	60210	04	NE	80	NC
MOTOR EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 1	62100	05	NE	80	NC
MOTOR EQUIPMENT OPERATOR II	62120	06	NE	80	NC
MOTOR EQUIPMENT OPERATOR III	62140	07	NE	80	NC
MUSEUM AND HISTORICAL SITE MANAGER	38870	09	NE	70	C
NATURE CENTER ATTENDANT	38920	03	NE	80	L
NETWORK COORDINATOR	03750	10	NE	70	C
NURSE AIDE 1	20460	02	NE	80	L
NURSE AIDE II	20470	04	NE	80	NC
NUTRITION ASSISTANT	71040	07	NE	70	C
NUTRITION SERVICES COORDINATOR	71130	10	NE	70	C
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY AIDE	22370	04	NE	70	NC
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY ASSISTANT	22340	06	NE	70	C
OFFICE AUTOMATION ANALYST	04920	14	NE	70	C
OFFICE AUTOMATION SUPPORT TECHNICIAN	04900	08	NE	70	C
OPERATIONS LIBRARIAN	03530	08	NE	70	C
OUTREACH WORKER (HEALTH)	23020	04	NE	70	L
PARALEGAL	50560	10	NE	70	C
PARK LABORER	62990	03	NE	80	L
PARK LABORER CREW LEADER	63000	08	NE	80	NC
PARK MAINTENANCE CREW LEADER	63100	10	NE	80	NC
PARK NATURALIST 1	38910	09	NE	80	C
| PARK NATURALIST II	38900	10	NE	80	C
PARK RANGER 1	40850	07	NE	80	C
PARK RANGER II	40860	09	NE	80	C
PARKS INTERPRETER 1	38814	05	NE	80	C
PARKS INTERPRETER II	38815	07	NE	80	C
PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	03650	08	NE	70	C
PERSONNEL AIDE	04230	06	NE	70	C
PERSONNEL SERVICES AIDE	04260	07	NE	70	C
PHLEBOTOMIST	20070	04	NE	70	NC
PHOTOCOPY MACHINE OPERATOR	03230	04	NE	70	NC
PHYSICAL THERAPIST ASSISTANT	22390	06	NE	70	C
PHYSICAL THERAPY AIDE	22380	04	NE	70	L
PLUMBINGINSPECTORI	42100	09	NE	70	C
PLUMBING MAINTENANCE WORKER	61324	11	NE	80	NC
PRINCIPAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OPERATOR	61548	11	NE	80	C
PROBATION ASSISTANT	43150	07	NE	70	C
PROBATION OFFICER	43110	11	NE	70	C
PROBATION OFFICER (MINORITY GROUP SPECIALIST)	43050	11	NE	70	C
PROBATION OFFICER (SPANISH SPEAKING)	43113	11	NE	70	C
PROBATION TRAINEE	43100	|	09	NE	70	C
-58-

PROBATION TRAINEE (MINORITY GROUP SPECIALIST)		43060	09	NE	70	C
PROBATION TRAINEE (SPANISH SPEAKING)		43090	09	NE	70	C
PROGRAM ASSISTANT (FIRE COORDINATOR)		41510	10		70	C
PROGRAM COORD (RUNAWAY & HOMELESS YOUTH)		07101	10	NE	70	C
PROGRAM EVALUATION ASSISTANT		07350	11	NE	70	c
PROGRAM LIAISON (CLIENT EMPLOYMENT SVCS)		04880	09	NE	70	c
PROGRAM MONITOR		07220	09	NE	70	c
PROGRAMMER ANALYST		03510	14	NE	70	c
PROGRAMMER 1		03430	10	NE	70	c
PROGRAMMER II		03440	12	NE	70	c
PROGRAMMER TRAINEE		03420	08	NE	70	c
PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORK ASSISTANT		30270	09	NE	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH ASSISTANT		23030	03	NE	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH DENTAL HYGIENIST 1		24060	09	NE	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH SOCIAL WORK ASSISTANT		30330	09	NE	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH SOCIAL WORK ASST (SPANISH SPKG)		30331	09	NE	70	c
PUBLIC INFORMATION SPECIALIST		04040	11	NE	70	c
PUBLICATIONS AIDE		00600	07	NE	70	c
PUMP MAINTENANCE WORKER		60610	06	NE	80	NC
PUMP STATION MAINTENACE SUPERVISOR		60850	12	NE	80	c
PUMP STATION MAINTENANCE WORKER 1		60830	05	NE	80	NC
PUMP STATION MAINTENANCE WORKER II		60840	08	NE	80	NC
PURCHASING CLERK		05280	06	NE	70	C
RECORD CLEARANCE SUPERVISOR		00150	08	NE	70	C
RECORDING CLERK		00130	05	NE	70	C
RECORDING SUPERVISOR		00140	09	NE	70	C
RECORDS PRESERVATION ASSISTANT		03260	07	NE	70	C
RECORDS PRESERVATION SUPERVISOR		03270	09	NE	70	C
RECREATION LEADER		38170	07	NE	80	C
RECREATION SUPERVISOR		38320	10	NE	80	c
REPRODUCTION SERVICES SUPERVISOR		03210	10	NE	70	c
RESEARCH AIDE		04090	07	NE	70	c
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN 1		04100	09	NE	70	c
RESOURCE ANALYST		02220	08	NE	70	c
SAFETY OFFICER		42130	11	NE	70	c
SAFETY TRAINING INSTRUCTOR		42120	09	NE	70	c
SANITARY BIOCHEMIST		22190	10	NE	70	c
SANITARY CHEMIST 1		22110	11	NE	70	c
SANITARY TECHNICIAN		22210	07	NE	70	c
SENIOR CASEWORKER		30020	10	NE	70	c
SENIOR CORRECTION OFFICER		44150	09	NE	80	c
SENIOR MOTOR EQUIPMENT DISPATCHER		60215	07	NE	70	c
SENIOR RECREATION LEADER		38420	08	NE	80	c
SENIOR RESOURCE ANALYST		02222	10	NE	70	c
SENIOR SANITARY TECHNICIAN	—	22220	09	NE	70	c
SENIOR SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT OFFICER		30220	09	NE	70	c
SENIOR WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OPERATOR		61549	09	NE	80	c
SENIOR ZOO ATTENDANT		69230	09	NE	80	I c
-59-
SEWER MAINTENANCE CREW LEADER	63320	10	NE	80	C
SEWER MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR	63340	12	NE	80	C
SEWER MAINTENANCE WORKER 1	60650	05	NE	80	NC
SEWER MAINTENANCE WORKER II	60660	08	NE	80	NC
SOCIAL SERVICES EXAMINER 1	30610	07	NE	70	C
SOCIAL SERVICES INVESTIGATOR 1	40110	09	NE	70	C
SOCIAL SERVICES INVESTIGATOR II	40120	10	NE	70	C
SPECIALIST, SERVICES FOR THE AGING	30880	10	NE	70	C
STENOGRAPHER 1	01100	04	NE	70	c
STENOGRAPHER II	01110	06	NE	70	c
STENOGRAPHER III	01120	07	NE	70	c
STOCK ATTENDENT	60030	02	NE	70	L
STOCK CLERK	05400	04	NE	70	C
STOREKEEPER	05410	07	NE	70	C
STREAM MAINTENANCE CREW LEADER	60600	10	NE	80	c
STREAM MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR	63350	12	NE	80	c
STREAM MAINTENANCE WORKER 1	60580	05	NE	80	NC
STREAM MAINTENANCE WORKER II	60590	08	NE	80	NC
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT AIDE II	04020	05	NE	70	C
SUPERVISING SOCIAL SERVICES INVESTIGATOR	40130	12	NE	70	C
SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT OFFICER	30210	08	NE	70	C
SWIMMING FACILITY MANAGER	38700	05	NE	80	C
SWITCHBOARD OPERATOR	03300	04	NE	70	C
SYSTEMS ANALYST	03450	14	NE	70	C
TAX ABSTRACT CLERK	02180	10	NE	70	C
TAX CLERK	02140	05	NE	70	C
TAX MAP SUPERVISOR	15230	13	NE	80	C
TAX MAP TECHNICIAN 1	15200	. 06	NE	70	C
TAX MAP TECHNICIAN II	15210	11	NE	80	C
TECHNICAL ASSISTANT	99970	06	NE	70	UN
TECHNICAL SPECIALIST	99960	07	NE	70	UN
TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK TECHNICIAN	03700	09	NE	70	C
TELEPHONE TECHNICIAN	03290	07	NE	70	C
TIRE SERVICE MECHANIC	61010	06	NE	80	NC
TRAFFIC SIGNAL REPAIR SUPERVISOR	63590	10	NE	80	C
TRAFFIC SIGNAL REPAIR WORKER 1	63900	06	NE	80	NC
TRAFFIC SIGNAL REPAIR WORKER II	63910	07	NE	80	NC
TRAINING SUPERVISOR	30160	12	NE	70	C
TRAINING UNIT ASSISTANT	30165	04	NE	70	C
TYPIST 1	01000	03	NE	70	C
TYPIST II	01010	05	NE	70	c
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES LOCATOR	61780	08	NE	80	NC
VAULT ATTENDANT	60000	03	NE	70	L
VETERANS COUNSELOR	30450	11	NE	70	C
VETERANS EDUCATION AIDE	09630	07	NE	70	C
VETERANS SERVICE OFFICER	39090	09	NE	70	c
VETERINARY TECHNICIAN	69260	07	NE	80	c
VICTIM ASSISTANT COORDINATOR	08357	08	NE	70	c
-60-
VISITOR CENTER ATTENDENT	38812	03	NE	80	L
VOLUNTEER SERVICES SUPERVISOR	30200	08	NE	80	C
WARD CLERK	00090	04	NE	70	C
WASTEWATER TECHNICIAN 1	61820	08	NE	80	C
WASTEWATER TECHNICIAN II	61810	10	NE	80	C
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT CONSTR INSPECTOR 1	61535	12	NE	80	C
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT CONSTR INSPECTOR II	61536	14	NE	80	C
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT MAINT CREW LEADER	61537	11	NE	80	C
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT MAINT HLPR (I/E)	61538	05	NE	80	NC
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT MAINT HLPR (MECHANICAL)	61539	05	NE	80	NC
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT MAINT MECHANIC	61542	09	NE	80	NC
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT MAINT WRKR (INSTRU/ELEC)	61543	07	NE	80	NC
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT MAINT WRKR (MECHANICAL)	61544	07	NE	80	NC
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT OPERATOR	61545	08	NE	80	C
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT TRAINEE	61546	06	NE	80	C
WATER PLANT ELECTRICIAN	61740	11	NE	80	NC
WATER PLANT LABORATORY TECHNICIAN	22270	08	NE	80	C
WATER PLANT OPERATOR 1 (TYPE A PLANT)	61710	08	NE	80	C
WATER PLANT OPERATOR 1 (TYPE B PLANT)	61830	08	NE	80	C
WATER PLANT TRAINEE	61700	06	NE	80	C
WEB SITE ADMINISTRATOR	03544	13	NE	70	C
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES INSPECTOR	42010	08	NE	70	C
WELDER	61150	08	NE	80	NC
WELFARE FRAUD INVESTIGATOR	30650	10	NE	70	C
WIC ASSISTANT	23040	04	NE	70	C
WIC ASSISTANT (SPANISH SPEAKING)	23033	04	NE	70	C
WORD PROCESSING MACHINE OPERATOR	03560	04	NE	70	C
WORKERS COMPENSATION CLERK	05130	08	NE	70	C
YOUTH COUNSELOR 1	07180	09	NE	70	C
YOUTH EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM SUPERVISOR	07210	09	NE	70	C
ZOO ATTENDANT	60550	05	NE	।	80	NC
-61-
__________ONONDAGA COUNTY TITLE REPORT______________
UNION 12 CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION (BI-WEEKLY SALARIED)
JOB TITLE	TITLE NO,	GRADE	OT ELIG	WKPRD	JC
ACCOUNTANT I	02300	09	EX	70	c
ACCOUNTANT II	02310	11	EX	70	c
ACCOUNTANT III	02320	13	EX	70	c
ACCOUNTING SUPERVISOR, GRADE B	30250	11	EX	70	c
ADMINISTRATIVE ANALYST (SOCIAL SERVICES)	30140	11	EX	70	c
ADMINISTRATIVE ANALYST II	07160	11	EX	70	c
ARCHITECT I	10460	11	EX	70	c
ARCHITECT II	10500	13	EX	70	c
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES	23202	10	EX	70	c
ASSISTANT WELFARE ATTORNEY	50200	15	EX	70	_c
AUDITOR (PAYROLL)	02430	13	EX	70	c
AUDITOR I	02400	09	EX	70	c
AUDITOR II	02410	11	EX	70	c
AUDITOR III	02420	13	EX	70	c
BUILDING MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR	63290	12	EX	80	c
BUILDING MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR (HVAC)	63210	12	EX	70	c
CASE SUPERVISOR "A"	30060	13	EX	70	c
CASE SUPERVISOR "B"	30040	11	EX	70	c
CASEWORK SUPERVISOR	44080	13	EX	80	c
CHIEF HELICOPTER PILOT	62180	13	NE	80	NC
CIVIL ENGINEER III	10220	15	EX	70	c
CLERK II (B/WSALY)	80370	05	NE	70	c
CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST	25030	15	EX	70	c
COMPUTER TECHNICAL SPECIALIST	03340	12	EX	70	c
COORDINATOR OF ELIGIBILITY INVESTIGATIONS	40140	13	EX	70	c
COORDINATOR, WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT AGENCY	15050	13 ;	EX	70	c
DATA PROCESSING TRAINING COORDINATOR	03730	14	EX	70	c
EDUCATION PROGRAM SUPERVISOR (HILLBROOK)	31180	11	EX	70	c
EDUCATION SPECIALIST (HANDICAPPED CHILDREN)	23510	11	EX	70	c
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROGRAM PLANNING SPECIALIST	04540	12	EX	70	c
FORENSIC CHEMIST I	22090	10	EX	70	c
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS SPECIALIST	15300	11	EX	70	c
HOUSING PROGRAM COORDINATOR	42380	14	EX	70	c
HOUSING REHABILITATION SUPERVISOR	06700	11	EX	70	c
INCOME MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR I	30550	11	EX	70	c
INCOME MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR II	30560	13	EX	70	c
INSTRUMENTANTION/ELECTRICAL ENGINEER	61980	13	EX	70	c
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT II	10450	13	EX	70	c
LIBRARIAN I	07680	09	EX	70	c
LIBRARIAN II	07760	11	EX	70	c
LIBRARIAN III	07770	13	EX	70	c
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS TRAINER (SOCIAL SVCS)	30030	10	EX	70	c
MASS SPECTROMETRIST	22201	11	EX	70	c
-62-
MECHANICAL ENGINEER	61526	13	EX	70	C
MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIST 1	22060	10	EX	70	c
MICROGRAPHICS SYSTEMS ANALYST	03870	14	EX	70	c
NUTRITIONIST	71140	10	EX	70	c
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST 1	22350	10	EX	70	c
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST II	22360	12	EX	70	c
PHYSICAL THERAPIST 1	22300	12	EX	70	c
PHYSICAL THERAPIST II	22310	13	EX	70“	c
PLANNER!	15100	11	EX	70	c
PLANNER II	15110	13	EX	70	c
PLANNER III	15120	14	EX	70	c
PLUMBING CONTROL SUPERVISOR	61500	14	EX	70	c
PLUMBING INSPECTOR N	42110	13	EX	70	c
PROBATION SUPERVISOR	43120	13	EX	70	c
PROGRAM COORDINATOR (EDUCATION/HANDICAPPED CHILDREN)	21320	14	EX	70	c
PROGRAM COORDINATOR (HEALTH)	23490	12	EX	70	c
PROGRAM COORDINATOR (HOME BASED SERVICES)	25150	14	EX	70	c
PROGRAM COORDINATOR (W. 1. C.)	21330	13	EX	70	c
PROGRAM MANAGER-ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE SERVICES	25490	15	EX	70	c
PROGRAM MANAGER-MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES	25500	15	EX	70	c
PROJECT DIRECTOR (COMMUNITY SERVICES)	30770	13	EX	70	c
PROJECT DIRECTOR (EISEP)	30740	12	EX	70	c~
PROJECT DIRECTOR (MCOA SENIOR EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM)	30590	12	EX	70	c
PROJECf DIRECTOR (MCOA SENIOR NUTRITION PROGRAM)	30480	13	EX	70	c
PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER 1	30300	11	EX	70	c
PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER II	30310	13	EX	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH EDUCATION SUPERVISOR	21140	11	EX	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH EDUCATOR	23480	09	EX	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEER 1	10350	11	EX	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEER II	10360	13	EX	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEER III	10370	15	EX	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH SOCIAL WORK SUPERVISOR	30360	12	EX	70	c
PUBLIC HEALTH SOCIAL WORKER 1	30340	11	EX	70	c
PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCHER	45042	09	NE	80	c
PUBLIC SAFETY SHIFT SUPERVISOR	45048	12	NE	80	c
PUBLIC SAFETY TELECOMMUNICATOR	45050	07	NE	80	c
QUALITY ASSURANCE COORDINATOR	22435	14	EX	70	c
REHABILITATION COUNSELOR	30316	12	EX	70	c
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN II	04110	11	EX	70	c
RIGHT OF WAY AGENT	06100	12	EX	70	c
SANITARIAN 1	42550	10	EX	70	c
SANITARIAN II	42560	12	EX	70	c
SANITARIAN III	42570	14	EX	70	c
SANITARY CHEMIST II	22120	13	EX	70	c
SANITARY ENGINEER 1	10300	11	EX	70	c
SANITARY ENGINEER II	10310	13	EX	70	c
SANITARY LABORATORY SUPERVISOR	22130	15	EX	70	c
-63-
SENIOR DIETITIAN	71111	13	EX	80	C
SENIOR MEDIA DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST	09033	11	EX		C
SENIOR NUTRITIONIST	71180	12	EX	70	C
SENIOR PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER ASSISTANT	30440	10	EX	70	C
SENIOR SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER	03840	15	EX	70	C
SOCIAL SERVICES PROGRAM PLANNER	30420	11	EX	70	C
SPECIAL EVENTS COORDINATOR	31000	10	EX	80	C
SPECIFICATION WRITER	05370	12	EX	70	C
STUDENT ASSISTANCE COUNSELOR	25460	12	EX	70	C
STUDENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM SUPERVISOR	25450	13	EX	70	C
SUPERVISOR OF DISPATCH OPERATIONS	45045	10	NE	80	c
SYSTEMS ACCOUNTANT	02290	09	EX	70	c
SYSTEMS ACCOUNTING MANAGER	02160	13	EX	70	c
SYSTEMS PROGRAMMER	03590	14	EX	70	c
TEACHER (LANGUAGE ARTS/SOCIAL STUDIES)	31240	10	EX	70	c
TEACHER (MATH/SCIENCE)	31230	10	EX	70 .	c
WATER SYSTEMS CHEMIST 1	22150	11	EX	80	c
WATER SYSTEMS CHEMIST II	22160	13	EX	80	c
WATER SYSTEMS CONSTRUCTION ENGINEER	10660	13	EX	70	c
YOUTH SERVICES COORDINATOR	04680	12	EX	70	c
-64-
CSEA Onondaga County Local 834 Office 5815 Heritage Landing Dr., E. Syracuse, NY 13057
315 *446 *0330
The following CSEA staff professionals can be reached at the CSEA Central Region Office:
Labor Relations Specialist Political Action Coordinator Occupational Safety & Health Specialist Communications Associate Organizer
CSEA Central Region Office
6595 Kirkville Road, E. Syracuse, NY 13057
315 *433 *0050
James J. Moore, President Ron Smith, Region Director
Tcse/H


CSEA Headquarters
143 Washington Avenue Albany, New York 12210
800 • 342 *4146
Danny Donohue, President Mary Sullivan, Executive Vice President
Barbara Reeves, Secretary Maureen Malone, Treasurer
Other Helpful Numbers:
Onondaga County Personnel Department 315 435 3537
Health Insurance Questions 315 435 3498
CSEA Member Benefits Department
800 342 4146 ext. 1359
CSEA/Jardine Optional Insurances 315 437 8671
Onondaga County Local 834 In Touch With You
CSEi^
Local 1000, AFSCME, AFL-CIO
143 Washington Ave., Albany, NY 12210
Danny Donohue, President
