MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO AND
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 2028, AFL-CIO, CLC
(AE, CL, FS, MM, PR, PS, SS UNITS)
JUNE 29, 2001 - JUNE 22, 2006
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
District 1 - Greg Cox
District 2 - Dianne Jacob
District 3 - Pam Slater
District 4 - Ron Roberts
District 5 - Bill Horn
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO AND
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 2028, AFL-CIO, CLC
(AE, CL, FS, MM, PR, PS, SS UNITS)
JUNE 29, 2001 - JUNE 22, 2006
ARTICLE 1.	PREAMBLE
THIS MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT is entered into by the County of San Diego, said political subdivision hereafter designated as “County” and the Service Employees International Union, Local 2028, AFL-CIO, CLC, hereafter designated as “Union” as a mutual recommendation to the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego of those wages, hours, and conditions of employment which are to be in effect during the period from 8:00 a.m. on June 29, 2001 through 5:00 p.m. on June 22, 2006 for those employees working in representation units referred to in Article 2, Section 1 hereof, subject to the provisions in Article 19, Implementation.
ARTICLE 2.	UNION RIGHTS
Section 1.	Recognition
The County of San Diego recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive representative for all classes assigned to each of the following bargaining units (as listed in Appendix “A”) as well as such classes as may be added to these units:
Appraisal, EDP, Fiscal and Purchasing (AE)
Clerical (CL)
Food Services and Housekeeping (FS)
Middle Management (MM)
Professional (PR)
Public Services (PS)
Social Services Supervisors (SS)
The provisions of this Agreement shall be applicable only to employees in classes in the bargaining units above listed.
JT-01
1
ARTICLE 2. UNION RIGHTS (Cont’d.)
Section 2.	Payroll Deduction and Union Dues
In accordance with the rules and regulations of the Auditor and Controller, approved by the Board of Supervisors, it is agreed that Union dues and such other deductions as may be properly requested and lawfully permitted shall be deducted by the County from the salary of each employee covered hereby who files with the County a written authorization requesting that such deductions be made. Remittance of the aggregate amount of all dues and other proper deductions made from the salaries of employees covered hereunder shall be made to the Union by the County.
It is not the intent of this Article to alter the current practice of remitting dues and other deductions to the Union as soon as possible after they have been withheld from salaries of employees.
The County will distribute to each new employee entering the unit the following written information:
“The Service Employees International Union, Local 2028, AFL-CIO, CLC, under the provisions of the San Diego County Labor Relations Ordinance, has been declared the bargaining representative for your job classification concerning wages, hours and working conditions that result from meeting and conferring in good faith between the County and the Union. These wages and benefits are contained in the mutual agreement, copies of which will be made available to you by the Union.
A Union representative, during non-duty hours may request to meet with you personally to tell you about the Union in its role as the recognized certified representative for your job classification. Any additional information you may require can be secured by writing or calling the Union, 4004 Kearny Mesa Road, San Diego, California 92111, telephone (858) 560-0151.
On the basis of the evaluations you make, the decision is yours.”
Section 3.	Maintenance of Membership
A.	Employees who are members of the Union on the effective date of this Agreement, or who thereafter join the Union, shall as a condition of continued employment, maintain their membership in the Union for the term of this Agreement.
B.	However, a member may terminate membership in the months of June during the term of this Agreement by serving notice on the Union or with the Auditor and Controller of the County, that the member desires to terminate his/her union membership and dues deduction.
C.	The Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless, the County for any loss or damages or litigation costs resulting from the operation of this Maintenance of Membership provision. It is also agreed that neither the Union nor any employee shall have any claim against the County for any deductions made or not made, unless a claim of error is filed in writing to the County Auditor and Controller within
JT-01
2
ARTICLE 2. UNION RIGHTS (Cont’d.)
thirty (30) calendar days after the date such deductions were, or should have been made.
Section 4.	Union Access
A.	Authorized Union representatives may be granted access to work locations including all hospital and health care facilities, areas utilized for patient care, treatment, and general work, in which employees covered hereby are employed, for the purpose of conducting grievance investigations and working conditions.
B.	Union representatives will comply with the regulations established in this Article. Union representatives shall not interfere with the work operations of any Department or District of the County. Authorized Union representatives desiring such access to work locations shall first request entrance from the appropriate County representative at which time the authorized representative shall inform said County representative of the purpose of the visit. Union representative shall either telephone the appropriate County representative responsible for the district, division or yard, or shall personally contact such County representative upon entering any work location under his or her supervision.
C.	Said County representative may deny access to a work location if, in his or her judgment, it is deemed that a visit will unduly interfere with the operations of the department or facility thereof. If access is denied, the Union representative shall be informed when access will be made available. Such access shall not be more than 24 hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, after the time of the Union representative’s request, unless otherwise mutually agreed to.
D.	Representatives have the right to meet with employees during coffee, rest, or lunch breaks at County facilities as may be available.
E.	The Union shall notify the Labor Relations Office within seven (7) days of any change of authorized representatives. Access to work locations hereunder will be granted only to representatives on the current list.
Section 5.	Stewards
Purpose: The County affirms the right and recognizes the necessity of the Union to designate employees as stewards. It is agreed by the County and the Union that the purpose of such stewards is to promote an effective relationship between the County and the Union.
JT-01
3
ARTICLE 2. UNION RIGHTS (Cont’d.)
A.	Stewards
The Union may designate stewards to represent employees in the processing of grievances, appeals from disciplinary actions, performance rating appeals, appeals resulting from denial of Workers’ Compensation claims and other formal appeals, subject to the following rules and regulations:
1.	The Union shall be entitled to a steward in each department at each work facility (e.g., County Administration Center, County Operations Center, Courthouse) where there are at least ten (10) employees. Where there are more than twenty-five (25) employees, the Union shall be entitled to appoint one (1) additional steward for each additional twenty-five (25) employees or fraction thereof.
The Union shall furnish the Labor Relations Office with a written list identifying by name and assigned work areas all regular and alternate stewards and the list shall be kept current by the Union.
2.	The Union will designate as a steward only employees who have passed an initial probation period and have been designated as permanent.
3.	Alternate stewards shall be recognized as a regular steward only when such regular steward is absent.
4.	a. The Union shall be entitled to a steward in each department at each work facility (e.g., County Administration Center, County Operations Center, Courthouse) where there are at least ten (10) employees. Where there are more than twenty-five (25) employees, the Union shall be entitled to appoint one (1) additional steward per each additional twenty-five (25) employees or fraction thereof.
b.	The Department Head may request to meet with the Union regarding the placement and the number of shop stewards in the department. The placement and number of stewards may be changed by mutual agreement between the Union and the Department Head.
c.	Two (2) or more departments or work locations may be combined to equal the number of employees necessary to entitle the Union to stewards as provided in paragraph 1 above.
5.	The County shall not transfer nor change the work locations of a steward with the intent of altering the appointed list of designated Union stewards.
6.	Limitation on Time Off: Stewards shall not be granted permission for time off
from their work assignments for the purpose of conducting general Union
JT-01
4
ARTICLE 2. UNION RIGHTS (Cont’d.)
business, except for conducting or assisting in scheduled departmental orientations for new employees.
B.	Handling Grievances
1.	When requested by an employee, a steward may investigate any alleged grievance in his or her assigned area and assist in its preparation and presentation. The steward shall encourage the employee to discuss a problem informally with his/her supervisor prior to filing a formal grievance.
2.	After notifying and receiving approval of his/her immediate supervisor, a steward shall be allowed reasonable time off during working hours (without loss of time) to investigate, prepare and present such grievances. The immediate supervisor will authorize the steward to leave his or her work unless compelling circumstances require refusal of such permission, in which case, the immediate supervisor shall inform the steward of the reasons for the denial and establish an alternate time when the steward can reasonably be expected to be released from his or her work assignment.
3.	When a steward desires to contact an employee at his/her work location, the steward shall first contact the immediate supervisor of that employee, advise him/her of the nature of the business, and obtain the permission to meet with the employee. The immediate supervisor will make the employee available promptly unless compelling circumstances prohibit the employee’s availability, in which case the supervisor will notify the steward when he/she can reasonably expect to contact the employee. Where this prohibition extends beyond one (1) work day, the time limits of the grievance procedure shall be extended for the length of the delay.
4.	A steward’s interview or discussions with an employee on County time will be handled expeditiously.
Section 6.	Bulletin Boards
The County will furnish adequate bulletin board space at reasonable locations for the exclusive use of the Union. The bulletin boards shall only be used for posting:
A.	Union election materials and election results.
B.	Union official business reports of the Board of Directors or Committees, or Stewards’ reports and notices.
C.	Union news bulletins and meeting notices.
jt-01	5
ARTICLE 2. UNION RIGHTS (Cont’d.)
D.	Union membership benefits, programs, promotional information.
E.	Other written materials which have been approved for posting by the Department.
Section 7.	Mail Stop
The County shall provide a mailbox for the Service Employees International Union, Local 2028 at the County Mail Center located at 5201 Ruffin Road.
This mailbox shall be used only for mail:
1.	Addressed to the Union, from an officer or member of County management, the Board of Supervisors, or Civil Service Commission, or
2.	Addressed to an officer or member of County management, the Board of Supervisors or Civil Service Commission from the Union, and
3.	Which relates to the business with and of the County.
The Union shall not use the County mail service to correspond with a non-member, member, or Union representative. If the Union receives correspondence via County mail service from such a source, the Union shall inform the source that the County mail service cannot be used for such correspondence.
With respect to U.S. Mail addressed to employees and delivered to a County mailing address, the County will make all reasonable efforts to assure the employees receive such mail.
The mail stop number assigned to the Union is O850.
Section 8.	Printing of Memorandum of Agreement
Each party shall bear the per unit cost of printing copies of MOAs for distribution by the respective party to management and employees.
Section 9.	Employee’s Appearance for the Union
The County may grant a maximum of sixteen (16) hours time off per month without loss of compensation or other benefits to an employee representative of the Union when attending meetings of the Civil Service Commission, Labor Relations Office, Retirement Board, or Board of Supervisors when the agenda for such meetings contains an item which directly affects the Union. Such release time shall be approved at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance by the Union, the Department and the Labor Relations Office. Such approval shall
JT-01
6
ARTICLE 2. UNION RIGHTS (Cont’d.)
not be unreasonably withheld. No more than three (3) additional employee representatives will be granted similar time off for each appearance when they actually testify before the Civil Service Commission, Labor Relations Office, the Board of Supervisors, or a scheduled meeting between the Union and the County.
Section 10.	Unpaid Union Leave
One (1) employee may be granted up to six (6) months of leave without pay with right to return to work for the Union. This leave must be requested from the Labor Relations Division of the Department of Human Resources and approved by the employee’s Department. Requests for this leave shall not be unreasonably denied.
ARTICLE 3. NO DISCRIMINATION
In receiving the rights afforded by this Agreement, no person shall in any way be favored or discriminated against to the extent prohibited by law because of political or religious opinions or affiliations, or sexual orientation, or because of racial or national origin, or because of age or sex or physical handicap.
JT-01
7
ARTICLE 4. WAGES AND OTHER RELATED ISSUES
Section 1.	Wages
A.	Wages effective June 29, 2001 shall be set forth in Appendix “A” hereof.
B.	Wages effective December 14, 2001 for all classes in the Clerical Unit and additional related classes shall be set forth in Appendix “A” hereof.
C.	Wages effective June 28, 2002 shall be set forth in Appendix “A” hereof.
D.	Wages effective December 13, 2002 for all classes in the Clerical Unit shall be set
forth in Appendix “A” hereof.
E.	Wages	effective	June	27, 2003 shall	be set	forth	in Appendix “A” hereof.
F.	Wages	effective	June	25, 2004 shall	be set	forth	in Appendix “A” hereof.
G.	Wages	effective	June	24, 2005 shall	be set	forth	in Appendix “A” hereof.
H.	During	the term	of this Memorandum of Agreement, the County has the non-
appealable right to increase compensation for classifications covered by this Agreement. Prior to implementing any wage increase, the County shall discuss, in a non-meet-and-confer forum, its intention(s) with the Union.
I.	Quality First Program
A “Quality First” performance based team incentive plan in addition to regular wages set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement shall be instituted in County departments. The purpose of Quality First will be to insure the achievement of quality service and customer satisfaction.
The Quality First program provides up to two percent (2.0%) in temporary incentive pay annually for success in achieving at least 2.0% savings through the program. To reward a team of employees whose efforts result in surpassing two percent (2.0%) in goals/savings, employees can receive, in a temporary salary adjustment an additional increase on a 50/50 basis (50 cents on the dollar) up to a maximum of four percent (4.0%) in accordance with the following:
1.	Fiscal Year 2001-2002: A Quality First Program adjustment for a temporary period of time up to a maximum of four percent (4.0%) of an employees biweekly rate of pay pursuant to the provisions implemented in the Quality First Program.
JT-01
8
ARTICLE 4. WAGES AND OTHER RELATED ISSUES (Cont'd)
2.	Fiscal Year 2002-2003:	A Quality First Program adjustment for a temporary period of time up to a maximum of four percent (4.0%) of an employees biweekly rate of pay pursuant to the provisions implemented in the Quality First Program.
3.	Fiscal Year 2003-2004:	A Quality First Program adjustment for a temporary period of time up to a maximum of four percent (4.0%) of an employees biweekly rate of pay pursuant to the provisions implemented in the Quality First Program.
4.	Fiscal Year 2004-2005:	A Quality First Program adjustment for a temporary period of time up to a maximum of four percent (4.0%) of an employees biweekly rate of pay pursuant to the provisions implemented in the Quality First Program.
5.	Fiscal Year 2005-2006:	A Quality First Program adjustment for a temporary period of time up to a maximum of four percent (4.0%) of an employees biweekly rate of pay pursuant to the provisions implemented in the Quality First Program.
SAVINGS	ANNUALIZED TEMPORARY WAGE RATE % INCREASE
Aggregate Amount Saved	Total Potential Employee Payout
2.0%	2.0%
3.0%	2.5%
4.0%	3.0%
5.0%	3.5%
6.0% maximum	4.0% maximum
The Quality First programs shall be at the discretion of the County and shall not be subject to appeal under the Grievance Procedure of this Agreement.
This program shall not result in any negative personnel action, loss of regular compensation, loss of promotion or any other punitive action against an employee or group of employees.
Quality First programs are separate from and in addition to other current discretionary award programs for County employees.
JT-01
9
ARTICLE 4. WAGES AND OTHER RELATED ISSUES (Cont'd)
Employee Eligibility Criteria:
To be eligible to participate in the Quality First Program requires that, during each applicable plan year which begins on July 1st:
a.	The employee must have begun his/her employment with the County on or before December 31st;
b.	The employee must not have received a sub-standard performance evaluation or equivalent rating; and
c.	The employee must not have received final disciplinary action, which includes any County appeal or County review procedures including the Civil Service Commission. Disciplinary actions are defined as those formal actions that are recognized by the Civil Service Rules, Section 7.3 but shall not include written reprimands.
The department will notify the Union when the planning process begins for a Pay for Performance Program. The department will ask the Union to attend and participate in the planning session with employees and managers on the establishment of the goals and objectives of the Program. Such programs will be developed at the department level or other divisional unit. The department may institute Quality First goals and objectives for smaller work groups in conjunction with department Quality First plans. The Chief Administrative Officer will have final approval of all programs.
J.	Direct Deposit of Payroll Warrants
Effective July 1,2001, all employees hired on or after July 1,2001 must have made arrangements for the direct deposit of their paychecks via electronic fund transfer into the financial institution of their choice using forms approved by the Auditor/Controller. All employees hired on or prior to June 30, 2001 who have not made arrangements for direct deposit of their paychecks via electronic transfer will be grandfathered.
K.	Edgemoor “Passthrough” Program Lump Sum
A one-time lump sum payment of one thousand dollars ($1,000) shall be paid to employees identified by the Union on 6/29/01 in the following classifications:
4407 - Recreational Therapist
3046 - Medical Records Clerk
The one-time lump sum is in addition to the compensation provided to the employees identified herein who are on paid status during any part of the pay period #01 (June 29-July 12, 2001).
JT-01
10
ARTICLE 4. WAGES AND OTHER RELATED ISSUES (Cont'd)
Such one-time payment of $1,000 shall: (a) be subject to normal tax deductions; (b) not modify the salary base for computation of premiums, bonuses or overtime computation; and (c) not continue beyond Fiscal Year 2001-2002. This payment is made unconditionally to all eligible employees and is not related to the quality and quantity of the employee’s past or future service. This payment shall be made on July 20, 2001.
Section 2.	Step Plan
A.	Employed before July 1, 1974
Employees as of June 30, 1974, having an appointment as a result of blanketing-in, suspension of competitive examination or certification from an eligible list, who has served in his/her class for at least 26 weeks at Step 1, 2, or 3, or for at least 52 weeks at Step 4, shall advance on the first day of the next succeeding biweekly pay period to the next higher step within the range prescribed herein for his/her class. This provision shall apply as long as the employee has unbroken service, even though he/she may change classification.
B.	Employed July 1, 1974 or subsequently
Employees employed on July 1, 1974 or subsequently, having an appointment as a result of suspension of competitive examination or certification from an eligible list, who has served in his/her class for at least 26 weeks at Step 1, or at least 52 weeks at Step 2, 3, or 4, shall advance on the first day of the next succeeding biweekly pay period to the next higher step within the range prescribed herein for his/her class.
C.	Employees covered by this Agreement may not advance to the next higher step if, for the preceding performance rating period, the employee’s overall performance was rated at a below standard level (i.e., unsatisfactory, improvement needed).
Employees may advance to the next higher step if, for the preceding performance rating period, the employees’ overall performance was rated standard or higher.
An employee who has received a below standard rating shall receive, if requested by the employee, a supplemental appraisal midway through the employee’s next appraisal cycle. Pursuant to Civil Service Rule 5, this supplemental appraisal shall be dated from the date of the previous rating period and will adjust the beginning date of the next appraisal. The administrative appeal process set forth in Civil Service Rule 5.1.5 shall be available to employees who have been rated below standard and thereby denied a step increase. If the employee receives a standard rating on the supplemental evaluation, he/she will receive his/her step increase effective the first day of the first pay period following such evaluation.
JT-01
11
ARTICLE 4. WAGES AND OTHER RELATED ISSUES (Cont'd)
E. Variable Entry
The County has the right to:
1.	determine which class(es), if any, shall be designated “variable entry”;
2.	implement such determinations as the County deems advisable.
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES
Section 1.	Hours of Work
This Section is intended to define the normal hours of work and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day, per week, or of days or of work period.
A.	Work Day
The standard work day shall be eight (8) consecutive hours of work exclusive of a lunch period in a consecutive twenty-four (24) hour day.
B.	Work Period
The standard work periods shall be as follows:
1.	For FLSA-covered classes, the standard work period is seven (7) consecutive days within which is included two (2) consecutive days of rest in a seven (7) consecutive day period. This work period shall be forty (40) hours, except as provided herein.
2.	For FLSA-exempt classes, excluding “grandfathered” incumbents (as of 1/15/87), the standard work period is fourteen (14) consecutive days within which is included four (4) days of rest (two (2) instances of two (2) consecutive days of rest, each) in a fourteen (14) consecutive day period. This work period shall be eighty (80) hours.
These standard work periods shall apply to both full-time and permanent part-time employees.
C.	Twenty-Four Hour Operations
Employees who report to work on shifts which begin in one calendar date and end in the next shall be compensated for the entire shift for the date the shift begins.
JT-01
12
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
Shifts shall not be scheduled to include split shifts, except in temporary emergency situations.
A minimum of eight (8) hours of rest will be provided between the end of one shift and the beginning of a new shift.
D.	Changes
The hours of work of the office or facility shall be established by the appointing authority and may be changed to meet operational or other requirements upon fourteen (14) calendar days notice to the affected employees.
Where work schedules are regularly and routinely used, such schedules shall be posted in plain view at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the effective date of any routine and general work schedule change.
E.	Shift Preference
An employee who wishes to change to a different shift within his/her facility and department may submit such a request in writing to the department’s personnel section or to his/her supervisor. “Shift” is defined as one segment of a 24-hour facility work day. Such requests will be considered by management prior to filling a vacancy in the employee’s class on the desired shift. In the event two or more employees are equally qualified to transfer to a vacant shift, and desire to do so, the employee with the most seniority in the department shall prevail. Seniority in this instance is defined as longest continuous service in the class in the department.
In the event two or more employees having the same length of service in the class in the department desire the vacant shift, the tie shall be broken by overall County seniority.
However, it is understood that these provisions in no way prevent management from making administrative changes in personnel or shift assignments, to meet operational requirements, on the basis of employee qualifications and without regard to seniority. Administrative changes implemented by the department are within the sole discretion of the department.
F.	Job-Sharing/Part-Time Requests
Employees may request to participate in job-sharing or become permanent part-time employees. Such requests are to be presented to the employee’s immediate supervisor and the appointing authority. The Department of Human Resources’ voluntary transfer list may also be utilized by employees, especially those interested in job-sharing or permanent part-time positions in other departments.
Section 2.	Overtime Work and Compensation
JT-01
13
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
A.	This Section is intended only to provide the basis for the calculation of and payment for overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per pay period.
B.	Full-time and permanent part-time employees’ overtime is authorized or ordered work, actually worked by an employee, which is in excess of the full regularly scheduled work period as defined in Article 5, Section 1 (B) (1) and (2) of this Agreement. No full-time or permanent part-time employee will be paid overtime unless he/she actually works more than the total number of hours in the full (40, 80 or more) work period as defined hereinabove.
Irregular Schedules
For employees in exempt classes, (overtime designator “C”), when a mutually-agreeable irregular work schedule is adopted as the employee’s routine work schedule, and such schedule results in the employee working more, or less, than forty (40) hours in a week, but which schedule totals eighty (80) hours in a biweekly pay period, the hours worked in the weeks which exceed forty (40) hours shall not be considered overtime in accordance with the definition of work periods hereinabove.
Computation of Overtime
Computation of overtime shall be based on the employee’s regular rate of pay. This regular rate shall include the base rate for the employee’s classification plus all differentials or bonus rates to which the employee would be entitled for the overtime work performed.
Exclusion of Leave from Hours Actually Worked
Notwithstanding any other policy, practice, rule, regulation or Memorandum of Agreement provision (except Section 3, Call-Back Work) to the contrary, any absence including, but not limited to, paid sick leave, disability leave, bereavement leave, vacation, holiday, jury duty, reporting for a draft board, compensatory time off or the investigation, preparation or presentation of a grievance, or other release time granted for an employee to engage in lawful employee organization activity, or unpaid work furlough or any other paid or unpaid time off which may be infrequent, sporadic or unpredictable, shall not be counted as hours actually worked during a work period when establishing eligibility for any type of overtime compensation.
Compensation for Overtime
Compensation is defined as either cash payment or compensatory time off, or a combination of cash payment and compensatory time off, in accordance with the
JT-01
14
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
overtime code for the employee’s class. Employees shall have their overtime hours computed as follows:
Code “F”	- Employees covered by FLSA are eligible for overtime
(FLSA Covered) at time and one-half cash or compensatory time off.
All employees - All employees are eligible for a minimum of three (3) hours call-back overtime at time and one-half cash or compensatory time off (4.5 hours).
Code “C”	- Employees exempt from FLSA are eligible for straight
(FLSA Exempt) cash or compensatory time off.
Appendix “A” of this Agreement set forth the overtime codes for each class.
The decision to pay for overtime worked in cash or compensatory time off shall be at the discretion of the appointing authority.
C.	Accrual of Compensatory Time Off
When an employee is allowed to accumulate compensatory time off, such accrual shall be limited to a maximum of 160 hours at the beginning of a biweekly pay period. Balances which exceed 160 hours will automatically be reduced to 160 hours.
Employees will be given the opportunity to take off accumulated compensatory time before exceeding 160 hours or having their accumulation reduced. When granting compensatory time off, the appointing authority will give consideration to the desires of the employee.
An employee shall have fifteen (15) working days advance notice before being required to take compensatory time off. This 15-day notice shall not apply to departments headed by elected appointing authorities unless approved by said elected appointing authorities.
An employee, who has reached 80% of the maximum accrual limit of compensatory time off, may request the appointing authority to pay off a specified amount of FLSA (=F= coded) compensatory time which was earned and credited while actually working in an overtime status. When pay off is approved by the appointing authority, it shall be paid on an hour for hour basis at the employee=s current rate.
Employees who are laid off shall receive compensation for unused compensatory time (See: Article 10, Section 11 (I) - “Cash in Lieu of Compensatory Time Off”) earned after April 15, 1986, in an FLSA-covered status. Such compensation shall not exceed 160 hours.
JT-01
15
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
If an employee transfers for any reason other than discipline or demotes in lieu of layoff to a classification whose maximum allowable accumulation of compensating time off is less than that of this Section (160 hours), such employee shall be given one-year period after such transfer or demotion to reduce accumulated compensating time off to the lower accumulation.
All unused compensatory time will be paid off in event of death of the employee.
D.	Compensation for Overtime and Holidays Worked by Supervising Registered Nurses in the Middle Management (MM) Unit Only
Overtime and compensation for holidays worked for employees in classes in the Supervising Nurse Classes 4544 - Supervising Nurse, and 4570 - Supervising Public Health Nurse in the Middle-Management (MM) Unit shall be computed on the basis of time and one-half cash or CTO for time actually worked in the standard work period. Upon request of the employee and with approval of the appointing authority, employees may receive compensatory time off for overtime instead of cash compensation up to a limit of 80 hours of compensatory time
E.	Residential Care Facilities
Employees employed in a County hospital or facility primarily engaged in the care of persons who are sick, the aged, or the mentally ill (or) (defective), which persons reside on the premises may be compensated at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate for any work actually performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any workday and in excess of eighty (80) hours in a fourteen (14) consecutive day work period.
Section 3.	Call-Back Work
A.	Definition
Call-back work is work required of an employee who, following completion of the employee’s work day and departure from the employee’s work site, is ordered to report back to duty to perform necessary work.
Qualifications. To qualify for this call-back provision, an employee must leave the place from which the employee is called and actually report to a work site. Neither changes in a shift or work schedule when at least 15 hours advance notice is given, nor service performed on a regular standby shift, or from a voluntary listing on an available list (Section 5) shall constitute call-back work.
JT-01
16
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
Compensation. An employee who is called back, as defined above, shall receive a minimum of three hours time at either time-and-one-half pay or comp time at time and one-half for a minimum of three (3) hours.
The decision to pay for overtime worked in cash or compensating time off shall be the sole discretion of the appointing authority, and is non-appealable by the employee.
Exclusion of Paid Leave. Paid leave shall not affect compensation for hours actually worked in excess of three hours and not a part of a regular work shift for covered or exempt employees called back during a work period (pursuant to Section 2.B. above). Actual work performed in excess of three hours and not part of a regular work shift shall be compensated as overtime in the same manner such employees (covered or exempt) receive scheduled overtime compensation.
Upon mutual agreement between the employee and the appointing authority, callback overtime hours actually worked may be used to delay the start of the next work day.
B.	Overtime at Place of Contact
An employee contacted by the department during his/her off duty hours and required to perform services without leaving the place of contact, shall receive compensation for such time worked in the same manner such employees receive scheduled overtime compensation. To be eligible for such compensation, employees must be authorized and ordered by the department to perform such services.
C.	Court Call-Back
Call-back shall also include an order to appear before a court where the employee is representing the County and not on his/her regular shift.
D.	Employees called back to duty shall, except for emergency situations, be given eight (8) hours rest in the 24-hour period which began at the start of their last normal shift. When an employee’s next normal shift must be rescheduled to provide this eight (8) hours rest, non-routine shift change premium shall not be applicable.
E.	Medical Examiner Investigators (Classes 5740 - Medical Examiner Investigator II and 5741 - Medical Examiner Investigator I) contacted by the department during standby shifts and required to perform services without leaving their place of contact shall receive credit for a minimum of one hour at time-and-one-half pay. Only one call-back, as defined herein, is applicable for each standby shift.
F.	Additional Assignment While on Call-Back
JT-01
17
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
An employee who is contacted while serving a call-back (as defined above) and is called to another site for additional duties, shall not be compensated for a second or subsequent call-back for this assignment. However, if the employee has left the work site, or sites, and is actually returning, or has returned, to his/her original point of contact, and is then called back again, the employee shall be compensated for an additional call-back.
Section 4.	Standby Duty Compensation
A.	Standby Duty Defined
Standby duty means that an employee is assigned to specific hours outside the normal workweek assignment, during which the employee must remain where such employee can be contacted by telephone, ready for immediate return to work to perform an essential service.
B.	Critical Standby Duty Defined
A standby shift is “critical” where the employee must report immediately upon being called to perform a service which cannot be delayed until the next normal working day, which service is so critical as to frequently mean the difference between life and death.
C.	Standby Positions Designated
The Chief Administrative Officer must approve the designation of all Standby positions and Critical Standby positions.
D.	Standby duty shall not count as time worked, except to the extent that an employee is required to, and does actually return to a work place and perform actual service. Employees assigned to standby shall not be entitled to call-back work compensation, unless otherwise provided under the call-back provisions.
E.	Standby Compensation
Employees shall be paid the equivalent of one hour’s compensation for each normal standby shift, provided such shift is not longer than the employee’s normal workday. A normal workday is defined as at least eight hours. Employees shall be paid the equivalent of two hours compensation for each “critical” standby shift. Standby compensation shall be made for only those employees occupying positions designated as Standby in accord with Section 4 (C) and (G) hereof.
JT-01
18
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
F.	Medical Examiner Investigators on a regular shift or on a standby shift will be required to maintain on their persons, electronic pagers provided and maintained by the County. A Medical Examiner Investigator while on standby duty shall not be required to remain at home and may engage in personal activities away from his/her home, provided such activities shall not take place in areas in the County of San Diego which are beyond the range of the electronic pagers in which case, the Medical Examiner Investigator shall leave word with the Medical Examiner’s Office as to where he/she may be reached. A Medical Examiner Investigator on standby duty shall urgently and diligently respond to a call for his/her services. Failure to urgently and diligently respond shall constitute grounds for disciplinary action by the appointing authority, provided such disciplinary action shall be subject to review under the County’s Grievance Procedure. A Medical Examiner Investigator may not be assigned standby duty of more than two shifts per week.
An employee in Classes 5740 - Medical Examiner Investigator II, or 5741 - Medical Examiner Investigator I, who is contacted by the department during a standby shift and required to perform services without leaving his/her place of contact shall receive credit for a minimum of one hour at time-and-one-half pay. This payment shall be applicable only to the first such occurrence during each standby shift.
G.	Standby duty served by Classes 5740 - Medical Examiner Investigator II and 5741 -
Medical Examiner Investigator I shall be designated as “critical” and, therefore, shall be compensated at the equivalent of two hours compensation for each normal “critical” standby shift.
H.	Application of Standby Compensation for Court Order or Subpoena. When a Medical Examiner Investigator I - 5741 or Medical Examiner Investigator II - 5742, is ordered through subpoena by the District Attorney to remain available on standby for contact to report to a court to give required testimony, such employee shall be paid the equivalent of one hour’s compensation for each day standby is served.
I.	Standby Duty served by Classes 5738 - Criminalist I, 5737 - Criminalist II, 5736 -Criminalist III, 5721 - Document Examiner, 5739 - Latent Fingerprint Technician, 5734 - Supervising Criminalist, 5716 - Forensic Evidence Technician, shall be designated as “critical” and, therefore, shall be compensated at the equivalent of two (2) hours compensation for each normal “critical” Standby Shift.
J.	Hazardous Incident Response Duty - Environmental Health Specialists. Employees in eligible classes contacted by the department and required to remain available on standby for hazardous incident response work shall be compensated at Step 5 of the rate for Class 4723 - Environmental Health Specialist III, for each standby hour. Employees must possess current training and certification in hazardous incident response work to be considered eligible.
Eligible Classes:
JT-01
19
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
4722 - Environmental Health Specialist II 4723 - Environmental Health Specialist III
Section 5.	Available Time
A.	Available Time Defined
Available time means that an employee has requested to be considered for hours of work in addition to his/her routine work schedule during which such employee can be contacted by telephone for immediate return to duty to perform an essential service.
B.	Available time shall not count as time worked, except to the extent that an employee is required to, and does perform actual service. Such time performing actual service shall be compensated at the employee’s regular overtime rate.
Section 6.	Non-Routine Shift Change Compensation
Where employees are scheduled in advance for a specific shift and specific days off for any biweekly pay period and it becomes necessary for management to change such a shift or day off to meet operational needs or cover for unscheduled absences, an employee whose schedule is changed with less than 14 calendar days notice shall receive a $30 premium in addition to the prescribed biweekly salary for such employee’s classification. This in no way affects an employee’s right to the call-back or overtime provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement.
Section 7.	Shift Differential
A.	Employees shall be entitled to second (night) shift differential. Such second shift differential shall be 55 cents per hour, in addition to the hourly rate of pay prescribed for the employee’s classification. Second shift differential shall be paid to an employee who is assigned to an established second (night) shift where more than half of the hours of such shift occur between 5 p.m. and 8 a.m.
B.	Employees shall be entitled to third (graveyard) shift differential. Such third shift differential shall be 55 cents per hour, in addition to the hourly rate of pay prescribed for the employee’s classification. Third shift differential shall be paid to an employee who is assigned to an established third (graveyard) shift where more than half of the hours of such shift occur between 5 p.m. and 8 a.m.
C.	This premium shall apply to time worked and shall not apply towards paid time off or
to terminal payoff.
D.	1. Employees in the class designated below shall be entitled to second (night) shift differential. Such second shift differential shall be one dollar and twenty-
JT-01
20
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
five cents ($1.25) per hour in addition to the hourly rate of pay prescribed for the employee’s classification. Second shift differential shall be paid to an employee who is assigned to an established second (night) shift where more than half of the hours of such shift occurs between 5:00 P.M. and 12:00 A.M. (midnight).
2.	Employees in the class designated below shall be entitled to third (graveyard) shift differential. Such third shift differential shall be two dollars and twenty-five cents ($2.25) per hour in addition to the hourly rate of pay prescribed for the employee’s classification. Third shift differential shall be paid to an employee who is assigned to an established third (graveyard) shift where more than half of the hours of such shift occurs between 12:00 A.M. (midnight) and 8:00 A.M.
Eligible Class:
4544 - Supervising Nurse
Section 8.	Temporary Assignment Compensation
Upon written request of an appointing authority, prior to assignment (or in an emergency within five working days thereafter), the Director, Department of Human Resources, may approve a temporary advancement of a qualified employee assigned to perform the duties of a class which is compensated at a rate higher than such employee’s class when such position is temporarily vacant or the incumbent is absent therefrom. The assignment must be for over three (3) weeks but not over twenty-six (26) weeks. Employees on temporary assignments, after three (3) weeks, will be compensated from the first day of appointment.
When an employee is assigned to an approved temporary advancement status, he/she will remain in his/her current class but shall be paid a bonus rate which shall be the difference between the rate of compensation of his/her current class and that of the temporarily vacant class.
At the conclusion of such assignment, the rate shall return to the normal rate for the employee’s current class. An employee who is temporarily assigned to the duties of a higher class and who terminates or is terminated from County service during such assignment, shall be paid terminal benefits at the rate appropriate to such employee’s current class.
Section 9.	Temporary Service with Registrar of Voters
Any employee other than an employee of the Registrar of Voters, designated by the Chief Administrative Officer and temporarily assigned to work on a holiday or in addition to his/her
JT-01
21
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
regular work shift for the said Registrar in connection with any general, special or primary election, shall be paid in the manner established by this Section.
A.	An employee in a class assigned overtime designator “F” pursuant to Section 1.6.2 of the Compensation Ordinance shall receive compensatory time off hour for hour and cash compensation at a one-half time rate for the first eight hours or less of such work, and cash compensation at one and one-half time rate for service in excess of the first eight hours in a single shift.
B.	An employee not in a class assigned overtime designator “F” shall receive compensatory time off hour for hour for all such work.
C.	Sections 1.6.2 (d) and 1.6.2 (g) of the Compensation Ordinance apply to compensatory time off earned pursuant to this Section.
Section 10.	Compensation for Lunch Time Supervisors of Adult - Institution Residents
Any employee, except Adult Institutions employees who are scheduled to work more than 40 hours per week, who is required to supervise Adult Institution residents during his/her lunch period shall, at the employee’s option, be granted either equal compensatory time off or be paid cash compensation for such work. The rate of compensation shall be computed in accordance with Section 1.6 of the Compensation Ordinance.
Section 11.	Night Duty Compensation in Overnight Camping Parks
Upon the approval of the Director of Parks and Recreation, an employee in an eligible class shall be paid at a rate of two (2) hours pay for each night that he/she is assigned night duty as described in A, B, and C, below at a County overnight camping park.
Eligible Classes:
6342 - Senior Park Ranger
6343 - Supervising Park Ranger
Upon approval of the Director of Parks and Recreation, four (4) employees in an eligible class who are assigned to roving duty, shall be paid at a rate of one (1) hour of pay for each work day he/she is assigned at a County park.
Eligible Classes:
6342 - Senior Park Ranger
6343 - Supervising Park Ranger
jt-01	22
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
A.	Night duty means that an employee is assigned to specific hours outside the normal work week during which he/she must remain in the camping park overnight to provide public safety and enforce park rules and regulations by performing related tasks and maintaining an on-call status;
B.	Only one employee will be assigned night duty in any one park at any one time;
C.	All hours worked by an employee while assigned night duty, to perform tasks above
and beyond normal night duty assignments critical to maintaining public safety or enforcing park rules and regulations shall be compensated on an overtime basis as specified in Article 5, Section 2 of this Agreement;
D.	This premium shall apply to time worked and shall not apply toward paid time off or to terminal payoff.
Section 12.	Transcribing Premium
An employee in an eligible class who is regularly assigned and certified by the appointing authority as working more than 50% of his/her time, or who is assigned more than 40 hours in any one biweekly pay period, to transcribe from mechanical dictating equipment on a continuous basis, shall be paid an hourly premium of 37% cents. This premium shall apply to time worked and shall not apply towards paid time off or to terminal payoff.
Eligible Classes:
2700 - Intermediate Clerk Typist
2730 - Senior Clerk
Section 13.	Work Location Premiums
Work premiums designated as bonus rates and which are stated as a percentage, shall be added to the employee’s basic hourly rate of compensation. When more than one premium is applicable, each premium shall separately be added to the employee’s basic hourly rate. Premiums shall not be pyramided or compounded.
Work premiums designated as biweekly dollar amounts shall be added in a lump sum to the employee’s biweekly compensation without regard for the employee’s basic hourly rate.
A.	Health Services Institutional
Employees in the Health & Human Services Agency class designated below who occupy positions which are assigned to institutional work locations and who are assigned to a work station located within the specified institution, facility, locked ward or unit, or other specifically identified site, as the employee’s principal work
JT-01
23
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
station, shall receive additional compensation of approximately five percent (5%) above their regular base pay rate for such assignment. This premium shall apply to time worked and shall not apply towards paid time off or to terminal payoff.
Eligible Class:
7085 - Supervising Custodian (In all locations)
B.	Supervising Nurse Work Location Premiums
Employees in classifications designated below whose principal assignments are to Juvenile Hall, Jail Institutional Work Locations or Rural Detention Institutional designated below shall receive additional compensation at a rate approximately ten percent (10%) above their regular base rate for such assignment. This premium shall apply to time worked only and shall not apply towards paid time off or to terminal payoff.
Eligible Classes:
4546 - Sheriffs Detention Supervising Nurse
Locations:
!	East Mesa Jail
!	Central Jail
!	Vista Jail
!	Las Colinas (Women’s)
!	Las Colinas (Men’s)
!	El Cajon Jail
!	South Bay Jail
!	Descanso
! Psychiatric Security Unit (Central Jail, George Bailey & Las Colinas)
4544 - Supervising Nurse
Locations:
!	Camp Barrett
!	Camp West Fork
!	Rancho del Rayo
!	Rancho del Campo
!	Descanso
!	Juvenile Hall
C.	Positions in Medical and Jail Locations
JT-01
24
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
An employee in classes listed below assigned to work at a detention facility, as his/her primary work location, shall be paid twenty-five (25) cents per hour in addition to the salary prescribed for his/her class for each hour worked in:
Inpatients Units
Admissions and Screening
!	San Diego County Psychiatric Hospital
Medication Management
!	Central Regional Clinic
!	East County Outpatient Clinic
!	Forensic Mental Health Services
!	Grantville
!	North Coastal Outpatient Clinic
!	North Inland Outpatient Clinic
!	Southeast Region Outpatient Clinic
!	Camp Barrett
!	Juvenile Ranch Facility
Jail Information
Booking
Release Sections
Dispensary of the Sheriff’s Department
Psychiatric Security Unit at the Jail
Juvenile Hall
Emergency Screening (Vista Hill Hospital)
Jail Kitchens
Sheriff=s Central Production Center
Sheriff=s Central Laundry
JT-01
25
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
Eligible Classes:
2403 - Accounting Technician
2430 - Cashier
2493 - Intermediate Account Clerk
2494 - Payroll Clerk
2510 - Senior Account Clerk
2511 - Senior Payroll Clerk
2513 - Senior Cashier
2650 - Stock Clerk
2658 - Storekeeper II
2660 - Storekeeper I
2664 - Pharmacy Stock Clerk
2700 - Intermediate Clerk Typist
2708 - Hospital Unit Clerk
2709 - Departmental Clerk
2710 - Junior Clerk Typist
2715 - Records Clerk
2725 - Principal Clerk
2730 - Senior Clerk
2745 - Supervising Clerk
2756 - Administrative Secretary I
2757 - Administrative Secretary II
2760 - Stenographer
3007 - Junior Word Processor
3008 - Word Processor Operator
3009 - Senior Word Processor Operator
3046 - Medical Records Clerk
5236 - Departmental Aide
6405 - Food Services Supervisor
6410 - Senior Cook
6411 - Cook
6415 - Food Services Worker
6530 - Laundry Worker
6531 - Laundry Worker II
6520 - Linen Marker & Distributor
7520 - Sewing Room Operator
7530 - Sewing Room Supervisor
D.	Remote Locations
An employee in a class listed below, who is assigned to routinely perform his/her duties during a regularly scheduled work week at a work location designated below as remote, shall receive 25 cents per hour in addition to base rate compensation. Employees who live in County-owned housing at the locations designated below or
JT-01
26
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
who reside within twenty (20) miles of these locations shall not be eligible to receive this premium, except for those employees who were receiving this premium on or prior to June 25, 1981.
Locations:
Camp Westfork
Camp Morena
Camp Barrett
Descanso Detention Facility
Rancho Del Campo
Rancho Del Rayo
Eligible Classes:
2568 - Storekeeper II
2660 - Storekeeper I
2650 - Stock Clerk
5236 - Departmental Aide
6405 - Food Services Supervisor
6410 - Senior Cook
6411 - Cook
6415 - Food Services Worker
E.	Jail/Institutional Locations: Sheriffs Social Worker Unit
Effective June 28, 2002, an eligible employee in a classification designated below whose principal assignment is to jail institutional work locations specifically designated below shall receive additional compensation at a rate approximately ten percent (10%) above the employee’s regular base rate for such assignment. This premium shall apply to time worked but shall not apply to terminal payoff.
Jail/Institutional Work Locations:
!	Central Jail
!	Las Colinas
!	Vista Detention Facility
!	George Bailey	Detention Facility
JT-01
27
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
Eligible Classes:
4400 - Occupational Therapist
4407 - Recreational Therapist
5279 - Sheriff’s Detention, Clinical Social Worker
5280 - Sheriff’s Detention, Chief Clinical Social Worker
F.	Employees in classes designated below who occupy positions which are assigned to
institutional work locations and who are assigned to a work station located within the specified institution, facility, locked ward or unit, or other specifically identified site, as the employee's principal work station, shall receive additional compensation of approximately five percent (5%) above their regular base pay rate for such assignment. This premium shall apply to time worked and shall not apply towards paid time off or to terminal payoff.
Institutional/Principal Work Locations:
! Edgemoor Hospital
! San Diego County Psychiatric Hospital
! Sheriff’s Detention Facilities
Eligible Class:
5050 - Correctional Counselor
5051 - Supervising Correctional Counselor
7085 - Supervising Custodian
Section 14.	Assignment Premiums
The premium compensation set forth in this Section shall apply to time worked and shall not apply towards paid time off or to terminal payoff.
A.	Rural Sanitarian Assignment
An employee in Class 4735 - Environmental Health Sanitarian assigned as Rural Sanitarian shall be paid at a rate approximately ten percent (10%) higher than prescribed for said class. The total number of Rural Sanitarians shall not exceed one at any one time.
B.	Equipment Operators Toxic Sealers
An employee in Liquid Waste Class 7080 - Sanitarian Regional Supervisor shall be paid at a rate of sixty cents (60 cents) higher than prescribed for said class for each hour worked in immediate proximity exposure to toxic sealers.
JT-01
28
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
Trucks carrying the sealing material shall be marked with signs according to appropriate State of California policies.
C.	Audit Division
Accountants employed in the Auditor and Controller Department shall be paid as prescribed below when assigned in accordance with either (1) or (2). These premiums are mutually exclusive and shall not be added together.
1.	An employee in a class listed below shall be paid at a rate of approximately five percent (5%) higher than prescribed for the class when assigned to the Audit Division.
2.	An employee in a class listed below shall be paid at a rate of approximately ten percent (10%) higher than prescribed for the class when assigned to the EDP Audit Unit of the Audit Division.
Eligible Classes:
2405 - Associate Accountant
2425 - Assistant Accountant
2500 - Junior Accountant
2501 - Senior Auditor/Accountant
Section 15.	Certifications/Special Training (5%)
A.	Registered Engineers
1.	Engineers. An employee in Classes 3615 - Assistant Civil Engineer, 3625 -Assistant Structural Engineer, 6003 - Right of Way and Utilities Coordinator or 3695 - Junior Civil Engineer shall be paid at a rate approximately five percent (5%) higher than prescribed for said class upon furnishing satisfactory evidence that he/she possesses a current valid State of California registration as a civil or structural engineer or architect.
2.	Architects. An employee in Classes 3504 - Landscape Architect I, 3505 -
Landscape Architect II, 3591 - Architectural Project Manager I, 3592 -Architectural Project Manager II, 6324 - Park manager and 6325 - Senior Park Project Manager shall be paid at a rate approximately five percent (5%) higher than prescribed for said class upon furnishing satisfactory evidence that he/she possesses a current valid State of California registration as a civil engineer or architect.
JT-01
29
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
3.	Surveyors. An employee in Classes 3779 - Junior Land Surveyor or 3780 -
Assistant Land Surveyor shall be paid at a rate approximately five percent (5%) higher than prescribed for said class upon furnishing satisfactory evidence that he/she possesses a current valid State of California registration as a civil engineer or holds a valid California State Land Surveyor’s License.
B.	Physician and Dental Classes Board Certification Bonuses (10% and 15%)
1.	Board Certification. An employee in Classes 4162 - Consultant in Internal Medicine, 4183 - Neurologist, 4158 - Forensic Pathologist I, 4192 - Senior Physician, 4193 - Physician or 4198 - Psychiatrist shall be paid at a rate approximately ten percent (10%) higher than prescribed for his/her class upon furnishing satisfactory evidence that he/she has earned a valid certificate issued by the American Board in the medical specialty determined by the Director to be especially suited to the position he/she holds. An employee in Class 4170 - Dentist, shall be paid at a rate approximately ten percent (10%) higher than prescribed for his/her class upon furnishing satisfactory evidence that he/she has earned a valid certificate issued by the American Board in the dental specialty determined by the Director to be especially suited to the position he/she holds.
2.	Board Certification and Subspecialty. An employee in Classes 4162 -Consultant in Internal Medicine, 4183 - Neurologist, 4160 - Supervising Pathologist, 4170 - Dentist, 4192 - Senior Physician, 4193 - Physician, 4198 - Psychiatrist I, 4196 - Psychiatrist II and 4199 - Psychiatrist III shall be paid at a rate approximately fifteen percent (15%) higher than prescribed for his/her class upon furnishing satisfactory evidence that he/she has earned a valid certificate issued by the American Board in a medical or dental subspecialty determined by the Director to be especially suited to the position he/she holds.
C.	Registered Environmental Health Specialists (5%)
Effective June 28, 2002, an employee in an eligible class shall be paid at a rate approximately five percent (5.0%) higher than prescribed for his/her class upon furnishing satisfactory evidence that he/she possesses a current valid registration as a Registered Environmental Health Specialist.
Eligible Classes:
4721 - Environmental Health Specialist I 4722 - Environmental Health Specialist II 4723 - Environmental Health Specialist III 4726 - Supervising Environmental Health Specialist
JT-01
30
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
Section 16.	Bilingual Premium
Compensation for Bilingual Ability. Upon assignment to a position which has been determined to require bilingual skills, a qualified employee is entitled to receive bilingual premium. In order to insure an adequate level of bilingual proficiency, the Department of Human Resources may require periodic evaluation of incumbents receiving bilingual premium.
Class A:	The rate for Class A bilingual skill is $40.00 biweekly; $0.50 per hour
for 80 hours of paid service - thereafter, the FLSA regular rate for overtime shall apply. To qualify for this rate, the employee must be assigned to a position designated as requiring bilingual skills 50% or more of the time or 40 hours or more in an 80 hour biweekly pay period or to a position designated as requiring technical bilingual skills (reading, writing, translation). This fifty percent usage requirement shall mean the actual time spent conversing or interpreting in a second language.
Class B:	The rate of Class B bilingual skills is $20.00 biweekly; $0.25 per hour
for 80 hours of paid service - thereafter, the FLSA regular rate for overtime shall apply. To qualify for this rate, the employee must be assigned to a position designated as requiring bilingual skills less than 50% of the time or 39 hours or less in an 80-hour biweekly pay period. This fifty percent or less usage requirement shall mean the actual time spent conversing or interpreting in a second language.
Employees in positions designated as bilingual on or before June 28, 1979, shall continue to receive Class A bilingual premium while in that specific position. Employees assigned to positions June 29, 1979, or after shall receive either Class A or Class B bilingual premium, as appropriate.
For purposes of terminal pay, bilingual premium shall not be computed in the employee’s base wage rate.
Section 17.	Protective Services Supervisor (#5259) Spanish Retention Bilingual Premium
The appointing authority may assign a Protective Services Supervisor to perform Spanish bilingual duties in child protective services positions in the Children’s Services Bureau which have been identified and designated as requiring Spanish bilingual skills. The Health & Human Services Agency will recommend the effective date for Spanish bilingual pay as the date the employee is assigned such duties or passes the Spanish bilingual proficiency test, whichever is later. In order to insure an adequate level of Spanish bilingual proficiency, the Director, Department of Human Resources, may require periodic evaluation of incumbents receiving the premium.
JT-01
31
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
Class A:	The rate for Class A Spanish bilingual skills is $72.00 biweekly; $0.90
per hour for 80 hours of paid service - thereafter, the FLSA regular rate for overtime shall apply. To qualify for this rate, the employee must be assigned to a position designated as requiring Spanish bilingual skills 50% or more of the time or 40 hours or more in an 80-hour biweekly pay period, or to a position designated as requiring technical Spanish bilingual skills (reading, writing and translation). The 50% usage requirement shall mean the actual time spent conversing or interpreting in the Spanish language.
Class B: The rate of Class B Spanish bilingual skills is $40.00 biweekly; $0.50
per hour for 80 hours of paid service - thereafter, the FLSA regular rate for overtime shall apply. To qualify for this rate, the employee must be assigned to a position designated as requiring Spanish bilingual skills less than 50% of the time or 39 or less hours in an 80 hour biweekly pay period. This fifty percent usage requirement shall mean the actual time spent conversing or interpreting in the Spanish language.
Employees in designated classes eligible to receive this premium shall not also be eligible to receive the Bilingual Premium contained in Article 5, Section 16.
For purposes of terminal pay, this Spanish bilingual premium shall not be computed in the employee=s base wage rate.
Section 18.	Master of Social Work (MSW) Degree Premium
An employee in an eligible class shall be paid $50 (Fifty Dollars) biweekly upon furnishing satisfactory evidence that he/she possesses a Master of Social Work (MSW) degree.
Eligible Classes:
5203 - Aging Program Specialist I
5204 - Aging Program Specialist II
5205 - Aging Program Specialist III
5259 - Protective Services Supervisor
Grandfather Provision for Incumbents as of December 12, 1988
Notwithstanding the above, employees employed as of December 12, 1988, as Protective Services Supervisor, Class #5259 or Aging Program Specialist III, Class #5205, will be eligible for the MSW premium herein, provided that the employee possesses either a Master of Counseling Degree based on a two-year program or a Master’s Degree with an M.F.C.C. Protective Services Supervisors or Aging Program Specialist III appointed after
JT-01
32
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
December 12, 1988, must possess an MSW Degree in order to be eligible for the MSW premium.
This premium is paid for paid time off, but not for terminal payoff.
Section 19.	Sheriff’s Dispatcher Training Premium
Eligible employees shall be paid an additional one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour to provide training to newly hired staff in the areas of telephone and radio communications in the Sheriff’s Communication Center. This type of training, which applies only to the Sheriff’s Communication Center, is distinguished from what is considered typical training in that this training requires eligible employees to monitor trainees’ work side-by-side on a telephone or radio console and prepare evaluations to be submitted to the Supervising Sheriff’s Emergency Services Dispatcher in charge of training. This premium shall be paid for time worked only.
Eligible Classes:
2821 - Sheriff’s Communication Dispatcher
2822 - Sheriff’s Emergency Services Dispatcher
Section 20.	Sheriff’s Dispatcher Lead Premium
Eligible employees shall be paid ten percent (10%) of their base pay when assigned as a lead dispatcher responsible for staffing the radio or telephone master console in the Sheriff’s Communications Center. This premium shall be paid for time worked and there shall be only a maximum of five (5) employees assigned as a lead dispatcher at any one time. Furthermore, employees receiving the lead premium shall not be eligible to receive the Sheriff’s Dispatcher Training Premium (Section 19).
Eligible Class:
2822 - Sheriff’s Emergency Services Dispatcher
Section 21.	Sheriff’s Booking Procedures and Jail Clerk Training Premium
A.	Booking Clerks
Eligible employees shall be paid an additional forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour to provide training to newly hired staff in the areas of pre-book, book, pre-release, release and court paper preparation in the Sheriff’s booking facilities. This type of training, which applies only to Sheriff’s Booking Clerks is distinguished from what is considered typical training in that this training requires eligible employees to monitor
JT-01
33
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
trainees’ work side-by-side for review and understanding of all booking procedures and related detention and court process and prepare evaluations to be submitted to the Detention Processing Supervisor in charge of training. This premium shall be paid for time worked only.
B.	Jail Clerks
Eligible employees shall be paid an additional forty-five cents ($0.45) per hour to provide training to newly hired staff in the areas of receipt and disbursement of property, receipt and disbursement of monies, video conferencing and scheduling of visits. This premium shall be paid for time worked only.
C.	Eligible Classes:
3002 - Booking Clerk
3001 - Jail Clerks
Section 22.	Child Support Officer Lead Premium
Eligible employees shall be paid 7.5% of their base pay when assigned as a Lead Child Support Officer responsible for leading a team and providing technical training guidance to other Child Support Officers or Assistance Child Support Officers. This premium shall be paid only for time worked in a lead worker position.
Eligible Class:
2941 - Child Support Officer
Section 23.	Hospital Outstation Assignment Premium
Eligible employees regularly assigned to the Hospital Outstation Program in the Health & Human Services Agency shall be paid $50.00 biweekly. This premium is paid for time off, but not for terminal payoff.
Eligible Class:
5222 - Eligibility Supervisor
Section 24.	Hazardous Incident Response Work - Environmental Health Specialists
Eligible employees who are assigned to perform hazardous incident response work shall be compensated at Step 5 of the rate for Class 4723 - Environmental Health Specialist III, for each hour actually worked performing hazardous incident response duties. To be considered eligible to perform this work, the employee must possess current training and certification in hazardous incident response work.
JT-01
34
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
Eligible Class:
4722 - Environmental Health Specialist II
Section 25.	Forensic Autopsy Lead Worker
Eligible employees shall be paid ten percent (10%) of their base pay when assigned as a Lead Worker in the Medical Examiner=s Office responsible for leading a team in the absence of the Senior Forensic Autopsy Assistant or Autopsy Room Supervisor. This premium shall be paid only for time worked in a lead worker capacity.
Eligible Class:
4820 - Forensic Autopsy Assistant
Section 26.	Master of Library Science (MLS) Premium
An employee in an eligible class shall be paid fifty dollars ($50) biweekly upon furnishing satisfactory evidence that he/she possesses a Master of Library Science (MLS) degree.
Eligible Classes:
4025 - Librarian I
4024 - Librarian II
4023 - Librarian III
This premium is paid for paid time off, but not for terminal payoff.
Section 27.	HIRT Team Differential
Effective June 28, 2002, eligible employees shall be paid ten percent (10%) of their base pay when assigned to the Hazardous Incident Response Team (HIRT). This premium shall be paid on paid time off during the employee’s HIRT assignment but is not applicable to terminal payoff.
Eligible Classes:
4722 - Environmental Health Specialist II
4723 - Environmental Health Specialist III
4726 - Supervising Environmental Health Specialist
Section 28.	Marshal Merger Assignment Premium
Employees who were classified as Class 0630 - Senior Typist in the Office of the Marshal on December 31, 1999 and subsequently merged into the Sheriff’s Department on January 1, 2000 to Class 2730 - Senior Clerk, shall receive a premium of ten percent (10%) in
JT-01
35
ARTICLE 5. HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUMS AND BONUSES (Cont'd)
addition to the employee’s base biweekly wage rate while serving in this assignment. This premium shall apply to paid leave, but shall not apply to terminal payoff.
Section 29.	Juvenile Drug Court Program
Eligible employees within the Department of Probation shall be paid five percent (5%) of their base pay when assigned responsibility for coordinating all substance abuse program and treatment activities regarding juvenile offenders in the Juvenile Drug Court program. This premium shall be paid only for time worked in the above capacity for the Juvenile Drug Court program. This premium shall apply to paid leave but shall not apply to terminal payoff.
Eligible Class:
5198 - Alcohol & Drug Program Specialist III
Section 30.	Sewing Room Supervisor, Special Assignment Premium
Employees in Class 7530 - Sewing Room Supervisor, that are assigned to Las Colinas are responsible for the uniform production, including the supervision of staff, shall be compensated an additional ten percent (10%) in addition to the employee’s base wage rate. This premium shall apply to paid leave, but not to terminal payoff.
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES
Section 1.	Holidays and Holiday Compensation
The County shall observe the following holidays:
1.	Independence Day shall be observed on July 4
2.	Labor Day, First Monday in September
3.	Veterans Day, November 11
4.	Thanksgiving Day, Fourth Thursday in November
5.	Day after Thanksgiving, Fourth Friday in November
6.	Christmas Day, December 25
7.	New Year’s Day, January 1
8.	Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Third Monday in January
9.	President’s Day, Third Monday in February
10.	Cesar Chavez Day, March 31
11.	Memorial Day, Last Monday in May
12.	Floating Holiday, in lieu of Admissions Day
In addition, any other day of national mourning or celebration provided that it has been proclaimed by the Board of Supervisors, and provided that the Board directs the closure of all County offices for public service which are normally closed on holidays. Any such
jt-01	36
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
holiday shall be granted only to those employees who are regularly scheduled to work on the day for which such holiday is proclaimed by the Board.
A.	Floating Holidays - In Lieu of Admissions Day
Employees who have paid service in Payroll 02, shall be entitled to 1/10 the employee’s regularly scheduled biweekly hours, not to exceed eight (8) hours of holiday time. This time may be taken beginning in Payroll 03 at a time agreeable to both the employee and the appointing authority. The eight (8) hours of holiday time is to be used prior to the end of the fiscal year in which it was earned and may be taken in increments of less than eight (8) hours. This day shall not be considered a holiday for payroll purposes.
B.	Birthday Holiday
An employee shall be eligible to receive his/her birthday off as a holiday, which time shall be 1/10th the number of hours in the employee’s regularly scheduled biweekly hours, not to exceed eight (8) hours. A birthday occurring on Saturday shall be taken on the preceding Friday; a birthday occurring on a Sunday shall be taken on the following Monday except that if the needs of the department require that the employee work, the employee, with the approval of the appointing authority, shall have the choice of another day on which to observe the employee’s birthday. If the birthday falls on the employee’s normally scheduled day off, during the employee’s absence on paid leave, or on a holiday, the employee shall receive paid time off equivalent to one-tenth (1/10th) the number of hours in that employee’s regular biweekly pay period, not to exceed eight (8) hours.
C.	Eligibility for Holidays
Only employees paid at a biweekly rate are entitled to paid holidays. Employees who are on paid status the entire work day before as well as the entire work day after a holiday shall receive compensation for eight (8) hours of holiday time, which time shall be considered as hours worked. Permanent part-time employees compensated holiday time shall be equivalent to one-tenth (1/10th) the number of regularly scheduled hours in that employee’s biweekly pay period during which the holiday occurred.
D.	Compensation for Holidays Worked
1.	For working on a holiday, employees working in a class designated to receive cash payment for overtime at one and one-half times their hourly rate, or in a class eligible to receive overtime premium compensation, shall earn, for each hour of the holiday worked, compensatory time off equivalent to the number of hours actually worked but not to exceed 1/10th the number of hours in that employee’s normal biweekly pay period. In addition, such employees shall
JT-01
37
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
receive cash compensation at one-half time rate for the number of hours compensatory time off was earned.
2.	For working on a holiday, those employees in a class not designated pursuant to paragraph (1) shall earn compensatory time off equivalent to the number of hours actually worked but not to exceed 1/10th the number of hours in that employee’s normal biweekly pay period.
E.	Holiday Occurring on a Scheduled Day Off
Except for holidays occurring on a Saturday or Sunday, if a holiday falls on an employee’s regularly scheduled day off, the employee will receive the equivalent of one-tenth (1/10th) the number of regularly scheduled hours in the employee’s biweekly pay period. Sunday holidays will be observed on Monday. Saturday holidays will be observed on Friday.
F.	Holidays for Employees Assigned to the Courts
The purpose of this provision is to achieve consistency in the scheduling of holidays for County employees assigned to work in the courts with those holidays observed by the courts and shall not be construed to provide greater or lesser compensation for, or number of holidays than received each fiscal year by employees assigned to work in other County departments.
1.	Employees assigned to the courts shall receive those specific holidays observed by the courts even if these holidays are not observed by other County offices and departments; and
2.	Employees assigned to the courts shall not receive any holiday observed by County offices and departments which is not also observed by the courts.
3.	Notwithstanding subparagraph F.1, in the event a holiday is observed by the courts that is not also observed by the County, the appointing authority may require County employees to use paid or unpaid leave on the court holiday.
G.	Holiday Compensation - Twenty-Four Hour Operations
Employees regularly assigned to work shifts in 24-hour operations (Article 5, Section (1) C & E) will not receive holiday compensation on the “Friday before” or the “Monday after” the Christmas Day or New Year’s Day holidays when these holidays fall on Saturday or Sunday.
JT-01
38
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
Instead, the employees, who are assigned to work shifts on December 25 and January 1, will receive holiday compensation pursuant to Section (D) (1) and D (2) above on those dates. For employees who do not work on December 25 and January 1 because these holidays fall on the employee’s regularly scheduled day off, these employees shall not be covered by Article 6, Section D, but will receive the equivalent of one-tenth (1/10th) the number of regularly scheduled hours in the employee’s biweekly pay period.
Section 2.	Vacation
Vacation is paid time off earned by eligible employees.
A. Eligibility
To earn vacation credit, or become entitled to take vacation, an employee must be paid at a biweekly rate.
Where the rate of pay of an employee is changed to an hourly, per diem, per clinic, per license issued or any other rate of pay other than a biweekly rate, such employee shall not be entitled to any vacation and shall discontinue earning vacation credit. Such employee shall be paid the monetary value of all his/her unused vacation credit and for any vacation earned but not yet credited to him/her at the time of the change in his/her rate of pay.
An employee’s vacation earned becomes available for use as it is accrued, and may be used in the payroll period following the payroll period in which it was earned. However, no vacation credits shall be eligible for terminal payment until the employee has completed a minimum of one year (twelve (12) months) of continuous paid service in his/her current employment.
B. Earnings
Eligible employees earn vacation credit as follows:
Years of Continuous Service During Present Employment	Vacation Credit For Each Hour of Regularly Scheduled Paid Service	Hour/Day Approx. Equivalent For Full-Time Employees Over One Year (26 Biweekly Pay Periods)
Less than 5 5 to 15 15 or more	Exact decimal equivalents are set forth in Compensation Ordinance Section 4.2.1	80 hrs./10 work days 120 hrs./15 work days 160 hrs./20 work days
JT-01
39
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
The rate of earned vacation shall be changed at the beginning of the pay period following entitlement to such change. Vacation credit is accrued and may be used in tenths of hours.
When an employee is reinstated after layoff or disability retirement, the continuous service date held immediately prior to the layoff or disability shall be used for vacation computation.
Paid holidays immediately preceding, immediately following or wholly within the vacation period shall not be charged as vacation except that when the eligible employee is paid the monetary value of vacation or granted pre-retirement terminal vacation such paid holidays shall be charged as vacation.
C.	Granting Requests, Schedules
The appointing authority determines the time and duration of vacation taken by the employee. Therefore, the advance consent of the appointing authority is required to be obtained by an employee prior to using vacation.
The appointing authority shall endeavor to respond as soon as possible to an employee=s written request for vacation but not later than thirty (30) days from the date the request is submitted.
Vacation schedules shall be arranged with particular regard to the needs of the service, and, so far as possible, with the wishes of the employee.
D.	Maximum Allowable Accumulation
Effective through January 9, 2002:
The balance of an employee’s vacation accumulation on the first day of the seventh payroll period of each fiscal year shall not exceed an amount equal to twice the annualized vacation earnings rate of the employee for the sixth payroll period of said fiscal year.
Employees who have vacation accumulations of more than the allowable levels prior to July 2, 1976, shall continue to earn vacation according to paragraph B. Such employees shall be required to take an amount equal to one year’s earnings plus an equal amount of accumulated vacation each year until the employee’s balance falls below the allowable limit. Each appointing authority shall allow each employee the opportunity to take his/her vacation prior to reaching the employee’s accrual limit or before being reduced to the maximum.
The appointing authority shall provide notice to the employees of the amount of vacation required to be used to conform to the maximum allowable accumulation.
JT-01
40
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
However, if the needs of the service prevent an appointing authority from providing the employee with the opportunity to take the vacation credit required to conform to the maximum allowable, the employee shall retain all accumulated vacation credit. For other good cause or extraordinary circumstances, the CAO may, upon request of the appointing authority, certify the retention of all or a portion of vacation credit for a specified period of time.
No employee earning 7.692% or less of a working hour of vacation credit for each hour of paid service shall be required to take off more than 240 hours (30 days) of vacation time each fiscal year. Employees earning more than 7.692% of a working hour of vacation credit for each hour of paid service shall not be required to take vacation credit of more than 280 hours (35 days) of vacation time each fiscal year.
Effective January 10, 2002:
1.	The balance of an employee’s vacation credits of record (including vacation earned but not credited); hereinafter “accumulation” shall not exceed an amount equal to twice the annualized current vacation earnings rate of the employee. This is the employee’s “Maximum Balance.”
2.	In any payroll period, an employee shall earn vacation equal to the lesser of:
a.	The amount specified in Section “B” above; or
b.	The amount of earnings necessary which, when added to the employee’s existing accumulation, will cause the accumulation to equal the employee’s Maximum Balance.
3.	If, at the end of any payroll period, an employee’s accumulation equals or exceeds the employee’s Maximum Balance, no vacation credits shall be earned by the employee for that payroll period.
4.	Employees whose vacation accumulation exceeds their Maximum Balance on the effective date of this agreement will not have the excess credits removed except through normal usage (including Catastrophic Leave donations) or pay down in accordance with Section 2.E. below, or adjustment required to correct an error.
5.	The County shall notify employees who have reached eighty percent (80%) of their Maximum Balance.
E.	Vacation Credit Paydown
An appointing authority may authorize a portion of an employee’s vacation credits to be converted to a cash payment under the following circumstances:
JT-01
41
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
1.	The employee’s vacation balance has exceeded an amount equal to eighty percent (80%) of his/her Maximum Balance; and
2.	The employee is, or imminently will be, foregoing vacation credit accruals due to reaching the Maximum Balance; and
3.	The employee has used one-half (50%) of his/her authorized annualized vacation accrual for the period inclusive of payroll 07 of the previous fiscal year and payroll 06 of the current fiscal year; and
4.	The employee has requested, and been denied, use of vacation prior to reaching his/her Maximum Balance.
5.	The paydown shall be limited to an amount which will leave a remaining balance of no less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the Maximum Balance.
6.	When an employee is to be paid or credited the monetary value of vacation, such compensation shall be made on the basis of the employee’s basic rate of pay at that time plus those applicable premiums or bonuses which are being paid as part of the employee’s hourly rate at the time of separation exclusive of any biweekly fixed dollar amount premiums and any other premiums specifically identified as excluded from terminal payout.
F.	Extraordinary Work Load Exception
Notwithstanding Section E (3) above, an employee who is assigned to a major project or significant workload for which the project or work related activities extends over twelve (12) continuous months or more and the employee is, or imminently will be, foregoing vacation credit accruals due to reaching the Maximum Balance, may have vacation credits converted to a cash payment as described in Section E above.
G.	Vacation Credits at Separation from County Service
At the time an employee is separated from the County service, the monetary value of all vacation entitlement shall be paid. An employee retiring from County service may be granted a terminal vacation in lieu of being paid its monetary value. An employee on terminal vacation shall not earn any vacation credit.
When an employee is to be paid or credited the monetary value of vacation, such compensation shall be made on the basis of the employee’s basic rate of pay at that time plus those applicable premiums or bonuses which are being paid as part of the employee’s hourly rate at the time of separation exclusive of any biweekly fixed
JT-01
42
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
dollar amount premiums and any other premiums specifically identified as excluded from terminal payout.
Section 3.	Bereavement Leave
Bereavement leave is paid leave which is available to an employee at the time of death or funeral of a member of the employee’s immediate family as defined below.
A.	Eligibility
Only biweekly rate employees on paid status shall be eligible for paid bereavement leave.
B.	Amount of Leave
Bereavement leave shall not exceed three (3) work days for the death of a member of the employee’s immediate family. Also, an employee shall be entitled to use two (2) days of sick leave as bereavement leave.
C.	Immediate Family
Immediate family includes husband, wife, child, stepchild, brother, brother-in-law, stepbrother, sister, sister-in-law, stepsister, grandmother, grandfather, grandchild, parent, stepparent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, or any person serving as a parent, or who has served as a parent, or any other close person living in the same household as the employee.
Section 4.	Sick Leave
Sick leave is paid leave earned and granted to an eligible employee for absences from work caused by personal illness or injury, for emergency or routine medical or dental appointments, and for reasonable travel time to and from health care facilities. An employee who is incapacitated for work because of pregnancy may be granted sick leave upon presentation of satisfactory evidence from a physician verifying the incapacity.
An employee may also be granted up to a maximum of sixty (60) hours of paid sick leave in a twelve (12) month period for the purpose of caring for a member of his/her immediate family (as defined in paragraph C. below) who is ill or injured. In addition, if the employee requests paid sick leave in excess of sixty (60) hours in order to care or arrange care for a member of his/her immediate family who is critically or terminally ill, additional sick leave is available to the employee when granted by the appointing authority upon receipt of satisfactory verification from a physician.
JT-01
43
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
A.	Eligibility
Employees eligible to earn sick leave are those employees who are paid at a biweekly rate, and who have regularly scheduled paid service of not less than one-half of the standard eighty (80) hour pay period.
B.	Earnings
Eligible employees shall earn sick leave credit at the rate of five percent (5%) of the employee’s regularly scheduled hours per pay period. The hour/day approximate equivalent sick leave accrual for full-time employees over one year (26 pay periods) is one hundred four (104) hours, or thirteen (13) days. Sick leave is credited in units of one-tenth (1/10th) of one hour, up to a maximum of four (4) hours, at the beginning of the pay period following the one in which it was earned.
Paid holidays immediately preceding, immediately following, or wholly within the period for which sick leave is granted shall not be regarded as part of such period of sick leave.
C.	Definition of Immediate Family
Immediate family includes husband, wife, child, stepchild, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, parent, stepparent, or any person serving as a parent, or who has served as a parent, or any other person living in the same household as the employee.
D.	Use of Sick Leave
Sick leave is available the first day of the pay period following the pay period in which it was earned, and is taken in units of one-tenth (1/10th) of one hour. Use of sick leave is subject to the approval of the appointing authority. Upon request of an employee, the appointing authority may allow the substitution of three (3) or more days of sick leave for paid vacation, provided the employee furnishes a doctor’s statement or other satisfactory evidence that the employee was ill or injured for three (3) or more consecutive days.
E.	Request for Sick Leave
Each request for sick leave shall set forth the reasons for the request and such further information as may be required. Each request for more than five (5) consecutive work days of sick leave shall be accompanied by a doctor’s verification or other evidence satisfactory to the appointing authority which demonstrates the employee’s incapacity to return to work or necessity to be absent. A request
JT-01
44
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
because of the death of a member of the employee’s immediate family will not require such verification.
Upon request of the appointing authority, an employee shall be required to provide the above-described verification of the proper use of sick leave at any time prior to the expiration of five (5) consecutive work days, if the appointing authority has good cause to require such earlier verification and has so informed the employee.
F.	Compensation for Unused Sick Leave
1.	Employees who enter County service after July 1, 1979, shall not be eligible for compensation for any of their unused sick leave credits.
2.	An employee with ten (10) or more years of continuous service during that employee’s present employment who retires, voluntarily terminates, dies, discontinues earning sick leave credits by reason of that employee changing from being paid at a biweekly rate, is elected to County Office, or is laid off, shall be paid twenty-five percent (25%) of that employee’s accumulated sick leave credits. An employee who received such compensation shall have no right to restoration of any sick leave credit upon return to County service.
3.	Employees who earned County service prior to July 1, 1979, and in accordance with the above provisions, shall be compensated for their unused sick leave credits as determined by the following payout ranges:
$ 11,001	to	$ 12,000
10,001	to	11,000
9,001	to	10,000
8,001	to	9,000
7,001	to	8,000
6,001	to	7,000
-0-	to	6,000
Cash payout for unused sick leave credits shall not exceed the upper limit of the range at which the employee’s unused credits lie as of June 28, 1979.
G. Conversion of Sick Leave Credits to Retirement Service Credit
Upon retirement, deferred retirement, disability retirement from County service, or death, an eligible employee’s sick leave balance may be converted into retirement service credits subject to the rules and regulations of the San Diego County Retirement Association, provided that:
a.	The employee has completed ten (10) or more years of continuous service during that employee’s present employment; and
JT-01
45
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
b.	The employee’s sick leave balance totals three hundred (300) hours or more; and therefore,
c.	Employees with ten (10) or more years of service may convert one hundred percent (100%) of their total sick leave credits.
H.	Employee’s Options
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection “G” of this Article, employees eligible under subsection “F” may elect to:
a.	Receive their full cash payment under subsection “F” and then convert their remaining eligible hours under subsection “G”.
b.	Waive receiving full cash payment under subsection “F” and convert their eligible hours under subsection “G”.
I.	Calculation of Compensation for Unused Sick Leave
When an employee is paid the monetary value of sick leave as provided above, such compensation shall be calculated on the employee’s basic rate of pay at that time plus those applicable premiums or bonuses which are being paid as part of the employee’s hourly rate at the time of separation exclusive of any biweekly fixed dollar amount premiums and any other premiums specifically identified as excluded from terminal payout. Such calculation shall not include any increase in pay which would have occurred had the sick leave been granted, nor shall it include payment for any holidays.
J.	Cancellation and Restoration of Sick Leave Credits
1.	An employee’s sick leave credits shall be canceled, subject to 2. below, upon separation from County Classified Service, or upon changing from a biweekly rate of pay.
2.	Employee sick leave credits accrued at time of separation, and which have not been subject to payout, shall be restored under the following conditions:
a.	An employee returns to duty within three (3) years after separation because of layoff or disability retirement; or
b.	An employee returns to duty within twelve (12) months following separation from temporary or seasonal employment; or
JT-01
46
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
c.	To the extent that recovery is made by the County either through Workers’ Compensation Act benefits or claim against a responsible third party, of compensation, including any salary, vacation, sick leave and retirement credits paid an employee during absence on sick leave. Restored credits shall be computed on the basis of the employee’s wage rate granted as sick leave during the time of absence. Credits shall be restored in full hour units with fractions of an hour disregarded.
Section 5.	Injury Leave
Injury leave is paid leave granted to a biweekly employee while disabled and unable to perform his or her job duties because of a job-related injury, entitled to Workers’ Compensation temporary total disability benefits, and is not ineligible under one or more conditions listed in Section 5. A. herein. Injury leave compensation shall equal the difference between 75% of employee’s wage rate and employee’s Workers’ Compensation temporary total disability indemnity. The appointing authority shall provide release time to allow an employee to attend follow-up medical appointments for accepted work related injuries.
A.	Ineligibility
An employee shall not be entitled to injury leave under the following conditions:
1.	Failure to use or wear prescribed safety or personal protective equipment;
2.	Failure to follow safety rules and regulations;
3.	Where the employee’s gross negligence or willful misconduct is a proximate
cause of the injury;
4.	Any time the appointing authority, upon investigation, certifies that suitable light-duty employment is available, and employee refused to accept it.
5.	Injury leave shall not be granted for aggravation, recurrence or sequelae of a pre-existing non-service connected physical disability or any physical condition existing prior to employment by the County, nor for recurrences, aggravation or sequelae of disabilities for which employee has received a permanent disability award or a compromise and release settlement under Workers’ Compensation. To the extent employee is otherwise eligible, sick leave may be granted.
B.	Definitions
1.	Director: Means Director of the Department of Human Resources.
JT-01
47
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
2.	Risk Management Division: Means the Division within the Department of Human Resources which administers the provision of workers’ compensation benefits as mandated by the State of California.
3.	Safety Rules and Regulations: Means any and all County or Departmental rules, policies, and procedures, and California Occupational Safety and Health Act (CAL-OSHA) regulations, which relate to prevention of injury in the County work environment.
4.	Wage Rate: Means the eligible employee’s biweekly rate of pay, plus those specific premiums and/or bonuses which are paid on paid leave. Overtime, and any compensation identified as paid for time worked only and not applicable on paid leave, are excluded.
5.	Workers’ Compensation: Means benefits provided pursuant to Division IV of the California Labor Code.
6.	Treating Physician: Means any physician listed in Labor Code Section 3209.3 who is authorized by the County and is currently treating the employee for the job-related injury which forms the basis for injury leave eligibility.
7.	Light Duty: Any restriction of hours worked and/or duties performed as a result of a job-related injury where such hours and/or duties are different than the employee’s established work schedule and/or regular assigned duties prior to the injury.
C.	Request
Each request for injury leave shall be submitted to the employee’s appointing authority within 48 hours after medical treatment is obtained or as soon as practicable thereafter on the form prescribed by the Director, accompanied by verification of the treating physician authorized by the County. It shall set forth the reasons for the request and any further information as may be required by the Director.
D.	Investigation
1.	The appointing authority shall make such investigation as is necessary to determine whether or not facts exist which support the request. Upon concluding the investigation, the appointing authority shall provide a summary of the findings to the Department of Human Resources, Risk Management Division.
JT-01
48
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
2.	The Director shall review the findings of the appointing authority and make any further investigation as is appropriate.
3.	The Director may grant the request in whole or in part and determine the duration of the injury leave, or may deny the request. The Director shall notify the employee and the appointing authority of the decision in writing.
E.	Appeal
The Director’s decision shall be final unless appealed by the employee. Within ten (10) County business days of postmark or confirmed delivery of the Director’s decision, the employee may appeal the decision by requesting arbitration. Written notice requesting arbitration must be presented to the Risk Management Division of the Department of Human Resources within the ten (10) days specified herein. The request for arbitration shall specify the basis for the appeal.
Selection of Arbitrator. The Risk Management Division will maintain a list of qualified neutral arbitrators from the Superior Court Arbitrator Personal Injury Panel. The arbitrator shall be determined by the parties alternately striking names from the Superior Court Injury Panel until only one remains. These arbitrators shall have workers’ compensation experience.
Authority of the Arbitrator. The arbitrator shall hear the appeal and determine whether or not injury leave should be granted and, if so, its duration by applying only this Injury Leave provision. However, the arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, delete from, or modify this Injury Leave provision. The arbitrator shall submit findings and a decision in writing. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final.
Each party to the appeal before an arbitrator shall bear his/her own expenses in connection therewith. All fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne one-half by the County and one-half by the appellant. However, during the term of this agreement, the appellant’s share shall not exceed $150 per hearing.
F.	Duration of Injury Leave
1.	No injury leave may be granted during the first three (3) full calendar days after the employee leaves work as a result of the injury, except where the injury causes disability of more than fourteen (14) full calendar days or necessitates hospitalization within the three calendar day waiting period. In such cases, injury leave may commence the first day the injured employee leaves work or is hospitalized as a result of the injury.
2.	The duration of injury leave shall be that determined by the Director, after an investigation. An injury shall be deemed to continue through a recurrence,
JT-01
49
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
aggravation, or sequelae of the initial injury for which the leave may be granted. Injury leave shall not total more than one thousand four hundred and forty (1,440) aggregate hours for the particular injury.
3.	If, subsequent to the granting of injury leave for a period of less than one-thousand four hundred and forty (1,440) aggregate hours, it appears that leave should be granted for an additional period of time, the employee may request additional injury leave. This request shall be submitted and determined in the same manner as an original request for injury leave, provided that the total duration of the original and additional injury leave shall not exceed one-thousand four hundred and forty (1,440) aggregate hours for the particular injury.
4.	In no event shall any injury leave exceed a total one-thousand four hundred and forty (1,440) aggregate hours, extend beyond five years from the date of the initial injury, nor extend beyond the period in which the employee is employed.
G.	Holidays Falling During Injury Leave
A holiday falling during the period of injury leave shall be charged as injury leave and not paid as a holiday.
H.	Absence Pending Injury Leave
When a claim for workers’ compensation benefits and/or a final determination of entitlement to injury leave is pending, an employee may take paid leave or compensatory time off. If the employee becomes eligible for injury leave, it shall commence on the date determined by the Director after an investigation. Any sick leave, compensatory time, or other paid leave used in lieu of injury leave after such date of commencement, shall be restored to the employee’s balance(s), except that if the difference between the paid leave used and the injury leave for the same time period requires that employee reimburse County, the difference shall be deducted from the balances restored, to the extent available.
I.	Workers’ Compensation and Leave
1.	An employee shall not, through a combination of temporary disability indemnity payments and paid sick leave, injury leave or paid leave pursuant to Section 4850 of the Labor Code, receive payment in excess of his or her wage rate. The amount paid for such leaves shall be decreased by the amount of any temporary disability for the same period to which the employee is or may be entitled under Workers’ Compensation.
JT-01
50
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
2.	If an employee has received his or her wage rate as paid sick leave, and temporary disability back payments covering the same period are made to the employee, then the employee shall be liable to the County for the amount that the combination of such back payments and sick leave exceeds the employee’s wage rate. The County may deduct from any future payments it makes to such employee an amount equal to the total of such excess payment. Insofar as practical, such deduction shall be done by a method that will not cause undue hardship to the employee. To the extent that such deductions represent compensation for sick leave used, the employee’s sick leave balance shall be restored.
3.	Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to affect the employee’s entitlement to medical, surgical and hospital treatment or temporary disability indemnity benefits under Workers’ Compensation.
J.	Light Duty
Where the injured employee’s treating physician authorized by the County recommends light-duty assignment, it will be the responsibility of the appointing authority to arrange suitable light duty. Department of Human Resources may provide staff technical assistance to find a suitable light-duty assignment, one which accommodates the particular restrictions provided by the treating physician.
Section 6.	Court Leave (Jury Duty)
Court leave is paid leave granted by the County to an eligible employee to enable that employee to fulfill his/her duty as a citizen to serve as a juror, or as a prospective juror, or to serve as a witness in a court action to which the employee is not a party, before a Federal, Superior, Justice or Municipal Court located within San Diego County or within the employee’s county of residence.
A.	Eligibility
Only a biweekly employee who has received an order from a court is eligible for court leave. Court leave is not granted when the employee is paid an expert witness fee or when attendance is part of the employee’s official County duties.
B.	Court Leave Shall be Limited to:
1.	Required attendance before Federal, Superior, Municipal, and Justice Courts
located within San Diego County or within the employee’s county of residence.
JT-01
51
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
2.	Time in attendance at court together with reasonable time between court and work if attendance is for less than a full day and the employee can reasonably be expected to return to work.
Section 7.	Educational Leave
Release Time for Educational Purposes
An employee may receive paid educational release time, including transportation time, to attend courses, seminars, workshops or conventions that enhance, improve or add to the knowledge, skills and performance in the employee’s County employment.
The determination as to when and whether an employee is granted this time off shall be made by the employee’s appointing authority; however, such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Request for such time off will be submitted in the manner prescribed by the employee’s appointing authority.
The Health and Human Services Agency agrees to provide a copy of the Agency’s Policy and Procedure Manual Policy No. C-5, “Training Policy and Procedures”, dated October 3, 1983, to all current and new employees of the Department. Attached to the Policy will be a memo indicating the name and phone number of the designee of the Director who coordinates requests for educational leave. Employees who are refused educational leave or who have questions regarding same may contact this designee.
A.	The County shall, within the first year after hiring new Medical Examiner Investigator, arrange work schedules to allow them to attend Peace Officers Standards and Training Course. This training shall be accomplished during the scheduled work week of each Medical Examiner Investigator.
B.	An employee in a class included in the Professional Unit may receive a minimum of 2 calendar days each year to attend conferences and other educational activities which will be beneficial to the employee and the County. The determination as to when and whether an employee receives this leave will be made by the appointing authority. There shall be no accumulation of this time. For payroll purposes, this time will be counted as time worked.
C.	The Health & Human Services Agency agrees not to change its current administrative policy related to educational release time and professional leave.
Section 8.	Military Leave
A.	General Provisions
Any employee who is or becomes a member of the Armed Services, Militia or Organized Reserves of California or the United States shall be entitled to the leaves
JT-01
52
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
of absence and employment rights and privileges provided by the Military and Veterans Code of the State of California.
B.	Review and Approval
Every military leave shall be subject to review and approval by the Director, Department of Human Resources.
C.	Request for Military Leave
Every request for military leave shall set forth information as the Director, Department of Human Resources, requires and shall be accompanied by a copy of the official orders or other official documentation satisfactory to the Director which confirms the employee was required to engage in military service and did perform such service.
Section 9.	Administrative Leave
A.	Definition
Administrative leave means the employee’s non-disciplinary paid absence from duty imposed by the appointing authority under specified conditions.
B.	Eligibility
Bi-weekly rate employees shall be eligible to receive administrative leave.
C.	Conditions
The appointing authority may direct an eligible employee to take administrative leave only if there is the occurrence, or the likelihood for the occurrence of, emergency or extraordinary circumstances which satisfy either one or both of the following two conditions:
1.	The immediate removal of the employee from the County work site is essential to avert harm to the County (including unauthorized destruction or removal of any property or records of the County), the public, other County employees, or the employee himself or herself, and that such circumstances are sufficiently unclear to make a final determination without an investigation of whether the employee contributed or may contribute to such harm.
JT-01
53
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
2.	The removal of employee from the County work site is essential to insure the conduct of a full, fair and complete investigation of such emergency or extraordinary circumstances.
D.	Ineligibility
Notwithstanding subparagraph (B) and (C) above, the employee shall not be eligible to be placed on administrative leave if:
1.	The appointing authority is able to avert the occurrence of the circumstances specified under subparagraph (C) (1) or (C) (2) above, by reassigning the employee to other duties or to a different work site within the department; or
2.	The employee agrees to take accumulated paid leave time off at the request of the appointing authority; or
3.	The emergency or extraordinary circumstances, referenced under subparagraph (C) above, are sufficiently clear to indicate that the employee’s conduct has caused such circumstances and that such conduct constitutes grounds for immediate suspension or termination pursuant to Rule VII of the County of San Diego Civil Service Rules.
E.	Procedures
1.	The appointing authority shall provide the employee written notice of the administrative leave, its effective date and duration, and the reasons for placing the employee on such leave. A copy of this notice shall be sent to the Director and the Payroll Division of the Auditor and Controller.
2.	The appointing authority shall commence an investigation of the emergency or extraordinary circumstances not later than one working day following the date of the written notice of administrative leave to the employee. The appointing authority may commence such investigation prior to the date of the written notice.
3.	If prior to the end of the administrative leave period (as specified in the written notice to the employee), the appointing authority determines that the employee’s absence is no longer essential, the appointing authority shall notify the employee that administrative leave is no longer authorized effective the next working day and direct the employee to return to duty on such date. Such notice may be oral, but must be memorialized in the form of written notice which shall be provided to the employee. A copy of this notice shall be sent to the Director and the Payroll Division of the Auditor and Controller.
F.	Duration
JT-01
54
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
1.	Administrative leave may be authorized for up to ten (10) working days for each separate and distinct set of emergency or extraordinary circumstances as set forth under subsection (C) above. Administrative leave may be extended for up to an additional twenty (20) working days if more time is needed to complete the investigation, subject to the approval of the Director. When leave is extended for an additional twenty (20) working days, the Skelly hearing shall be conducted prior to the expiration of the leave except in cases of criminal investigations. In cases of criminal investigations by law enforcement agencies or pending Skelly hearings, further leave may be extended upon approval of the Director. The employee shall be notified of any extension of the administrative leave. Such notice may be oral, but must be memorialized in the form of written notice which shall be provided to the employee prior to the end of the extension of the administrative leave. A copy of this notice shall be sent to the Director and the Payroll Division of the Auditor and Controller.
2.	The duration of administrative leave, including any extension thereof, shall not continue beyond the day the appointing authority determines, based upon the investigation of the facts and circumstances, that the employee’s absence from the County work site is no longer essential.
3.	At the end of the ten (10) day period of authorized administrative leave, or thirty (30) day period if extended, the employee shall return to duty, unless:
a.	Other forms of authorized leave are approved by the appointing authority; or
b.	A final order of suspension or termination against the employee has been implemented.
Section 10.	Catastrophic Leave Program
Leave credits, as defined below, may be transferred from one or more employees to another employee, on an hour-for-hour basis, in accordance with departmental policies upon the request of both the receiving employee and the transferring employee and upon approval of the employee’s appointing authority, under the following conditions:
A.	The receiving employee is required to be absent from work due to injury or the prolonged illness of the employee, employee’s spouse, parent, or child, has exhausted all earned leave credits, including but not limited to sick leave, compensatory time, holiday credits and disability leave and is therefore facing financial hardship.
B.	The transfers must be a minimum of four (4) hours per transaction and in whole hour increments thereafter.
JT-01
55
ARTICLE 6. PAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
C.	Transfers shall be allowed to cross departmental lines in accordance with policies of the receiving department.
D.	The total maximum leave credits received by an employee shall normally not exceed five hundred and twenty (520) hours; however, if approved by his/her appointing authority, the total leave credits may be up to one thousand and forty (1,040) hours. Total leave credits in excess of one thousand and forty (1,040) hours will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the appointing authority subject to the approval of the Chief Administrative Officer.
E.	The transfers are irrevocable, and will be indistinguishable from other leave credits belonging to the receiving employee. Transfers will be subject to all taxes required by law.
F.	Leave credits that may be transferred under this program are defined as the transferring employee’s vacation credits or up to twenty-four (24) hours of sick leave per fiscal year.
G.	Transfers shall be administered according to the rules and regulations of the Auditor and Controller, and made on a form prescribed by the Auditor and Controller. Approvals of the receiving and donating employee, the donating employee’s appointing authority, and the receiving employee’s appointing authority (in the case of interdepartmental transfer) will be provided for on such form.
H.	Eligibility to be a receiving employee in this program is not subject to the Grievance Procedure of this Agreement.
Section 11.	Appeal of Disputes: Paid Leaves
Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this Article, any disputes which arise concerning the application or interpretation of the paid leave provisions of this Agreement shall have recourse to the Grievance Procedure herein and shall not be appealable to the Civil Service Commission.
ARTICLE 7.	UNPAID LEAVES
Section 1.	Leave of Absence Without Pay
A permanent employee may be granted unpaid leave either with the right to return or without the right to return. Exception: No paid leave of any kind will be granted an employee who is on suspension as discipline.
JT-01
56
ARTICLE 7. UNPAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
A.	Leave Without Pay with Right to Return
If leave without pay with right to return is granted, after such leave the employee shall be entitled to return to the same class in the same department as was occupied at the commencement of the leave.
At the discretion of the appointing authority, an employee may be granted:
1.	Leave without pay for a maximum of sixty (60) work days.
2.	Leave without pay to accept a temporary appointment (includes provisional
appointments) to a classified or unclassified position in a County department. Such leaves shall be for a maximum of twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods.
An employee granted leave without pay pursuant to this provision if not offered an opportunity to return to the same class of position in the same department at the expiration of such leave, shall be provided additional leave until a position in his/her class and department is made available to him/her, provided that such employee shall have a right to the first vacancy in his/her class and department which occurs during such additional leave, and provided further that such additional leave shall not exceed twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods.
3.	Leave without pay when certified by a medical doctor to be unable to perform the duties of the employee=s position. Such leave shall be for the duration of the disability but not to exceed one year. However, if an employee is unable to return to work at the end of one year, the employee shall be placed on leave without pay without right to return for a maximum of one year, as provided in “B” below.
At the discretion of the appointing authority, and approval of the Director, Department of Human Resources, an employee may be granted:
4.	Leave without pay for good cause, other than illness, up to twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods. Good cause includes leave requested for union activity. Such leaves may be extended a maximum of twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods by the Director if circumstances warrant.
B.	Leave Without Pay Without Right of Return
If leave without pay without right of return is granted, after such leave, the employee shall have no entitlement to return to the same class in the same department as he/she occupied at the commencement of the leave.
JT-01
57
ARTICLE 7. UNPAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
The Director, Department of Human Resources, may, with proper justification, grant a leave without pay without right to return for a maximum of twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods.
An employee granted leave without pay pursuant to this provision, if not offered an opportunity to return to the same class of position in the same department at the expiration of such leave, shall be provided additional leave until a position in his/her class and department is made available to him/her, and provided further that such additional leave shall not exceed twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods. Any employee who is not returned to County employment at the expiration of the initial leave without pay and who is not returned to County employment within the next succeeding twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods shall be deemed to be absent without leave.
C.	Leave Without Pay - Staff to Elected Official
The Director, Department of Human Resources, may grant a leave without pay to a classified employee for an indefinite period of time to accept an unclassified position as staff to an elected official. This leave may be either with or without the right of return.
D.	Cancellation of Leave Without Pay
If an employee violates the conditions upon which leave without pay is granted, the Director, Department of Human Resources, may cancel said leave. In such instances, the employee may be deemed to be absent without leave on the date designated by the Director.
E.	Denial of Leave
Any question arising out of the denial of leave without pay shall be decided by the Director, Department of Human Resources.
Section 2.	Voluntary Furlough
A.	Short Term
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article, the appointing authority, on approval of the Chief Administrative Officer, for good cause may grant a permanent or probationary employee a voluntary leave of absence without pay with right of return to the same position subject to the following conditions:
1.	Leave must be taken in increments of one full regular workday for the eligible
employee (e.g., 8, 9, 10, or 12 hours).
JT-01
58
ARTICLE 7. UNPAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
2.	Such leave shall be available only during a period or periods of time designated by the Board of Supervisors as times of economic hardship.
3.	The amount of leave time taken during the period authorized by the Board of Supervisors shall not exceed the total number of hours in one regular pay period for the eligible employee.
4.	Credits toward paid leave and holiday eligibility shall accrue as though the employee were on paid status.
5.	Time on this special unpaid leave shall apply toward time in service for completion of probation and toward seniority for purposes of layoff.
6.	Such leave is available only to employees who are on paid status the entire day before as well as the entire day after the work furlough days.
7.	Employees on other leave without pay shall not be eligible for work furlough.
B.	Long Term
Upon determination by the appointing authority that work force reductions may be necessary in the department, the appointing authority, with the approval of the Director, Department of Human Resources, may grant a corresponding number of permanent employees leave without pay with right of return to the same class in the same Service/division in the department in which the leave was granted for up to twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods subject to the following conditions:
1.	In the event that there is no vacancy upon expiration of the leave, the employee may displace an employee in the same class who has fewer layoff points. In the event that there is no vacancy, and no employee in the same class with fewer layoff rating points, an additional leave of up to twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods shall be granted during which the employee, if still physically fit, may fill the first vacancy which occurs in the same class.
2.	The employee who is granted this type of leave shall continue to accrue seniority for purposes of calculating layoff rating points in the same manner as if on paid leave.
3.	It is understood that employees granted this type of leave will not be eligible for unemployment compensation benefits while on leave.
4.	It is understood that employees granted this type of leave will not accrue sick leave or vacation credits while on leave.
JT-01
59
ARTICLE 7. UNPAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
5.	It is understood that the County=s share of health insurance premiums for the
employee will not be paid during this type of leave, but that the employee may continue such coverage at his/her own expense.
Section 3.	Family Medical Leave
A.	Definition
Family Medical Leave is unpaid time off which may be granted to an eligible employee for certain qualifying events. Family Medical Leave shall be in accordance with the federal Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (“FMLA”), Public Law 103-3, 107 Stat. 6 (29 USC 2601 et seq.) as well as California Family Rights Act of 1991 (“CFRA”) pursuant to Govt. Code Section 12945.2, administrative regulations promulgated by the California Fair Employment and Housing Commission, subject to the conditions set forth below under this Article.
B.	Eligibility
Family Medical Leave shall apply to all biweekly rate employees who have been employed by the County for at least 12 months and for at least 1,250 hours of service during the 12 month period immediately preceding the commencement of the leave and who meet all the eligibility requirements of the FMLA or the CFRA.
C.	Conditions
1.	The employee shall give notice to the appointing authority of the need for FML by completing the required forms.
2.	The requested leave will be counted against the employee’s annual FMLA and California Family Rights Act (“CFRA”) entitlement as well. This notice shall refer to the leave as “FML”.
3.	If an employee is requesting leave for more than three days due to their own serious health condition or a serious health condition of a family member, they must provide medical certification on the form entitled “Certification of Health Care Provider” (Form DHR EB-20). If an employee does not submit a medical certification, FML may not be granted. Under certain circumstances, recertification of the serious health condition may be required.
4.	The employee is required by the County of San Diego to substitute accrued vacation or other applicable paid leave in lieu of FML unpaid leave if the employee is eligible for the paid leave according to the County’s paid leave
JT-01
60
ARTICLE 7. UNPAID LEAVES (Cont'd)
provisions. Such paid leave usage will be counted against the employee’s FML duration entitlement.
5.	The County will continue to make its regular contributions towards insurance premiums for up to 12 weeks of FML in order to maintain insurance benefits. The employee will be required to continue to pay their share of their regular insurance premium payments during FML. During FML unpaid leave, these payments must be made by check or money order to the County’s Employee Benefits Division twice-monthly. Premium payments may be made in advance or the County will recover these payments from the employee upon their return to work.
6.	The employee will be required to provide a fitness-for-duty certification before returning to work, unless the appointing authority determines that the certification is not necessary as more fully set forth in County Compensation Ordinance Section 4.3.12.
7.	Following FML leave, the employee is entitled to return to the same or an equivalent job upon return from leave. However, should the employee exhaust their FML leave and continue on some other form of County unpaid leave, they may not be entitled to return to their previous position.
8.	The employee may be liable for the payment of health insurance premiums paid by the County during their FML leave if the employee does not return to work for at least 30 days after taking FML leave as more fully set forth in County Compensation Ordinance Section 4.3.12.
Section 4.	Appeal of Disputes: Unpaid Leaves
Any disputes which arise concerning the application or interpretation of unpaid leave provisions of this Agreement shall have recourse to the Grievance Procedure herein and shall not be appealable to the Civil Service Commission.
ARTICLE 8.	ALLOWANCES FOR WORK-RELATED EXPENDITURES
Section 1.	License Reimbursement
The County shall reimburse any permanent employee, who works at least 80 hours per biweekly period, for the cost of renewing any license or certificate the employee is required to possess as a condition of employment by the County, which the employee is required to renew during the term of this Agreement.
JT-01
61
ARTICLE 8. ALLOWANCES FOR WORK-RELATED EXPENDITURES (Cont=d)
This reimbursement shall not cover any costs to the employee of becoming eligible for, or initially obtaining, such license. Reimbursement shall also not apply to any license necessary for the legal operation of vehicles or mechanical equipment.
Section 2.	Uniforms, Work Clothes, Work Equipment and Articles
A.	The County agrees to supply all protective clothing, protective equipment and protective supplies determined by management to be necessary for the employee to perform his/her job.
This Section is not designed to reduce or increase any current benefits as to issuance of uniforms and work clothes or other work equipment now supplied by the County.
Upon request, management agrees to discuss with the Union, specific clothing needs where such tasks may result in unforeseen damage to clothing which is normal business attire for the classification. Unresolved issues may be submitted by the Union to the Joint Employee Safety Committee and, if still unresolved, submitted to the grievance procedure.
B.	The Medical Examiner Investigators work with a dress code that is necessary in the performance of their duties. Also, Medical Examiner Investigators, at times, in the line of duty, are required to enter industrial areas, hike into remote country in snow and rain to enter fire damaged buildings. Therefore, the County agrees to provide each Medical Examiner Investigator with the following items:
1.	a	hard hat
2.	a	jumpsuit coverall
3.	a	pair of boots
Also, an	adequate supply of rain suits and heavy jackets will be maintained for the
common use of Medical Examiner Investigators, to provide protection to Medical Examiner Investigators and their clothing. The specifications for said items shall be determined by the appointing authority.
C.	Initial Issue
Eligible employees in the classifications listed under subsection “D. Uniform Allowance” of this section, when hired or newly assigned to a position requiring them to wear a uniform, shall receive, within thirty (30) days of hire or assignment, an initial allowance toward the purchase of required uniforms in the amount as provided in subsection “D” below.
D.	Uniform Allowance
JT-01
62
ARTICLE 8. ALLOWANCES FOR WORK-RELATED EXPENDITURES (Cont=d)
For maintaining and/or replacing required uniforms and equipment, the County shall, on the payday for Payroll Number 05 of each year, pay a uniform maintenance allowance to employees who are in any eligible class in Payroll Number 04 of that year.
Exception: Employees who are furnished uniforms at no cost shall not be covered by this uniform allowance provision.
The amount of the allowance shall be computed based on paid service as follows:
% of Required Service in Paid Status	Allowance
Over 75% thru 100%
Over 50% thru 75%
Over 25% thru 50% 25% and less
Three-thirds	(3/3)
Two-thirds	(2/3)
One-third	(1/3)
Zero	(-0-)
For purposes of computing the correct payment amount, three-thirds (3/3) of the uniform allowance is as follows for the listed eligible classes:
Three Thirds
Class No.	Title	(3/3)
5422	Horticulturist............................ $	350
5700	Animal Care Attendant...................... 550
5701	Senior Animal Care Attendant.........	550
5703	Animal Control Officer..................... 550
5707	Animal Control Officer Trainee.......	550
5710	Registered Veterinary Technician .......... 550
5711	Supervising Animal Control Officer ..	550
5748	Community Services Officer................. 550
5782	Field Service Officer...................... 472
6019	Road Crew Supervisor....................... 300
6332	Park Ranger................................ 450
6342	Senior Park Ranger......................... 450
6343	Supervising Park Ranger.................... 450
6410	Senior Cook ............................... 300
6411	Cook....................................... 300
6415	Food Services Worker....................... 300
E. Hard-Toe Shoes
Employees in the following classes shall be reimbursed one hundred dollars ($100) upon proof of purchase of departmental approved hard-toe shoes. If hard-toe shoes are deemed appropriate by the department for employees in other classes, these
JT-01
63
ARTICLE 8. ALLOWANCES FOR WORK-RELATED EXPENDITURES (Cont=d)
employees shall also be reimbursed. Employees may accrue up to three (3) years= worth of reimbursement for the purchase of safety footwear. Employees who do not spend one hundred dollars ($100) in the previous fiscal year shall have up to two hundred dollars ($200) available in the second year. Employees who do not spend one hundred dollars ($100) in each of the two (2) previous fiscal years shall have up to three hundred dollars ($300) available in the third (3rd) year. Maintenance after purchase and reimbursement will be the responsibility of the employee. A portion of the reimbursement allowance can also be used for shoe repair.
2651 - Warehouse Materiel Handler
2660 - Storekeeper I
2664 - Pharmacy Stock Clerk (Jail)
2665 - Materiel Storekeeper I
2666 - Materiel Storekeeper II
2667 - Materiel Storekeeper III
2668 - Supervising Materiel Storekeeper
2713 - Sheriff’s Property and Evidence Clerks
5785 - Sheriff’s Property Investigators
5786 - Sheriff’s Property and Evidence Manager
5793 - Sheriff’s Property and Evidence Custodian
6019 - Road Crew Supervisor II
6020 - Road Crew Supervisor I
7068 - Sewage Treatment Supervisor
F.	All employees in the Food Services Unit: Aprons, and head coverings to be provided.
G.	Back Belts
If back belts are deemed appropriate by the Department, employees approved for such belts shall be reimbursed up to $50 upon proof of purchase of departmental approved back belts. The department may also provide a back belt for an employee if deemed appropriate, in lieu of reimbursement.
H.	Uniforms - Gardeners (MM Unit)
The County shall provide and maintain eleven (11) sets of uniforms and one (1) jacket for Class 6310 - Gardener Supervisor I and Class 6305 - Gardener Supervisor II.
Section 3.	Private Mileage and Use of County Cars
A.	Private Mileage
JT-01
64
ARTICLE 8. ALLOWANCES FOR WORK-RELATED EXPENDITURES (Cont=d)
1.	Certification: Certification determines whether an employee is eligible to drive on County business or not. The Department Head may authorize an eligible employee either to receive reimbursement at the rate in (3) below for miles driven on County business in the employee’s private vehicle; to drive a County car on County business; or to use a County pool car on County business. Recertification confirms whether an employee is eligible to drive on County business or not.
2.	Rationing: In the event a gasoline rationing/allotment program is mandated, the County will not require an employee to use his or her personal allocation for County business.
3.	Rate of Reimbursement: Employees who use their personal vehicles for County business shall be reimbursed on a monthly basis at the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) reimbursement rate for mileage. In the event the IRS increases the reimbursement rate for mileage, the County will adjust the mileage reimbursement rate to equal the new IRS rate as soon as practical, not to exceed sixty (60) days from the effective date of the IRS increase.
4.	Reimbursement to County for Use of County Vehicle: This provision reinforces County policy that a County vehicle shall not be used for personal business.
An employee who uses a County vehicle for transportation from his/her home to the employee’s headquarters or to his/her home from the employee’s headquarters shall reimburse the County at the rate per mile as established in subsection 3. above, for the use of County vehicle.
Such reimbursement shall be:
a.	Calculated by multiplying the number of round-trip miles between the employee’s headquarters and home by the rate in 3. above multiplied by the number of days the employee worked in a pay period.
b.	Deducted from the employee’s biweekly warrant, and
c.	Waived only upon written authorization from the Chief Administrative Officer.
The administration of this provision shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the Auditor and Controller.
JT-01
65
ARTICLE 8. ALLOWANCES FOR WORK-RELATED EXPENDITURES (Cont=d)
B.	Use of County Cars
1.	Certification: See Section 3, subsection A (1).
2.	The County may require an employee to use a County vehicle when the
employee drives on County business.
C.	Changes
In reassigning an employee from a private vehicle to a County vehicle or vice versa, the County will consider the needs of the employee as well as the efficiency and economy of County operations, including consideration of those positions with high mileage.
D.	Medical Examiner Investigators (Classes 5740 and 5741)
Each Medical Examiner Investigator shall be provided an automobile by the County for use during normal working hours and during standby shifts. No Medical Examiner Investigator assigned to a standby shift which shall end before the beginning of his/her normal working hours shall be required to return such automobile to the County until the beginning of his/her next normal working hours, provided that such Medical Examiner Investigator shall make no use of such automobile for his/her personal business or pleasure outside of his/her assigned standby shift.
Medical Examiner Investigator shall be given the option of using his/her automobile when called back to service to travel to the Medical Examiner’s office to pick up a County vehicle before responding to the scene of a death for which he/she shall be paid mileage.
E.	Environmental Health Specialists formerly classified as Sanitarian, Assistant Sanitarian or Senior Sanitarian
Whenever an employee who is employed as an Environmental Health Specialist II (Class #4722), Environmental Health Specialist III (Class #4723) and who was employed as a Sanitarian (4735), Assistant Sanitarian (4705) or Senior Sanitarian (4745) on or before May 24, 1996 is transferred for the benefit of management to a headquarter more than 20 miles from his/her home, the employee shall be paid at the established rate for all miles driven to work in excess of 20 miles.
JT-01
66
ARTICLE 8. ALLOWANCES FOR WORK-RELATED EXPENDITURES (Cont=d)
F.	Appraiser/Audit Appraiser
An employee in a class listed below may be assigned to a work location at an office other than the nearest to his/her home. Whenever an employee is employed or transferred for the benefit of management to a work location more than 15 miles from his/her home, the employee shall be paid at the established rate for all miles driven to and from work in excess of 30 miles.
5502 - Appraiser IV
5503 - Appraiser III
5504 - Appraiser II
5505 - Appraiser I
5510 - Appraiser Trainee
5511 - Property Assessment Specialist I
5512 - Supervising Appraiser I
5513 - Supervising Appraiser II
5517 - Property Assessment Specialist II
5518 - Property Assessment Specialist III
5526 - Audit Appraiser III
5527 - Audit Appraiser II
5528 - Audit Appraiser I
5529 - Supervising Audit Appraiser
5530 - Audit Appraiser Specialist
G.	Reimbursement Schedule for Travel Outside San Diego County
Employees shall be paid in accordance with the rates set forth on the schedule adopted by resolution of the Board of Supervisors for trips on County business outside the County of San Diego, but within the State of California.
H.	Committee To Study High Mileage Usage
A committee composed of representatives of the Union and the County will be convened to review the issues related to high mileage use by employees who use their vehicles on County business. For the purpose of this committee, “high mileage” shall be defined as mileage in excess of three hundred fifty (350) miles per month. This committee will be convened ninety (90) days following the effective date of this Agreement.
JT-01
67
ARTICLE 8. ALLOWANCES FOR WORK-RELATED EXPENDITURES (Cont=d)
Section 4.	Parking and Transportation
A.	Parking
This Section does not guarantee the provision of free parking spaces for employees. County parking lots, where available, will have the spaces contained therein designated in the following priority:
1.	Disabled
2.	Public
3.	Carpools
4.	County-owned vehicles
5.	Official County business - transient
6.	County employees
Employees who participate in carpools (2 or more persons per vehicle, 4 days per week minimum) shall be entitled to preferential parking spaces, when available.
B.	Transportation Reimbursement for Certain Downtown Locations and Bus Pass Reimbursement
The County shall reimburse all employees paid on a biweekly basis except those on an “hourly” or “special rate” pay basis for costs incurred in traveling to and from work, as follows:
1.	Up to sixty-five dollars ($65) reimbursement per month for each eligible employee who purchases a San Diego Metropolitan Transit Development Board “Ready Pass” (which includes trolley usage), or County Transit System bus pass, or North County Transit District “Coaster Plus Pass”, or “Coaster 10-Trip Ticket”, or similar monthly pass. Employees are eligible to participate in the Transit Pass Program on the first day of the month following their date of hire. An employee will not be reimbursed for any amount in excess of the actual cost of the pass; or
2.	Fifty dollars ($50) reimbursement per month for each eligible employee who incurs parking expenses at the below locations; or
3.	Twenty-five dollars ($25) reimbursement per month for each eligible employee who incurs expense as a participant in the County Ride-Sharing Program at the below locations.
Applicable locations for 2. and 3. above: San Diego Courthouse, Hall of Justice, Jail, 1027 10th St., Ash Street Facility, Center City Building, the Beech Street Office, the Wells Fargo Building and 1350 Front Street. Eligibility for 2. and 3. above is to be determined through certification by the appointing authority that the employee
JT-01
68
ARTICLE 8. ALLOWANCES FOR WORK-RELATED EXPENDITURES (Cont=d)
has incurred either, a) parking expense of at least fifty dollars ($50); or b) expense as a participant in the County Ride-Sharing Program of at least twenty-five dollars ($25) per month, subject to the rules and regulations of the Auditor and Controller. The administration of the sale to employees of discounted transit passes shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the Auditor and Controller.
Section 5.	County Owned and Maintained Housing Facilities
The parties agree to the provisions of the County Policy on EMPLOYEE OCCUPIED COUNTY-OWNED RESIDENCES as adopted by the Board of Supervisors on May 1, 1990.
Section 6.	Meals in County Facilities
Charges to employees for meals furnished by County departments, except where employees are provided free meals while on duty, shall be:
$2.10 per meal when purchased individually.
$2.00 per meal when purchased in books of ten.
Sheriff’s Department:
Only those employees who are assigned to work within the jail shall be able to obtain meals within the jail in order to maintain the security of this locked facility.
Section 7.	Repayment of Specialized Training Expenses
A.	The County may recover specialized training expenses from an employee who terminates employment within one year of completion date of such training consistent with the following schedule of reimbursement:
Completion Date
Reimbursement
Within 3 months
After 3 months - before 6 months
After 6 months - before 12 months
After 1 year
100%
50%
25%
0%
B.	In cases where specialized training is to be made available, the Appointing Authority shall include in the request for training authorization a signed agreement between the County and the employee which provides that training costs in excess of $1,000 for any single training session or related series of training sessions will be reimbursed to the County if the employee voluntarily terminates prior to one year for any reason other than death or disability retirement.
C.	Training costs shall be calculated to include:
JT-01
69
ARTICLE 8. ALLOWANCES FOR WORK-RELATED EXPENDITURES (Cont=d)
1.	Travel expenses
2.	Meals and lodging expenses
3.	Registration or tuition expenses
4.	Books and other related materials expenses
D.	At the request of the Appointing Authority, the Chief Financial Officer may consider a reduction of, or a complete release from, the employee’s obligation if extreme hardship can be demonstrated in writing.
E.	Specialized training is determined by the Appointing Authority, and generally does not include conferences or training that is required for performing the basic functions and duties of employee’s classification.
F.	Further, this provision shall not apply to training with no net cost to the County by virtue of being covered by an offsetting grant or other reimbursement.
ARTICLE 9.	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Section 1.	Retirement
Retirement benefits for employees hired on or prior to September 30, 1978, shall be those established for Tier I of the General Retirement Program for eligible employees.
Retirement benefits for employees hired on or after October 1, 1978, shall be those established for Tier II of the General Retirement Program for eligible employees.
The County shall pay the rate prescribed for employer contributions into the General Retirement Fund for the Tier I and Tier II programs in accordance with the law and the rules and regulations governing such employer contributions.
The Board of Supervisors shall adopt the employee retirement contribution rates recommended by the Retirement Board within ninety (90) days after the beginning of the immediately succeeding fiscal year from the date the recommendation is made.
A.	Elimination of Tier II
Effective October 19, 2001 (or upon satisfaction of all contingencies contained in County Proposal “A”, whichever is later), based upon their Tier II general and/or Tier II safety statuses, retirement benefits for employees hired or rehired on or after October 1, 1978, shall be respectively converted prospectively to those established for Tier I of the General Retirement Program and/or Tier I of the Safety Retirement Program for eligible employees. Upon the October 19, 2001 or later effective date,
JT-01
70
ARTICLE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Cont'd)
such employees shall pay, via payroll deduction, the amount prescribed by the rate established for each employee’s contribution for their respective General and/or Safety benefit Tier I into the appropriate fund in accordance with the law and rules and regulations governing such employee contributions.
The County shall pay the accrued liability for previous service before October 19, 2001 for the elimination of Tier II general and/or Tier II safety conversion to Tier I general and/or Tier I safety status and pay the rate prescribed for employer contributions into the General and/or Safety Retirement Fund for the Tier I program in accordance with the law and rules and regulations governing such employer contributions.
Any active eligible member in the safety or general retirement program who has paid or is currently paying to convert their previous Tier II general and/or Tier II safety statuses to Tier I general and/or Tier I safety statuses, may file a reimbursement claim for the specific conversion amounts paid with the County within sixty (60) days after October 19, 2001, or within sixty (60) days after the effective date of this provision, whichever is later. The County will provide rules and forms for implementing the reimbursement claim payment.
B.	Optional Formula Enhancement - “Tier A” For General Members
Effective March 8, 2002 (or upon satisfaction of all contingencies contained in County Proposal “A”, whichever is later), based upon their Tier I general status, eligible employees shall have the option as described below, to be covered by an enhanced retirement formula “Tier A” that includes formulas of two (2.0%) percent at age fifty (50), two and one half percent (2.5%) at age fifty-five (55) and three percent (3.0%) at age sixty (60) consistent with law and subject to the rules and regulations of the San Diego County Employees Retirement Association.
Eligible employees may make an irrevocable election, on a form provided by the County, for such enhancement formula “Tier A” during a one-time window period beginning at 8:00 a.m. on November 1, 2001 and ending at 5:00 p.m. on January 31, 2002, or such later window period as may be established.
Retirement benefits for employees hired on or after March 8, 2002 or such later date, shall be those established for “Tier A” of the General Retirement Program for eligible employees.
Upon the March 8, 2002 or later effective date, such employees electing the General members enhanced retirement formula “Tier A” shall pay the normal cost increase for prospective service, via payroll deduction, the amount prescribed by the rate established for each employee’s contribution for the General benefit “Tier A” and/or Safety benefit Tier I into the appropriate fund in accordance with the law and rules and regulations governing such employee contributions.
JT-01
71
ARTICLE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Cont'd)
The County shall pay the accrued liability for previous service before March 8, 2002 or such later date, for the enhanced retirement formula Tier A and pay the rate prescribed for employer contributions into the General Retirement Fund for the Tier I or Tier A and/or Safety Retirement Fund for the Tier I program in accordance with the law and rules and regulations governing such employer contributions. Notwithstanding the provisions of “A” above and “B”, the employer and employee contribution rates are subject to annual San Diego County Employees Retirement Association actuarial reviews and establishment of rates.
C.	Retirement Offset
1.	Each employee shall pay, via payroll deduction, the amount prescribed by the rate established for each employee’s contribution for the appropriate General benefit Tier into the appropriate fund in accordance with the rules and regulations governing such employee contributions excepting that the County will contribute the following but no more than the employee’s established rate, to the fund on behalf of the General employee covered by this Agreement. In the event that the employee’s rate is less than 6.0% or 7%, the employee shall not be credited with the difference.
AE, CL, FS, MM, PR, PS Units	- 7.0%
SS Unit	- 6.0% effective October 19, 2001 or such later date as Tier II is eliminated
Upon termination, employees shall have no vested right in the amount of retirement funds contributed by the County on their behalf.
2.	a. One-half Retirement Offset: Effective June 19, 1998 through completion of at least five (5) years of continuous service in the retirement system, employees shall receive one-half of the retirement offset provided for in Section B.1 above.
b. Full Retirement Offset: Upon completion of at least five (5) years of continuous service in the County retirement system, employees covered by (a) above, shall receive the full retirement offset established in Section B.1 of this Article.
d. Notwithstanding Subsection B. 2. (a) and (b) hereinabove, the County has the right to:
i.	determine which classification(s), if any, shall be exempted from this provision;
JT-01
72
ARTICLE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Cont'd)
ii.	implement such determinations as the County deems advisable.
D.	The County and the SEIU, Local 2028 acknowledge that all provisions of this Agreement, including Article 9, Section 1. Retirement, together with those other matters within the scope of representation, are subject to renegotiation upon the expiration of this Agreement to the extent provided by law.
E.	Thirty-year (30) Employees: Any employee in classes with the following representation status designators who have thirty (30) continuous years of retirement credit on the last day of Payroll 02 shall be paid a one-time payment in lieu of retirement contribution offset in the amount specified below, on the payday for Payroll 04, of one thousand dollars ($1,000) for AE, CL, FS, MM, PR, PS and SS Units in lieu of the County’s contribution under paragraph C. of this section.
Section 2.	Insurance/Flexible Benefits Plan
Eligibility:	Employees employed on a full-time (80-hour biweekly) basis shall be eligible
for insurance benefits. Employees employed on a part-time basis and who are regularly scheduled to work one-half time or more (40 hours or more in an 80-hour biweekly pay period) and paid on a biweekly pay basis shall be eligible for insurance benefits.
A.	Flexible Benefits Plan
A flexible benefits plan, which is in accordance with Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code, was implemented for eligible employees covered by this Agreement on October 1, 1990.
1.	Plan Design. The flexible benefits plan is a cafeteria-style benefits program wherein the County makes a contribution towards the Flexible Benefits Plan for each eligible employee to be allocated during the employee’s active employment. The County contribution is distributed by the employee among the menu of benefit options listed below, the specific details and administration of which are set forth in the plan brochures:
“Core” Benefits:
! health insurance
! County basic life and AD&D insurance
Optional Benefits:
! dental insurance
! vision insurance
JT-01
73
ARTICLE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Cont'd)
! supplemental life insurance
! supplemental accidental death and dismemberment insurance (AD&D)
! flexible spending accounts for pre-tax reimbursement of qualified medical and/or dependent day care expenses. Account credits must be used during the plan year in which they are earned for expenses incurred during the same plan year.
! The plan may be modified upon written notice by the County.
This plan includes for eligible employees pre-tax contributions for all monies paid towards health, dental, vision and/or voluntary AD&D plans.
2.	Coverage.
a.	All eligible employees are required to have the following minimum “core” benefits for the employee only:
! County health insurance unless properly waived
! County basic life and AD&D insurance
b.	Coverage by County Spouse: An eligible County employee married to another eligible County employee may elect health insurance coverage as a dependent under the spouse’s primary plan. In such a case, the employee covered as a dependent will have the “employee only” County contribution amount available to apply towards the employee’s Flexible Benefits Plan during the employee’s active employment.
c.	Proof of Coverage: Employees who submit satisfactory “Proof of Health Insurance Coverage” may elect not to be covered by the County’s health insurance plans. This election may only be made during the County’s open enrollment period or during the year as the result of a qualifying “change in status” as defined by Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code. For employees waiving primary participation in a County-sponsored health plan, the County’s contribution will be deposited into the employee’s Flexible Spending Account.
d.	Domestic Partner: An employee may elect to cover a domestic partner under the County’s health, dental or vision plans. To cover a domestic partner, the employee must meet and agree to the specifications set forth on an “Affidavit of Domestic Partnership.” Any premium paid by the County on behalf of the domestic partner or the domestic partner’s dependent(s) shall be considered taxable income to the employee with domestic partner coverage pursuant to the
JT-01
74
ARTICLE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Cont'd)
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
3.	County Contribution Towards Flexible Benefits Plan. Insurance premium costs shall be borne by the employee excepting that the County shall make the following contribution towards the Flexible Benefits Plan (which includes health insurance). The employee’s insurance premium costs will be reduced by the amount the employee elects to distribute to his or her insurance premium costs from the County’s contribution towards the Flexible Benefits Plan. The County’s contribution towards the Flexible Benefits Plan shall be:
From July 1, 2001 to September 30, 2001:
	Per Month	Approximate Annual
Employee Only	$221.00	$2,652.00
Employee + 1	$278.00	$3,336.00
Employee + 2 or More	$331.00	$3,972.00
From October 1, 2001 to September 30, 2002:
	Per Month	Approximate Annual
Employee Only	$226.00	$2,712.00
Employee + 1	$293.00	$3,516.00
Employee + 2 or More	$361.00	$4,332.00
From October 1, 2002 to September 30, 2003:
	Per Month	Approximate Annual
Employee Only	$232.00	$2,784.00
Employee + 1	$309.00	$3,708.00
Employee + 2 or More	$397.00	$4,764.00
JT-01
75
ARTICLE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Cont'd)
From October 1, 2003 to September 30, 2004:
	Per Month	Approximate Annual
Employee Only	$238.00	$2,856.00
Employee + 1	$325.00	$3,900.00
Employee + 2 or More	$433.00	$5,196.00
From October 1, 2004 to September 30, 2005:
	Per Month	Approximate Annual
Employee Only	$244.00	$2,928.00
Employee + 1	$341.00	$4,092.00
Employee + 2 or More	$469.00	$5,628.00
From October 1, 2005 to September 30, 2006:
	Per Month	Approximate Annual
Employee Only	$250.00	$3,000.00
Employee + 1	$357.00	$4,284.00
Employee + 2 or More	$505.00	$6,060.00
4.	Effective Dates of Eligibility Under The Flexible Benefits Plan. The effective date of eligibility under the Flexible Benefits Plan for new employees shall be the first day of the month following month of hire provided that the employee has completed and returned all enrollment forms within the month of hire. If completed forms are not received by the end of the month of hire, benefits will be effective the first day of the month following receipt of completed forms. All forms must be received in the Employee Benefits Division within thirty (30) days of hire in order for benefits to commence. Eligibility shall terminate on the last day of the month in which an employee last had paid service provided that the employee’s portion of the health insurance premium is paid for such period.
JT-01
76
ARTICLE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Cont'd)
Notwithstanding the above, eligibility for all flexible benefits plan features which are in addition to health insurance shall be thirty (30) days after the effective date on which health insurance coverage begins.
5.	Employee Insurance Coverage During Leaves of Absence
a.	Life Insurance. Employees on leave without pay for any reason, including suspension, may continue their life insurance coverage for up to six (6) full months.
Employees choosing to continue their life insurance shall pay all premiums in advance for the first three months of continuance and shall pay further premiums in quarterly payments thereafter no later than the 21st of the last month of each quarter. Employees may pay all premiums required for the entire six (6) month leave period in advance. In the event an employee who is on leave without pay does not pay premiums in advance, the coverage shall be discontinued. Such employees shall be entitled to re-apply upon return to work subject to medical insurability acceptable to the insurance provider.
b.	Medical Insurance (Includes Health Insurance) During Leaves of Absence. During leave without pay, and in accordance with the Federal Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-272), employees may continue their health insurance coverage for up to eighteen (18) full months following the month in which the leave commenced.
In the event an employee who is on leave without pay does not pay medical insurance premiums in advance, the coverage shall be discontinued. Such employees shall be automatically re-enrolled in the same health plan enjoyed previous to leave without pay, within 30 days from the date they return to work.
Effective date of coverage will be the first day of the month following receipt of enrollment forms in the Employee Benefits Office. With certain health plans, re-enrollment is contingent upon medical insurability.
The commencement of leave without pay shall be considered a “qualifying event” as defined under COBRA by virtue of the employee’s reduction in working hours. Employees who elect coverage under COBRA by choosing to continue their medical insurance shall pay 102% of the applicable premium and shall be subject to the same administrative requirements as all other COBRA
JT-01
77
ARTICLE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Cont'd)
group plan members. Premiums will be calculated and paid by the employee at least one month in advance.
c.	The administration of these benefits are subject to the rules and requirements of the Department of Human Resources.
B.	Life Insurance
The County’s Flexible Benefit Plan shall include as a “Core” Benefit, Life Insurance for each eligible employee in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) for the employee and two thousand dollars ($2,000) for each dependent.
C.	Deferred Compensation
Employees shall be eligible to participate in the Deferred Compensation Program provided and administered by the County or the County’s selected administrative agent (or agency).
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES
Section 1.	Personnel Files
An employee, or a Union representative with the written consent of the employee, may inspect that employee’s personnel file with the exception of all material obtained from other employers and agencies at the time that employee was hired. Employees shall normally request such files 48 hours in advance of such inspection.
An employee shall be entitled to read any statement, written by the employee’s supervisor or departmental management, on his/her work performance or conduct if such statement is to be filed. No such statement shall be filed before all County appeal rights are exhausted.
If such a statement is inadvertently filed before all County appeal rights are exhausted, the employee may request sealing of the applicable portions of his/her file by the Civil Service Commission. The request for sealing may be made after a decision on the appeal has been rendered. All such statements on which filing is delayed pending completion of the County appeal process, shall be filed upon the rendering of a decision, if such decision upholds the statement or charges against the employee in whole or, if upheld in part, it shall be filed as amended.
The employee shall acknowledge reading such material by affixing his/her signature on the actual copy to be filed, with the understanding that such signature merely signifies that the employee has read the material to be filed and does not necessarily indicate agreement with its content. If the employee refuses to initial, the supervisor will sign, noting the refusal of the employee to initial.
JT-01
78
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
Disciplinary action includes a letter of warning, written reprimand, suspension, demotion, or discharge. If the department takes disciplinary action against an employee, the department, upon request of the employee, will furnish the employee a copy of all documents or written statements used by the department as a basis for its action.
At the time of conferences, meetings, or hearings held for the purpose of disciplinary action as defined in Paragraph 4 or which the employee believes may result in disciplinary action, the employee shall have the right to representation, including Union representation.
All correspondence of commendation shall be entered as a permanent part of an employee’s personnel file, except where they are shown to be frivolous. In that case, they shall be returned to the employee.
Any document that was mistakenly placed in the employee’s personnel file, shall be removed from the personnel file by the Department of Human Resources upon the written request of the employee and the employee’s appointing authority.
All departments shall follow Department of Human Resources Policy 0805B.
Section 2.	Dismissal During Probation
Probationary employees will be given as much notice as is possible of their dismissal during probation either through the performance report or other written notification. In the event that emergency circumstances exist in which the immediate removal of an employee is essential to avert harm to the County or to the public, or in which the employee has threatened harm to the County or public, the appointing authority may remove the employee immediately.
Section 3.	Employees in the Food Services Unit
For employees in the Food Services Unit, management will provide a list to provide relief for sick leave and other personnel shortages in the Probation Department and the Health & Human Services Agency. Employees on this list will either have prior experience at the facility where they are relieving or other equivalent experience which would qualify them for working at the facility.
Section 4.	Environmental Health Specialist I
Employees in Class 4721 - Environmental Health Specialist I, shall be granted the necessary time, up to eight (8) hours of County time, in which to take the exam for Registered Environmental Health Specialist.
JT-01
79
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
Section 5.	Working Conditions and Workload Standards Committee - Social Services Supervisors Unit
It is agreed that the Union can establish a standing committee to review and monitor working conditions and workload standards directly impacting this unit.
This committee will include a maximum of three employee representatives and may be convened at the request of the Union to meet with management to discuss unusual problems in physical working conditions or major changes in workload which are under study as the result of management review of Federal and State regulations and legislation prior to implementation whenever possible.
Both parties recognize that the Health and Human Services Agency is subject to many external influences and controls which generate or preclude changes under the authority of Agency management. Such issues as physical working conditions and operational circumstances may require consideration of management outside the Agency.
Management recognizes the need to actively communicate with the Union on matters pertaining to changes in working conditions and will utilize this committee to enhance this communication.
The committee will make recommendations to the Director of the Agency. The Director will accept or reject the recommendations and will respond to the committee in writing within a mutually agreed upon time.
Section 6.	Application of Seniority to Administrative Transfers - Social Services Supervisors Unit
When employees in classes in the Social Service Supervisors Unit are to be administratively involuntarily transferred, the application of seniority to said transfers will be discussed by the Health and Human Services Agency with the Union upon request.
Section 7.	Legal Representation
Upon request of an employee and subject to any limitations provided by law, the County will provide for the defense of any civil action or proceeding initiated against the employee by a person or entity other than the County in a court of competent jurisdiction on account of any act or omission occurring within the course and scope of his/her employment as an employee of the County.
Nothing herein shall be deemed to require the provision of such defense where the discretion to provide or not provide such defense is vested in the County pursuant to the provisions of the California Government Code, now and as amended or where the act or omission was not within the scope of the employee’s employment, or the employee acted
JT-01
80
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
or failed to act because of actual fraud, corruption or actual malice, or where the provision of such defense would create a conflict of interest between the County and the employee.
Nothing herein shall be construed to grant to any employee any rights or privileges in addition to those provided in the said Government Code.
Section 8.	Layoff Procedure
A.	General
When the Board of Supervisors determines it is necessary through lack of work or funds, to reduce the number of employees in any class covered by this Agreement, the appointing authority of the department concerned shall notify the Director in writing of the number of employees to be laid off, the class title, and the date the employees are to be laid off. Upon receipt of such notice, the Director shall give to the appointing authority, the names of the employees who should be first laid off in accordance with this procedure.
B.	Exceptions
1.	Suborganizational Layoff. When the appointing authority so requests, the Chief Administrative Officer may authorize an appointing authority to layoff employees within a division, office, section, institution or other subdivision of an office, department or institution instead of laying off employees from the office, department or institution as a whole. In such case, the foregoing provisions shall be applied to the division, office, section, institution or other subdivisions within which the Chief Administrative Officer has authorized the layoff. Prior to such layoff, the appointing authority shall provide the Union with notice and, upon request, shall meet on the impact of the layoff with the Union to discuss this matter and alternatives to such layoff.
2.	Required Specialized Skills. When the appointing authority so requests, employees who perform required services and possess specialized knowledge, and/or skill not possessed by other employees in the Department and which are necessary to the operation of the Department, may be excepted from layoff, as authorized by the Civil Service Commission pursuant to a finding that such exception from layoff is in the public interest.
C.	Notice of Layoff
1.	Department of Human Resources Notice to Department and to Union. Prior to the occurrence of a layoff, the Director, shall provide written notice to the Union when the Department is notified of any employees covered by this Agreement, who are identified for layoff. This notice shall list all persons in
JT-01
81
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
the affected class including the number, class title, seniority rating, and date on which affected employees are to be laid off.
2.	Appointing Authority Notice to Employees. Upon receipt of the layoff list, the appointing authority shall prepare and serve a Notice of Layoff. The notice shall contain the following information:
a.	The effective date of layoff;
b.	The seniority rating of the employee computed by the Director;
c.	The seniority ranking of the employee on the layoff list for the
particular class involved in the layoff;
d.	The total number of layoffs for the particular class;
e.	A statement of the computation of seniority ratings and rankings;
f.	A copy of the complete layoff list compiled by the Director showing the seniority rating for each employee on the layoff list;
g.	A statement that the employee has the opportunity to contact the Director or designated representative no later than five (5) business days after receipt of the Notice of Layoff to inspect the records relating to the computation of the layoff list including the employee’s seniority rating and ranking, and to meet with the Director or designated representative regarding any corrections related to such list, rating, or ranking. The employee shall be informed that failure to contact or meet with the Director or designated representative within the prescribed period will be deemed a waiver of any objections that might have been raised regarding the list, rating, or ranking;
h.	A statement that the layoff will be effective on the date indicated unless the appointing authority advises the employee in writing otherwise prior to the effective date and time set forth on the notice;
i.	A copy of provisions of Rule XIV of the Rules pertaining to layoff.
D.	Approval and Service of Notice
The Notice of Layoff shall be approved by County Counsel prior to its distribution to any employee. The Notice of Layoff shall be served, either personally or by mail, on an employee at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the effective date of the layoff.
E.	Order of Layoff
JT-01
82
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
Except for permanent employees who volunteer to be laid off, the order of layoff within the class and in the Department, shall be in the following order (the appointing authority may layoff a volunteer for layoff at any point in this order):
1.	Provisional Employee. Definition: An employee who has not completed a probationary period and who has not been appointed to his/her present class from an eligible list.
2.	Certified Temporary Employee. Definition: An employee who has not completed a probationary period and has been temporarily appointed from an eligible list for a specified period.
3.	Probationary Employee. Definition: An employee who has been appointed to a permanent position from an eligible list and is currently serving, but who has never completed, a probationary period.
4.	Permanent Employee. Definition: An employee who has completed a probationary period or a permanent employee who is serving a probationary period in the same or a different class.
Permanent employees shall be laid off according to the layoff ratings, lowest ratings first. The order of layoff within categories 1, 2, and 3, and for permanent employees with equal layoff ratings, shall be at the appointing authority’s discretion. Employees on leave shall be laid off or demoted in lieu of layoff as if they were active employees.
F.	Seniority
Seniority is the employee’s total hours of continuous County service. All service of a blanketed-in employee shall, for the period prior to classification to the position, be credited for seniority purposes whether or not it was continuous. All seniority is lost upon resignation or dismissal. Any employee who has gained permanent status and is laid off, shall, if reinstated, regain his/her seniority credit possessed at the time he/she was laid off.
G.	Calculation of Layoff Rating
1.	Continuous-service-date to May 23, 1986 (“historical” layoff rating). The purpose of this “historical” layoff rating is to calculate employees’ service credit for purposes of the past to the date of the last full pay period May 9, 1986. These points will constitute employee’s layoff rating for the past, to which the points calculated for prospective implementation (standard layoff rating) will be added as provided below:
JT-01
83
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
Historical layoff rating: One (1) point for each hour of continuous (unbroken) service from last date employee was hired into the classified service (80 points for each full biweekly pay period).
2.	Standard layoff rating: One (1) point for each hour of paid service (excludes all unpaid leaves or periods of suspension but includes short-term voluntary work furlough), after the day specified in (1) above.
3.	Formula for combining historical and standard layoff ratings. Employees in classes identified for layoff shall have their seniority calculated as follows to combine historical and standards ratings:
Total historical ratings: Hrs. Plus: standard rating: Hrs.
Total: Hrs./Points
The total of these two ratings shall constitute the employee’s official layoff rating.
H.	Demotion in Lieu of Layoff
The appointing authority shall determine by class, subject to review by the Director, whether demotion shall be afforded employees as an option in lieu of layoff.
At the request of the appointing authority, a permanent employee shall, in lieu of layoff, be afforded the option of demotion within the same department to a position in a lower class, provided that no such demotion shall in turn require the layoff or demotion from such lower class of any employee whose layoff rating is at least as high as that of the demoting employee. A probationary employee may be afforded the opportunity to accept a demotion within the same department to a position in a lower class provided no such demotion shall in turn require the layoff of any employee in the lower class. Such probationer shall not become permanent in the lower class by this action except by completing a new full probation period in such lower class.
I.	Cash in Lieu of Compensatory Time Off
The Board of Supervisors may approve the payment of cash in lieu of compensatory time off for any employee who is laid off when such payment is in the best interests of the public service.
J.	Eligibility to be Placed on Reinstatement List
A permanent employee who is laid off, demoted in lieu of layoff, or whose compensation ordinance position is to be deleted as a result of the Board of
JT-01
84
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
Supervisors having had a second reading of an Ordinance amendment to delete the position, shall have his/her name placed on the reinstatement list for the class from which the employee is, or is to be, laid off or demoted in lieu of layoff. Employees shall be on the reinstatement list for three (3) years except that an employee who three (3) times refuses an offer of reinstatement to the class from which he/she was laid off, or to a class of equal status, or fails to respond to an offer of reinstatement, shall have his/her name removed from the reinstatement list following said refusal. In addition, if the employee on the reinstatement list is appointed to a class from which he/she was laid off, or to a different class of equal or greater status than the reinstatement list class, then his/her name shall be removed from the reinstatement list. An employee who accepts an offer of reinstatement to the class from which he/she was laid off shall also be removed from the reinstatement list upon the date of reinstatement. The placement on the reinstatement list shall be determined in the same manner as for the order of layoff except in the inverse order thereof. Employees on the reinstatement list shall have the first right of reinstatement to any vacancies in any department for the class for which he/she is eligible for such reinstatement, subject to the following:
1.	A new probationary period shall not be required of an employee reinstated to a department from which he/she was laid off.
2.	A new probationary period shall be required of an employee reinstated to a different department than that from which he/she was laid off, except that failure of probation shall return the employee to the reinstatement list. In no event shall such failure of probation extend the employee’s placement on the reinstatement list beyond three years from the date of placement on it.
3.	A reinstated employee will regain his/her seniority credit possessed at the time he/she was laid off, which shall count for purposes of vacation accrual rate and step increase. In addition, the employee’s sick leave balance (except for that portion for which the employee paid cash at the time of layoff), and compensatory time off balance accrued as of layoff, shall be reinstated.
Section 9.	Safety
The County and the Union agree that safe working conditions are the mutual responsibility of each employee and supervisor. Each employee has the responsibility to immediately report an unsafe working condition to his/her supervisor. The supervisor has the responsibility to investigate an allegation that a working condition is unsafe. The parties agree that the following procedure shall be utilized in promoting a safe work environment for all employees:
A.	All employees shall be entitled, through an appropriate forum, to participate in the development of safety programs.
JT-01
85
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
B.	The County shall provide a list of all safety officers, their department, addresses, and phone numbers to the Union. Such list shall be kept current by the County.
C.	No employee shall be obligated to work in a facility or worksite, with any machinery or on equipment which is not safe.
D.	Any employee who believes that an unsafe condition exists shall report such condition verbally to the supervisor immediately upon discovery of such condition. The employee shall report such condition to the supervisor in writing as soon as possible. After receipt of a written report, the supervisor shall have the responsibility to remedy the situation or to seek an opinion from qualified personnel in the County whether an unsafe working condition exists. If a determination is made that an unsafe working condition exists, corrective action process shall be initiated as soon as possible.
E.	If the supervisor fails to respond or refuses to initiate the corrective action process, the employee may present the written report to his/her Union steward, or if no steward is available, the Union field representative. Such Union officer shall be entitled to communicate with the appropriate safety officer(s) or, subsequently, the appointing authority’s representative to seek a resolution of the issue.
F.	A disagreement between the employee and the supervisor as to whether or not an unsafe working condition exists may be addressed pursuant to the Grievance Procedure. Such grievance shall be processed in an expeditious manner.
Section 10.	Labor Management Committees
A.	Departmental Committees
1.	Departmental Labor Management Committees will be established in the Departments of General Services, the Health and Human Services Agency, Public Works and the Sheriff to be composed of a coordinator and four (4) employee representatives and one (1) staff representative from the Union, and five (5) representatives from the County. The Committee shall address issues concerning all departments employing employees covered by this Agreement.
2.	The Committee shall meet at least quarterly, or upon the written request of either party, for the purpose of discussing matters of mutual concern. Grievances and adverse actions shall not be discussed at such meetings. Matters subject to the duty to bargain and not appropriately discussed in another forum, such as the Safety Committee, may be discussed. However, the Labor Management Committee shall not have the authority to add to, amend, or modify this Memorandum of Agreement.
JT-01
86
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
3.	During the term of this agreement, the subject of workload shall be a standing issue. Other issues to be discussed at said meetings shall be submitted to the Committee Coordinator along with the names of resource people, if any, for an agenda prior to the meeting. If additional resource people are needed, a reasonable number may be called to the meeting, subject to their availability.
4.	Meetings: The Labor Management Committee shall be authorized to meet on County premises and on County time, not to exceed two (2) hours per meeting.
B.	Departmental Ad-Hoc Labor Management Committee
The parties agree to establish Ad-hoc Labor Management Committees for all departments not listed above to be convened upon mutual agreement or upon request of the Union to address issues concerning all employees covered by this Agreement.
1.	Such ad-hoc committees shall each be composed of a coordinator and three (3) employee representatives and one (1) representative from the Union and four (4) representatives from the County.
2.	Grievances, and adverse actions shall not be discussed at such meetings. Matters subject to the duty to bargain and not appropriately discussed in another forum, such as the Safety Committee, may be discussed. However, such Ad-hoc Labor Management Committee shall not have the authority to add to, amend, or modify this Memorandum of Agreement.
3.	During the term of this agreement, the subject of workload shall be a standing issue. Other issues to be discussed at said meetings shall be submitted mutually designated committee coordinator along with the names of resource people, if any, for an agenda prior to the meeting. If additional resource people are needed, a reasonable number maybe called to the meeting, subject to their availability.
4.	Meetings: The Labor Management Committee shall be authorized to meet on County premises and on County time, not to exceed (2) hours per meeting.
C.	Labor Management Committee - Social Services Supervisors
1.	A Labor Management Committee shall be established and shall be composed of three (3) employees from the Social Services Supervisors’ bargaining unit and one (1) staff representative from the Union and four (4)
JT-01
87
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
representatives from Health and Human Services Agency. The committee shall review and monitor working conditions and workload standards directly impacting this unit.
2.	The committee shall meet at least quarterly. In addition upon the written request of either party, and upon mutual consent, a meeting may be scheduled to deal with issues that may arise within the Health and Human Services Agency.
Grievances, and adverse actions shall not be discussed at such meetings. Matters related to the duty to bargain and not appropriately discussed in another forum, such as the Safety Committee may be discussed. However, the Labor Management Committee shall not have the authority to add to, amend or modify this MOA.
3.	During the term of this agreement, the subject of workload shall be a standing issue. Other issues to be discussed at said meetings shall be submitted to the committee coordinator along with the names of resource people, if any, for an agenda prior to the meeting. If additional resource people are needed a reasonable number may be called to the meeting, subject to their availability.
4.	Meetings: The Labor Management Committee shall be authorized to meet on County premises and on County time not to exceed two (2) hours per meeting.
Section 11.	Codes of Employee Conduct
The appointing authority may promulgate work and safety rules for the safe, efficient and effective operation of the organization as deemed appropriate by the appointing authority.
Section 12.	Smoking
The administration and regulation of smoking in County facilities shall be in accordance with the amended Ordinance (New Series), County of San Diego Administrative Manual/Board of Supervisors Policy as adopted by the Board of Supervisors and administered by the Chief Administrative Officer.
Section 13.	Employee Recognition Programs
Employee recognition programs may be instituted in County departments. The purpose of such programs will be to recognize exemplary employees and improve public service through enhanced motivation. The establishment, disestablishment, administration and regulation of all employee recognition programs shall be at the discretion of the Chief
JT-01
88
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
Administrative Officer. Such programs as are established shall not be subject to appeal under the Grievance Procedure of this Agreement.
Section 14.	Drug and Alcohol Use Policy
The County and Union agree on all negotiable provisions of the DRUG & ALCOHOL USE POLICY. This Policy is implemented by inclusion in the County’s DRUG & ALCOHOL USE POLICY (which this policy is a part thereof) through appropriate approvals and adoption by the Board of Supervisors. The Chief Administrative Officer shall administer the Policy. Copies of this Policy and the “Support by Employee Organizations” Agreement shall be printed and distributed to all new employees covered by this Memorandum of Agreement.
Section 15.	Clerical Dignity and Respect
The County is committed to support the practice of all employees interacting in a dignified and respectful manner at all times in the workplace. To memorialize this ongoing commitment, the County agrees with the Union to give “Clerical Dignity and Respect” issues first priority at the departmental Labor Management Committees when they convene for the first time. The first item to be placed on the agenda of each committee will be “Clerical Dignity and Respect” issues to be seriously considered by the members of each committee. Employees with dignity and respect concerns may be called upon to make presentations at these committee meetings. If it appears to be beneficial, a special facilitator could be brought in by the parties through a mutually acceptable process.
Each departmental Labor Management Committee will then draft a mutually agreeable process for routinely addressing “Clerical Dignity and Respect.”
Section 16.	Alternate Work Schedule Changes
If an employee=s alternate work schedule is changed to address performance issues, the employee will be given the reason(s) for the change. The employee will also be given goals to achieve and a time line for resuming their alternate schedule.
Section 17.	Protective Policy
A.	This Policy shall only apply to employees employed by the Health & Human Services Agency, the Department of Housing and Investigators of the Public Defender and Alternate Public Defender.
B.	When an employee is personally threatened by an individual(s) related to a case due to job-related reasons, the employee may request that the Agency or Department conduct a prompt investigation to determine whether any one or more of the following actions would be appropriate:
1.
Case re-assignment;
JT-01
89
ARTICLE 10. PERSONNEL PRACTICES (Cont'd)
2.	Temporary transfer to other duties, if available;
3.	Other actions as appropriate.
4.	If the investigation shows that the personal threat interferes with the employee’s performance of his/her job duties, the Agency or Department may recommend that the County file injunctive Court action against the threatening individuals(s) in conformance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 527.6 prohibiting harassment.
C.	When an employee believes that he/she is working with a potentially dangerous person, the employee must notify his/her supervisor of such a belief and the reasons therefore. At the request of the employee, the Agency or Department shall consider providing support personnel for the employee during the time he/she is working with such a person in the course and scope of the employee’s duties. No employee shall be required to visit a residence or other location without police back up if information available indicates weapons are present, or recent activity which is likely to pose a threat to personal safety of the employee.
D.	When a supervisor or manager becomes aware that an individual(s) within the scope of an employee’s work-related responsibility, or another employee at the work site, is considered threatening or dangerous to that employee or other identifiable employees, the supervisor or manager shall, as soon as practically possible, inform an employee(s), who has/have a work-related need to know.
E.	Each employee providing field services in the community and not exclusively in an alternative office setting with an assigned desk phone, will be provided with a fully functioning cellular phone while in the field which may be used to call for assistance from other county personnel, law enforcement, medical personnel and/or anyone else whose assistance may be required in a critical situation.
Section 18.	Housing Department Union - Management Caseload Committee
In order to provide quality services, the County and the Union recognize that Housing Specialists’ caseloads must be at a reasonable level. A Union-Management Caseload Committee will be formed consisting of representatives of the Union and the Department. The committee will work on defining reasonable caseloads and methods of achieving them. Joint recommendations will be submitted to the Director, Department of Housing for consideration. Information will be provided to the Union on a continuing basis to help monitor existing caseload policies.
JT-01
90
ARTICLE 11. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	Definition
This grievance procedure shall be applied in resolving grievances filed by employees covered by this Agreement. A grievance is defined as an allegation by an employee or a group of employees that the County has failed to provide a condition of employment which is established by this Agreement or by a departmental Policy or Procedure Manual. This grievance procedure shall not apply to matters:
1.	Over which the Civil Service Commission has jurisdiction;
2.	Covered by the Labor Relations Ordinance;
3.	Concerning Performance Reports;
4.	Concerning any other subjects, unless the subject is covered by the expressed terms of this Agreement or any portion of a departmental Policy or Procedures Manual that relates specifically to wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment.
B.	Stale Grievance
A grievance shall be void unless filed in writing within forty-five (45) calendar days from the date upon which the County is alleged to have failed to provide a condition of employment which has been established by this Agreement, or within forty-five (45) calendar days from the time an employee might reasonably have been expected to have learned of the alleged failure. In no event shall a grievance include a claim for money relief for more than the forty-five (45) day period plus such reasonable discovery period.
C.	Informal Discussion with Employee’s Supervisor
Before proceeding to the formal grievance procedure, an employee shall discuss his/her grievance with his/her immediate supervisor in private and attempt to work out a satisfactory solution. If the employee and his/her immediate supervisor cannot work out a satisfactory solution, the employee may then choose to represent himself/herself individually, or he/she may request the assistance of a representative, or a steward who has been designated pursuant to Article 2, Section 5, entitled “Stewards” in reducing to writing and formally presenting the grievance.
D.	Formal Written Grievance to Employee’s Supervisor
JT-01
91
ARTICLE 11. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (Cont=d)
If the employee chooses to formally pursue his/her grievance, he/she shall present the written grievance to his/her immediate supervisor within seven (7) working days after the date upon which the grieving employee informally discussed the grievance with the supervisor. The written grievance shall specify the Article, Section, and/or Subsection of this Agreement which is alleged to have been violated by the County, and shall specify dates, times, places and persons, and other facts necessary to a clear understanding of the matter being grieved. The immediate supervisor shall return a copy of the written grievance to the employee with his/her answer thereto in writing within seven (7) working days after receipt of the written grievance. If the grievance is not resolved at this level, the employee shall have seven (7) working days from receipt of the supervisor’s answer within which to file an appeal to the next level.
E.	Grievance to Middle Management
The Middle Manager shall have seven (7) working days in which to review and answer the grievance in writing after receipt. At the employee’s option, a grievance meeting shall be held at this level. The employee and his/her steward or representative may be present at and participate in any such meeting. If the grievance is not resolved at this level, the employee shall have seven (7) working days from receipt of the written answer within which to file an appeal to the Department Head.
F.	Grievance to Department Head
The Department Head, or the Department Head’s designee, shall have seven (7) working days in which to review, and answer the grievance in writing. Unless waived by mutual agreement of the employee or his/her representative and the Department Head or the Department Head’s designee, a meeting is required at this level and the employee and his/her representative shall have the right to be present and participate in such a meeting. The time limit at this level may be extended by mutual agreement between the Department Head, or the Department Head’s designee, and the employee or his/her representative.
G.	Waiver of Appeal Steps
If the grievance is not resolved after the immediate supervisor has answered it in writing, the grievant and the Department Head, or the Department Head’s designee, may by mutual agreement waive review of the grievance at the Middle Management level and proceed to present the grievance to the Department Head.
H.	Binding Arbitration of Grievances
JT-01
92
ARTICLE 11. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (Cont=d)
In the event that the grievance is not resolved by the Department Head, the Union may, within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the decision of the Department Head or the Department Head’s designee, made pursuant to paragraph F, request that the grievance be heard by an arbitrator. A grievance involving a letter of warning shall not be subject to arbitration.
I.	Informal Review by Labor Relations Office
Prior to the selection of the arbitrator and submission of the grievance for hearing by said arbitrator, the Labor Relations Office shall informally review the grievance and determine whether said grievance may be adjusted to the satisfaction of the employee. The Labor Relations Office shall have ten (10) work days in which to review and seek adjustment of the grievance.
J.	Selection of Arbitrator
The arbitrator shall be selected by mutual agreement between the Labor Relations Office and the grievant or his/her representative. If the Labor Relations Office and the grievant or his/her representative are unable to agree on the selection of an arbitrator, they shall jointly request the State Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a list of five qualified arbitrators. The Labor Relations Office and the grievant or his/her representative shall then alternately strike names from the list until only one name remains, and that person shall serve as arbitrator.
K.	Duty of Arbitrator
Except when an agreed statement of facts is submitted by the parties, it shall be the duty of the arbitrator to hear and consider evidence submitted by the parties and to thereafter make written findings of fact and a disposition of the grievance which shall be binding. The decision of the arbitrator shall be based solely on the interpretation of the appropriate provisions of the Memorandum of Agreement applicable to the grievance, and he/she shall not add to, subtract from, modify or disregard any of the terms or provisions of the Agreement.
The provisions for arbitration are not intended and shall not be construed to empower an arbitrator to change any condition of employment, specifically covered by the Memorandum of Agreement, or to revise, modify or alter, in any respect, any provision contained in the Agreement.
L.	Payment of Costs
JT-01
93
ARTICLE 11. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE (Cont=d)
Each party to a hearing before an arbitrator shall bear his own expenses in connection therewith. All fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne one-half by the County and one-half by the grievant.
M.	Effect of Failure of Timely Action
Failure of the employee to file an appeal within the required time period at any level shall constitute an abandonment of the grievance. Failure of the County to respond within the time limit at any step shall result in an automatic advancement of the grievance to the next step.
ARTICLE 12.	EMERGENCY
Nothing herein shall limit the authority of management to make necessary changes during emergencies. However, management shall notify the Union of any such changes as soon as possible. Emergency assignments shall not extend beyond the period of the emergency. Emergency is defined as a substantial likelihood that serious harm would be experienced unless immediate action is taken.
ARTICLE 13.	OBLIGATION TO SUPPORT
The parties agree that subsequent to the execution of this Memorandum and during the period of time said Memorandum is pending before the Civil Service Commission or the Board of Supervisors for action, neither the Union nor management, nor their authorized representative or any member of its Board of Directors will appear before the Civil Service Commission or the Board of Supervisors or meet with members of the Civil Service Commission or the Board of Supervisors individually to advocate any amendment, addition, or deletion to the terms and conditions of this Memorandum. It is further understood that this Article shall not preclude the parties from appearing before the Civil Service Commission or the Board of Supervisors nor meeting with individual members of the Civil Service commission or the Board of Supervisors to advocate or urge the adoption and approval of this Memorandum in its entirety.
JT-01
94
ARTICLE 14. AGREEMENT, MODIFICATION, WAIVER
A.	This Memorandum sets forth the full and entire agreement of the parties regarding the matters set forth herein, and any other prior or existing understanding or agreements over these matters between parties, whether formal or informal, are hereby superseded or terminated in their entirety.
B.	Except as specifically provided herein, it is agreed and understood that the parties hereto reserve the right, upon mutual agreement, to meet and confer in good faith with respect to any subject or matter covered herein or with respect to any other matters within the scope of representation, during the term of this Memorandum.
C.	No agreement, alteration, understanding, variation, waiver, or modification of any of the terms or provisions contained herein shall in any manner be binding upon the parties hereto unless made and executed in writing by all parties hereto and, if required, approved and implemented by the County Board of Supervisors.
D.	The waiver of any breach, term or condition of this Memorandum by either party shall not constitute a precedent in the future enforcement of all its terms and provisions.
ARTICLE 15.	PROVISIONS OF LAW
This Memorandum is subject to all current and future applicable Federal, State, and local laws, regulations and the Charter of the County of San Diego. All ordinances, rules and regulations enacted by the Board of Supervisors, Civil Service Commission, Labor Relations Ordinance, or other County commission or board having independent rulemaking authority shall be subject to the appropriate revisions, amendments and deletions necessary to conform with the purpose, intent and application of the provisions of the Memorandum.
If any part or provision of this Memorandum is in conflict or inconsistent with such applicable provisions of Federal, State or local laws or regulations, or is otherwise held to be invalid or unenforceable by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, such part or provision shall be suspended and superseded by such applicable law or regulations, and the remainder of the Memorandum shall not be affected thereby.
If any Article, part or provision of this Agreement will operate to withhold or prohibit the receipt of any State or Federal funds, such Article, part, or provision shall be suspended to the extent that the Article, part or provision operates to withhold or prohibit the receipt of such funds. In such instance, the County and Union will immediately meet and confer to discuss alternative proposals submitted by either party.
Wage Freeze
JT-01
95
ARTICLE 15. PROVISIONS OF LAW (Cont=d)
Should either the Federal or State government or both enact any mandatory wage and/or benefit freeze which would void, suspend or alter any provision or part hereof of this Memorandum, the County and the Union agree that at such time as the provisions of the wage and/or benefit freeze are lifted, the affected provisions of this Memorandum shall be restored as originally agreed upon retroactively to the date of avoidance, suspension or alteration insofar as allowable by law. Alternatively, should the parties mutually agree, they may jointly elect to renegotiate any provision voided, suspended or altered by such wage and/or benefit freeze.
ARTICLE 16.	PROHIBITION OF JOB ACTION
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Memorandum of Agreement to the contrary, both parties and each employee in a classification represented by the Union agree that:
A.	The unimpaired continuation of County services is of paramount importance to County residents. Therefore, during the term of this Memorandum of Agreement and for a ninety (90) calendar day period following the expiration of the term of this Memorandum of Agreement or conclusion of the full impasse process (Article IV, Sections 3 and 4, of the San Diego County Labor Relations Ordinance #8588) whichever occurs later, neither the Union nor any employee represented by the Union shall cause, authorize, engage in, or sanction any type of job action which results in less than the full and faithful performance of the duties of employment.
B.	An employee who engages in any activity prohibited in Subsection A. herein above, shall not be entitled to any wages or County-paid benefits whatsoever for the period of the job action. To effectuate this provision, the County may, subject to reasonable notification and opportunity to state, in writing, the employee’s position, make payroll adjustments in individual employee’s warrants.
C.	In addition to the administrative adjustments authorized by Subsection B. hereinabove, the County reserves the right to take appropriate disciplinary action for such job action including, but not limited to, discharge.
D.	If the Board of Supervisors, by majority vote, determines to its satisfaction, that Subsection A. hereinabove has been violated by the Union, the County may take such action(s) as it deems appropriate.
E.	The Union, its representatives, and represented County employees shall comply with the provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement and shall make every effort toward inducing all employees in this unit to fully and faithfully perform their duties. In the event of any activity prohibited by Subsection A. hereinabove, the Union, its
JT-01
96
ARTICLE 16. PROHIBITION OF JOB ACTION (Cont=d)
representatives, and represented County employees agree to take appropriate necessary steps to assure compliance with this Memorandum of Agreement.
F.	During the period referenced in A. above, the County will not take action to lock out employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17.	RE-OPENER PROVISIONS
A.	Revisions to Civil Service Rules and Procedures
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement (with specific reference to Article 14), the Union or the County agree to meet and confer with the other party upon request regarding revisions to Civil Service Rules and procedures and to reopen the following provisions of this Agreement, if necessary:
1.	Article 4, Section 1, Wages, except that no employee’s wages will be reduced as a result of revisions to Civil Service Rules.
B.	CPI-U Wage Re-Opener
In January 2005, or as soon as thereafter as the information is available, the CPI-U (San Diego) for calendar year 2004 will be obtained. If the CPI-U (San Diego) exceeds four percent (4.0%), the parties will re-open Article 4, Wages, of this Agreement on March 1, 2005. Any adjustments that result from a meet and confer process will be effective June 24, 2005.
C.	Health Insurance
The County and the Union agree to re-open Article 9, Section 2 (A) (3): County Contribution Towards Flexible Benefits Plan” during the third (3rd) year of this Agreement but no earlier than April 1, 2004.
D.	Retirement Offset Phase-In
The County and the Union agree to re-open Article 9, Section 1 (B) (2): “One-half Retirement Offset” during the third (3rd) year of this Agreement but no earlier than April 1, 2004.
E.	Classification Study
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement (with specific reference to Article 14), the Union agrees to meet and confer with the County upon request
JT-01
97
ARTICLE 17. RE-OPENER PROVISIONS (Cont’d)
regarding the results of the County-wide classification study and to re-open the following provisions of this Agreement:
1.	Article 4, Section 1, Wages, except that no employee’s wages will be reduced as a result of the Classification Study.
F.	Enterprise Resource Project (ERP) - Modernization of Business Systems
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement (with specific reference to Article 14), the Union agrees to meet and confer with the County upon request regarding matters within the scope of representation pertaining to implementation of ERP software applications and IT issues and to re-open the following provisions of this Agreement, if necessary:
1.	Article 4, Section 1, Wages, except that no employee’s wages will be reduced as a result of implementation of the Enterprise Resource Project.
G.	Health Plan Task Force
A joint union-management committee with equal representation of management and the union shall be established. SEIU, Local 2028 shall have four (4) representatives on this Task Force.
This Task Force shall be a standing committee and will meet on a mutually-agreed upon schedule (at least quarterly) to consider issues of health care delivery to employees.
This Task Force shall study activities which have the potential of limiting health plan costs without shifting costs to workers or otherwise reducing levels of benefits or quality of care. The Task Force shall develop recommendations for measures to hold insurance carriers, administrators and hospitals and physicians more accountable for controlling health care costs.
Any changes to the existing health/life insurance programs would be subject to the meet and confer process. In no event, during the term of this Agreement will there be a reduction in flex credit contribution by the County or change in benefits unless mutually agreed upon by the parties.
JT-01
98
ARTICLE 18.	RENEGOTIATION
In the event the Union desires to meet and confer in good faith on the provisions of a successor memorandum, it shall serve upon the County its written request to commence meeting and conferring in good faith for such successor memorandum. Negotiations shall begin at a time mutually agreeable to the parties.
ARTICLE 19.	IMPLEMENTATION
This Memorandum constitutes a mutual recommendation to be jointly submitted to the County Board of Supervisors. It is agreed that this Memorandum shall not be binding upon the parties either in whole or in part unless and until:
A.	The Board of Supervisors acts, by majority vote, formally to approve and adopt said Memorandum.
B.	The Board of Supervisors acts to appropriate the necessary funds required to implement the provisions of this Memorandum which require funding.
The County shall act in a timely manner to make the necessary changes in ordinances, resolutions, rules, policies and procedures to implement and conform to this Agreement.
JT-01
99
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their duly authorized representatives to execute this Memorandum of Agreement on the day of
__________________________, 2001.
FOR THE COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO:
FOR THE SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 2028, AFL-CIO, CLC (AE, CL, FS, MM, PR, PS & SS UNITS):
MADGE M. BLAKEY
Labor Relations Manager
MARY GRILLO
Executive Director
LAWRENCE R. ABELIN
Labor Relations Specialist
SHEILA GARRETT, President SEIU, Local 2028, AFL-CIO, CLC
GENE BAYSE, AE
JOAQUIN GRACIDA, AE
GARY SOBECK, AE
DIANE CATES, CL
DONNA CLARK-RICHARDSON, CL
MARGARET JOHNSON, CL
JILL JONES, CL
KATHLEEN McGLOWAN, CL
SUSIE HARGRESS, CL
JT-01
100
CAROL SAX, FS
LAURA STEVENS, FS
BARBARA WARD, FS
BOB BAKER, MM
MARTY FINK, MM
SHANNON POWERS, MM
FRANK BARNHART, PR
JULAYNE GATH, PR
CARMEN LOPEZ, PR
KIM ARELLANES, PS
DON BRONSON, PS
SCOTT HAYWARD, PS
DEBBI WILLS, PS
LAURIE EARLYWINE, SS
LAURIE ADAMS, SS
1/28/02
JT-01
101
APPENDIX “A”
(Please check the Intranet at http://cww/dhr/labor or call Labor Relations Division at (619) 531-5160)
WAGES EFFECTIVE JUNE 29, 2001 THROUGH JUNE 22, 2006
(Including special adjustments for 139 classifications effective 6/29/01, 2.0% for all classes in the Clerical Unit and certain classes in the
Middle Management Unit and Public Services Unit effective 12/14/01 and 1.5% for all classes in the Clerical Unit effective 12/14/02)
JT-01
102
JT-01
APPENDIX “B
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
103
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	CLASSIFICATION STUDY
This attests and records the agreement of the County of San Diego (County) and Service Employees International Union, Local 2028, AFL-CIO, CLC (Union) regarding a classification study requested by the Union for thirty-six (36) employees. The Union’s proposal requests that the following positions be studied:
Class Number	Title	Work Location
2700 2730	Intermediate Clerk Typist Senior Clerk	HHSA, Public Health Office, Vital Records, Rosecrans
5783	Sheriff’s Property Investigator	Sheriff’s Crime Lab
5793	Sheriff’s Property & Evidence Custodian	
2713	Sheriff’s Property & Evidence Clerk	
2700 2756	Intermediate Clerk Typist Administrative Secretary I	Sheriff’s stations located at Encinitas, Vista, San Marcos, Poway, Lemon Grove, Santee and Imperial Beach
In response to the presentations on June 19, 2001 by the Union on behalf of the employees, the County agrees to conduct a classification study to determine the appropriate classifications for these positions.
The study will be conducted by the Department of Human Resources, Classification and Compensation Division and will begin no later than sixty (60) days after the effective date of this Agreement. The study, once completed, does not guarantee a pay increase or a specific classification.
2.	TEMPORARY WORKERS
This attests to and records the agreement of the County of San Diego (County) and Service Employees International Union, Local 2028, AFL-CIO, CLC (Union) concerning issues raised by the Union concerning practices in County Departments regarding the use of temporary workers.
The County will furnish the Union data from County Departments about temporary workers. The County will prepare a report of all County temporary workers in all Departments by title. The County will review the report with the Union and discuss any impact on Bargaining Unit work.
JT-01
1
The report will be prepared as soon as practical but not later than ninety (90) days after the effective date of this Memorandum of Agreement.
3.	INVESTIGATIONS
1.	This attests and records the agreement of the County of San Diego and the Service Employees International Union, Local 2028, AFL-CIO, CLC, regarding a process to discuss and resolve concerns regarding investigations by Departments or the Office of Internal Affairs (OIA).
The Union has brought forward the issue of notification to an employee that a complaint has been filed concerning him/her. The timing of notification is at issue since good complaint investigation practices require that employees be notified at the appropriate time to avoid destruction and/or spoliation of evidence and possible retaliation against the complainant.
OIA discrimination complaint procedures call for the investigations to be completed within 60 days unless there are extenuating circumstances.
We concur that complaints or investigative reports not discussed with the employee should not be used in an employee’s performance evaluation report, and/or in any disciplinary action.
2.	Because this issue deserves careful consideration, the County and the Union agree to convene a Union/Management Committee to evaluate this matter and mutually develop a process that can be included in the Memorandum of Agreement. The Committee will begin meeting no later than thirty days following implementation of the Memorandum of Agreement.
4.	LOCATIONS APPLICABLE TO PARKING REIMBURSEMENT
The County will meet with the Union within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this Agreement to discuss the applicable locations for the parking reimbursement.
JT-01
2