3.0^55
UV-SEIU Local 925 Research Technologist 7/1/07 - 6/30/09
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON AND
SEIU LOCAL 925
(Research Technologist Bargaining Unit)
UirV-SElU Local 925
Research Technologist 7/1/07 - 6/30/09
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
AND
SEIU LOCAL 925
(Research Technologist Bargaining Unit)
ARTICLE 3
ARTICLE 4
ARTICLE 5
ARTICLES
ARTICLE 7
ARTICLE 8
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
ARTICLE 1
ARTICLE 2
PREAMBLE AND PURPOSE		1
NONDISCRIMINATION/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION	 2.1	Nondiscrimination 2.2	Affirmative Action 2.3	Sexual Harassment 2.4	Complaints	1-2
UNION MEMBERSHIP, FAIR SHARE AND DUES DEDUCTION.............................................. 2-3
3.1	Union Membership and Fair Share Fee
3.2	Dues Deduction
3.3	Indemnification
3.4	Remittance of Dues
3.5	Listing of Employees GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE......................................... 3-7
4.1	Definition
4.2	Responsibilities
4.3	Employee Grievance Rights
4.4	Time Limitations
4.5	Pay Status - Meetings
4.6	Grievance Withdrawal
4.7	Employee Representation
4.8	Prior HEPB Process
4.9	Steps of the Grievance Procedure STEWARDS.................................................... 7-8
5.1	Recognition
5.2	Steward Release Time
5.3	Designation of Stewards and Areas of Jurisdiction
5.4	Stewards in Training STEWARD TRAINING................................. 8
6.1	Release Time for Training
6.2	Notice of Training
6.3	Approval of Release Time UNION BUSINESS ACTIVITIES........................ 8-9
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME....................... 9-12
8.1	General Work Hours
8.2	Definitions
8.3	Work Day/Meal Period
8.4	Rest Breaks
8.5	Overtime
8.6	Overtime Policies
8.7	Change in Work Schedule Notification
PAGE
8.8 Language Pay	
8.9	Alternative/Flexible Schedules 8.10	Excepted Work Period Positions 8.11	Telework 8.12	Staffing Issues	
ARTICLE 9 - VACATION LEAVE	 9.1	Policy 9.2	Accrual 9.3	Scheduling 9 4 Vacation Leave Accumulation 9.5 Vacation Leave Cash Payment	12-14
ARTICLE 10 - SICK LEAVE/BEREAVEMENT LEAVE	 10.1	Sick Leave 10.2	Sick Leave Cash Out 10.3	Bereavement Leave 10.4	Definitions 10.5	Reasonable Accommodation 10.6	Shared Leave 10.7	Choice of Leave	14-17
ARTICLE 11- HOLIDAYS	 11.1 Holidays 11.2 Holiday Premium Pay	18
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE	 12.1	Leave Types 12.2	Leave Without Pay 12.3	Returning Employee Rights 12.4	Family Medical Leave 12.5	Educational Leave 12	6 Leave Due to Child Care Emergencies 12.7	Military Leave 12.8	Civil Duty Leave 12.9	Work-Related Injury Leave 12.10	Inclement Weather and Suspended Operati on	18-23
ARTICLE 13- CLASSIFICATIONS	 13.1	Classification System Changes 13.2	Notification to Union 13.3	Union Proposal of New Classification 13.4	Notification of Proposed Reclassifications	23-24
ARTICLE 14- RECLASSIFICATION	 14.1	Policy 14.2	Position Review Process 14.3	Position Review Appeal Process	24-26
PAGE
ARTICLE 15- TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT AND
TEMPORARY APPOINTMENT		26-27
15.1	To a Higher Position 15.2	Other Assignments 15.3	Temporary Appointment 15.4	Fixed Duration Appointments ARTICLE 16 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD		27-28
16.1 Definition 16.2 Probationary Period Rejection ARTICLE 17 - SENIORITY, LAYOFF, REHIRE		28-31
17.1	Seniority 17.2	Layoff and Rehire 17.3	Affirmative Action Goals ARTICLE 18 - CORRECTIVE ACTION/DISMISSAL		31-33
18.1	General 18.2	Corrective Action/Dismissal Process 18.3	Grievability/Arbitrability 18.4	Representation ARTICLE 19 - EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION		33-35
19.1	Performance Evaluations 19.2	Evaluation Forms 19.3	Employee Evaluation Information 19.4	Evaluation Process 19.5	Evaluator Training 19.6	Grievability ARTICLE 20 - EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT		35-37
20.1	Policy 20.2	Annual List of Job Classifications 20.3	Training and Development Task Teams 20.4	Information 20.5	Training and Development Programs 20.6	Release Time 20.7	Completion of Training Programs 20.8	Tuition Payment and Travel Cost Reimbursement 20.9	Training - Layoff 20.10	Education and Professional Development ARTICLE 21 - TUITION EXEMPTION PROGRAM		37
21.1 General 21.2 Release Time and Fees ARTICLE 22 - PROMOTIONS/TRANSFERS		37-39
22.1 Policy
22.2 Definitions
22.3 Application for Vacant Bargaining Unit Positions
22.4 Essential Skills
PAGE
22.5 Review
22.6 Movement Between Positions
22.7 Release Time
ARTICLE 23- HEALTH AND SAFETY	
23.1 Policies
23.2 Health Examinations
23.3 Safety
23.4 Safety Committees
23.5 Ergonomics
23.6 Workplace Review
ARTICLE 24- RECORDS	
24.1 Vacation/Sick Leave
24.2 Bargaining Unit
24.3 Personnel File
24.4 Request for Information
ARTICLE 25- TRAVEL PAY AND WORK TIME	
25.1 General
25.2 Work Time and Compensation
ARTICLE 26- POLICIES	
26.1 ContractingOut
26.2 Union Access
26.3 Assignment of Additional Duties
26.4 Personal Services
26.5 Uniforms Requirement
26.6 Legislative Briefings
26.7 Child Care
26.8 Resignation
ARTICLE 27- FACILITIES	
27.1 Meeting Facilities
27.2 Bulletin Boards
27.3 Employee Facilities
ARTICLE 28 - JOINT UNION-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE	
28.1 Committee Purpose and Membership
28.2 Meetings
28.3 Limitations
ARTICLE 29- CONTRACT DISTRIBUTION	
29.1	Cost of Printing
29.2	Distribution
29.3	New Employees ARTICLE 30 - COMPENSATION............................................
30.1	Promotion or Reclassification to Higher Salary Range
30.2	Reclassification to a Position in Lower Salary Range
30.3	Salary Schedules
30.4	Increment Increase
39-40
40-42
42
42-44
44-45
45
46
46-49
PAGE
30,5 Comparable Worth
30.6	Health Benefits
30.7	Parking/U-Pass
30.8	Career Enhancement/Growth Program
30.9	Conversion of CEGP Steps
30.10	Cost of Living Adjustment ARTICLE 31 - NO STRIKE/LOCKOUT......................... 49-50
ARTICLE 32	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES...	50
ARTICLE 33	■ SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT AND SAVING CLAUSE...................................... 50
ARTICLE 34	- DURATION................................. 51
SIGNATORIES............................................ 52-53
APPENDIX I	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS........................ 54
APPENDIX II	PAY TABLE - B4............................. 55-65
APPENDIX III	PAY TABLE-B7.............................. 66-74
APPENDIX IV	LAY OFF UNITS............................. 75-77
APPENDIX V	REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES................ 78-91
SIDE LETTER A - UNIVERSITY BUDGET COMMITTEE............ 92
SIDE LETTER B - KRONOS................................. 93
SIDE LETTER C - REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES............ 94
SIDE LETTER D - REPRESENTATION......................... 95
SIDE LETTER E - PROFESSIONAL STAFF EXEMPTIONS.......... 96-97
SIDE LETTER F - HEALTH CARE SETTLEMENT................. 98
ARTICLE 1	- PREAMBLE AND PURPOSE
This Agreement is made by and between the Board of Regents :<f the University of Washington, hereinafter referred to as the Employer, and Sevice Employees International Union, Local 925, hereinafter referred to as the Unit 11.
The Employer is the Board of Regents of the University of Washington acting through its agents, administrators, and supervisors as determined by the Board of Regents,
Provisions of this Agreement apply to those regular monthly employees who are employed at the University of Washington in classifications ncluded in the Research Technologist bargaining unit (see Appendix I), Regular temporary employees shall be covered per Appendix V.
The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth certain terms arid conditions of employment and to promote orderly and peaceful labor relatims between the parties. The parties agree that it has been and will be their mutu; n aim to promote systematic and effective employee-management coopen lion, fair and reasonable working conditions; effective methods for the promt t adjustment of differences, misunderstandings, and disputes; and dignified and 'air treatment of employees in the implementation of all policies and procedures,
ARTICLE 2	- NONDISCRIMINATION/AFFIRMATIVE L i?.TION
2,1	Nondiscrimination.
Neither the Employer nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee by reason of the following status: age, sex (exc »pt where age or sex is a bona fide occupational qualification), race or ethnic origin, color, creed, national origin, religion, disability, disabled or Vietr am era veteran, political affiliation, marital status, sexual orientation, or membership or non-membership in a union.
2.2	Affirmative Action.
(a)	Policies.
In conjunction with Federal and State Execut re Orders, the Employer and the Union agree on the need for an affirmative action approach to correct and review any inequities in Ihe employment process. The Employer shall have and impleme it an affirmative action plan which requires the Employer to make special efforts to recruit, employ, retain, train, promote, encourage career development, and transfer qualified members of groups formerly excluded, even if that exclusion cannot be tra< od to particular
discriminatory actions on the part of the Employer, and to develop, implement, and monitor affirmative action goals and timetables for hiring and/or promoting members of protected groups into job classes/categories where it has been determined that underutilization exists.
(b)	Applicable Law.
The Union and the Employer agree to abide by and support the applicable statutory and administrative laws pertaining to equal opportunity and elimination of employment inequities. In order to promote this policy, the Employer will continue its affirmative action program for qualified women, ethnic and racial minorities, persons of disability, persons age 40 and over, disabled veterans, and Vietnam era veterans.
2.3	Sexual Harassment.
No employee shall be subjected to discrimination in the form of sexual harassment, currently defined in the University of Washington Handbook (Volume 4, Part 1, Chapter 2) as the use of one's authority or power, either explicitly or implicitly, to coerce another into unwanted sexual relations or to punish another for his or her refusal, or as the creation by a member of the University community of an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or educational environment, through verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature.
2.4	Complaints.
A discrimination complaint may be filed with the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office and/or as a grievance in accordance with Article 4 of this Agreement. Employees may also file discrimination complaints with appropriate federal or state agencies. The parties agree to encourage the filing of discrimination complaints through the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office.
ARTICLE 3	- UNION MEMBERSHIP, FAIR SHARE AND DUES DEDUCTION
3.1	Union Membership and Fair Share Fee.
The Union shall fairly represent all employees covered by this Agreement. Therefore, as a condition of employment, employees who are covered under this Agreement shall, within sixty (60) days of employment, or within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this Agreement (whichever is later) either execute a union membership and payroll deduction form or a fair share payroll deduction form and shall have the appropriate fee deducted from their payroll checks. Any employee who is a member of the Union may voluntarily withdraw their membership from the Union and pay a fair
2
share fee by giving written notice to the Union within thin,. (30} days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement.
Employees who are determined by the Public Employment Relations Commission to satisfy the religious exemption requirements of 41.80,100 shall make payments to the Union ecuivalent to regular union dues and initiation fees for purposes within the program of the Unic i as designated by the employee that would be in harmony with his or her onscience.
3.2	Dues Deduction.
Upon written authorization by an individual employee, th* Employer shall provide for the semi-monthly payroll deductions of unii n dues and fair share fees which are uniformly appliec to all members in 1 hose bargaining units in which the Union is the exclusive bargaining agent
3.3	Indemnification.
The Union and each employee authorizing the assignment of wages for the payment of Union dues hereby undertakes to indem ijfy and hold the University harmless from all claims demands, suits o other forms of liability that may arise against the University for or on account of any deductions made from the wages of such employees.
3.4	Remittance of Dues.
The Employer shall electronically transmit to the Union on the first bank working day after each payday all dues and fair share fires deducted for that pay period in those bargaining units for which I e Union is the exclusive bargaining representative.
3.5	Listing of Employees.
The Employer shall provide the Union with a semi-moi rhly listing of all employees with union dues or fair share fee deductions i the designated bargaining units and a monthly listing of all employees r the designated bargaining units who terminated their employment, c1 changed their employment status, classification or work location. Thi employer shall provide this information electronically along with bargaini ig unit employee pay rates and home.
ARTICLE 4	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.1	Definition.
A grievance, within the meaning of tnis Agreement, shJJ be defined as any alleged misapplication or misinterpretation of ttin terms of this Agreement.
3
A grievant, within the meaning of this Agreement, shall be defined as an employee within a bargaining unit covered by this Agreement who alleges a grievance, the Union alleging a grievance, or the Employer under the terms and conditions of this Agreement. An individual grievant may not invoke steps three or four of the grievance procedure without authorization from the Union. Grievances involving formal counseling (Step One), final counseling or dismissal (Step Two) shall be submitted to the level of supervision having authority to act or designee.
4.2	Responsibilities.
The Union shall prevail upon all employees in the bargaining units and especially stewards to make a diligent and serious attempt to resolve complaints at the lowest possible level. The Employer, likewise, shall prevail upon its supervisory personnel to cooperate fully with the stewards and other Union representatives in the prompt resolution of any grievances that may arise.
4.3	Employee Grievance Rights.
Any employee who believes he/she has been aggrieved may personally seek relief from that condition by filing a grievance, irrespective of any supervisor's opinion of the grievance's validity. In the presentation of grievances the employees shall be safe from restraint, interference, discrimination, or reprisal.
4.4	Time Limitations.
An extension of the time limitations as stipulated in the respective steps below may be obtained by mutual consent of the parties. Failure of the employee to comply with the time limitations without a request for time extension shall constitute automatic withdrawal of the grievance. Failure of the Employer to comply with the time limitations without a request for time extension shall establish the right of the employee to proceed to the next step of the grievance procedure. For the purposes of calculating time requirements, the first day shall be the day following the day on which the employee was aware, or should have reasonably been aware of the issue giving rise to the grievance. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be included in the calculation of days except that the final day may not be on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday but will end at the close of the first working day following the Saturday, Sunday or holiday.
4.5	Pay Status - Meetings.
Meetings and discussions on the grievance held in connection with this grievance procedure shall normally be held during the University's regular business hours, and no deduction in pay status shall be made for the grievant or steward for reasonable time spent in such meetings or discussions during the employee's scheduled duty hours. Time off for employees and stewards shall be granted by supervision following a
4
request, but in consideration of job responsibilities. If the requested time off cannot be granted, the parties shall arrange for time at the earliest possible time thereafter.
4,6	Grievance Withdrawal.
A grievance may be withdrawn in writing at any time by n .itual agreement of both parties and if withdrawn shall not be resubmitted,
4.7	Employee Representation.
The Union as exclusive representative of bargaining unit employees is the responsible representative of said employees in grievancr matters,
4.8	The parties agree that decisions rendered under the pric i HEPB process shall not be determinative or precedential for any issues aised under the grievance procedure.
4.9	Steps of the Grievance Procedure.
All grievances shall be processed in accordance wi.o the following procedures. Grievances over final counseling or dismissal will begin at Step Two. For all other grievances, the parties may agrna to waive Step One. For grievances filed directly at Slep Two, the grieve-t will have thirty {30) calendar days from the occurrence of the situation, c edition or action which caused the grievant to file.
Step One: Presentation.
Within thirty (30) calendar days of the occurrence of a sit jation, condition, or action which caused the grievance, the employee(s) af'acted and/or the steward or Union representative shall present the grievance to the employee's immediate supervisor for resolution. Presentation of the grievance shall include a short written description of th; subject of the grievance and the contract clauses allegedly violated. If ne grievance is directed against the employee's immediate supervisor, the grievance may be presented to the next higher level of supervision, he parties shall attempt to meet to resolve the grievance within fifteen (11 i calendar days. The supervisor will respond within five (5) calendar days ni the meeting.
Step Two:
If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in Step One, ar d the employee wishes to pursue the matter further, said grievance shall be pul into writing on the authorized grievance form and referred to the department head or designee or to the next appropriate level of managemedl and the Labor Relations Office within fifteen (15) calendar days after I e decision from Step One, The date of alleged occurrence of the grievance shall be specified. The parties shall attempt to meet to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days following the date of written submittal. At this step the Union agrees to cite all known sections of the Agreement which
5
allegedly have been violated and to provide a copy to the Human Resources Office and Labor Relations Office. The grievant may be represented by a steward and union staff representative. The University will be represented by the appropriate management official, or designee, a representative from the Labor Relations Office and a human resources consultant, if desired by the University. The University will respond in writing within ten (10) calendar days.
Step Three. Grievance Mediation.
If a satisfactory settlement is not reached at Step Two, the grievant with authorization from the Union may submit the written grievance to the Labor Relations Office requesting grievance mediation within fifteen (15) calendar days.
Upon mutual agreement, the Employer and the Union shall request, within ten (10) calendar days, grievance mediation services of the Public Employment Relations Commission (PERC). If those services are unavailable on a timely basis, the parties shall immediately request a list of grievance mediators from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS). The cost of the mediation shall be borne equally by both parties.
Step Four. Arbitration.
If a satisfactory settlement is not reached at Step Two or Three, either of the signatory parties to this Agreement may submit the grievance to binding arbitration. Such submittal must be made within fifteen (15) calendar days following the conclusion of Step Two or Step Three. Within sixty (60) days of the execution of the Agreement, the parties agree to meet to establish a permanent panel of 3-5 arbitrators. These arbitrators shall be assigned cases by the parties on a rotating basis. If the arbitrator is not available to hear the case within sixty (60) calendar days of the decision by either party to go to arbitration, the parties will contact the next arbitrator in the rotation. If no arbitrator can hear the case within sixty (60) calendar days, the case will be assigned to the arbitrator who can hear the case on the earliest date
The appointment will be for the first eighteen (18) months of the Agreement, at which time either party may decide not to continue the appointment. If an individual arbitrator decides to remove his/her name from the panel or if one (1) or more members of the panel are not continued by either party, the parties will meet to decide whether to substitute an additional name(s).
The parties agree that the arbitrator shall have no power to render a decision that adds to, subtracts from, alters or modifies in any way the terms and conditions of the Agreement. The parties further agree that the
6
decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon all jarties. The cost of the arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties and ?ach party shall bear the full cost of presenting its own case. The arbitrate $ decision shall be made in writing and the arbitrator shall be encouraged to render the decision within thirty (30) calendar days of the close of the arbitration.
In cases where a grievance is moved to arbitration, and tl e parties did not avail themselves of Step Three: Grievance Mediation, t ie moving party shall have the unilateral right to demand a pre-arbiti axion settlement conference. These conferences shall not delay the artii ration process, and may be held with or without the presence of an arbitre tor, at the option of the moving party. In the event that an arbitrator is pre sent, the cost of the arbitrator's participation shall be borne equally by the p allies.
ARTICLE 5	- STEWARDS
5.1	Recognition.
The Employer recognizes the right of -he Union to designate a maximum of five (5) union stewards from the Research Technologis1 Nonsu pervisory and Research Technologist Supervisory bargaining uniu. Upon proper designation in accordance with Section 5.3 of this Artice the stewards shall be authorized to take up employee grievances through the grievance procedure of any SEIU Local 925 Agreement between the Employer and the Union.
5.2	Steward Release Time.
A steward who is processing a grievance in accordance v. :h the grievance procedure of any SEIU Local 925 Agreement between the Employer and the Union shall be permitted reasonable time to assist in ihe resolution of legitimate employee grievances on the Employer's properly without loss of pay or recorded work time. Time off for processing gri< "/ances shall be granted to a steward by supervision following a squest, but in consideration of job responsibilities. If permission for tin e off cannot be immediately granted, the supervisor shall arrange for lime off at the earliest possible time thereafter.
A record of steward's work time spen: on grievances or other authorized activity on behalf of the Union shall be maintained on basis mutually agreeable between the Union and the department involve i
In the event the Employer determines that the amount c work time used by any .steward on grievances or other authorized U lion activities is unreasonable, it may become a topic for mutual discus; ion between the parties.
7
5.3	Designation of Stewards and Areas of Jurisdiction.
The Union will submit to the Office of Labor Relations on a semiannual basis the names of all Union officers, stewards, their work locations, and areas of jurisdiction, Stewards shall process grievances only within their jurisdiction unless otherwise mutually agreed. In the event of redesignation of stewards, notice will be provided to the Office of Labor Relations at least two (2) working days before any such steward shall be recognized as properly designated to take up employee grievances.
5.4	Stewards in Training.
Where the Union requests in advance of a Step Two hearing that a second steward be present for training purposes, this release will be approved without loss of pay or recorded work time subject to the operational needs of the second steward's department.
ARTICLE 6	- STEWARD TRAINING
6.1	During each year of this Agreement each of the Union's stewards as designated in Article 5 of this Agreement shall be provided with eight (8) hours of release time without loss of pay to participate in steward training programs, in contract administration or duties associated with contract administration, sponsored by the Union.
6.2	The Union shall submit to the Office of Labor Relations and affected departments as far in advance as possible but at least three (3} weeks in advance the names of those stewards who will be eligible for each training course.
6.3	Time off for these purposes may be approved in advance by the employee's supervisor and will be contingent upon the supervisor's ability to provide proper work coverage during the requested time off.
ARTICLE 7	- UNION BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Employees who intend to absent themselves from work for the purpose of attending and participating in Union business functions or programs such as meetings, conventions, seminars, or to work for the Union on a temporary basis, may do so under the following conditions:
(1)	Use accrued vacation leave;
(2)	Take leave of absence without pay;
(3)	Use accrued compensatory time;
(4)	Use accrued holiday or personal holiday time.
8
The Union and/or the employee shall request leave approval fr ;m the affected employee’s immediate supervisor as far in advance as possible t it at least three weeks week prior to the planned absence for approval.
ARTICLE 8	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.1	General.
Hours of work for regular monthly employees in the barga ling units listed in Appendix I shall be established by the employing official
Overtime may be assigned outside of normally scheci led shifts and compensated in accordance with Section 8.5 and 8.6.
8.2	Definitions.
(a)	Full-time Employee. A regular monthly staff employee scheduled to work forty (40) hours per week in a seven (7) day pn iod.
(b)	Part-time Employee. A regular monthly staff employee scheduled to work a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week bi: less than forty (40) per week in a seven (7) day period. Part-time employees shall receive all benefits of employment on a pro-rat j basis, except health benefits coverage, which is determined by th:: state.
8.3	Work Day/Meal Period.
Meal breaks shall be a minimum of thirty (30) minutes, ur :iaid and on the employee's own time, provided the employee is off-dui, for that meal period. It is the Employer’s intention to provide uninterrupted meal breaks.
8.4	Rest Breaks.
Employees shall receive a fifteen (15) minute break durii :j each four (4) hours worked. It is the Employer's intention to provide ui interrupted rest breaks.
8.5	Overtime.
Work in excess of forty (40) hours in one (1) week performed by overtime-eligible employees constitutes overtime. The overtime hours worked by the eligible employees shall be compensated at a rate of 11 le and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s straight time hourly rate.
Overtime-eligible employees shall receive monetan payment as compensation for overtime worked; however, at the employee’s request, compensatory time off at one and one-half (1-1/2) tinns the overtime hours worked may be granted in lieu of monetary pay/ ent. Monetary
9
payment must be provided for any excess compensatory time accruals which exceed two hundred and forty hours (240).
Compensation paid to an employee for accrued compensatory time shall be paid at the regular rate earned by the employee at the time the employee receives such payment. Upon termination of employment, an employee will be paid for any unused compensatory time in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Use of compensatory time shall require the approval of the employing official with consideration being given to the work requirements of the department and the wishes of the employee. Compensatory time off may be scheduled by the employing official during the final sixty (60) days of a fiscal year.
Compensatory time must be used or paid for by June 30th of each fiscal year. Exceptions to this policy may be approved by University Human Resources upon written justification of the extension.
For purposes of computing overtime compensation, holidays or leave with pay during the employee's regular work schedule shall be considered as time worked.
8.6	Overtime Policies.
(a)	Whenever overtime work is required, the employing official shall determine the employees needed to work overtime on the basis of their relevant experience. Overtime shall be distributed as equitably as possible among qualified employees.
(b)	A record of overtime hours worked by each employee shall be kept by the Employer, and such record of overtime may be reviewed, upon request, by the Union.
(c)	It is intended that overtime wages for which salary payment is to be made shall be paid to the employee on the paydate following the pay period in which the overtime was earned. In no event shall such overtime payments be made later than thirty (30) calendar days from the end of the pay period in which the overtime was earned providing the payroll office has received the Exception Time Report (ETR) authorizing such payment within the time limits set by the payroll department.
(d)	Temporary Modified Weekly Schedule. By mutual agreement, individual employees and their supervisors may agree to a temporary modified weekly schedule. This schedule allows
10
employees to alter their regular daily working hou :> within a work week without generating the payment of overtime (unless the employee works beyond forty (40) hours in the err'jloyee's regular workweek). Such scheduling will not be considt red a regularly recurring alternative schedule.
8.7	Change in Work Schedule Notification.
The Employer agrees to provide a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days notice to an employee in the event of an Employer-directed permanent change in the employee's work schedule. For temporary changes in work assignment occurring within the employee's assigned work week, the Employer will provide two (2) calendar day !■ notice with the day of notification constituting the first day of notice, .-or emergency reasons, lack of work, an existing safety hazard to the em| dyee or others, or mutual agreement between the Employer and employee under Article 8.6(d), the Employer may temporarily change an employee's schedule with fewer than two (2) calendar day's notice. Temporary s defined as no longer than one (1) week.
8.8	Language Pay.
Whenever a position has a bona fide requirement for reg ilar use of more than one (1) language, or sign language (AMESLAN), or jraille, premium pay of two (2) steps above the level normally assigned ’or that position shall be paid except for those instances where the positk n is allocated to a class that specifies these skills.
8.9	Alternative Work Schedules.
Departments having continuous and/or public responsibility may establish independent work schedules in order to meet their special needs. Departments are encouraged to establish flexible work schedules and to give serious consideration to employee requests. Indivic .ial requests for flexible scheduling may be approved by the employing official, provided that such scheduling does not interfere with the effective operation of the department and shall be dependent upon such considers I ons as building accessibility and security.
8.10	Excepted Work Period Positions.
Employees assigned to excepted work period positions 'lormally do not qualify for overtime pay. However, when an employing off sial determines that the employee has been directed to work an excessive amount of hours for an extended period of time, overtime r the form of compensatory time or cash not to exceed a "time and me half (1-1/2)" basis may be approved by the University Human Resources Department. When the University creates or modifies a classificatioi such that it is excepted from overtime in accordance with the law, thr Union shall be notified in advance of implementation. This language dees not preclude
11
the Union or any individual employee from challenging the University's overtime determination in appropriate forums,
8.11	Telework.
The parties agree that the Employer may offer telework opportunities. If the Employer chooses to offer such opportunities, the Employer may enter into direct discussion with the affected employee(s) regarding the components of a written telework agreement. Such agreements shall be between the affected employee(s) and the department. Upon request, the Employer shall meet and confer with the union regarding the agreements. The agreements will address the treatment of work time in the event of equipment failure.
8.12	Staffing Issues.
Staff are strongly encouraged to bring concerns about staffing issues to the attention of their department. Local 925 can also request that the Office of Labor Relations set up a Joint Labor Management meeting for the particular department. The Union can also place on the agenda of any Labor Management meeting the issue of staffing in particular departments/units at the University. The University will facilitate a discussion at the Labor Management Committee.
ARTICLE 9	- VACATION LEAVE
9.1	Policy.
To the degree possible vacation leave shall be scheduled in accordance with the preference of the employee.
9.2	Accrual.
Employees will accrue vacation leave during the new hire probationary period, but may not use vacation leave until completion of the probationary period. The current accrual schedule for full-time employees (prorated for part-time), to be credited monthly, is as follows:
During	Paid Vacation Days Per Year
1s* year	12
2nd year	13
3 rd year	14
4th year	15
5th year	16
6th year	17
7th year	18
8th year	19
9th year	20
12
10th year
11th year
12th yearor more
21
22
23
9.3 Scheduling.
(a)	The annual vacation schedule for use of vacatic i leave in each department shall be established in the existir :j departmental manner if adequate or in the following manner.
(1)	Twice each year, on or about April 1 ai d October 1, a vacation request sheet shall be circulated b; the department to the bargaining unit employees. Each employee shall indicate his or her preferences of a vacatic time period. In the event that two (2) or more employees r :;quest the same vacation period and supervision must limi the number of persons who may take vacation leave at ::ne time due to work requirements, preference shall be determined by the following method: A number equal to one ( ) point for each month of unbroken departmental service shall be added to a number equal to one (1) point for each mi nth of unbroken University service and the employee with the greater number of points shall be given preference.
(2)	Supervision shall post the vacation schedu by May 1 and November 1, which shall remain in iTfect for each succeeding six (6) months; that is, June 1 th1 :>ugh November 30 and December 1 through May 31, respeci vely.
(b)	Employees may make supplemental vacation rei nests (requests made outside the provisions of 9.3(a) at any time However, such supplemental requests shall not take precedenc •• over requests scheduled in accordance with 9.3(a). Individual vacation periods may be changed at any time by mutual agreement between the employee(s) concerned and supervision; however, a no case shall an employee’s scheduled vacation interfere witl ■ the necessary work of the organization, the determination of whi< i shall rest with supervision.
An employee who makes a supplemental vacatioi request will be notified whether the request is approved or । enied within a reasonable period of time, but in no case more thiun fourteen (14) calendar days after the supplemental vacation request is submitted, (c) Any bargaining unit employee who may transfer ir lo a department shall alter his/her preferred vacation period for that /ear if in conflict with a previously established vacation schedule foi :hat department
13
and the affected employees and department are unable to mutually resolve the conflict.
(d)	Vacation Denial. When an employee's vacation cannot be approved, the supervisor shall schedule the employee's vacation at the next earliest date requested by the employee and deemed possible by the supervisor. In the event that the University cancels an employee's scheduled vacation, leaving no time to reschedule such vacation before the employee's maximum balance will be reached, the employee’s vacation balance will be permitted to exceed the allowable maximum and the employee will continue to accrue vacation for a period of up to six (6) months in order to allow rescheduling of the employee's vacation.
(e)	Holiday Rotation. Vacation requests filed in accordance with 9.3(a) for the week including Thanksgiving and the weeks including Christmas Day and New Years Day shall be granted on a rotating basis. The rotation will begin with the most senior person (seniority shall be determined by the method contained in 9.3(a)(1) above, and shall proceed in that order until all staff wishing to take vacation leave during those holiday periods have done so. No employee shall be granted more than one (1) of the aforementioned weeks in a single year, unless there are no other interested employees and the department is able to grant the request based on operational needs.
9.4	Vacation Leave Accumulation.
An employee may accumulate a vacation balance, which normally shall not exceed two hundred and forty (240) hours. An employee may elect to accrue in excess of two hundred and forty (240) hours but must receive approval to use the excess balance prior to the next anniversary date or lose those hours accrued in excess of two hundred and forty (240).
9.5	Vacation Leave Cash Payment.
Any permanent employee who either resigns or retires, is laid-off or is terminated by the University shall be entitled to accrued vacation pay.
ARTICLE 10	- SICK LEAVE/BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
10.1	Sick Leave.
(a)	Accrual. Full-time employees (prorated for part-time) accrue eight (8) hours credit for each month of completed regular monthly service.
14
(b)	Sick Leave-Use. Sick leave shall be allowed an employee under the following conditions. The Employer reserves th ■■ right to require medical verification or appropriate proof wher sick leave is requested for any reason listed below. The Employer will not make unreasonable requests for sick leave verification.
(1)	Because of and during il.-ness, disability or injury which has incapacitated the employee from performing equired duties.
(2)	By reason of exposure of the employee 'O a contagious disease during such period as attendance on duty would jeopardize the health of fellow employees or he public.
(3)	Because of emergencies caused by seriou; illness or injury of a family member as defined in 10.4, fifteen (15) years of age and over that require the presence of I 'ie employee to provide immediate necessary care of the present or to make arrangements for extended care. The Vii s President for Human Resources may authorize sick leave ise as provided in this subsection for other than family mergers as defined in 10.4. The applicability of "emergency,"1 lecessary care" and "extended care" shall be made by the V e President for Human Resources.
(4)	To care for a child (as identified in 10.4) i ider the age of eighteen (18) with a health condition that requires treatment or supervision, or to make arrangements for extended care.
(5)	Because of illness or injury of a family meml ier as defined in 10.4 who is a person of disability ar I requires the employee’s presence to provide short-term are or to make arrangements for extended care.
(6)	To provide emergency child care (as identify 1 in 12.6(e) and 10.7) for the employee's child (as defined in 0.4). Such use of sick leave is limited to three (3) instances per calendar year not to exceed twenty four (24) hours (h ::urs prorated for part-time), unless extended by the Dire.tor of Human Resources Operations ard shall be used on " as specified in Article 12.6(e) and 10.7.
(7)	Because of the death of a family member a; defined in 10.4 that requires the assistance of the empl ;yee in making arrangements for interment of the deceased
15
(8)	For personal medical, dental, or optical appointments or for family members1 (as defined in 10.4) appointments when the presence of the employee is required, if arranged in advance with the employing official or designee.
(c)	Sick leave may be granted for condolence or bereavement.
(d)	Use of Vacation Leave or Compensatory Time Off for Sick Leave Purposes. An employee who has used all accrued sick leave may be allowed to use accrued vacation leave and/or compensatory time off for sick leave purposes when approved in advance or authorized by the employee's departmental supervisor.
(e)	Restoration of Vacation Leave. In the event of an incapacitating illness or injury during vacation leave, the employee's supervisor may authorize the use of sick leave and the equivalent restoration of any vacation leave otherwise charged. Such requests shall be in writing, and a medical certificate may be requested.
(f)	No Abuse of Sick Leave. Both parties agree that neither the abuse nor the arbitrary denial of sick leave will be condoned. The Employer and the Union agree to work cooperatively toward the resolution of mutually identified problems regarding the use of sick leave.
10.2	Sick Leave Cash Out.
Eligible employees may elect to receive monetary compensation for accrued sick leave as follows:
Only in January of each year an employee whose sick leave balance at the end of the previous year exceeds four hundred and eighty (480) hours may elect to convert the sick leave hours earned in the previous calendar year, minus those hours used during the year, to monetary compensation. No sick leave hours may be converted which would reduce the calendar year-end balance below four hundred and eighty (480) hours. Monetary compensation shall be paid at the rate of 25% and shall be based upon the employee's current salary. All converted hours will be deducted from the employee's sick leave balance.
Employees who separate from University service due to retirement or death shall be compensated for the unused sick leave accumulation from the date of most recent hire in a leave eligible position with the State of Washington at the rate of 25%. Compensation shall be based upon the employee's wage at the time of separation. For the purpose of this section, retirement shall not include vested out of service employees who leave funds on deposit with the retirement system.
16
Former eligible employees who are re-employed within th ee (3) years of their separation from service shall be granted all uni :;ed sick leave credits, if any, to which they are entitled at time of separati, m.
10.3	Bereavement Leave.
An employee shall be granted three (3) days of bereav sment leave for each death of an immediate family or household membi r as defined in Section 10.4. Bereavement leave beyond three (3) days may be approved in accordance with Article 10.1(c) baseo on individual circumstances, such as relationship of the employee ti the deceased family member, employee responsibility for making funer il arrangements and/or distance of travel out of the area,
10.4	Definitions.
Family Members. Individuals considered to be members ;f the family are the employee’s spouse or same or opposite sex domesl:: partner, child, parent, grandparent, grandchild, sister or brother. I1 also includes individuals in the following relationships with the employe’s spouse or domestic partner: child, parent and grandparent. “Child" i so includes any child residing in the employee’s home through fof::er cere, legal guardianship or custody. Family members include thoipersons in a “step" relationship.
10.5	Reasonable Accommodation Due to Disability.
An employee who is unable to perform the work of then position due to mental, sensory or physical incapacity may be separated from service after the institution has made good faith efforts to reasonably accommodate the employee's disability in accordance with applicable state and federal law.
10.6	Shared Leave.
Employees shall participate in the University's shared Ie wed program in accordance with state law and University policy as iet forth in the Administrative Policy Statements
45.10.
10.7	Choice of Leave.
In accordance with RCW 49.12 and WAC 296-130, employees shall be allowed to use any or all of their choice of sick leave or o ner paid time off to care for a family member, as defined in 10.4, who has :i serious health condition or an emergency condition. Employees shall nut be disciplined or otherwise discriminated against because of their excise of these rights.
17
ARTICLE 11	- HOLIDAYS
11,1 Holidays,
The present holiday schedule includes the following eleven (11) days with pay.
New Year's Day
Third Monday of January
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
Third Monday of February
President's Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day Labor Day
Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Day Personal Holiday*
Holidays are prorated for part time employees.
‘Employees who are employed four (4) months or more shall be entitled to a Personal Holiday during each calendar year. This day may be used in the same manner as any other holiday.
Use of the Personal Holiday shall be requested in writing. When the Holiday has been approved in advance and is later canceled by the University, the employee shall have the option of rescheduling the day. If the employee cannot be scheduled off, holiday premium pay will be paid.
The Employer may designate other days to be observed in lieu of the above holidays.
11.2 Holiday Premium Pay.
Any employee required to work on a holiday or any portion thereof shall receive their regular eight (8) hours of holiday pay (prorated for part-time) plus premium pay at time and one-half (1-1/2). Compensatory time may be granted in lieu of monetary payment.
ARTICLE 12	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE
12.1	Leaves of absence may be granted for the following reasons:
1.	Family Medical Leave
2.	Work-related injury or illness leave
3.	Military training leave
4	Military service leave
5.	Civil duty leave
6.	Educational leave
7.	Leave for government service in the public interest
18
8.	To accommodate annual work schedules of employees । mcupying cyclic year positions
12.2	A leave of absence without pay may be allowed for condi' ons applicable for leave with pay, e.g., vacation, personal or family illness, or parental leave which may include infant or child care.
12.3	Returning Employee Rights.
Employees returning from an authorized leave of absence shall be employed in the same position or in another position in th? same class in the same geographical area and organizational unit, providing that such re-employment is not in conflict with other Articles in this A :|reement.
12.4	Family Medical Leave.
(a)	Federal Family Medical Leave Act. Consistent v.uth the federal Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, an employee v. no has worked for the state for at least twelve (12) months and i>:»r at least one thousand two hundred and fifty (1250) hours durinc the twelve (12) months prior to the requested leave is entitled to up to twelve (12) workweeks of leave per year for any combination ol 'he following:
1.	parental leave to care for a newborn or newl', placed child as defined in 10.4; or
2.	personal medical leave due to the employee's own serious medical condition that requires the employee 5 absence from work; or
3.	family medical leave to care for a family met ber, as defined in 10.4, who suffers from a serious medic; condition that requires on site care or supervision by the er iployee.
(b)	The twelve (12) week FMLA leave entitlement is available to the employee each calendar year, provided that eligibly requirements listed in (a) are met.
(c)	The University will continue the employee's existinemployer-paid health insurance benefits during the period of le;:ve covered by FMLA. If necessary, due to continued perso al medical or continued approved parental leave, the employee may elect to use eight (8) hours of accrued applicable paid leave fc continuation of employer paid health insurance benefits for up to ciur (4) months, including any portion of leave covered by the FMLA
19
(d)	Parental leave. Parental leave shall be granted for the purpose of bonding with the employee's natural newborn, adoptive, or foster child. Parental leave may extend up to four (4) months, including time covered by the FMLA, during the first year after the child's birth or placement. Leave beyond the period covered by FMLA may only be denied by the Employer due to operational necessity. Such denial can be grieved beginning at Step Two of the Grievance Procedure (Article 4). Extensions beyond four (4) months may be approved by the Employer.
Parental leave may be a combination of the employee's accrued vacation leave, sick leave up to ten (10) days, personal holiday, compensatory time or leave without pay, the combination of which may be determined by the employee.
If parental leave is taken as leave of absence without pay, the employee may apply eight (8) hours of accrued paid leave per month during the first four (4) months of parental leave to provide for continuation of employer paid health benefits. Periods of parental leave covered by the FMLA shall be deducted from the four (4) month period of eligibility to intersperse paid leave.
(e)	Disability Leave. Disability leave of absence shall be granted for a reasonable period to an employee who is precluded from performing her/his job duties because of a disability.
Employee requests for disability leave shall be submitted in writing and the disability and recovery period shall be defined and certified by a licensed health care provider, subject to a second opinion at the Employer's expense.
Disability leave may be a combination of the employee's accrued sick leave, vacation leave, personal holiday, compensatory time, and/or leave of absence without pay, the combination of which may be determined by the employee. If disability leave is taken as leave of absence without pay, the employee may apply eight (8) hours of accrued paid leave per month during the first four (4) months of disability leave to provide for continuation of employer paid health benefits. Periods of disability leave covered by the FMLA shall be deducted from the four (4) month period of eligibility to intersperse paid leave.
(f)	Serious health condition leave consistent with the requirements of the FMLA shall be granted to an employee in order to care for a family member, as defined in 10.4, who suffers from a serious
20
medical condition that requires on site care of si cervision by the employee.
The employer may require tnat such leave bi- supported by certification from the family member’s health care novider. Serious health condition leave covered by the FMLA may be taken intermittently when certified as medically necessan
Employees will use accrued paid leave prior tc going on leave without pay. Sick leave may be used as described n Article 10.1(b). An employee on leave without pay under this section (serious health condition) may qualify for receipt of shared leave. The employer shall maintain employer paid health benefits during periods of leave covered by the FMLA.
(g)	Disability and serious health condition leaves whe covered by the FML A may be taken intermittently when necessary
(h)	The employee shall provide the employer with nt I less than thirty (30) days notice before the leave is to begin excel ■! that if the need for the leave is unforeseeable thirty (30) days n advance, the employee shall provide such notice as is practicable.
12.5	Educational Leave.
Leave of absence without pay may be granted for edui ational leave for the duration of actual attendance in the educational progr; m.
12.6	Leave Due to Child Care Emergencies.
For leave required to care for an ill child see Article 10.1(1 (6).
(a)	Absence due to childcare emergencies as defined ihall be charged to one (1) of the following:
(1)	Compensatory time;
(2)	Vacation leave;
(3)	Sick leave;
(4)	Personal holiday;
(5)	Leave of absence without pay.
(b)	Use of any of the above leave categories is dependent upon the employee's eligibility to use such leave. Accrue I compensatory time shall be used before any other leave is used.
(c)	Use of vacation leave, sick leave, and leave of abs ence without pay for emergency child care is limited to three (:instances per
21
calendar year of each type of leave not to exceed twenty four (24) hours each, with the hours prorated to part-time employees.
(d)	The employee upon returning from such leave shall designate in writing to which leave category the absence will be charged. For the purpose of this section, advance approval or written advance notice of vacation leave, personal holiday, and/or leave of absence without pay shall not be required.
(e)	A child care emergency is defined as a situation causing an employee's inability to report for or continue scheduled work because of emergency child care requirements such as unexpected absence of regular care provider, unexpected closure of the child's school, or unexpected need to pick up child at school earlier than normal.
12.7	Military Leave.
Military leave will be treated in accordance with applicable state and federal law.
12.8	Civil Duty Leave.
Leave of absence with pay shall be granted employees to serve on jury duty, as trial witnesses or to exercise other subpoenaed civil duties. Employees shall reimburse the institution for all compensation received for such civil duty, exclusive of expenses incurred.
12.9	Work-related Injury Leave.
An employee who sustains a work-related illness or injury shall, upon written request and proof of continuing disability, be granted leave of absence without pay for up to six (6) months without loss of layoff seniority or change in annual increment date. Leave without pay exceeding six (6) months may be granted at the option of the employing official.
Employees who suffer a work related injury or illness that is compensable under the state worker's compensation law may select time loss compensation exclusively, leave payment exclusively or a combination of the two (2). Employees taking sick leave during a period in which they receive workers' compensation under the industrial insurance provisions shall receive full sick leave pay, less any industrial insurance payments for time loss during the sick leave period.
12.10	Inclement Weather and Suspended Operation.
When an employee is absent from work due to inclement weather, the employee shall have the option of charging the absence to accrued compensatory time, vacation leave or leave without pay.
22
If the University determines it is advisable due to emergen.:? conditions to suspend the operation of all or any portion of the institute i the following will govern:
When prior notification has not been given, employee; released until further notice after reporting to work, snail receive a minir rum of four (4) hours pay for the first day. The following options shall be made available to affected employees not required to work for the balanc< of the closure: vacation leave, personal holiday, accrued compensatr iy time, leave without pay or up to ninety (90) days tc make up work tirrn lost. Make up time worked by overtime-eligible full time employees is ca culated at time and one-half (1-1/2).
ARTICLE 13	- CLASSIFICATIONS
13.1	The parties agree to defer discussions regarding the class: ncation system changes promulgated by the Personnel System Reform Act of 2002 (PSRA). The parties agree that discussion regarding tli-st classification system is a permissive subject of bargaining and this A-:; eernent is not intended to alter that understanding.
The discussions will commence no later than sixty (60) days following DOP’s implementation of Phase One of the statewide -avision to the classification system (Phase One is scheduled to be implemented on or about July 1, 2005).
During this period of discussion, the current classifies :ions with their respective pay levels are hereby incorporated into tins contract as Appendix I. The existing class specifications for these jobs are considered in effect upon the execution of this contiact.
13.2	(a) Should the University decide to create, eliminate, >r modify class specifications which does not involve a major remructure to the overall classification system, it will notify the Unioi in advance of implementing the action. Notification will include the bargaining unit status of the classification and, for a newly crea bd or modified classification considered to be in the bargaining unit, a proposed salary. Notification will occur at least thirty (30) days in advance of any proposed implementation date. At the Unioi's request the University will meet and confer with the Union ovk-r its proposed action.
(b)	An employee occupying a position reallocated to class with a lower salary range maximum due to a class being created, abolished or modified will retain the salary of their 'ormer position
23
until reaching the top of the range of the former position, and then will be frozen until the new class pay range catches up.
An employee(s) occupying a position reallocated to a class with a higher salary range due to a class being created, abolished or modified will receive the same step in the new range as the employee(s) held in the previous range. The periodic increment date of the employee will remain unchanged.
(c)	Within thirty (30) calendar days following implementation of the University's decision to create or combine classifications per 13.2, or modify class specifications for bargaining unit positions, the Union may file an appeal with the Classification Review Hearing Officer selected under Article 14 of this contract, to determine if the salary assigned to the classification is appropriate.
13.	3 The Union may, at any time, propose a new classification with appropriate justification. These proposals will be reviewed by the Compensation Office of Human Resources which will accept, reject or modify any proposal. This review is not grievable.
13.	4 The University agrees to notify the Union of any proposed reclassifications of occupied bargaining unit positions into non-bargaining unit positions.
ARTICLE 14	- RECLASSIFICATION
14.1	Policy.
Positions shall be allocated to the appropriate classification. Requests to reclassify should be based on a belief that the duties, responsibilities, or qualifications of a position are such that it is inappropriately classified.
14.2	Position Review Process.
(a)	The University, employee, or employee representative may request that a position be reviewed when the requesting party believes that the basis of its request has become a permanent requirement of the position. Employees and employee representatives may not request that a position be reviewed more often than once every six (6) months.
(b)	The request must be complete and in writing on forms provided by the University. Requests may be submitted to Human Resources or to an employee's direct supervisor or department. Any party may submit additional information, including the names of individuals, which the party believes is relevant to the position review.
24
(c)	An employee may request that a representative b 1 present as an observer at meetings with the University reviews' scheduled to discuss the request for position review. At the empl wee’s request a portion of such meetings shall be conducted in a ( liet and private location, away from the work station.
(d)	The University reviewer will investigate the position and issue a written response to the employee or employee representative within sixty (60) calendar days from receipt of the compl ;--ed request. (A completed request is defined as the employee completing all employee portions of the re-classification forms.) 71 e response will include notification of the class and salary assumed when the position is reallocated, or notification of the reasons the position does not warrant reallocation when the request i? not approved. Reclass requests may be submitted at either the d<'loartmental level or directly to Human Resources Reclass requests submitted at the departmental level must be forwarded to Human Resources with thirty (30) calendar days.
(e)	The effective date of allocations or reallocations initiated by the University shall be determined by the University. T m effective date of a reallocation resulting from an employer or employee representative request for position review will be established as the 1s or the 16th of the month which precedes thi:. date that the completed request was filed with Human Resources or the employee’s direct supervisor or department, which dale is earliest. The date of receipt must be appropriately documeniud.
(f)	An employee may request reconsideration followii g receipt of the University's determination. Requests for reconsi: oration will not hold the timeframe for filing an appeal under Article 14.3.
14.3	Position Review Appeal Process.
If the Union wishes to appeal the decision of the Universe/, it may appeal to the Classification Review Hearing Officer within thir v (30) calendar days following the date of the University's written respor ,.e. The Hearing Officer shall be jointly selected by the parties within thirty 30) days of the execution of this contract and shall serve for a minimum of one (1) year from the date of selection. At that time the parties mi-' choose to reappoint the Hearing Officer or select a different Hearing- Officer who will also serve for a minimum of one (1) year from date c-i selection. The Hearing Officer shall hold hearings or. a quarterly basis >nless there are no appeals to hear or the parties agree to pend any c :;en appeals. All materials considered in the position review shall be submitted to the Hearing Officer prior to the hearing and neither party will ;ubmit evidence
25
at the hearing that was not submitted during the position review. The Hearing Officer shall endeavor to hold multiple hearings each day, and shall issue a concise decision which shall be final and binding, The Hearing Officer shall have no authority to alter the terms and conditions of this contract. Employees may be represented at the hearing and will be released from work, with no loss of pay to attend the hearing. The Hearing Officer's fees and expenses shall be shared equally by the parties.
ARTICLE 15	- TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT AND TEMPORARY APPOINTMENT
15.1	To a Higher Position.
The employing official may temporarily assign a regular monthly employee the duties and responsibilities of a higher-level class for up to one (1) year. Such appointments shall be made in increments of no more than six (6) months.
The employee shall be paid at the salary step which represents at least a two (2) step increase over the present salary. Such increase shall be effective the first day of the assignment when approved as higher-level duties and responsibilities by the Director of Human Resources Operations.
15.2	Other Assignments.
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, duties assigned an employee shall be consistent with the overall class concept of the employee's job classification.
15.3	Temporary Appointment.
Temporary appointment may be made only to (a) perform work in the absence of an employee on leave for more than six (6) consecutive months or (b) perform work which does not exceed one thousand fifty (1050) hours in any twelve (12) consecutive month period. At the conclusion of a temporary appointment a permanent employee shall have the right to revert to his/her former position or to an equivalent position. No temporary appointment shall take the place of employees laid-off due to lack of work or lack of funds.
15.4	Fixed Duration Appointments.
Appointments for a fixed duration may be made for assignments initially intended to be for more than one thousand fifty (1050) hours, but for no more than twelve (12) consecutive months. Consecutive appointments that total more than twelve (12) consecutive months will not be made for the same assignment. The filling of fixed duration appointments will be determined by the University. Individuals hired under this section will
26
receive written notification of the maximum length of the n opointment and the eligibility for benefits. Conclusion of the appointmei : will be at the discretion of the University, including -ermination of appinntment prior to its originally intended expiration date, and will not be sublet to Articles 4 (Grievance Procedure) and 17 (Seniority, Layoff, Rehire of the contract. Fixed duration appointments will not be made to eplace current bargaining unit employees nor to de the work of any oargaining unit employee who has been laid off. Fixed duration appointrns its may only be used to fill leave-of-absences and/or temporary projects; "iey may not be used to fill permanent positions. lime worked in < fixed duration appointment will count towards seniority for employees wl o are appointed to a regular monthly position represented by Local 925 w :hout a break in service. Employees on a fixed duration appointment wi1 be considered non-bargaining unit applicants when applying for ugular monthly bargaining unit positions.
(a)	An individual appointed to a Fixed Duration Appointment who is hired into the same job, in the same unit through open recruitment will have their Fixed Duration Appointment months of service apply toward their probationary period for that position.
(b)	Employees recruited into positions under sectio 1 (a) who have worked in the Fixed Duration Appointment six (6) months or longer will be considered to have completed their probati nary period and all months of service under that Fixed Duration Appointment (including extensions) will count toward their senior ly.
ARTICLE 16	- PROBATIONARY PERIOD
16.1	Definition.
The probationary period is the initial six (6) month period > : employment in a class following appointment of a nonpermanent emplo.ee. Permanent employees at the University of Washington shall not oe required to complete another probationary period. Any paid or unpaid leave taken during the probationary period will extend the period for a 1 amount of time equal to the leave. Weekends and holidays will count in fue calculation of the length of probationary period extensions. By mutual agreement, the probationary period for selected classes may be established for a period in excess of six (6) months but not to exceed twelve (12) me -hs.
Employees in probationary status will earn seniority fron their initial date of hire but may not exercise seniority rights until cc np let ion of the probationary period. Probationary employees are not eligible for layoff or rehire rights.
27
16.2	Probationary Period Rejection.
An appointing authority may reject an employee who has not completed a probationary period. Upon request by the employee, a meeting to explain such action shall be held with a representative of the Employer. At the employee's request a representative of the Union shall attend such meetings. Such rejection is not subject to Article 4 of this contract.
ARTICLE 17	- SENIORITY, LAYOFF, REHIRE
17.1	Seniority.
Seniority is defined as the continuous length of service in calendar days with the University from the most recent date of hire. Service of less than full time shall be considered full time. Time spent on leave of absence without pay or on layoff shall not be included in computing seniority except for cyclic year positions, but does not constitute a break in service. Permanent employees who are veterans or their unmarried widows/widowers shall have added to their seniority the veteran's active military service to a maximum of five (5) years credit.
Seniority shall be lost following an employee’s resignation, termination for cause, failure to return from a leave of absence, failure to accept two (2) full recall offers (offers for the same pay, FTE status and shift as the position from which the employee was laid off), or expiration of rehire rights.
Employees who enter into the bargaining unit from other positions at the University of Washington shall be credited with layoff seniority for all seniority earned in the State classified service while employed at the University. Employees who enter into the bargaining unit from other state agencies and institutions of higher education shall earn layoff seniority from the first day of coverage under the collective bargaining agreement. Seniority for benefit accrual purposes shall include all time credited to the employee up to the date of entering into the bargaining unit. Unused sick and vacation leave credits of permanent status employees changing employment between bargaining unit and non-bargaining unit positions shall move with the employee.
17.2	(a) Layoff and Rehire. Whenever it becomes necessary for the University to reduce its workforce due to a lack of work, lack of funds or reorganization, the University shall use the following procedure in determining which employees shall be laid off. The University shall not lay off bargaining unit employees in lieu of disciplinary action. The University shall make a concerted effort to re-employ bargaining unit members on the rehire list. Bargaining unit members on the rehire list are eligible to take all Computing & Communications and Training &
28
Development courses on a space available basis i pon payment of designated fees.
(b)	Layoff. In a given class within a lab group, layoff sha be by seniority, least senior person first as long as the remaining em;: loyees possess the essential skills (defined as the minimum qualifies :ions listed in the job description for the classification and any oecific position requirements) to perform the necessary work. The Jniversity shall, with a copy to the Union, identify the positions to L; abolished and the employee(s) to be effected and shall notify em: loyees in these positions not less than twenty (20) working da'ts prior to the abolishment of the positions, pay the employee .ages in lieu of notice, or combine pay and notice. The notice mall include the effective date of the layoff and a reference to the c nployee's rights under this Article.
The least senior employee in a classification shall '3ve the right to replace the junior employee in a lower classificatic in series if the employee being laid off possesses the essential kills as defined above to perform the necessary duties, and the employee to be replaced is in the lab group and nas less seniority, more than one (1) bumping option exists, the classification in the p^y range closest to the position be abolished will be used.
The opportunity to replace a junior employee within ie lab group will require an FTE status within .2FTE of the FTE status of the person in the position being abolished (e.g. if a .8FTE position is being abolished the incumbent is eligible to replace an individual in a .6 -1.0FTE position). If there is no opportunity for the person in the position being abolished to replace another employee within .2FTE, s/he shall have the right to bump junior employees "/ith a lower FTE status than their own, subject to the provisions herein. Employees shall have no bumping rights per Article 17 within six |6) months from the effective date of a Final Counseling Action plan.
In accordance with the above, the incumbent in position to be abolished will be given up to three (3) working day; to determine if s/he wants to exercise his/her bumping rights.
(c)	FTE Reduction. An employee in a position that is nc abolished but is reduced in FTE status and who will remain benefit eligible after the reduction will have the choice of staying in the reduced position and going on the rehire list for the position and FTE sibtus held by the employee immediately prior to the reduction or ex< ■ cising available layoff rights under 17.2(b). The employee must exneise this choice within three (3) working days of the reduction notice.
29
(d)	Rehire. Employees identified for layoff will be placed on an eligible rehire list(s) designated by the employee for twenty-four (24) months. In addition to the rehire list for the classification and FTE status from which the employee was laid off, employees identified for layoff may be on the following rehire lists:
1.	For positions of a lower FTE status in the classification from which the employee was laid off,
2.	For positions in other classifications in which the employee previously held permanent status; and,
3.	Lower classes in a series under 1 and 2 above.
The University will refer an employee from the designated rehire list(s) for any open positions in the bargaining unit for which the laid off employee possesses the essential skills. Employees referred from the rehire list(s) who possess the essential skills needed for a vacant position will be offered the position prior to the University offering it to any other applicant. The two (2) most senior employees on a rehire list(s) who possess the essential skills needed for a vacant position will be advised that they are being referred and the Employer will offer the position to either of those employees. Job requests for positions for which there are employees on rehire list(s) may not be withdrawn solely to avoid hiring laid-off employees.
The Employer shall provide copies of rehire lists to the Union on a quarterly basis, or more frequently pursuant to a request by the Union.
(e)	Rehire Trial Period. Employees placed into vacant positions from the rehire list will serve a three (3) month rehire trial period. During the rehire trial period either party may, at its sole discretion and without resort to the grievance procedure, initiate return to the rehire list. Time spent in a rehire trial period will not count toward the twenty-four (24) month rehire list period. The three (3) month rehire trial period will be adjusted to reflect any paid or unpaid leave taken during the period.
(f)	Removal from List. Removal from the rehire list(s) will occur for any of the following circumstances:
1.	If placement does not occur within twenty four (24) months,
2.	If the employee refuses two (2) offers of placement for a
position having the same pay, FTE status and shift as the position from which the employee was laid off,
30
3.	If the employee was placed into two (2) vac =? nt positions for which the employee has failed to completi the rehire trial period,
4.	If the employee accepts an offer of lacement and completes the rehire trial service period,
5.	Employees who reject one (1) offer of place nent from a list for a position of a lower FTE status thar -hat which the employee held immediately prior to layoff w removed from that list,
6.	Employees who reject one (1) offer of place nent from a list for a position in a classification other than :hat from which the employee was laid off will be removed fn m that list.
(g)	Benefits and Temporary Services. Employees on tl is rehire list who follow the rules prescribed by Temporary Servian; will be given priority to referral to temporary positions and can receive employer paid health benefit coverage if they meet the eligibi y requirements as determined by the state.
(h)	Rehire Wages and Increment Elate. When employees are rehired from layoff status, the periodic increment date a; :l annual leave accrual date will be reestablished and extended b an amount of time in calendar days equal to the period of time sp nt on the rehire list prior to rehire.
Employees placed from the rehire list into position:; with the same salary range held at the time of layoff shall be placed at the same step in the range held at the time of layoff. Employees placed from the rehire list into positions with a lower salary rar ;ie than held at the time of layoff shall be placet in a salary step ni i.arest to, but not in excess of, the salary held at time of layoff.
(i)	Rehire List Crossover. Employees within a Local ; 25-rep resented bargaining unit may, in accordance with this Artich i, be placed on the rehire list for positions in which they have pre . >ously achieved permanent status in another Local 925-re presentee bargaining unit.
17.3 Affirmative action goals may be considered at any point uring the layoff or rehire process.
ARTICLE 18	- CORRECTIVE DISCIPLINARY ACTION/DI!:! MIS SAL
18.1	The parties will follow the "Corrective Action/Dismissal F' ocess" outlined below. No employee shall be subject to the process excei 4 for just cause. The process will be considered to incorporate the concef of progressive
31
action while providing a positive method for improvement rather than punitive action. The University will determine the specific step at which the process begins based on the nature and severity of the problem.
18.2	Corrective Action/Dismissal Process.
The University wilt make clear when formal or final counseling is being conducted.
Informal Counseling - Informal discussion or counseling between employee and immediate supervisor. Supervisor will follow-up in writing, which will include simple action plan, if necessary.
Formal Counseling - Formal counseling (may involve administrative personnel other than the employee's immediate supervisor) including the development of a written action plan. The action plan will identify specific problem areas, performance objectives, suggestions for remedying, and a timeframe for improvement.
Final Counseling - Final counseling (may involve administration other than the employee's immediate supervisor) including action plan discussion and revision, where appropriate. A decision-making period of one (1) day of paid time away from the work site for the employee to consider the consequences of failure to follow the action plan may be used at this step. If the Employer decides to provide a decision-making day, the employee will be given a list of expectations and problem statements prior to the day taking place.
Dismissal - Prior to dismissal, a pre-determination meeting will be scheduled to give an employee an opportunity to make his/her case before the final decision is made. The employee has the right to have a Union representative present at the pre-determination meeting.
Demotion - When mutually agreed, demotion may be considered at any step of the Process.
18.3	Grievability/Arbitrability.
Informal counseling may not be grieved. Formal counseling may be grieved through Step Two of the grievance procedure only. Final counseling and dismissal may be grieved through every step of the grievance procedure beginning at Step Two.
18.4	Representation.
Employees shall be notified orally or in writing that upon request they shall be entitled to have a representative present when formal counseling, final counseling or dismissal is occurring. Employees have a right to a meeting with management whenever corrective action is issued. Attendance of a
32
representative shall not delay the disciplinary pro* ijss unduly as determined by the Employer. All parties shall make eve { effort possible allow for Union representation without unduly delaying th* process.
ARTICLE 19	- EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE EV ALU JION
19.1	Performance evaluations shall be performed at least anni. ally. Evaluations shall be based on job related performance factois. Performance evaluations shall not be used to initiate personnel actions such as transfer, promotion of corrective disciplinary action, however evalu xxions may serve as supporting documentation for personnel act* ns. Employee participation in the development of evaluation materials ; id rating factors is encouraged.
19.2	Evaluation Forms.
(a)	Performance evaluation forms will at a minimum h; *e:
(1)	A description of the job related factors pon which the evaluation is based. These will include:
i. quality of work (e.g. competence, acc racy, neatness, thoroughness),
ji. quantity of work (e.g. use of time, olume of work accomplished, ability to meet schedi ies, productivity levels),
jii. job knowledge (e.g. degree of techi real knowledge, understanding of job procedures and me nods), and
iv. working relationships (e.g. cooperatioi and ability to work with supervisor co-workers, stud* nits, and clients served).
(2)	Provision for employee comments.
(3)	Provision for employee's signature acc< npanied by a Statement that "Employee signature means tl । at the employee has seen and is aware of the content of thi evaluation, but does not necessarily mean that the employe* agrees with the evaluation content."
(4)	Provision for the evaluator and reviewer*; signature, and reviewer comments.
(b)	The performance evaluation form may be supplen >mted with other forms and/or information used to support ie employee's
33
evaluation. Upon request, the employee may review any written materials used by supervision to prepare the evaluation.
19.3	Employee Evaluation Information.
(a)	Upon appointment to a position the employee's supervisor will provide the employee with a copy of:
(1)	The class specification for the position
(2)	The position's job duties.
(b)	Written performance expectations shall be provided to the employee in sufficient time to allow the employee to meet the work expectations (normally within sixty (60) calendar days after appointment to the position). The Employer will provide at least sixty (60) calendar days notice to employees prior to the evaluation when modifications that substantively alter performance expectations are made. Minor modifications that do not substantively alter performance expectations require no notice.
19.4	Evaluation Process.
(a)	The supervisor will communicate with the employee about performance problems as they occur.
(b)	The purpose of the evaluation meeting is to review, discuss, and if appropriate, modify the evaluation. The employee shall have an opportunity to discuss the proposed evaluation with the evaluator and to provide a written response.
(c)	A copy of the completed form, signed by all appropriate individuals, will be provided to the employee upon request.
(d)	Performance evaluations shall be retained in the departmental file for no more than three (3) years.
(e)	The evaluation shall be reviewed and signed by the employee's second level of supervision or management designee.
19.5	Evaluator Training.
The Employer shall make available training opportunities for evaluators regarding the Employer's performance evaluation program and shall, upon request, share and discuss the contents of such training programs with the Union.
34
19.6	Grievability.
The procedural aspects of the employee performance evaluation process are grievable only through Step Two of the Griev; nee Procedure. Procedural aspects include alleged violations of this cont net or University policy. Disagreement over the supervisory marks assigr ?d to a specific employee shall not be grievable and will be addresser via the actions described in 19.4(b).
ARTICLE 20	- EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
20.1	Policy.
The Employer reaffirms its commitment to an on-goinc system of staff development and training. Employer shall maintain an employee training and development plan. The objective of this plan sh;; I be to provide opportunity for the development o,: the potential occupational and professional ability of each employee in order to (1) meet institutional needs, (2) to make the most effective and economic t >e of employee resources in accomplishing institutional goals, and 3) to enhance employees' career advancement oppoitunities.
20.2	The University shall annually provide a list of job classifications reflecting the number of regular monthly positions and number died in the past calendar year. This information shall be on file in thi. Recruiting and Candidate Services Office and the respective area Hi. nan Resources Offices.
20.3	Training and Development Task Teams and Committees.
The Union shall be invited to designate an employee ^presentative to participate in each University Training and Developmer1 task team and committee convened to address topics relevant to the oargaining unit. Such topics may include career advancement, career oaths, potential training needs and courses, and program crediting in he employment process. Task teams and committees shall be chaired by :he Training and Development Manager or designee. Employee represc tatives shall be granted release time to attend task team and committer meetings which are conducted during regular business hours.
20.4	Information.
The Employer shall, upon written request, provide the Un on with copies of the institution’s training and development plan and the an ual report of the achievement of training objectives.
20.5	Training and Development Programs.
It is intended that supervisors will encourage employee? to participate in the various training and development programs as .irovided for by
35
Executive Order 52 in order to maximize their job performance and to increase their promotional opportunities.
When the Employing Official requires an employee to acquire new skills the supervisor will identify appropriate sources of training and provide training in accordance with 20.8.
20.6	Release Time.
Release time for training for employees accepted for training and development programs shall be in accordance with Executive Order 52.
20.7	Completion of Training Programs.
Completion of training programs will be considered in evaluating an employee's application for transfer or promotion when certification of completion has been indicated by the employee. The Employer will review courses offered through Training and Development, Computing and Communications, and the Women's Information Center in order to identify courses which satisfy requirements for regular monthly staff positions. The Employer will determine the amount of credit appropriate to the training course(s).
Crediting of completed training programs towards minimum qualifications shall be determined by the Employer. Currently, successful completion of the Fiscal Management Certificate Series is equivalent to six (6) months of budget/fiscal experience and successful completion of the Supervisory Certificate Series is equivalent to six (6) months of supervisory experience.
20.8	Tuition Payment and Travel Cost Reimbursement.
If a supervisor requires an employee to receive training all fees and related costs will be paid by the employing department. If attendance in such courses requires use of the employee's personal vehicle, the employee will be reimbursed at the University's travel rates applying at the time. If other transportation must be taken, the employee will be reimbursed for all transportation costs. Required attendance in courses which are outside of regular working hours and which are work related or meet an identified institutional need is considered "paid time training" and constitutes time worked.
20.9	Training - Layoff.
Employees on layoff status shall be eligible to participate on a space available basis in regularly scheduled Training and Development programs.
36
20.10	Education and Professional Development.
The University encourages all departments/grants ■ ith individuals employed in this bargaining unit to provide as much suppc t for Continuing Education as budgets will permit. The University recogri zes the crucial contribution made by all bargaining unit members, and :hat Continuing Eiducation assists staff in increasing the level of skill and mowledge they bring to their chosen fields.
ARTICLE 21	- TUITION EXEMPTION PROGRAM
21.1	In addition to those noncredit programs offered by tbs Training and Development Office, eligible employees may participate ir -he University’s tuition exemption program as authorized by applicabk state law and University policy set forth in the Administrative Policy J:i.atements 22.1. Subject to operational needs and management discretion supervisors will make a good faith effort to allow the use of flex time for employees who wish to take a class during their scheduled shift.
21.2	Flelease Time and Fees.
When an employee is required to take a tuition exerr it class by Ihe [Employer, associated expenses and release time will ie provided per Article 20.8.
ARTICLE 22	- PROMOTIONS/TRANSFERS
22.1	Policy.
It is the policy of the University to encourage job at ,ancement and promote from within. It is the responsibility of each employee seeking promotion or transfer to provide the Employer with comi lete information regarding the employee's skills and qualifications relative to the position sought. The Employer will make the application proi ass, necessary submittals and the essential skills of the vacant p sition clear to prospective applicants.
22.2	Definitions - For the purpose of this Article the following d finitions apply:
Promotion - Movement to a position with a different cla; sification with a higher salary maximum.
Transfer - Movement to a position with the same salary nr ■ ximum or same classification.
Voluntary Demotion - Movement tc a position with :i lower salary maximum, where the position is attained through the empi yment process.
37
This section does not apply to employees who demote as the result of corrective action.
22.3	Notice that applications are being accepted for vacant bargaining unit positions will be published by the Employer and will be made available in places intended to reach bargaining unit employees for a minimum of seven (7) days prior to the closing of the application period. The University may limit the scope of the posting area if applications only from within the posting area are accepted.
22.4	The Employer will determine if applicants possess the essential skills required of the position. Essential skills are the minimum qualifications listed in the job description for the classification and any specific position requirements. The Employer will refer all current bargaining unit applicants possessing the essential skills prior to referring any non-bargaining unit applicants. Where the skills, abilities and experience of the vacant position applicants are considered equal, the Employer will offer the position to a bargaining unit applicant. In accordance with applicable law, affirmative action goals will be considered when filling vacancies.
At least one (1) bargaining unit applicant per job requisition, who is a regular monthly employee and who possesses the essential skills, shall be among those granted an interview for bargaining unit positions. Which bargaining unit applicant(s) the Employer chooses to interview shall not be grievable. On or after July 1, 2008 either party may notify the other in writing that they wish to discontinue this agreement related to guaranteed interviews for bargaining unit applicants.
22.5	Applicants from within the bargaining unit determined not to possess the essential skills for the vacant position may seek a non-grievable review of the assessment through the Human Resources Office. Applicants from the bargaining unit who possess the essential skills but are not offered the position may request an explanation, written or oral, as to why the position was not offered.
22.6	Movement between positions will comply with the following:
Movement Between Positions Within the University - Employees who transfer, promote or voluntarily demote shall serve a trial service period during the first six (6) months of a new appointment. During the first six (6) weeks of the trial service period, promotional employees have preemptive rights to their former position if the position still exists, and transferred or voluntarily demoted employees may return to their former position if it still exists and is vacant. After the first six (6) weeks but during the six (6) months, employees who do not meet supervisory expectations shall have the option to be placed on the rehire list. Paid or unpaid leave taken during
38
tne six (6) month trial service period shall extend the It igth of the trial service period by the amount of paid or unpaid leave ta .en. Employees who return to their former position, whether returning < 'lectly or being placed from the rehire list, will not be required to serve ar additional three (3) month trial service period per 17.2(e).
Movement from a Non-Universify Position to a Bargainin Unit Position -Employees will be required to serve a probationary period -er Article 16.
22.7	Employees shall receive reasonable p aid release time f< ■ job interviews (which may include sitting for an examination) at the University, Such time must be approved in advance by the supervisor subjec to unit staffing needs.
ARTICLE 23	- HEALTH AND SAFETY
23.1	Policies.
It is the Employer's intent to make reasonable and prop -r provisions for the maintenance of appropriate standards of health and safety within the workplace. The Employer shall comply with applicable Fi deral and State health and safety legislation and regulations and has designated the University's Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Department to advise and monitor compliance with such standards.
When it is established through medical documentation ihat a disabling condition or physical limitation prohibits continued per1 irmance of the employee's assigned duties, the Employer will attemi : to assist the employee through reassignment, transfer, or reconfiguratimi of job duties.
Employees who believe that working conditions present । hazard to their health should first alert their supervisor. All employees an- encouraged to contact Environmental Health and Safety to report hazard ;us conditions. If a supervisor or Environmental Health and Safety dedan s a work site to be hazardous and unfit for work, effected employees ma, be assigned to alternative work sites until the hazardous condition is rectified. If assignment to an alternative work site is not possible ar I the supervisor decides to send the employees home, those employee; sent home will receive their regular pay for all time the employee is sche: tiled to work on the day of the incident. For all subsequent days the empl yee(s) may use accrued leave as appropriate.
23.2	Health Examinations.
The Employer shall provide at no cost io the employee, si ich medical tests or health examinations as may be required as a condition f employment.
39
23.3	Safety.
All work shall be performed in conformity with applicable safety standards. Employees are encouraged to immediately report any unsafe working conditions to their supervisor. No employee shall be disciplined for reporting any such condition nor be required to work or to operate equipment when he/she has reasonable grounds to believe such action would result in immediate danger to life or safety until the condition has been reviewed by a Union Steward and a higher level of supervision. If the matter is not resolved satisfactorily, the supervisor or employee may request a decision from the University's Department of Environmental Health and Safety or the Department of Labor and Industries.
23.4	Safety Committees.
Bargaining unit employees shall be appropriately represented on any organizational health and safety committees for areas in which they are employed, as detailed in Administrative Policy Statement 10.11. Any departmental or unit committee also dealing with health and safety issues in work areas shall appropriately involve bargaining unit employees. It shall also be appropriate for either party to raise health and safety concerns at the Joint Union/Management Committee.
23.5	Ergonomics.
The Employer shall maintain a separate section in the Administrative Policy Statements that reference the ergonomic requirements of WAC 296-62-051. Further Ergonomic guidelines shall be referenced on the Environmental Health and Safety department website: www.ehs.washington.edu.
23.6	Workplace Review.
The parties recognize that there are several elements in a worksite which may affect individual health, comfort and productivity. The employer shall conduct routine hazard assessments of any worksite that may contain health hazards as required by WAC. The employer shall provide awareness education to help reduce identified hazards. Employees may also request a workplace review by the employing department and employees shall be given the results of the review.
ARTICLE 24	- RECORDS
24.1	Vacation/Si ck Leave.
Each department will keep vacation and sick leave records and make them available to employees upon request.
40
24.2	Bargaining Unit
A current list of names, classifications, and departments if all bargaining unit employees will be provided annually to the Union at o. !;t.
24.3	Personnel File.
Upon written request by an employee to their area human esources office (official personnel file) or department manager (departmental file), the employee or employee's representative shall have access to the employee's official or departmental personnel file for ri'new. Upon the employee's request, the employee may receive copies of iny materials in the file (requests for reasonable numbers of copies will b provided at no cost to the employee; employees may be charged a fee lor requests for large numbers of copies). Prior to such review the Direi for or designee may remove any letters of reference which were chained through assurances of confidentiality to a third party. Such lettr s shall only be used for the purposes of hiring and/or promotional applies ;on.
E-mployees shall be provided a copy of all adverse matei ;jl placed in the official file at the time the material is included in the file.
(a)	Information shall be retained as long as it has a re; .conable bearing on the employee's job performance or upon the efficient and effective management of the institution.
Adverse material or information related to employ* .* misconduct or alleged misconduct which is determined to be fa se and all such information in situations where the employee ias been fully exonerated of wrong doing shall be promptly destre.'ed.
(b)	Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, a; institution may retain information relating to employee miscon uct or alleged misconduct, if:
(1)	The employee requests that the information = retained; or,
(2)	The information is related to pending lega action or legal actions may reasonably be expected to resu 1
The employee shall have the right to have placed in his/h< ■' own personnel file a statement of rebuttal or correction of information co* :ained in the file within a reasonable period of time after' the employee bee mes aware that the information has been placed in the file.
24.4	Requests for Information.
The Employer shall make available to the Union, upon written request, records and reports regarding personnel issues, such as I :ime addresses,
41
employment data and reclassification requests, concerning those classifications in the bargaining units, provided that this shall not require the Employer to disclose any records not subject to disclosure under the Public Disclosure Act of the State of Washington or to maintain or assemble any data which it would not otherwise assemble for its own use, Information shall be provided electronically where feasible.
ARTICLE 25	- TRAVEL PAY AND WORK TIME
25.1	General.
Any employee required to travel to a place of work other than his/her regular official duty station shall be reimbursed for travel costs if eligible, in accordance with University of Washington Administrative Policy Statements, Section 70.
25.2	Work Time and Compensation.
(a)	When employees are required to report for work to their official duty station before traveling to a temporary official duty station, work time computation shall commence at the time of reporting to the regular official duty station.
(b)	When employees are required to travel on a nonscheduled work day they shall be paid in accordance with Article 8 and University policy. For purposes of determining hours of work, the work day shall commence at the time the employee leaves his/her official duty station and end upon arrival at the temporary duty station. The employee's domicile shall be his/her official work station when travel commences from that location if less than time calculation from the official duty station.
ARTICLE 26	- POLICIES
26.1	Contracting Out.
The University will not contract out work which results in the layoff of bargaining unit employees who are employed prior to the time of the execution or renewal of the contract. The University will provide the Union thirty (30) calendar days notice prior to the implementation of any contract allowed under this Article.
26.2	Union Access.
Upon prior notification to management, authorized Union staff representatives shall be permitted to enter the Employer's premises and facilities at reasonable times for the purpose of representing employees in
42
personnel matters consistent with the Union's certificate i as exclusive bargaining representative. It is understood that any si. h visits which require a meeting with an employee will be restricted to lie. nonworking time of the employee unless otherwise authorized by । tanagement or provided for elsewhere in this Agreement, and that tl jre will be no interference with an employee's work assignment.
26.3	Assignment of Additional Duties.
An employee who is permanently assigned the dutie of a position vacated by attrition, layoff, or other reasons, in addition ! ■ his or her job duties, shall have the right to meet with his or her supei .isor to discuss the situation. If the initial meeting between the sup< ■ visor and the employee does not result in a satisfactory conclusion, thi employee may request a subsequent meeting which a representative 01 the Union may attend.
26.4	Personal Services.
It is inappropriate and contrary to University policy to asski i any employee coffee making, related food service duties, or other task, of a personal nature. The exception is when such an activity is based nn a bona fide departmental requirement.
26.5	Uniforms Requirement.
Uniforms required to be worn by the employee shall t "> provided and replaced by the Employer at the Employer's expense. The naintenance of uniforms shall be the responsibility of tne employee. Phot Io any decision by a department head to purchase uniforms, employees ir Iheir respective departments shall be given an opportunity to consult with 'ieir department head regarding the color and style of uniform to be worn, ‘he department head will give serious consideration to the wishes of it' ! employees in making a decision.
26.6	Legislative Briefings.
The Union President or designee shall be invited to a :end legislative briefings conducted by the Employer.
26.7	Child Care.
As a major employer, the University of Washington rec qnizes that the family life of its employees has a significant impact upon heir work lives. The Employer currently sponsors daycare within l ie community, subsidizes care for mildly ill children (as defined in 10. n, and funds a position for coordinating child care services. The Employer will notify the Union so that the Union may have an opportunity to prov Ie input prior to any University action being taken to modify child care pro 'iams which are currently being sponsored by the University.
43
Information regarding availability of resources to facilitate employee child care is available in the Reference Stations and/or the Work/Life Services office.
Other articles in this Agreement which address child care and parenting needs include Article 8.9 (Alternative Work Schedules), Article 10.1 (Sick Leave) and Article 12 (Leave of Absence).
26.8	Resignation.
An employee has the right to withdraw his/her resignation within twenty four (24) hours, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after submitting the resignation. Employees may only withdraw one resignation per position held. The Employer may permit withdrawal of a resignation at any time.
ARTICLE 27	- FACILITIES
27.1	Meeting Facilities.
The Union shall be permitted to use the Employer's facilities for meetings provided advance notice is given to the Employer, appropriate space is available on the date requested, and meetings are held in accordance with the Employer's policy on this subject.
27.2	Bulletin Boards.
(a)	Space shall be made available to the Union on bulletin boards, in those areas where bargaining unit members work or frequent, for the posting of notices and information pertaining to official business of the Union Such posted material is to be signed by a Union representative.
(b)	If it is established that adequate space is not available at a convenient location, the Union may provide for and have installed a bulletin board at its own expense, provided the size and location of said bulletin board shall be mutually agreeable to the Union representative and the Employer.
27.3	Employee Facilities.
(a)	Restrooms and attendant facilities shall be provided as required by the State of Washington Department of Labor and Industries. Dressing rooms and/or lockers shall be provided to employees in those classifications where a change of clothing is required by the Employer.
44
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
(b)	The adequacy of employee facilities, including sanitary supply dispensers for female employees, shall be a pnoer subject for discussion by the Joint Union-Management Commii lie,
ARTICLE 28	- JOINT UNION-MANAGEMENT COMM (TEE
28,1	Committee Purpose and Membership.
A Joint Union-Management Committee is established to irovide a forum for communications between the two (2) parties and to cu ial with matters of general Union/Employer concern. The committee's .motion will be limited to an advisory capacity and shall not include any lecision-making or collective bargaining authority.
Committee membership shall consist of two (2) bargaining unit employees and a Union staff representative and three (3) Employer ri uresentatives to include the Labor Relations Officer or designee.
The Employer will discuss with representatives of the -nion significant changes affecting institutional conditions of employ nent generally affecting bargaining unit employees sufficiently in advano1 of the targeted implementation date of said changes so that reasor -ible alternative proposals can be adequately considered by the Um -n-Management Committee. Diversity, child care and tuition exemption Shu I be considered appropriate subjects for the Joint Unior Management Con nnittee.
28.2	Meetings.
At least one (1) week's notice shall be given to member1 of any agreed upon meeting and the agenda. Committee meetings shall ormally be held during University business hours and at a mutually agreeable time and date. Employee members shall experience no loss in s; lary for meeting participation; however, meeting times are not construed i: s work time and no overtime shall be claimed or paid for meetings after led outside the employee members' regular working hours.
28.3	Limitations
Committee meeting topics shall be limited to subjects of < । oup rather than individual concern, and the committee shall not dis< ,iss grievances properly processed under Article 4 o! the Agreement. J urther, it is not intended that this Article obligate in any way either part :o negotiate on personnel matters covered in this Agreement or to alter, imit, restrict, or reduce prerogatives of either party otherwise provided in I 'is Agreement.
45
ARTICLE 29	- CONTRACT DISTRIBUTION
29.1	The University and the Union shali share the cost of printing the Agreement for present and new employees in the bargaining units.
29.2	Distribution.
(a)	The Employer shall include a copy of the Agreement at each Reference Station and shall provide a copy to new employees in the bargaining units.
(b)	The Union shall provide a copy of the Agreement to present employees in the bargaining units. The Employer shall allow distribution through campus mail.
29.3	New Employees.
(a)	The Employer shall provide to the Union, at least monthly, a list of new employees in the bargaining units, including the employee's name, classification, department, and mail stop.
(b)	The Employer will distribute to each new employee in the bargaining units, with a copy of this Agreement, a letter from the Union. Such letter will be provided to the Employer by the Union and the contents of the letter shall be mutually agreeable.
(c)	A bargaining unit member designated by the Union shall be granted paid release time to attend new employee orientation and/or new employee coffee hours scheduled by the University. Such release time will be subject to the operational needs of the department.
ARTICLE 30	- COMPENSATION
30.1	Upon promotion or reclassification from a Local 925 position to another Local 925 position with a higher salary range, the affected employee shall be placed on the salary step of the new range which reflects a minimum of a three (3) step increase. The new periodic increment date shall be the first of the current month for effective dates falling between the first and fifteenth of the month and the first of the following month for effective dates falling between the sixteenth and the end of the month.
30.2	An employee occupying a position that is reclassified to an existing class with a lower salary range shall be placed in the salary step in the new range which is closest to the current salary, provided such salary does not exceed the top step of the new salary range.
46
30.3	Salary Schedules.
(a)	The salary schedules shall be incorporated into I is Agreement as Appendices II and III.
(b)	All schedules will contain two (2) Career Enh' mcement/Growth steps as described in Section 30.8.
30.4	Employees shall continue to receive increment increase; at the rate of two (2) steps each twelve (12) months unless they are new hired at Step A, in which case they will receive a two 12) step increase ■: six (6) months then two (2) steps annually thereafter. The University at its discretion, may approve additional increment increases at any timi Such additional increment increases will not change an employee's f medic increment date.
30.5	The University and the Union affirm their commitment t> the principles of comparable worth by implementing any state-mandated omparable worth adjustments.
30.6	Health Benefits. For the life of the Agreement, bargain ig unit members shall be governed by the results of healthcare coalitic i bargaining, per ROW 41.80.020, with respect to health insurance benefit and premiums.
1)	The Employer will contribute an amount equJ to eighty-eight percent (88%) of the total weighted average c the health care premium for each bargaining unit employee elig tie for insurance each month, as determined tty the Public Er oloyees Benefits Board annually for benefits in calendar year 2 08 and calendar year 2009. respectively.
2)	The Employer will pay the entire; premium costs f< • each bargaining unit employee for basic life, basic long-term dis ibility and dental insurance coverage.
3)	The Employer will participate in the State of Wasl ngtcm’s set aside of $20,000,000 in the public employees’ and r drees’ insurance account to be used only for the benefit of V a Employer and proportionately for represented and non-represei ed employees in the event the health care costs increase mon than the trends assumed under this Agreemen.; and this accour will not be used to expand benefits or to reduce the averager nployee share of
47
medical insurance premium cost for the total weighted average of the health care premium to less than twelve percent (12%).
30.7	Parking/U-Pass.
The Union agrees that during the life of this agreement, the University may apply changes in transportation policy, including adjusting parking and U-pass fees and criteria for assigning parking spots, to the bargaining unit without the obligation to bargain with the union. The union may raise issues and concerns about the University's parking program at Joint Labor Management Committee meetings or at ad hoc Labor Management meetings. The union shall have a standing seat on the University committee(s) that work on transportation and parking issues.
30.8	Career Enhancement-Growth Program.
The University will continue its Career Enhancement-Growth Program. The program will reward employees whose development of skills, increased productivity, or assumption of higher-level duties results in service enhancements or efficiencies for the department in which the employee works.
Steps N & 0 (Appendix II) and Steps R & S (Appendix III) will be attained solely through the Career Enhancement-Growth Program and will not be based on length of service.
Employees in every classification covered by this Agreement will be eligible for the program. Employees are eligible to receive a Career Enhancement-Growth step any time after they have been at the last automatic increment step in their pay range for a minimum of one (1) year Employees are eligible for the subsequent Career Enhancement/Growth step beginning one (1) year after receiving the previous step.
There will be no minimum or maximum number of employees who may receive Career Enhancement-Growth steps. There will be no minimum or maximum amount of money the University will spend on the Career Enhancement-Growth Program. Decisions about Career Enhancement/ Growth steps shall be made within sixty (60) days of supervisory/ managerial/professorial recommendations.
The Career Enhancement-Growth program will not be a substitute for reclassifications. Reclassifications will take priority over receiving Career Enhancement-Growth steps such that if an employee qualifies to receive a Career Enhancement-Growth step but could otherwise be reclassified, the employee will be reclassified and will not simultaneously receive the Career Enhancement-Growth step. Career Enhancement/Growth steps shall be considered in calculating salary adjustment associated with promotion and upward reclassification, but in no instance shall a salary in
48
a new position be at a step higher than the highest autc natic increment step tn the new pay range, except for lateral transfers w ere there is no mutual agreement not to exceed the highest automatic it rrement step in the new pay range.
The University agrees to regularly issue University- /ide reminders promoting the value of this program.
Career Enhancement-Growth program in its entirety is n t subject to the grievance procedure (Article 4).
30.9	Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA).
All pay tables covered by this Agreement shall be modifiei as follows:
1)	Effective July 1, 2007 a 3.2 percent across-the-boarci wage increase. Continuation of the 1.6 percent across-the-board wa.ie increase from July 1. 2006.
2)	Effective July 1,2008 a 3.0 percent across-the-boarci wage increase.
30.10	If market conditions determine that an upward adjustmer in one or more economic areas is essential to maintain competitiveness both the Union and the Employer shall be given the opportunity to aise issues of competitive compensation and propose market adjustmi-rits. When the Employer proposes adjustments, the Union shall be givm at least thirty (30) days notice in advance of the implementation date o negotiate the adjustment.
ARTICLE 31	- NO STRIKE/LOCKOUT
The Employer and the Union acknowledge that this Agreement ।" ovides, through the grievance procedure and through other administrative n medies, for an orderly settlement of grievances or disputes which may an ;e between the parties. Accordingly, the parties agree that the public inter st requires the uninterrupted performance of all University services and to the end pledge to prevenl or eliminate any conduct contrary to that objective. Therefore, during the life of the Agreement the Employer shall not lock out any of the iimployees as a result of a labor dispute or grievance or disputes on personnel ratters nor shall the Union condone or authorize a work stoppage, work slowdc 'in, or any other curtailment of work in the bargaining units.
Should the employees engage in any unauthorized concerts action, a Joint Union/Management Committee shall immediately convene and "hall continue to meet until the dispute is settled, and the employees involved ! tall immediately
49
return to work and continue working. Any employee who refuses to perform his/her work may be subject to disciplinary action.
There will be no strike or lockout regarding any matters pertaining to the contents of this Agreement.
Any action of the Employer in closing the University during a general strike, riot, or civil disturbance for the protection of the institution, its property, or its employees shall not be deemed a lockout.
The University of Washington continues to recognize the right of any bargaining unit member not to engage in work-related activity which would reasonably and immediately jeopardize her/her personal safety. This includes a decision not to come to work when a picket line has been established by another labor organization.
ARTICLE 32	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The Employer through its designated management personnel or agents has the right and responsibility, except as expressly modified by this Agreement, to control, change, and supervise all operations and to direct and assign work to all working forces. Such rights and responsibilities shall include by way of illustration but shall not be limited to: the selection and hiring, training, discipline and discharge, classification, reclassification, layoff, promotion and demotion or transfer of employees; the establishment of work schedules; the allocation of all financial and other resources; the control and regulation of the use of all equipment and other property of the Employer. The Employer shall determine the methods, technological means and qualifications of personnel by and for which operations are to be carried out. The Employer shall take whatever action as may be necessary to carry out its rights in any emergency situation.
Application of this Article shall not preclude the use of the grievance procedure as established in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 33	- SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT AND SAVING CLAUSE
Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or provision of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof; provided, however, upon such invalidation the parties agree immediately to meet and negotiate such parts or provisions affected. The remaining parts or provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
50
ARTICLE 34-DURATION
This Agreement shall become effective July 1, 2007 and remain i force through June 30. 2009. Automatic renewal shall extend the terms of thii Agreement for one year at a time, unless either party serves the other with writte notice at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the anniversary date of its inter to negotiate a new Agreement. Should notice be served, bargaining shall begin rithin thirty (30) calendar days following the date of the notice for the purpose < negotiating a new Agreement.
51
Executed this date /u-v Z 2Q0/ BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON 	 Weldon Ihrig Executive Vice President Approved as to form this date: __ 4112.) ri_	 l	1 	 Robert W. Kosin Assistant Attorney General State of Washington		for and on oehalf of SEIU LOCAL 9 d 		 -	Kim Cook President UlX; isF	 Michael Laslett Higher Educate i Division Director Allison Bigelow	' Respiratory Ca UW Medical Center Anne Lawson Equjpnipn^m/E 'tony 'Cameron Rose sr /t^b MedicineZ W MedicgCSented/- Umi tuJA Carol Harris-D; <is 1 Labor & Delive , UW Medical Center Chris King	'' 7 Educational Oi ieach Christian Skoo imith Applied Physic Laboratory Dely Gasataya Patient Finans Seivices, Northgate
•••••••••••••
Don Burch
UW Medical Center
Erica Howard
Radiology, UW Medical Center
Jeannie Munro
Ur^lo^Stimc. UW Medical Center ( /—
Jose Mayorga L/._
Interpreter Services
Harocrview Medical Center
_____
ZjCdi Morns
^Department of Pathology > zl
X	-
Katey Thomason
Physical Plant South
Linda Boyce-Si th Children & Tee Clinic
Harborview Me ical Center
Natalie Zomalt
Cardiac Diagne tic Services
UW Medical Cf de?/	/ ,
7 ,.7	? /
Patricia Humph ay (J	/ 'j
Department ol orhmunicatiOHS
/ ------------------------- Sham Ratty 'J '/
Interpreter Sen Ses Harborview Me; pal Center
Tom Small
Anatomic Path ogy
UW Medical C< 'ter
APPENDIX I JOB CLASSIFICATIONS RESEARCH TECHNOLOGIST BARGAINING UNIT
JOB CODE	CLASSIFICATION	PAT' ABLE	SALARY RANGE
8380	HISTOLOGIC TECHNICIAN 1	B7	40
8381	HISTOLOGIC TECHNICIAN 2	B7	49
8379	HISTOTECHNOLOGIST	B7	59
7859	RESEARCH TECHNOLOGIST 1	B4	35
7860	RESEARCH TECHNOLOGIST 2	B4	40
7861	RESEARCH TECHNOLOGIST 3	B4	44
54
■■■■■■■■■•••(•••■■■■■•■■••••■a
University of Washington - Contract Classified
SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
Payscale Table B4 - Effective Joly 1, 2007
Range	A	<- - STEP - - >											RA	CEGP Steps N	O	
		B	C		D	E	1’	G	H	I	J	K	!_											
14	$1,443	$1,477	$1,512	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976
$/yr	17.316	17,724	18,144	18,528	18,972	19,404	19.848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712
cr < L.s	8.33	3 52	8 72	3 91	o 12	9.33	9.54	9 / 5	0 97	10 20	10 44	10 66	10 91	11 17	11.40
15	$1,477	$1,512	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027
$/yr	17.724	18.144	18,528	18,972	19,404	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324
$/hr	8.52	8.72	8 91	9 12	9 33	9 54	9.75	9.97	10 20	10 44	10 66	10 91	11 17	11 40	11.69
16	$1,512	$1,544	$1,581	$1,61 /	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072
$/yr	18,144	18,528	18,9/2	19,404	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22.176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864
$/hr	8.72	8.91	9 12	9.33	9 54	9 75	9.97	10 20	10 44	10 66	10 91	11.17	11 40	11 69	11.95
17	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2.119
U/r	18,528	19972	19,404	19,348	20h280		21216	21.720	22 176	22 692	23.232	23 712	24 324	24.864	25 428
$/hr	8 91	9.12	9 33	9.54	9 75	9 97	10 20	10 44	10.66	10 91	11 17	11.40	11 69	1 1 95	12 23
18	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169
$/yr	18,9/2	19,404	19,848	20,280	20 736	21.216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028
S/hr	9 12	9 33	9 54	9.75	9 97	10.20	10 44	10.66	10.91	11 17	11.40	11 69	11 95	12 23	12.51
19	$1617	$1 654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222
	J <y,-T~rLT	i b ।		-b, , bb			--r	-	— r-'-'--	<■ Jr						— „
$/hr	9 33	9 54	9 75	9 97	10 20	10.44	10 6b	W 91	111/	11 40	11.69	I 1.95	12 23	iz o i	12.82
20	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272
$/yr	19.848	20.280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	2.3.712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264
$/tu	9.54	9.75	9.97	10.20	10 44	10.66	10.91	1117	11 40	11.G9	11 95	12.23	12.51	12 82	13.11
Prepared by (he l)W Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 1 of 11
APPENDIX II
University of Washington - Contract Classified SE1U LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Rancic	<- - - STEP - - - >													CEGP Steps	
	A	B	C	D	E	F		G	H	I		J	K	L	M		N	O
21	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324
$/yr	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23.232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888
$/hr	9.75	9 97	10 20	10 44	10.66	10 91	11 17	1 1.40	11 69	11 95	12 23	12 51	12 82	13.1 1	13 41
22	S 1.728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378
S/yr	20,736	21.216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26.028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536
$/hr	9 9/	10 20	10 44	10 66	10 91	111/	11 40	11 69	1 1 95	12 23	12 51	12 82	13 11	13 41	13 72
23	$1,768	51,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,1 19	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433
$/yr	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23.232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196
Mm	10.20	10,44	10 66	10 91	11 17	1 1 40	11 69	11 95	12 23	12 51	12 82	13 11	13 41	13.72	14 04
24	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	S 1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492
S/yr	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904
$/hr	10 44	10 66	10 91	11 17	1 1 40	11 69	11 95	12 23	12 51	12 82	13 11	13 41	13 12	14 04	14 38
25	51,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2.119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,2/2	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547
S/yr	22.176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564
S/hr	10.66	10 91	11 17	1 1.40	1 1 69	11 95	12 23	12.51	12 82	13 11	13 41	13 72	14 04	14 38	14 69
26	S1.891	$1,936	$1,976	S2.027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,3/8	$2,433	$2,492	$2.54/	$2,611
S/yr	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332
S/hr	10 91	11 17	1 1 40	11 69	11 95	12 23	12 51	12.82	13 11	13 41	13.72	14.04	14 38	14.69	15 06
27	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671
$/yr	23,232	23,712.	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	2 7,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052
S/hr	11 17	11.40	1 1 69	11 95	12 23	12 51	12 82	13 11	13 41	13 72	14 04	14 38	14 69	15,06	15 41
Prepared by Iha UW Compensation Office
f ffoctivc //1/200Z
I»agc 2 Of H
SE1U LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	c	D	E	F	STEP G	H	i		J	K	L	M	CEGP Steps	
														N	O
28	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734
$/yr	23, Z12	74,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28.536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808
$/hr	1 1 40	1 1.69	1 1 95	12 23	12 51	12.82	13 11	13.41	13.72	14 04	14 38	14.69	15 06	15.41	15.77
29	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799
$/yr	24.324	24,864	25 423	26,028	26 664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,1 96	29 904	30,564	31.332	32,052	32,808	33,588
$/hr	11 69	11.95	12 23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13 41	13.72	14 04	14 38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15
30	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863
$/y r	24,864	25,420	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31.332	32.052	32,808	33.588	34,356
$/hr	11 95	12.23	12 51	12.82	13 11	13 41	13 Z2	14.04	14 38	14 69	15.06	15.41	15 77	16 15	16 52
31	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935
$/y r	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220
$/hr	12 23	12.51	12 82	13.1 1	13 41	13 72	14.04	14.38	14 69	15 06	15.41	15.If	16.15	16 52	16 93
32	$2,169	$2,222	$2,2/2	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003
$/yr	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28.536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036
$/hr	12 51	12 82	13 11	13.41	13.72	14 04	14.38	14.69	15 06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17 33
33	$2,222	$2,2/2	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,795	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074
S/vr	26 664	27 764	27 888	/B 536	29 196	29 904	30 564	31.332	32.052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888
S/hr	12 82	13.11	13 41	13 72	14.04	14 38	14.69	15 06	15.41	15.77	16 15	16.52	16.93	1 / 33	11 IS
					a. _			... ~	_ - —					ak .n,	—	. —	-a. -X.	ak	.	.	a-.	-n. r ■ a	,.^rx ,		a1"*	■'"S.	r-K rT, y, n r~	rr, y, zx	r* '*>	—» j	(“a ■"! J	r~K
	f s.	?*<< ,			qz. z+jjz.	<>z_ h o*-* 7	,U I 1	s$><.	/ 1		</£. . { -Z	ZZ- ।	Z*- I Z	~ I		'Z'J, r
$/yr	27.264	27.888	28.536	29.196	29 904	30.564	31.332	32.052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800
$/hr	13.11	13,41	13 72	14.04	14.38	14 69	15.06	15.41	15 77	16.15	16 52	16 93	17 33	17.73	18 17
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 3 of 11
APPENDIX II
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1,2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	STEP	H	I	J	K	L	M	CEGP N	Steps O
35	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2.54/	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228
$/yr	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,5754	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35.220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736
$/hr	13 41	13 72	14.04	14 38	14 69	15 06	15 41	15 77	16 15	16.52	16 93	17 33	17 73	18 17	18 62
30	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,31 1
$/yr	28,536	29,19G	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36.036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732
$/hr	13 72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15 06	15 41	15.77	16 15	16 52	16 93	17 33	17 73	18.17	18 62	19 10
37	$2,433	$2,402	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391
S/yr	29,190	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692
$/lir	14 04	14.38	14 69	15 06	15 41	15 77	16 15	16 52	16 93	17.33	1 7 73	18 17	18 62	19 10	19.56
38	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,31 1	$3,391	$3,479
S/yr	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748
$/hr	14 38	14 69	15 06	15 41	15 77	16 15	16 52	16 93	17 33	17 73	18 17	18 62	19 10	19 56	20 07
39	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560
S/yr	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720
$/6r	14 69	15.06	15.41	15 77	16 15	16.52	16 93	17 33	1 7 73	18.17	18 62	19.10	19.56	20 07	20.54
40	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653
$/yr	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836
$/hr	15.06	15.41	15 77	16 15	16 52	16 93	17 33	17 73	18.17	18.62	19 10	19 56	20.07	20 54	21.08
41	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744
S/yr	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928
$/hr	15 41	15 77	16 15	16 52	16 93	17 33	1 7 73	18 17	18 62	19 10	19 56	20 0/	20 54	21 08	21 60
Prepared by !ho IJ W Coniponsatrori Office
idfeclive 7/1/2007
P.rrjrr 4 of 1 i
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	<- - - STEP	>													CEGP Steps	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J		K	I.	M		N	O
42	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841
$/yr	32, HUH	33,588	34,3 b b	35c220	36 036	36,888	37,800	38.736	39.732	40.692	41,748	42.720	43.836	44.928	46,092
$/hr	1 5 77	16 15	16 52	16 93	17 33	17.73	18 17	18 62	19.10	19 56	20 07	20 54	21 08	21 60	22.16
4 3	$2.799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,0/4	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935
$/yr	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220
$/hr	16 15	16.52	16 93	17 33	17 73	18 17	18 62	19 10	19.56	20 07	20 54	21.08	21.60	22 16	22.70
44	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033
$/yr	34,356	35.220	36,036	36.888	37.800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396
$/hr	16 52	16.93	17.33	17 73	18.17	18.62	19 10	19.56	20.07	20 54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27
45	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131
$/yr	35,220	36.036	36,888	37,800	38.736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572
$/hr	16 93	17 33	17 73	18 17	18 62	19.10	19 56	20 07	20.54	21 08	21.60	22.16	22 70	23 27	23.83
4G	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,23/
$/yr	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43.836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	, 49,572	50,844
$/hr	1 ! 33	1 / /3	18 17	1ft 62	19 10	19 56	20 07	20 54	21.08	21 60	22 16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44
4/	$3,0/4	$3,150	$3,228	$3.311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342
S/l it	17.73	18.17	18.62	19 10	19.56	2 0 0 fr	20 54		21 60	22 16	22 70	23.27	23.83	24zri	25.05
48	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3, 744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453
$/yr	37,800	36,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49.5/2	50.844	52,104	53,436
$/hr	18 17	18.62	19 10	19.56	20 07	20 54	21 08	21 60	22.16	22 70	23 27	23 83	24 44	25 05	25.69
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 5 of 11
APPENDIX II
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	<- - - STEP - - >													CEGP Steps	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	1	J		K	L	M	N	O
49	53,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562
$/yr	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49.572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744
$/h<	18.62	19 10	19 56	20 07	20.54	21 08	21 60	22.16	22.70	23 27	23.83	24 44	25 05	25.69	26 32
50	53,311	$3,391	$3,4/9	$3,560	$3,653	$3, 744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	S4.342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,6/6
$/yr	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53.436	54,/44	56,112
S/he	19.10	19.56	20 07	20.54	21 08	21 60	22 16	22,70	23.27	23 83	24.44	25.05	25 69	26.32	26 98
51	53,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,6/6	$4,792
$/yr	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504
$/hr	19 56	20 07	20 54	21 08	21 60	22 16	22 70	23.27	23 83	24 44	25.05	25 69	26 32	26.98	27 65
52	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912
S/yr	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944
$/hr	20 07	20 54	21 08	21 60	22 16	22 70	23 27	23 83	24 44	25 05	25 69	26 32	26 98	27 65	28 34
53	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035
$/yr	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47.220	48.396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60.420
$/hr	20 54	21 08	21 60	22 16	22 70	23 27	23 83	24 44	25.05	25 69	26.32	26.98	27 65	28 34	29.05
54	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163
S/yr	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48.396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956
$/hr	21 08	21 60	22 16	22 70	23 27	23 83	24 44	25 05	25.69	26 32	26 98	27 65	28 34	29 05	29 79
55	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289
$/yr	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468
$/hr	21 60	22 16	22 70	23 27	23 83	24 44	25 05	25.69	26 32	26 98	27.65	28 34	29 05	29 79	30.51
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Hhjclive r'n/200/
I 6 of 1 1
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	<- - - STEP - - - >													CEGP Steps	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	1		J	K	L	M	N	O
56	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426
$ryr	46.092	47.220	48,396	49.572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112
$/hf	22 16	22./0	23 27	23 83	24 44	25 05	25 69	26 32	26 98	27 65	28 34	29 05	29 79	30 51	31 30
5 7	$3,935	$4,033	$4,1.31	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557
$/yr	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57.504	58,944	60,420	61.956	63,468	65,112	66,684
$/hr	22 70	23.27	23.83	24 44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26 98	27 65	28 34	29 05	29 79	30.51	31 30	32.06
58	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699
S/yr	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388
$/hr	23.27	23.83	24.44	25 05	25.69	26 32	26 98	27.65	28 34	29.05	29.79	30 51	31 30	32.06	32.88
59	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841
$/yr	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65.112	66,684	68,388	70,092
$/hr	23 83	24.44	25 05	25 69	26.32	26 98	27 65	28.34	29 05	29.79	30.51	31 30	32.06	32.88	33.70
60	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985
$/yr	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61.956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820
$/hr	24 44	25 05	25 69	26 32	26 98	27 65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31 30	32.06	32 88	33.70	34 53
61	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134
$/nr	25 05	25 69	2 b 32	26 98		28.34	29 05	29.79	30.51	31 30	32.06	32.86	33 70	34.53	35 39
62	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290
$/yr	53,436	54,744	56,112	5 7,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	7 t ,820	73,608	75,480
S/hr	25 69	26.32	26.98	27 65	28.34	29 05	29 79	30 51	31 30	32 06	32.88	33.70	34 53	35.39	36 29
Prepared by the UW Compensabun Office
f-ffeclive 7/1/2007
Peso 7 of 11
APPENDIX II
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	G	D	E	F	STEP G	H	1	J	K	L	M	CEGP N	Steps O
63	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446
$/yr	54,744	56,112	57,504	58.944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,35?
$/lir	26 32	26.98	2 / 65	28 34	29 05	29 79	30 51	31 30	32 06	32 88	33 70	34 53	35 39	36 29	37 19
64	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	S5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609
S/yr	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,1 12	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308
S/hr	76 98	27.65	28.34	29 05	29 79	30.51	31 30	32 06	32 88	33 70	34 53	35 39	3G 29	37 19	38 13
65	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773
$/yr	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63.4G8	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276
$/hr	27 65	28.34	29 05	29 79	30.51	31.30	32 06	32 88	33.70	34 53	35 39	36.29	37 19	38 13	39 08
66	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	55,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943
$/yi	58,944	60,420	6'1,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,097	71,820	73,608	75.480	7 7,352	79,308	81,276	83,316
$/6r	28 34	29 05	29 79	30 51	31 30	32 06	37 88	33 70	34 53	35 39	36 29	37 19	38 13	39 08	40 06
6/	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116
S/yr	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,1 12	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77.352	79 308	81,276	83,316	85,392
$/lir	29 05	2.9.79	30 51	31 30	32 06	32 88	33 70	34 53	35.39	36 29	37 19	38.13	39 08	40 06	41 05
68	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294
S/yr	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392.	87,528
S/hf	29 79	30 51	31 30	32 06	32 88	33 70	34 53	35 39	36 29	37 19	38 13	39 08	40 06	41 05	42 08
69	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477
S/yr	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724
S/hi	30 51	31 30	32 06	32 88	33.70	34.53	35 39	36.29	37 19	38 13	39 08	40 06	41 05	42 08	43 14
f’leparecl by the UW Compensation Office
effective 771/200/
Cage (i of 11
• •••••••••••	•••••••eeooe
University of Washington - Contract Classified
SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	STEP G	H	I	J	K	L	M	CEGP N	Steps O
ZO	55,426	$5,55/	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665
S/yr	65,112	66,684	68,388	70.092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980
$/hr	31 30	32.06	32 88	33 70	34 53	35 39	36 29	37 19	38 13	39 08	40 06	41 05	42 08	43.14	44 22
71	$5.55/	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,4 77	$7,665	$7,855
S/yr	66,684	68,388	70.092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87.528	89,724	91,980	94,260
S/hr	32 06	32 88	33 70	34.53	35.39	36 29	37.19	38 13	39 08	40 06	41.05	42 08	43,14	44 22	45 32
72	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054
S/yr	68.388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	/ 7,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89.724	91,980	94,260	96,648
S/hr	32.88	33 70	34.53	35.39	36 29	37 19	38.13	39 08	40 06	41.05	42 08	43 14	44.22	45.32	4G.47
73	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252
$/yr	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024
S/hr	33 /()	34 53	35 39	36 29	37 19	38 13	39.08	40 06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46 47	47 61
Z4	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,7/3	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458
$/y r	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496
$/hr	34.53	35.39	36.29	37 19	38.13	39.08	40 06	41 05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45 32	46.47	47 61	48 80
75	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671
$/hr	35.39	36.39	37.19	38 1 3	39 08	40 06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45 32	46 4 f	.17 r.i	48 80	50 03
76	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6.7/3	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888
$/yr	75,480	/ 7,352	79,308	81.276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,960	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656
S/hr	36 29	37 19	38.13	39 08	40 06	41 05	42 08	43 14	44.22	45,32	46.47	47 61	48.80	50 03	51.28
Prepared by the UW Compcnsalion Office
Effective 7.'1/2007
Pacje 9 of 11
APPENDIX II
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	<	STEP	>													CEGP Steps	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J		K	L	M	N	O
'! 1	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107
$/y r	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	8 7,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109.284
$/hr	37.19	38 13	39 08	40 06	41 05	42.08	43.14	44 22	45 32	46 47	47 61	48 80	50.03	51 28	52 54
78	$6,609	$6,7/3	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334
S/yr	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008
$/tu	38.13	39 08	40.06	41.05	42 08	43 14	44.22	45 32	46 47	47.61	48 80	50.03	51.28	52 54	53 85
79	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,2.52	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570
S/yr	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114.840
$/hr	39 08	40,06	41.05	42 08	43 14	44.22	45.32	46 47	47 61	48 80	50 03	51 28	52.54	53.85	55 21
80	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808
S/y<	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696
$/hi	40 06	41 05	42 08	43 14	44 22	45 3?	46 47	4/ 61	48 80	50 03	51 28	52 54	53 85	55 21	56 58
81	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052
$/yr	85,392	87.528	89,724	91,980	94.2G0	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106.656	109.284	1 12.008	114,840	117,696	120,624
$/hr	41 05	42.08	43 14	44 22	45.32	46.47	47 61	48 80	50.03	51 28	52 54	53 85	55.21	56 58	57 99
82	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,10/	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307
$/y(	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684
$/llr	42 08	43.14	44.22	45 32	46 47	47.61	48 80	50 03	51 28	52 54	53 85	55.21	56 58	57.99	59,46
83	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560
$/yr	89.724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104.052	106,656	109,284	112.008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720
$/hr	43 14	44.22	45 32	46 47	47 61	48 80	50 03	51 28	52 54	53 85	55 21	56.58	57 99	59 46	60.92
Prepared by tno UW Compensation Office
effective 7/1/2OOZ
Page 10 of 11
• ••••••••••• ini iiiimmii
University of Washington - Contract Classified
SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	<- - - STEP - - - >													CEGP Steps	
	A	8	C	D	E	F	G	H	1		J	K	L	M	N	O
84	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827
$/-yr	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	1 04,052	106,656	109,284	112.008	1 14,840	11 7,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924
$/hr	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48 80	50 03	51.28	52.54	53 85	55 21	56 58	57 99	59 46	60 92	62 46
85	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,30/	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100
S/yr	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109.284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120.624	123.684	126,720	129,924	133,200
$/hr	45.32	46.47	47.61	48 80	50 03	51 28	52.54	53 85	55 21	56 58	57 99	59 46	60.92	62 46	64.04
86	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376
S/yr	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512
$/hr	46.47	47 61	48 80	50 03	51 28	52 54	53.85	55 21	5G 58	57 99	59 46	60 92	62.4G	64 04	65.63
87	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376	$11,663
$/yr	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512	139,956
$/hr	47 61	48 80	50 03	51 28	52 54	53.85	55.21	56 58	57 99	59 46	60 92	62 46	64 04	65 63	67 29
88	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$1 1.376	$11,663	$11,950
S/yr	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133.200	136,512	139,956	143,400
$/hr	48 80	50.03	51 28	52 54	53.85	55.21	56 58	57 99	59.46	60.92	62.46	64 04	65 63	67 29	68.94
89	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376	$11,663	$11,950	$12,251
S/fir	O 'U. U	61 28	62.54	53.85	5S.21	56.58	57 99	GQ Z A	60.92	62.46	64 04	65 63	67 29	68 94	70 00
90	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376	$11,663	$11,950	$12,251	$12,556
$/yr	106,656	109.284	112,008	114,840	11 7,696	120,624	123,684	1 26,720	i2y,y24	133,200	l 36,512	139,956	143,400	147,012	1 50,672
$/hr	51 28	52 54	53 85	55 21	56 58	57.99	59 46	60 92	62.46	64.04	65 63	67 29	68 94	70 68	72 44
I Veparcd by the UW Compensation Office
effective 7/1/2007
Pago 11 of 11
••••••••••••••••»>»•••••••••••••••
University of Washington - Contract Classified
SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements
Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
RanijC	A	B	C	D	E	F			G	H	STEP	- - - -> J	K	I,		M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP Steps	
																		R	s
0	$1.950	$2,009	$2.0/0	$2,133	S3.19/	$2,765	S2.333	$2,404	$2,404	$2,404	$2.4/7	$2 4 77	$2 551	$2,551	$2 551	$2 630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875
$/yi	23,400	24.108	24,840	25.596	26.364	2/.180	27.996	28,848	28.848	28,848	29.724	29,/24	30,612	30,612	30.612	31,560	32,496	33,504	34,500
$/hr	11 25	11 59	1 1,94	12 31	12.68	13 07	13 46	13 87	13 87	13 87	14 29	14 29	14 72	14 72	14 72	16 1 /	15 62	16 11	16 59
1	$1,969	$2,030	32.091	S2.155	S2.220	$2,287	$2.35/	$2,427	$2,427	$2,427	$2,501	$2,501	$2 577	$2 57/	$2.57/	$2,656	$2,736	$2 818	$2 904
$/yr	23.628	24,360	25.092	25,860	26,640	27,444	28,284	29,124	29,124	29,124	30,012	30,012	30,924	30,924	30.924	31l072	32.832	33.816	34,848
S/.nr	11 36	11 ' 1	12.08	12 43	12 81	13 19	13 60	1 4 00	14 00	14 00	14 43	14 43	14 8?	14 37	14 a?	1 5 32	16 78	16 26	16 75
2	$1,990	$2,051	S2.111	S2.175	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,452	$2,452	$2,526	$2,526	$2,604	$2,604	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934
$/yr	23,800	24,612	25,332	26,100	26,904	2/.706	28.548	29.424	29.424	29.424	30,312	30,312	31,248	31.248	31,248	32,172	33,156	34,152	35.208
$/hr	11 48	11 83	12 18	12 55	17 93	13 32	13 /3	14 15	14 15	14 15	14 57	14 57	15 02	15 02	15 02	15 47	15 94	16 42	16 93
3	$2,009	$2.0/0	$2,133	$2,197	$2,265	$2,333	$2 404	$2,4/7	$2,4 7 7	$2,4 77	$2,551	$2,551	$2,630	$2,630	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963
S/yr	24,108	24,840	25.596	26.364	27,180	27,996	28.848	29.724	29,724	29.724	30.612	30,612	31,560	31,560	31.560	32.496	33.504	34,500	35,556
$/hr	11 59	11 94	12 31	12 68	13 07	13 46	13 87	14 29	14.29	14 29	14 72	14 ?2	15 17	15 17	15 17	15 62	16 11	16 59	17 09
4	$2,030	$2,091	$2,155	$2,220	$2,287	$2,35 7	$2,427	$2,501	$2,501	$2,501	$2,5/7	$2,577	$2,656	$2,656	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$3,992
S/yr	24,360	25,092	25,860	26,640	27,444	28,284	29,124	30,012	30,012	30,012	30,924	30,924	31,872	31,8/2	31,872	32.832	33,816	34,848	35,904
S/hi	1171	12 06	12 43	12 81	13 19	13 60	14 00	14 43	14 43	14.43	14.87	14 8/	15 32	15 32	15 32	15 78	16 26	16 75	1 7 26
A	P/JA1	^9111	$2/	$2 w	$2,309	ppg	P/P	p P5	p.pA	p pA	P. A04	P.A04	$9 681	p Aft1	p Aft1	$9,7^	p 846	p <n4	P 029
$/yr	24.612	25,332	26.100	26,904	27,708	28.548	29,424	30,312	30,312	30,312	31,248	31.248	32,172	32,172	32,172	33,156	34,152	35,208	36,264
$/hr	11 83	12 18	12 56	12 93	13 32	13 73	14 15	14 57	14 57	14 57	15.02	15.02	15.47	15.47	15.47	15.94	16 42	16.93	17 43
6	$2,0/0	$2,133	$2,197	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,551	$2,551	$2,630	$2,630	$2,708	$2,708	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053
$/yi	24,840	25.596	26,364	2/. 180	2/996	28,848	29 724	30.612	30.612	30 612	31,560	31.560	32 496	32,496	32,496	33.504	34600	35556	36 636
$/hr	1 1 94	12 31	12 68	13 0/	13 46	13 8/	14 29	14 /2	14 72	14 72	15 1/	15 1/	15 62	15 62	15 62	16 11	16 59	1 7 09	1 7 61
z	52,091	$2,155	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2.42/	$2,501	$2,5/7	$2,5/7	$2,5/7	$2,656	$2,656	$2,736	$2,736	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083
$'yr	2 5,092	25.860	26.640	27.444	28.284	29.1/4	30.01 2	30.924	30.9/4	30.924	3l .87?	31 87/	32.832	j/,032	32,032	33.016	34.848	35,904	36,996
8	32 ill	$2,iZb	$2,2'12	$2,309	$2,3/9	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,604	$2,604	$2.66 r	52.681	$2,763	$z,763	$2.763	$2,846	$2,934	$3.0//	$3. 114
$/yr	25.332	26,100	26,904	27.708	28,548	29,424	30,312	31.240	31.240	31.248	32.172	32,172	33,156	33.156	33,156	34,152	35,208	36,264	37,368
S/hr	12 18	1 2 55	12 93	13 32	13 73	1/115	14 57	1 5 02	15 02	15 02	15 4/	15 47	15 94	15 94	15 94	16 42	16 93	1 7.43	11 97
9	$2,133	S2.197	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2 477	$2 551	$2 G30	$2 630	$2 630	$2 708	$2 708	$2,792	$2,792	$2 792	$2 875	$2 963	S3 053	$3 145
S/yr	25,596	26,364	27,180	27,996	28,848	29,724	30,612	31,560	31,560	31,560	32,498	32.496	33.504	33.504	33,504	34,500	35,556	36,636	37,740
S/hr	12 31	12 68	13 07	13 46	13 87	14 29	14 72	15 17	15 17	15 17	15 62	15 62	16 11	16 11	16 11	16 59	17 09	17 61	18 14
F’teparcd by the OW Cuinpcn$«i1>on Office
Kflcct^c 7/VJ?0D/
F^ige 1 of 9
APPENDIX 111
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
F? <i rig o								< - - -	STEP	- - - ->								CEGP Steps	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	M	N	0	P	Q	R	s
10	$2,155	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2 57 7	$2,656	$2,656	S2,6b6	$2,736	$2,736	$2,818	$2,818	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175
S/yr	75.8150	26,640	27.444	28.284	29,124	30,012	30,924	31,872	31,872	31,872	32,832	32bft32	33.816	33,816	33,816	34.848	35,904	36,996	38,100
$/hr	12 43	12 81	13 19	13 60	14 00	14 43	14 87	15 32	15 32	15.32	15 78	15 78	16.26	16 26	16 26	16 75	11 26	1 7 79	18 32
11	$2,175	$2,242	$2,309	$2,3/9	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2 081	$2,681	$2,763	$2,763	$2,846	$2,846	$2,046	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,20/
S/yr	26/00	26,904	2 7.708	28,548	29.424	30.31?	31,248	32,1 72	32 I Z2	32.1 72	33,156	33,15ft	34,152	34,152	34.152	35,20ft	36.254	37.368	38,484
S/hr	12 bb	12 93	13 32	13 73	14 15	14 bZ	15 02	15 47	1b 4/	15 47	15 94	15 94	1ft 42	16 42	16 42	16 93	1/43	11 9/	1ft bft
12	$2,197	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2.47/	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,700	$2,708	$2,792	$2,792	$2,875	$2,875	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239
S/yr	20,364	27,180	27,996	28.848	29,724	30,612	31,560	32,496	32,496	32,496	33,504	33.504	34,500	34.500	34.500	3b, bb6	36,636	37,740	38,868
$/hi	1? 03	13 07	13 40	13 87	14 29	14 n	15 1/	15 62	15 62	15 62	16 11	16 11	16 59	16 59	16 59	1 7 09	1 i 61	18 14	18 69
13	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,57 7	$2,656	$2,736	$2,736	32,736	$2,818	$2,818	$2,904	$2 904	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3.1 75	$3,272
S/yr	26.640	27.444	28,284	29,124	30,012	30,92.4		32.832	32,832	32.832	33,816	33,816	34,848	34,848	34.848	35.994	36.996	30.100	39,264
Sfhr	1'2 81	13 19	13 60	14 00	14 43	14 87	15 32	1b 7ft	15 78	15 7ft	1ft 2ft	16 26	16 75	16 75	16 75	17 26	17 79	1ft 32	18 88
14	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,763	$2,763	$2,846	$2,846	$2,934	$2,934	$2,934	$3,022	$3,1 14	$3,207	$3,304
$/yr	20,904	27.708	28.548	29.424	30,312	31,Z4ft	32.172		33.156	33,156	34.152	34,152	35,208	35,208	35 208	36,264	37 368	38,484	39,648
S/Hr	12 93	1 3 32	13 Zft	14 15	14 b7	15 02	15 4/	1b 94	15 94	1b 94	16 42	16 42	16 93	16 93	16 93	1 7 43	1 7 97	18 50	19 06
1b	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,792	$2,792	$2,875	$2,875	$2,963	$2,963	$2,963	$3,053	S3.145	$3,239	$3,33/
S/yr	27.180	27,996	28,848	29,724	30,612	31,560	32.496	33,504	33,504	33,504	34,000	34,500	35 556	35,556	35,555	36,636	37,740	38 868	40,044
S/hr	13 07	13 46	13 87	14 29	14 72	15 17	15 62	16 11	16 11	16 11	16 59	16 59	17 09	11 09	1 7 09	17 61	18 14	18 69	19 25
16	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,818	82,818	$2,904	$2 904	$2,992	$2,992	$2,992	$3,083	$3.1 75	$3,272	$3,371
S/yr	27.444	28.284	29.124	30,012	30,924	31,872	32,832	33,816	33,816	33,816	34 848	34 848	35,904	35 904	35 904	36 996	38,100	39 264	40,452
S/nr	13 Hl	13 on	14 00	14 43	14 87	15 32	15 78	16 26	16 26	16 26	16 75	16 75	1 7 26	17 26	1 7 26	17 ’Zft	18 32	1ft	19 45
1 z	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,846	$2,846	$2,934	$2,934	$3,022	S3.022	$3,022	$3,114	$3.20/	$3,304	$3,405
$/y<	2 7,708	28,548	29,424	30.312	31,248	32,172	33,156	34,152	34,152	34,152	35,208	35.208	36.264	3ft. 264	36.264	37.368	38,484	39,648	40,860
S/hr	13.32	13 73	14 1b	14 57	15 02	15 4Z	15 94	16 42	16 42	16 4?	16 93	16 93	17 43	17 43	17 43	17 97	18 50	19 06	19 64
18	$2,333	52,404	$2.4 7/	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,875	$2,875	$2,963	$2,963	$3,053	$3,053	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,33/	$3,438
S'yi	27.996	28,848	29.724	30,612	31,560	32.496	33,504	34,500	34,500	34 500	35 556	35.556	36 636	36.636	36.636	37 740	38.868	40 044	41,256
S/hr	13 46	13 87	14 29	14 /2	1b 1 /	1 5 ft?	1ft 1 1	16 59	16 59	16 59	17 09	17 09	17 ft1	17 61	1 / ft1	1b 14	1ft 6ft	19 25	19 83
19	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,816	$2,904	$2,904	$2,904	$2,992	$2,992	$3,083	$3,083	$3,083	$3,175	S3.272	$3,371	$3,474
$/yr	28.204	29,124	30,012	30,924	31.872	32,832	33,816	34,ft4ft	34,848	84.848	35.904	35,904	36,996	3ft.93ft	36,996	ftft,100	39b2G4	40,452	4 1.688
S/hr	13 60	14 00	14 43	14 ft/	15 32	15 78	16 26	16 75	16 75	16 75	1 7 26	1 7 26	1 7 79	1 Z Zft	1 7 79	18 32	18 88	1ft 4b	20 04
hl ■.■part'd by Ihc II A'Con>|H'ns.i1,rii> Ollri ■;	I'Ucd.ve 7/I/XIO/	7 of 9
iiiiiiiiiiiiiieiiiiieiiiiiiHiiiii
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
Rancjc	A	B	C	D	E	E	G	H	STEP I	- - - -> J	K	L_	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP R	Steps S
20	S2 3/9	S2.452	$2 526	S2.604	$2,681	S? 763	S3 846	$2,934	$2,934	$2,934	S3.022	$3,022	$3.114	S3 114	$3.1 14	$3 207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509
$/yi	28,348	29.424	30,312	31.248	32,172	33.156	34,152	35,208	35,208	35,208	36.264	36,264	37,368	37,368	37,368	38,484	39,648	40,860	42,108
$/ hi	13 73	14 15	14,fj I	15 0?	15 4/	1 5 94	16.42	16 93	16 93	16 93	17 43	17 43	17 97	17 07	17 9/	18 50	19 06	19 64	20 24
21	$2.■104	$2,477	$2,831	$?,G3Q	$2,706	$2,7 9?	$2,875	$2,963	$2,963	$2,963	$3,053	$3,053	S3,145	$3,145	$3,145	$3,239	S3.337	$3,438	$3,543
$/yr	26.648	29. 724	30,612	31,560	32,496	33.504	34.500	35.556	35,556	35.556	36.636	36.636	3Z./40	3/,/40	3Z.Z40	38,868	40.044	41.256	42.516
$/hr	13 07	14 29	14 72	15 17	15 0?	in 1 1	16 59	1 Z uO	Tr’ 00	1/ 09	17 61	1/ 61	18 14	13 14	18 14	18 S9	19 25	19 83	20 44
22	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$2,992	$2,992	$3,083	$3,083	S3,175	S3,175	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	S3,474	$3,579
S/yr	29.124	30,012	30,924	31,8/2	32,832	33,816	34.848	35.904	35.904	35,904	36,996	36,996	38,100	38,100	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688	42,948
S/hr	14 00	14 43	14.67	15 32	15 78	16.26	16.75	17.26	17 26	17 26	17 79	17 79	18 32	18 32	18 32	18 88	19 45	20 04	20 65
23	$2,452	S2.526	S2.604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,022	$3,022	53,114	$3,114	S3.20/	S3,20/	S3,207	$3,304	53.405	$3,509	$3,614
S/yr	29.424	30.312	31.248	32.172	33,156	34,152	35,208	36.264	36.264	36,264	37,368	37,368	38,484	38,484	38,404	39,648	40,860	42,108	43,368
$/hr	14 15	14 57	15 02	15 47	15 94	16 42	16 93	17 43	17 43	17.43	17 97	17.9/	18 50	18 50	10 50	19 06	19 64	20 24	20 85
24	$2,477	S2.551	$2,630	$2,708	52,792	$2,8 75	$2,963	$3,053	$3,053	$3,053	S3.145	S3,145	S3,239	$3,239	$3,239	S3,33 7	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650
S/yr	29.724	30,612	31,560	32,496	33,504	34,500	35.556	36.636	36,636	36,636	37,740	37,740	38.868	38,868	38,868	40,044	41,256	42,516	43,800
$/hr	14 29	14 72	16 17	15 62	16 11	16 59	1 / 09	1 / 61	17 61	17.61	10 14	18 14	18 69	18 69	18 69	19 25	19 83	20 44	21 06
2S	frn f-Q*			CO /Oft	e 3 Q 1 Q	e? 904	C') nao	S3 003	S3 033	$3 033	$3.1		$3,27?	$3.2	$3979	^3 371	$3474	S3 579	$3 687
S/yr	30,012	30,924	31,8/2	32.832	33,816	34,848	35,904	36,996	36.996	36,996	38.100	38,100	39,264	39,264	39,264	40,452	41,688	42.948	44,244
$/hr	14 43	14 87	15 32	15 78	16 26	16 75	1 7 26	17 79	17 79	17.79	18 32	18.32	18 88	18.88	18 88	19 45	20 04	20 65	21 27
26	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,114	$3,114	$3,207	$3,20/	$3,304	$3,304	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724
S/yr	39.312	31.248	32.172	33.156	34,152	35.208	36.264	37.368	37,368	3/. 368	38.484	38,484	39.648	30.64B	39.648	40,860	42,108	43.368	44.688
$/hr	14 5/	15 02	15 47	15 94	16 42	16 93	17 43	17 97	1 / 97	17 97	18 50	18 50	19 06	19.06	19 06	19 64	20 24	20 85	21 48
27	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	32,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,145	$3,145	$3,239	S3,239	$3,337	$3,337	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761
S/ur	Rfl R17		V? 4OR	33 5D4	34 ^OO	35 55tS	no R3G	37 740	37 .'40	3? MO	38.808	38.86ft	40.044	40,044	40.044	41,256	42,516	43.800	45.132
$/nr	k-Q /Z	du	lb uz	lb 1 1	lb bV	1 l uu	I ! Ci I	io io	io i‘+	io i4	iu.ub	io	1 J Z. 5	1 -j 2 5	i => Zb	1 b	u.-;	z. ! be	
28	S2.57Z	$2,656	S2./36	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992		$3.1/5	$3,1 /b	$3,1/5	$3,272	S3.-//Z	$3.37 i	$3,37 i	33,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$ X f W
S/yr	30.924	31,872	32,832	33,816	34,848	35,904	36,996	38.100	38.100	38,100	39.264	39,264	40,452	40,452	40,452	41,688	42,948	44,244	45.588
S/hr	14 S7	1 -io	15 78	16 26	16 75	17 2G	1 7 ?9	18 32	18 32	18 32	10 RA	18 RA	10 45	19 45	19 45	20 04	20.65	21 27	21 92
	co <5Q4	$? 681	co /63	$2,846	$2 934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3207	$3,207	$3,304	$3,304	$3,405	$34 (15	$3405	$3,509	$3614	$3,724	$3,839
S/yr	31,248	32,1/2	33,156	34,152	35,208	36,264	37,368	38,484	38,464	38,484	39.648	39.648	40,860	40,860	40.890	42.108	43,368	44.608	46.068
$/hr	15 02	15 47	15 94	16 42	16 93	17 43	17 97	18.50	18.50	18 50	19 06	19 06	19 64	19 64	19 64	20 24	20 85	21 48	22 15
Prepared by the UW Ccrnpensalion 0ff.ee
nfective Z/V2007
Page 3 of 9
APPENDIX III
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925iUW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1,2007
Ran(|0	A	B	c	D	E	F	G	H		STEP I	- - - J	K	L	M		N	O	p	Q	CEGP Steps	
																		R	S
30	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3 239	$3,239	$3,239	$3,337	$3,337	$3,438	$3,438	S3.438	$3,543	$3,650	S3.761	S3.876
$/yr	31,360	32,496	33,504	34,500	35.556	36,636	3Z.740	38,fi68	38.868	38,868	40,044	40,044	41.256	41,256	41h2b6	42,516	43,800	45.132	46,512
$/1n	1b 1 !	15 62	16 11	16 69	1 / 09	1 / 61	18 14	18 69	18 69	18 69	19 25	19 25	19 83	19 83	19.83	20.44	21 06	21 70	22.36
31	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$ 3.083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,272	$3,272	$3,371	$3,371	$3,474	S3.474	$3,474	$3,579	S3,687	$3,799	$3,915
$/yr	31,872	32.832	33,816	34,848	35,904	36,996	38,100	39,264	39,264	39,264	40,452	40.452	41,688	41,688	41,688	42,948	44.244	45,588	46.980
SZhr	15 32	15 78	16 26	16 75	17 26	17 79	18 32	18 88	18 88	18 88	19 45	19 45	20 04	20 04	20 04	20 65	21 27	21 92	22 59
32	22,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304	$3,304	$3,304	$3,405	$3,405	$3,509	$3,509	$3,509	S3,614	$3724	$3,839	$3,954
$/yr	32,1/2	33,156	34,152	35,208	36.2B4	3 7.368	38,484	39,648	39,648	39.648	40.860	40,860	42.108	42. WB	42,108	43,368	44.5 $8	46,068	47,448
$/lir	15 47	15 94	16.42	16 93	1 / 43	1 7 97	18 50	19 06	19 06	19 06	19 64	19 64	20 24	20 24	20 24	20 85	21 48	22 H>	22 81
33	$2,708	$2,792.	$2.87 b	$2,983	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3.33/	$3,337	$3,438	$3,438	$3,543	$3,543	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994
$/yi	32,496	33,604	34,500	35,556	36,636	37,740	38,868	40,044	40.044	40,044	41.256	41,256	42,516	42,516	42,516	43,800	45,132	46.512	47,928
$/hc	15 62	16 11	16 59	1 / 09	17 61	18 14	18 69	19 25	19 25	19 2b	19 83	19 83	20 44	20 44	20 44	21 06	21 70	22 36	23 04
34	$2,/36	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3.1 75	$3,272	$3,371	$3,371	$3,371	$3,474	$3,474	$3,579	$3,579	$3,579	$3,68/	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034
$/y,	32,832	33.816	34,848	35,904	36,996	38,100	39.264	40,452	40,452	40,452	41,688	41.688	42,948	42.948	42,948	44,244	45,588	46.980	48,408
$/1)1	15 78	16 26	16 75	17 26	17 79	18 32	18 88	19 45	19 45	19 45	20 04	20 04	20 65	20 65	20 65	21 27	21 92	22 59	23 27
3'o	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3.2.07	$3,304	$3,405	S3,405	$3,405	$3,509	$3,509	$3,614	$3,614	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,0/3
S/yr	33.156	34.152	35.208	36,264	37,368	38.484	39.648	40,860	40,860	40.860	42,108	42.108	43,368	43,368	43,368	44,688	46.068	47.448	48,876
S/nr	15 94	16 42	16 93	17 43	1 ! 97	18 50	10 06	19 64	19 64	19 64	20 24	20 24	20 85	20 85	20 85	21 48	22 15	22 81	23 50
36	$2./92	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3, 145	$3,239	$3,337	53,438	$3,438	$3,438	$3,543	$3,543	$3,650	$3,650	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$4.116
$/yr	33,504	34,500	3b 556	36,636	37 740	38,868	40,044	41.256	41.256	41,256	42,516	42.516	43,800	43,800	43,800	49.13?	46b512	4Z.928	49,392
S/iir	16 11	16 59	17 09	1 / 61	18 14	18 69	19 25	19 83	19 83	19 83	20 44	20 44	21 06	21 06	21 06	21 /<)	22 36	23 04	23 7 b
3 Z	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,1 75	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474	S3,474	$3,474	$3,579	$3,579	$3,687	$3,687	$3,68’7	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156
$/yr	33,816	34.848	35,904	36,996	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688	41,688	41,688	42,948	42,948	44,244	44,244	44,244	45,588	46,980	48,400	49,872
S/lir	16 26	16 75	17 26	17 79	18 32	18 88	19 45	20 04	20 04	20 04	20 65	20 65	21 27	21 27	21 27	21 92	22 59	23 27	23 98
38	32,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3.1 14	$3,207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,509	$3,509	S3,614	$3,614	$3,724	$3,724	S3, 724	S3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,19/
S/yr	34.1b?	35,208	36,264	37.368	38,484	39.648	40.860	42,108	42,108	42,108	43,3GB	43,368	44,688	44.688	44,688	46,068	47,448	48,876	50,364
$/lir	16 42	16 93	17 43	17 <J7	18 50	19 06	19 64	20 24	20 24	29 24	20 85	20 85	21 48	21 46	21 48	22 15	22 81	23 50	24 21
39	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,543	$3,543	$3,650	$3,650	$3,761	$3,761	S3./61	$3.8/6	$3,994	$4.116	$4,239
S/yr	34.500	35,556	36.636	37,740	38,868	40,044	41,256	42,516	42,516	42,516	43,800	43,800	45,132	45,132	45,132	46,512	47,928	49.392	50,868
S/r-n	16 59	17 09	17 61	18 14	18 69	19 25	19 83	20 44	20 44	20 44	21 06	21 06	21 70	21 /0	21 70	22 36	23 04	23 Zb	24 46
40	S2 904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,5/9	S3,5/9	$3,68 7	S3.6 87	$3,799	$3,799	$3./99	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	S4,?8?
$/yr	34,848	36,904	36,990	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688	42b948	42,948	42,948	44,244	44,244	45,588	45,588	45,588	46.980	48,408	49.872	51,384
S/hr	1C 75	17 26	17 79	18 32	18 88	19 45	20 04	20 65	20 65	20 65	21 27	21 27	21 92	21 92	21 92	22 59	23 27	23 98	24 70
41	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	53,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,614	$3,614	$3,724	$3,724	$3,839	$3,839	$3,839	S3,954	$4,0/3	$4,197	$4,325
$/yr	35,208	36,264	37,368	38,484	39,648	40,860	42,108	43,368	43,368	43,368	44,688	44.68B	46,068	46,068	46,068	47,448	48,876	50,364	51,900
$/hr	16 93	17 43	17 97	18 50	19 06	19 64	20 24	20 85	20 85	20 85	21 48	21 48	22 15	22 15	22 15	22 81	23 50	24 21	24 95
42	$2,963	53,053	$3,145	$3.239	$3.33/	$3,438	$3,543	$3 650	$3,650	$3,650	$3,761	S3./61	$3,8 76	$3.8/6	$3.8/6	$3,994	$4.116	$4,239	$4,368
P/apjreci 0/ iho OW Compensation Oifict?
• •••••••••••• »<• »• Itfitllttlllll
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
R a n f)<s	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	STEP - - - ■>									CEGP Steps	
									I	J		K	1.	M		N	c	p	Q	R	S
S/yr	35,556	36,636	37,740	38,868	40 044	41.256	42.516	43 800	43.800	43,800	45,132	45,132	46,512	46,512	46,512	47.928	49.392	50.868	52,416
	I / uu	1 i b 1	W 14	W t>9	1fj 2	19	2U 44	2 1 Ui>	2 1 (jb	ZTTJb	1 /(J	? 1 7U	Jo	22 JU	Ju	23 U4	23 / b	/4 74 J	ZD ZU
43	S2.992	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,68/	$3,68/	$3,68 7	$3,799	$3,799	$3,915	$3,915	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411
S/yr	35,904	36,996	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688	42,948	44,244	44,244	44,244	45,588	45r588	46,980	45,930	46.980	48.408	49.872	51,384	52,932
	1 / 26	1 ! /y	W 32	wub	19 45	?0 U4	6b	21 2/	21 2/	1/1 2 /	21.92	21 92	22 i>9	22 by	?? by	2 J 2 7	23 98	24 70	/5 45
44	$3,022	$3.114	$3,20/	$3,304	$3,405	S3.509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,724	$3,724	$3,839	$3,839	$3,954	$3,954	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456
r* j. .	' >/'	a	|T> f 1-y fy r\	o r> 4 ri i		O/.' Ci	r-b J r 's ft	rj	4 > r.‘ n o											
																			
$4ir	J 7 43	1/ 9/	18 50	19 06	19 64	70 24	20 85	21 48	21 48	21 48	22 15	22 1 b	22 81	22 cl1	72 81	23 50	24 21	24 95	25 71
45	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3.54.3	S3.6.60	$3,761	$3,761	$3,761	S3.876	$3,876	$3,994	S3,994	S3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501
$/yr	36.636	37./40	38,868	40.044	41.256	42.516	43.800	45.132	45,132	45,132	46.512	4/5.512	47.928	47,928	47.928	49,392	50,868	b?,41(5	b4,U1?
$/hr	17 61	18 14	18 69	19 25	19 83	20 44	21 06	21 70	21 70	21 70	22 36	22.36	23.04	23.04	23 04	23.75	24 46	25 20	25 97
4(5	$3,063	$3.1 75	$3.2/2	$3,371	$3.4/4	$3.5/9	$3.68/	$3,799	$3/99	$3,799	S3.915	$3,915	$4,034	$4,034	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	54,41 1	$4,545
S/yr	36.996	38,100	39.264	40.452	41,688	42.948	44.244	45.588	45,588	45.588	46.980	46.980	40.408	48.408	48,408	49,872	51,384	52,932	54,540
$/hr	17 79	18 32	18 88	19 45	20 04	20 65	21 27	21 92	21 92	21 92	22 59	22 59	23 27	23 27	23 2/	23 98	24.70	25.45	26 22
4/	$3.114	$3,207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,839	$3,839	$3,954	$3,954	$4,0 73	$4.073	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	S4.591
$/yr	37,360	38,484	39,648	40,860	47,108	43,368	44,688	46,068	46,068	46,068	47,448	47.448	48.876	48,876	48,8/6	50,364	51,900	53,472	55,092
$/hr	1 ! 9/	18 50	19 06	19 64	20 24	20 85	21 48	22 15	22 15	22 15	22 81	22 81	23 50	23 50	23.50	24 21	24.95	25.71	26 49
48	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	S3, 761	$3,876	$3,876	$3,876	$3,994	$3,994	$4,116	$4,116	$4.116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638
$/yr	37.740	38,868	40.044	41,256	42.516	43,800	45,132	46,512	46,512	46,512	47.928	47.928	49.392	49,392	49,392	50.868	52,416	54,012	55.656
S/hr	18 14	18 69	19.25	19 83	20 44	21 06	21 70	22 36	22 36	22 36	23 04	23 04	23 75	23 75	23.75	24 46	25.20	25.9/	26 76
	O O 1 9 I"	C '3 ■"I/O	O r> O ■/ a	J TJ		CO Gft 7	/no	« } CM c;	Cl O1R	CM Xs	fT^	flAd	V’lA			IX/1 7 Ab	$4 411	^4	$4 fiA?
																			
s/yr	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688	42,948	44,244	45,588	46,980	46.980	46.980	48,408	48.408	49,872	49.872	49,872	51.384	52,932	54,540	56,184
$/hr	18 3?	18 88	19.45	20 04	20.65	21 27	21 92	22 59	22 59	22 59	23 2/	23 27	23 98	23 98	23 98	24 /0	25 45	26 22	27 01
50	S3.207	S3.304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	53,724	$3,839	$3,954	$3,954	$3,954	$4,073	$4,073	$4,197	$4,197	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731
$/yi	38.484	39.648	40.860	42,108	43,368	44,688	46,068	47.448	4 7,448	47,448	48,8/6	48.876	50,364	50.364	50.364	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,7 72
S/hr	18 50	19 06	19.64	20 24	20 85	21 48	22 15	22 81	22 81	22 81	23 50	23 50	24 21	24 21	24 21	24 95	25 /I	26.49	27 29
51	$3,239	S3.33/	$3,438	53,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$3,994	$3,994	$4,116	$4.116	$4,239	$4,239	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778
S/yr	38,868	40,044	41,256	42,516	43,800	45,132	46.512	47.928	47.928	47,928	49.392	49,392	50,868	50,868	50,868	52,416	54,012	55 656	57 336
$/hr	18.69	19 25	19.83	20 44	21 06	21 70	22 36	23 04	23 04	23 04	23 75	23 75	24 46	24 46	24 46	25 20	25 97	26.76	27 57
	$3,272	33,371	S3.4 74	S3.579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,034	$4,034	$4,156	$4,156	$4,282	tr-^	$4,282	54.411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,327
$/ hr	16 88	19 45	20 04	20 65	21 2/	21 92	22 59	23 27	23 27	23 27	23 98	23 98	24 70	24 70	24 70	25 45	26 22	27 01	27 85
53	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,0/3	$4.0/3	$4.0/3	S4.19Z	$4,19/	$4,325	$4,325	$4,32b	$4,4bt>			
$/yi	39,648	40.860	42.108	43,368	44,668	46,068	4 7.448	48,8/6	48.876	48.8/6	50,354	50,364	51,900	51.900	51.900	53.472	55.092	56.772	58,488
$/hr	19 06	19.64	20.24	20 85	21.48	22.15	22 81	23 50	23 50	23 50	24 21	24 21	24 95	24 95	24 95	25 71	26 49	27 29	28 12
54	53,33/	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	S3.Z61	S3.0/(5	S3.9J4	S4.1 16	$4.11b	$4,1 16	S4,?jy		$4,368	$4, JbS	$4,368	$4,501	$TbJb	$4,77’8	$4,923
$/yr	40.044	41.256	47.516	43, SOO	45,132	46 512	47.928	49,392	49 392	49 39?	bO 868	b0 863	52,416	52 416	52,416	5^ 012	55.656	57.336	59,076
$/hr	19.25	19 83	20.44	21 06	21 70	22 36	23 04	23 75	23 75	23 75	24 46	24 46	25 20	25 20	25 20	25 97	26 76	27 57	28 40
55	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,156	$4,156	$4,282	$4,282	$4,411	$4,411	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972
$/yr	40,452	41,688	42.948	44b244	45,588	46,980	48.408	49,8/2	49,8/2	49.8/2	51.384	51.384	52,932	52,932	52,932	54,540	56,184	57,924	59,664
Prepared by tho UW C on* pc ns ation Office
Mfechvc //U2007
Pngt> 5 of 9
APPENDIX III
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
Rangu	A	B	C	D	E	F		G	< - - - H	S T E P I	■ ■ - ->	K	L	M	N	0	p	Q	CEGP Steps	
																		R	s
S/hr	19 45	20 04	20 65	21 27	21 92	22 59	23 27	23 98	23 98	23 90	24 70	24 70	25 4b	25 45	2b 45	26 22	27 01	27 85	28 68
56	S3.405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	S3,954	$4,073	$4.1 97	$4,197	$4,197	$4,325	$4,325	S4.456	54,456	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023
5/yi	40,860	42,108	43.368	44.686	46,068	47.446	48.8/6	50.364	b0,364	50,364	51.900	51,900	53.4/2	53,4/2	53,47?	55,092	56,7/2	58.488	60,2/6
$/hi	19 64	20 24	20 85	21 48	22 15	22 81	23 50	24 21	24.21	24.21	24 95	24 95	25 71	25 71	25 71	26 49	27 29	28 12	28 98
57	S3.438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	S3.876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,239	$4,239	$4,368	$4,368	S4.501	$4,501	$4,501	$4,638	$4.7/8	$4,923	$5,071
S/yr	41.256	42.516	43,800	45,132	46.512	4/.928	40,392	50.868	50.668	50.868	52,416	52,416	54.012	54 (H?	54.012	55.656	57,336	59,076	60,852
Sr nr	19 83	20 44	21 06	21 70	2? 36	23 04	23 75	24 46	24 46	24 46	25 20	25 20	25 97	25 97	25 97	26 76	27 57	28 40	29 26
58	S3 474	S3.579	$3,687	S3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,282	$4,282	$4.411	$4.4 11	$4,545	$4,545	$4,545	$4,682	$4.82/	$4,972	$5,122
$/yr	41,688	42.948	44.244	45.588	46,980	48,408	49.8/2	51,304	51.384	51,384	52.932	52.932	54,540	54.540	54 540	56,184	5/,924	59,664	61,464
$/hr	20 04	20 65	21 27	21 92	22 59	23 27	23 98	24 70	24 70	24 70	25 45	25 45	26 22	26 22	26 22	2/ 01	27 85	28 68	29 55
59	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,325	$4,325	S4.456	S4.456	$4,591	$4,591	S4.591	$4,731	$4,8/4	$5,023	$5,1/4
S/yr	42/108	43,368	44,688	46.068	4 7.448	48.876	50,364	51.900	51,900	51,900	53,472	53.4/2	55.092	55,092	55,092	56.772	58,480	60,276	62,00 »
S/hr	20 24	20 85	21 48	2? 15	22 61	23 50	24 ?1	24 95	24 95	24 95	25 71	25 71	2.6 49	26 49	26 49	27 29	28 12	28 98	29 85
GO	S3,543	$3,650	$3,761	S3,87 6	S3.994	$4.116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,368	$4,368	$4,501	$4,501	$4,638	$4,638	$4,638	S4.//8	$4,923	$5,071	55,226
$/yi	42,516	43.800	45,132.	46,512	4 / ,928	49.392	50,860	52.416	52,416	52.416	54.012	54.017	55.656	55.656	55.656	5/, 336	59.076	60,852	62,712
$/hr	20 44	21 06	21 70	22 36	23 04	23 Zb	24 46	25 20	25 20	25 20	25 97	25 97	26 76	26 76	26 76	27 b’Z	28 40	29 26	30 1b
61	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,41 1	$4,41 1	S4.545	$4,545	$4,682	S4.682	S4.682	$4,827	$4,972	S5.122	$5,279
$/yr	42,940	44,244	45.588	46,980	48.400	49,872	51,384	52.932	52,932	52.932	54,540	54,540	56.184	56,184	58,184	5 7.924	59.664	61.464	63,348
$/hr	20 65	21 2/	21 92	22 59	23 27	23 98	24 70	25 45	25 45	25 45	26 22	26 2?	27 01	2/ 01	27 01	27 85	28 68	29 55	30 46
52	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,19/	$4,325	$4,450	$4,456	$4,456	$4,591	54,591	$4,731	$4,731	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5.1/4	$5,331
$/yr	43.368	44,6b$	46,068	47,448	40.8/6	50,364	51.900	53.4/2	53,4/2	53.472	55.092	55.092	56.//2	56.7 72	56, Z /2	58p488	60,2/6	62.088	63.9/2
$/h r	20 85	21 48	22 15	22 81	23 50	24 21	24 95	2b 71	25 /1	25 71	26 49	26 49	2/ 29	27 29	27 29	28 12	28 98	29 85	30 76
53	$3,650	S3,761	S3,8 76	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,501	54,501	$4,638	$4,638	$4 7 Z8	$4,778	$4,778	$4,923	$5.0/1	$5,226	$5,385
S/yr	43.800	45,132	46.51?	4 7.928	49,392	50,068	52,416	64.012	54.012	54.012	55,656	55.656	5/ 336	57,336	57.336	59,076	60.852	62./12	64,620
S/hr	21 06	21 70	22 36	23 04	23 75	24 46	25 20	2 b 9 Z	25 97	25 97	26 76	26 76	27 b'Z	27 57	27 57	28 40	29 26	30 15	31 07
64	$3,687	S3.7 99	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,41 1	S4.545	$4,545	S4.545	S4.682	$4,682	$4,827	$4,82/	$4,827	$4,9/2	$5,122	S5 2/9	$5,439
$/yi	44.244	45,588	46.980	40,408	49,8/2	51,384	52,932	54,540	54,540	54,540	56,184	56 184	57.924	57,924	57,924	59.664	61.464	63.348	65,268
S/hr	21 27	21 92	22 59	23 27	23 98	24 70	2 b 45	26 22	26 22	26 22	27 01	27 61	27 85	2/ 85	2/85	28 68	29 55	30 4 fl	31 38
65	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,0/3	$4,19/	$4,325	S4.456	$4,591	$4,591	$4,591	S4.731	34,731	$4,874	S4.874	S4.874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492
$/yr	44.688		47,448	48.876	50,364	51,900	53.472	55,092	55,092	55,092	56.772	56 772	58.488	58,488	58 488	60.276	62.088	63.9/2	65.904
$/hf	21 40	22 15	22 81	23 50	24 21	24 95	25 71	26 49	26 49	26 49	27 29	27 29	28 12	28 12	28.12	28 98	29 85	30 76	31.68
66	$3,761	S3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,638	$4,638	$4,778	$4 778	$4,923	$4,923	$4,923	S5.071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548
S/yr	45.132	46.b1 2	4 7,928	49,392	50.888	52,416	54,012	55,656	55.056	55 656	57.336	57.336	59,076	59 0 76	59.0 76	60.852	62,712	64.670	66.5 Z6
S/hr	21 70	22 36	23 04	23 75	24 46	25 20	25 97	26 7G	26 76	26 76	27 57	27 57	28 40	28 40	28 40	29 26	30 15	31 07	32 01
6/	S3,799	$3,915	S4.O34	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,682	$4,682	$4,827	$4,827	$4,9/2	$4,972	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	S5.604
S/yr	45,588	46.980	48,408	49.8/2	fj 1.384	52.932	54.540	56,184	56.184	56.184	57,924	57.924	59,664	59.664	53.664	61,464	63,348	65,268	67,248
S/hr	21 92	22 59	23 27	23 98	24 70	25 4b	26 22	27 01	27 01	27 01	27 85	27 85	28 68	28 68	28 68	29 55	30 46	31 38	32 33
68	$3,839	$3,954	54,0/3	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	S4./31	$4,731	$4,731	84,874	$4,874	$5,023	$5,023	55,023	$5,174	$5,331	S5.492	$5,658
S/yr	46.068	4Z.44G	48.876	50.364	51.900	53 4 /?	55.092	56,7/2	56.Z/2	56,7/2	58 488	58,488	60 2/6	60.276	60,2/6	62.088	63,972	65 904	67 896
S.'bi	22 15	22 81	23 50	24 21	24 9b	25 Z 1	26 49	2/ 29	27 29	27 29	28 12	28 12	28 98	28 98	28 98	29 8b	30 76	31 68	32 64
E'llcct.vo /11I7007
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements F’ayscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A		C	D	E	F	Cj		H	STEP i	- - R	> j	K	I.		M	N	O	p	Q	CEGP Stops	
																		R	S
69	$3,676	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4./78	$4,778	$4,923	$4,923	$5,071	$5,071	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714
S/yr	At), J I s	4 /,yzts			52,41b	54,uT2	bb.bbb	5/. JJb	b.\33b	5/,J3b	by,u/u	59,0/6	60.852	bU.tlbZ	bU.abZ	/ 1 2	L4,62U	bb.b/b	bb.bbb
$/hr	22 36	23 04	23 75	24 46	25 20	25.9 7	26 76	2/ 5/	27.5/	27 57	28 40	28 40	29 26	29 26	29 26	30 15	31 07	32 01	32 9 /
/()		$4 034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545	34,682	$4,827	$4,827	$4,827	$4,972	$4,972	$5,122	$5,122	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	S5./72
57yr	46.980	48.408	49.872	51.384	52.V32	54.540	56.184	5/ 924	b/,924	b/ry?4	59.664	59,664	fci 1 ,^164	61,464	(51,454	63,348	b5,268	b/.24U	b9 Z64
$/hr	22 59	23 2 7	23 98	24 70	2b 45	26 22	27 01	27 85	2 7 85	27 85	28.68	28.68	29 55	29 55	29 55	30 46	31 38	32 33	33 30
1 4	r\ rz a			C- A '.-'U’		a r n *		.« d •* a	ri' » (I 1 J	O a r> f A	yj* ,* Z"*i ■ I	<-■ y	' i	cT’C * f x	or a r a	rt* r R r a	r*» r Zi	.	<*» z JZI'I	if r z-' t O	<■■ / <> -ir'i
	V1-* l	1			V» 1 , J ! ■■-/		>* * . L-J* V* •		\z 1 , V 1 -	V* ■ , f f	V v r •	^r1 %2 . V< -V	v r l v	v1 ‘--r, r < 1	RV , 1 J 1			—r .	T <-Z Z_		
$/yr	47.446	48.876	50.364	51,900	53.4/2	55,092	56.772	58,488	58,488	58,488	60.2 76	60,276	62,038	62,088	62.088	63,972	65,904	6/ .996	69,948
$/hr	22 81	23 50	24 21	24 95	25 71	26 49	27 29	26 12	28 12	28 12	28.98	28.98	29.85	29.85	29 85	30 76	31 68	32 64	33 63
72	$3,994	$4.116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$4,923	$4,923	$5,071	$5,071	$5,226	$5,226	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,888
S/yr	47.928	49,392	50,868	52,416	54,012	55,656	57,336	59,076	59,0/6	59,076	60,852	60,852	62,712	62,712	62,712	64,620	66,5/6	68,568	70,656
S/hr	23 04	23 75	24 4b	25 20	25 9 7	2b 7b	2/5/	26 4G	28 40	28.40	29 26	29 26	30 15	30 15	30 15	310/	32 01	32 9/	33 9/
73	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4.411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,82/	$4,972	$4,972	34,972	$5,122	$5,122	$5,279	$5,279	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772	$5,946
$/yr	48.408	49,872	51,384	52,932	54,540	56.184	57.924	59.664	59,664	59.664	61.464	61.464	63.348	63.348	63,348	65.268	67,248	69,264	71.352
S/hr	23 2 7	23 98	24 70	25 45	26 22	27 01	27 85	28 68	28 68	28 68	29 55	29 55	30 46	30.46	30.46	31 38	32 33	33.30	34 30
74	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,023	$5,023	35,1 IA	$5,174	$5,331	35,331	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006
$/yr	46,076	50,364	51,900	53,4/2	55,092	56.7 72	58,488	60,2/6	60,276	60,2/6	62,088	62,088	63,9/2	63,972	63,972	65,904	67,896	69,948	72,072
S/hr	23 50	24 21	24 95	25 71	26 49	2 7 29	28 12	26 96	2_a yd	Zb 9b	29 tJb	29 bb	3U /b	30.76	30 /6	31 bb	3Z.64	03 63	34 65
75	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,7/8	$4,923	$5,0/1	$5,071	$5,0/1	$5,226	$5,226	$5,385	$5,385	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,888	$0,066
$/yr	4*3,3'92	50.868	52,416	54,012	55,656	57.336	59,076	60,852	60,852	60,852	62.712	62,712	64,620	64.620	64.620	66,576	68,568	70.656	/2,792
'S/hr	G'X /C	>4 4h	9h JC1	Q f			/in	90 9^	JO 9K	9Q 9K	90 1 c	90 1 c	?1 Cl 7	1 Ci I	nv	'4 7 CH	A 7 <17	J J M /	un
76	$4,166	$4,282	$4,41 1	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,9/2	$5,122	$5,122	$5,122	$5,279	$5,279	$5,439	$5,439	$5,439	$5,604	$5,7/2	$5,946	$6,126
$/yr	49,872	51,384	62,932	54,540	56,184	57,924	59,664	61.464	61,464	61,464	63,348	63,348	65,268	65,268	65.268	67.248	69.264	71,352	73.51 2
S/hr	23 98	24 70	25 45	26 22	27 01	27 85	28 68	29 55	29 55	29 55	30 46	30 46	31.38	31 38	31 38	32.33	33.30	34 30	35.34
77	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,8 74	$5,023	$5,174	$5,174	$5,174	$5,331	$5,331	$5,492	$5,492	$5,492	$5,658	$5,629	$6,006	$6,188
$/yr	60.364	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,772	58,488	60,276	62,088	62.088	62,088	63,972	63,972	65,904	65,904	65.904	67,896	69.948	72,0/2	74,256
S/hr	24 21	24 95	25 71	26 49	27 29	28 12	28 98	29 85	29 85	29 85	30 76	30 76	31 68	31.68	31 68	32.64	33 63	34.65	35 /0
78	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5 226	$5,226	$5,385	$5,385	$5,548	$5,548	$5,548	$5,714	$5,880	$6,066	S6.250
S/yi	60,868	52,416	54,012	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712	62,712	62,712	64,620	64,620	66,5/6	66,576	66,576	68,568	70,656	72,792	75,000
i/hr	24 46	25 20	25 !-)/	26 76	?/ 5 7	28 46	29 26	30 15	30 15	30 15	31 0/	31 0/	32 01	32 01	32 01	3? 9/	33 9/	35 00	36 08
$/yr	51,384	52.932	54.540	56,184	57,924	59,664	61.464	63.348	63,348	63.348	65,268	65.268	87.248	67.248	67.248	69.264	71,352	73,512	75,756
	74 /(J	25 45	26 22	27 01	2/ 85	28 68	29 55	3(J 46	30 4b	36 4b	31 3B	31 38	32 33	32 33	J 2 33	33 30	34 30	35 34	Jb 42
80	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,331	$5,331	$5,492	$5,492	$5,658	$5,658	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006	$6,188	$6,376
S/yi	51,900	53,472	55.092	56,772	58,488	60.276	62,088	63,972	63,972	63,972	65,904	65,904	67,896	67.896	6/,896	69,948	72,072	M.256	76,512
$7 fV	24 95	7 1	2b 49	/ / ?y	17	/J HK	/y db	JU /b	JU /b	JU <b	JI bb	JI bb	J/ b4	37b 4	j/ b4	JJ bJ	34 65	Jb fU	36 78
ft 1	c4 366	$4 501	$4 53g	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	55,365	$5 385	«5 325	$5,548	54g	$5,714	$bL/14	$5/14	c5 388	$6,066	$6 250	$6,439
$/yr	52,416	54.012	55.656	57.336	59,076	60.852	62,712	64,620	64,620	64,620	66,576	66,576	68,568	68,568	68,568	70,656	72,792	75,000	77.268
S/hr	25 20	25 97	26 76	27 57	28 40	29 26	30 15	31 07	31 07	31 07	32 01	32 01	32 97	32 97	32 97	33 97	35 00	36 06	37 15
82	$4,411	$4,545	$4,68?	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,439	$5,439	$5,604	$5,604	$5,772	$5,7 72	$5,7/2	$5,946	$6,126	$6,313	$6,503
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
//V20G/
Page 7 of 9
APPENDIX ill
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E		E	G		<	 H	STEP		>								CEGP Steps	
										J	K	L	M		N	O	p	Q	R	S
$/yr	92.932	54,540	56,184	5 7,924	59,664	61,464	63.348	65,268	65 260	65.268	67.248	67.248	69.264	69,264	69,264	71,352	73,512	75,756	78.036
$/hr	25 45	26 22	27 01	27 85	28 68	29 55	30 46	31 38	31 38	31 38	32 33	32 33	33 30	33 30	33 30	34 30	35 34	36 42	37 52
03	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,492	$5,492	$5,658	$0,668	$5,829	$5,829	S5.629	$6,006	$6,188	$6,376	$6,569
S/yr	53,472	55,092	56.772	58,488	60,276	62.088	63,972	65,904	65,904	65,904	67,896	67,896	69,948	69,948	69.948	72,0'72	74,256	76,512	78,828
S/hr	25 71	26 49	27 29	28 12	28 98	29 85	30 76	31 68	31 68	31 68	32 64	32 64	33 63	33 63	33 S3	34 65	35 70	36 78	37.90
84	$4,501	$4,638	$4, / 78	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,548	$5,548	$5,714	$5,714	$5,888	$5,888	$5,888	S6.066	$6,250	$6,439	$6,635
$/yr	54.012	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712	64,620	66,576	66,576	66,576	68.568	68.568	70,656	Z0.666	70,656	72,792	75,000	77,268	79,620
S/ln	25 97	26 76	27 57	28 40	29 26	30 10	31 07	32 01	32 01	32 01	32 97	32 9 7	33 97	33 97	33 97	35 00	36 06	37 15	38 28
85	$4,545	$4,682	$4,82/	$4,9/2	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	55.604	$5,604	$5,604	$5,772	$5,772	$5,946	$5,946	$5,946	$6,12(3	$6,313	$6,503	S6.701
S/yr	54,540	56,184	57,924	59X>64	61,464	63.348	65.268	67,248	67,248	67,248	69.264	69,264	71,352	71,352	71.352	73,512	70.75ES	78.036	30,412
$/Cr	26 22	27 01	27 85	28 68	29 55	30 46	31 38	32 33	32 33	32 33	33 30	33 30	34 30	34 30	34 30	3b 34	36 42	37 52	38 66
86	$4,591	$4 731	$4,074	$5,023	$5.174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,658	$5,658	$5,829	$5,829	S6.006	$6 006	$6,006	$6,188	$6,376	$6,569	S6.768
S/yr	55,092	on. n?	58,488	60.276	62,088	63.972	65.904	67.896	67,896	67.896	69,948	69.948	72.072	72 072	72.072	74.256	76,512	78,828	81,216
$/hr	26 49	27 29	28 12	28 98	29 85	30 76	31 68	32 64	32 64	32 £54	33 63	33 63	34 65	34 65	34 65	35 70	36 78	37 90	39 05
87	$4,638	$4,7 78	$4,923	$5,0/1	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5./14	$5,714	$5,714	$5,888	$5,888	$6,066	$6,066	$6,066	$6,250	$6,439	$6,635	$6,835
S/yr	55,656	57.336	59,076	60,852	62h712	64,620	66,576	68.568	68,568	68,568	70,656	70,656	/2bZ<32	72,792	72, 792	75,000	77,268	79,620	82.020
S/hr	26 76	2/5/	28 40	29 26	30 15	31 07	32 01	32 97	32 97	32 97	33 97	33 9/	35 60	35 00	35 00	36 06	37 15	38 28	39 43
88	S4 682	$4 827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772	$5,772	$5 772	$5 946	$5,946	$6.1 26	S6.126	$6 126	$6,313	$6,503	$6 701	$6,904
S/yr	06 184	57 924	59.664	61.464	63.348	66.268	6 7,248	6^,264	69,264	69.264	/ 1 0 J	7 1 352	/S.512	73.512	73 512	75 756	78.036	80 412.	02.fi4B
S/hr	?7 01	27 85	28 68	29 55	30.46	31 38	32 33	33 30	33 30	33 30	34 30	34 30	30 34	35 34	30 34	3fS 42	37 52	38 66	39 83
89	54,731	$4,8 74	$5 023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,650	$5,829	$5,829	$5,829	$6,006	$6,006	$6.188	$6 188	$6,188	S6 376	$6,569	$6 768	$6,9/3
S/yr	56,7'//1	58.488	60.2/6	62,088	63,972	65,904	67,896	69,948	69.948	69,948	/2.072	72,0/2	74 256	74,256	74,256	76,512	78,828	81 216	83,676
S/hr	27 29	28 12	28 98	29 85	30 76	31 68	32 64	33 63	33 (S3	33 63	34 60	34 65	35 70	35 70	35 70	36 78	37 90	39 00	40 23
on	$4.7/8	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,888	$5,888	$5,888	$6 066	S6 066	$6,250	$6,250	$6 250	$6,439	$6,635	$6 835	$7,042
s/yr	57,336	59.076	60,852	62,712	64,620	66,5/6	68,568	70,656	70.656	70.656	72.792	72.792	75,000	75,000	75,000	7? 268	79,620	82 020	84,504
S/hr	5 /	28 40	29 26	30 15	31 0/	32 01	32 9 7	33 97	33 97	33 9/	35 00	35 00	36 06	36 06	36 06	37 15	38 28	39 43	40 63
91	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5.7/2	$5,946	$5,946	$5,946	$6,126	$6,126	$6,313	$6,313	$6,313	$6,503	$6,701	$6,904	$7,115
S/yi	07.£l24	59.664	61.464	63,348	65,268	67,248	69.264	71,352	7 1,352	71.352	73,512	73,512	75,756	75,756	75,759	78,036	80,412	82,848	85,380
S/hi	2 7 85	28 68	29 66	30.46	31 38	32 33	33 30	34 30	34 30	34 30	35 34	35 34	36 42	36 42	36 42	3 7 52	38 66	39 83	41 05
92	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006	$6,006	$6,006	$6,188	$6 188	$6,376	$6,376	$6,376	$6,569	$6 768	$6,973	$7,185
S/yi	58,488	60,2/6	62,088	63,972	65,904	67,896	69,948	72,0/2	72.072	72,072	74,256	74,256	76,512	76,512	76,512	78,828	81,216	83,676	86,220
$/hr	28 12	28 98	29 85	30 76	31 68	32 64	33 63	34 65	34 60	34 65	35 70	35 70	36 78	36 78	36 76	37 90	39 05	40 23	41 40
93	$4,923	$5,0/1	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,808	$6,066	$6,066	$6,066	$6,250	$6,250	$6,439	$6,439	$6,439	$6,635	$6,835	$7,042	$7,257
S/yr	59,0/6	60,852	62,712	64,620	66.5/6	£50,008	70,656	72.792	72.792	72/92	75.000	75.000	7 7,268	77,268	77,260	79,620	82,020	84.504	87,084
$/hi	28 40	29 26	30 15	31 07	32 01	32 9 7	33 97	35 00	35 00	35 00	36 06	36 06	37 1$	37 15	37 15	38 28	39 43	40 63	41 87
94	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772	$5,946	$6,126	$6,126	$6,126	$6,313	$6,313	$6,503	$6,503	$6,503	$6,701	$6,904	$7.115	$7,330
S/yr	59,664	61,464	63,348	66.26b	6 7.248	69.264	11,352	t 3.512	/3.512	73,512	75,756	75.755	78,036	78,036	78,036	80,412	82,848	85,380	87,960
S/nr	28 68	29 50	30 40	31 38	32 33	33 30	34 30	35 34	30 34	35 34	36 42	36 42	3 / 5?	37 52	37 5?	38 66	39 83	41 00	42 29
95	$5,023	$5.1/4	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006	$6,188	$6,188	$6,188	$6,376	$6,376	$6,569	$6,569	$6,569	$6,768	$6,973	S/.185	$7,403
S/yr	60,2 76	62.088	63.9/2	65,904	6 7.896	69,948	/2.0/2	/4.20E5	/4,256	/4.25ES	/6.012	76,512	78.828	78,828	78.828	01.216	83,676	86,220	88,836
PfCpatod by the U'-Af Cn<upt.’^h-Tti on Clffu’u
Pacju 6 o( 1
f ffccbwtl ZM/PQO/
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
Rancjo	A	B	c	D	E	F	G	H	STEP	- - - J	K	L	M	N	o	p	Q	CEGP Steps	
																		R	S
$/hr	28 98	29.85	30 76	31 68	32 64	33 63	34 65	35 70	35 70	35 70	36 78	36 78	37 90	37 90	37 90	39 05	40 23	41 45	42 71
Ut>		!>5.;'/b		Sb.b4U	$b. /14	$57W.i	>o.Uob	5lT75u					suyuju	>6.335	bJ!)	>b,835	> /,z	>/ ,«*.*>/	>; /r / /
S/yr	60.852	62712	64.620	66.5 76	68.568	70.656	72.792	75.000	75.000	75.000	77.268	77,268	79,620	79,620	79,620	82,020	84,504	87.084	89.724
$/h<	29 26	30 15	31 07	32 01	32 97	33 97	35 00	36 06	36 06	36 06	37 15	37 15	38 28	38 28	38 28	39 43	40 63	41 87	43 14
y (	Sb. 122	Sb.2/y		$b,6U4	$b.//?	$yPy4b	$6,126	$6,31 3	$6,313		$6,503	$b.bU3	$6,701	$6. 701	$6,701	$6,904	$7.1 15	$7,330	57,55 1
S/yr	61,464	63.348	65,268	67,248	69.264	71.352	73.512	75,756	75,756	75,756	78.036	78,036	80,412	80,412	80.412	82.848	85.380	87,960	90,612
C/>w	on ai.	Qfi zif;	Q -1 QU	QQ QQ	QQ Qi-1	Qzl Qfl	'it; '4^	Qf< yl'J	'Hi /I'J	JR 4 0	v/ co	•77	RR		66	3Q A3	41	4?	43 56
flb	$5,1 74	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006	$6,188	$6,376	$6,376	$6,3/6	$6,569	$6,569	$6.	$6, t oo	$6, /6b	$6.9/3	$7,185	$7,403	$7,626
S/yr	62,088	63,972	65,904	67.896	69,948	72.072	74.256	76.512	76,512	76.512	78,828	78,828	81.216	81,216	H1.216	83.676	86.220	88,836	91,51?
S/hr	29 85	30 76	31 68	32 64	33 63	34.65	35 70	36 78	36 78	36 78	37 90	37 90	39 05	39 05	39 05	40 23	41 45	42 71	44 00
99	56,226	35,385	$5,548	55,714	$5,888	$6,066	$6,250	$6,439	$6,439	$6,439	$6,635	$6,635	$6,835	$6,835	$6,835	$7,042	$7,257	$7,47 7	$7,704
S/yr	62,712	64.620	66,576	68,568	70,656	72.792	75.ODO	77,268	77,268	77,268	79,620	79.620	82.020	82.020	82.020	84,504	87,084	89.Z24	92,448
S/hr	30 15	31 07	32 01	32 97	33.97	35.00	36.06	37 15	37.15	37 15	38 28	38 28	39 43	39 43	39 43	40 63	41 87	43 14	44 45
Prepared by (he UW Comptsitialion Ofhco
Lffcctive 7/V200/
Paytt 9 uf 9
APPENDIX IV
LAYOFF SENIORITY UNITS
1.	Office of the President
2.	Applied Physics Laboratory
3.	Libraries
4	Vice President for Minority Affairs
5.	College of Ocean and Fishery Sciences
6.	College of Engineering
7.	College of Architecture and Urban Planning
8.	School of Law
9.	Daniel Evans School of Public Affairs
10.	School of Social Work
11.	College of Forest Resources
12.	Business School
13.	College of Education except for Experimental Education Uni1
14.	Experimental Education Unit
15.	Undergraduate Education
16.	School of Dentistry
17.	School of Nursing
18.	School of Pharmacy
19.	School of Public Health and Community Medicine
20.	Facilities Services (except Transportation Office)
21.	Transportation Office
22.	Arts and Sciences - Arts
23.	Arts and Sciences-Humanities
24.	Arts and Sciences - Social Sciences
25.	Arts and Sciences - Natural Sciences
26.	Arts and Sciences - Biology, Psychology, Speech and Hear1 g, Earth and Space Sciences, Atmospheric Sciences
27.	Arts and Sciences - Dean’s Office and Burke Museum
28.	Vice President of Student Affairs except Housing and Food :• ervices
29.	Housing and Food Services
30.	Vice President for University Relations
31.	Vice President for Development and Alumni Relations
32.	Office of the Executive Vice President
33.	Vice President for Human Resources
34.	Publications Services
35.	Purchasing and Stores
36.	Financial Accounting, Equipment Inventoiy Office
37.	Payables Administration, Travel
38.	Student Fiscal Services
39.	Grant & Contract Accounting, Payroll, Management Account ig & Analysis, Treasury, Controller’s Office, Other Financial Management I nits
75
Appendix IV - Layoff Seniority Units (Cont'd)
40.	Special Employment Programs
41.	Academic Services; Center for Educational Resources
42.	Health Sciences Administration - Center on Human Development and Disability; Research Center in Oral Biology; Alcohol and Drug Abuse Institute
43.	Health Sciences Administration - Hall Health; Environmental Health and Safety
44.	Regional Primate Research Center
45.	All Other - Budget and Administration, Health Sciences and Medical Affairs, News and Community Relations, HSC Minority Student Program, Institute on Aging, IAIMS, Office of the Executive Director
46.	Office of the Vice President for Medical Affairs and Dean of School of Medicine administrative/program units including the Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs: Biomolecular Structure & Design Program, Molecular and Cell Biology Program, and Program for Neurobiology and Behavior
School of Medicine Departments to be broken down as follows:
47.	Anesthesiology
48.	Biochemistry
49.	Biological Structure, Bioengineering, Microbiology, Genome Sciences, Department of Neurology
50.	Clinical Research Center
51.	Comparative Medicine
52.	Family Medicine
53.	Immunology
54.	Laboratory Medicine
55.	Medical History and Ethics, Medical Education
56.	Medicine
57.	Neurological Surgery
58.	Obstetrics/Gynecology
59.	Ophthalmology
60.	Orthopedics
61.	Otolaryngology
62.	Pathology
63.	Pediatrics
64.	Pharmacology
65.	Physiology and Biophysics
66.	Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences
67.	Radiation Oncology, Radiology
68.	Rehabilitation Medicine
69.	Surgery
70.	Urology
76
Appendix IV - Layoff Seniority Units (Cont'd)
Computing and Communications:
71.	Computing and Communications, Office of the VP, Business Finance, TV & Video Technologies
72.	IT Infrastructure
73.	Information Systems
Harborview Medical Center
74.	Executive Director - Compliance, Community Relations, Fin; ice, Development. Chief Operating Officer, Hiring authority for HkC and all other units not listed below
75.	Associate Administrator - Clinical Support Services
76.	Associate Administrator - Ambulatory Ca ‘e and Allied Care - en/ices
77.	Associate Administrator - Patient Care Service
78.	Associate Administrator, Finance
79.	Medical Director
UW Medical Center
80.	Executive Director, UWMC and all other units not listed belov
81.	Associate Administrator - Chief Nursing Officer
82.	Associate Administrator-Planning, Marketing, Design & Co struction
83.	Associate Administrator - Patient Financi al Services and Ad’ lifting
84.	Associate Administrator - Chief Financial Officer
85.	Associate Administrator - Essential Services
86.	Assistant Administrator - Support Services
87.	Associate Administrator - Ambulatory Seivices
88.	Associate Administrator - Service Line
89.	Senior Operations Officers
90.	Associate Executive Director
91.	Medical Director’s Office
92.	Planning and Budgeting - Vice Provost for
93.	Provost, Office of the - all Provost’s units not delineated as : jparate units
94.	Educational Outreach - Vice President for
95.	Vice Provost for Research and Dean of Graduate School
96.	University of Washington, Bothell
97.	University of Washington, Tacoma
77
REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLO EES
APPENDIX V
78
APPENDIX V
REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
Definition. The term Regular Temporary Employee shall meai an hourly paid employee doing bargaining unit work for more than 350 hours bu less than 1,050 hours in any twelve (12) consecutive month period from an inc I'idual's original employment date in an hourly paid bargaining unit classification >r from January 1, 2004, whichever is later, exclusive of overtime worked.
Only the following language from Articles of the Agreement <■ iply to Regular Temporary Employees:
PREAMBLE AND PURPOSE
Includes Regular Temporary Employees for purposes of descript in of bargaining unit.
NONDISCRIMINATION/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
Nondiscrimination. Neither the Employer nor the Union shall dis iminate against any employee by reason of the following status: age, sex (exce it where age or sex is a bona fide occupational qualification), race or ethnic oric n, color, creed, national origin, religion, disability, disabled or Vietnam era iiteran, political affiliation, marital status, sexual orientation, or membership or n< imernbership in a union
Applicable Law, The Union and the Employer agree to abide b> :tnd support the applicable statutory and administrative laws pertaining to equal opportunity and elimination of employment inequities. In order to promote his policy, the Employer will continue its affirmative action program for qualifie women, ethnic and racial minorities, persons of disability, persons age forty (40) and over, disabled veterans, and Vietnam era veterans.
Sexual Harassment. No employee shall be subjected to disc mination in the form of sexual harassment, currently defined in the Universit. of Washington Handbook (Volume 4, Part 1, Chapter 2) as Ihe use of one's air nority or power, either explicitly or implicitly, to coerce another into unwanted st ;ual relations or to punish another for his or her refusal, or as the creation by ;■ member of the University community of an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or educational environment, through verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature,
Complaints. A discrimination complaint may be filed with the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office and/or as i grievance in accordance with Article 4 of this Agreement. Employees may also file
79
discrimination complaints with appropriate federal or state agencies. The parties agree to encourage the filing of discrimination complaints through the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office.
UNION MEMBERSHIP, FAIR SHARE AND DUES DEDUCTION
Union Membership and Fair Share Fee. The Union shall fairly represent all employees covered by this Agreement. Therefore, as a condition of employment, Regular Temporary Employees shall, within sixty (60) days of having worked more than 350 hours from an individual's original date of employment into an hourly paid bargaining unit classification, or from January 1, 2004, whichever is later, either execute a union membership and payroll deduction form or a fair share payroll deduction form and shall have the appropriate fee deducted from their payroll checks. Any employee who is a member of the Union may voluntarily withdraw their membership from the Union and pay a fair share fee by giving written notice to the Union within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement.
Employees who are determined by the Public Employment Relations Commission (PERC) to satisfy the religious exemption requirements of RCW 41.80.100 shall make payments to the Union equivalent to regular union dues and initiation fees for purposes within the program of the Union as designated by the employee that would be in harmony with his or her conscience.
Dues Deduction. Upon written authorization by an individual employee, the Employer shall provide for the semi-monthly payroll deductions of union dues and fair share fees which are uniformly applied to all members in those bargaining units in which the Union is the exclusive bargaining agent.
Indemnification. The Union and each employee authorizing the assignment of wages for the payment of Union dues hereby undertakes to indemnify and hold the University harmless from all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that may arise against the University for or on account of any deductions made from the wages of such employees.
Remittance of Dues. The Employer shall electronically transmit to the Union on the first bank working day after each payday all dues and fair share fees deducted for that pay period in those bargaining units for which the Union is the exclusive bargaining representative.
Listing of Employees. The Employer shall provide the Union with a semi-monthly listing of all employees with union dues or fair share fee deductions in the designated bargaining units and a monthly listing of all employees in the designated bargaining units who terminated their employment, or changed their employment status, classification or work location. The employer shall provide
80
this information electronically along with bargaining unit pay ites and home addresses.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Definition. A grievance, within the meaning of this Agreement, .hall be defined as any alleged misapplication or misinterpretation of the terms of 'his Agreement.
A grievant, within the meaning of this Agreement, shall be defined as an employee within a bargaining unit covered by this Agreemen who alleges a grievance, the Union alleging a grievance, or the Employer undiT the terms and conditions of this Agreement. An individual grievant may not inv ke Steps Three or Four of the grievance procedure without authorization 1 :>m the Union. Grievances involving discipline shall be submitted to the level ■ : supervision or designee having authority to act.
Responsibilities. The Union shall prevail upon all employees i the bargaining units and especially stewards to make a diligent and serious aiiampl: to resolve complaints at the lowest possible level. The Employer, likew e, shall prevail upon its supervisory personnel to cooperate fully with the stewards and other Union representatives in the prompt resolution of any grievances hat may arise.
Employee Grievance Rights. Any employee who believes h /she has been aggrieved may personally seek relief from that condition by fit ig a grievance, irrespective of any supervisor's opinion of the grievance's alidity. In the presentation of grievances the employees shall be safe from restraint, interference, discrimination, or reprisal.
Time Limitations. An extension of the time limitations as ipulated in the respective steps below may be obtained by mutual consen1 of the parties. Failure of the employee to comply with the time limitations with, njt a request for time extension shall constitute automatic withdrawal of the grievance. Failure of the Employer to comply with the time limitations without a equest for time extension shall establish the right of the employee to proceed t< the next step of the grievance procedure. For the purposes of calculating time r 'quirements, the first day shall be the day following the day on which the employ .h was aware, or should have reasonably been aware of the issue giving rise I the grievance. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be included in the cal elation of days except that the final day may not be on a Saturday, Sunday o holiday but will end at the close of the first working day following the Satui lay, Sunday or holiday.
Pay Status - Meetings. Meetings and discussions on the g evance held in connection with this grievance procedure shall normally be leld during the University's regular business hours, and no deduction in pa\ status shall be made for the grievant or steward for reasonable time spent in r ich meetings or
81
discussions during the employee's scheduled duty hours. Time off for employees and stewards shall be granted by supervision following a request, but in consideration of job responsibilities. If the requested time off cannot be granted, the parties shall arrange for time off at the earliest possible time thereafter.
Grievance Withdrawal. A grievance may be withdrawn in writing at any time by mutual agreement of both parties and if withdrawn shall not be resubmitted.
Employee Representation. The Union as exclusive representative of bargaining unit employees is the responsible representative of said employees in grievance matters.
The parties agree that decisions rendered under the prior HEPB process shall not be determinative or precedential for any issue raised under the grievance procedure.
Steps of the Grievance Procedure. All grievances shall be processed only through Step 2, except grievances alleging inaccurate or untimely payment of hourly wages, or failure by the Employer to follow the terms of Article 30 below, which may be processed through Step 4. As long as the hourly rate paid is not lower than the lowest step in the salary range for a position’s assigned classification, and the Employer has followed the terms of Article 30 below, the hourly rate paid is not subject to the grievance procedure.
Step One: Presentation. Within thirty (30) calendar days of the occurrence of a situation, condition, or action which caused the grievance, the empioyee(s) affected and/or the steward or Union representative shall present the grievance to the employee's immediate supervisor for resolution. Presentation of the grievance shall include a short written description of the subject of the grievance and the contract Articles allegedly violated. If the grievance is directed against the employee's immediate supervisor, the grievance may be presented to the next higher level of supervision. The parties shall attempt to meet to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days. The supervisor will respond within five (5) calendar days of the meeting.
Step Two: If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in Step One, and the employee wishes to pursue the matter further, said grievance shall be put into writing on the authorized grievance form and referred to the department head or designee or to the next appropriate level of management and the Office of Labor Relations within fifteen (15) calendar days after the decision from Step One. The date of alleged occurrence of the grievance shall be specified. The parties shall attempt to meet to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days following the date of written submittal. At this step the Union agrees to cite all known sections of the Agreement which allegedly have been violated and to provide a copy to the Human Resources Office and Office of Labor Relations. The grievant may be represented by a steward and union staff representative.
82
The University will be represented by the aopropriate management official, or designee, a representative from the Office of Labor Relation - and a human resources consultant, if desired by the University. The Universi;, will respond in writing within ten (10) calendar days.
Step Three: Grievance Mediation. If a satisfactory settlement !■ not reached at Step Two, the grievant with authorization from the Union may s limit the written grievance to the Office of Labor Relations requesting grievance nediation within fifteen (15) calendar days.
Upon mutual agreement, the Employer and the Union shall rei uest, within ten (10) calendar days, grievance mediation services of the Pul ic Employment Relations Commission (PERC). If those services are unavail; ole on a timely basis, the parties shall immediately request a list of grievance midiators from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS), The cost f the mediation shall be borne equally by both parties.
Step Four: Arbitration. If a satisfactory settlement is not reache at Step Two or Step Three, either of the signatory parties Io this Agreement nay submit the grievance to binding arbitration. Such submittal must be made i ithin fifteen (15) calendar days following the conclusion of Step Two or Step Thi ie. Within sixty (60) calendar days of the execution of the Agreement, the parti; ■ > agree to meet to establish a permanent panel of three (3) - five (5) ait n rators. These arbitrators shall be assigned cases by the parties on a rotatii basis. If the arbitrator is not available to hear the case within sixty (60) cale dar days of the decision by either party to go to arbitration, the parties will :>ntact the next arbitrator in the rotation. If no arbitrator can hear the case "/ithin sixty (60) calendar days, the case will be assigned to the arbitrator who ci ri hear the case on the earliest date. The appointment to the panel will be for first eighteen (18) months of the Agreement at which time either party rm ■< decide not to continue the appointment. If an individual arbitrator decides t< remove his/her name from the panel or if one or more members of the panel a a not continued by either party, the parties will meet to decide whether to substil te an additional name(s).
Until the panel is implemented, the parties will select an ait" rator using the procedure in the November 16, 1999-November 15, 2002 contr ct. The parties agree that the arbitrator shall have no power to render a decis on that adds to, subtracts from, alters or modifies in any way the terms and । unditions of the Agreement, The parties further agree that tie decision of the irbitrator will be final and binding upon all parties. The cost of the arbitratioi shall be borne equally by the parties and each party shall bear the full cost of p esenting its own case. The arbitrator's decision shall be made in writing and the bitrator shall be encouraged to render the decision within thirty (30) calendar da1. > of Ihe close of the arbitration.
83
In cases where a grievance is moved to arbitration, and the parties did not avail themselves of Step Three: Grievance Mediation, the moving party shall have the unilateral right to demand a pre-arbitration settlement conference. These conferences shall not delay the arbitration process, and may be held with or without the presence of the arbitrator, at the option of the moving party. In the event that an arbitrator is present, the cost of the arbitrator's participation shall be borne equally by the parties.
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Hours of work for Regular Temporary Employees shall be established by the employing official. Work assigned in excess of forty (40) hours in a seven (7) day work week constitutes overtime. Overtime hours will be compensated at a rate of one-and-one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s straight time hourly rate.
EMPLOYMENT
Policy. It is the policy of the University to encourage job advancement. It is the responsibility of each employee seeking employment to provide the employer with complete information regarding the employee's skills and qualifications relative to the position sought. The Employer will make the application process, necessary submittals and the essential skills of the vacant position clear to prospective applicants.
Notice that applications are being accepted for bargaining unit positions will be published by the Employer and will be made available in places intended to reach bargaining unit employees for a minimum of seven (7) days prior to the closing of the application period. The University may limit the scope of the posting area if applications only from within the posting area are accepted. Active Regular Temporary Employees may apply for department/unit specific openings if they have worked in the department/unit within the past calendar year,
The Employer will determine if applicants possess the essential skills required of the position. Essential skills are the minimum qualifications listed in the job description for the classification and any specific position requirements. The Employer will refer all bargaining unit applicants (including Regular Temporary Employees) possessing the essential skills prior to referring any non-bargaining unit applicants. In accordance with applicable law, affirmative action goals will be considered when filling vacancies.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Regular Temporary Employees are subject to all terms of the Agreement at such time as a Regular Temporary Employee is appointed to a monthly paid
84
bargaining unit position This includes the requirement to serve u probationary period.
A Regular Temporary Employee who is hired into the same job wr lout a break in service, in the same unit through open recruitment will havi their Regular Temporary hours of service apply toward their probationary leriod for that position up to a maximum of three (3) months of the six (6) mor h probationary period.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Policies. It is the Employer's intent to make reasonable and prop' r provisions for the maintenance of appropriate standards of health and ssi within the workplace. The Employer shall comply with applicable Federal; id State health and safety legislation and regulations and has designated re University’s Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Department to advi a and monitor compliance with such standards.
When it is established through medical documentation that a dis > bling condition or physical limitation prohibits continued performance of the empl wee's assigned duties, the employer will attempt to assist the employee throug1 reassignment, transfer, or reconfiguration of job duties.
Employees who believe that working conditions present a hazar to their health should first alert their supervisor. All employees are encouc<jed to contact Environmental Health and Safety to report hazardous conditions If a supervisor or Environmental Health and Safety declares a work site to be lazardous and unfit for work, affected employees may be assigned to alternate work sites until the hazardous condition is rectified. If assignment to an alternei ve work site is not possible and the supervisor decides to send the employee; home, those employees sent home will receive their regular pay for all time le employee is scheduled to work on the day of the incident. For all subse juenl. days the employee(s) may use accrued leave as appropriate.
Health Examinations. The Employer shall provide at no cost t< the employee, such medical tests or health examinations as may be required ; ; a condition of employment.
Safety. All work shall be performed in conformity with a iplicable safety standards. Employees are encouraged to immediately report an1, unsafe working conditions to their supervisor. No employee shall be disciplined 1 >r reporting any such condition nor be required to work or to operate equipment v. ien he/she has reasonable grounds to believe such action would result in immi .liate danger to life or safety until the condition has been reviewed by a Union Steward and a higher level of supervision. If the matter is not resolved s msfactorily, the supervisor or employee may request a decision from the Univers । y's Department of Environmental Health and Safety or the Department of Labor a id Industries.
85
Safety Committees. Bargaining unit employees shall be appropriately represented on any organizational health and safety committees for areas in which they are employed, as detailed in Administrative Policy Statements 10.11. Any department or unit committee also dealing with health and safety issues in work areas shall appropriately involve bargaining unit employees. It shall also be appropriate for either party to raise health and safety concerns at the Joint Union/Management Committee.
Ergonomics. The Employer shall maintain a separate section in the Administrative Policy Statements that reference the ergonomic requirements of WAC 296-62-051. Further ergonomic guidelines shall be referenced on the Environmental Health and Safety department website www.ehs.washington.edu.
Workplace Review. The parties recognize that there are several elements in a work site which may affect individual health, comfort and productivity. The Employer shall conduct routine hazard assessments of any worksite that may contain health hazards as required by WAC. The Employer shall provide awareness education to help reduce identified hazards. Employees may also request a workplace review by the employing department and employees shall be given the results of the review.
RECORDS
Bargaining Unit. A current list of names, classifications, and departments of all bargaining unit employees will be provided annually to the Union at cost.
Personnel File. To the extent personnel records are kept for Regular Temporary Employees, upon written request by an employee to their area Human Resources Office (official personnel file) or department manager (departmental file), the employee or employee's representative shall have access to the employee's official or departmental personnel file for review. Upon the employee's request, the employee may receive copies of any materials in the file (requests for reasonable numbers of copies will be provided at no cost to the employee; employees may be charged a fee for requests for large numbers of copies). Prior to such review the Director or designee may remove any letters of reference which were obtained through assurances of confidentiality to a third party. Such letters shall only be used for the purposes of hiring and/or promotional application.
Employees shall be provided a copy of all adverse material placed in the official file at the time the material is included in the file.
(a)	Information shall be retained as long as it has a reasonable bearing on the employee's job performance or upon the efficient and effective management of the institution.
86
Adverse material or information related to employee miscc iducl or alleged misconduct which is determined to be false and all sue information in situations where the employee has been fully exoneratec of wrong doing shall be promptly destroyed.
(b)	Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, an institi ion may retain information relating to employee misconduct or alleged mil tonduct, if:
(1)	The employee requests that the information be retain d; or
(2)	The information is related to pending legal action or I jal actions may reasonable be expected to result.
The employee shall have the right to have placed in his/h« own personnel file a statement of rebuttal or correction of information cor ained in the file within a reasonable period of time after the employee bee nes aware that the information has been placed in the file.
Request for Information. To the extent such records are b-pt for Regular Temporary Employees, the Employer shall make available to ie Union, upon written request, records and reports regarding personnel issue; such as home addresses, employment date and reclassification requests, c ncerning those classifications in the bargaining units, provided that this shall not require the Employer to disclose any records not subject to disclosure t ider the Public Disclosure Act of the State of Washington or to maintain or as ^mble any data which it would not otherwise assemble for its own use. Info nation shall be provided electronically where feasible.
TRAVEL PAY AND WORK TIME
General. Any employee required to travel to a place of work o ler than his/her regular official duty station shall be reimbursed for travel co: 8 if eligible, in accordance with University of Washington Administrative Pc ::y Statements, Section 70.
FACILITIES
Meeting Facilities. The Union shall be permitted to use the Em;, loyer's facilities for meetings provided advance notice is given to the Emplc er, appropriate space is available on the date requested, and meetings are he I in accordance with the Employer’s policy on this subject.
Bulletin Boards.
Space shall be made available to the Union on bulletin areas where bargaining unit members work or frequent,"
boards in those r the posting of
87
notices and information pertaining to official business of the Union. Such posted material is to be signed by a Union representative.
(b) If it is established that adequate space is not available at a convenient location, the Union may provide for and have installed a bulletin board at its own expense, provided the size and location of said bulletin board shall be mutually agreeable to the Union representative and the Employer,
Employee Facilities.
(a)	Restrooms and attendant facilities shall be provided as required by the State of Washington Department of Labor and Industries. Dressing rooms and/or lockers shall be provided to employees in those classifications where a change of clothing is required by the Employer.
(b)	The adequacy of employee facilities, including sanitary supply dispensers for female employees, shall be a proper subject for discussion by the Joint Union-Management Committee.
JOINT UNION MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Committee Purpose and Membership. A Joint Union-Management Committee is established to provide a forum for communications between the two (2) parties and to deal with matters of general Union/Employer concern. The committee's function will be limited to an advisory capacity and shall not include any decisionmaking or collective bargaining authority.
Committee membership shall consist of three (3) bargaining unit employees and a Union staff representative and four (4) Employer representatives to include the Executive Director for Labor Relations or designee.
The Employer will discuss with representatives of the Union significant changes affecting institutional conditions of employment generally affecting bargaining unit employees sufficiently in advance of Ihe targeted implementation date of said changes so that reasonable alternative proposals can be adequately considered by the Joint Union-Management Committee. Diversity, child care and tuition exemption shall be considered appropriate subjects for the Joint Union-Management Committee.
Meetings. Committee meetings may be requested by an authorized representative of either party. Requests for a quarterly meeting shall be honored; however, once convened, the committee may meet more or less frequently as mutually agreed between the parties.
At least one (1) week's notice shall be given to members of any agreed upon meeting and the agenda. Committee meetings shall normally be held during
88
University business hours and at a mutually agreeable time and ate. Employee members shall experience no loss in salary for meeting partici, ation; however, meeting times are not construed as work time and no overtime ihall be claimed or paid for meetings attended outside the employee members’ egular working hours.
Limitations. Committee meeting topics shall be limited to subjeci - of group rather than individual concern, and the committee shall not discuss grii nances properly processed under Article 4 of the Agreement. Further, it is not i' ended that this Article obligate in any way either party to negotiate on personnel natters covered in this Agreement or to alter, limit, restrict, or reduce prerogative > of either party otherwise provided in this Agreement.
Use of Temporary Employees. Issues concerning the us i of temporary employees who work beyond 1,050 hours from the employee’s c ginal University of Washington temporary employment date, shall be an approx rate subject for discussion in the Joint Union Management Committee meetin.. Such issues may include, but will not be limited to, the continuous and jngoing use of temporary employees as well as the possibility of altern; :e employment opportunities.
CONTRACT DISTRIBUTION
The University and the Union shall share the cost of printing th' ■ Agreement for present and new employees in the bargaining units.
Distribution.
(a)	The employer shall include a copy of the Agreement at each Reference Station and shall provide a copy to new > nployees in the bargaining unit.
(b)	The Union shall provide a copy of the Agreer ent to present employees in the bargaining units. The Emph /er shall allow distribution through campus mail.
New Employees
(a)	The Employer shall provide to the Union, at least 1 lonthly, a list of new employees in the bargaining units, including :he employee's name, classification, department, and mail stop.
(b)	The Employer will distribute to each new employee i the bargaining units, with a copy of this Agreement, a letter from ie Union. Such letter will be provided to the Employer by the Union md the contents of the letter shall be mutually agreeable.
89
(c)	A bargaining unit member designated by the Union shall be granted paid release time to attend new employee orientation and/or new employee coffee hours scheduled by the University. Such release time will be subject to the operational needs of the department.
COMPENSATION
Salary schedules for Regular Temporary Employees shall be incorporated into this Agreement as Appendices II, and III.
If a bargaining unit Regular Temporary Employee leaves an appointment and is later reemployed by the same departmenVunit in the same or substantially similar appointment, the employee will be paid an hourly rate not less than their previous wage in the department.
All positions filled by Regular Temporary Employees shall continue to receive the premiums and differentials they received prior to July 1, 2005, including any increases in the amounts of those premiums and differentials as provided for in this Agreement.
NO STRIKE/LOCKOUT
The Employer and the Union acknowledge that this Agreement provides, through the grievance procedure and through other administrative remedies, for an orderly settlement of grievances or disputes which may arise between the parties. Accordingly, the parties agree that the public interest requires the uninterrupted performance of all University services and to this end pledge to prevent or eliminate any conduct contrary to that objective. Therefore, during the life of the Agreement the Employer shall not lockout any of the employees as a result of a labor dispute or grievance or disputes on personnel matters nor shall the Union condone or authorize a work stoppage, work slowdown, or any other curtailment of work in the bargaining units.
Should the employees engage in any unauthorized concerted action, a Joint Union/Management Committee shall immediately convene and shall continue to meet until the dispute is settled, and the employees involved shall immediately return to work and continue working. Any employee who refuses to perform his/her work may be subject to disciplinary action.
There will be no strike or lockout regarding any matters pertaining to the contents of this Agreement.
Any action of the Employer in closing the University during a general strike, riot, or civil disturbance for the protection of the institution, its property, or its employees shall not be deemed a lockout.
90
Any action of an employee in refusing to cross, for his/her own pr sonal safety, a picket line at the Employer's premises in case of an officially de Jared strike by some other employee organization or union representing employees working for the Employer shall not constitute a violation of this clause of te Agreement, provided, however, that such a decision shall be made freely t - the employee without coercion by either the Employer or the Union and provi ed further that nothing herein shall preclude the Employer from continuing o operate the University with or without temporary replacement personnel.
SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT AND SAVINGS CLAUSE
Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained I -j rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enact ■ d legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalids1 nn of such part of provision of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining lortions hereof; provided, however, upon such invalidation the parties agree imrr' diately to meet and negotiate such parts or provisions affected. The rem ining parts or provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
DURATION
This Agreement shall become effective July 1, 2007 and remain i force through June 30, 2009. Automatic renewal shall extend the terms of thi Agreement for one year at a time, unless either party serves 1 he other with writtr i notice at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the anniversary date of its inte t to negotiate a new Agreement. Should notice be served, bargaining shall begin within thirty (30) calendar days following the date of the notice for the purpo- of negotiating a new Agreement.
91
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER A - UNIVERSITY BUDGET COMMIT EE
July 1,2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone Way N. Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
It is my understanding that during contract negotiations, the Unit i has expressed an interest in having access to the University Budget Committee UBC) in order to provide input on budget decisions affecting bargaining unit mt nbers,
The Executive Vice President has been requested by the Univer ity Budget Committee to provide summary information to a number of groui and organizations having an interest in budget decisions, which may iffect staff employees. In this regard, the Executive Vice President has in t1 e past met with your Union's Policy Board, and it would be my intent to do so in ie future at your request.
Further, in Ihe event the University is required by external mand.'1 :e to reduce its budget during the term of a biennium, this office will provide the 'nion with a copy of any budget reduction plan developed by the UBC and sc icit your comments regarding the plan prior to its submission to the Rege zs for their review and action.
Sincerely,
Weldon I ring
Executive Vice Preside I
University of Washingtc ’
92
Seattle. Washington 98'. 9 5
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER B - KRONOS
July 1, 2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone WayN.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
The University has the right to implement the "Kronos” timekeepi >g system sometime during the life of the Agreement. Tne University will m {ify the Union at least 60 days in advance and agrees to consult with the Union o ;>r implementation issues.
Sincerely,
Weldon Ihrig c ' Executive Vice Preside, I University of Washingtc i
93
Seattle. Washington 98:95
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER C - REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLO EES
July 1, 2007
Ms. Kirn Cook, President
SEIU Local 925
3647 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
In addition to the language contained in Appendix V - Re: ,jlar Temporary Employees, the parties agree to the following
After initial inclusion in a Local 925 bargaining unit, an employe will continue to be included in the bargaining unit in subsequent years if the 3f I hour threshold was met in the previous year.
The University will give a Union-provided “Welcome Letter” and Union-provided payroll deduction form to each member of the bargaining unit; ; they crass the 350-hcur threshold.
The Union and the University agree that an employee signe ire on a Union Payroll Deduction form is valid from year to year as long as a i gular temporary employee remains in the bargaining unit.
Kim Cook President SEIU Local 925
Weldon Ihrig
Executive Vice President University of Washington
94
Seattle. Was lung tin
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER D - REPRESENTATION
July 1, 2007
Ms, Kim Cook, President
SEIU Local 925
3747 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
The University agrees not to oppose the Union’s effort to add I the bargaining unit employees working in the non-healthcare titles outlined by it proposal to the University on May 25, 2006. The University will reply to Pui ic Employment Relations Commission (PERC) requests for information .vithin PERC’s prescribed timeline. The University will alsc agree to any PE; C hearing date within four (4) weeks of the filing of any petition. The parties ca mutually agree to the extension of these deadlines.
Sincerely,
Welcon Ihrig
Executive Vice Presidei
University of Washingtc
95
Seattle, Washington 9S19?
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER E - PROFESSIONAL STAFF EXEMP' ONS
July 1, 2007
Ms. Kirn Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone Way N. Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
The Union agrees to an expedited review of any future proposal for professional staff exemptions as follows:
1.	The University will make reallocations based on ai plication of the professional staff exemption criteria sett forth in RCW 41. 6.070 (including any permanent and substantive changes in the duties, tsponsibilities or qualifications of the position).
2.	The Union and the University agree to a procedure at includes the provision of information by the University and a meeting nth the Union to discuss and resolve issues regarding the transfer o1 work from the bargaining unit within four (4) weeks of the University’s ii tial notice to the union for a proposed professional staff exemption.
3.	All negotiations regarding transfer of any work from thi bargaining unit shall be concluded by the meeting described above, ur css both parties agree to an extension.
4.	Disputes regarding professional staff exemptions shall bi resolved by the classification review hearing officer in Article 14 <■ the collective bargaining agreement. The Hearing Officer shall make his/her decision based on the criteria outlined in paragraph one (T above. If the employee appeals the exemption determination in an^ other forum the Union cannot pursue the determination through the pn cess outlined in Article 14.
The Union agrees to withdraw all current challenges to the Unix irsity’s proposed professional staff exemptions dated July 1, 2005 to August 16,I I06.
96
Seattle, Washington ^819.5
Joint Union Management Committee - The University and SEIU Local 925 have a shared interest in meeting to discuss the current framework in which University staff are reallocated from the bargaining unit to professional staff positions.
During the terms of the Agreement, the parties will work in good faith to mutually agree upon a framework that is more consistent with the interests of both parties.
Unless mutually agreed to by the parties these provisions will expire with the expiration of the contract on June 30, 2009.
Executive Vice President
University of Washington
President
SEIU Local 925
97
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER F - HEALTH CARE SETTLEMEN
July 1, 2007
Ms. Kirn Cook, President
SEIU Local 925
3647 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
As a full and comolete settlement of the grievance over health c; a funding rates and employee contributions for fiscal years 2006 and 2007, emp nyees shall receive a one-time payment of seven hundred and fifty-six dollar ($756.00) to be dispersed on July 25, 2007 only Io employees who are:
a.	Insurance eligible for the month of June, 2007, anc
b.	Covered by a 2007 - 2009 Collective Bargaining A reernent negotiated pursuant to RCW 41.80.
Sincerely,
Executive Vice Preside I
University of Washingtc '
98
Seattle, Washington