-I’ll
Univeraify
W-SE1U Local 925 ,1/ide- Nonsupervisory 7/W-6/30/09
I	!<
I	■	r
S COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
i	BY AND BETWEEN
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF W& HATTON AND	J
SEIU LOCAL 925
|Univ&rsity-wide Nonsupervisory Bargaining Qt it) :
UW-SEIU Local 925
University-wide Nonsupervisory 7/1/07-6/30/09
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
AND
SEIU LOCAL 925 (University-wide Nonsupervisory Bargaining Ur it)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
ARTICLE 1 -	PREAMBLE AND PURPOSE		1
ARTICLE 2 -	NONDISCRI MINATION/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION	 2.1	Nondiscrimination 2.2	Affirmative Action 2.3	Sexual Harassment 2.4	Complaints	1-2
ARTICLES -	UNION MEMBERSHIP, FAIR SHARE AND	
	DUES DEDUCTION	 3.1	Union Membership and Fair Share Fee 3.2	Dues Deduction 3.3	Indemnification 3.4	Remittance of Dues 3.5	Listing of Employees	2-3
ARTICLE 4 -	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	 4.1	Definition 4.2	Responsibilities 4.3	Employee Grievance Rights 4.4	Time Limitations 4.5	Pay Status - Meetings 4.6	Grievance Withdrawal 4.7	Employee Representation 4.8	Prior HEPB Process 4.9	Steps of the Grievance Procedure	3-6
ARTICLES -	STEWARDS	 5.1	Recognition 5.2	Steward Release Time 5.3	Designation of Stewards and Areas of Jurisdiction 5.4	Stewards in Training	7
ARTICLES -	STEWARD TRAINING	 6.1	Release Time for Training 6.2	Notice of Training 6.3	Approval of Release Time	8
ARTICLE? -	UNION BUSINESS ACTIVITIES		8
ARTICLES -	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	 8.1	General Work Hours 8.2	Definitions 8.3	Work Day/Meal Period 8.4	Rest Breaks 8.5	Work Period Designations/Scheduled Work Periods 8.6	Overtime 8.7	Overtime Policies	8-15
PAGE
8.8	Change in Work Schedule Notification
8.9	Callback Pay
8.10	Off Duty Work
8.11	Standby Pay
8.12	Shift Differential
8.13	Language Pay
8.14	Altemative/Flexible Schedules
8.15	Excepted Work Period Positions
8.16	Telework
8.17 Staffing Concerns
8.18 Weekend Pay
ARTICLES - VACATION LEAVE	
9.1 Policy
9.2 Accrual
9.3 Scheduling
9.4 Vacation Leave Accumulation
9.5 Vacation Leave Cash Payment
ARTICLE 10 - SICK LEAVE/BEREAVEMENT LEAVE	
10.1 Sick Leave
10.2 Sick Leave Cash Out
10.3 Bereavement Leave
10.4 Definitions
10.5 Reasonable Accommodation
10.6 Shared Leave
10.7 Choice of Leave
ARTICLE 11- HOLIDAYS	
11.1 Holidays
11.2 Holiday Premium Pay
ARTICLE 12 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE			
12.1 Leave Types
12.2 Leave Without Pay
12.3 Returning Employee Rights
12.4 Family Medical Leave
12.5 Educational Leave
12.6 Leave Due to Child Care Emergencies
12.7 Military Leave
12.8 Civil Duty Leave
12.9 Work-Related Injury Leave
12.10 Inclement Weather and Suspended Operaton
ARTICLE 13 - CLASSIFICATIONS	
13.1 Classification System Changes
13.2 Notification to Union
13.3 Union Proposal of New Classification
13.4 Notification of Proposed Reclassifications
15-17
17-20
20-21
21-25
25-26
PAGE
ARTICLE 14- RECLASSIFICATION		26-28
14.1 Policy 14.2	Position Review Process 14.3	Position Review Appeal Process ARTICLE 15 - TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT AND	
TEMPORARY APPOINTMENT	 15.1	To a Higher Position 15.2	Other Assignments 15.3	Temporary Appointment 15.4	Fixed Duration Appointments	28-29
ARTICLE 16 - PROBATIONARY PERIOD	 16.1 Definition 16.2 Probationary Period Rejection	29-30
ARTICLE 17- SENIORITY, LAYOFF, REHIRE	 17.1 Seniority 17.2	Layoff and Rehire 17.3	Affirmative Action Goals	30-33
ARTICLE 18 - CORRECTIVE ACTION/DISMISSAL	 18.1	General 18.2	Corrective Action/Dismissal Process 18.3	Grievability/Arbitrability 18.4	Representation	34-35
ARTICLE 19 - EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION	 19.1	Performance Evaluations 19.2	Evaluation Forms 19.3	Employee Evaluation Information 19.4	Evaluation Process 19.5	Evaluator Training 19.6	Grievability	35-36
ARTICLE 20 - EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT	 20.1	Policy 20.2	Annual List of Job Classification 20.3	Training and Development Task Teams 20.4	Information 20.5	Training and Development Programs 20.6	Release Time 20.7	Completion of Training Programs 20.8	Tuition Payment and Travel Cost Reimbursement 20.9	Training - Layoff	37-38
ARTICLE 21 - TUITION EXEMPTION PROGRAM	 21.1 General 21.2 Release Time and Fees	38
PAGE
ARTICLE 22	-
ARTICLE 23	-
ARTICLE 24	-
ARTICLE 25
ARTICLE 26	-
ARTICLE 27	-
ARTICLE 28	-
ARTICLE 29	-
PROMOTIONS/TRANSFERS		39-41
22.1	Policy 22.2	Definitions 22.3	Application for Vacant Bargaining Unit Posit ons 22.4	Essential Skills 22.5	Review 22.6	Movement Between Positions 22.7	Release Time HEALTH AND SAFETY		41-42
23.1	Policies 23.2	Health Examinations 23.3	Safety 23.4	Safety Committees 23.5	Ergonomics 23.6	Workplace Review RECORDS		42-43
24.1	Vacation/Sick Leave 24.2	Bargaining Unit 24.3	Personnel File 24.4	Request for Information TRAVEL PAY AND WORK TIME		44
25.1	General 25.2	Work Time and Compensation POLICIES		44-45
26.1	Contracting Out 26.2	Union Access 26.3	Assignmentof Additional Duties 26.4	Personal Services 26.5	Uniforms Requirement 26.6	Legislative Briefings 26.7	Child Care 26.8	Resignation FACILITIES		46
27.1	Meeting Facilities 27.2	Bulletin Boards 27.3	Employee Facilities JOINT UNION-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE		46-47
28.1	Committee Purpose and Membership 28.2	Meetings 28.3	Limitations CONTRACT DISTRIBUTION		47-48
29.1 Cost of Printing
29.2 Distribution
29.3 New Employees
PAGE
ARTICLE 30 - COMPENSATION............................................ 48-51
30.1	Promotion or Reclassification to Higher Salary Range
30.2	Reclassification to a Position in Lower Salary Range
30.3	Salary Schedules
30.4	Increment Increase
30.5	Comparable Worth
30.6	Health Benefits
30.7	Parking/U-Pass
30.8	Career Enhancement/Growth Program
30.9	Conversion of CEGP Steps
30.10	Cost of Living Adjustment
30.11	Market Rate Wage Adjustment
ARTICLE 31	- NO STRIKE/LOCKOUT...................... 51-52
ARTICLE 32	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.	52
ARTICLE 33	- SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT AND SAVING CLAUSE................................... 52-53
ARTICLE 34-	DURATION................................ 53
SIGNATORIES......................................... 54-55
APPENDIX I	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS...................... 56-61
APPENDIX II	OVERTIME EXEMPT JOB CLASSES............. 62
APPENDIX HI DIFFERENTIALS - HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL CLASSES.................................... 63-64
APPENDIX IV PAY TABLE - B4........................... 65-75
APPENDIX V PAY TABLE-B6............................. 76-81
APPENDIX VI PAY TABLE-87............................ 82-90
APPENDIX VII	MARKET RATE WAGE ADJUSTMENT............ 91-93
APPENDIX VIII	LAY OFF UNITS......................... 94-96
APPENDIX IX	REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES............. 97-110
SIDE LETTER A - UNIVERSITY BUDGET COMMITTEE......... 111
SIDE LETTER B - KRONOS.............................. 112
SIDE LETTER C - REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES......... 113
SIDE LETTER D - REGULAR TEMPORARY HARBORVIEW MEDICAL CENTER INTERPRETERS......................... 114
SIDE LETTER E - REPRESENTATION...................... 115
SIDE LETTER F - PROFESSIONAL STAFF EXEMPTIONS....... 116-117
SIDE LETTER G - HEALTH CARE SETTLEMENT.............. 118
ARTICLE 1	- PREAMBLE AND PURPOSE
This Agreement is made by and between the Board of Regent > of the University of Washington, hereinafter referred to as the Employer, and the Service Employees International Union, Local 925, hereinafter referred Io as the Union.
The Employer is the Board of Regents of the University of V/ashington acting through its agents, administrators, and supervisors as determ red by the Board of Regents.
Provisions of this Agreement apply to those regular monthly employees who are employed at the University of Washington in classifications included in the University-wide Nonsupervisory Bargaining Unit (see Appendix I). Regular temporary employees shall be covered per Appendix IX.
The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth certain terms ind conditions of employment and to promote orderly and peaceful labor relat ons between the parties. The parties agree that it has been and will be the ir mutual aim to promote systematic and effective employee-management cooperation; fair and reasonable working conditions; effective methods for the prompt adjustment of differences, misunderstandings, and disputes; and dignified am i fair treatment of employees in the implementation of all policies and procedures
ARTICLE 2	- NONDISCRIMINATION/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
2.1	Nondiscrimination. Neither the Employer nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee by reason of the following status: age, sex (except where age or sex is a bona fide occupational qualification), race or ethnic origin, color, creed, national origin, religion, disability, disabled or Vietnam era veteran, political affiliation, marital status, sexual orientation, or membership or nonmembership in a union.
2.2	Affirmative Action.
(a)	Policies. In conjunction with Federal and State Executive Orders, the Employer and the Union agree on the need for an affirmative action approach to correct and review any inequities in the employment process. The Employer shall have and implement an affirmative action plan which requires the Employer to make special efforts to recruit, employ, retain, train, promote, encourage caner development, and transfer qualified members of groups formerly excluded, even if that exclusion cannot be traced to particular discrimi latory actions on the part of the Employer, and to develop, implement, and monitor affirmative action goals and timetables for hiring andZ:ir promoting
(b)	members of protected groups into job classes/categories where it has been determined that under-utilization exists.
(c)	Applicable Law. The Union and the Employer agree to abide by and support the applicable statutory and administrative laws pertaining to equal opportunity and elimination of employment inequities. In order to promote this policy, the Employer will continue its affirmative action program for qualified women, ethnic and racial minorities, persons of disability, persons age forty (40) and over, disabled veterans, and Vietnam era veterans.
2.3	Sexual Harassment. No employee shall be subjected to discrimination in the form of sexual harassment, currently defined in the University of Washington Handbook (Volume 4, Part 1, Chapter 2) as the use of one's authority or power, either explicitly or implicitly, to coerce another into unwanted sexual relations or to punish another for his or her refusal, or as the creation by a member of the University community of an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or educational environment, through verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature.
2.4	Complaints. A discrimination complaint may be filed with the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office and/or as a grievance in accordance with Article 4 of this Agreement. Employees may also file discrimination complaints with appropriate federal or state agencies. The parties agree to encourage the filing of discrimination complaints through the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office.
ARTICLE 3	- UNION MEMBERSHIP, FAIR SHARE AND DUES DEDUCTION
3.1	Union Membership and Fair Share Fee. The Union shall fairly represent all employees covered by this Agreement. Therefore, as a condition of employment, employees who are covered under this Agreement shall, within sixty (60) days of employment, or within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this Agreement (whichever is later) either execute a union membership and payroll deduction form or a fair share payroll deduction form and shall have the appropriate fee deducted from their payroll checks. Any employee who is a member of the Union may voluntarily withdraw their membership from the Union and pay a fair share fee by giving written notice to the Union within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement.
Employees who are determined by the Public Employment Relations Commission (PERC) to satisfy the religious exemption requirements of RCW 41.80.100 shall make payments to the Union equivalent to regular union dues and initiation fees for purposes within the program of the Union
2
as designated by the employee that would be in harmor y with his or her conscience.
3.2	Dues Deduction. Upon written authorization by an individual employee, the Employer shall provide for the semi-monthly payroll deductions of union dues and fair share fees which are uniformly applie :i to all members in those bargaining units in which the Union is the exclusive bargaining agent.
3.3	Indemnification. The Union and each employee authorizing the assignment of wages for the payment of Union dues here :y undertakes to indemnify and hold the University harmless from all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that may arise against the University for or on account of any deductions made from the wages of sue h employees.
3.4	Remittance of Dues. The Employer shall electronically transmit to the Union on the first bank working day after each payday ill dues and fair share fees deducted for that pay period in those bargaining units for which the Union is the exclusive bargaining representative.
3.5	Listing of Employees. The Employer shall provide the Ur ion with a semimonthly listing of all employees with union dues or fair share fee deductions in the designated bargaining units and a monthly listing of all employees in the designated bargaining units who terminated their employment, or changed their employment status, classification or work location. The employer shall provide this information electronically along with bargaining unit pay rates and home addresses.
ARTICLE 4	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.1	Definition. A grievance, within the meaning of this Agre ement, shall be defined as any alleged misapplication or misinterpretation of the terms of this Agreement.
A grievant, within the meaning of this Agreement, shall t e defined as an employee within a bargaining unit covered by this Agreement who alleges a grievance, the Union alleging a grievance, or the Employer under the terms and conditions of this Agreement. An individual girievant may not invoke Steps Three or Four of the grievance prc::edure without authorization from the Union. Grievances involving fo mal counseling (Step One), final counseling or dismissal (Step Two) shall be submitted to the level of supervision or designee having authority to act
4.2	Responsibilities. The Union shall prevail upon all employees in the bargaining units and especially stewards to make a diligent and serious
3
attempt to resolve complaints at the lowest possible level. The Employer, likewise, shall prevail upon its supervisory personnel to cooperate fully with the stewards and other Union representatives in tine prompt resolution of any grievances that may arise.
4.3	Employee Grievance Rights. Any employee who believes he/she has been aggrieved may personally seek relief from that condition by filing a grievance, irrespective of any supervisor's opinion of the grievance's validity. In the presentation of grievances the employees shall be safe from restraint, interference, discrimination, or reprisal.
4.4	Time Limitations. An extension of the time limitations as stipulated in the respective steps below may be obtained by mutual consent of the parties. Failure of the employee to comply with the time limitations without a request for time extension shall constitute automatic withdrawal of the grievance. Failure of the Employer to comply with the time limitations without a request for time extension shall establish the right of the employee to proceed to the next step of the grievance procedure. For the purposes of calculating time requirements, the first day shall be the day following the day on which the employee was aware, or should have reasonably been aware of the issue giving rise to the grievance. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be included in the calculation of days except that the final day may not be on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday but will end at the close of the first working day following the Saturday, Sunday or holiday.
4.5	Pay Status - Meetings. Meetings and discussions on the grievance held in connection with this grievance procedure shall normally be held during the University's regular business hours, and no deduction in pay status shall be made for the grievant or steward for reasonable time spent in such meetings or discussions during the employee's scheduled duty hours. Time off for employees and stewards shall be granted by supervision following a request, but in consideration of job responsibilities. If the requested time off cannot be granted, the parties shall arrange for time off at the earliest possible time thereafter.
4.6	Grievance Withdrawal. A grievance may be withdrawn in writing at any time by mutual agreement of both parties and if withdrawn shall not be resubmitted.
4.7	Employee Representation. The Union as exclusive representative of bargaining unit employees is the responsible representative of said employees in grievance matters.
4
4.8	The parties agree that decisions rendered under the prior HEPB process shall not be determinative or precedential for any issue raised under the grievance procedure.
4.9	Steps of the Grievance Procedure. All grievances shall be processed in accordance with the following procedures. Grievinnces over final counseling or dismissal will begin at Step Two. For all other grievances the parties may agree to waive Step One. For grievances filed directly at Step Two, the grievant will have thirty (30) calender days from the occurrence oh the situation, condition or action which caused the grievant to file.
Step One: Presentation. Within thirty (30) calendar days of the occurrence of a situation, condition, or action which caus ed the grievance, the employee(s) affected and/or the steward or Union representative shall present the grievance to the employee's immediate supervisor for resolution. Presentation of the grievance shall include a short written description of the subject of the grievance and the contract Articles allegedly violated. If the grievance is directed against the employee's immediate supervisor, the grievance may be presented :o the next higher level of supervision. The parties shall attempt to mei=it to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days. The supervisor will respond within five (5) calendar days of the meeting.
Step Two: If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in SHtep One, and the employee wishes to pursue the matter further, said grievance shall be put into writing on the authorized grievance form and referred to the department head or designee or to the next appropriate level of management and the Office of Labor Relations within fift een (15) calendar days after the decision from Step One. The date of alleged occurrence of the grievance shall be specified. The parties shall at tempt to meet to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days following the date of written submittal. At this step the Union agrees Io cite all known sections of the Agreement which allegedly have beeri violated and to provide a copy to the Human Resources Office and Office of Labor Relations. The grievant may be represented by a stewa d and union staff representative. The University win be represented by the appropriate management official, or designee, a representative from the Office of Labor Relations and a human resources consultant, ; desired by the University. The University will respond in writing within len (10) calendar days.
Step Three: Grievance Mediation. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached at Step Two, the grievant with authorization fro n the Union may submit the written grievance to the Office of Labor Rei itions requesting grievance mediation within fifteen (15) calendar days.
5
Upon mutual agreement, the Employer and the Union shall request, within ten (10) calendar days, grievance mediation services of the Public Employment Relations Commission (PERC). If those services are unavailable on a timely basis, the parties shall immediately request a list of grievance mediators from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS). The cost of the mediation shall be borne equally by both parties.
Step Four: Arbitration. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached at Step Two or Step Three, either of the signatory parties to this Agreement may submit the grievance to binding arbitration. Such submittal must be made within fifteen (15) calendar days following the conclusion of Step Two or Step Three. Within sixty (60) calendar days of the execution of the Agreement, the parties agree to meet to establish a permanent panel of three (3) - five (5) arbitrators. These arbitrators shall be assigned cases by the parties on a rotating basis. If the arbitrator is not available to hear the case within sixty (60) calendar days of the decision by either party to go to arbitration, the parties will contact the next arbitrator in the rotation. If no arbitrator can hear the case within sixty (60) calendar days, the case will be assigned to the arbitrator who can hear the case on the earliest date. The appointment to the panel will be for the first eighteen (18) months of the Agreement at which time either party may decide not to continue the appointment. If an individual arbitrator decides to remove his/her name from the panel or if one or more members of the panel are not continued by either party, the parties will meet to decide whether to substitute an additional name(s).
The parties agree that the arbitrator shall have no power to render a decision that adds to, subtracts from, alters or modifies in any way the terms and conditions of the Agreement. The parties further agree that the decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon all parties. The cost of the arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties and each party shall bear the full cost of presenting its own case. The arbitrator's decision shall be made in writing and the arbitrator shall be encouraged to render the decision within thirty (30) calendar days of the close of the arbitration.
In cases where a grievance is moved to arbitration, and the parties did not avail themselves of Step Three: Grievance Mediation, the moving party shall have the unilateral right to demand a pre-arbrtration settlement conference. These conferences shall not delay the arbitration process, and may be held with or without the presence of the arbitrator, at the option of the moving party. In the event that an arbitrator is present, the cost of the arbitrator’s participation shall be borne equally by the parties.
6
ARTICLE 5	- STEWARDS
5.1	Recognition. The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to designate a maximum of seventy (70) union stewards from the Nonsupervisory and Supervisory bargaining units. Upon proper designation in accordance with Section 5.3 of this Article the stewards shall be auttioized to take up employee grievances through the grievance procedure of any SEIU Local 925 Agreement between the Employer and the Union.
5.2	Steward Release Time. A steward who is processing a grievance in accordance with the grievance procedure of any SEIU Local 925 Agreement between the Employer and the Union shall be permitted reasonable time to assist in the resolution of legitimate employee grievances on the Employer’s property without loss of :ay or recorded work time. Time off for processing grievances shall be granted to a steward by supervision following a request, but in conderation of job responsibilities. If permission for time off cannot be immediately granted, the supervisor shall arrange for time off at the earlie t possible time thereafter.
A record of a steward's work time spent on grievances or other authorized activity on behalf of the Union shall be maintained on . basis mutually agreeable between the Union and the department involved,
In the event the Employer determines that the amount of work time used by any steward on grievances or other authorized Ur ion activities is unreasonable, it may become a topic for mutual discuss on between the parties.
5.3	Designation of Stewards and Areas of Jurisdiction. The Union will submit to the Office of Labor Relations on a semiannual basis Ihe names of all Union officers, stewards, their work locations, and area; of jurisdiction. Stewards shall process grievances only within their jurisdiction unless otherwise mutually agreed. In the event of redesignate n of stewards, notice will be provided to the Office of Labor Relations at least two (2) working days before any such steward shall be recognised as properly designated to take up employee grievances.
5.4	Where the Union requests in advance of a Step Two hearing that a second steward be present for training purposes, this release will be approved without loss of pay or recorded work time subject to the operational needs of the second steward's department.
7
ARTICLE 6	- STEWARD TRAINING
6.1	During each year of this Agreement each of the Union's stewards as designated in Article 5 of this Agreement shall be provided with eight (8) hours of release time without loss of pay to participate in steward training programs sponsored by the Union.
6.2	The Union shall submit to the Office of Labor Relations and affected departments as far in advance as possible, but at least three (3) weeks in advance, the names of those stewards who will be eligible for each training course.
6.3	Time off for these purposes may be approved in advance by the employee's supervisor and will be contingent upon the supervisor's ability to provide proper work coverage during the requested time off.
ARTICLE 7	- UNION BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Employees who intend to absent themselves from work for the purpose of attending and participating in Union business functions or programs such as meetings, conventions, seminars, or to work for the Union on a temporary basis, may do so under the following conditions:
(1)	Use accrued vacation leave;
(2)	Take leave of absence without pay;
(3)	Use accrued compensatory time;
(4)	Use accrued holiday or personal holiday time.
The Union and/or the employee shall request leave approval from the affected employee's immediate supervisor as far in advance as possible but at least three (3) weeks prior to the planned absence for approval.
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.1	General.
(a)	Hours of work for regular monthly employees in the bargaining units listed in Appendix I shall be established by the employing official.
(b)	Overtime may be assigned outside of normally scheduled shifts and compensated in accordance with Section 8.6.
8
8.2	Definitions.
(a)	Full-time Employee. A regular monthly staff employee scheduled to work forty (40) hours per week in a seven (7) dsiy period; or for designated hospital personnel scheduled to work eighly (80) hours in a fourteen (14) day period.
(b)	Part-time Employee. A regular monthly staff employee scheduled to work a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week but Ie ss than forty (40) per week in a seven (7) day period; or for designated hospital personnel scheduled to work more than forty (40) hours but less than eighty (80) hours in a fourteen (14) day period. Par -time employees shall receive all benefits of employment on a pro-r; :a basis, except health benefits coverage which is determined by the s ate.
8.3	Work Day/Meal Period.
(a)	The normal work day for full-time employees typically shall be eight (8) hours to be completed within a nine (9) hour period. Meal breaks shall be a minimum of thirty (30) minutes, unpaid and on the employee's own time, provided the employee is off-duty for that meal period. It is the Employer's intention to provide uninterrupted meal breaks.
(b)	The meal period shall commence not earlier than the? second hour of the shift nor later than the fifth hour of the shift. If the employee is required to work beyond the fifth hour without a bre<i k, the employee will be allowed to eat his/her meal at the duty station c n the Employer's time.
8.4	Rest Breaks. Employees shall receive a fifteen (15) mirute break during each four (4) hours worked. It is the Employer's inte ntion to provide uninterrupted rest breaks.
8.5	Work Period Designations/Scheduled Work Periods. Ear h position will be assigned by the personnel officer to one of the work pe iod designations identified below. Employees will be informed of their eligibility for overtime compensation.
(a)	Scheduled work periods, within which there am two (2) work schedules:
(1)	Regular work schedule. The regular work schedule for full-time regular monthly employees shall consist of five (5) consecutive and uniformly scheduled eight (8) hour days in a seven (7) day period. Uniformly scheduled means a daily repetition of the same working hours and a weekly repetition of the same working days.
9
(2)	Alternative work schedule. Operational necessity or employee convenience may require positions that are normally designated regular work schedule to work an alternate forty (40) hour work schedule (other than five (5) uniform and consecutive eight (8) hour days in a seven (7) day period), or as provided by the Washington State Minimum Wage Law in conjunction with the federal law which provides for an eighty (80) hour work week in a fourteen (14) day period for hospital personnel.
(b)	Nonscheduled Work Period. The nonscheduled work period designation applies to those positions for which tee hours cannot be scheduled but which work a forty (40) hour week and do not meet any of the other work period designations.
(c)	Part-time Schedule. This is any deviation from any full-time schedule which includes twenty (20) hours or more per week but less than forty (40) hours per week in seven (7) consecutive days; or for designated hospital personnel forty (40) or more hours and less than eighty (80) hours in a fourteen (14) day period.
(d)	Split Shifts. Employees will not be assigned to split shifts unless there is prior agreement.
8.6	Overtime.
(a)	Any one of the following constitutes overtime:
(1)Work in excess of the daily work shift for full-time employees assigned to scheduled work period positions;
(2)	Work in excess of forty (40) hours in one (1) work week for employees assigned to scheduled or nonscheduled work period positions; or
(3)	For hospital personnel assigned to a fourteen (14) day schedule, work in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty four (24) hour period or eighty (80) hours in a fourteen (14) day period.
(b)	Overtime worked by employees assigned to scheduled or nonscheduled work positions shall be compensated at a rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee's straight time hourly rate including shift differential for all overtime worked as provided in subsection (a) of this section.
(c)	Employees assigned to scheduled or nonscheduled work period positions shall receive monetary payment as compensation for
io
overtime worked; however, at the employee's reque st compensatory time off at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the overtime hours worked may be granted in lieu of monetary payment. The accumulation of unused compensatory time that exceeds two hundred forty (240) hours must be paid in cash.
(d)	If compensation is paid to an employee for accrued compensatory time, such compensation shall be paid at the regula rate earned by the employee at the time the employee receives such payment. Upon termination df employment, an employee will be paid for any unused compensatory time in accordance with the Fair Labor ‘itandards Act.
(e)	Use of accrued compensatory time shall be approved by the employing official with consideration being given to the work req.irements of the department and the wishes of the employee. Compensatory time off may be scheduled by the employing official during th; final sixty (60) days of a biennium.
Compensatory time must be used or paid for by June 30th of each fiscal year. Exceptions to this policy may be approved by the Human Resources Office upon written justification of the exten ;ton.
(f)	For purposes of computing overtime compensation, holidays or leave with pay during the employee's regular work schedule shall be considered as time worked.
8.7	Overtime Policies.
(a)	Whenever overtime work is required, the employing official shall determine the employees needed to work overtime on he basis of their relevant experience. Overtime shall be distributed as equitably as possible among qualified employees.
(b)	A record of overtime hours worked by each employee shall be kept by the Employer, and such record of overtime may be reviewed, upon request, by the Union.
(c)	It is intended that overtime wages for which salary p lyment is to be made shall be paid to the employee on the paydate following the pay period in which the overtime was earned. In no event shall such overtime payments be made later than thirty (30) calendar days from the end of the pay period in which the overtime was e amed providing the payroll office has received the Exception Time Report (ETR) authorizing such payment within the time limits set by the payroll department.
n
(d)	All employees assigned to scheduled and nonscheduled work periods in classifications listed in Appendix I shall be eligible for overtime. The University currently designates certain job titles, listed in Appendix II as exempt from overtime. This does not preclude the Union or any individual employee from challenging the University’s overtime determination in appropriate forums.
(e)	Temporary Modified Weekly Schedule. By mutual agreement, individual employees and their supervisors may agree to a temporary modified weekly schedule. This schedule allows employees to alter their regular daily working hours within a work week without generating the payment of overtime (unless the employee works beyond forty (40) hours in the employee's regular work week). Temporary modified weekly scheduling adjustments must be completed within the employee's regular work week. Such scheduling will not be considered a regularly recurring alternative schedule.
8.8	Change in Work Schedule Notification. The Employer agrees to provide a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days notice to an employee in the event of an Employer-directed permanent change in the employee's shift assignment or work schedule. For temporary changes in work assignment occurring within the employee's assigned work week, the Employer will provide two (2) calendar days notice with the day of notification constituting the first day of notice. For emergency reasons, lack of work, an existing safety hazard to the employee or others, or mutual agreement between the Employer and employee under Article 8.7(e), the Employer may temporarily change an employee's schedule with fewer than two (2) calendar days notice. Temporary is defined as no longer than one (1) week.
Temporary shift changes not mutually agreed to shall not be employed to avoid the accrual of overtime.
The assignment of employees in various shifts within each work group or department shall be determined by the employing official, provided that when qualifications are substantially equal in the judgment of the employing department, seniority shall be a factor in determining shift assignment. This criteria does not apply to positions deemed by the employer to require a rotational shift.
8.9	Callback Pay. When a scheduled work period employee has left the institution grounds and is called to return to the work station outside of regularly scheduled hours, he/she shall receive two (2) hours bonus pay plus time actually worked. The bonus pay shall be compensated at the regular rate; time worked shall be compensated at time and one-half (1-1/2). Time worked immediately preceding the regular shift does not
12
constitute call back, provided time worked does not exo (?d two (2) hours or notice of at least eight (8) hours has been given, bn employee on standby status called to return to the work station does riot qualify for call back pay.
8.10	Off Duty Work. Scheduled or nonscheduled employees not on standby status who are required to perform substantial work-related duties via telephone outside their regular duty hours and away from their work station shall be compensated in the event any such elephone call is initiated by the Employer. Such time worked shall be credited at a minimum of four (4) dollars or for eligible employees c,ertime payment shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of this Article. The employee shall be paid whichever is greater.
8.11	Standby Pay. Scheduled or nonscheduled work period employees required to restrict off-duty activities to be available for duty shall be compensated at a rate of $1.75 per hour, except for thoiie job titles listed in Appendix III, which shall receive the applicable rates. Employees who, on the effective date of this Agreement, receive standby in excess of those rates shall continue to do so. When called in from steindby status, the employee shall receive premium pay (time and one -half [1-1/2] the employee's regular rate) for a minimum work period of tw o (2) hours. The two (2) hours pay shall not apply unless the emplo ae has left the employer’s premises.
8.12	Shift Differential. Employees assigned to evening and night shifts shall receive a shift differential of $1.00 per hour, except for those job titles listed in Appendix III, which shall receive the applicable rates. Evening shift is defined as a majority of time worked daily or weekly between 5:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. Night shift is defined as a majority of time worked daily or weekly between 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. Any classification which receives a higher shift differential on the effeclive date of this Agreement shall continue to do so. Shift differential she II be paid for the entire shift which qualifies. When an employee is regularly assigned to an afternoon or evening shift that qualifies for shift differer tia), he/she shall continue to receive the shift differential during temporary assignment, not to exceed five (5) working days, to a shift that does not qi alify.
8.13	Language Pay. Whenever a position has a bona fide requirement for regular use of more than one (1) language, or sign langu ige (AMESLAN), or braille, premium pay of two (2) steps above the level normally assigned for that position shall be paid except for those instances where the position is allocated to a class that specifies these skills.
8.14	Alternative/Flexible Schedules. The University's officia hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Departments having continuous and/or public
13
responsibility may establish independent work schedules in order to meet their special needs. Departments are encouraged to establish flexible work schedules and to give serious consideration to employee requests. Individual requests for flexible scheduling may be approved by the employing official, provided that such scheduling does not interfere with the effective operation of the department and shall be dependent upon such considerations as building accessibility and security.
Notwithstanding the above provision an employee may file a grievance and process such grievance to Step Two of the grievance procedure on the grounds that the decision was arbitrary and not made for business reasons. If the grievance is not resolved it shall be considered withdrawn.
Within three (3) months of the execution of this Agreement, the parties agree to meet and develop a survey regarding Alternate/Flex Work Schedules. This survey shall be sent to all bargaining unit employees with their paycheck/paystub and will seek to determine the extent to which alternate work schedules are in place throughout the University, including requests, approval and denials of alternate work schedules.
8.15	Excepted Work Period Positions. Employees assigned to excepted work period positions normally do not qualify for overtime pay. However, when an employing official determines that the employee has been directed to work an excessive amount of hours for an extended period of time, overtime in the form of compensatory time or cash not to exceed a "time and one half (1-1/2)" basis may be approved by the Vice President for Human Resources.
When the University creates or modifies a classification such that it is excepted from overtime in accordance with the law, the Union shall be notified in advance of implementation. This language does not preclude the Union or any individual employee from challenging the University's overtime determination in appropriate forums.
8.16	Telework. The parties agree that the Employer may offer telework opportunities. If the Employer chooses to offer such opportunities, the Employer may enter into direct discussions with the affected employee(s) regarding the components of a written telework agreement. Such agreements shall be between the affected employee(s) and the department. Upon request, the Employer shall meet and confer with the Union regarding the agreements. The agreements will address the treatment of work time in the event of equipment failure.
8.17	Staffing Concerns. Staff are strongly encouraged to bring concerns about staffing issues to the attention of their department(s). Local 925 can request that the Office of Labor Relations set up a Joint Labor
14
Management meeting for the particular department. Ti e Union can also place on the agenda of any Labor Management meeting the issue of staffing in particular departments/units.
8.18 Weekend Pay. All hours worked on weekends by emplo/ees in applicable job titles shall include a weekend pay premium in accordance with Appendix III.
ARTICLE 9 - VACATION LEAVE
9.1	Policy. To the degree possible vacation leave shall be scheduled in accordance with the preference of the employee.
9.2	Accrual. Employees will accrue vacation leave during the new hire probationary period, but may not use vacation leave until completion of the probationary period. The current accrual schedule for full-time employees (prorated for part-time), to be credited monthly, is as folio ws:
During
Paid Vacation Days Per Year
1st year 2nd year 3rd year 4th year 5th year 6th year 7th year 8th year 9th year 10th year 11th year 10th
12m year or more
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
9.3 Scheduling.
(a) The annual vacation schedule for use of vacation leave in each department shall be established in the existing departmental manner if adequate or in the following manner:
(1) Twice each year, on or about April 1 and October 1, a vacation request sheet shall be circulated by the department to the bargaining unit employees. Each employee shall indicate his or her preferences of a vacation time period. In the went that two (2) or more employees request the same vacation period and
15
supervision must limit the number of persons who may take vacation leave at one (1) time due to work requirements, preference shall be determined by the following method: A number equal to one (1) point for each month of unbroken departmental service shall be added to a number equal to one (1) point for each month of unbroken University service and the employee with the greater number of points shall be given preference.
(2)	Supervision shall post the vacation schedule by May 1 and November 1 which shall remain in effect for each succeeding six (6) months; that is, June 1 through November 30 and December 1 through May 31, respectively.
(b)	Employees may make supplemental vacation requests (requests made outside the provisions of 9.3(a)) at any time. However, such supplemental requests shall not take precedence over requests scheduled in accordance with 9.3(a). Individual vacation periods may be changed at any time by mutual agreement between the employee(s) concerned and supervision; however, in no case shall an employee's scheduled vacation interfere with the necessary work of the organization, the determination of which shall rest with supervision.
An employee who makes a supplemental vacation request will be notified whether the request is approved or denied within a reasonable period of time, but in no case more than fourteen (14) calendar days after the supplemental vacation request is submitted.
(c)	Any bargaining unit employee who may transfer into a department shall alter his/her preferred vacation period for that year if in conflict with a previously established vacation schedule for that department and the affected employees and department are unable to mutually resolve the conflict.
(d)	Vacation Denial. When an employee's vacation cannot be approved, the supervisor shall schedule the employee's vacation at the next earliest date requested by the employee and deemed possible by the supervisor. In the event that the University cancels an employee's scheduled vacation, leaving no time to reschedule such vacation before the employee's maximum balance will be reached, the employee's vacation balance will be permitted to exceed the allowable maximum and the employee will continue to accrue vacation for a period of up to six (6) months In order to allow rescheduling of the employee's vacation.
16
(e)	Holiday Rotation. Vacation requests filed in accorc ance with 9.3(a) for the week including Thanksgiving and the /reeks including Christmas Day and New Years Day shall be granl?d on a rotating basis. The rotation will begin with the most senior person (seniority shall be determined by the method contained in 9.3(< i) (1) above) and shall proceed in that order until all staff wishing to tale vacation leave during those holiday periods have done so. No employee shall be granted more than one (1) of the aforementioned vieeks in a single year, unless there are no other interested employees and the department is able to grant the request based on operational needs.
9.4	Vacation Leave Accumulation. An employee may accumulate a vacation balance which normally shall not exceed two hundred f :rty (240) hours. An employee may elect to accrue in excess of two hundred forty (240) hours but must receive approval to use the excess bal ince prior to the next anniversary date or lose those hours accrued in. excess of two hundred forty (240).
9.5	Vacation Leave Cash Payment. Any permanent employee who either resigns or retires, is laid-off or is terminated by the University shall be entitled to accrued vacation pay.
ARTICLE 10	- SICK LEAVE/BEREAVEMENT LE/ VE
10.1	Sick Leave.
(a)	Accrual. Full-time employees (prorated for part-time; accrue eight (8) hours credit for each month of completed regular monthly service.
(b)	Sick-Leave-Use. Sick leave shall be allowed an employee under the following conditions. The Employer reserves the right to require medical verification or appropriate proof when sick leave is requested for any reason listed below. The Employer will not make unreasonable requests for sick leave verification.
(1)	Because of and during illness, disability or injury which has incapacitated the employee from performing requi ed duties.
(2)	By reason of exposure of the employee to a co itagious disease during such period as attendance on duty would jeopardize the health of fellow employees or the public.
(3)	Because of ernergencies caused by serious illne ss or injury of a family member as defined in 10.4, fifteen (15) years of age and over that require the presence of the employee to provide immediate necessary care of the patient or to mate arrangements
17
for extended care. The Vice President for Human Resources may authorize sick leave use as provided in this subsection for other than family members as defined in 10.4. The applicability of "emergency," "necessary care" and "extended care" shall be made by the Vice President for Human Resources.
(4)	To care fora child (as identified in 10.4) under the age of eighteen (18) with a health condition that requires treatment or supervision, or to make arrangements for extended care.
(5)	Because of illness or injury of a family member as defined in 10.4 who is a person of disability and requires the employee's presence to provide short-term care or to make arrangements for extended care.
(6)	To provide emergency child care (as identified in 12.6(e) and 10.7) for the employee's child (as defined in 10.4). Such use of sick leave is limited to three (3) instances per calendar year not to exceed twenty four (24) hours (hours prorated for part-time), unless extended by the Vice President for Human Resources and shall be used only as specified in Article 12.6(e) and 10.7.
(7)	Because of the death of a family member as defined in 10.4 that requires the assistance of the employee in making arrangements for interment of the deceased.
(8)	For personal medical, dental, or optical appointments or for family members' (as defined in 10.4) appointments when the presence of the employee is required, if arranged in advance with the employing official or designee.
(c)	Sick leave may be granted for condolence or bereavement.
(d)	Use of Vacation Leave or Compensatory Time Off for Sick Leave Purposes. An employee who has used all accrued sick leave may be allowed to use accrued vacation leave and/or compensatory time off for sick leave purposes when approved in advance or authorized by the employee's departmental supervisor.
(e)	Restoration of Vacation Leave. In the event of an incapacitating illness or injury during vacation leave, the employee's supervisor may authorize the use of sick leave and the equivalent restoration of any vacation leave otherwise charged. Such requests shall be in writing, and a medical certificate may be requested.
18
(f)	No Abuse of Sick Leave. Both parties agree that neither the abuse nor the arbitrary denial of sick leave will be condoned. The Employer and the Union agree to work cooperatively toward the resolution of mutually identified problems regarding the use of sick leave.
10.2	Sick Leave Cash Out. Eligible employees may elect to eceive monetary compensation for accrued sick leave as follows:
Only in January of each year an employee whose sick Weave balance at the end of the previous year exceeds four hundred eighty (480) hours may elect to convert the sick leave hours earned in the previo is calendar year, minus those hours used during the year, to monetary cc mpensation. No sick leave hours may be converted which would reduce the calendar yearend balance below four hundred eighty (480) hours. Monetary compensation shall be paid at the rate of 25% and sha I be based upon the employee's current salary. All converted hours will he deducted from the employee's sick leave balance.
Employees who separate from University service due to retirement or death shall be compensated for the unused sick leave a ccumulation from the date of most recent hire in a leave eligible position with the State of Washington at the rate of 25%. Compensation shall be based upon the employee’s wage at the time of separation. For the purpose of this section, retirement shall not include vested out of service employees who leave funds on deposit with the retirement system.
Former eligible employees who are re-employed within Ihree (3) years of their separation from service shall be granted all unused sick leave credits, if any, to which they are entitled at time of separa ion.
10.3	Bereavement Leave. An employee shall be granted three (3) days of bereavement leave for each death of an immediate fan ly or household member as defined in 10.4. Bereavement leave beyord three (3) days may be approved in accordance with Article 10.1(c) ba ;ed on individual circumstances, such as relationship of the employee Io the deceased family member, employee responsibility for making funeral arrangements and/or distance of travel out of the area.
10.4	Definitions.
Family Members. Individuals considered to be members of the family are the employee’s spouse or same or opposite sex domestic partner, child, parent, grandparent, grandchild, sister or brother. It also includes individuals in the following relationships with the employee’s spouse or domestic partner: child, parent and grandparent. “Child’ ilso includes any child residing in the employee’s home through fo ;ter care, legal
19
guardianship or custody. Family members include those persons in a “step" relationship.
10.5
10.6
10.7
11.1
Reasonable Accommodation Due to Disability. An employee who is unable to perform the work of their position due to mental, sensory or physical incapacity may be separated from service after the institution has made good faith efforts to reasonably accommodate the employee's disability in accordance with applicable state and federal law.
Shared Leave. Employees shall participate in the University's shared leave program in accordance with state law and University policy as set forth in the Administrative Policy Statements 45.10.
Choice of Leave. In accordance with RCW 49.12 and WAC 296-130, employees shall be allowed to use any or all of their choice of sick leave or other paid time off to care for a family member, as defined in 10.4 who has a serious health condition or an emergency condition. Employees shall not be disciplined or otherwise discriminated against because of their exercise of these rights.
ARTICLE 11	- HOLIDAYS
Holidays. The present holiday schedule includes the following eleven (11) days with pay.
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
(Third Monday of January)
President's Day
(Third Monday of February) Memorial Day
Independence Day Labor Day
Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Day Personal Holiday*
Holidays are prorated for part-time employees.
•Employees who are employed four (4) months or more shall be entitled to a Personal Holiday during each calendar year. This day may be used in the same manner as any other holiday.
Use of the Personal Holiday shall be requested in writing. When the Holiday has been approved in advance and is later canceled by the University, the employee shall have the option of rescheduling the day. If the employee cannot be scheduled off, holiday premium pay will be paid.
20
The Employer may designate other days to be observed in lieu of the above holidays.
11.2 Holiday Premium Pay. Any employee required to work c n a holiday or any portion thereof shall receive their regular eight (8) hovis of holiday pay (prorated for part-time) plus premium pay at time and one-half (1-1/2). Compensatory time may be granted in lieu of monetary payment.
ARTICLE 12	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE
12.1	Leaves of absence may be granted for the following reas ons;
1.	Family Medical Leave
2.	Work-related injury or illness leave
3.	Military training leave
4.	Military service leave
5.	Civil duty leave
6.	Educational leave
7.	Leave for government service in the public interest
8.	To accommodate annual work schedules of empoyees occupying cyclic year positions
12.2	A leave of absence without pay may be allowed for cor ditions applicable for leave with pay, e.g. vacation, personal or family illness, or parental leave which may include infant or child care.
12.3	Returning Employee Rights.
Employees returning from an authorized leave of absence shall be employed in the same position or in another position in Ihe same class in the same geographical area and organizational unit, providing that such re-employment is not in conflict with other Articles in this Agreement.
12.4	Family Medical Leave.
(a) Federal Family Medical Leave Act. Consistent with ihe federal Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, an employee who has we irked for the state for at least twelve (12) months and for at least cne thousand two hundred and fifty (1250) hours during the twelve (11 ■) months prior to the requested leave is entitled to up to twelve (12) work weeks of leave per year for any combination of the following:
1.	parental leave to care for a newborn or newly placed child as defined in 10.4; or
21
2.	personal medical leave due to the employee's own serious medical condition that requires the employee's absence from work; or
3.	family medical leave to care for a family member, as defined in 10.4 who suffers from a serious medical condition that requires on-site care or supervision by the employee.
(b)The twelve (12) week FMLA leave entitlement is available to the employee each calendar year, provided that eligibility requirements listed in (a) are met.
(c)	The University will continue the employee's existing employer-paid health insurance benefits during the period of leave covered by FMLA. If necessary, due to continued personal medical or continued approved parental leave, the employee may elect to use eight (8) hours of accrued applicable paid leave for continuation of employer paid health insurance benefits for up to four (4) months, including any portion of leave covered by the FMLA.
(d)	Parental leave. Parental leave shall be granted for the purpose of bonding with the employee's natural newborn, adoptive, or fester child. Parental leave may extend up to four months, including time covered by the FMLA, during the first year after the child's birth or placement. Leave beyond the period covered by FMLA may only be denied by the Employer due to operational necessity. Such denial can be grieved beginning at Step Two of the Grievance Procedure (Article 4). Extensions beyond four (4) months may be approved by the Employer.
Parental leave may be a combination of the employee's accrued vacation leave, sick leave up to ten (10) days, personal holiday, compensatory time or leave without pay, the combination of which may be determined by the employee.
If parental leave is taken as leave of absence without pay, the employee may apply eight (8) hours of accrued paid leave per month during the first four (4) months of parental leave to provide for continuation of employer paid health benefits. Periods of parental leave covered by the FMLA shall be deducted from the four (4) month period of eligibility to intersperse paid leave.
(e)	Disability Leave. Disability leave of absence shall be granted for a reasonable period to an employee who is precluded from performing her/his job duties because of a disability.
Employee requests for disability leave shall be submitted in writing and the disability and recovery period shall be defined and certified by a
22
licensed health care provider, subject to a second opinion at the Employer's expense.
Disability leave may be a combination of the employee's accrued side leave, vacation leave, personal holiday, compensatory time, and/or leave of absence without pay, the combination of which may be determined by the employee. If disability leave is laken as leave of absence without pay, the employee may apply eight (8) hours of accrued paid leave per month during the first four (4) months of disability leave to provide for continuation of employer paid health benefits. Periods of disability leave covered by the PM LA shall be deducted from the four (4) month period of eligibility t o intersperse paid leave.
(f)	Serious health condition leave consistent with the requirements of the FMLA shall be granted to an employee in order to care for a family member, as defined in 10.4 who suffers from a serious medical condition that requires on site care or supervision by ' he employee.
The employer may require that such leave be suppored by certification from the family member’s health care provider. Serious health condition leave covered by the FMLA may be taken intermittently when certified as medically necessary.
Employees will use accrued paid leave prior to goinc on leave without pay. Sick leave may be used as described in Arlicle 10.1(b). An employee on leave without pay under this sectioi (serious health condition) may qualify for receipt of shared leave. Tne employer shall maintain employer paid health benefits during periods of leave covered by the FMLA.
(g)	Disability and serious health condition leaves when covered by the FMLA may be taken intermittently when necessary.
(h)	The employee shall provide the employer with not less than thirty (30) days notice before the leave is to begin except that if the need for the leave is unforeseeable thirty (30) days in advance, the employee shall provide such notice as is practicable.
12.5	Educational Leave. Leave of absence without pay m.y be granted for educational leave for the duration of actual attendance in the educational program.
12.6	Leave Due to Child Care Emergencies. For leave required to care for an ill child see Article 10.1(b)(6).
23
(a)	Absence due to child care emergencies as defined shall be charged to one of the following:
(1)	Compensatory time;
(2)	Vacation leave;
(3)	Sick leave;
(4)	Personal holiday;
(5)	Leave of absence without pay.
(b)	Use of any of the above leave categories is dependent upon the employee's eligibility to use such leave. Accrued compensatory time shall be used before any other leave is used.
(c)	Use of vacation leave, sick leave, and leave of absence without pay for emergency child care is limited to three (3) instances per calendar year of each type of leave not to exceed twenty four (24) hours each, with the hours prorated for part-time employees.
(d)	The employee upon returning from such leave shall designate in writing to which leave category the absence will be charged. For the purpose of this section, advance approval or written advance notice of vacation leave, personal holiday, and/or leave of absence without pay shall not be required.
(e)	A child care emergency is defined as a situation causing an employee's inability to report for or continue scheduled work because of emergency child care requirements such as unexpected absence of regular care provider, unexpected closure of the child's school, or unexpected need to pick up child at school earlier than normal.
12.7	Military Leave. Military leave will be treated in accordance with applicable state and federal law.
12.8	Civil Duty Leave. Leave of absence with pay shall be granted employees to serve on jury duty, as trial witnesses or to exercise other subpoenaed civil duties. Employees shall reimburse the institution for all compensation received for such civil duty, exclusive of expenses incurred.
12.9	Work-Related Injury Leave. An employee who sustains a work-related illness or injury shall, upon written request and proof of continuing disability, be granted leave of absence without pay for up to six (6) months without loss of layoff seniority or change in annual increment date. Leave without pay exceeding six (6) months may be granted at the option of the employing official.
Employees who suffer a work related injury or illness that is compensable under the state worker's compensation law may select time loss
24
compensation exclusively, leave payment exclusively or in combination of the two. Employees taking sick leave during a peril :l in which they receive workers' compensation under the industrial insi rance provisions shall receive full sick leave pay, less any industrial insura ice payments for time loss during the sick leave period.
12.10	Inclement Weather and Suspended Operation. When an employee is absent from work due to inclement weather, the employee shall have the option of charging the absence to accrued compensator/ time, vacation leave or leave without pay.
If the University determines it is advisable due to emergency conditions to suspend the operation of all of any portion of the institu ion the following will govern:
When prior notification has not been given, employees released until further notice after reporting to work, shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay for the first day. The following options shall b: made available to affected employees not required to work for the balan s of the closure: vacation leave, personal holiday, accrued compensalory time, leave without pay, or up to ninety (90) days to make up work tine lost. Make up time worked by overtime-eligible full-time employees is calculated at time and one-half (1-1/2).
ARTICLE 13 - CLASSIFICATIONS
13.1	The parties agree to defer discussions regarding the classification system changes promulgated by the Personnel System Reform Act of 2002 (PSRA). The parties agree that discussion regarding the classification system is a permissive subject of bargaining and this agreement is not intended to alter that understanding.
The discussions will commence no later than sixty (60) c ays following the Department of Personnel's implementation of Phase One of the statewide revision to the classification system (Phase One is scheduled to be implemented on or about July 1, 2005).
During this period of discussion the current classifications with their respective pay levels are hereby incorporated into this contract as Appendix I. The existing class specifications for these jobs are considered in effect upon the execution of this contract.
13.2	(a) Should the University decide to create, eliminate or modify class specification which does not involve a major restructure to the overall classification system it will notify the Union in advance of
25
implementing the action. Notification will include the bargaining unit status of the classification and, for a newly created or modified classification considered to be in the bargaining unit, a proposed salary. Notification will occur at least thirty (30) days in advance of any proposed implementation date. At the Union's request the University will meet and confer with the Union over its proposed action.
(b)	An employee occupying a position reallocated to a class with a lower salary range maximum due to a class being created, abolished or modified will retain the salary of their former position until reaching the top of the range of the former position, and then will be frozen until the new class pay range catches up.
An employee(s) occupying a position reallocated to a class with a higher salary range due to a class being created, abolished or modified will receive the same step in the new range as the employee(s) held in the previous range. The periodic increment date of the employee will remain unchanged.
(c)	Within thirty (30) calendar days following implementation of the University's decision to create or combine classifications per 13.2, or modify class specifications for bargaining unit positions, the Union may file an appeal with the Classification Review Hearing Officer selected under Article 14 of this contract, to determine if file salary assigned to the classification is appropriate.
13.	3 The Union may, at any time, propose a new classification with appropriate justification. These proposals will be reviewed by the Compensation Office of Human Resources which will accept, reject, or modify any proposal. This review is not grievable.
13.	4 The University agrees to notify the Union of any proposed reclassifications of occupied bargaining unit positions into non-bargaining unit positions.
ARTICLE 14	- RECLASSIFICATION
14.1	Policy. Positions shall be allocated to the appropriate classification. Requests to reclassify should be based on a belief that the duties, responsibilities, or qualifications of a position are such that it is inappropriately classified.
26
14.2	Position Review Process.
(a)	The University, employee, or employee representative may request that a position be reviewed when the requesting party believes that the basis of its request has become a permanent re |uirement of the position. Employees and employee representatives nay not request that a position be reviewed more often than one? every six (6) months.
(b)	The request must be complete and in writing on forms provided by the University. Requests may be submitted to Human Resources or to an employee's direct supervisor or department. Any party may submit additional information, including the names of individuals, which the party believes is relevant to the position review.
(c)	An employee may request that a representative be present as an observer at meetings with the University reviewe r scheduled to discuss the request for position review. At the employee's request a portion of such meetings shall be conducted in a quiet and private location, away from the work station.
(d)	The University reviewer will investigate the position and issue a written response to the employee or employee representative within sixty (60) calendar days from receipt, by Human Resources, of the completed request. A completed request is defined sis the employee completing all employee portions of the reclassification forms. The response will include notification of the class and salary assigned when the position is reallocated, or notification of Ihe reasons the position does not warrant reallocation when the irequest is not approved. Reclass requests may be submitted at either the departmental level or directly to Human Resources. F eclass requests submitted at the departmental level must be forwarded to Human Resources within thirty (30) calendar days.
(e)	The effective date of allocations or reallocations initiated by the University shall be determined by the University. The effective date of a reallocation resulting from an employee or employee representative request for position review will be established as the Ist or the 16th of the month which precedes the date that the completed request was filed with Human Resources or the employee’s direct supervisor or department, whichever date is earliest. The date of receipt must be appropriately documented.
(f)	An employee may request reconsideration following receipt of the University's determination. Requests for reconsideration will not hold the timeframe for filing an appeal under 14.3.
27
14.3	Position Review Appeal Process. If the Union wishes to appeal the decision of the University, it may appeal to the Classification Review Hearing Officer within thirty (30) calendar days following the date of the University's written response.
Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall be jointly selected by the parties within thirty (30) days of the execution of this contract and shall serve for a minimum of one (1) year from the date of selection. At that time the parties may choose to re-appoint the Hearing Officer or select a different Hearing Officer who will also serve for a minimum of one (1) year from date of selection.
Hearings. The Hearing Officer shall hold hearings on a quarterly basis unless there are no appeals to hear or the parties agree to pend any open appeals. All materials considered in the position review shall be submitted to the Hearing Officer prior to the hearing and neither party will submit evidence at the hearing that was not submitted during the position review. The Hearing Officer shall endeavor to hold multiple hearings each day, and shall issue a concise decision which shall be final and binding. The Hearing Officer shall have no authority to alter the terms and conditions of this contract. Employees may be represented at the hearing and will be released from work with no loss of pay to attend the hearing. The Hearing Officer's fees and expenses shall be shared equally by the parties.
ARTICLE 15	- TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT AND TEMPORARY APPOINTMENT
15.1	To a Higher Position. The employing official may temporarily assign a regular monthly employee the duties and responsibilities of a higher-level class for up to one (1) year. Such appointments shall be made in increments of no more than six (6) months.
The employee shall be paid at the salary step which represents at least a two (2) step increase over the present salary. Such increase shall be effective the first day of the assignment when approved as higher level duties and responsibilities by the Vice President of Human Resources.
15.2	Other Assignments. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, duties assigned an employee shall be consistent with the overall class concept of the employee's job classification.
15.3	Temporary Appointment. Temporary appointment may be made only to (a) perform work in the absence of an employee on leave for more than
28
six (6) consecutive months or (b) perform work which does not exceed one thousand fifty (1050) hours in any twelve (12) consecutive month period. At the conclusion of a temporary appointment a permanent employee shall have the right to revert to his/her former position or to an equivalent position. No temporary appointment shall lake the place of employees laid-off due to lack of work or lack of funds.
15.4	Fixed Duration Appointments. Appointments for a fixed duration may be made for assignments initially intended to be for more th an one thousand fifty (1050) hours, but for no more than twelve (12) con secutive months. Consecutive appointments that total more than twelve (12) consecutive months will not be made for the same assignment. The filling of fixed duration appointments will be determined by the University. Individuals hired under this section will receive written notification of the maximum length of the appointment and the eligibility for benefits. Conclusion of the appointment will be at the discretion of the University, including termination of appointment prior to its originally intended expiration date, and will not be subject to Articles 4 (Grievance Pnuedure) and 17 (Seniority, Layoff, Rehire) of the contract. Fixed durat on appointments will not be made to replace current employees or to de the work of any employee who has been laid off. Fixed duration appointments may only be used to fill leave-of-absences and/or temporary proje ;ts; they may not be used to fill permanent positions. Time worked in a fixed duration appointment will count towards seniority for employees v ho are appointed to a regular monthly position represented by SEIU, Local 925 without a break in service. Employees on a fixed duration appointment will be considered non-bargaining unit applicants when app ying for regular monthly bargaining unit positions.
(a)	An individual appointed to a Fixed Duration Appointment who is hired into the same job, in the same unit through open recr uitment will have their Fixed Duration Appointment months of service a|>ply toward their probationary period for that position.
(b)	Employees recruited into positions under section (a) who have worked in the Fixed Duration Appointment six (6) months cr longer will be considered to have completed their probationary period and all months of service under that Fixed Duration Appointment (including extensions) will count toward their seniority.
ARTICLE 16	- PROBATIONARY PERIOD
16.1	Definition. The probationary period is the initial six (6) month period of employment in a class following appointment of c nonpermanent employee. Permanent employees at the University of Washington shall
29
not be required to complete another probationary period. Any paid or unpaid leave taken during the probationary period will extend the period for an amount of time equal to the leave. Weekends and holidays will count in the calculation of the length of probationary period extensions. By mutual agreement, the probationary period for selected classes may be established for a period in excess of six (6) months but not to exceed twelve (12) months.
Employees in probationary status will earn seniority from their initial date of hire but may not exercise seniority rights until completion of the probationary period. Probationary employees are not eligible for layoff or rehire rights.
16.2	Probationary Period Rejection. An appointing authority may reject an employee who has not completed a probationary period. Upon request by the employee, a meeting to explain such action shall be held with a representative of the Employer. At the employee's request a representative of the Union shall attend such meetings. Such rejection is not subject to Article 4 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17	- SENIORITY, LAYOFF, REHIRE
17.1	Seniority. Seniority is defined as the continuous length of service in calendar days with the University from the most recent date of hire. Service of fess than full time shall be considered full time. Time spent on leave of absence without pay or on layoff shall not be included in computing seniority except for cyclic year positions, but does not constitute a break in service. Permanent employees who are veterans or their unmarried widows/widowers shall have added to their seniority the veteran's active military service to a maximum of five (5) years credit.
Seniority shallbe lost following an employee's resignation, termination for cause, failure to return from a leave of absence, failure to accept two (2) full recall offers (offers for the same pay, FTE status and shift as the position from which the employee was laid off), or expiration of rehire rights.
Employees who enter into the bargaining unit from other positions at the University of Washington shall be credited with layoff seniority for all seniority earned in the State classified service while employed at the University. Employees who enter into the bargaining unit from other state agencies and institutions of higher education, shall earn layoff seniority from the first day of coverage under the collective bargaining agreement. Seniority for benefit accrual purposes shall include all time credited to the employee up to the date of entering into the bargaining unit. Unused sick
30
and vacation leave credits of permanent status empoyees changing employment between bargaining unit and non-bargaining unit positions shall move with the employee.
17.2	(a) Layoff and Rehire. Whenever it becomes necessary or the University to reduce its workforce due to a lack of work, lack of funds or reorganization, the University shall use the followin':) procedure in determining which employees shall be laid off. The Unrvc rsity shall not lay off bargaining unit employees in lieu of disciplinary actior. The University shall make a concerted effort to re-employ bargaining unit members on the rehire list. Bargaining unit members on the rehire I st are eligible to take all Computing & Communications and Training & Development courses on a space available basis upon payment of designated fees.
(b)	Layoff. The University shall, with a copy to the Union, identify the positions to be abolished and the employee(s) to be effected and shall notify employees in these positions not less than twenty (!0) working days prior to the abolishment of the positions, pay the employee in lieu of notice, or combine pay and notice. The notice shall indue ej:
1.	The effective date of the layoff and a eference to the employee's rights under this Article,
2.	The opportunity to replace the most junior employee within the layoff/seniority unit in an FTE status within .2 FTE of the FTE status of the person in the position being abolished (e.g. .8 FTE position being abolished incumbent eligible to replace individual in a .6-1.0 FT! position) and in the same classification as the indhidual(s) whose position(s) is being abolished and if the ndividual whose position is being abolished possesses th ; essential skills (defined as the minimum qualifications listed in the job description for the classification and any specific position requirements) to perform the most juiior employee's position. If there is no opportunity for tfie person in the position being abolished to replace another employee within .2 FTE and within the layoff/seniority unit, the employee shall have a right to bump the most junior employee in a position with a lower FTE status than their own within the layoff/seniority unit.
In accordance with (b) (2) above, if the incumbent in ; position to be abolished has an opportunity to replace the most junior employee within the layoff/seniority unit, the incumbent will be given up to 1 iree (3) working days to determine if he/she wants to replace the junior employee or be placed on the rehire list. Vacant positions within the layoff/seniority unit will be considered a more junior position than any occupied by an
31
incumbent. Employees shall have no bumping rights per Article 17 within six (6) months from the effective date of a Final Counseling action plan.
(c)	FTE Reduction. An employee in a position that is not abolished but is reduced in FTE status and who will remain benefit eligible after the reduction will have the choice of staying in the reduced position and going on the rehire list for the position and FTE status held by the employee immediately prior to the reduction or exercising available layoff rights under 17.2(b). The employee must exercise this choice within three (3) working days of the reduction notice.
(d)	Rehire. Employees identified for layoff will be placed on an eligible rehire list(s) designated by the employee for twenty four (24) months. In addition to the rehire list for the classification and FTE status from which the employee was laid off, employees identified for layoff may be on the following rehire lists;
1.	For positions of a lower FTE status in the classification from which the employee was laid off;
2.	For positions in other classifications in which the employee previously held permanent status; and,
3.	Lower classes in a series under 1 and 2 above.
The University will refer an employee from the designated rehire list(s) for any open positions in the bargaining unit for which the laid off employee possesses the essential skills. Employees referred from the rehire list(s) who possess the essential skills needed for a vacant position will be offered the position prior to the University offering it to any other applicant. The two (2) most senior employees on a rehire listfs) who possess the essential skills needed for a vacant position will be referred and the Employer will offer the position to either of those employees. Job requests for positions for which there are employees on rehire list(s) may not be withdrawn solely to avoid hiring laid-off employees.
The Employer shall provide copies of rehire lists to the Union on a quarterly basis, or more frequently pursuant to a request by the Union.
(e)	Rehire Trial Period. Employees placed into vacant positions from the rehire list will serve a three (3) month rehire trial period. During the rehire trial period either party may, at its sole discretion and without resort to the grievance procedure, initiate return to the rehire list. Time spent in a rehire trial period will not count toward the twenty four (24) month rehire list period. The three (3) month rehire trial period will be adjusted to reflect any paid or unpaid leave taken during the period.
32
(f)	Removal from List. Removal from the rehire list(s) will occur for any of the following circumstances:
1.	If placement does not occur within twenty foi ir (24) months,
2.	If the employee refuses two (2) offers of placement for a position having the same pay, FTE status und shift as the position from which the employee was laid olf,
3.	If the employee was placed into two (2) vac ant positions for which the employee has failed to complet; the rehire trail period,
4.	If the employee accepts any offer of placement from any rehire list and completes the rehire trial service period,
5.	Employees who reject one (1) offer of placement from a list for a position of a lower FTE status thar that which the employee held immediately prior to layoff will be removed from that list,
6.	Employees who reject one (1) offer of placement from a list for a position in a classification other than that from which the employee was laid off will be removed fr< n that list.
(g)	Benefits and Temporary Services. Employees on th a rehire list who follow the rules prescribed by Temporary Services will be given priority to referral to temporary positions and can receive emp oyer paid health benefit coverage if they meet the eligibility requiremen s as determined by the state.
(h)	Rehire Wages and Increment Date. When employees are rehired from layoff status the periodic increment date and annual leive accrual date will be re-established and extended by an amount of time in calendar days equal to the period of time spent on the rehire list prior to rehire.
Employees placed from the rehire list into positions with the same salary range held at the time of layoff shall be placed nt the same step in the range held at the time of layoff. Employees placed from the rehire list into positions with a lower salary range than held at the time of layoff shall be placed in a salary step nearest to, t ut not in excess of, the salary held at time of layoff.
(i)	Rehire List Crossover. Employees within an SEilU Local 925 represented bargaining unit may, in accordance with this Article, be placed on the rehire list for positions in another EEIU, Local 925 represented bargaining unit.
17.3 Affirmative action goals may be considered at any point during the layoff or rehire process.
33
ARTICLE 18	- CORRECTIVE ACTION/DISMISSAL
18.1	The parties will follow the "Corrective Action/Dismissal Process" outlined below. No employee shall be subject to the process except for just cause. The process will be considered to incorporate the concept of progressive action while providing a positive method for improvement rather than punitive action. The University will determine the specific step at which the process begins based on the nature and severity of the problem.
18.2	Corrective Action/Dismissal Process. The University will make clear when formal or final counseling is being conducted.
Informal Counseling - Informal discussion or counseling between employee and immediate supervisor. Supervisor will follow-up in writing which will include simple action plan, if necessary.
Formal Counseling - Formal counseling (may involve administrative personnel other than the employee's immediate supervisor) including the development of a written action plan. The action plan will identify specific problem areas, performance objectives, suggestions for remedying, and a timeframe for improvement.
Final Counseling - Final counseling (may involve administration other than the employee's immediate supervisor) including action plan discussion and revision, where appropriate. A decision-making period of one (1) day of paid time away from the work site for the employee to consider the consequences of failure to follow the action plan may be used at this step. If the Employer decides to provide a decision-making day, the employee will be given a list of expectations and problem statements prior to the day taking place.
Dismissal - Prior to dismissal, a pre-determination meeting will be scheduled to give an employee an opportunity to make his/her case before the final decision is made. The employee has the right to have a Union representative present at the pre-determination meeting.
Demotion - When mutually agreed, demotion may be considered at any step of the Process.
18.3	Grievability/Arbitrability. Informal counseling may not be grieved. Formal counseling may be grieved through Step Two of the grievance procedure only. Final counseling and dismissal may be grieved through every step of the grievance procedure beginning at Step Two.
18.4	Representation. Employees shall be notified orally or in writing that upon request they shall be entitled to have a representative present when formal
34
counseling, final counseling or dismissal is occurring. Employees have a right to a meeting with management whenever corrective action is issued. Attendance of a representative shall not delay the disciplinary process unduly as determined by the Employer. All parties shall make every effort possible to allow for Union representation without unduly delaying the process.
ARTICLE 19	- EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
19.1	Performance evaluations shall be performed at least annually. Evaluations shall be based on job related performance factors Performance evaluations shall not be used to initiate personnel actions such as transfer, promotions or corrective disciplinary action, however evaluations may serve as supporting documentation for personnel actioins. Employee participation in the development of evaluation materials and rating factors is encouraged.
19.2	Evaluation Forms
(a)	Performance evaluation forms will at a minimum have;
(1)	A description of the job related factors upon which the evaluation is based. These will include:
i.	quality of work (e.g. competence, accuracy, neatness, thoroughness),
ii.	quantity of work (e.g. use of time, volume of work accomplished, ability to meet schedules, productivity levels),
iii.	job knowledge (e.g. degree of technical knowledge, understanding of job procedures and methods), and
iv.	working relationships (e.g. cooperation and ability to work with supervisor, co-workers, students, and clients served).
(2)	Provision for identifying specific achievements cf the employee, performance goals for the next evaluation period, training and development plans and other comments.
(3)	Provision for employee comments.
(4)	Provision for employee signature accompanied by a statement that "Employee signature means that the employ ire has seen and is aware of the content of the evaluation, but doe; not necessarily mean that the employee agrees with the evaluatic n content."
(5)	Provision for the evaluator and reviewer signatures, and reviewer comments.
(b)	The performance evaluation form may be supplemented with other forms and/or information used to support the employee's evaluation.
35
Upon request, an employee may review any written materials used by supervision to prepare the evaluation.
19.3	Employee Evaluation Information
(a)	Upon appointment to a position the employee's supervisor will provide the employee with a copy of:
(1)	the class specification for the position;
(2)	the position's job duties.
(b)	Written performance expectations shall be provided to the employee in sufficient time to allow the employee to meet the work expectations (normally within sixty (60) calendar days after appointment to the position). The Employer will provide at least sixty (60) calendar days notice to employees prior to the evaluation when modifications that substantively alter performance expectations are made. Minor modifications that do not substantively alter performance expectations require no notice.
19.4	Evaluation Process
(a)	The supervisor will communicate with the employee about performance problems as they occur.
(b)	The purpose of the evaluation meeting is to review, discuss, and if appropriate, modify the evaluation. The employee shall have an opportunity to discuss the proposed evaluation with the evaluator and to provide a written response.
(c)	A copy of the completed form, signed by all appropriate individuals, will be provided to the employee upon request.
(d)	Performance evaluations shall be retained in the departmental file for no more than three (3) years.
(e)	The evaluation shall be reviewed and signed by the employee's second level of supervision or management designee.
19.5	Evaluator Training. The Employer shall make available training opportunities for evaluators regarding the Employer's performance evaluation program and shall, upon request, share and discuss the contents of such training programs with the Union.
19.6	Grievability. Employee performance evaluations are grievable only through Step Two of the Grievance Procedure.
36
ARTICLE 20	- EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
20.1	Policy. The Employer reaffirms its commitment to an or -going system of staff development and training. Employer shall maintiin an employee training and development plan. The objective of this plan shall be to provide opportunity for the development of the potential occupational and professional ability of each employee in order to (1) meet institutional needs. (2) to make the most effective and economic use of employee resources in accomplishing institutional goals, and (3) to enhance employee's career advancement opportunities.
20.2	The University shall annually provide a list of job classifications reflecting the number of regular monthly positions and number illed in the past calendar year. This information shall be on file in thn Recruiting and Candidate Services Office and the respective area Human Resources Offices
20.3	Training and Development Task Teams and Committees. The Union shall be invited to designate an employee representative to participate tn each University Training and Development task team and committee convened to address topics relevant to the bargaining unit. Such topics may include career advancement, career paths, potential training needs and courses, and program crediting in the employment process, Task teams and committees shall be chaired by the Training and Development Manager or designee. Employee representatives shall be granted release time to attend task team and committee meetings which are conducted during regular business hours.
20.4	Information. The Employer shall, upon written request, provide the Union with copies of the institution's training and development plan and the annual report of the achievement of training objectives.
20.5	Training and Development Programs. It is intended thai: supervisors will encourage employees to participate in the various training and development programs as provided for by Executive Ord er 52 in order to maximize their job performance and to increase ttieir promotional opportunities.
When the Employing Official requires an employee to acquire new skills the supervisor will identify appropriate sources of training and provide training in accordance with 20.8.
20.6	Release Time. Release time for training for employees accepted for training and development programs shall be in accordance with Executive Order 52.
37
20.7	Completion of Training Programs. Completion of training programs will be considered in evaluating the employee's application for transfer or promotion when certification of completion has been indicated by the employee. The Employer will review courses offered through Training and Development, Computing and Communications, and the Women's Information Center in order to identify courses which satisfy requirements for regular monthly staff positions. The Employer will determine the amount of credit appropriate to the training course(s).
Crediting of completed training programs towards minimum qualifications shall be determined by the Employer. Currently, successful completion of the Fiscal Management Certificate Series is equivalent to six (6) months of budgetffiscal experience and successful completion of the Supervisory Certificate Series is equivalent to six (6) months of supervisory experience.
20.8	Tuition Payment and Travel Cost Reimbursement. If a supervisor requires an employee to receive training all fees and related costs will be paid by the employing department. If attendance in such courses requires use of the employee's personal vehicle, the employee will be reimbursed at the University's travel rates applying at the time. If other transportation must be taken, the employee will be reimbursed for all transportation costs. Required attendance in courses which are outside of regular working hours and which are work related or meet an identified institutional need is considered "paid time training" and constitutes time worked.
20.9	Training - Layoff. Employees on layoff status shall be eligible to participate on a space available basis in regularly scheduled Training and Development programs.
ARTICLE 21	- TUITION EXEMPTION PROGRAM
21.1	In addition to those noncredit programs offered by the Training and Development Office, eligible employees may participate in the University's tuition exemption program as authorized by applicable state law and University policy set forth in the Administrative Policy Statements 22.1. Subject to operational needs and management discretion, supervisors will make a good faith effort to allow the use of flex time for employees who wish to take a class during their scheduled shift.
21.2	Release Time and Fees. When an employee is required to take a tuition exempt class by the Employer, associated expenses and release time will be provided per Article 20.8.
38
ARTICLE 22	- PROMOTIONS/TRANSFERS
22.1	Policy. It is the policy of the University to encourage job iidvancement and promote from within. It is the responsibility of each employee seeking promotion or transfer to provide the Employer with con plete information regarding the employee's skills and qualifications relath e to the position sought. The Employer will make the application precess, necessary submittals and the essential skills of the vacant position clear to prospective applicants.
22.2	Definitions. For the purpose of this Article the following d ;finitions apply:
Promotion - Movement to a position with a different cis ssification with a higher salary maximum.
Transfer - Movement to a position with the same salary maximum or same classification.
Voluntary Demotion - Movement to a position with a lower salary maximum, where the position is attained through the employment process. This section does not apply to employees who demote as the result of corrective action.
22.3	Notice that applications are being accepted for vacant bargaining unit positions will be published by the Employer and will be made available in places intended to reach bargaining unit employees for a minimum of seven (7) days prior to the closing of the application period. The University may limit the scope of the posting area if applications only from within the posting area are accepted.
22.4	The Employer will determine if applicants possess th j essential skills required of the position. Essential skills are the minimum qualifications listed in the job description for the classification and an\, specific position requirements. The Employer will refer all current bargaining unit applicants possessing the essential skills prior to re erring any nonbargaining unit applicants. Where the skills, abilities a id experience of the vacant position applicants are considered equal, t ie Employer will offer the position to a bargaining unit applicant. In accordance with applicable law, affirmative action goats will be considered when filling vacancies.
At least one (1) bargaining unit applicant per job requsition, who is a regular monthly employee and who possesses the essen1 ial skills, shall be among those granted an interview for bargaining unit positions. Which bargaining unit applicant(s) the Employer chooses to interview shall not be grievable. On or after July 1, 2008 either party may notify the other in
39
writing that they wish to discontinue this agreement related to guaranteed interviews for bargaining unit applicants.
22.5	Applicants from within the bargaining unit determined not to possess the essential skills for the vacant position may seek a non-grievable review of the assessment through the Human Resources Office. Applicants from the bargaining unit who possess the essential skills but are not offered the position may request an explanation, written or oral, as to why the position was not offered.
22.6	Movement between positions will comply with the following:
Local 925 to Local 925 - During the first six (6) weeks of a new appointment employees who transfer, promote or voluntarily demote within a Local 925 bargaining unit may opt to return to the position they left as long as it is still available; or employees who do not meet supervisory expectations may be reassigned to the previous position. For employees who transfer or voluntarily demote, if the former position is no longer available, the employee may be reassigned in the same classification or be placed on the rehire list. Promotional employees have preemptive rights to their former position, if the position still exists even if it has been filled. Paid or unpaid leave taken during the six (6) week trial service period shall extend the length of the trial service period by the amount of paid or unpaid leave taken.
Non-Local 925 Classified to Local 925 - Employees who transfer, promote, or voluntarily demote from a UW non-Local 925 classified position to a Local 925 position will be granted a six (6) week leave of absence without pay for the purpose of serving a six (6) week trial period. During the first six (6) weeks of the new appointment either the employee or the supervisor may end the appointment by providing notice to the employing official. The employee will be returned to the same position or a comparable position in the same class. This notice must be given prior to the end of the six (6) week trial period. For a brief time following the expiration of the six (6) week period, due to operational necessity, the employer may retain the employee in the position. Paid or unpaid leave taken during the six (6) week trial service period shall extend the length of tiie trial service period by the amount of paid or unpaid leave taken. The six (6) week leave of absence period will not be extended.
Local 925 to Non-Local 925 Classified - Local 925 employees who accept a non-Local 925 classified appointment at the UW will be granted a six (6) week leave of absence without pay from the Local 925 position. Employees who accept a non-Local 925 classified position will serve a probationary period in accordance with the rules governing that non-Local 925 classified position. During the first six (6) weeks of the new
40
appointment, either the employee or the supervisor may end the new . appointment by providing notice to the employing official. The employee will be returned to the same position or a comparable position in the same class. This notice must be given prior to the end of the six (6) week trial period. For a brief time following the expiration of the sin (6) week period, due to operational necessity, the employer may retain th s employee in the position. Beyond this six (6) week timeframe, the employee will be subject to the applicable rules governing that non-Local 925 classified position.
22.7	Employees shall receive reasonable paid release time lor job interviews (which may include sitting for an examination) at the Unix ersity. Such time must be approved in advance by the supervisor subject to unit staffing needs.
ARTICLE 23	- HEALTH AND SAFETY
23.1	Policies. It is the Employer's intent to make reasorable and proper provisions for the maintenance of appropriate standards of health and safety within the workplace. The Employer shall comp'y with applicable Federal and State health and safety legislation and regulations and has designated the University's Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Department to advise and monitor compliance with such standards.
When it is established through medical documentation that a disabling condition or physical limitation prohibits continued pe formance of the employee's assigned duties, the employer will atterrpt to assist the employee through reassignment, transfer, or reconfiguration of job duties.
Employees who believe that working conditions present a hazard to their health should first alert their supervisor. All employees s re encouraged to contact Environmental Health and Safety to report hazardous conditions. If a supervisor or Environmental Health and Safety declares a work site to be hazardous and unfit for work, affected employees msiy be assigned to alternative work sites until the hazardous condition is rectified. If assignment to an alternative work site is not possible and the supervisor decides to send the employees home, those employees sent home will receive their regular pay for all time the employee is scheduled to work on the day of the incident. For all subsequent days the employee(s) may use accrued leave as appropriate.
23.2	Health Examinations. The Employer shall provide a no cost to the employee, such medical tests or health examinations as may be required as a condition of employment.
41
23.3	Safety. All work shall be performed in conformity with applicable safety standards. Employees are encouraged to immediately report any unsafe working conditions to their supervisor. No employee shall be disciplined for reporting any such condition nor be required to work or to operate equipment when he/she has reasonable grounds to believe such action would result in immediate danger to life or safety until the condition has been reviewed by a Union Steward and a higher level of supervision. If the matter is not resolved satisfactorily, the supervisor or employee may request a decision from the University's Department of Environmental Health and Safety or the Department of Labor and Industries.
23.4	Safety Committees. Bargaining unit employees shall be appropriately represented on any organizational health and safety committees for areas in which they are employed, as detailed in Administrative Policy Statements 10.11. Any department or unit committee also dealing with health and safety issues in work areas shall appropriately involve bargaining unit employees. It shall also be appropriate for either party to raise health and safety concerns at the Joint Union/Management Committee.
23.5	Ergonomics. The Employer shall maintain a separate section in the Administrative Policy Statements that reference the ergonomic requirements of WAC 296*62-051. Further ergonomic guidelines shall be referenced on the Environmental Health and Safety department website www.ehs.washington.edu.
23.6	Workplace Review. The parties recognize that there are several elements in a work site which may affect individual health, comfort and productivity. The Employer shall conduct routine hazard assessments of any worksite that may contain health hazards as required by WAC. The Employer shall provide awareness education to help reduce identified hazards. Employees may also request a workplace review by the employing department and employees shall be given the results of the review.
ARTICLE 24	- RECORDS
24.1	Vacation/Sick Leave. Each department will keep vacation and sick leave records and make them available to employees upon request.
24.2	Bargaining Unit. A current list of names, classifications, and departments of all bargaining unit employees will be provided annually to the Union at cost.
24.3	Personnel File. Upon written request by an employee to their area Human Resources Office (official personnel file) or department manager
42
(departmental file), the employee or employee's representative shall have access to the employee's official or departmental personnel file for review. Upon the employee’s request, the employee may race ve copies of any materials in the file (requests for reasonable numbers of copies will be provided at no cost to the employee; employees may be charged a fee for requests for large numbers of copies). Prior to such revi ew the Director or designee may remove any tetters of reference which were obtained through assurances of confidentiality to a third party. >uch letters shall only be used for the purposes of hiring and/or promotions I application.
Employees shall be provided a copy of all adverse material placed in the official file at the time the material is included in the file.
(a)	Information shall be retained as long as it has a reasonable bearing on the employee's job performance or upon the effic ient and effective management of the institution.
Adverse material or information related to employee misconduct or alleged misconduct which is determined to be toise and all such information in situations where the employee has been fully exonerated of wrong doing shall be promptly destroyed.
(b)	Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, an institution may retain information relating to employee miscorduct or alleged misconduct, if:
(1)	The employee requests that the information be letained; or
(2)	The information is related to pending legal actk n or legal actions may reasonable be expected to result.
The employee shall have the right to have placed in his/h ?r own personnel file a statement of rebuttal or correction of information contained in the file within a reasonable period of time after the employee bet >ames aware that the information has been placed in the file.
24.4	Request for Information. The Employer shall make available to the Union, upon written request, records and reports regarding personnel issues, such as home addresses, employment date and reclass 'ication requests, concerning those classifications in the bargaining units, provided that this shall not require the Employer to disclose any recorc» not subject to disclosure under the Public Disclosure Act of the State if Washington or to maintain or assemble any data which it would not oth erwise assemble for its own use. Information shall be provided electronically where feasible.
43
ARTICLE 25	- TRAVEL PAY AND WORK TIME
25.1	General. Any employee required to travel to a place of work other than his/her regular official duty station shall be reimbursed for travel costs if eligible, in accordance with University of Washington Administrative Policy Statements, Section 70.
25.2	Work Time and Compensation.
(a)	When employees are required to report for work to their official duty station before traveling to a temporary official duty station, work time computation shall commence at the time of reporting to the regular official duty station.
(b)	When employees are required to travel on a nonscheduled work day they shall be paid in accordance with Article 8 and University policy. For purposes of determining hours of work, the work day shall commence at the time the employee leaves his/her official duty station and end upon arrival at the temporary duty station. The employee's domicile shall be his/her official work station when travel commences from that location if less than time calculation from the official duty station.
ARTICLE 26	- POLICIES
26.1	Contracting Out. The University will not contract out work which results in the layoff of bargaining unit employees who are employed prior to the time of the execution or renewal of the contract. The University will provide the Union thirty (30) calendar days notice prior to the implementation of any contract allowed under this Article.
26.2	Union Access. Upon prior notification to management, authorized Union staff representatives shall be permitted to enter the Employer's premises and facilities at reasonable times for the purpose of representing employees in personnel matters consistent with the Union's certification as exclusive bargaining representative. It is understood that any such visits which require a meeting with an employee will be restricted to the nonworking time of the employee unless otherwise authorized by management or provided for elsewhere in this Agreement, and that there will be no interference with an employee's work assignment.
26.3	Assignment of Additional Duties. An employee who is permanently assigned the duties of a position vacated by attrition, layoff, or other reasons, in addition to his or her job duties, shall have the right to meet with his or her supervisor to discuss the situation. If the initial meeting
44
between the supervisor and the employee does not resu t in a satisfactory conclusion, the employee may request a subsequent meeting which a representative of the Union may attend.
26.4	Personal Services, it is inappropriate and contrary to U diversity policy to assign any employee coffee making, related food servic: duties, or.other tasks of a personal nature. The exception is when such an activity is based on a bona fide departmental requirement.
26.5	Uniforms Requirement. Uniforms required to be worn :y the employee shall be provided and replaced by the Employer ai the Employer's expense. The maintenance of uniforms shall be the responsibility of the employee. Prior to any decision by a department h >ad to purchase uniforms, employees in their respective departments s rail be given an opportunity to consult with their department head regard rig the color and style of uniform to be worn. The department head '/ill give serious consideration to the wishes of the employees in making a decision.
26.6	Legislative Briefings. The Union President or designee f hall be invited to attend legislative briefings conducted by the Employer.
26.7	Child Care. As a major employer, the University of Washington recognizes that the family life of its employees has a significant impact upon their work lives. The Employer currently sponsors disiycare within the community, subsidizes care for mildly ill children (as defined in 10.4), and funds a position for coordinating child care services. T ie Employer will notify the Union so that the Union may have an opportunity to provide input prior to any University action being taken to rrodify child care programs which are currently being sponsored by the Uni arsity.
Information regarding availability of resources to facilitate employee child care is available in the Reference Stations and/or the W::rk/Life Services office.
Other articles in this Agreement which address child care and parenting needs include Article 8.14 (Alternative Work Schedules), Article 10.1 (Sick Leave) and Article 12 (Leave of Absence).
26.8	Resignation. An employee has the right to withdraw hi /her resignation within twenty four (24) hours, excluding Saturday, Sunduy and holidays, after submitting the resignation. Employees may onl/ withdraw one resignation per position held. The Employer may permit withdrawal of a resignation at any time.
45
ARTICLE 27	- FACILITIES
27.1	Meeting Facilities. The Union shall be permitted to use the Employer's facilities for meetings provided advance notice is given to the Employer, appropriate space is available on the date requested, and meetings are held in accordance with the Employer's policy on this subject.
27.2	Bulletin Boards.
(a)	Space shall be made available to the Union on bulletin boards in those areas where bargaining unit members work or frequent, for the posting of notices and information pertaining to official business of the Union. Such posted material is to be signed by a Union representative.
(b)	If it is established that adequate space is not available at a convenient location, the Union may provide for and have installed a bulletin board at its own expense, provided the size and location of said bulletin board shall be mutually agreeable to the Union representative and the Employer.
27.3	Employee Facilities.
(a)	Restrooms and attendant facilities shall be provided as required by the State of Washington Department of Labor and Industries. Dressing rooms and/or lockers shall be provided to employees in those classifications where a change of clothing is required by the Employer.
(b)	The adequacy of employee facilities, including sanitary supply dispensers for female employees, shall be a proper subject for discussion by the Joint Union-Management Committee.
ARTICLE 28	- JOINT UNION-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
28.1	Committee Purpose and Membership. A Joint Union-Management Committee is established to provide a forum for communications between the two (2) parties and to deal with matters of general Union/Employer concern. The committee's function will be limited to an advisory capacity and shall not include any decision-making or collective bargaining authority.
Committee membership shall consist of three (3) bargaining unit employees and a Union staff representative and four (4) Employer
representatives to include the Executive Director for Lj bor Relations or designee.
The Employer will discuss with representatives of the Union significant changes affecting institutional conditions of employment generally affecting bargaining unit employees sufficiently in advance of the targeted implementation date of said changes so that reaso rable alternative proposals can be adequately considered by the Joint Union-Management Committee. Diversity, child care and tuition exemption shall be considered appropriate subjects for the Joint Ur i on-Management Committee.
28.2	Meetings. Committee meetings may be requested ty an authorized representative of either party. Requests for a quarterly meeting shall be honored; however, once convened, the committee may meet more or less frequently as mutually agreed between the parties.
At least one (1) week's notice shall be given to membe r of any agreed upon meeting and the agenda. Committee meetings s hall normally be held during University business hours and at a mutual!' agreeable time and date. Employee members shall experience no kiss in salary for meeting participation; however, meeting times are not construed as work time and no overtime shall be claimed or paid fdr m jetings attended outside the employee members' regular working hours.
28.3	Limitations. Committee meeting topics shall be limited to subjects of group rather than individual concern, and the committee shall not discuss grievances properly processed under Article 4 of the Agn ament. Further, it is not intended that this Article obligate in any way either party to negotiate on personnel matters covered in this Agreement or to alter, limit, restrict, or reduce prerogatives of either party otherwise provided in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 29	- CONTRACT DISTRIBUTION
29.1	The University and the Union shall share the cost of printing the Agreement for present and new employees in the bargain ng units.
29.2	Distribution.
(a)	The employer shall include a copy of the Agreement at each Reference Station and shall provide a copy to new employees in tile bargaining unit.
47
(b)	The Union shall provide a copy of the Agreement to present employees in the bargaining units. The Employer shall allow distribution through campus mail.
29.3	New Employees
(a)	The Employer shall provide to the Union, at least monthly, a list of new employees in the bargaining units, including the employee's name, classification, department, and mail stop.
(b)	The Employer will distribute to each new employee in the bargaining units, with a copy of this Agreement, a letter from the Union. Such letter will be provided to the Employer by the Union and the contents of the letter shall be mutually agreeable.
(c)	A bargaining unit member designated by the Union shall be granted paid release time to attend new employee orientation and/or new employee coffee hours scheduled by the University. Such release time will be subject to the operational needs of the department.
ARTICLE 30	- COMPENSATION
30.1	Upon promotion or reclassification from a Local 925 position to another Local 925 position with a higher salary range, the affected employee shall be placed on the salary step of the new range which reflects a minimum of a three (3) step increase. The new periodic increment date shall be the first of the current month for effective dates falling between the first and fifteenth of the month and the first of the following month for effective dates falling between the sixteenth and the end of the month.
30.2	An employee occupying a position that is reclassified to an existing class with a lower salary range shall be placed in the salary step in the new range which is closest to the current salary, provided such salary does not exceed the top step of the new salary range.
30.3	Salary Schedules
(a)	The salary schedules shall be incorporated into this Agreement as Appendices IV, V, and VI.
(b)	All schedules will contain two Career Enhancement/Growth steps as described in Section 30.8.
30.4	Employees shall continue to receive increment increases at the rate of two (2) steps each twelve (12) months unless they are newly hired at Step A, in which case they will receive a two (2) step increase at six (6) months
48
then two (2) steps annually thereafter. Employees or, the Health Care Range receive increment increases at the rate of one (11 step each twelve (12) months except employees starting at step A progress to step B after six (6) months. The University, at its discretion, may approve additional increment increases at any time. Such additional increment increases will not change an employee's periodic increment date.
30.5	The University and the Union affirm their commitment to the principles of comparable worth by implementing any state-mandated comparable worth adjustments.
30.6	Health Benefits. For the life of the Agreement, bargaining unit members shall be governed by the results of healthcare coalition bargaining, per RCW 41.80.020, with respect to health insurance benefit !; and premiums.
1)	The Employer will contribute an amount equ^il to eighty-eight percent (88%) of the total weighted average o the health care premium for each bargaining unit employee eligible for insurance each month, as determined by the Public Employees Benefits Board annually for benefits in calendar year 2C08 and calendar year 2009, respectively.
2)	The Employer will pay the entire premium costs for each bargaining unit employee for basic life, basic long-term disability and dental insurance coverage.
3)	The Employer will participate in the State of Wash ngton's set aside of $20,000,000 in the public employees' and retirees’ insurance account to be used only for the benefit of the Employer and proportionately for represented and non-represen ed employees in the event the health care costs increase more than the trends assumed under this Agreement; and this account will not be used to expand benefits or to reduce the average employee share of medical Insurance premium cost for the total weighted average of the health care premium to less than twelve percent (12%).
30.7	Parking/U-Pass. The Union agrees that during the life o this Agreement, the University may apply changes in transportation policy, including adjusting parking and U-pass fees and criteria for assign! ig parking spots, to the bargaining unit without the obligation to bargain will i the Union. The Union may raise issues and concerns at Joint Laaor/Management Committee meetings or at ad hoc Labor Management Committee. The Union shall have a standing seat on the University’s com nittees that work on transportation and parking issues.
49
30.8	Career Enhancement/Growth Program. The University will continue its Career Enhancement/Growth Program. The program will reward employees whose development of skills, increased productivity, or assumption of higher level duties results in service enhancements or efficiencies for the department in which the employee works.
Steps N & O (Appendix IV - Pay Table B4) and Steps R & S (Appendices V, and VI - Pay Tables B6 and B7) will be attained solely through the Career Enhancement/Growth Program and will not be based on length of service.
Employees in every classification covered by this Agreement will be eligible for the program. Employees are eligible to receive a Career Enhancement/Growth step any time after they have been at the last automatic increment step in their pay range for a minimum of one (1) year. Employees are eligible for the subsequent Career Enhancement/Growth step beginning one (1) year after receiving the previous step.
There will be no minimum or maximum number of employees who may receive Career Enhancement/Growth steps. There will be no minimum or maximum amount of money the University will spend on the Career Enhancement/Growth program. Decisions about Career Enhancement/ Growth steps shall be made within sixty (60) days of supervisory/managerial recommendations.
The Career Enhancement/Growth program will not be a substitute for reclassifications. Reclassifications will take priority over receiving Career Enhancement/Growth steps such that if an employee qualifies to receive a Career Enhancement/Growth step but could otherwise be reclassified, the employee will be reclassified and will not simultaneously receive the Career Enhancement/Growth step. Career Enhancement/Growth steps shall be considered in calculating salary adjustment associated with promotion and upward reclassification, but in no instance shall a salary in a new position be at a step higher than the highest automatic increment step in the new pay range except for lateral transfers where there is no mutual agreement not to exceed the highest automatic increment step in the new pay range.
The University agrees to regularly issue University-wide reminders promoting the value of this program.
The Career Enhancement/Growth program in its entirety is not subject to the grievance procedure (Article 4).
30.9	Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA). All pay tables covered by this Agreement shall be modified as follows:
50
1)	Effective July 1, 2007 a 3.2 percent across - the-board wage
increase.
Continuation of the 1.6 percent across-the-boai d wage increase from July 1, 2006.
2)	Effective July 1, 2008 a 3.0 percent across-the-board wage increase.
30.10	Market Rate Wage Adjustments. On July 1, 2007 the job titles listed in Appendix VII shall receive the agreed-upon market rate wage adjustments.
If market conditions determine that an upward adjustment in one or more economic areas is essential to maintain competitiveness, both the Union and the Employer shall be given the opportunity t< raise issues of competitive compensation and propose market adjustments. When tine Employer proposes adjustments, the Union shall be given at least thirty (30) days notice in advance of the implementation date to negotiate the adjustment.
ARTICLE 31	- NO STRIKE/LOCKOUT
The Employer and the Union acknowledge that this Agreement provides, through the grievance procedure and through other administrative emedies, for an orderly settlement of grievances or disputes which may arise between the parties. Accordingly, the parties agree that the public interest requires the uninterrupted performance of all University services and to V is end pledge to prevent or eliminate any conduct contrary to that objective. The refore, during the life of the Agreement the Employer shall not lockout any of the employees as a result of a labor dispute or grievance or disputes on personnel matters nor shall the Union condone or authorize a work stoppage, work slowdown, or any other curtailment of work in the bargaining units.
Should the employees engage in any unauthorized concerted action, a Joint Union/Management Committee shall immediately convene and shall continue to meet until the dispute is settled, and the employees involved shall immediately return to work and continue working. Any employee who re fuses to perform his/her work may be subject to disciplinary action.
There will be no strike or lockout regarding any matters pertain! i g to the contents of this Agreement.
Any action of the Employer in closing the University during a g moral strike, riot, or civil disturbance for the protection of the institution, its property, or its employees shall not be deemed a lockout.
51
Any action of an employee in refusing to cross, for his/her own personal safety, a picket line at the Employer's premises in case of an officially declared strike by some other employee organization or union representing employees working for the Employer shall not constitute a violation of this clause of the Agreement, provided, however, that such a decision shall be made freely by the employee without coercion by either the Employer or the Union and provided further that nothing herein shall preclude the Employer from continuing to operate the University with or without temporary replacement personnel.
ARTICLE 32	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The Employer through its designated management personnel or agents has the right and responsibility, except as expressly modified by this Agreement, to control, change, and supervise all operations and to direct and assign work to all working forces. Such rights and responsibilities shall include by way of illustration but shall not be limited to: the selection and hiring, training, discipline and discharge, classification, reclassification, layoff, promotion and demotion or transfer of employees; the establishment of work schedules; the allocation of all financial and other resources; the control and regulation of the use of all equipment and other property of the Employer. The Employer shall determine the methods, technological means and qualifications of personnel by and for which operations are to be carried out. The Employer shall take whatever action as may be necessary to carry out its rights in any emergency situation.
Application of this Article shall not preclude the use of the grievance procedure as established in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 33	- SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT AND SAVINGS CLAUSE
Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part of provision of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof; provided, however, upon such invalidation the parties agree immediately to meet and negotiate such parts or provisions affected. The remaining parts or provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 34	- DURATION
This Agreement shall become effective July 1, 2007 and remain in force through June 30, 2009. Automatic renewal shall extend the terms of this Agreement for one year at a time, unless either party serves the other with written notice at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the anniversary date of its intent to negotiate a
52
new Agreement. Should notice be served, bargaining shall btgin within thirty (30) calendar days following the date of the notice for the purpos e of negotiating a new Agreement.
53
Executed this date...Tniy i, 2007 for and on behalf of
SEIU LOCAL 925
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
Kim Cook
President _ Z~)
Michael Laslett
HigherEducation Division Director
Approved as to form this date:
V -_____________
Robert W. Kosin
Assistant Attorney General
State of Washington
Allison Bigelow s
Respirator Care, UW Medical Center
Cameron Rosauer
Labor & Delivery, UW Medical Center
Chris King Educational Outreach
Christian Skoorsmith
Applied Physics Laboratory
fely Gasataya
Patient Financial Services, Northgate
54
Don Burch UW Medical Center
Linda Boyce-Simith Children &Te i;n Clinic
Medical Center
Erica Howard
Radiology, UW Medical Center
me Munro
Jo Mayorga
Interpreter Services Barborview Medical Center
Judi Morris
Department of Pathology
Kathy Thomason Physical Plant South
Cardiac Diagr ostic SerWes UW Medical C enter
Patricia Humphrey I {J Department o i'cAmmunicatii
Sham R Interprete Harborvie
!S
i^dical Center
Tom Small
Anatomic Pathology UW Medical Cienter
55
APPENDIX I JOB CLASSIFICATIONS UNIVERSITY-WIDE NONSUPERVISORY BARGAINI SIG UNIT
JOB CODE	JOB CLASSIFICATION	PAY TABLE	SALARY RANGE
7115	ACCELERATOR TECHNICIAN 1	84	40
7300	ACCOUNTANT 1	B4	40
7301	ACCOUNTANT 2	B4	44
7302	ACCOUNTANT, SENIOR	84	50
7045	ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT A	B4	39
7080	ADMINISTRATIVE COORDINATOR	84	37
7490	ADMISSIONS SPECIALIST	84	41
7583	AFFIRMATIVE ACTION/HUMAN RIGHTS ASSISTANT	84	41
7613	BOOK PRODUCTION COORDINATOR	B4	44
7075	BOOKKEEPING MACHINE OPERATOR	84	29
7550	BROADCAST TECHNICIAN 1	B4	41
7551	BROADCAST TECHNICIAN 2	B4	47
7552	BROADCAST TECHNICIAN 3	B4	51
7335	BUDGET ANALYST	B4	42
7336	BUDGET/FISCAL ANALYST	B4	46
7337	BUDGET/FISCAL ANALYST LEAD	B4	51
7021	BUILDING SERVICES COORDINATOR	B4	33
7119	BUYER 1	B4	38
7120	BUYER 2	B4	44
7122	BUYER 3	B4	49
7638	CAMPUS SECURITY OFFICER	B4	41
8338	CARDIAC TECHNOLOGIST	B7	77
8339	CARDIAC TECHNOLOGIST LEAD	B7	82
7070	CASHIER 1	B4	28
7071	CASHIER 2	B4	30
7073	CASHIER LEAD	B4	32
8052	CLINIC REPRESENTATIVE 1	B4	26
8053	CLINIC REPRESENTATIVE 2	B4	30
8364	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST - CODER	B7	40
8365	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST - UTIL MANAGEMENT	B7	59
8367	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST LEAD	B7	69
8363	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST TRAINEE	B7	22
8366	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST - CODER/UTIL MANAGEMENT	B7	64
8456	CLINICAL EMBRYOLOGIST	B6	62
8457	CLINICAL EMBRYOLOGIST LEAD	B6	69
8455	CLINICAL EMBRYOLOGIST TRAINEE	B6	42
8391	CLINICAL LABORATORY ASSISTANT	B7	12
7378	COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 1	B4	58
7379	COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 2	84	62
7380	COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 3	84	66
7374	COMPUTER MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN 1	84	41
7375	COMPUTER MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN 3	84	57
7388	COMPUTER MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN 4	B4	61
56
JOB CODE	JOB CLASSIFICATION	PAY TABLE	SALARY RANGE
7377	COMPUTER MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN LEAD	B4	59
7370	COMPUTER OPERATOR 1	B4	27
7371	COMPUTER OPERATOR 2	B4	33
7372	COMPUTER OPERATOR 3	B4	39
7373	COMPUTER OPERATOR LEAD	B4	42
7945	COMPUTER SERVICES CONSULTANT 1	B4	53
7925	COMPUTER SUPPORT ANALYST 1	B4	45
7928	COMPUTER SUPPORT ANALYST 2	B4	51
7390	COMPUTER SUPPORT SPECIALIST 1	B4	44
7391	COMPUTER SUPPORT SPECIALIST 2	B4	50
7392	COMPUTER SUPPORT SPECIALIST LEAD	B4	56
7939	COMPUTER SUPPORT TECHNICIAN 1	B4	38
7940	COMPUTER SUPPORT TECHNICIAN 2	B4	44
7941	COMPUTER SUPPORT TECHNICIAN 3	B4	47
7019	CONFERENCE COORDINATOR 1	B4	38
7020	CONFERENCE COORDINATOR 2	B4	42
7669	COPY CENTER ASSISTANT/COURIER	B4	27
7656	COPY CENTER COORDINATOR 1	B4	35
7657	COPY CENTER COORDINATOR 2	B4	37
7660	COPY CENTER EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 1	B4	30
7661	COPY CENTER EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 2	B4	33
7662	COPY CENTER EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 3	B4	34
7586	COSTUMER LEAD	B4	39
7585	COSTUMER SPECIALIST	B4	48
7485	CREDENTIALS EVALUATOR 1	B4	31
7486	CREDENTIALS EVALUATOR 2	B4	34
7487	CREDENTIALS EVALUATOR 3	B4	36
7410	CURRICULUM ADVISOR	B4	35
7384	DATA CONTROL TECHNICIAN 1	B4	27
7365	DATA CONTROL TECHNICIAN 2	B4	33
7386	DATA CONTROL TECHNICIAN 3	B4	39
7367	DATA CONTROL TECHNICIAN LEAD	B4	42
7383	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR 1	B4	26
7384	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR 2	B4	28
7385	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR 3	B4	32
7386	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR LEAD	B4	34
8470	DENTAL ASSISTANT 1	B7	5
8471	DENTAL ASSISTANT 2	87	23
8476	DENTAL X-RAY TECHNICIAN 2	B7	23
7250	DEVELOPMENT/FUND RAISING EVENTS COORDINATOR	B4	43
8351	DIALYSIS/PHARESIS TECHNICIAN	B6	46
8354	DIALYSIS/PHARESIS TECHNICIAN LEAD	B6	56
8004	DIETARY UNIT CLERK	B7	2
8481	DISPENSARY ASSISTANT 2	B4	31
7641	DRAFTING TECHNICIAN 2	B4	47
7642	DRAFTING TECHNICIAN 3	B4	51
7770	EDITOR-PUBLICATIONS 1	B4	38
7771	EDITOR-PUBLICATIONS 2	B4	43
7755	EDITOR-RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS 1	B4	38
7756	EDITOR-RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS 2	B4	43
57
JOB CODE	JOB CLASSIFICATION	TABLE	RANGE
7757	EDITOR-RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS 3	B4	49
7580	ELECTRONIC MEDIA PRODUCER 1	B4	42
7581	ELECTRONIC MEDIA PRODUCER 2	B4	48
7582	ELECTRONIC MEDIA PRODUCER LEAD	84	52
7741	ELECTRONICS TECHNICIAN 2	B4	44
7593	EMPLOYMENT TRAINING SPECIALIST 1	B4	37
7595	EMPLOYMENT TRAINING SPECIALIST 2	B4	43
7592	EMPLOYMENT TRAINING SPECIALIST ASSISTANT	B4	32
7594	EMPLOYMENT TRAINING SPECIALIST LEAD	B4	43
7750	ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL TECHNICIAN 1	B4	34
7752	ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL TECHNICIAN 3	B4	42
7825	FACILITIES DRAFTING TECHNICIAN 2	B4	47
7821	FACILIT1ES/PROJECT COST ENGINEER	84	60
8073	FINANCIAL SERVICES COUNSELOR	84	37
8074	FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST 1	84	38
8075	FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST 2	B4	42
7683	FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEER	84	70
7684	FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEER-LEAD	84	75
7038	FISCAL SPECIALIST 1	84	39
7037	FISCAL SPECIALIST 2	B4	43
7050	FISCAL TECHNICIAN 1	B4	29
7051	FISCAL TECHNICIAN 2	B4	32
7055	FISCAL TECHNICIAN 3	84	35
7052	FISCAL TECHNICIAN LEAD	B4	36
7488	FOREIGN ADMISSIONS EVALUATOR	B4	36
7026	FORMS ANALYST 1	B4	33
7027	FORMS ANALYST 2	B4	39
7028	FORMS ANALYST 3	B4	45
7484	GRADUATION & ACADEMIC RECORDS SPEC LEAD	B4	43
7483	GRADUATION & ACADEMIC RECORDS SPECIALIST	B4	41
7514	GRAPHIC DESIGNER/ILLUSTRATOR	B4	42
7515	GRAPHIC DESIGNER/ILLUSTRATOR LEAD	B4	48
7512	GRAPHIC ILLUSTRATOR	B4	32
7503	HEALTH EDUCATION RESOURCES COORDINATOR 1	B4	41
7604	HEALTH EDUCATION RESOURCES COORDINATOR 2	B4	45
8256	HEALTH INFORMATION LEAD	B4	39
8222	HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNICIAN 1	B4	31
8255	HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNICIAN 2	B4	32
8254	HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNICIAN 3	B4	35
7762	HEALTH PHYSICIST 1	B4	52
7763	HEALTH PHYSICIST 2	B4	56
8474	HOSPITAL DENTISTRY ASSISTANT SPECIALIST	B7	50
7587	HUMAN RESOURCE ASSISTANT	B4	35
7588	HUMAN RESOURCE ASSISTANT SENIOR	B4	41
7589	HUMAN RESOURCE COORDINATOR	B4	37
7043	HUMAN SUBJECTS REVIEW COORDINATOR	B4	48
7774	INFORMATION SPECIALIST 1	84	38
7775	INFORMATION SPECIALIST 2	B4	43
7788	INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNICIAN 2	B4	39
7702	INVENTORY INSPECTOR 1	B4	30
58
JOB CODE	JOB CLASSIFICATION	PAY TABLE	SALARY RANGE
7703	INVENTORY INSPECTOR 2	B4	35
7797	LABORATORY HELPER	B4	24
7798	LABORATORY HELPER LEAD	B4	26
7800	LABORATORY TECHNICIAN 1	B4	27
7801	LABORATORY TECHNICIAN 2	B4	31
7240	LEGAL SECRETARY	B4	38
7792	MAILING LIST EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 1	B4	24
7793	MAILING LIST EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 2	B4	28
7540	MEDIA ENGINEER A	B4	53
7562	MEDIA LABORATORY COORDINATOR	B4	35
7529	MEDIA MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN 1	B4	36
7530	MEDIA MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN 2	B4	42
7531	MEDIA MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN 3	B4	46
7533	MEDIA MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN LEAD	B4	48
7561	MEDIA SERVICES DISPATCHER	B4	30
7560	MEDIA SERVICES OPERATOR	B4	27
7520	MEDIA TECHNICIAN	B4	29
7523	MEDIA TECHNICIAN LEAD	B4	40
7521	MEDIA TECHNICIAN SENIOR	84	37
7557	MEDIA/FILM CLERK 1	B4	23
7558	MEDIA/FILM CLERK 2	B4	25
7559	MEDIA/FILM CLERK 3	B4	30
8085	MEDICAL AIRLIFT COMMUNICATIONS SPEC	B4	47
8265	MEDICAL ASSISTANT	B4	37
8266	MEDICAL ASSISTANT LEAD	B4	40
7511	MEDICAL ILLUSTRATOR	B4	50
8087	MEDICAL INTERPRETER 1	B4	41
8088	MEDICAL INTERPRETER 2	B4	44
8089	MEDICAL INTERPRETER CASEWORKER/CULTURAL MEDIATOR	B4	43
8021	MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST 1	B7	14
8022	MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST 2	B7	21
8023	MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST LEAD	B7	28
7728	MESSENGER DRIVER	B4	26
7729	MESSENGER DRIVER LEAD	B4	30
7220	OFFICE ASSISTANT 1	B4	25
7221	OFFICE ASSISTANT 2	B4	28
7222	OFFICE ASSISTANT 3	B4	31
7223	OFFICE ASSISTANT LEAD	B4	33
7631	OFFSET DUPLICATOR OPERATOR	B4	26G
7632	OFFSET DUPLICATOR OPERATOR LEAD	B4	29G
8433	OPHTHALMIC TECHNICIAN 2	B4	47
7734	ORDER FULFILLMENT COORDINATOR	B4	32
8160	ORTHOTIST-PROSTHETIST TECHNICIAN	B6	50
7658	PARKING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER	B4	33
8072	PATIENT CARE COORDINATOR	B4	46
8066	PATIENT COLLECTIONS LEAD	B6	12
8065	PATIENT COLLECTIONS REPRESENTATIVE	B6	5
8081	PATIENT FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST 1	B6	3
8082	PATIENT FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST 2	B6	15
8010	PATIENT REGISTRATION REPRESENTATIVE	B4	34
59
JOB CODE	JOB CLASSIFICATION	PAY TABLE	SALARY RANGE
8070	PATIENT REPRESENTATIVE	B4	44
8077	PATIENT SERVICES REPRESENTATIVE	B4	34
8078	PATIENT SERVICES REPRESENTATIVE COORDINATOR	B4	37
8079	PATIENT SERVICES REPRESENTATIVE LEAD	B4	37
8090	PATIENT SERVICES SPECIALIST 1-TRAINEE	B4	34
8091	PATIENT SERVICES SPECIALIST 2	B4	37
8092	PATIENT SERVICES SPECIALIST 3	84	39
8094	PATIENT SERVICES SPECIALIST EDU-QA	84	44
8093	PATIENT SERVICES SPECIALIST LEAD	84	44
7058	PAYROLL & BENEFITS COORDINATOR	84	40
7060	(PAYROLL TECHNICIAN 1	B4	■25
7061	PAYROLL TECHNICIAN 2	84	30
7062	PAYROLL TECHNICIAN LEAD	84	32
7780	PHOTOGRAPHER 1	B4	40
7781	PHOTOGRAPHER 2	B4	44
7779	PHOTOGRAPHIC TECHNICIAN	B4	29
7420	PIANO TECHNICIAN	B4	41G
7204	PLANNING ANALYST 1	B4	52
7205	PLANNING ANALYST 2	B4	57
7206	PLANNING ANALYST 3	B4	62
7270	POLICE DISPATCHER	B4	50
7271	POLICE DISPATCHER LEAD	B4	52
7325	PRESERVATION AND MUSEUM SPECIALIST 1	B4	32
7326	PRESERVATION AND MUSEUM SPECIALIST 2	84	38
7327	PRESERVATION AND MUSEUM SPECIALIST 3	84	42
7328	PRESERVATION AND MUSEUM SPECIALIST 4	84	47
7202	PROCEDURES ANALYST 1	B4	47
7203	PROCEDURES ANALYST 2	B4	52
7125	PROCUREMENT REPRESENTATIVE	B4	32
7255	PROGRAM ASSISTANT	84	35
7256	PROGRAM COORDINATOR	B4	40
8241	QUALITY ASSURANCE COORDINATOR	87	78
7236	RECORDER	B4	33
7047	RECORDS ANALYST 1	B4	41
7048	RECORDS ANALYST 2	B4	46
7049	RECORDS ANALYST 3	84	53
7168	RECREATION COORDINATOR 2	84	44
7851	RESEARCH AIDE 2	B4	37
7030	RESEARCH ANALYST 1	84	37
7031	RESEARCH ANALYST 2	B4	42
7032	RESEARCH ANALYST 3	B4	47
7005	RESEARCH ANALYST LEAD	84	50
7853	RESEARCH LITERATURE ANALYST	84	42
7867	RESEARCH STUDY ASSISTANT	B4	33
7868	RESEARCH STUDY COORDINATOR 1	B4	38
7869	RESEARCH STUDY COORDINATOR 2	B4	43
7870	RESEARCH STUDY COORDINATOR LEAD	B4	43
7510	RESEARCH/EXTENSION PROGRAM ASSISTANT	84	38
7720	RETAIL CLERK 1	84	26
7721	RETAIL CLERK 2	84	28
60
JOB CODE	JOB CLASSIFICATION	PAY TABLE	SALARY RANGE
7722	RETAIL CLERK LEAD	B4	32
7686	SAFETY PROFESSIONAL 1	B4	50
7688	SAFETY PROFESSIONAL 2	84	54
7506	SCIENCE INSTRUCTION DESIGNER 1	84	41
7507	SCIENCE INSTRUCTION DESIGNER 2	B4	46
7784	SCIENTIFIC INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNICIAN 1	B4	40
7785	SCIENTIFIC INSTRUCTIONAL TECHNICIAN 2	84	43
7769	SCIENTIFIC STORES ATTENDANT	84	36
7243	SECRETARY	84	33
7246	SECRETARY LEAD	84	39
7244	SECRETARY SENIOR	84	36
7644	SECURITY GUARD	84	34
7176	SPORTS EQUIPMENT ATTENDANT 1	84	18
7169	SPORTS EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN	84	27
7573	STAGE TECHNICIAN 2	84	40
7234	STATISTICAL TYPIST	B4	32
7911	SYSTEMS ANALYST/PROGRAMMER 1	B4	43
7912	SYSTEMS ANALYST/PROGRAMMER 2	84	49
7913	SYSTEMS ANALYST/PROGRAMMER 3	84	55
7238	TECHNICAL SECRETARY	84	36
7288	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANALYST 1	B4	54
7289	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANALYST 2	84	58
7287	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANALYST 3	84	61
7281	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATOR-HOSPITAL	87	0
7285	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATOR LEAD-HOSPITAL	87	7
7464	TELEPHONE SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN	B4	46G
7646	TRAFFIC GUIDE	84	33
7647	TRAFFIC GUIDE LEAD	84	35
7545	TVA/1DEO EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 1	B4	28
7546	TVA/IDEO EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 2	84	33
7547	TV/VIDEO EQUIPMENT OPERATOR LEAD	84	36
8028	UTILIZATION REVIEW COORDINATOR	84	31
7472	VETERANS ADVISOR	84	36
7260	WORD PROCESSING OPERATOR 1	84	28
7261	WORD PROCESSING OPERATOR 2	84	30
7262	WORD PROCESSING OPERATOR LEAD	B4	34
61
APPENDIX II
OVERTIME EXEMPT JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
JOB CODE	JOB CLASSIFICATION
7301	ACCOUNTANT 2
7302	ACCOUNTANT, SENIOR
7336	BUDGET/FISCAL ANALYST
7337	BUOGET/FISCAL ANALYST LEAD
7122	BUYER 3
7683	FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEER
7684	FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEER LEAD
7504	HEALTH EDUCATION RESOURCES COORDINATOR ?.
7762	HEALTH PHYSICIST 1
7763	HEALTH PHYSICIST 2
7043	HUMAN SUBJECTS REVIEW COORDINATOR
7511	MEDICAL ILLUSTRATOR
7205	PLANNING ANALYST 2
7206	PLANNING ANALYST 3
7688	SAFETY PROFESSIONAL 2
7507	SCIENTIFIC INSTRUCTION DESIGNER 2
7287	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANALYST 3
See Article 8.15 for more information.
62
APPENDIX III Differentials - Health Care Professlonal/Technical Classifications Effective 7/1/07
Class Code	Class Title	Evening Shift Differ. (S/Houri	Night Shift Differ. (WHourt	Standby P«y ($/Hour)	Weekend Pay ($/Hour)
8338	CARDIAC TECHNOLOGIST	*1,50	$2.25	I $3.00	$1.50
8339	CARDIAC TECHNOLOGIST LEAD	51.50	$2.25	'	$3.00	$1.50
8364	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST - CODER	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8365	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST - UTIL MGMT	$1 50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8367	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST LEAD	$1.50	$225	,	$3.00	$1.50
8363	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST TRAINEE	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8366	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST*CODER/UTIL MGMT	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8456	CLINICAL EMBRYOLOGIST	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8457	CLINICAL EMBRYOLOGIST LEAD	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8455	CLINICAL EMBRYOLOGIST TRAINEE	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8391	CLINICAL LABORATORY ASSISTANT	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
7378	COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 1	$1.50	$225	$3.00	$1.50
7379	COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 2	$1.50	$225	$3.00	$1.50
7380	COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 3	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$150
8470	DENTAL ASSISTANT 1	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8471	DENTAL ASSISTANT 2	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8351	DIALYSIS/PHARESIS TECHNICIAN	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8354	DIALYSIS/PHARESIS TECHNICIAN LEAD	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8004	DIETARY UNIT CLERK	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8073	FINANCIAL SERVICES COUNSELOR	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8074	FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST 1	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8075	FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST 2	$1.50	$225	$3.00	$1.50
8256	HEALTH INFORMATION LEAD	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8222	HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNICIAN 1	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8255	HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNICIAN 2	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8254	HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNICIAN 3	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$150
8474	HOSPITAL DENTISTRY ASSISTANT SPECIALIST	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8085	MEDICAL AIR LIFT COMMUNICATIONS SPEC	$1.50	$2 25	$3.00	$1.50
8265	MEDICAL ASSISTANT	$1.50	$2 25	$3.00	$1.50
8266	MEDICAL ASSISTANT LEAD	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8087	MEDICAL INTERPRETER 1	$1.50	$225	$3.00	$1.50
8088	MEDICAL INTERPRETER 2	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8089	MEDICAL INTERPRETR CSEWRKR-CULTRL MEtHAT	$1.50	$225	$300	$1.50
8021	MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST 1	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8022	MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST 2	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8023	MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST LEAD	$1.50	$2 25	$3.00	$1.50
8433	OPHTHALMIC TECHNICIAN 2	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8160	ORTHOTIST-PROSTHETIST TECHNICIAN	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8072	PATIENT CARE COORDINATOR	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
Prepared by the (JW Compensation Office
REV 7/1/05
63
Page 1 of 2
APPENDIX III Differentials - Health Care Professional/Technical Classifications Effective 7/1/07
Class Cods	Class Title	Evening Shift Differ. (WHouri	Night Shift Differ. (t/Houri	Standby Pay ($/Hour)	Weekend Pay ($/Hour)
8066	PATIENT COLLECTIONS LEAD	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8065	PATIENT COLLECTIONS REPRESENTS	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8081	PATIENT FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST 1	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8082	PATIENT FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST 2	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8010	PATIENT REGISTRATION REPRESENTATIVE	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8070	PATIENT REPRESENTATIVE	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8077	PATIENT SERVICES REP	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8078	PATIENT SERVICES REP COORDINATOR	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8079	PATIENTS SERVICES REP LEAD	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8241	QUALITY ASSURANCE COORDINATOR	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
7281	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS OPERATOR-HOSP	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
7285	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS OPR LEAD-HOSP	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
For the most cunent information regarding eamings types applicable to Health Care Professional/Technical classes, please refer to the Employment Eamings Type Information on the web at: http://www. washington ed u/ad min/hr/ocpsp/eamings/em. pgs/
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
REV 7/1/05
Page 2 of 2
64
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	STEP G		>						CEGP Steps	
								H	1		J	K	L	M	N	O
14	$1,443	$1,477	$1,512	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976
$/yr	17,316	17,724	18,144	18,528	18,972	19,404	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712
$/hr	8,33	8.52	8.72	8.91	9.12	9.33	9.54	9.75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40
15	$1,477	$1,512	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027
$/yr	17,724	18,144	18,528	18,972	19,404	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324
$/hr	8.52	8.72	8.91	9.12	9.33	9.54	9.75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69
16	$1,512	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072
$/yr	18,144	18,528	18,972	19.404	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864
$/hr	8.72	8.91	9.12	9.33	9.54	9.75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95
17	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119
$/yr	18,528	18,972	19,404	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428
$/hr	8.91	9.12	9.33	9.54	9.75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23
18	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169
$/yr	18,972	19,404	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692'	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028
$/hr	9.12	9.33	9.54	9.75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51
19	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1 728	$1.768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,978	$2,027	$2,072	$2J19	$2,169'	$? 22?
$/yr	19,404	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664
$/hr	9.33	9.54	9.75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82
20	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272
$/yr	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264
$/hr	9.54	9.75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 1 of 11
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
	Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	STEP G	— >				L	M	CEGP Steps	
									H	I		J	K			N	O
	21	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324
	$/yr	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888
	$/hr	9.75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41
	22	$1.728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378
	$/yr	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536
	$/hr	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72
	23	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433
	$/yr	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196
$	$/hr	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04
	24	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492
	$/yr	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904
	$/hr	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38
	25	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547
	$/yr	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564
	$/hr	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69
	26	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611
	$/yr	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332
	$/hr	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06
	27	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671
	$/yr	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052
	$/hr Prepared by	11.17	11.40 the UW Compensation		11.69 Office	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11 Effecbve 7/1/2007		13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41 Page 2 of 11
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
	Range	A	B	C	D	E	<— F	STEP G	— >		K	L	M	CEGP Steps	
									H	I	J				N	0
	28	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378 $2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734
	$/yr	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27.888	28,536 29,196	29,904	30.564	31,332	32,052	32,808
	$/hr	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77
	29	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433 $2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799
	$/yr	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196 29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588
	$/hr	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15
	30	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492 $2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863
	$/yr	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904 30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356
	S/hr	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52
	31	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547 $2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935
	$/yr	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564 31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220
	$/hr	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93
	32	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611 $2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003
	$/yr	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332 32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036
	$/hr	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33
			A A	A, A A, f	A A A^ A	A A	R A A	A A t	A	A -, _ . —r	A rr — r j	Am. v,	,	_T. A.	*. ...	Aa. a a —	Aa		— _, J		— — .
		——i— ' ’	—	’ — *	t- ' “	T—+ ■ H. -r-	*■^■1 ' '-4“	b *	V^.,W b b	i W 1	““-t’				*4**_*,v* **
	$/yr	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052 32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888
	$/hr	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73
	34	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734 $2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150
	$/yr	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808 33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800
	$/hr	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office								Effective 7/1/2007						Page 3 of 11	
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	<	 F	STEP G	— > H	1	J		K	L	M	CEGP Steps	
														N	O
35	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228
$/yr	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736
$/hr	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62
36	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311
$/yr	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36.888	37,800	38,736	39,732
$/hr	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10
37	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391
$/yr	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692
$/hr	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56
38	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479
$/yr	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732.	40,692	41,748
$/hr	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07
39	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560
$/yr	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720
$/hr	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54
40	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653
$/yr	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836
$/hr	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08
41	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744
$/yr	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	■ 37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928
$/hr	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7JV2007
Page 4 of 11
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
	Range	A	B	C	D	E	<— F	STEP G		>						CEGP Steps	
									H	I		J	K	L	M	N	0
	42	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841
	$/yr	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092
	$/hr	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21,08	21.60	22.16
	43	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935
	$/yr	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220
	$/hr	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70
	44	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033
	$/yr	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396
03	$/hr	16,52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27
CD	45	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131
	$/yr	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572
	$/hr	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20-54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83
	46	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237
	$/yr	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844
	$/hr	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44
									J. _								 . .		 _ * .					
	— r	v	r —			ww.u > ►	—	1					-V- ■ !		J	w* p ■ V ■	V ■ 1—se-	
	$/yr	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104
	$/hr	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05
	48	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453
	$/yr	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436
	$/hr	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69
	Prepared by the UW Compensation Office							Effective 7/1/2007								Page 5 of 11
APPENDIX IV
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	□	E	F	STEP 6	— >						CEGP Steps	
								H	1		J	K	L	M	N	O
49	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562
$/yr	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744
$/hr	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23,27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32
50	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676
&yr	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112
$/hr	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24,44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98
51	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792
$/yr	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504
$/hr	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65
52	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912
$/yr	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944
$/hr	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34
53	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035
$/yr	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420
$/hr	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05
54	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163
$/yr	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956
$/hr	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79
55	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289
$/yr	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468
$/hr	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26,32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office	Effective 7/1/2007	Page 6 of 11
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	□	E	<	 F	STEP G		> H	1	J		K	L	M	CEGP Steps	
														N	O
56	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426
$/yr	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52.104	53.436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112
$/hr	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30
57	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557
s/yr	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684
$/hr	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06
58	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699
$/yr	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388
$/hr	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88
59	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841
$/yr	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092
$/hr	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70
60	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985
$/yr	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820
$/hr	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53
				■14 ^-7^.	i-;., =■£.	.<7 i	— v»sU JLi	uJ<J. JUG					i		TJC', ! j'?
$/yr	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608
$/hr	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39
62	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290
S/yr	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480
$/hr	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office	Effective 7/1/2007	Page 7 of 11
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	<— F	STEP G	H	I	J		K	L	M	CEGP Steps	
														N	O
63	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446
$/yr	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352
$/hr	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19
64	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609
$/yr	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308
$/hr	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13
65	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773
$/yr	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276
$/hr	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08
66	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943
$/yr	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316
$/hr	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06
67	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116
$/yr	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81.276	83,316	85,392
$/hr	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05
68	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294
$/yr	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528
$/hr	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08
69	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477
$/yr	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724
$/hr	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office	Effective 7/1/2007	Page 8 of 11
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1,2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	<— F	STEP G	— > H	1		J	K	L	M	CEGP N	Steps O
70	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665
$/yr	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980
$/hr	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22
71	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855
w	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260
$/hr	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32
72	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054
$/yr	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648
$/hr	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47
73	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252
$/yr	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024
$/hr	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61
74	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458
Vyr	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496
$/hr	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80
TC -	. it			£**	£5 7?£	£5. ^7	■! ■! r.	<,-7.2^4		£7 £_££	-7.G33 ’		Gu . zZLJZl	■Dlj .*»; in	i
$/yr	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052
$/hr	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44,22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03
76	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888
Wyr	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656
$/hr	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 9 Of 11
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	STEP G	— > H	1	J	K	L	M	CEGP N	Steps O
77	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107
$/yr	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284
$/hr	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42,08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54
78	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334
$/yr	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008
$/hr	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85
79	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570
$/yr	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840
$/hr	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21
80	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808
$/yr	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696
$/hr	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58
81	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052
$/yr	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624
$/hr	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99
82	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307
$/yr	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684
$/hr	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46
83	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560
$/yr	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720
$/hr	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office	Effective 7/V2007	Page 10 of 11
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1,2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	<— F	STEP G		>						CEGP Steps	
								H	I		J	K	L	M	N	O
84	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827
$/yr	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129.924
$/hr	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92	62.46
85	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100
$/yr	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200
$/hr	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59,46	60.92	62.46	64.04
86	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376
$/yr	96,648	99,024-	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512
$/hr	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92	62.46	64.04	65.63
87	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376	$11,663
$/yr	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512	139,956
$/hr	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59,46	60.92	62.46	64.04	65.63	67.29
88	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376	$11,663	$11,950
$/yr	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512	139,956	143,400
$/hr	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92	62.46	64.04	65,63	67.29	68.94
PO	tfl A?-!	th nnn	tQ	to 22^	to r.7n	en ano			"n	???	* 1 * f:f:	- ' ' “77	r.r.?	f.-f •! 7'jT:	•	i
$/yr	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512	139,956	143,400	147,012
$/hr	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92	62.46	64.04	65.63	67.29	68.94	70,68
90	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376	$11,663	$11,950	$12,251	$12,556
$/yr	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133.200	136,512	139,956	143,400	147,012	150,672
$/hr	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92	62.46	64.04	65.63	67.29	68.94	70.68	72.44
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office	Effective 7/1/2007	Page 11 of 11
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B6 - Effective July 1,2007
Range
0 $/yr $/hr
1 $/yr $/hr
2 $/yr $/hr
3 S/yr $/hr
4 $/yr $/hr
5 $M $/hf
6 $/yr $/hr
7 $/yr $/hr
8 $/yr $/hr
9 $/yr
ABC
0 E
F G
$2,007 24,084
11.58 $2,029 24,348
11.71 $2,050 24,600
11.83 $2,069 24,828
11.94 $2,090 25,080
12.06 $2,109 25,308
12.17 $2,131 25,572
12.29 $7,154 25,848
12.43 $2,172 26,064
12.53 $2,196 26,352
$2,069 24,828 11.94 $2,090
25,080 12.06
$2,109 25,308 12.17
$2,131 25,572
12.29 $2,154 25,848
12.43 $2,172 26,064
12.53 $2,196 26,352
12.67 $2,220 26,640
12,81 $2,238 26,856
12.91 $2,264 27,168
$2,131 25,572 12,29
$2,154 25,848 12.43
$2,172 26.064
12.53 $2,196 26,352
12.67 $2,220 26,640
12,81 $2,238 26,856
12.91 $2,264 27,168
13.06 $7,285 27,420
13.18 $2,308 27,696
13.32 $2,330 27,960
$2,196 26,352
12.67 $2,220 26,640
12.81 $2,238 26,856
12.91 $2,264 27,168
13.06 $2,285 27,420
13.18 $2,308 27,696
13.32 $2,330 27,960
13.44 $2,355 28,260
13.59 $2,378 28,536
13.72 $2,401 28,812
$2,264 27,168 13.06
$2,285 27,420
13.18 $2,308 27,696
13.32 $2,330 27,960
13.44 $2,355 28,260
13.59 $2,378 28,536
13.72 $2,401 28,812
13.85 $2,424 29,088
13.98 $2,452 29,424
14.15 $2,475 29,700
$2,330 27,960
13.44 $2,355 28,260
13.59 $2,378 28,536
13.72 $2,401 28,812
13.85 $2,424 29,088
13.98 $2,452 29,424
14.15 $2,475 29,700
14.28 $2,497 29,964
14.41 $2,522 30,264
14.55 $2,548 30.576
$2,401 28,812
1385 $2,424 29.088
13.98 $2,452 29,424
14.15 $2,475 29,700
14.28 $2,497 29.964
14.41 $2,522 30,264
14.55 $2,548 30,576
14.70 $2,576 30,912
14.86 $2,603 31,236
15.02 $2,625 31,500
H $2,475 29,700 14.28 $2,497 29,964 14.41 $2,522 30,264 14.55 $2,548 30,576 14.70 $2,576 30,912 14,86 $2,603 31,236 15.02 $2,625 31,500 15.14 $2,661 31,812 15.29 $2,679 32,148 15.46 $2,706 32,472
STEP
I J $2,475 $2,475 29,700 29,700 14,28	14.28
$2,497 $2,497 29.964 29.964 14.41	14.41
$2,522 $2,522 30,264 30,264 14.55	14.55
$2,548 $2,548 30,576 30,576 14.70	14.70
$2,576 $2,576 30,912 30,912 14.86	14.86
$2,603 $2,603 31,236 31,236 15.02	15.02
$2,625 $2,625 31,500 31,500 15,14	15.14
$2,651 $2,651 31,812 31,812 15.29	15.29
$2,679 $2,679 32,148 32,148 15.46	15.46
$2,706 $2,706 32,472 32,472
K $2,548 30,576 14.70 $2,576 30.912 14.86 $2,603 31,236 15.02 $2,625 31,500 15,14 $2,651 31,812 15.29 $2,679 32,148 15.46 $2,706 32,472 15.61 $2,734 32,808 15.77 $2,763 33,156 15.94 $2,786 33,432
$2,548 30,576 14.70
$2,576 30,912
14.86 $2,603 31,236
15.02 $2,625 31,500
15.14 $2,651 31,812
15.29 $2,679 32,148
15.46 $2,706 32,472 15.61 $3,734
32,808 15.77
$2,763 33,156
15.94 $2,786 33,432
M $2,625 31,500 1514 $2,651 31,812 15.29 $2,679 32,148 15.46 $2,706 32,472 15.61 $2,734 32,808 15,77 $2,763 33,156 15.94 $2,786 33,432 16.07 $3 815 33,780 16.24 $2,845 34,140 16.41 $2,873 34,476
N $2,625 31,500 15,14 $2,651 31,812 15.29 $2,679 32,148 15.46 $2,706 32,472 15.61 $2,734 32.808 15.77 $2,763 33,156 15.94 $2,786 33,432 16,07 $? 815 33,780 16.24 $2,845 34,140 16.41 $2,873 34,476
O P $2,625 $2,706 31,500 32,472 15.14	15.61
$2,651 $2,734 31,812 32J308 15.29	15.77
$2,679 $2,763 32,148 33,156 15.46	15.94
$2,706 $2,786 32,472 33,432 15.61	16.07
$2,734 $2,815 32,808 33,780 15.77	16.24
$2,763 $2,845 33,156 34,140 15.94	16.41
$2,786 $2,873 33,432 34,476 16.07	16.58
*2 815 S2 901 33,780 34,812 16.24	16.74
$2,845 $2,932 34.140 35,184 16.41	16.92
$2,873 $2,961 34,476 35,532
Q $2,786 33,432 16.07 $2,815 33,780 16.24 $2,845 34,140 16.41 $2,873 34,476 16.58 $2,901 34,812 16.74 $2,932 35,184 16.92 $2,961 35,532 17.08
*9 OOI 35,892 17.26 $3,019 36,228 17.42 $3,051 36,612
CEGP Step*
R S
$2,873 34,476 16.58
$2,901 34,812 16.74
$2,932 35,184 16.92
$2,961 35,532
17.08 $2,991 35,892
17.26 $3,019 36,228
17.42 $3,051 36,612
17.60 tSflSI 36,972
17.78 $3,111 37,332
17.95 $3,138 37.656
$2,961 35,532
17.08 $2,991 35,892
17.26 $3,019 36,228
17.42 $3,051 36,612
17.60 $3,081 36,972
17.78 $3,111 37,332
17.95 $3,138 37,656
18.10
173
38,076 18.31
$3,205 38,460
18.49 $3,237 38,844
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 1 of 6
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B6 - Effective July 1,2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< .— H	STEP I			> J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP R	Steps S
$/hr	12.67	13.06	13.44	13.85	14.28	14.70	15.14	15.61	15.61	15.61	16.07	16.07	16.58	16.58	16.58	17.08	17.60	18.10	18.68
10	$2,220	$2,285	$2,355	$2,424	$2,497	$2,576	$2,651	$2,734	$2,734	$2,734	$2,815	$2,815	$2,901	$2,901	$2,901	$2,991	$3,081	$3,173	$3,269
$/yr	26.640	27,420	28,260	29,088	29,964	30,912	31,812	32,808	32,808	32,808	33,780	33,780	34,812	34,812	34,812	35,892	36,972	38,076	39,228
$/hr	12.81	13.10	13.59	13.98	14.41	14.86	15.29	15.77	15.77	15.77	16.24	16.24	16.74	16.74	16.74	17.26	17.78	18.31	18,86
11	$2,238	$2,308	$2,378	$2,452,	$2,522	$2,603	$2,679	$2,763	$2,763	$2,763	$2,845	$2,845	$2,932	$2,932	$2,932	$3,019	$3,111	$3,205	$3,303
$/yr	26,856	27,696	28,536	29,424	30,264	31,236	32,148	33,156	33,156	33,156	34,140	34,140	35,184	35,184	35,184	36,228	37,332	38,460	39,636
$/hr	12.91	13.32	13.72	14.15	14.55	15.02	15.46	15.94	15.94	15.94	16.41	16.41	16.92	16.92	16.92	17.42	17.95	18.49	19.06
12	$2,264	$2,330	$2,401	$2,475	$2,548	$2,625	$2,706	$2,786	$2,786	$2,786	$2,873	$2,873	$2,961	$2,961	$2,961	$3,051	$3,138	$3,237	$3,337
$/yr	27,168	27,960	28,812	29,700	30,576	31,500	32,472	33,432	33,432	33,432	34,476	34,476	35,532	35,532	35,532	36,612	37,656	38,844	40,044
$/hr	13.06	13.44	13.85	14.28	14.70	15.14	15.61	16.07	16.07	16.07	16.58	16.58	17 08	17.08	17.08	17.60	18.10	18,68	19.25
13	$2,285	$2,355	$2,424	$2,497	$2,576	$2,651	$2,734	$2,815	$2,815	$2,815	$2,901	$2,901	$2,991	$2,991	$2,991	$3,081	$3,173	$3,269	$3,367
$/yr	27,420	28,260	29,088	29,964	30,912	31,812	32,808	33,780	33,780	33,780	34,812	34,812	35,892	35,892	35,892	36,972	38,076	39,228	40,404
$/hr	13.18	13.59	13.98	14.41	14 86	15.29	15.77	16.24	16.24	16.24	16.74	16.74	17.26	17.26	17.26	17.78	18 31	18.86	19.43
14	$2,308	$2,378	$2,452	$2,522	$2,603	$2,679	$2,763 r	$2,845	$2,845	$2,845	$2,932	$2,932	$3,019	$3,019	$3,019	$3,111	$3,205	$3,303	$3,401
$/yr	27,696	28,536	29,424	30,264	31,236	32,148	33,156	34,140	34,140	34,140	35,184	35,184	36,228	36,228	36,228	37,332	38,460	39,636	40,812
$/hr	13.32	13.72	14.15	14.55	15.02	15.46	15.94	16 41	16.41	16.41	16.92	16.92	17.42	17.42	17.42	17.95	18.49	19.06	19.62
15	$2,330	$2,401	$2,475	$2,548	$2,625	$2,706	$2,786	$2,873	$2,873	$2,873	$2,961	$2,961	$3,051	$3,051	$3,051	$3,138	$3,237	$3,337	$3,436
$/yr	27,960	28,012	29,700	30,576	31,500	32,472	33,432	34,476	34,476	34,476	35,532	35,532	36,612	36,612	36,612	37,656	38,844	40,044	41,232
S/hr	13.44	13.85	14.28	14 70	15.14	15.61	16.07	16.58	16.58	16.58	17.08	17.08	17.60	17.60	17.60	18.10	18.68	19.25	19.82
16	$2,355	$2,424	$2,497	$2,576	$2,651	$2,734	$2,815	$2,901	$2,901	$2,901	$2,991	$2,991	$3,081	$3,081	$3,081	$3,173	$3,269	$3,367	$3,470
$/yr	28,260	29,088	29,964	30,912	31,812	32,808	33.780	34,812	34,812	34,812	35,892	35,892	36,972	36,972	36,972	38,076	39,228	40,404	41,640
S/hr	13.59	13.98	14.41	14.86	15.29	15.77	16.24	16.74	16.74	16.74	17.26	17.26	17.78	17.78	17.78	18.31	18.86	19.43	20.02
17	$2,378	$2,452	$2,522	$2,603	$2,679	$2,763	$2,845	$2,932	$2,932	$2,932	$3,019	$3,019	$3,111	$3,111	$3,111	$3,205	$3,303	$3,401	$3,505
$/yr	28,536	29,424	30,264	31,236	32,148	33,156	34,140	35,184	35,184	35,184	36,228	36,228	37,332	37,332	37,332	38,460	39,636	40,812	42,060
$/hr	13.72	14.15	14.55	15.02	15.46	15.94	16.41	16.92	16.92	16.92	17.42	17.42	17.95	17.95	17.95	18.49	19.06	19.62	20.22
18	$2,401	$2,475	$2,548	$2,625	$2,706	$2,786	$2,873	$2,961	$2,961	$2,961	$3,051	$3,051	$3,138	$3,138	$3,138	$3,237	$3,337	$3,436	$3,540
$/yr	28,012	29,700	30,576	31,500	32,472	33,432	34,476	35,532	35,532	35,532	36,612	36,612	37,656	37,656	37,656	38,844	40,044	41.232	42,480
$/hr	13.05	14.20	14.70	15.14	15.61	16.07	16.58	17.08	17.08	17.08	17.60	17.60	10.10	18.10	18.10	18,68	19.25	19.82	20,42
19	$2,424	$2,497	$2,576	$2,651	$2,734	$2,815	$2,901	$2,991	$2,991	$2,991	$3,081	$3,081	$3,173	$3,173	$3,173	$3,269	$3,367	$3,470	$3,576
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 2 of 6
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B6 - Effective July 1, 2007
	Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< .. -- H	STEP 1	J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP Steps	
																			R	S
	$/yr	29,088	29,964	30,912	31,812	32,808	33.780	34,812	35,892	35,892	35,892	36,972	36,972	38,076	38,076	38,076	39,228	40,404	41,640	42,912
	$/hr	13.98	14.41	14.86	15.29	15.77	16.24	16.74	17.26	17.26	17.26	17.78	17.78	18.31	18.31	18.31	18.86	19.43	20.02	20.63
	20	$2,452	$2,522	$2,603	$2,679	$2,763	$2,845	$2,932	$3,019	$3,019	$3,019	$3,111	$3,111	$3,205	$3,205	$3,205	$3,303	$3,401	$3,505	$3,612
	$/yr	29,424	30,264	31,236	32,148	33,156	34,140	35,184	36.228	36,228	36.228	37.332	37.332	38,460	38.460	38,460	39,636	40,812	42,060	43,344
	$/hr	14.15	14.55	15 02	15.46	15.94	16.41	16.92	17.42	17.42	17.42	17.95	17.95	18.49	18.49	18.49	19.06	19.62	20.22	20.84
	21	$2,475	$2,548	$2,625	$2,706	$2,786	$2,873	$2,961	$3,051	$3,051	$3,051	$3,138	$3,138	$3,237	$3,237	$3,237	$3,337	$3,436	$3,540	$3,648
	$/yr	29,700	30,576	31,500	32,472	33,432	34,476	35,532	36,612	36,612	36,612	37,656	37,656	38,844	38,844	38,844	40,044	41,232	42,480	43,776
	w	14.28	14.70	15.14	15.61	16.07	16.58	17.08	17.60	17.60	17.60	18.10	18.10	18.68	18.68	18.68	19.25	19.82	20.42	21.05
	22	$2,497	$2,576	$2,651	$2,734	$2,815	$2,901	$2,991	$3,081	$3,081	$3,081	$3,173	$3,173	$3,269	$3,269	$3,269	$3,367	$3,470	$3,576	$3,686
	$/yr	29,964	30,912	31,812	32,808	33,780	34,812	35,892	36,972	36,972	36,972	38,076	38,076	39,228	39,228	39,228	40,404	41,640	42,912	44,232
	w	14.41	14.86	15.29	15.77	16.24	16.74	17.26	17.78	17.78	17.78	18.31	18.31	18.86	18.86	18.86	19.43	20.02	20.63	21.27
	23	$2,522	$2,603	$2,679	$2,763	$2,845	$2,932	$3,019	$3,111	$3,111	$3,111	$3,205	$3,205	$3,303	$3,303	$3,303	$3,401	$3,505	$3,612	$3,722
co	$/yr $/hr 24 $/yr $/hr 25 $/yr $/hr 26 &yr $/hr 27 $v $/hi 28 $/yr $/hr 29 $/yr $/hr 30 $/yr $/hr	30,264 14.55 $2,548 30,576 14.70 $2,576 30,912 14.86 $2,603 31,236 15.02 $2,625 31.500 15.14 $2,651 31,812 15.29 $2,679 32,148 15.46 $2,706 32,472 15.61	31,236 15.02 $2,625 31,500 15.14 $2,651 31,812 15.29 $2,679 32,148 15.46 $2,706 32.472 15.61 $2,734 32,808 15.77 $2,763 33,156 15.94 $2,786 33,432 16.07	32,148 15.46 $2,706 32,472 15.61 $2,734 32,808 15.77 $2,763 33,156 15.94 $2,786 33.432 16.07 $2,815 33,780 16.24 $2,845 34,140 16.41 $2,873 34,476 16.58	33,156 15.94 $2,786 33,432 16.07 $2,815 33,780 16.24 $2,845 34,140 16.41 $2,673 34.476' 16.58 $2,901 34,812 16.74 $2,932 35,184 16.92 $2,961 35,532 17.08	34,140 16.41 $2,873 34,476 16.58 $2,901 34,812 16.74 $2,932 35,184 16.92 $2,961 35.53? i7.ua $2,991 35.892 17.26 $3,019 36,228 17.42 $3,051 36,612 17.60	35,184 16.92 $2,961 35.532 17.08 $2,991 35,892 17.26 $3,019 36,228 17.42 $3,051 36 519 17.60 $3,081 36.972 17.78 $3,111 37,332 17.95 $3,138 37,656 18.10	36,228 17.42 $3,051 36,612 17 60 $3,081 36,972 17.78 $3,111 37.332 17.95 $3,138 V 65R la.iu $3,173 38,076 18.31 $3,205 38,460 18.49 $3,237 38,844 18.68	37,332 17.95 $3,138 37,656 18.10 $3,173 38,076 18.31 $3,205 38,460 18.49 $3,237 38 Rdd 18.68 $3,269 39,228 18.86 $3,303 39,636 19.06 $3,337 40,044 19.25	37,332 17.95 $3,138 37,656 18.10 $3,173 38,076 18.31 $3,205 38,460 18.49 $3,237 38. 18.68 $3,269 39,228 18.86 $3,303 39,636 19.06 $3,337 40,044 19.25	37,332 17.95 $3,138 37,656 18.10 $3,173 38,076 18.31 $3,205 38,460 18.49 $3,237 18 Add 18.68 $3,269 39,228 18.86 $3,303 39,636 19.06 $3,337 40,044 19.25	38,460 18.49 $3,237 38,844 18.68 $3,269 39,228 18.86 $3,303 39,636 19.06 $3,337 dn Add 19.25 $3,367 40,404 19.43 $3,401 40,812 19.62 $3,436 41,232 19.82	38,460 18.49 $3,237 38,844 18.68 $3,269 39,228 18.86 $3,303 39,636 19.06 $3,337 dn Aid 19.25 $3,367 40,404 19.43 $3,401 40,812 19.62 $3,436 41,232 19.82	39,636 19.06 $3 337 40,044 19.25 $3,367 40,404 19.43 $3,401 40.812 19.62 $3,436 19.82 $3,470 41,640 20.02 $3,505 42,060 20.22 $3,540 42,480 20.42	39,636 19.06 $3 337 40,044 19.25 $3,367 40,404 19.43 $3,401 40,812 19.62 $3,436 19.82 $3,470 41,640 20.02 $3,505 42,060 20.22 $3,540 42,480 20.42	39,636 19.06 $3,337 40,044 19.25 $3,367 40,404 19.43 $3,401 40,812 19.62 $3,436 19.82 $3,470 41,640 20.02 $3,505 42,060 20.22 $3,540 42,480 20.42	40,812 19.62 $3,436 41.232 19.82 $3,470 41,640 20.02 $3,505 42,060 20.22 $3,540 d A d BA 20.42 $3,576 42,912 20.63 $3,612 43,344 20.84 $3,648 43,776 21.05	42,060 20.22 $3,540 42,480 20.42 $3,576 42,912 20.63 $3,612 43,344 20.84 $3,648 21.05 $3,686 44,232 21.27 $3,722 44,664 21.47 $3,758 45,096 21.68	43,344 20.84 $3,648 43,776 21.05 $3,686 44,232 21,27 $3,722 44,664 21.47 $3,758 21.68 $3,794 45,528 21.89 $3,833 45,996 22.11 $3,873 46,476 22.34	44,664 21.47 $3,758 45,096 21.68 $3,794 45,528 21.89 $3,833 45,996 22 11 $3,873 22.34 $3,912 46,944 22.57 $3,949 47,388 22.78 $3,990 47,880 23.02
Prepared the JW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 3 of 6
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B6 - Effective July 1,2007
	Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< - — H	STEP 1	J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP Steps	
																			R	S
	31	$2,734	$2,815	$2,901	$2,991	$3,081	$3,173	$3,269	$3,367	$3,367	$3,367	$3,470	$3,470	$3,576	$3,576	$3,576	$3,686	$3,794	$3,912	$4,031
	$/yr	32,808	33,780	34,812	35,892	36,972	38,076	39,228	40,404	40,404	40,404	41,640	41,640	42,912	42,912	42,912	44.232	45,528	46,944	48,372
	$/hr	15.77	16.24	16.74	17.26	17.78	18.31	18.86	19.43	19.43	19.43	20.02	20.02	20.63	20.63	20.63	21.27	21,89	22.57	23.26
	32	$2,763	$2,845	$2,932	$3,019	$3,111	$3,205	$3,303	$3,401	$3,401	$3,401	$3,505	$3,505	$3,612	$3,612	$3,612	$3,722	$3,833	$3,949	$4,071
	$/yr	33,156	34,140	35,184	36,228	37,332	38.460	39.636	40,812	40,812	40,812	42,060	42,060	43,344	43,344	43,344	44,664	45,996	47,388	48,852
	$/hr	15.94	16.41	16.92	17.42	17.95	18.49	19.06	19.62	19.62	19.62	20.22	20.22	20.84	20.84	20.84	21.47	22.11	22.78	23,49
	33	$2,786	$2,873	$2,961	$3,051	$3,138	$3,237	$3,337	$3,436	$3,436	$3,436	$3,540	$3,540	$3,648	$3,648	$3,648	$3,758	$3,873	$3,990	$4,113
	$/yr	33,432	34,476	35,532	36,612	37,656	38,844	40.044	41.232	41,232	41,232	42,480	42,480	43,776	43,776	43,776	45.096	46,476	47,880	49,356
	$/hr	16.07	16.58	17.08	17.60	18.10	18.68	19.25	19.82	19.82	19.82	20.42	20.42	21.05	21.05	■ 21.05	21.68	22.34	23.02	23.73
	34	$2,815	$2,901	$2,991	$3,081	$3,173	$3,269	$3,367	$3,470	$3,470	$3,470	$3,576	$3,576	$3,686	$3,686	$3,686	$3,794	$3,912	$4,031	$4,153
	$/yr	33,780	34,812	35,892	36,972	38,076	39,228	40,404	41,640	41,640	41,640	42,912	42,912	44,232	44,232	44,232	45,528	46,944	48,372	49,836
	$/hf	16.24	16.74	17.26	17.78	18.31	18.86	19.43	20.02	20.02	20.02	20.63	20.63	21.27	21.27	21.27	21.89	22.57	23.26	23.96
	35	$2,845	$2,932	$3,019	$3,111	$3,205	$3,303	$3,401	$3,505	$3,505	$3,505	$3,612	$3,612	$3,722	$3,722	$3,722	$3,833	$3,949	$4,071	$4,194
	$/yr	34,140	35,184	36.228	37,332	38,460	39,636	40,812	42,060	42,060	42,060	43,344	43,344	44,664	44,664	44,664	45,996	47,388	48,852	50,328
	$/hr	16.41	16.92	17.42	17.95	18.49	19.06	19.62	20.22	20.22	20.22	20.84	20.84	21.47	21.47	21.47	22.11	22.78	23.49	24.20
	36	$2,873	$2,961	$3,051	$3,138	$3,237	$3,337	$3,436	$3,540	$3,540	$3,540	$3,648	$3,648	$3,758	$3,758	$3,758	$3,873	$3,990	$4,113	$4,236
	$/yr	34,476	35,532	36,612	37,656	38,844	40,044	41,232	42,480	42,480	42,480	43,776	43,776	45,096	45,096	45,096	46,476	47,880	49,356	50,832
	$/hr	16.58	17.08	17.60	18.10	18.68	19.25	19.82	20.42	20.42	20.42	21.05	21.05	21.68	21.68	21.68	22.34	23.02	23.73	24.44
to	37	$2,901	$2,991	$3,081	$3,173	$3,269	$3,367	$3,470	$3,576	$3,576	$3,576	$3,686	$3,686	$3,794	$3,794	$3,794	$3,912	$4,031	$4,153	$4,277
	$/yr	34,812	35,892	36,972	38,076	39.228	40.404	41,640	42,912	42.912	42,912	44,232	44,232	45,523	45,528	45,528	46,944	48,372	49,836	51,324
	$/hr	16.74	17.26	17.78	18.31	18.86	19.43	20.02	20.63	20.63	20.63	21.27	21.27	21.89	21.89	21.89	22.57	23.26	23.96	24.68
	38	$2,932	$3,019	$3,111	$3,205	$3,303	$3,401	$3,505	$3,612	$3,612	$3,612	$3,722	$3,722	$3,833	$3,833	$3,833	$3,949	$4,071	$4,194	$4,319
	$/yr	35,184	36,228	37,332	38,460	39,636	40,812	42,060	43,344	43,344	43.344	44,664	44,664	45,996	45,996	45,996	47,388	48,852	50,328	51,828
	S/hr	16 92	17.42	17.95	18.49	19.06	19.62	20.22	20.84	20.84	20.84	21.47	21.47	22.11	22.11	22.11	22.78	23.49	24.20	24,92
	39	$2,961	$3,051	$3,138	$3,237	$3,337	$3,436	$3,540	$3,648	$3,648	$3,648	$3,758	$3,758	$3,873	$3,873	$3,873	$3,990	$4,113	$4,236	$4,363
	$/yr	35,532	36,612	37,656	38,844	40,044	41,232	42,480	43.776	43,776	43,776	45,096	45,096	46,476	46,476	46,476	47,880	49,356	50,832	52,356
	$/hr	17.08	17.60	18.10	18.68	19.25	19.82	20.42	21.05	21.05	21.05	21.68	21.68	22.34	22.34	22.34	23.02	23.73	24.44	25,17
	40	$2,991	$3,081	$3,173	$3,269	$3,367	$3,470	$3,576	$3,686	$3,686	$3,686	$3,794	$3,794	$3,912	$3,912	$3,912	$4,031	$4,153	$4,277	$4,406
	Vyr	35,892	36,972	38,076	39,228	40,404	41,640	42,912	44,232	44,232	44,232	45,528	45,528	46,944	46,944	46,944	48.372	49,836	51,324	52,872
	$/hr	17.26	17.78	18.31	18.86	19.43	20.02	20.63	21.27	21.27	21.27	21.89	21.89	22.57	22.57	22.57	23.26	23.96	24.68	25.42
	41	$3,019	$3,111	$3,205	$3,303	$3,401	$3,505	$3,612	$3,722	$3,722	$3,722	$3,833	$3,833	$3,949	$3,949	$3,949	$4,071	$4,194	$4,319	$4,451
	$/yr	36,228	37,332	38,460	39,636	40,812	42.060	43,344	44,664	44,664	44,664	45,996	45,996	47,388	47,388	47,388	48,852	50,328	51,828	53,412
	$/hr	17.42	17.95	18.49	19.06	19.62	20.22	20.84	21.47	21.47	21.47	22.11	22.11	22.78	22.78	22.78	23.49	24.20	24.92	25.68
	42	$3,051	$3,138	$3,237	$3,337	$3,436	$3,540	$3,648	$3,758	$3,758	$3,758	$3,873	$3,873	$3,990	$3,990	$3,990	$4,113	$4,236	$4,363	$4,495
	$/yr	36,612	37,656	38,844	40,044	41,232	42,480	43,776	45,096	45,096	45,096	46,476	46,476	47,880	47,880	47,880	49,356	50,832	52,356	53,940
	$/hr	17.60	18.10	18.68	19.25	19.82	2042	21.05	21.68	21.68	21.68	22.34	22.34	23.02	23.02	23.02	23.73	24.44	25.17	25.93
	43	$3,081	$3,173	$3,269	$3,367	$3,470	$3,576	$3,686	$3,794	$3,794	$3,794	$3,912	$3,912	$4,031	$4,031	$4,031	$4,153	$4,277	$4,406	$4,540
	$/yr	36,972	38,076	39,228	40,404	41,640	42,912	44,232	45,528	45,528	45,528	46,944	46,944	48,372	48,372	48,372	49,836	51,324	52,872	54,480
	$/hr	17.78	18.31	18.86	19.43	20.02	20.63	21.27	21.89	21.89	21.89	22.57	22.57	23.26	23.26	23.26	23.96	24.68	25.42	26.19
	44	$3,111	$3,205	$3,303	$3,401	$3,505	$3,612	$3,722	$3,833	$3,833	$3,833	$3,949	$3,949	$4,071	$4,071	$4,071	$4,194	$4,319	$4,451	$4,587
Prepared by the JW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 4 of 6
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B6 - Effective July 1,2007
	Ranpe	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	STEP 1	J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP Slept	
																			R	S
	$/yr	37,332	38,460	39,636	40,812	42,060	43,344	44,664	45,996	45,996	45,996	47,388	47,388	48,852	48,852	48,852	50,328	51,828	53,412	55.044
	$/hr	17.95	18.49	19.06	19.62	20.22	20.84	21.47	22.11	22.11	22.11	22.78	22.78	23.49	23.49	23.49	24.20	24.92	25.68	26.46
	45	$3,138	$3,237	$3,337	$3,436	$3,540	$3,648	$3,758	$3,873	$3,873	$3,873	$3,990	$3,990	$4,113	$4,113	$4,113	$4,236	$4,363	$4,495	$4,632
	$/yr	37,656	38,844	40,044	41,232	42,480	43,776	45,096	46,476	46,476	46,476	47,880	47,880	49,356	49,356	49.356	50,832	52,356	53,940	55,584
	$/hr	18.10	18.68	19.25	19.82	20.42	21.05	21.68	22.34	22.34	22.34	23.02	23.02	23 73	23.73	23.73	24.44	25.17	25 93	26.72
	46	$3,173	$3,269	$3,367	$3,470	$3,576	$3,686	$3,794	$3,912	$3,912	$3,912	$4,031	$4,031	$4,153	$4,153	$4,153	$4,277	$4,406	$4,540	$4,676
	$/yr	38,076	39,228	40,404	41,640	42,912	44,232	45,528	46,944	46,944	46,944	48,372	48,372	49,836	49,836	49,836	51,324	52,872	54,480	56,112
	$/hr	18.31	18.86	19.43	20.02	20.63	21.27	21.89	22.57	22.57	22.57	23.26	23.26	23.96	23.96	23.96	24.68	25.42	26.19	26.98
	47	$3,205	$3,303	$3,401	$3,505	$3,612	$3,722	$3,833	$3,949	$3,949	$3,949	$4,071	$4,071	$4,194	$4,194	$4,194	$4,319	$4,451	$4,587	$4,727
	$/yr	38,460	39,636	40,812	42,060	43,344	44,664	45,996	47,388	47,388	47,388	48,852	48,852	50,328	50,328	50,328	51,828	53,412	55,044	56,724
	$/hr	18.49	19.06	19.62	20.22	20.84	21.47	22.11	22.78	22.78	22.78	23.49	23.49	24.20	24.20	24.20	24.92	25.68	26.46	27.27
	48	$3,237	$3,337	$3,436	$3,540	$3,648	$3,758	$3,873	$3,990	$3,990	$3,990	$4,113	$4,113	$4,236	$4,236	$4,236	$4,363	$4,495	$4,632	$4,772
	$/yr	38,844	40,044	41,232	42,480	43,776	45,096	46,476	47,880	47,880	47,880	49,356	49.356	50.832	50.832	50,832	52,356	53,940	55,584	57,264
	(/hr	18.68	19.25	19.82	20.42	21.05	21.68	22.34	23.02	23.02	23.02	23.73	23.73	24.44	24.44	24.44	25.17	25.93	26.72	27.53
	49	$3,269	$3,367	$3,470	$3,576	$3,686	$3,794	$3,912	$4,031	$4,031	$4,031	$4,153	$4,153	$4,277	$4,277	$4,277	$4,406	$4,540	$4,676	$4,818
	$/yr	39,228	40,404	41,640	42,912	44,232	45,528	46,944	48,372	48,372	48,372	49,836	49,836	51,324	51,324	51,324	52,872	54,480	56,112	57,816
	$/hr	18.86	19.43	20.02	20.63	21.27	21.89	22.57	23.26	23.26	23.26	23.96	23.96	24 68	24.68	24.68	25.42	26.19	26.98	27.80
00	50	$3,303	$3,401	$3,505	$3,612	$3,722	$3,833	$3,949	$4,071	$4,071	$4,071	$4,194	$4,194	$4,319	$4,319	$4,319	$4,451	$4,587	$4,727	$4,868
o	$/yr	39,636	40,812	42,060	43,344	44,664	45,996	47,388	48,852	48,852	48,852	50,328	50,328	51,828	51,828	51,828	53.412	55.044	56.724	58,416
	$/hr	19.06	19.62	20.22	20.84	21.47	22.11	22.78	23.49	23.49	23.49	24.20	24.20	24.92	24.92	24.92	25.68	26.46	27.27	28.08
	51	$3,337	$3,436	$3,540	$3,648	$3,758	$3,873	$3,990	$4,113	$4,113	$4,113	$4,236	$4,236	$4,363	$4,363	$4,363	$4,495	$4,632	$4,772	$4,916
	$/yr	40,044	41,232	42,480	43,776	45,096	46,476	47,880	49,356	49,356	49,356	50,832	50,832	52,356	52,356	52,356	53,940	55,584	57,264	58,992
	$/hr	19.25	19.82	20.42	21.05	21.68	22,34	23.02	23.73	23.73	23.73	24.44	24.44	25.17	25.17	25.17	25.93	26.72	27.53	28.36
	52	$3,367	$3,470	$3,576	$3,686	$3,794	$3,912	$4,031	$4,153	$4,153	$4,153	$4,277	$4,277	$4,406	$4,406	$4,406	$4,540	$4,676	$4,818	$4,964
	$/yr	40,404	41,640	42,912	44,232	45,528	46,944	48,372	49,836	49.836	49.836	51,324	51,324	52,872	52,872	52,872	54,480	56,112	57,816	59,568
	$/hr	19.43	20.02	20 63	21.27	21.89	22.57	23.26	23.96	23.96	23.96	24.68	24.68	25.42	25.42	25.42	26.19	26.98	27.80	28.64
	53	$3,401	$3,505	$3,612	$3,722	$3,833	$3,949	$4,071	$4,194	$4,194	$4,194	$4,319	$4,319	$4,451	$4,451	$4,451	$4,587	$4,727	$4,868	$5,012
	$/yr	40,812	42,060	43,344	44,664	45,996	47,388	48,852	50,328	50,328	50,328	51,828	51,828	53,412	53,412	53,412	55,044	56,724	58,416	60,144
	$/hr	19.62	20.22	20.84	21.47	22.11	22.78	23.49	24.20	24.20	24.20	24.92	24.92	25.68	25.68	25.68	26.46	27.27	28.08	28.92
	f- r	*, —> ■	H, m r- l -		-H .-, t rr i-1			A J J j- A		- 1 A A A	■ A A A	* , A	J A A A	-■ * JAA	*	.	. A. A	* . -	■ - A A		A _	A	
			----- , 		—. ■-	-■	—			--	 . " -	--	, —	"4	'	4	. — —	—	>								W u J X. M j
	(/yr	41,232	42,480	43,776	45,096	46,476	47,880	49,356	50,832	50,832	50,832	52,356	52,356	53,940	53,940	53.940	55.584	57,264	58.992	60,768
	$/hr	19.82	20.42	21.05	21.68	22.34	23.02	23.73	24.44	24.44	24.44	2517	25.17	25.93	25.93	25,93	26.72	27.53	28.36	29.22
	55	$3,470	$3,576	$3,686	$3,794	$3,912	$4,031	$4,153	$4,277	$4,277	$4,277	$4,406	$4,406	$4,540	$4,540	$4,540	$4,676	$4,818	$4,964	$5,113
	$/yr	41,640	42,912	44,232	45,528	46,944	48,372	49,836	51,324	51,324	51,324	52,872	52.872	54,480	54,480	54,480	56,112	57,816	59,568	61,356
	$/hr	20.02	20.63	21.27	21.89	22.57	23.26	23.96	24.68	24.68	24.68	25.42	25.42	26.19	26.19	26.19	26.98	27.80	28.64	29.50
	56	$3,505	$3,612	$3,722	$3,833	$3,949	$4,071	$4,194	$4,319	$4,319	$4,319	$4,451	$4,451	$4,587	$4,587	$4,587	$4,727	$4,868	$5,012	$5,164
	$/yr	42,060	43,344	44,664	45,996	47,388	48,852	50,328	51.828	51,828	51,828	53.412	53,412	55,044	55,044	55,044	56,724	58,416	60,144	61,968
	$/hr	20.22	20.84	21.47	22.11	22.78	23.49	24.20	24.92	24.92	24.92	25.68	25.68	26.46	26.46	26.46	27.27	28.08	28.92	29.79
	57	$3,540	$3,648	$3,758	$3,873	$3,990	$4,113	$4,236	$4,363	$4,363	$4,363	$4,495	$4,495	$4,632	$4,632	$4,632	$4,772	$4,916	$5,064	$5,216
	$/yr	42,480	43,776	45,096	46,476	47,880	49,356	50,832	52,356	52,356	52,356	53,940	53,940	55,584	55,584	55,584	57.264	58.992	60,768	62,592
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 5 erf 6
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B6 - Effective July 1,2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< 		 H	STEP 1	. —> J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP Steps	
																		R	S
$/hr	20.42	21.05	21,68	22,34	23.02	23.73	24.44	25.17	25.17	25.17	25.93	25.93	26.72	26.72	26.72	27.53	28.36	29,22	30,09
58	$3,576	$3,686	$3,794	$3,912	$4,031	$4,153	$4,277	$4,406	$4,406	$4,406	$4,540	$4,540	$4,676	$4,676	$4,676	$4,818	$4,964	$5,113	$5,266
$/yr	42,912	44,232	45,528	46,944	48,372	49,836	51,324	52,872	52,872	52,872	54,480	54,480	56,112	56,112	56,112	57,816	59,568	61,356	63,192
$/hr	20,63	21.27	21.89	22.57	23.26	23.96	24.68	25.42	25.42	25.42	26.19	26.19	26.98	26.98	26.98	27.80	28,64	29.50	30.38
59	$3,612	$3,722	$3,833	$3,949	$4,071	$4,194	$4,319	$4,451	$4,451	$4,451	$4,587	$4,587	$4,727	$4,727	$4,727	$4,868	$5,012	$5,164	$5,318
$/yr	43,344	44,664	45,996	47,388	48,852	50,328	51,828	53,412	53,412	53,412	55,044	55,044	56,724	56,724	56,724	58,416	60,144	61,968	63,816
$/hr	20.84	21,47	22,11	22.78	23.49	24.20	24.92	25.68	25.68	25.68	26.46	26.46	27.27	27.27	27.27	28.08	28.92	29.79	30.68
60	$3,648	$3,758	$3,873	$3,990	$4,113	$4,236	$4,363	$4,495	$4,495	$4,495	$4,632	$4,632	$4,772	$4,772	$4,772	$4,916	$5,064	$5,216	$5,372
$/yr	43,776	45,096	46,476	47,880	49,356	50,832	52,356	53,940	53,940	53,940	55,584	55,584	57,264	57,264	57,264	58,992	60,768	62,592	64,464
$/hr	21.05	21.68	22.34	23.02	23.73	24.44	25.17	25.93	25.93	25.93	26.72	26.72	27.53	27.53	27.53	28.36	29.22	30.09	30.99
61	$3,686	$3,794	$3,912	$4,031	$4,153	$4,277	$4,406	$4,540	$4,540	$4,540	$4,676	$4,676	$4,818	$4,818	$4,818	$4,964	$5,113	$5,266	$5,424
$/yr	44,232	45,528	46,944	48,372	49,836	51,324	52,872	54,480	54,480	54,480	56,112	56,112	57.816	57,816	57,816	59,568	61,356	63,192	65,088
$/hr	21,27	21.89	22.57	23.26	23.96	24.68	25.42	26.19	26.19	26.19	26.98	26.98	27.80	27.80	27.80	28.64	29.50	30.38	31.29
62	$3,722	$3,833	$3,949	$4,071	$4,194	$4,319	$4,451	$4,587	$4,587	$4,587	$4,727	$4,727	$4,868	$4,868	$4,868	$5,012	$5,164	$5,318	$5,479
$/yr	44,664	45,996	47,388	48,852	50,328	51,828	53,412	55,044	55,044	55,044	56,724	56,724	58,416	58,416	58,416	60,144	61,968	63,816	65,748
$/hr	21.47	22.11	22.78	23.49	24.20	24.92	25.68	26.46	26.46	26.46	27.27	27.27	28.08	28.08	28.08	28.92	29.79	30.68	31.61
63	$3,758	$3,873	$3,990	$4,113	$4,236	$4,363	$4,495	$4,632	$4,632	$4,632	$4,772	$4,772	$4,916	$4,916	$4,916	$5,064	$5,216	$5,372	$5,533
$/yr	45,096	46,476	47,880	49,356	50,832	52,356	53,940	55,584	55,584	55,584	57.264	57.264	58,992	58,992	58,992	60,768	62,592	64,464	66,396
$/hr	2168	22.34	23.02	23.73	24.44	25.17	25.93	26.72	26.72	26.72	27.53	27.53	28.36	28.36	28.36	29.22	30.09	30.99	31.92
64	$3,794	$3,912	$4,031	$4,153	$4,277	$4,406	$4,540	$4,676	$4,676	$4,676	$4,818	$4,818	$4,964	$4,964	$4,964	$5,113	$5,266	$5,424	$5,586
$/yr	45,528	46,944	48,372	49,836	51,324	52,872	54,480	56,112	56,112	56,112	57,816	57,816	59,568	59,568	59,568	61,356	63,192	65,088	67,032
$/hr	21.89	22,57	23.26	23.96	24.68	25.42	26.19	26.98	26.98	26.98	27.80	27.80	28.64	28.64	28.64	29.50	30.38	31.29	32.23 ,
65	$3,833	$3,949	$4,071	$4,194	$4,319	$4,451	$4,587	$4,727	$4,727	$4,727	$4,868	$4,868	$5,012	$5,012	$5,012	$5,164	$5,318	$5,479	$5,642
$/yr	45,996	47,388	48,852	50,328	51,828	53,412	55.044	56.724	56,724	56,724	58,416	58,416	60,144	60,144	60,144	61,968	63,816	65,748	67,704
Vhr	22.11	22.78	23.49	24.20	24.92	25.68	26.46	27.27	27.27	27.27	28.08	28.08	28.92	28.92	28.92	29.79	30.68	31.61	32.55
66	$3,873	$3,990	$4,113	$4,236	$4,363	$4,495	$4,632	$4,772	$4,772	$4,772	$4,916	$4,916	$5,064	$5,064	$5,064	$5,216	$5,372	$5,533	$5,700
$/yr	46,476	47,880	49,356	50,832	52,356	53,940	55,584	57,264	57,264	57,264	58,992	58,992	60.768	60,768	60,768	62,592	64,464	66,396	68,400
$/hr	22.34	23,02	23,73	24,44	25.17	25.93	26.72	27.53	27.53	27.53	28.36	28.36	29.22	29.22	29.22	30.09	30.99	31.92	32.88
67	$3,912	$4,031	$4,153	$4,277	$4,406	$4,540	$4,676	$4,818	$4,818	$4,818	$4,964	$4,964	$5,113	$5,113	$5,113	$5,266	$5,424	$5,586	$5,754
$/yr	46,944	48,372	49,836	51,324	52,872	54,480	56,112	57,816	57,816	57,816	59,568	59,568	61,356	61,356	61,356	63,192	65,088	67,032	69,048
$/hr	22.57	23.26	• 23.96	24.68	25.42	26.19	26.98	27.80	27.80	27.80	28.64	28.64	29.50	29.50	29,50	30.38	31.29	32.23	33.20
68	$3,949	$4,071	$4,194	$4,319	$4,451	$4,587	$4,727	$4,868	$4,868	$4,868	$5,012	$5,012	$5,164	$5,164	$5,164	$5,318	$5,479	$5,642	$5,811
$/yr	47,388	48,852	50,328	51,828	53,412	55,044	56,724	58,416	58,416	58,416	60,144	60,144	61,968	61,968	61,968	63,816	65,748	67,704	69,732
$/hr	22.78	23.49	24,20	24.92	25.68	26.46	27.27	28.08	28.08	28.08	28.92	28.92	29.79	29.79	29.79	30.68	31.61	32.55	33.53
69	$3,990	$4,113	$4,236	$4,363	$4,495	$4,632	$4,772	$4,916	$4,916	$4,916	$5,064	$5,064	$5,216	$5,216	$5,216	$5,372	$5,533	$5,700	$5,871
$/yr	47,880	49,356	50,832	52,356	53,940	55,584	57,264	58,992	58,992	58,992	60,768	60,768	62,592	62,592	62,592	64,464	66,396	68,400	70,452
$/hr	23,02	23.73	24.44	25.17	25.93	26.72	27.53	28.36	28.36	28.36	29.22	29.22	30.09	30.09	30.09	30.99	31.92	32.88	33.87
70	$4,031	$4,153	$4,277	$4,406	$4,540	$4,676	$4,818	$4,964	$4,964	$4,964	$5,113	$5,113	$5,266	$5,266	$5,266	$5,424	$5,586	$5,754	$5,927
$/yr	48,372	49,836	51,324	52,872	54,480	56,112	57.816	59,568	59,568	59,568	61,356	61,356	63,192	63,192	63,192	65,088	67,032	69,048	71,124
$/hr	23.26	23.96	24.68	25.42	26.19	26.98	27.80	28.64	28.64	28.64	29.50	29.50	30.38	30.38	30.38	31.29	32.23	33.20	34.19
Prepared by the UW Compan&abDn Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Pape €
APPENDIX VI
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1,2007
p	< ...	-STEP ---->	CEGP Step*
	ABCOEFGH	1	JKLMNOPQ	R	S
0	SI .950	$2,009	$2,070	$2,133	$2,197	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,404	$2,404	$2,477	$2,477	$2,551	$2,551	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875
$/yr	23,400	24,108	24,840	25,596	26,364	27,180	27,996	28,848	28,848	28,846	29,724	29,724	30,612	30,612	30,612	31,560	32,496	33,504	34,500
$/hr	11.25	11.59	11.94	12.31	12.68	13.07	13.46	13.87	13.87	13.87	14.29	14.29	14.72	14.72	14.72	15.17	15.62	16.11	16.59
1	$1,969	$2,030	$2,091	$2,155	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,427	$2,427	$2,501	$2,501	$2,577	$2,577	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904
$/yr	23.628	24,360	25,092	25,860	26,640	27,444	28,284	29,124	29,124	29,124	30,012	30,012	30,924	30,924	30,924	31,872	32,832	33,816	34,848
$/hr	11.36	11.71	12.06	12.43	12.81	13.19	13.60	14.00	14.00	14.00	14.43	14.43	14.87	14.87	14.87	15.32	15.78	16.26	16.75
2	$1,990	$2,051	$2,111	$2,175	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,452	$2,452	$2,526	$2,526	$2,604	$2,604	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934
$/yr	23,880	24,612	25,332	26,100	26,904	27,708	28,548	29,424	29,424	29.424	30,312	30,312	31,248	31.248	31,248	32,172	33,156	34,152	35,208
$/hr	11.48	11.83	12.18	12.55	12.93	13.32	13.73	14.15	14.15	14.15	14.57	14.57	15.02	15.02	15.02	15.47	15.94	16.42	16.93
3	$2,009	$2,070	$2,133	$2,197	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,477	$2,477	$2,551	$2,551	$2,630	$2,630	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963
$/yr	24,108	24,840	25,596	26,364	27,180	27,996	28,848	29,724	29,724	29,724	30,612	30,612	31,560	31,560	31,560	32,496	33,504	34,500	35,556
$/hr	11.59	11.94	12.31	12.68	13.07	13.46	13.87	14.29	14.29	14.29	14.72	14.72	15.17	15.17	15.17	15.62	16.11	16.59	17.09
4	$2,030	$2,091	$2,155	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,501	$2,501	$2,577	$2,577	$2,656	$2,656	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992
$/yr	24,360	25,092	25,860	26,640	27,444	28,284	29,124	30,012	30,012	30,012	30,924	30,924	31,872	31.872	31,872	32,832	33,816	34,848	35,904
w	11.71	12.06	12.43	12.81	13.19	13.60	14.00	14.43	14.43	14.43	14.87	14.87	15.32	15.32	15.32	15.78	16.26	16.75	17.26
5	$2,051	$2,111	$2,175	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,526	$2,526	$2,604	$2,604	$2,681	$2,681	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022
$/yr	24,612	25,332	26,100	26,904	27,708	28,548	29,424	30,312	30,312	30,312	31,248	31,248	32,172	32,172	32,172	33,156	34,152	35,208	36,264
$/hr	11.83	12.18	12.55	12.93	13.32	13.73	14.15	14.57	14.57	14.57	15.02	15.02	15.47	15.47	15.47	15.94	16.42	16.93	17.43
6	$2,070	$2,133	$2,197	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,551	$2,551	$2,630	$2,630	$2,708	$2,708	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053
$/yr	24,840	25,596	26,364	27,180	27,996	28,848	29,724	30,612	30,612	30,612	31,560	31,560	32.496	32,496	32,496	33,504	34,500	35,556	36,636
$/hr	11.94	,12.31	12.68	13.07	13.46	13.87	14.29	14.72	14.72	14.72	15.17	15.17	15.62	15.62	15.62	16.11	16.59	17.09	17.61
7	$2,091	$2,155	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2 427	$2,501	$2 577	$2,577	$2 577	$2,656	$2,656	$2,736	$2,736	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083
$/yr	25,092	25,860	26,640	27,444	28,264	29,124	30,012	30,924	30,924	30,924	31,872	31,872	32,832	32,832	32,832	33,816	34,848	35,904	36,996
$/hr	12.06	12.43	12.81	13.19	13.60	14.00	14.43	14.87	14.87	14.87	15.32	15.32	15.78	15.78	15.78	16.26	16.75	17.26	17.79
8	$2,111	$2,175	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,604	$2,604	$2,681	$2,681	$2,763	$2,763	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114
Vyr	25,332	26,100	26,904	27,708	28,548	29,424	30,312	31,248	31,248	31,248	32,172	32,172	33,156	33.156	33,156	34,152	35,208	36,264	37,368
$/hr	12.18	12.55	12.93	13.32	13.73	14.15	14.57	15.02	15.02	15.02	15.47	15.47	15.94	15.94	15.94	16.42	16.93	17.43	17.97
9	$2,133	$2,197	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,630	$2,630	$2,630	$2,708	$2,708	$2,792	$2,792	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145
$/yr	25,596	26,364	27,180	27,996	28,848	29,724	30,612	31,560	31,560	31,560	32,496	32,496	33,504	33,504	33,504	34,500	35,556	36,636	37,740
SZhr	12,31	12.68	13.07	13.46	13.87	14.29	14.72	15.17	15.17	15.17	15.62	15.62	16.11	16.11	16.11	16.59	17.09	17.61	18.14
Prepared by ihe UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 1 of 9
APPENDIX VI
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements																				
			Payscale Table B7 -								Effective July 1,2007									
	p	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< ... H	STEP 1	J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP R	Steps S
	10	$2,155	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,656	$2,656	$2,736	$2,736	$2,818	$2,818	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175
	$/yr	25,860	26,640	27,444	28,284 .	29,124	30,012	30,924	31,872	31,872	31,872	32,832	32,832	33,816	33,816	33,816	34,848	35,904	36,996	38,100
	$/hr	12,43	12.81	13.19	13.60	14.00	14.43	14.87	15.32	15.32	15,32	15.78	15.78	16.26	16.26	16.26	16.75	17.26	17.79	18.32
	11	$2,175	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,681	$2,681	$2,763	$2,763	$2,846	$2,846	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207
	S/yr	26,100	26,904	27,708	28,548	29,424	30,312	31,248	32,172	32,172	32,172	33,156	33,156	34,152	34,152	34,152	35,208	36,264	37,368	38,484
	$/hr	12.55	12.93	13.32	13.73	14.15	14.57	15.02	15.47	15.47	15.47	15.94	15.94	16.42	16.42	16.42	16.93	17.43	17.97	18.50
	12	$2,197	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,708	$2,708	$2,792	$2,792	$2,875	$2,875	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239
	$/yr	26,364	27,180	27,996	28,848	29,724	30,612	31,560	32,496	32,496	32,496	33,504	33,504	34,500	34,500	34,500	35,556	36,636	37,740	38,868
	$/hr	12.68	13.07	13.46	13.87	14.29	14.72	15.17	15.62	15.62	15.62	16.11	16.11	16.59	16.59	16.59	17.09	17.61	18.14	18.69
	13	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,736	$2,736	$2,818	$2,818	$2,904	$2,904	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272
	$/yr	26,640	27,444	28,284	29,124	30,012	30,924	31,872	32,832	32,832	32,832	33,816	33,816	34,848	34,848	34,848	35,904	36,996	38,100	39,264
	$/hr	12,81	13.19	13.60	14.00	14.43	14.87	15.32	15.78	15.78	15.78	16.26	16.26	16.75	16.75	16.75	17.26	17.79	18.32	18.88
	14	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,763	$2,763	$2,846	$2,846	$2,934	$2,934	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304
co co	$/yr	26,904	27,708	28,548	29,424	30,312	31,248	32,172	33,156	33,156	33,156	34.152	34,152	35,208	35,208	35,208	36,264	37,368	38,484	39,648
	$/hr	12.93	13.32	13.73	14.15	14.57	15.02	15.47	15.94	15.94	15.94	16.42	16.42	16.93	16.93	16.93	17.43	17.97	18.50	19.06
	15	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,792	$2,792	$2,875	$2,875	$2,963	$2,963	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337
	S/yr	27,180	27,996	28,848	29,724	30,612	31,560	32,496	33,504	33,504	33,504	34,500	34,500	35,556	35,556	35,556	36,636	37,740	38,868	40,044
	$/hr	13.07	13.46	13.87	14.29	14.72	15.17	15,62	16,11	16.11	16.11	16.59	16,59	17.09	17.09	17.09	17.61	18.14	18.69	19.25
	16	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,818	$2,818	$2,904	$2,904	$2,992	$2,992	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371
	$/yr	27,444	28,284	29,124	30,012	30,924	31,872	32,832	33,816	33,816	33,816	34,848	34,848	35,904	35,904	35,904	36,996	38,100	39,264	40,452
	$/hr	13.19	13.60	14.00	14.43	14.87	15.32	15.78	16.26	16.26	16.26	16.75	16.75	17.26	17.26	17.26	17.79	18.32	18.88	19.45
	17	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,846	$2,846	$2,934	$2,934	$3,022	$3,022	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304	$3,405
	S/yr	27,708	28,548	29,424	30,312	31,248	32,172	33,156	34,152	34,152	34,152	35,208	35,208	36,264	36,264	36,264	37,368	38,464	39,648	40,860
	$/hr	13.32	13.73	14.15	14.57	15.02	15.47	15.94	16.42	16.42	16.42	16.93	16.93	17.43	17.43	17.43	17.97	18.50	19.06	19.64
	18	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,875	$2,875	$2,963	$2,963	$3,053	$3,053	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438
	S/yr	27,996	28,848	29,724	30,612	31,560	32,496	33,504	34,500	34,500	34,500	35,556	35,556	36,636	36,636	36,636	37,740	38,868	40,044	41,256
	$/hr	13.46	13.87	14.29	14.72	15.17	15.62	16.11	16.59	16,59	16.59	17.09	17.09	17 61	17.61	17.61	18.14	18.69	19.25	19 83
	19	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,904	$2,904	$2,992	$2,992	$3,083	$3,083	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474
	$/yr	28,284	29,124	30,012	30,924	31,872	32,832	33,816	34,848	34,848	34,848	35,904	35,904	36,996	36,996	36,996	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688
	$/hr	13,60	14.00	14.43	14.87	15.32	15.78	16.26	16.75	16.75	16.75	17.26	17.26	17.79	17.79	17.79	18.32	18.88	19.45	20.04
Prepared by the LTW Corripensafon Office
Effects 7/1/2007
Pape 2 of 9
APPENDIX VI
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1,2007
p		- STEP	CEGP Steps
	ABCDEFGH	1	JKLMNOPQ	R	S
$3,509
$2,763
$2,934
$2,934
$3,114
$3,114
$3,114
$3,207
$3,304
$3,405
$2,379
$2,452
$2,526
$2,604
$2,661
$2,846
$2,934
$3,022
$3,022
20
$/yr $/hr
28,548
29,424
30,312
31,248
32,172
33,156
34,152
35,208
35,208
35,208
36,264
36,264
37,368
37,368
13.73
14.57
15.02
15.47
15.94
16.42
16.93
16.93
16.93
17.43
17.43
17.97
17.97
37,368
17.97
38,484
39,648
40,860
42,108
18.50
19.06
19.64
20.24
21
$2,404
£
$/yr
$/hf
22
$/yr $/hr
23
$/yr
$/hr
24
$/yr $/hr
25
$/yr $/hr
26
ilyr $/hr
27
$/yr $/hr
28
$/yr $/tir
29
$/yr $/hr
28,848
$2,477
29,724
$2,551
$2,630
13.87
14.29
$2,427
29,124
14.00
$2,452
29,424
14.15
$2,477
29,724
14.29
$2,501
30,012
14.43
$2,526
30,312
14.57
$2,551
3o,6l2
14.72
$2,577
30,924
14.87
$2,604
31,248
15.02
$2,501
30,012
14.43
$2,526
30,312
14.57
$2,551 30,612 14.72
$2,577
30,924
14.87
$2,604
31,248 15.02
$2,630
31.560
15.17
$2,656
31,872
15.32
$2,681
32,172
15.47
30,612
31,560
$2,708
32,496
$2,792
33,504
14.72
15.17
15.62
16.11
$2,577
$2,656
$2,736
$2,818
30,924
31,872
32,832
33,816
14.87
15.32
15.78
16.26
$2,604
31,248
15.02
$2,630
31,560
$2,656
31,872
15.32
$2,681
32,172
15.47
$2,708
32.496
15.62
$2,736
32,832
15.78
$2,763
33,156
15.94
$2,681
32,172
$2,763
33,156
$2,846
34,152
15.47
15.94
16.42
$2,708
32,496
15.62
$2,736
32,832
15.78
$2,763
33,156
15.94
$2,792
33,504
16.11
$2,818
33,816
16.26
$2,846
34,152
16.42
$2,792
33,504
16.11
$2,818
33,816
16.26
$2,846
34,152
16.42
$2,875
34,500
16.59
$2,904
34,848
16.75
$2,934
35,208
16.93
$2,875
34,500
16 59
$2,904
34,848
16.75
$2,934
35,208
16.93
$2,963
35,556
17.09
$2,992
35,904
$3,022
36,264
17.43
$2,875
34,500
16.59
$2,904
34,848
16.75
$2,934
35,208
16.93
$2,963
35,556
17.09
$2,992
35,904
$3,022
36,264
17.43
$3,053
36,636
17.61
$3,083
36,996
17.79
$3,114
37,368
17.97
$2,963
35,556
17.09
$2,992
35,904
17.26
$3,022
36,264
17.43
$3,053
36,636
17.61
$3,083
36,996
17.79
$3,114
37,368
17.97
$3,145
37,740
18.14
$3,175
38,100
18.32
$3,207
38,484
18.50
$2,963
35,556
17.09
$2,992
35,904
17.26
$3,022
36,264
17.43
$3,053
36,636
17.61
$3,083
36,996
17.79
$3,114
37,368
17.97
$3,145
37,740
18.14
$3,175
38,100
18.32
$3,207
38,484
18.50
$2,963
35,556
17.09
$2,992
35,904
17.26
$3,022
36,264
17.43
$3,053
36,636
17.61
$3,083
36,996
17.79
$3,114
37,368
$3,145
37,740
18.14
$3,175
38,100
18.32
$3,207
38,484
18.50
$3,053
36,636
17.61
$3,083
36,996
17.79
$3,114
37,368
17.97
$3,145
37,740
18.14
$3,175
38,100
18.32
$3,207
38,484
18.50
$3,239
38,868
18.69
$3,272
39,264
18.88
$3,304
39.648
19.06
$3,053
$3,145
$3,145
36,636
37,740
37,740
$3,145
37,740
$3,239
38,868
17.61
18.14
18.14
18.14
18.69
$3,083
36,996
17.79
$3,114
37,368
17.97
$3,145
37,740
18.14
$3,175
38,100
18.32
$3,207
38.484
18.50
$3 239
38,868
18.69
$3,272
39,264
18.88
$3,304
39,648
19.06
$3,175
38,100
18.32 $3,207
38,484
18.50
$3,239
38,868
18.69
$3,272
39,264
18.88
$3,304
39.648
19.06
$3 337
40,044
19.25
$3,371
40,452
19.45
$3,405
40,860
19.64
$3,337
40,044
19.25
$3,438
41,256
19.83
$3,543
42,516
20.44
$3,175
$3,175
$3,272
$3,371
$3,474
$3,579
38,100
38,100
39,264
40,452
41,688
42,948
18.32
18.32
18.88
19.45
20.04
20.65
$3,207
38,484
$3,207
$3,304
$3,405
18.50
38,484 18.50
39,648
40,860
$3,509
42,108
$3,614
43,368
19.06
19.64
20.24
20.85
$3,239
38,868
$3,239
38,868
$3,337
40,044
18.69
18.69
19.25
$3,438
41,256
19.83
$3,543
$3,650
42,516
43,800
20.44
21.06
$3,272
39,264
18.88
$3,304
39,648
19.06
$3 337
40.044
19.25
$3,371
40,452
19.45
$3,405
40,860
19.64
$3,272
39,264
18.88
$3,371
$3,474
40,452
41,688
$3,579
42,948
$3,687
44,244
19.45
20.04
20.65
21.27
$3,304
39,648
19.06
$.3 337
40.044
19.25
$3,371
40,452
19.45
$3,405
40,860
19.64
$3,405
40,860
19.64
•$3 43?
41,256
19.83
$3,474
41,688
20.04
$3,509
42,108
20.24
$3,509
42.108
20.24
$3,643
42,516
20.44
$3,579
42,948
20.65
$3,614
43,368
20.85
$3,614
$3,724
43,368
44,688
20.85
21.48
$3,650
43,800
21.06
$3,687
44,244
21.27
$3,724
44,688
21.48
$3761
45,132
21.70
$3,799
45,588
21.92
$3,839
46,068
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7,1/2007
Page 3 of 9

P
	A	B	C	D	E
30	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963
$/yr	31,560	32,496	33,504	34,500	35,556
$/hr	15.17	15.62	16.11	16.59	17.09
31	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992
$/yr	31,872	32,832	33,816	34,848	35,904
$/hr	15.32	16.78	16.26	16.75	17.26
32	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022
$/yr	32,172	33.156	34.152	35,208	36,264
$/hr	15,47	15.94	16.42	16.93	17.43
33	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053
$/yr	32,496	33,504	34,500	35,556	36,636
$/hr	15.62	16.11	16.59	17.09	17.61
34	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083
$/yr	32,832	33,816	34,848	35,904	36,996
$/hr	15 78	16.26	16.75	17.26	17.79
35	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114
$/yr	33,156	34,152	35,208	36,264	37.368
$/hr	15.94	16.42	16.93	17.43	17.97
36	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145
$/yr	33,504	34,500	35,556	36,636	37,740
$/hr	16.11	16.59	17.09	17.61	18.14
37	$2,81 B	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175
$/yr	33,816	34,848	35,904	36,996	38,100
$/hr	16.26	16.75	17.26	17.79	18.32
38	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207
$/yr	34,152	35,208	36,264	37,368	38,484
$/hr	16.42	16.93	17.43	17.97	18.50
39	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239
$/yr	34,500	35,556	36,636	37,740	38,868
$/hr	16.59	17.09	17.61	18.14	18.69
40	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272
$/yr	34,848	35,904	36,996	38,100	39,264
$/hr	16.75	17.26	17.79	18.32	18.88
41	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304
$/yr	35,208	36,264	37,368	38,484	39,648
$/hr	16.93	17.43	17.97	18.50	19.06
42	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337
APPENDIX VI
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1,2007
< ---■ STEP ---->
F	G	H	1		J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q
$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,239	$3,239	$3,337	$3,337	$3,438	$3,438	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650
36,636	37,740	38,868	38,868	38,868	40,044	40,044	41,256	41,256	41,256	42,516	43,800
17.61	18.14	18.69	18.69	18.69	19.25	19.25	19.83	19.83	19.83	20.44	21.06
$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,272	$3,272	$3,371	$3,371	$3,474	$3,474	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687
36,996	38,100	39,264	39,264	39,264	40,452	40,452	41,688	41,688	41,688	42,948	44,244
17.79	18.32	18.88	18.88	18.88	19.45	19.45	20.04	20.04	20.04	20.65	21.27
$3,114	$3,207	$3,304	$3,304	$3,304	$3,405	$3,405	$3,509	$3,509	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724
37,368	38,484	39,648	39,648	39,648	40,860	40.860	42,108	42,108	42,108	43,368	44,688
17.97	18.50	19.06	19.06	19.06	19.64	19.64	20.24	20.24	20.24	20.85	21.48
$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,337	$3,337	$3,438	$3,438	$3,543	$3,543	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761
37.740	38,868	40,044	40,044	40,044	41,256	41,256	42,516	42,516	42,516	43,800	45,132
18.14	18.69	19.25	19.25	19.25	19.83	19.83	20.44	20.44	20.44	21.06	21.70
$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	$3,371	$3,371	$3,474	$3,474	$3,579	$3,579	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799
38,100	39,264	40,452	40,452	40,452	41,688	41.688	42,948	42,948	42,948	44,244	45,588
18.32	18.88	19.45	19.45	19.45	20.04	20.04	20.65	20.65	20.65	21.27	21.92
$3,207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,405	$3,405	$3,509	$3,509	$3,614	$3,614	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839
38,484	39,648	40,860	40,860	40,860	42,108	42,108	43,368	43,368	43,368	44,688	46,068
18,50	19.06	19.64	19.64	19.64	20.24	20.24	20.85	20.85	20.85	21,48	22.15
$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3,438	$3,438	$3,543	$3,543	$3,650	$3,650	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876
38,868	40,044	41,256	41,256	41,256	42,516	42,516	43,800	43,800	43,800	45,132	46,512
18.69	19,25	19.83	19.83	19.83	20.44	20.44	21.06	21.06	21.06	21.70	22.36
$3,272	$3,371	$3,474	$3,474	$3,474	$3,579	$3,579	$3,687	$3,687	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915
39,264	40,452	41,688	41,688	41,688	42,948	42,948	44,244	44,244	44,244	45,588	46,980
18.88	19.45	20.04	20.04	20.04	20.65	20.65	21.27	21.27	21.27	21.92	22.59
$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,509	$3,509	$3,614	$3,614	$3,724	$3,724	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954
39,648	40,860	42,108	42.108	42,108	43,368	43,368	44,688	44,688	44,688	46,068	47,448
19.06	19.64	20.24	20.24	20.24	20.85	20.85	21.48	21.48	21 48	22.15	22.81
$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,543	$3,543	$3,650	$3,650	$3,761	$3,761	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994
40,044	41,256	42,516	42,516	42,516	43,800	43,800	45,132	45,132	45,132	46,512	47,928
19.25	19.83	20.44	20.44	20.44	21.06	21.06	21.70	21.70	21.70	22.36	23.04
$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,579	$3,579	$3,687	$3,687	$3,799	$3,799	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034
40.452	41,688	42,948	42,948	42.948	44,244	44,244	45,588	45,588	45,588	46,980	48,408
19.45	20.04	20.65	20.65	20.65	21.27	21,27	21.92	21.92	21.92	22.59	23.27
$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,614	$3,614	$3,724	$3,724	$3,839	$3,839	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073
40,860	42,108	43,368	43,368	43,368	44,688	44,688	46,068	46,068	46,068	47,448	48,876
19.64	20.24	20.85	20.85	20.85	21.48	21.48	22.15	22.15	22.15	22,81	23.50
$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,650	$3,650	$3,761	$3,761	$3,876	$3,876	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116
CEGP Steps R________S
$3,761
45,132 21.70 $3,799
45,588
21.92 $3,839 46,068
22.15 $3,876 46,512
22.36 $3,915 46,980
22.59 $3,954 47,448
22.81 $3,994 47,928
2304
$4,034
48,408
23.27 $4,073 48,876
23.50 $4,116 49,392
23.75 $4,156 49,872
23.98 $4,197 50,364
24.21 $4,239
$3,876 46,512
22.36 $3,915 46,980
22.59 $3,954 47,448
22,81 $3,994 47,928
23.04 $4,034 48,408
23.27 $4,073 48,876
23.50 $4,116 49,392
23.75 $4,156 49,872 23.98
$4,197 50,364
24.21 $4,239 50,868
24.46 $4,282 51,384 24,70 $4,325
51,900 24.95 $4,368
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 4 of 9
APPENDIX VI
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1,2007
	p	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< -.. H	STEP I	J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP Steps	
																			R	S
	$/yr	35,556	36,636	37.740	38,868	40,044	41,256	42,516	43,800	43,800	43,800	45,132	45,132	46,512	46,512	46,512	47,928	49,392	50,868	52,416
	$/hr	17.09	17.61	18.14	18.69	19.25	19,83	20.44	21.06	21.06	21.06	21.70	21.70	22.36	22.36	22.36	23.04	23.75	24.46	25,20
	43	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,687	$3,687	$3,799	$3,799	$3,915	$3,915	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411
	$/yr	35,904	36,996	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688	42,948	44.244	44,244	44,244	45,588	45,588	46,980	46,980	46.980	48,408	49,872	51,384	52.932
	$/hr	17.26	17.79	18 32	18.88	19.45	20,04	20.65	21.27	21.27	21.27	21.92	21.92	22.59	22.59	22.59	23.27	23.98	24.70	25.45
	44	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,724	$3,724	$3,839	$3,839	$3,954	$3,954	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456
	$/yr	36,264	37,368	38,484	39,648	40,860	42,108	43,368	44,688	44,688	44,688	46,068	46,068	47,448	47,448	47,448	48,876	50,364	51,900	53,472
	$/hr	17.43	17.97	18,50	19,06	19.64	20,24	20.85	21.48	21.48	21.48	22.15	22.15	22.81	22.81	22.81	23.50	24.21	24.95	25.71
	45	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,761	$3,761	$3,876	$3,876	$3,994	$3,994	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501
	$/yr	36,636	37,740	38,868	40,044	41.256	42,516	43,800	45,132	45,132	45,132	46,512	46,512	47,928	47.928	47.928	49,392	50,868	52,416	54,012
	$/hr	17,61	16.14	18.69	19.25	19.83	20.44	21.06	21.70	21,70	21,70	22,36	22.36	23.04	23.04	23.04	23.75	24.46	25.20	25,97
	46	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,799	$3,799	$3,915	$3,915	$4,034	$4,034	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545
	$/yr	36,996	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688	42,948	44,244	45,588	45,588	45,588	46,980	46,980	48,408	48,408	48,408	49,872	51,384	52,932	54,540
	$ftir	17.79	18.32	18.88	19 45	20.04	20.65	21.27	21.92	21.92	21.92	22.59	22.59	23.27	23.27	23.27	23.98	24.70	25.45	26.22
	47	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,839	$3,839	$3,954	$3,954	$4,073	$4,073	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591
	$/yr	37,368	38,484	39,648	40,860	42,108	43,368	44,688	46,068	46,068	46,068	47,448	47,448	48.676	48,876	48,676	50,364	51,900	53,472	55,092
	$/hr	17.97	18.50	19.06	19.64	20.24	20.85	21.48	22.15	22.15	22.15	22.81	22.81	23.50	23,50	23,50	24.21	24.95	25.71	26.49
Ob	48	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,876	$3,876	$3,994	$3,994	$4,116	$4,116	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638
Oi	$/yr	37,740	38,868	40,044	41,256	42,516	43,800	45,132	46,512	46,512	46,512	47,928	47,928	49.392	49,392	49,392	50,868	52,416	54,012	55,656
	$/hr	18.14	18.69	19.25	19.83	20.44	21.06	21.70	22 36	22.36	22.36	23.04	23.04	23.75	23.75	23,75	24.46	25.20	25.97	26.76
	49	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$3,915	$3,915	$4,034	$4,034	$4,156	$4,156	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682
	$/yr	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688	42,948	44.244	45,588	46,980	46,980	46,980	48,408	48,408	49,872	49.872	49,872	51.384	52,932	54,540	56,184
	$/hr	18.32	18.88	19.45	20.04	20.65	21.27	21.92	22.59	22,59	22.59	23.27	23.27	23.98	23.98	23.98	24.70	25.45	26.22	27.01
	50	$3,207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$3,954	$3,954	$4,073	$4,073	$4,197	$4,197	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731
	$/yr	38.484	39,648	40,860	42,108	43,368	44,688	46,068	47,448	47,448	47,448	48,876	48,876	50,364	50,364	50,364	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,772
	$/hr	18.50	19.06	19.64	20.24	20.85	21.48	22.15	22.81	22.81	22.81	23.50	23.50	24.21	24.21	24.21	24.95	25.71	26.49	27.29
	51	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$3,994	$3,994	$4,116	$4,116	$4,239	$4,239	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778
	$/yr	38,868	40,044	41,256	42,516	43,800	45,132	46,512	47,928	47,928	47,928	49,392	49,392	50,868	50,868	50,868	52,416	54,012	55,656	57,336
	$/hr	18.69	19.25	19.83 $3,474 41,688	20.44	21.06	.21.70	22.36	23.04	23.04	23.04	23.75	23.75	24.46	24,46	24.46	25.20	25.97	26.76	27.57
	$/yr	39,264	40,452		42,948	44.244	45,588	46’980	48408	48,408	48,408	49,872	49,872	51,384	51,384	51,384	52.932	54,540	56.184	57,924
	$/hr	18.88	19.45	20.04	20.65	21.27	21.92	22.59	23.27	23,27	23.27	23.98	23.98	24.70	24.70	24.70	25.45	26.22	27.01	27.85
	53	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,073	$4,073	$4,197	$4,197	$4,325	$4,325	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874
	$/yr	39,648	40,860	42,108	43,368	44,688	46,068	47,448	48,876	48,876	48,876	50,364	50,364	51,900	51,900	51,900	53,472	55.092	56.772	58,488
	$/hr	19.06	19.64	20.24	20.85	21.48	22.15	22.81	23.50	23.50	23.50	24.21	24.21	24.95	24.95	24.95	25.71	26.49	27.29	28.12
	54	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,116	$4,116	$4,239	$4,239	$4,368	$4,368	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923
	$/yr	40.044	41,256	42,516	43,800	45,132	46,512	47,928	49,392	49,392	49,392	50,868	50,868	52,416	52,416	52,416	54,012	55,656	57,336	59,076
	$/hr	19.25	19.83	20.44	21.06	21.70	22.36	23.04	23.75	23.75	23.75	24.46	24.46	25.20	25 20	25.20	25.97	26.76	27.57	28.40
	55	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,156	$4,156	$4,282	$4,282	$4,411	$4,411	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972
	$/yr	40,452	41.688	42.948	44,244	45,588	46,980	48,408	49,872	49,872	49,872	51,384	51,384	52,932	52,932	52,932	54,540	56,184	57,924	59,664
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/Z007
Pa^e5of 9
APPENDIX VI
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
p	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	<.... H	STEP 1	■>		L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGPStept	
										J	K							R	S
$/hr	19.45	20.04	20.65	21.27	21.92	22.59	23.27	23.98	23.98	23.98	24.70	24.70	25.45	25.45	25.45	26.22	27.01	27.85	28.68
56	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,197	$4,197	$4,325	$4,325	$4,456	$4,456	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023
$/yr	40,860	42,108	43,368	44,688	46,068	47,448	48,876	50,364	50,364	50,364	51,900	51,900	53,472	53,472	53,472	55.092	56.772	58,488	60,276
$/hr	19.64	20.24	20.85	21.48	22.15	22.81	23.50	24.21	24.2T	24.21	24.95	24 95	25.71	25.71	25.71	26,49	27.29	28.12	28.98
57	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,239	$4,239	54,368	$4,368	$4,501	$4,501	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071
$/yr	41,256	42,516	43,800	45,132	46,512	47,928	49,392	50,868	50.868	50,868	52,416	52,416	54,012	54,012	54,012	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852
$/hr	19.83	20.44	21.06	21.70	22.36	23.04	23.75	24.46	24.46	24.46	25.20	25.20	25.97	25.97	25.97	26.76	27.57	28.40	29.26
58	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,282	$4,282	$4,411	$4,411	$4,545	$4,545	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122
$/yr	41,688	42,948	44,244	45,588	46,980	48,408	49,872	51,384	51,384	51,384	52,932	52,932	54,540	54,540	54,540	56,184	57,924	59,664	61.464
$/hr	20.04	20.65	21.27	21.92	22.59	23.27	23.98	24.70	24.70	24.70	25.45	25.45	26.22	26.22	26.22	27.01	27.85	28.68	29.55
59	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,325	$4,325	$4,456	$4,456	$4,591	$4,591	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174
$/yr	42,108	43,368	44,688	46,068	47,448	48,876	50,364	51,900	51,900	51,900	53,472	53,472	55,092	55.092	55,092	56.772	58,488	60,276	62,088
$/hr	20.24	20.85	21.48	22.15	22.81	23.50	24.21	24.95	24.95	24.95	25.71	25.71	26.49	26.49	26.49	27.29	28.12	28.98	29.85
60	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,368	$4,368	$4,501	$4,501	$4,638	$4,638	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226
$/yr	42,516	43,800	45,132	46,512	47,928	49.392	50,868	52,416	52,416	52,416	54,012	54,012	55,656	55,656	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712
$/hr	20.44	21.06	21.70	22.36	23.04	23.75	24.46	25.20	25.20	25.20	25.97	25.97	26.76	26.76	26.76	27.57	28.40	29.26	30.15
61	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,411	$4,411	$4,545	$4,545	$4,682	$4,682	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279
$/yr	42,948	44,244	45,588	46,980	48,408	49,872	51,384	52,932	52,932	52,932	54,540	54,540	56,184	56,184	56,184	57,924	59.664	61,464	63.348
$Zhr	20.65	21,27	21.92	22.59	23.27	23.98	24.70	25.45	25.45	25.45	26.22	26.22	27.01	27.01	27.01	27.85	28.68	29.55	30.46
62	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,456	$4,456	$4,591	$4,591	$4,731	$4,731	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331
JJyr	43,368	44,688	46,068	47,448	48,876	50,364	51.900	53,472	53,472	53,472	55,092	55,092	56,772	56,772	56,772	58,488	60,276	62,088	63,972
$/hr	20.85	21.48	22.15	22.81	23.50	24.21	24.95	25.71	25.71	25.71	26.49	26.49	27.29	27.29	27.29	28.12	28.98	29.85	30.76
63	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,501	$4,501	$4,638	$4,638	$4,778	$4,778	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385
$/yr	43,800	45,132	46,512	47,928	49,392	50,868	52,416	54,012	54,012	54,012	55,656	55,656	57,336	57,336	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712	64,620
$/hr	21.06	21.70	22.36	23.04	23.75	24.46	25.20	25.97	25.97	25.97	26.76	26.76	27.57	27.57	27.57	28.40	29.26	30.15	31.07
64	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,545	$4,545	$4,682	$4,682	$4,827	$4,827	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439
$/yr	44,244	45,588	46,980	48,408	49,872	51,384	52,932	54,540	54,540	54,540	56,184	56,184	57,924	57,924	57,924	59,664	61,464	63,348	65,268
$/hr	21.27	21.92	22.59	23.27	23.98	24.70	25.45	26.22	26.22	26.22	27.01	27.01	27.85	27.85	27 85	28.68	29.55	30.46	31.38
65	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,591	$4,591	$4,731	$4,731	$4,874	$4,874	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492
$/yr	44,688	46,068	47,448	48,876	50,364	51,900	53,472	55,092	55,092	55,092	56,772	56,772	58,488	58,488	58.488	60,276	62,088	63.972	65,904
$/hr	21.48	22.15	22.81	23.50	24.21	24.95	25.71	26.49	26.49	26.49	27.29	27.29	28.12	28.12	28.12	28.98	29.85	30.76	31.68
66	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,638	$4,638	$4,778	$4,778	$4,923	$4,923	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548
$/yr	45,132	46,512	47,928	49,392	50,868	52,416	54,012	55,656	55,656	55,656	57,336	57,336	59,076	59,076	59,076	60,852	62,712	64,620	66,576
SZhr	21.70	22,36	23.04	23.75	24.46	25.20	25.97	26.76	26.76	26,76	27.57	27.57	28.40	28.40	28.40	29.26	30.15	31.07	32.01
67	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,2B2	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,682	$4,682	$4,827	$4,827	$4,972	$4,972	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604
Vyr	45,588	46,980	48,408	49,872	51,384	52,932	54,540	56,184	56,184	56,184	57,924	57,924	59,664	59,664	59,664	61,464	63,348	65,268	67,248
$/tlr	21.92	22.59	23.27	23.98	24.70	25.45	26.22	27.01	27.01	27.01	27.85	27.85	28.68	28.68	28.68	29.55	30.46	31.38	32.33
68	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,731	$4,731	$4,874	$4,874	$5,023	$5,023	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658
$/yr	46,068	47,448	48,876	50,364	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,772	56,772	56,772	58,488	58,488	60,276	60,276	60.276	62,088	63,972	65,904	67,896
$/hr	22.15	22.81	23.50	24.21	24.95	25.71	26.49	27.29	27.29	27.29	28.12	28.12	28.98	28.98	28.98	29.85	30.76	31.68	32.64
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 6 of 9
APPENDIX VI
University of Washington • Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1,2007
STEP----»	CEGP Steps
ABCDEFGH I JKLMNOPQ R S
69	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,778	$4,778	$4,923	$4,923	$5,071	$5,071	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714
Vyr	46,512	47,928	49,392	50,868	52.416	54,012	55,656	57,336	57,336	57,336	59,076	59,076	60,852	60,852	60,852	62,712	64,620	66.576	68,568
Mir	22.36	23.04	23.75	24.46	25.20	25.97	26.76	27.57	27.57	27.57	28.40	28.40	29.26	29.26	2926	30.15	31.07	32.01	32.97
70	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,827	$4,827	$4,972	$4,972	$5,122	$5,122	$5,122	$5279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772
$/yr	46,980	48,408	49,872	51,384	52,932	54,540	56,184	57,924	57,924	57,924	59,664	59,664	61,464	61,464	61,464	63,348	65,268	67,248	69,264
$/hr	22.59	2327	23.98	24.70	25.45	2622	27.01	27.85	27.85	27.85	28.68	28.68	29.55	29.55	29.55	30.46	31.38	32.33	33.30
71	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$4,874	$4,874	$5,023	$5,023	$5,174	$5,174	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829
$/yr	47,448	48,876	50,364	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,772	58,488	58,488	58,488	60276	60,276	62,088	62,088	62,088	63,972	65.904	67,896	69,948
$/hr	22.81	23.50	2421	24.95	25.71	26.49	27.29	28.12	28.12	28.12	28.98	28.98	29.85	29.85	29.85	30.76	31.68	32.64	33.63
72	$3,994	$4,116	$4239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$4,923	$4,923	$5,071	$5,071	$5,226	$5,226	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,888
Vyr	47,928	49,392	50,868	52,416	54,012	55,656	57,336	59,076	59,076	59,076	60,852	60,852	62,712	62,712	62,712	64,620	66,576	68,568	70,656
Mv	23.04	23.75	24.46	2520	25.97	26.76	27.57	28.40	28.40	28.40	2926	29.26	30.15	30.15	30.15	31.07	32.01	32.97	33.97
73	$4,034	$4,156	$4282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$4,972	$4,972	$5,122	$5,122	$5,279	$5,279	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772	$5,946
Vyr	48,408	49,872	51,384	52,932	54,540	56,184	57,924	59,664	59,664	59,664	61,464	61,464	63,348	63,348	63,348	65,268	67,248	69,264	71,352
$/hr	23.27	23.98	24.70	25.45	26.22	27.01	27.85	28.68	28.68	28.68	29.55	29.55	30.46	30.46	30.46	31.38	32.33	33.30	34.30
74	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,023	$5,023	$5,174	$5,174	$5,331	$5,331	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006
Vyr	48.876	50,364	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,772	58,488	60276	60.276	60276	62,088	62,088	63,972	63,972	63,972	65,904	67,896	69,948	72,072
Mir	23.50	2421	24.95	25.71	26.49	27.29	28.12	28.98	28.98	28.98	29.85	29.85	30.76	30.76	30.76	31.68	32.64	33.63	34.65
75	$4,116	$4239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,071	$5,071	$5,226	$5226	$5,385	$5,385	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,888	$6,066
Vyr	49.392	50,868	52,416	54,012	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852	60.852	60,852	62,712	62.712	64,620	64,620	64,620	66,576	68,568	70,656	72,792
Mir	23.75	24.46	2520	25.97	26.76	27.57	28.40	29.26	2926	2926	30.15	30.15	31.07	31.07	31.07	32.01	32.97	33.97	35.00
76	$4,156	$4282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,122	$5,122	$5,279	$5279	$5,439	$5,439	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772	$5,946	$6,126
Vyr	49,872	51,384	52.932	54,540	56,184	57,924	59,664	61,464	61,464	61,464	63,348	63,348	55.268	65268	65,268	67.248	69.264	71,352	73,512
Mw	23.98	24.70	25.45	26.22	27.01	27.85	28.68	29.55	29.55	29.55	30.46	30.46	31.38	31.38	31.38	32.33	33.30	34.30	35.34
77	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,174	$5,174	$5,331	$5,331	$5,492	$5,492	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006	$6,188
Wyr	50,364	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,772	58,488	60,276	62,088	62,088	62,088	63,972	63,972	65.904	65,904	65,904	67,896	69,948	72,072	74,256
$/hr	24.21	24.95	25.71	26.49	27.29	28.12	28.96	29.85	29.85	29.85	30.76	30 76	31.68	31.68	31.68	32.64	33.63	34.65	35.70
78	$4239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5226	$5,226	$5,385	$5,385	$5,548	$5,548	$5,548	$5,714	$5,888	$6,066	$6250
Wyr	50,868	52,416	54,012	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712	62.712	62,712	64,620	64,620	66,576	66,576	66,576	68,568	70,656	72,792	75,000
79	$4282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,279	$5,279	$5,439	$5,439	$5,604	$5,604	$5,604	$5,772	$5,946	$6,126	$6,313
	51,384	52,932	54.540	56.184	57,924	59,664	61,464	63,348	63,348	63,348	65,268	65,268	67,248	67,248	67,248	69,264	71,352	73,512	75,756
$/hr	24.70	25.45	2622	27.01	27.85	28.68	29.55	30.46	30.46	30.46	31.38	31.38	32.33	32.33	32.33	33.30	34.30	35.34	36.42
80	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,331	$5,331	$5,492	$5,492	$5,658	$5,658	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006	$6,188	$6,376
J/yr	51.900	53,472	55,092	56,772	58,488	60,276	62,088	63,972	63,972	63,972	65,904	65,904	67,896	67,896	67,896	69,948	72,072	74,256	76,512
Mir	24.95	25.71	26.49	27.29	28.12	28.98	29.85	30.76	30.76	30.76	31.68	31.68	32.64	32.64	32.64	33.63	34.65	35.70	36.78
81	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,385	$5,385	$5,548	$5,548	$5,714	$5,714	$5,714	$5,888	$6,066	$6,250	$6,439
Wyr	52,416	54,012	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712	64,620	64,620	64,620	66,576	66,576	68,568	68,568	68,568	70,656	72,792	75,000	77,268
Mw	2520	25.97	26.76	27.57	28.40	29.26	30.15	31.07	31.07	31.07	32.01	32.01	32.97	32.97	32.97	33,97	35.00	36.06	37.15
62	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5279	$5,439	$5,439	$5,439	$5,604	$5,604	$5,772	$5,772	$5,772	$5,946	$6,126	$6,313	$6,503
Pteptrttl by tx uw CwpanuMn Ofltoa
E(lw»n Tfl/2007
Pago 7 of 9
APPENDIX VI
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements
Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1,2007
p	A	B	C	D	E	F	Q	H	STEP I	J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP Steps	
																		R	S
$/yr	52,932	54,540	56,184	57,924	59,664	61,464	63,348	65,268	65,268	65,268	67,248	67,248	69,264	69,264	69,264	71,352	73.512	75,756	78,036
$/hr	25.45	26.22	27.01	27.85	28.68	29.55	30.46	31.38	31.38	31.38	32.33	32.33	33.30	33.30	33.30	34.30	35.34	36.42	37.52
83	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,492	$5,492	$5,658	$5,658	$5,829	$5,829	$5,829	$6,006	$6,188	$6,376	$6,569
$/yr	53,472	55,092	56,772	58,488	60,276	62,088	63,972	65,904	65,904	65,904	67,896	67,696	69,948	69,948	69,948	72,072	74,256	76,512	78,828
S/hr	25.71	26.49	27.29	28.12	28.98	29.85	30.76	31.68	31.68	31.68	32.64	32.64	33.63	33.63	33.63	34.65	35.70	36.78	37.90
84	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,548	$5,548	$5,714	$5,714	$5,888	$5,888	$5,888	$6,066	$6,250	$6,439	$6,635
$/yr	54,012	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712	64,620	66,576	66,576	66,576	68,568	68,568	70,656	70,656	70,656	72,792	75,000	77,268	79,620
$/hr	25.97	26.76	27.57	28.40	29.26	30.15	31.07	32.01	32.01	32.01	32.97	32.97	33.97	33.97	33.97	35.00	36.06	37.15	38.28
85	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,604	$5,604	$5,772	$5,772	$5,946	$5,946	$5,946	$6,126	$6,313	$6,503	$6,701
$/yr	54,540	56,184	57,924	59,664	61,464	63,348	65,268	67,248	67,248	67,248	69,264	69,264	71,352	71,352	71,352	73,512	75.756	78,036	80,412
S/hr	26.22	27.01	27.85	28.66	29.55	30.46	31.38	32.33	32.33	32.33	33.30	33.30	34.30	34,30	34.30	35.34	36.42	37.52	38.66
86	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,658	$5,658	$5,829	$5,829	$6,006	$6,006	$6,006	$6,188	$6,376	$6,569	$6,768
$/yr	55,092	56,772	58,488	60,276	62,088	63.972	65,904	67,896	67,896	67,896	69,948	69,948	72,072	72,072	72,072	74,256	76,512	78,828	81,216
$/hr	26.49	27.29	28.12	28.98	29.85	30.76	31.68	32.64	32.64	32.64	33.63	33.63	34.65	34.65	34.65	35.70	36.78	37.90	39.05
87	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,714	$5,714	$5,888	$5,888	$6,066	$6,066	$6,066	$6,250	$6,439	$6,635	$6,835
$/yr	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712	64,620	66,576	68,568	68,568	68,568	70,656	70,656	72,792	72,792	72,792	75,000	77,268	79,620	82,020
S/hr	26.76	27.57	28.40	29.26	30.15	31.07	32.01	32.97	32.97	32.97	33.97	33.97	35.00	35,00	35.00	36,06	37.15	38.28	39.43
88	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772	$5,772	$5,772	$5,946	$5,946	$6,126	$6,126	$6,126	$6,313	$6,503	$6,701	$6,904
$/yr	56,184	57,924	59,664	61.464	63,348	65,268	67.248	69,264	69,264	69,264	71,352	71,352	73,512	73,512	73,512	75,756	78,036	80,412	82,848
S/hr	27.01	27.85	28.68	29.55	30.46	31.38	32.33	33.30	33.30	33.30	34.30	34.30	35.34	35.34	35.34	36.42	37.52	38.66	39.83
89	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829	$5,829	$5,829	$6,006	$6,006	$6,188	$6,188	$6,188	$6,376	$6,569	$6,768	$6,973
$/yr	56,772	58,488	60,276	62,088	63,972	65,904	67,896	69,948	69,948	69,948	72,072	72,072	74,256	74,256	74,256	76,512	78,828	81,216	83,676
S/hr	27.29	28.12	28.98	29.85	30.76	31.68	32.64	33.63	33.63	33.63	34.65	34.65	35.70	35.70	35.70	36.78	37.90	39.05	40.23
90	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,888	$5,888	$5,888	$6,066	$6,066	$6,250	$6,250	$6,250	$6,439	$6,635	$6,835	$7,042
$/yr	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712	64,620	66,576	68,568	70,656	70,656	70,656	72,792	72.792	75,000	75,000	75,000	77,268	79,620	82,020	84,504
S/hr	27.57	28.40	29.26	30.15	31.07	32.01	32.97	33.97	33.97	33.97	35.00	35.00	36.06	36,06	36.06	37.15	38.28	39.43	40.63
91	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772	$5,946	$5,946	$5,946	$6,126	$6,126	$6,313	$6,313	$6,313	$6,503	$6,701	$6,904	$7,115
$/yr	57,924	59,664	61,464	63,348	65,268	67,248	69,264	71,352	71,352	71,352	73,512	73,512	75,756	75,756	75,756	78,036	80,412	82,848	85,380
S/hr	27.85	28.68	29.55	30.46	31.38	32.33	33.30	34.30	34.30	34.30	35.34	35.34	36.42	36.42	36.42	37.52	38.66	39.83	41.05
92	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006	$6,006	$6,006	$6,188	$6,188	$6,376	$6,376	$6,376	$6,569	$6,768	$6,973	$7,185
$/yr	58,488	60,276	62,088	63,972	65,904	67,896	69,948	72,072	72,072	72.072	74,256	74,256	76,512	76,512	76,512	78,828	81,216	83,676	86,220
$/hr	28.12	28.98	29.85	30.76	31.68	32.64	33.63	34.65	34.65	34.65	35.70	35.70	36.78	36,78	36 78	37.90	39.05	40.23	41.45
93	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,888	$6,066	$6,066	$6,066	$6,250	$6,250	$6,439	$6,439	$6,439	$6,635	$6,835	$7,042	$7,257
$/yr	59,076	60,852	62,712	64,620	66,576	68,568	70,656	72,792	72,792	72,792	75,000	75,000	77,268	77,268	77,268	79,620	82,020	84,504	87,084
S/hr	28.40	29.26	30.15	31.07	32.01	32.97	33.97	35.00	35.00	35.00	36.06	36.06	37.15	37.15	37,15	38.28	39.43	40.63	41.87
94	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772	$5,946	$6,126	$6,126	$6,126	$6,313	$6,313	$6,503	$6,503	$6,503	$6,701	$6,904	$7,115	$7,330
$/yr	59,664	61,464	63,348	65,268	67,248	69,264	71,352	73.512	73,512	73,512	75,756	75,756	78,036	78,036	78,036	80.412	82,848	85,380	87,960
S/hr	28.68	29.55	30.46	31.38	32.33	33.30	34.30	35.34	35.34	35.34	36.42	36.42	37.52	37.52	37.52	38,66	39.83	41.05	42.29
95	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006	$6,188	$6,188	$6,188	$6,376	$6,376	$6,569	$6,569	$6,569	$6,768	$6,973	$7,185	$7,403
$/yr	60,276	62,088	63,972	65,904	67,896	69,948	72,072	74,256	74,256	74,256	76,512	76.512	78,828	78,828	78,828	81,216	83,676	86,220	88.836
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page Bof 9
APPENDIX VI
University of Washington • Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1,2007
p	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< .... H	STEP 1	J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP Step*	
																		R	S
S/hr	28.98	29.85	30.76	31.68	32.64	33.63	34.65	35.70	35.70	35.70	36.78	36.78	37.90	37.90	37.90	39.05	40.23	41.45	42.71
96	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,888	$6,066	$6,250	$6,250	$6,250	$6,439	$6,439	$6,635	$6,635	$6,635	$6,835	$7,042	$7,257	$7,477
$/yr	60,852	62,712	64,620	66,576	68,568	70,656	72,792	75,000	75,000	75,000	77,268	77,268	79,620	79,620	79,620	82,020	84,504	87,084	89,724
$4ir	29.26	30.15	31.07	32.01	32.97	33.97	35.00	36.06	36.06	36.06	37.15	37.15	38.28	38.28	38.28	39.43	40.63	41.87	43.14
97	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772	$5,946	$6,126	$6,313	$6,313	$6,313	$6,503	$6,503	$6,701	$6,701	$6,701	$6,904	$7,115	$7,330	$7,551
$M	61,464	63,348	65,268	67,248	69,264	71,352	73,512	75,756	75,756	75,756	78,036	78,036	80,412	80,412	80,412	82,848	85,380	87,960	90,612
$/hr	29.55	30.46	31.38	32.33	33.30	34.30	35.34	36.42	36.42	36.42	37.52	37.52	38.66	38.66	38.66	39.83	41.05	42.29	43.56
98	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829	$6,006	$6,188	$6,376	$6,376	$6,376	$6,569	$6,569	$6,768	$6,768	$6,768	$6,973	$7,185	$7,403	$7,626
$/yr	62,088	63,972	65,904	67.896	69,948	72,072	74,256	76,512	76,512	76,512	78,828	78.828	81,216	81,216	81,216	83,676	86,220	88,836	91,512
$/hr	29.85	30.76	31.68	32.64	33.63	34.65	35.70	36.78	36.78	36.78	37.90	37.90	39.05	39.05	39.05	40.23	41.45	42.71	44.00
99	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714	$5,888	$6,086	$6,250	$6,439	$6,439	$6,439	$6,635	$6,635	$6,635	$6,635	$6,835	$7,042	$7,257	$7,477	$7,704
$/yr	62,712	64,620	66,576	68,568	70,656	72,792	75,000	77,268	77,268	77,268	79,620	79,620	82,020	82,020	82,020	84,504	87,084	89,724	92,448
$/hr	30.15	31.07	32.01	32.97	33.97	35.00	36.06	37.15	37.15	37.15	38.28	38.28	39.43	39.43	39.43	40.63	41.87	43.14	44.45
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 9 of 9
Prepared by HR Compensation
APPENDIX VII
August 9,2006
Market Adjustments Effective July 1, 2007
N'ercent flange Adjustment
Job Code Job Title
7490	ADMISSIONS SPECIALIST	5.0%
7613	BOOK PRODUCTION COORDINATOR	5.0%
7550	BROADCAST TECHNICIAN 1	5.0%
7551	BROADCAST TECHNICIAN 2	5.0%
7552	BROADCAST TECHNICIAN 3	5.0%
7021	BUILDING SERVICES COORDINATOR	5.0%
7378	COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 1	10.0%
7379	COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 2	10.0%
7380	COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN 3	10.0%
7374	COMPUTER MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN 1	10.0%
7375	COMPUTER MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN 3	10.0%
7388	COMPUTER MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN 4	10.0%
7377	COMPUTER MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN LEAD	10.0%
7945	COMPUTER SERVICES CONSULTANT 1	10.0%
7925	COMPUTER SUPPORT ANALYST 1	10.0%
7926	COMPUTER SUPPORT ANALYST 2	10.0%
7390	COMPUTER SUPPORT SPECIALIST 1	10.0%
7391	COMPUTER SUPPORT SPECIALIST 2	10.0%
7392	COMPUTER SUPPORT SPECIALIST LEAD	10.0%
7939	COMPUTER SUPPORT TECHNICIAN 1	10.0%
7940	COMPUTER SUPPORT TECHNICIAN 2	10.0%
7941	COMPUTER SUPPORT TECHNICIAN 3	10.0%
7019	CONFERENCE COORDINATOR 1	5.0%
7020	CONFERENCE COORDINATOR 2	5.0%
7485	CREDENTIALS EVALUATOR 1	5.0%
7486	CREDENTIALS EVALUATOR 2	5.0%
7487	CREDENTIALS EVALUATOR 3	■ 5.0%
7410	CURRICULUM ADVISOR	5.0%
7383	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR 1	5.0%
7384	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR 2	5.0%
7385	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR 3	5.0%
7386	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR LEAD	5.0%
7250	DEVELOPMENT/FUND RAISING EVENTS COORD	5.0%
7641	DRAFTING TECHNICIAN 2	20.0%
7642	DRAFTING TECHNICIAN 3	20.0%
7580	ELECTRONIC MEDIA PRODUCER 1	5.0%
7581	ELECTRONIC MEDIA PRODUCER 2	5.0%
SE/U Local 925 Markat Raia Mapa	xla
Page 1 of 3
91
Prepared by HR Compensation
APPENDIX VII
August 9, 2006
Job Code	Job Title	Percent Range Adjustment
7582	ELECTRONIC MEDIA PRODUCER LEAD	5.0%
7625	FACILITIES DRAFTING TECHNICIAN 2	20.0%
7683	FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEER	20.0%
7684	FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEER-LEAD	20.0%
7488	FOREIGN ADMISSIONS EVALUATOR	5.0%
7484	GRADUATION & ACADEMIC RECORDS SPEC LEAD	5.0%
7483	GRADUATION & ACADEMIC RECORDS SPECIALIST	5.0%
7514	GRAPHIC DESIGNER/) LLUSTRATOR	5.0%
7515	GRAPHIC DESIGNER/ILLUSTRATOR LEAD	5.0%
7512	GRAPHIC ILLUSTRATOR	5.0%
7043	HUMAN SUBJECTS REVIEW COORDINATOR	5.0%
7702	INVENTORY INSPECTOR 1	7.5%
7703	INVENTORY INSPECTOR 2	7.5%
7540	MEDIA ENGINEER A	5.0%
7562	MEDIA LABORATORY COORDINATOR	5.0%
7560	MEDIA SERVICES OPERATOR	5.0%
7520	MEDIA TECHNICIAN	5.0%
7523	MEDIA TECHNICIAN LEAD	5.0%
7521	MEDIA TECHNICIAN SENIOR	5.0%
8085	MEDICAL AIR LIFT COMMUNICATIONS SPEC	5.0%
7204	PLANNING ANALYST 1	20.0%
7205	PLANNING ANALYST 2	20.0%
7206	PLANNING ANALYST 3	20.0%
7270	POLICE DISPATCHER	5.0%
7271	POLICE DISPATCHER LD	5.0%
7202	PROCEDURES ANALYST 1	20.0%
7203	PROCEDURES ANALYST 2	20.0%
7255	PROGRAM ASSISTANT	5.0%
7256	PROGRAM COORDINATOR	5.0%
8241	QUALITY ASSURANCE COORDINATOR	5.0%
7236	RECORDER	5.0%
7047	RECORDS ANALYST 1	20.0%
7048	RECORDS ANALYST 2	20.0%
7049	RECORDS ANALYST 3	20.0%
7168	RECREATION COORDINATOR 2	2.5%
7769	SCIENTIFIC STORES ATTENDANT	7.5%
7243	SECRETARY	5.0%
7246	SECRETARY LEAD	5.0%
7244	SECRETARY SENIOR	5.0%
SEW Local KIS Market Reto Wtoge Mfwtownte.Nontoparvleo'y xli
Page 2 of 3
92
Prepared by HR Compensation
APPENDIX VII
August 9, 2006
Percent
Job	I bangs
Code	Job Title______________________________Adjustment
7176	SPORTS EQUIPMENT ATTENDANT 1	7.5%
7169	SPORTS EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN	7.5%
7234	STATISTICAL TYPIST	5.0%
7509	SUPERVISOR-MEDIA TECHNICAL SERVICES	5.0%
7911	SYSTEMS ANAL YST/PROG RAMMER 1	12.5%
7912	SYSTEMS ANALYST/PROG RAMMER 2	12.5%
7913	SYSTEMS ANALYST/PROGRAMMER 3	12.5%
7238	TECHNICAL SECRETARY	5.0%
7288	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANALYST 1	10.0%
7289	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANALYST 2	10.0%
7287	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANALYST 3	10.0%
7545	TVMDEO EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 1	5.0%
7546	TWVIDEO EQUIPMENT OPERATOR 2	5.0%
7547	TVMDEO EQUIPMENT OPERATOR LEAD	5.0%
7472	VETERANS ADVISOR 5.0%
SEW Local S25 Madwt Rato Mkga Atfua<nwnes.Nonaupanm¥ xla	Page 3 Of 3
93
APPENDIX VIII
LAYOFF SENIORITY UNITS
1.	Office of the President
2.	Applied Physics Laboratory
3.	Libraries
4.	Vice President for Minority Affairs
5.	College of Ocean and Fishery Sciences
6.	College of Engineering
7.	College of Architecture and Urban Planning
8.	School of Law
9.	Daniel Evans School of Public Affairs
10.	School of Social Work
11.	College of Forest Resources
12.	Business School
13.	College of Education except for Experimental Education Unit
14.	Experimental Education Unit
15.	Undergraduate Education
16.	School of Dentistry
17.	School of Nursing
18.	School of Pharmacy
19.	School of Public Health and Community Medicine
20.	Facilities Services (except Transportation Office)
21.	Transportation Office
22.	Arts and Sciences - Arts
23.	Arts and Sciences - Humanities
24.	Arts and Sciences - Social Sciences
25.	Arts and Sciences - Natural Sciences
26.	Arts and Sciences - Biology, Psychology, Speech and Hearing Earth and Space Sciences, Atmospheric Sciences
27.	Arts and Sciences - Dean's Office and Burke Museum
28.	Vice President of Student Affairs except Housing and Food Services
29.	Housing and Food Services
30.	Vtce President for University Relations
31.	Vice President for Development and Alumni Relations
32.	Office of the Executive Vice President
33.	Vice President for Human Resources
34.	Publications Services
35.	Purchasing and Stores
36.	Financial Accounting, Equipment Inventory Office
37.	Payables Administration, Travel
38.	Student Fiscal Services
39.	Grant & Contract Accounting, Payroll, Management Accounting & Analysis, Treasury, Controller's Office, Other Financial Management Units
94
Appendix VIII - Layoff Seniority Units (Cont’d)
40.	Special Employment Programs
41.	Academic Services; Center for Educational Resources
42.	Health Sciences Administration - Center on Human Development and Disability; Research Center in Oral Biology; Alcohol and Drug Abuse Institute
43.	Health Sciences Administration - Hall Health; Environmental Health and Safety
44.	Regional Primate Research Center
45.	All Other - Budget and Administration, Health Sciences and Medical Affairs, News and Community Relations, HSC Minority Student Program, Institute on Aging, IAIMS, Office of the Executive Director
46.	Office of the Vice President for Medical Affairs and Dean of School of Medicine administrative/program units including the Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs: Biomolecular Structure & Design Program, Molecular and Cell Biology Program, and Program for Neurobiology and Behavior
School of Medicine Departments to be broken down as follows:
47.	Anesthesiology
48.	Biochemistry
49.	Biological Structure, Bioengineering, Microbiology, Genome Sciences, Department of Neurology
50.	Clinical Research Center
51.	Comparative Medicine
52.	Family Medicine
53.	Immunology
54.	Laboratory Medicine
55.	Medical History and Ethics, Medical Education
56.	Medicine
57.	Neurological Surgery
58.	Obstetrics/Gynecology
59.	Ophthalmology
60.	Orthopedics
61.	Otolaryngology
62.	Pathology
63.	Pediatrics
64.	Pharmacology
65.	Physiology and Biophysics
66.	Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences
67.	Radiation Oncology, Radiology
68.	Rehabilitation Medicine
69.	Surgery
70.	Urology
95
Appendix VIII - Layoff Seniority Units (Cont’d)
Computing and Communications:
71.	Computing and Communications, Office of the VP, Business & Finance, TV & Video Technologies
72.	IT Infrastructure
73.	Information Systems
Harborview Medical Center
74.	Executive Director - Compliance, Community Relations, Finince, Development, Chief Operating Officer, Hiring authority for HMC and all other units not listed below
75.	Associate Administrator - Clinical Support Services
76.	Associate Administrator - Ambulatory Care and Allied Care Services
77.	Associate Administrator - Patient Care Service
78.	Associate Administrator, Finance
79.	Medical Director
UW Medical Center
80.	Executive Director, UWMC and all other units not listed belo v
81.	Associate Administrator - Chief Nursing Officer
82.	Associate Administrator - Planning, Marketing, Design & Ccinstruction
83.	Associate Administrator - Patient Financial Services and Ad miffing
84.	Associate Administrator - Chief Financial Officer
85.	Associate Administrator - Essential Services
86.	Assistant Administrator - Support Services
87.	Associate Administrator - Ambulatory Services
88.	Associate Administrator - Service Line
89.	Senior Operations Officers
90.	Associate Executive Director
91.	Medical Director’s Office
92.	Planning and Budgeting - Vice Provost for
93.	Provost, Office of the-all Provost’s units not delineated as separate units
94.	Educational Outreach - Vice President for
95.	Vice Provost for Research and Dean of Graduate School
96.	University of Washington, Bothell
97.	University of Washington, Tacoma
96
REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLO YEES
APPENDIX - IX
97
APPENDIX IX
REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
Definition. The term Regular Temporary Employee shall mea i an hourly paid employee doing bargaining unit work for more than 350 hours bt (less than 1,050 hours in any twelve (12) consecutive month period from an im vidual's original employment date or from January 1, 2004, whichever is la:er, exclusive of overtime worked.
Only the following language from Articles of the Agreement ipply to Regular Temporary Employees:
PREAMBLE AND PURPOSE
Includes Regular Temporary Employees for purposes of descrip ion of bargaining unit.
NONDISCRIMINATION/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
Nondiscrimination. Neither the Employer nor the Union shall dis criminate against any employee by reason of the following status: age, sex (except where age or sex is a bona fide occupational qualification), race or ethnic origin, color, creed, national origin, religion, disability, disabled or Vietnam era veteran, political affiliation, marital status, sexual orientation, or membership or nonmembership in a union.
Applicable Law. The Union and the Employer agree to abide by and support the applicable statutory and administrative laws pertaining to equsil opportunity and elimination of employment inequities. In order to promote this policy, the Employer will continue its affirmative action program for qualified women, ethnic and racial minorities, persons of disability, persons age fort/ (40) and over, disabled veterans, and Vietnam era veterans.
Sexual Harassment. No employee shall be subjected to discrimination in the form of sexual harassment, currently defined in the Universiy of Washington Handbook (Volume 4, Part 1, Chapter 2) as the use of one's a ithority or power, either explicitly or implicitly, to coerce another into unwanted seixual relations or to punish another for his or her refusal, or as the creation by a member of the University community of an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or educational environment, through verbal or physical conduct of; । sexual nature.
Complaints. A discrimination complaint may be filed win the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office and/or as a grievance in accordance with Article 4 of this Agreement. Employees may also file
98
discrimination complaints with appropriate federal or state agencies. The parties agree to encourage the filing of discrimination complaints through the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office.
UNION MEMBERSHIP, FAIR SHARE AND DUES DEDUCTION
Union Membership and Fair Share Fee. The Union shall fairly represent all employees covered by this Agreement. Therefore, as a condition of employment, Regular Temporary Employees shall, within sixty (60) days of having worked more than 350 hours from an individual’s original date of employment into an hourly paid bargaining unit classification, or from January 1, 2004, whichever is later, either execute a union membership and payroll deduction form or a fair share payroll deduction form and shall have the appropriate fee deducted from their payroll checks. Any employee who is a member of the Union may voluntarily withdraw their membership from the Union and pay a fair share fee by giving written notice to the Union within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement.
Employees who are determined by the Public Employment Relations Commission (PERC) to satisfy the religious exemption requirements of RCW 41.80.100 shall make payments to the Union equivalent to regular union dues and initiation fees for purposes within the program of the Union as designated by the employee that would be in harmony with his or her conscience.
Dues Deduction. Upon written authorization by an individual employee, the Employer shall provide for the semi-monthly payroll deductions of union dues and fair share fees which are uniformly applied to all members in those bargaining units in which the Union is the exclusive bargaining agent.
Indemnification. The Union and each employee authorizing the assignment of wages for the payment of Union dues hereby undertakes to indemnify and hold the University harmless from all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that may arise against the University for or on account of any deductions made from the wages of such employees.
Remittance of Dues. The Employer shall electronically transmit to the Union on the first bank working day after each payday all dues and fair share fees deducted for that pay period in those bargaining units for which the Union is the exclusive bargaining representative.
Listing of Employees. The Employer shall provide the Union with a semi-monthly listing of all employees with union dues or fair share fee deductions in the designated bargaining units and a monthly listing of all employees in the designated bargaining units who terminated their employment, or changed their employment status, classification or work location. The employer shall provide
99
this information electronically along with bargaining unit pay rates and home addresses.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Definition. A grievance, within the meaning of this Agreement, uhall be defined as any alleged misapplication or misinterpretation of the terms of his Agreement.
A grievant, within the meaning of this Agreement, shall be defined as an employee within a bargaining unit covered by this Agreement who alleges a grievance, the Union alleging a grievance, or the Employer under the terms and conditions of this Agreement. An individual grievant may not inveke Steps Three or Four of the grievance procedure without authorization from the Union. Grievances involving discipline shall be submitted to the level cif supervision or designee having authority to act.
Responsibilities. The Union shall prevail upon all employees in the bargaining units and especially stewards to make a diligent and serious attempt to resolve complaints at the lowest possible level. The Employer, likewi e, shall prevail upon its supervisory personnel to cooperate fully with the stevrards and other Union representatives in the prompt resolution of any grievances I hat may arise.
Employee Grievance Rights. Any employee who believes hc/she has been aggrieved may personally seek relief from that condition by filing a grievance, irrespective of any supervisor's opinion of the grievance’s validity. In the presentation of grievances the employees shall be safe from restraint, interference, discrimination, or reprisal.
Time Limitations. An extension of the time limitations as stipulated in the respective steps below may be obtained by mutual consent of the parties. Failure of the employee to comply with the time limitations withe ut a request for time extension shall constitute automatic withdrawal of foe grievance. Failure of foe Employer to comply with the time limitations without a riquest for time extension shall establish the right of the employee to proceed to the next step of the grievance procedure. For foe purposes of calculating time re quirements, foe first day shall be the day following foe day on which the employe ? was aware, or should have reasonably been aware of the issue giving rise tc the grievance. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be included in the calculation of days except that foe final day may not be on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday but will end at foe close of foe first working day following the Saturday, Sunday or holiday.
Pay Status - Meetings. Meetings and discussions on the grevance held in connection with this grievance procedure shall normally be field during the University's regular business hours, and no deduction in pay status shall be made for the grievant or steward for reasonable time spent in such meetings or
100
discussions during the employee's scheduled duty hours. Time off for employees and stewards shall be granted by supervision following a request, but in consideration of job responsibilities, if the requested time off cannot be granted, the parties shall arrange for time off at the earliest possible time thereafter.
Grievance Withdrawal. A grievance may be withdrawn in writing at any time by mutual agreement of both parties and if withdrawn shall not be resubmitted.
Employee Representation. The Union as exclusive representative of bargaining unit employees is the responsible representative of said employees in grievance matters.
The parties agree that decisions rendered under the prior HEPB process shall not be determinative or precedential for any issue raised under the grievance procedure.
Steps of the Grievance Procedure. All grievances shall be processed only through Step 2, except grievances alleging inaccurate or untimely payment of hourly wages, or failure by the Employer to follow the terms of Article 30 below, which may be processed through Step 4. As long as the hourly rate paid is not lower than the lowest step in the salary range for a position's assigned classification, and the Employer has followed the terms of Article 30 below, the hourly rate paid is not subject to the grievance procedure.
Step One: Presentation. Within thirty (30) calendar days of the occurrence of a situation, condition, or action which caused the grievance, the employee(s) affected and/or the steward or Union representative shall present the grievance to the employee's immediate supervisor for resolution. Presentation of the grievance shall include a short written description of the subject of the grievance and the contract Articles allegedly violated. If the grievance is directed against the employee's immediate supervisor, the grievance may be presented to the next higher level of supervision. The parties shall attempt to meet to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days. The supervisor will respond within five (5) calendar days of the meeting.
Step Two: If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in Step One, and the employee wishes to pursue the matter further, said grievance shall be put into writing on the authorized grievance form and referred to the department head or designee or to the next appropriate level of management and the Office of Labor Relations within fifteen (15) calendar days after the decision from Step One. The date of alleged occurrence of the grievance shall be specified. The parties shall attempt to meet to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days following the date of written submittal. At this step the Union agrees to cite all known sections of the Agreement which allegedly have been violated and to provide a copy to the Human Resources Office and Office of Labor Relations. The grievant may be represented by a steward and union staff representative.
101
The University will be represented by the appropriate management official, or designee, a representative from the Office of Labor Relation; and a human resources consultant, if desired by the University. The Universily will respond in writing within ten (10) calendar days.
Step Three: Grievance Mediation. If a satisfactory settlement s not reached at Step Two, the grievant with authorization from the Union may s ubmit the written grievance to the Office of Labor Relations requesting grievance mediation within fifteen (15) calendar days.
Upon mutual agreement, the Employer and the Union shall request, within ten (10) calendar days, grievance mediation services of the Public Employment Relations Commission (PERC). If those services are unavailable on a timely basis, the parties shall immediately request a list of grievance mediators from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS). The cost of the mediation shall be borne equally by both parties.
Step Four: Arbitration. If a satisfactory settlement is not reache d at Step Two or Step Three, either of the signatory parties to this Agreement may submit the grievance to binding arbitration. Such submittal must be made within fifteen (15) calendar days following the conclusion of Step Two or Step Three. Within sixty (60) calendar days of the execution of the Agreement, the partus agree to meet to establish a permanent panel of three (3) - five (5) artitrators. These arbitrators shall be assigned cases by the parties on a rotating basis. If the arbitrator is not available to hear the case within sixty (60) cak ndar days of the decision by either party to go to arbitration, the parties will contact the next arbitrator in the rotation. If no arbitrator can hear the case within sixty (60) calendar days, the case will be assigned to the arbitrator who can hear the case on the earliest date. The appointment to the panel will be for Ihe first eighteen (18) months of the Agreement at which time either party may decide not to continue the appointment. If an individual arbitrator decides t ) remove his/her name from the panel or if one or more members of the panel sure not continued by either party, the parties will meet to decide whether to substilute an additional name(s).
Until the panel is implemented, the parties will select an arbitrator using the procedure in the November 16, 1999-November 15, 2002 coot act. The parties agree that the arbitrator shall have no power to render a decision that adds to, subtracts from, alters or modifies in any way the terms and conditions of the Agreement. The parties further agree that the decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon all parties. The cost of the arbitratio i shall be borne equally by the parties and each party shall bear the full cost of p resenting its own case. The arbitrator's decision shall be made in writing and the arbitrator shall be encouraged to render the decision within thirty (30) calendar da/s of the close of the arbitration.
102
In cases where a grievance is moved to arbitration, and the parties did not avail themselves of Step Three: Grievance Mediation, the moving party shall have the unilateral right to demand a pre-arbitration settlement conference. These conferences shall not delay the arbitration process, and may be held with or without the presence of the arbitrator, at the option of the moving party. In the event that an arbitrator is present, the cost of the arbitrator's participation shall be borne equally by the parties.
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Hours of work for Regular Temporary Employees shall be established by the employing official. Work assigned in excess of forty (40) hours in a seven (7) day work week constitutes overtime. Overtime hours will be compensated at a rate of one-and-one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s straight time hourly rate.
EMPLOYMENT
Policy. It is the policy of the University to encourage job advancement It is the responsibility of each employee seeking employment to provide the employer with complete information regarding the employee's skills and qualifications relative to the position sought. The Employer will make the application process, necessary submittals and the essential skills of the vacant position clear to prospective applicants.
Notice that applications are being accepted for bargaining unit positions will be published by the Employer and will be made available in places intended to reach bargaining unit employees fer a minimum of seven (7) days prior to the closing of the application period. The University may limit the scope of the posting area if applications only from within the posting area are accepted. Active Regular Temporary Employees may apply for depariment/unit specific openings if they have worked in the department/unit within the past calendar year.
The Employer will determine if applicants possess the essentia) skills required of the position. Essential skills are the minimum qualifications listed in the job description for the classification and any specific position requirements. The Employer will refer all bargaining unit applicants (including Regular Temporary Employees) possessing the essential skills prior to referring any non-bargaining unit applicants. In accordance with applicable law, affirmative action goals will be considered when filling vacancies.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Regular Temporary Employees are subject to all terms of the Agreement at such time as a Regular Temporary Employee is appointed to a monthly paid
103
bargaining unit position. This includes the requirement to serve a probationary period.
A Regular Temporary Employee who is hired into the same job v/ithout a break in service, in the same unit through open recruitment will ha re their Regular Temporary hours of service apply toward their probationary period for that position up to a maximum of three (3) months of the six (6) mri nth probationary period.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Policies. It is the Employer's intent to make reasonable and pro )er provisions for the maintenance of appropriate standards of health and safety within the workplace. The Employer shall comply with applicable Federal and State health and safety legislation and regulations and has designated the University's Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Department to advise and monitor compliance with such standards.
When it is established through medical documentation that a disabling condition or physical limitation prohibits continued performance of the emj loyee's assigned duties, the employer will attempt to assist the employee through reassignment, transfer, or reconfiguration of job duties.
Employees who believe that working conditions present a hazs rd to their health should first alert their supervisor. All employees are encou aged to contact Environmental Health and Safety to report hazardous condttionn If a supervisor or Environmental Health and Safety declares a work site to b is hazardous and unfit for work, affected employees may be assigned to alternative work sites until the hazardous condition is rectified. If assignment to an altern ative work site is not possible and the supervisor decides to send the employees home, those employees sent home will receive their regular pay fdr all time the employee is scheduled to work on the day of the incident. For all subsequent days the employee(s) may use accrued leave as appropriate.
Health Examinations. The Employer shall provide at no cost :o the employee, such medical tests or health examinations as may be required as a condition of employment.
Safety. All work shall be performed in conformity with applicable safety standards. Employees are encouraged to immediately report an y unsafe working conditions to their supervisor. No employee shall be disciplined for reporting any such condition nor be required to work or to operate equipment '/hen he/she has reasonable grounds to believe such action would result in immediate danger to life or safety until the condition has been reviewed by a Union Steward and a higher level of supervision. If the matter is not resolved satisfactorily, the
104
supervisor or employee may request a decision from the University's Department of Environmental Health and Safety or the Department of Labor and Industries.
Safety Committees. Bargaining unit employees shall be appropriately represented on any organizational health and safety committees for areas in which they are employed, as detailed in Administrative Policy Statements 10.11. Any department or unit committee also dealing with health and safety issues in work areas shall appropriately involve bargaining unit employees. It shall also be appropriate for either party to raise health and safety concerns at the Joint Union/Management Committee.
Ergonomics. The Employer shall maintain a separate section in the Administrative Policy Statements that reference the ergonomic requirements of WAC 296-62-051. Further ergonomic guidelines shall be referenced on the Environmental Health and Safety department website www.ehs.washington.edu.
Workplace Review. The parties recognize that there are several elements in a work site which may affect individual health, comfort and productivity. The Employer shall conduct routine hazard assessments of any worksite that may contain health hazards as required by WAC. The Employer shall provide awareness education to help reduce identified hazards. Employees may also request a workplace review by the employing department and employees shall be given the results of the review.
RECORDS
Bargaining Unit. A current list of names, classifications, and departments of all bargaining unit employees will be provided annually to the Union at cost.
Personnel File. To the extent personnel records are kept for Regular Temporary Employees, upon written request by an employee to their area Human Resources Office (official personnel file) or department manager (departmental file), the employee or employee's representative shall have access to the employee's official or departmental personnel file for review. Upon the employee's request, the employee may receive copies of any materials in the file (requests for reasonable numbers of copies will be provided at no cost to the employee; employees may be charged a fee for requests for large numbers of copies). Prior to such review the Director or designee may remove any letters of reference which were obtained through assurances of confidentiality to a third party. Such letters shall only be used for the purposes of hiring and/or promotional application.
Employees shall be provided a copy of all adverse material placed in the official file at the time the material is included in the file.
105
(a)	Information shall be retained as long as it has a reasonable bearing on the employee's job performance or upon the efficien: and effective management of the institution.
Adverse material or information related to employee misconduct or alleged misconduct which is determined to be false and all such information in situations where the employee has been fully exonerate :l of wrong doing shall be promptly destroyed.
(b)	Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, an institution may retain information relating to employee misconduct or alleged misconduct, if:
(1)	The employee requests that the information be retained; or
(2)	The information is related to pending legal action or legal actions may reasonable be expected to result.
The employee shall have the right to have placed in his/hur own personnel file a statement of rebuttal or correction of information co itained in the file within a reasonable period of time after the employee bee omes aware that the information has been placed in the file.
Request for Information. To the extent such records are hept for Regular Temporary Employees, the Employer shall make available to the Union, upon written request, records and reports regarding personnel issue s, such as home addresses, employment date and reclassification requests, c oncerning those classifications in the bargaining units, provided that this shal not require the Employer to disclose any records not subject to disclosure under the Public Disclosure Act of the State of Washington or to maintain or assemble any data which it would not otherwise assemble for its own use. Information shall be provided electronically where feasible.
TRAVEL PAY AND WORK TIME
General. Any employee required to travel to a place of work c ther than his/her regular official duty station shall be reimbursed for travel cc;ts if eligible, in accordance with University of Washington Administrative Pc licy Statements, Section 70.
FACILITIES
Meeting Facilities. The Union shall be permitted to use the Employer’s facilities for meetings provided advance notice is given to the Employer, appropriate space is available on the date requested, and meetings are he Id in accordance with the Employer's policy on this subject.
106
Bulletin Boards.
(a)	Space shall be made available to the Union on bulletin boards in those areas where bargaining unit members work or frequent, for the posting of notices and information pertaining to official business of the Union. Such posted material is to be signed by a Union representative.
(b)	If it is established that adequate space is not available at a convenient location, the Union may provide for and have installed a bulletin board at its own expense, provided the size and location of said bulletin board shall be mutually agreeable to the Union representative and the Employer.
Employee Facilities.
(a)	Restrooms and attendant facilities shall be provided as required by the State of Washington Department of Labor and industries. Dressing rooms and/or lockers shall be provided to employees in those classifications where a change of clothing is required by the Employer.
(b)	The adequacy of employee facilities, including sanitary supply dispensers for female employees, shall be a proper subject for discussion by the Joint Union-Management Committee.
JOINT UNION MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Committee Purpose and Membership. A Joint Union-Management Committee Is established to provide a forum for communications between the two (2) parties and to deal with matters of general Union/Employer concern. The committee’s function will be limited to an advisory capacity and shall not include any decisionmaking or collective bargaining authority.
Committee membership shall consist of three (3) bargaining unit employees and a Union staff representative and four (4) Employer representatives to include the Executive Director for Labor Relations or designee.
The Employer will discuss with representatives of the Union significant changes affecting institutional conditions of employment generally affecting bargaining unit employees sufficiently in advance of the targeted implementation date of said changes so that reasonable alternative proposals can be adequately considered by the Joint Union-Management Committee. Diversity, child care and tuition exemption shall be considered appropriate subjects for the Joint Union-Management Committee.
Meetings. Committee meetings may be requested by an authorized representative of either party. Requests for a quarterly meeting shall be
107
honored; however, once convened, the committee may men more or less frequently as mutually agreed between the parties.
At least one (1) week's notice shall be given to members of i ny agreed upon meeting and the agenda. Committee meetings shall normally be held during University business hours and at a mutually agreeable time and date. Employee members shall experience no loss in salary for meeting participation; however, meeting times are not construed as work time and no overtime shall be claimed or paid for meetings attended outside the employee members' regular working hours.
Limitations. Committee meeting topics shall be limited to subjec1 s of group rather than individual concern, and the committee shall not discuss grievances properly processed under Article 4 of the Agreement. Further, it is not intended that this Article obligate in any way either party to negotiate on personnel matters covered in this Agreement or to alter, limit, restrict, or reduce prerogatives of either party otherwise provided in this Agreement.
Use of Temporary Employees. Issues concerning the us e of temporary employees who work beyond 1,050 hours from the employee's original University of Washington temporary employment date, shall be an appropriate subject for discussion in the Joint Union Management Committee meetirg. Such issues may include, but will not be limited to, the continuous and ongoing use of temporary employees as well as the possibility of alternate employment opportunities.
CONTRACT DISTRIBUTION
The University and the Union shall share the cost of printing tt e Agreement for present and new employees in the bargaining units.
Distribution.
(a)	The employer shall include a copy of the Agn cement at each Reference Station and shall provide a copy to new employees in the bargaining unit.
(b)	The Union shall provide a copy of the Agreement to present employees in the bargaining units. The Employer shall allow distribution through campus mail.
New Employees
(a)	The Employer shall provide to the Union, at least monthly, a list of new employees in the bargaining units, including the employee's name, classification, department, and mail stop.
108
(b)	The Employer will distribute to each new employee in the bargaining units, with a copy of this Agreement, a letter from the Union. Such letter will be provided to the Employer by the Union and the contents of the letter shall be mutually agreeable.
(c)	A bargaining unit member designated by the Union shall be granted paid release time to attend new employee orientation and/or new employee coffee hours scheduled by the University. Such release time will be subject to the operational needs of the department.
COMPENSATION
Salary schedules for Regular Temporary Employees shall be incorporated into this Agreement as Appendices IV, V, and VI.
If a bargaining unit Regular Temporary Employee leaves an appointment and is later reemployed by the same department/unit in the same or substantially similar appointment, the employee will be paid an hourly rate not less than their previous wage in the department/unit.
All positions filled by Regular Temporary Employees shall continue to receive the premiums and differentials they received prior to July 1, 2005, including any increases in the amounts of those premiums and differentials as provided for in this Agreement.
NO STRIKE/LOCKOUT
The Employer and the Union acknowledge that this Agreement provides, through the grievance procedure and through other administrative remedies, for an orderly settlement of grievances or disputes which may arise between the parties. Accordingly, the parties agree that the public interest requires the uninterrupted performance of all University services and to this end pledge to prevent or eliminate any conduct contrary to that objective. Therefore, during the life of the Agreement the Employer shall not lockout any of the employees as a result of a labor dispute or grievance or disputes on personnel matters nor shall the Union condone or authorize a work stoppage, work slowdown, or any other curtailment of work in the bargaining units.
Should the employees engage in any unauthorized concerted action, a Joint Union/Management Committee shall immediately convene and shall continue to meet until the dispute is settled, and the employees involved shall immediately return to work and continue working. Any employee who refuses to perform his/her work may be subject to disciplinary action.
109
There will be no strike or lockout regarding any matters pertaining to the contents of this Agreement.
Any action of the Employer in closing the University during a c eneral strike, riot, or civil disturbance for the protection of the institution, its. property, or its employees shall not be deemed a lockout.
Any action of an employee in refusing to cross, for his/her own personal safety, a picket line at the Employer's premises in case of an officially declared strike by some other employee organization or union representing employees working for the Employer shall not constitute a violation of this clause <1 the Agreement, provided, however, that such a decision shall be made freely by the employee without coercion by either the Employer or the Union and provided further that nothing herein shall preclude the Employer from continuing to operate the University with or without temporary replacement personnel.
SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT AND SAVINGS CLAUSf i
Should any part hereof or any provision herein containec be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part of provision of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remainir g portions hereof; provided, however, upon such invalidation the parties agree immediately to meet and negotiate such parts or provisions affected. The remaining parts or provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
DURATION
This Agreement shall become effective July 1, 2007 and rema n in force through June 30, 2009. Automatic renewal shall extend the terms of 1 his Agreement fdr one year at a time, unless either party serves the other with wri Iten notice at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the anniversary date of its intent to negotiate a new Agreement. Should notice be served, bargaining shall begin within thirty (30) calendar days following the date of the notice for the purf ose of negotiating a new Agreement.
no
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER A- UNIVERSITY BUDGET COMMITTEE
July 1,2007
Ms, Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
It is my understanding that during contract negotiations, the Un on has expressed an interest in having access to the University Budget Committee (UBC) in order to provide input on budget decisions affecting bargaining unit rr embers.
The Executive Vice President has been requested by the Unive isity Budget Committee to provide summary information to a number of groups and organizations having an interest in budget decisions, which may affect staff employees. In this regard, the Executive Vice President has in the past met with your Union's Policy Board, and it would be my intent to do so in the future at your request.
Further, in the event the University is required by external mandate to reduce its budget during the term of a biennium, this office will provide the Union with a copy of any budget reduction plan developed by the UBC and solicit your comments regarding the plan prior to its submission to the Regents for their review and action.
Executive Vice Presid ent
University of Washing on
du
Seattle, Washington 98195
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER 8 - KRONOS
July 1, 2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925
3647 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
The University has the right to implement the “Kronos" timekeeping system sometime during the life of the Agreement. The University will notify the Union at least 60 days in advance and agrees to consult with the Union over implementation issues.
Sincerely,
vvvhjuh «nng
Executive Vice President
University of Washing' jh
112
Seattle, Washington 98195
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER C - REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLO YEES
July 1,2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 96103
Dear Ms. Cook:
In addition to the language contained in Appendix IX - Regular Temporary Employees, the parties agree to the following:
After initial inclusion in a Local 925 bargaining unit, an employee will continue to be included in the bargaining unit in subsequent years if the 3$0 hour threshold was met in the previous year.
The University will give a Union-provided “Welcome Letter" and a Union-provided payroll deduction form to each member of the bargaining unit ji s they cross the 350-hour threshold.
The Union and the University agree that an employee signature on a Union Payroll Deduction form is valid from year to year as long as a regular temporary employee remains in the bargaining unit.
Weldon Ihrig
Executive Vice President
University of Washington
Kim Cook
President SEIU Local 925
113
Seattle, Washington 98195
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER D - REGULAR TEMPORARY HARBOFtVIEW MEDICAL CENTER INTERPRETERS
July 1,2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone Way N. Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
The University will call hourly medical interpreters for in-pernn interpretation before calling an outside agency for in-person interpretation.
Sincerely,
Weldon Ihrig _ Executive Vice President
114
Seattle, Washington 98195
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER E - REPRESENTATION
July 1,2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President
SEIU Local 925
3747 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
The University agrees not to oppose the Union’s effort to add lo the bargaining unit employees working in the non-healthcare titles outlined by i s proposal to the University on May 25, 2006. The University will reply to Public Employment Relations Commission (PERC) requests for information within PERC’s prescribed timeline. The University will also agree to any PERC hearing date within four (4) weeks of the filing of any petition. The parties ce n mutually agree to the extension of these deadlines.
Sincerely,
Weldon Ihrig	l!"
Executive Vice President University of Washingto ri
115
Seattle, Washington 98195
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER F - PROFESSIONAL STAFF EXEMPT IONS
July 1,2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President
SEIU Local 925
3647 Stone WayN.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
The Union agrees to an expedited review of any future proposals, for professional staff exemptions as follows:
1.	The University will make reallocations based on application of the professional staff exemption criteria set forth in ROW 41.06.070 (including any permanent and substantive change in the duties, responsibilities, or qualifications of the position).
2.	The Union and the University agree to a procedure 1 lat includes the provision of information by the University and a meeting 1 vith the Union to discuss and resolve issues regarding the transfer of work from the bargaining unit within four (4) weeks of the University’s initial notice to the union for a proposed professional staff exemption.
3.	All negotiations regarding transfer of any work from the bargaining unit shall be concluded by the meeting described above, un ejss both parties agree to an extension.
4.	Disputes regarding professional staff exemptions shall be resolved by the classification review hearing officer in Article 14 of the collective bargaining agreement. The Hearing Officer shall make his/her decision based on the criteria outlined in paragraph one (1) above. If the employee appeals the exemption determination in any other forum the Union cannot pursue the determination through the pre cess outlined in Article 14.
The Union agrees to withdraw all current challenges to the University’s proposed professional staff exemptions dated July 1,2005 to August 16, 21)06.
116
Seattle, Washington 98195
Joint Union Management Committee - The University and SEIU Local 925 have a shared interest in meeting to discuss the current framework in which University staff are reallocated from the bargaining unit to professional staff positions.
During the terms of the Agreement, the parties will work in good faith to mutually agree upon a framework that is more consistent with the interests of both parties.
Unless mutually agreed to by the parties these provisions will expire with the expiration of the contract on June 30, 2009.
Weldon Ihrig .	*
Executive Vice President University of Washington

Kim Cook President SEIU Local 925
117
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER G - HEALTH CARE SETTLEMEfc T
July 1,2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
As a full and complete settlement of the grievance over health cs h e funding rates and employee contributions for fiscal years 2006 and 2007, emp oyees shall receive a one-time payment of seven hundred and fifty-six dollar s ($756.00) to be dispersed on July 25,2007 only to employees who are:
a.	Insurance eligible for the month of June, 2007, and
b.	Covered by a 2007 - 2009 Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated pursuant to RCW 41.80.
Sincerely,
Executive Vice President
University of Washington
118
Seattle, Washington 98195