I
IT >I-SEIU Local 925 Univers y-wicle Supervisory 7/1/07 — 6/30/09
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WAS! ’NGTON
AND SEIU LOCAL 925 (University-wide Supervisory Bargaining Unit)
UW-SEIU Local 925
Universiiy-wide Supervisory 7/1/07-6/30/09
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASH' NGTON
AND
SEIU LOCAL 925
(University-wide Supervisory Bargaining Unit)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1 -	PREAMBLE AND PURPOSE	
ARTICLE? -	NONDISCRIMINATION/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION	 2.1	Nondiscrimination 2.2	Affirmative Action 2.3	Sexual Harassment 2.4	Complaints
ARTICLES -	UNION MEMBERSHIP, FAIR SHARE AND DUES DEDUCTION	 3.1	Union Membership and Fair Share Fee 3.2	Dues Deduction 3.3	Indemnification 3.4	Remittance of Dues 3.5	Listing of Employees
ARTICLE 4 -	GRIE VANCE PROCEDURE		 4.1	Definition 4.2	Responsibilities 4.3	Employee Grievance Rights 4.4	Time Limitations 4.5	Pay Status - Meetings 4.6	Grievance Withdrawal 4.7	Employee Representation 4.8	Prior HEPB Process 4.9	Steps of the Grievance Procedure
ARTICLES -	STEWARDS	 5.1	Recognition 5.2	Steward Release Time 5.3	Designation of Stewards and Areas of Jurisdi ;tion 5.4	Stewards in Traiing
ARTICLE 6 -	STEWARD TRAINING	 6.1	Release Time for Training 6.2	Notice of Training 6.3	Approval of Release Time
ARTICLE 7 -	UNION BUSINESS ACTIVITIES	
ARTICLES -	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	 8.1	General 8.2	Definitions 8.3	Work Day/Meal Period 8.4	Rest Breaks 8.5	Work Period Designations/Scheduled Work F .'iiods 8.6	Overtime 8.7	Overtime Policies
PAGE
1 1-2
2-3
3-6
7
8
8 8-15
PAGE
8.8 Shift Assignment Notification		
ARTICLE 9 -	8.9	Callback Pay 8.10	Off Duty Work 8.11	Standby Pay 8.12	Shift Differential 8.13	Language Pay 8.14	Alternative/Flexible Schedules 8.15	Excepted Work Period Positions 8.16	Telework 8.17	Staffing Concerns 8.13	Weekend Pay VACATION LEAVE				15-17
ARTICLE 10 -	9.1	Policy 9.2	Accrual 9	3 Scheduling 9.4	Vacation Leave Accumulation 9.5	Vacation Leave Cash Payment SICK LEAVE/BEREAVEMENT LEAVE				17-20
ARTICLE 11 -	10.1	Sick Leave 10.2	Sick Leave Cash Out 10.3	Bereavement Leave 10.4	Definitions 10.5	Reasonable Accommodation 10.6	Shared Leave 10.7	Choice of Leave HOLIDAYS				20-21
ARTICLE 12 -	11.1	Holidays 11.2	Holiday Premium Pay LEAVES OF ABSENCE		21-25
12.1	Leave Types
12.2	Leave Without Pay
12.3	Returning Employee Rights
12.4	Family Medical Leave
12.5	Educational Leave
12.6	Leave Due to Child Care Emergencies
12.7	Military Leave
12.8	Civil Duty Leave
12.9	Work-Related Injury Leave
12.10	Inclement Weather and Suspended Operatii in ARTICLE 13- CLASSIFICATIONS.................................................. 25-26
13.1	Classification System Changes
13.2	Notification to Union
13.	3 Union Proposal of New Classification
13.4	Notification of Proposed Reclassifications
PAGE
ARTICLE 14 -	RECLASSIFICATION				26-28
ARTICLE 15-	14.1	Policy 14.2	Position Review Process 14.3	Position Review Appeal Process TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT AND TEMPORARY APPOINTMENT	 15.1	To a Higher Position 15.2	Other Assignments 15.3	Temporary Appointment 15.4	Fixed Duration Appointments	28-29
ARTICLE 16-	PROBATIONARY PERIOD	 16.1 Definition 16.2 Probationary Period Rejection	29-30
ARTICLE 17 -	SENIORITY, LAYOFF, REHIRE	 17.1	Seniority 17.2	Layoff and Rehire 17.3	Affirmative Action Goals	30-34
ARTICLE 18-	CORRECTIVE ACTION/DISMISSAL	 18.1	General 18.2	Corrective Action/Dismissal Process 18.3	Grievability/Arbitrability 18.4	Representation	34-35
ARTICLE 19-	EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION	 19.1	Performance Evaluations 19.2	Evaluation Forms 19.3	Employee Evaluation Information 19.4	Evaluation Process 19.5	Evaluator Training 19.6	Grievability	35-37
ARTICLE 20 -	EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT	 20.1	Policy 20.2	Annual List of Job Classifications 20.3	Training and Development Task Teams 20.4	Information 20.5	Training and Development Programs 20.6	Release Time 20.7	Completion of Training Programs 20.8	Tuition Payment and Travel Cost Reimbursen ent 20.9	Training - Layoff	37-38
ARTICLE 21 -	TUITION EXEMPTION PROGRAM	 21.1 General 21.2 Release Time and Fees	38-39
PAGE
ARTICLE 22- PROMOTION SARANS FERS		39-41
22.1	Policy 22.2	Definitions 22.3	Application for Vacant Bargaining Unit Positi ons 22.4	Essential Skills 22.5	Review 22.6	Movement Between Positions 22.7	Release Time ARTICLE 23- HEALTH AND SAFETY		41-42
23.1 Policies 23.2	Health Examinations 23.3	Safety 23.4	Safety Committees 23.5	Ergonomics 23,6 Workplace Review ARTICLE 24- RECORDS			43-44
24.1	Vacation/Sick Leave 24.2	Bargaining Unit 24.3	Personnel File 24.4	Request for Information ARTICLE 25 - TRAVEL PAY AND WORK TIME		44
25.1 General 25.2 Work Time and Compensation ARTICLE 26- POLICIES		44-46
26.1	ContractingOut 26.2	Union Access 26.3	Assignment of Additional Duties 26.4	Personal Services 26.5	Uniforms Requirement 26.6	Legislative Briefings 26.7	Child Care 26.8	Resignation ARTICLE 27- FACILITIES		46
27.1	Meeting Facilities 27.2	Bulletin Boards 27.3	Employee Facilities ARTICLE 28 - JOINT UNION-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE		47
28.1 Committee Purpose and Membership 28.2 Meetings 28.3 Limitations ARTICLE 29 - CONTRACT DISTRIBUTION		48
29.1 Cost of Printing
29.2 Distribution
29.3 New Employees
PAGE
ARTICLE 30 - COMPENSATION......................... 48-51
30.1	Promotion or Reclassification to Higher Salai Range
30.2	Reclassification to a Position in Lower Salary Range
30.3	Salary Schedules
30.4	Increment Increase
30.5	Comparable Worth
30.6	Health Benefits
30.7	Parking/U-Pass
30.8	Career Enhancement/Growth Program
30.9	Conversion of CEGP Steps
30.10	Cost of Living Adjustment
30.11	Market Rate Wage Adjustment ARTICLE 31 - NO STRIKE/LOCKOUT........................... 51-52
ARTICLE 32-	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES ..... 52
ARTICLE 33	- SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT
AND SAVING CLAUSE............................ 52-53
ARTICLE 34-	DURATION.................................... 53
SIGNATORIES.............................................. 54-55
APPENDIX I	JOB CLASSIFICATIONS............................ 56-57
APPENDIX II	OVERTIME EXEMPT JOB CLASSES.................. 58
APPENDIX III	DIFFERENTIALS - HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONAL
TECHNICAL CLASSES............................ 59
APPENDIX IV	PAY TABLE - B4................................ 60-70
APPENDIX V	PAY TABLE - B7.............................. 71-79
APPENDIXVI	MARKET RATE WAGE ADJUSTMENT................. 90
APPENDIX VII	LAY OFF UNITS.............................. 81-83
APPENDIX Vill	REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES................ 34-97
SIDE LETTER A - UNIVERSITY BUDGET COMMITTEE.............. 98
SIDE LETTER B - KRONOS................................... 99
SIDE LETTER C - REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES.............. 100
SIDE LETTER D - REPRESENTATION........................... 101
SIDE LETTER E - PROFESSIONAL STAFF EXEMPTIONS............ 102-103
SIDE LETTER F - HEALTH CARE SETTLEMENT................... 104
ARTICLE 1	- PREAMBLE AND PURPOSE
This Agreement is made by and between the Board of Regent ■ of the University of Washington, hereinafter referred to as the Employer, and the Service Employees International Union, Local 925, hereinafter referred i as the Union.
The Employer is the Board of Regents of the University of ashington acting through its agents, administrators, and supervisors as determined by the Board of Regents.
Provisions of this Agreement apply to those regular monthly ei r ployees who are employed at the University of Washington in classification:;, included in the University-wide Supervisory Bargaining Unit (see Append* I). Regular temporary employees shall be covered per Appendix VIII.
The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth certain terms and conditions of employment and to promote orderly and peaceful labor relations between the parties. The parties agree that it has been and will be thuir mutual aim to promote systematic and effective employee-management cor aeration; fair and reasonable working conditions; effective methods for the proi r ot adjustment of differences, misunderstandings, and disputes; and dignified ar.: fair treatment of employees in the implementation of all policies and procedures
ARTICLE 2	- NONDISCRIMINATION/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
2.1	Nondiscrimination. Neither the Employer nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee by reason of the following status age, sex (except where age or sex is a bona fide occupational qualificatif n), race or ethnic origin, color, creed, national origin, religion, disability, dii abled or Vietnam era veteran, political affiliation, marital status, sexual orientation, or membership or nonmembership in a union.
2.2	Affirmative Action.
(a)	Policies. In conjunction with Federal and State Executive Orders, the Employer and the Union agree on the need for an affirmative action approach to correct and review any inequities in the employment process. The Employer shall have and implement an affirmative action plan which requires the Employer to make special efforts to recruit, employ, retain, train, promote, encourage ca eer development, and transfer qualified members of groups formerly excluded, even if that exclusion cannot be traced to particular discriminatory actions on the part of the Employer, and to develop, implement, and monitor affirmative action goals and timetables for hiring and/or promoting
members of protected groups into job classes/categories where it has been determined that under-utilization exists.
(b)	Applicable Law. The Union and the Employer agree to abide by and support the applicable statutory and administrative laws pertaining to equal opportunity and elimination of employment inequities. In order to promote this policy, the Employer will continue its affirmative action program for qualified women, ethnic and racial minorities, persons of disability, persons age forty (40) and over, disabled veterans, and Vietnam era veterans.
2.3	Sexual Harassment. No employee shall be subjected to discrimination in the form of sexual harassment, currently defined in the University of Washington Handbook (Volume 4, Part 1, Chapter 2) as the use of one's authority or power, either explicitly or implicitly, to coerce another into unwanted sexual relations or to punish another for his or her refusal, or as the creation by a member of the University community of an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or educational environment, through verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature.
2.4	Complaints. A discrimination complaint may be filed with the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office and/or as a grievance in accordance with Article 4 of this Agreement. Employees may also file discrimination complaints with appropriate federal or state agencies. The parties agree to encourage the filing of discrimination complaints through the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office.
ARTICLE 3	- UNION MEMBERSHIP, FAIR SHARE AND DUES DEDUCTION
3.1	Union Membership and Fair Share Fee. The Union shall fairly represent all employees covered by this Agreement. Therefore, as a condition of employment, employees who are covered under this Agreement shall, within sixty (60) days of employment, or within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this Agreement (whichever is later) either execute a union membership and payroll deduction form or a fair share payroll deduction form and shall have the appropriate fee deducted from their payroll checks. Any employee who is a member of the Union may voluntarily withdraw their membership from the Union and pay a fair share fee by giving written notice to the Union within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement.
Employees who are determined by the Public Employment Relations Commission (PERC) to satisfy the religious exemption requirements of RCW 41.80.100 shall make payments to the Union equivalent to regular union dues gnd initiation fees for purposes within the program of the Union
2
as designated by the employee that would be in harmo ly with his or her conscience.
3.2	Dues Deduction. Upon written authorization by an inc vidual employee, the Employer shall provide for the semi-monthly payoll deductions of union dues and fair share fees which are uniformly applied to all members in those bargaining units in which the Union is the exclusive bargaining agent.
3.3	Indemnification. The Union and each employee authorizing the assignment of wages for the payment of Union dues her iby undertakes to indemnify and hold the University harmless from all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that may arise against th University for or on account of any deductions made from the wages of $i ich employees.
3.4	Remittance of Dues. The Employer shall electronical y transmit to the Union on the first bank working day after each payday all dues and fair share fees deducted for that pay period in those bargain ig units for which the Union is the exclusive bargaining representative.
3.5	Listing of Employees. The Employer shall provide the I inion with a semimonthly listing of all employees with union dues or fair share fee deductions in the designated bargaining units and a m nthly listing of all employees in the designated bargaining units who terminated their employment, or changed their employment status, classification or work location. The employer shall provide this information e ..‘Ctronica'Jy along with bargaining unit pay rates and home addresses.
ARTICLE 4	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4.1	Definition. A grievance, within the meaning of this Ac -eemerrt, shall be defined as any alleged misapplication or misinterpretatii hi of the terms of this Agreement.
A grievant, within the meaning of this Agreement, shall be defined as an employee within a bargaining unit covered by this Agree nent who alleges a grievance, the Union alleging a grievance, or the Er iployer under the terms and conditions of this Agreement. An individual grievant may not invoke Steps Three or Four of the grievance procedure without authorization from the Union. Grievances involving ormal counseling (Step One), final counseling or dismissal (Step Two) star I be submitted to the level of supervision or designee having authority to a :;t.
4.2	Responsibilities. The Union shall prevail upon all ■ mployees in the bargaining units and especially stewards to make a di gent and serious
3
attempt to resolve complaints at the lowest possible level. The Employer, likewise, shall prevail upon its supervisory personnel to cooperate fully with the stewards and other Union representatives in the prompt resolution of any grievances that may arise.
4.3	Employee Grievance Rights. Any employee who believes he/she has been aggrieved may personally seek relief from that condition by filing a grievance, irrespective of any supervisor's opinion of the grievance’s validity. In the presentation of grievances the employees shall be safe from restraint, interference, discrimination, or reprisal.
4.4	Time Limitations. An extension of the time limitations as stipulated in the respective steps below may be obtained by mutual consent of the parties. Failure of the employee to comply with the time limitations without a request for time extension shall constitute automatic withdrawal of the grievance. Failure of the Employer to comply with the time limitations without a request for time extension shall establish the right of the employee to proceed to the next step of the grievance procedure. For the purposes of calculating time requirements, the first day shall be the day following the day on which the employee was aware, or should have reasonably been aware of the issue giving rise to the grievance. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be included in the calculation of days except that the final day may not be on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday but will end at the close of the first working day following the Saturday, Sunday or holiday.
4.5	Pay Status - Meetings. Meetings and discussions on the grievance held in connection with this grievance procedure shall normally be held during the University's regular business hours, and no deduction in pay status shall be made for the grievant or steward for reasonable time spent in such meetings or discussions during the employee's scheduled duty hours. Time off for employees and stewards shall be granted by supervision following a request, but in consideration of job responsibilities. If the requested time off cannot be granted, the parties shall arrange for time off at the earliest possible time thereafter.
4.6	Grievance Withdrawal. A grievance may be withdrawn in writing at any time by mutual agreement of both parties and if withdrawn shall not be resubmitted.
4.7	Employee Representation. The Union as exclusive representative of bargaining unit employees is the responsible representative of said employees in grievance matters.
4
4.8	The parties agree that decisions rendered under the prii -r HEPB process shall not be determinative or precedential for any issue raised under the grievance procedure.
4.9	Steps of the Grievance Procedure. All grievances shall lie processed in accordance with the following procedures. Grievances over final counseling or dismissal will begin at Step Two. For ail other grievances the parties may agree to waive Step One. For grievanci•’» filed directly at Step Two, the grievant will have thirty (30) calends days from the occurrence of the situation, condition or action which ca ised the grievant to file.
Step One: Presentation. Within thirty (30) calendar days of the occurrence of a situation, condition, or action which caused the grievance, the employee(s) affected and/or the steward or Union re iresentative shall present the grievance to the employee's immediati supervisor for resolution. Presentation of the grievance shall include a short written description of the subject of the grievance and the contract Articles allegedly violated. If the grievance is directed agains the employee's immediate supervisor, the grievance may be presented Io the next higher level of supervision. The parties shall attempt to me ft to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days. The super' sor will respond within five (5) calendar days of the meeting.
Step Two: If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in Mep One, and the employee wishes to pursue the matter further, said grievance shall be put into writing on the authorized grievance form and referred to the department head or designee or to the next app opriate level of management and the Office of Labor Relations within fifteen (15) calendar days after the decision from Step One. The date of alle< ed occurrence of the grievance shall be specified. The parties shall at empt to meet to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days following the date of written submittal. At this step the Union agrees Io cite all known sections of the Agreement which allegedly have beer violated and to provide a copy to the Human Resources Office and Office of Labor Relations. The grievant may be represented by a stewa d and union staff representative. The University will be represented b;, the appropriate management official, or designee, a representative fn m the Office of Labor Relations and a human resources consultant, i- desired by the University. The University will respond in writing within 'en (10) calendar days.
Step Three: Grievance Mediation. If a satisfactory >ettlement is not reached at Step Two, the grievant with authorization fro n the Union may submit the written grievance to the Office of Labor Rei nions requesting grievance mediation within fifteen (15) calendar days.
5
Upon mutual agreement, the Employer and the Union shall request, within ten (10) calendar days, grievance mediation services of the Public Employment Relations Commission (PERC). If those services are unavailable on a timely basis, the parties shall immediately request a list of grievance mediators from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS). The cost of the mediation shall be borne equally by both parties
Step Four: Arbitration. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached at Step Two or Step Three, either of the signatory parties to this Agreement may submit the grievance to binding arbitration. Such submittal must be made within fifteen (15) calendar days following the conclusion of Step Two or Step Three. Within sixty (60) calendar days of the execution of the Agreement, the parties agree to meet to establish a permanent panel of three (3) - five (5) arbitrators. These arbitrators shall be assigned cases by the parties on a rotating basis. If the arbitrator is not available to hear the case within sixty (60) calendar days of the decision by either party to go to arbitration, the parties will contact the next arbitrator in the rotation. If no arbitrator can hear the case within sixty (60) calendar days, the case will be assigned to the arbitrator who can hear the case on the earliest date. The appointment to the panel will be for the first eighteen (18) months of the Agreement at which time either party may decide not to continue the appointment. If an individual arbitrator decides to remove his/her name from the panel or if one or more members of the panel are not continued by either party, the parties will meet to decide whether to substitute an additional name(s).
The parties agree that the arbitrator shall have no power to render a decision that adds to, subtracts from, alters or modifies in any way the terms and conditions of the Agreement. The parties further agree that the decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon all parties. The cost of the arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties and each party shall bear the full cost of presenting its own case. The arbitrator's decision shall be made in writing and the arbitrator shall be encouraged to render the decision within thirty (30) calendar days of the close of the arbitration.
In cases where a grievance is moved to arbitration, and the parties did not avail themselves of Step Three: Grievance Mediation, the moving party shall have the unilateral right to demand a pre-arbitration settlement conference. These conferences shall not delay the arbitration process, and may be held with or without the presence of the arbitrator, at the option of the moving party. In the event that an arbitrator is present, the cost of the arbitrator’s participation shall be borne equally by the parties.
6
ARTICLE 5	- STEWARDS
5.1	Recognition. The Employer recognizes the right of the Union to designate a maximum of seventy (70) union stewards from the Norisupervisory and Supervisory bargaining units. Upon proper designation ii accordance with Section 5.3 of this Article the stewards shall be authorized to take up employee grievances through the grievance procedure (f any SEIU Local 925 Agreement between the Employer and the Union.
5.2	Steward Release Time. A steward who is processin ,j a grievance in accordance with the grievance procedure of any UEIU Local 925 Agreement between the Employer and the Union st all be permitted reasonable time to assist in the resolution of legi :rmate employee grievances on the Employer's property without loss ol pay or recorded work time. Time off for processing grievances shall be granted to a steward by supervision following a request, but in consideration of job responsibilities. If permission for time off cannot be immediately granted, the supervisor shall arrange for time off at the earlin st possible time thereafter.
A record of a steward's work time spent on grievances o other authorized activity on behalf of the Union shall be maintained on a basis mutually agreeable between the Union and the department involved.
In the event the Employer determines that the amount r;f work time used by any steward on grievances or other authorized I nion activities is unreasonable, it may become a topic for mutual discus don between the parties.
5.3	Designation of Stewards and Areas of Jurisdiction. The Union will submit to the Office of Labor Relations on a semiannual basis the names of all Union officers, stewards, their work locations, and are as of jurisdiction. Stewards shall process grievances only within their jurisdiction unless otherwise mutually agreed. In the event of redesign; :ion of stewards, notice will be provided to the Office of Labor Relation i. at least two (2) working days before any such steward shall be recognized as properly designated to take up employee grievances.
5.4	Where the Union requests in advance of a Step Two hearing that a second steward be present for training purposes, thi; release will be approved without loss of pay or recorded work tim : subject to the operational needs of the second steward’s department.
7
ARTICLE 6	- STEWARD TRAINING
6.1	During each year of this Agreement each of the Union's stewards as designated in Article 5 of this Agreement shall be provided with eight (8) hours of release time without loss of pay to participate in steward training programs sponsored by the Union.
6.2	The Union shall submit to the Office of Labor Relations and affected departments as far in advance as possible, but at least three (3) weeks in advance, the names of those stewards who will be eligible for each training course.
6.3	Time off for these purposes may be approved in advance by the employee's supervisor and will be contingent upon the supervisor's ability to provide proper work coverage during the requested time off.
ARTICLE 7	- UNION BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Employees who intend to absent themselves from work for the purpose of attending and participating in Union business functions or programs such as meetings, conventions, seminars, or to work for the Union on a temporary basis, may do so under the following conditions:
(1)	Use accrued vacation leave;
(2)	Take leave of absence without pay;
(3)	Use accrued compensatory time;
(4)	Use accrued holiday or personal holiday time.
The Union and/or the employee shall request leave approval from the affected employee's immediate supervisor as far in advance as possible but at least three (3) weeks prior to the planned absence for approval.
ARTICLE 8 - HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
8.1	General.
(a)	Hours of work for regular monthly employees in the bargaining units listed in Appendix I shall be established by the employing official.
(b)	Overtime may be assigned outside of normally scheduled shifts and compensated in accordance with Section 8.6.
8
8.2	Definitions.
(a)	Full-time Employee. A regular monthly staff employ, ;e scheduled to work forty (40) hours per week in a seven (7) d< / period; or for designated hospital personnel scheduled to work eigh y (80) hours in a fourteen (14) day period.
(b)	Part-time Employee. A regular monthly staff employ ce scheduled to work a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week but Ie s than forty (40) per week in a seven (7) day period; or for de: gnated hospital personnel scheduled to work more than forty (40) he ;rs but less than eighty (80) hours in a fourteen (14) day period. Pari time employees shall receive all benefits of employment on a pro-r; la basis, except health benefits coverage which is determined by the s' ite.
8.3	Work Day/Meal Period.
(a)	The normal work day for full-time employees typically ,.hall be eight (8) hours to be completed within a nine (9) hour period. ' eal breaks shall be a minimum of thirty (30) minutes, unpaid and oi the employee's own time, provided the employee is off-duty for that i -eal period. It is the Employer's intention to provide uninterrupted meal :>reaks.
(b)	The meal period shall commence not earlier than thi second hour of the shift nor later than the fifth hour of the shift. If he employee is required to work beyond the fifth hour without a bre. <, the employee will be allowed to eat his/her meal at the duty station < n the Employer's time.
8.4	Rest Breaks. Employees shall receive a fifteen (15) mil ute break during each four (4) hours worked. It is tne Employer's intuition to provide uninterrupted rest breaks.
8.5	Work Period Designations/Scheduled Work Periods. Each position will be assigned by the personnel officer to one of the work pc od designations identified below. Employees will be informed of their elig jilrty for overtime compensation.
(a)	Scheduled work periods, within which there an: two (2) work schedules'.
(1)	Regular work schedule. The regular work scht lule for full-time regular monthly employees shall consist of five (5 consecutive and uniformly scheduled eight (8) hour days in a sevt i (7) day period. Uniformly scheduled means a daily repetition of I «e same working hours and a weekly repetition of the same working days
9
(2)	Alternative work schedule. Operational necessity or employee convenience may require positions that are normally designated regular work schedule to work an alternate forty (40) hour work schedule (other than five (5) uniform and consecutive eight (8) hour days in a seven (7) day period), or as provided by the Washington State Minimum Wage Law in conjunction with the federal law which provides for an eighty (80) hour work week in a fourteen (14) day period for hospital personnel.
(b)	Nonscheduled Work Period. The nonscheduled work period designation applies to those positions for which the hours cannot be scheduled but which work a forty (40) hour week and do not meet any of the other work period designations.
(c)	Part-time Schedule. This is any deviation from any full-time schedule which includes twenty (20) hours or more per week but less than forty (40) hours per week in seven (7) consecutive days; or for designated hospital personnel forty (40) or more hours and less than eighty (80) hours in a fourteen (14) day period.
(d)	Split Shifts. Employees will not be assigned to split shifts unless there is prior agreement.
8.6	Overtime.
(a)	Any one of the following constitutes overtime:
(1)Work in excess of the daily work shift for full-time employees assigned to scheduled work period positions;
(2)	Work in excess of forty (40) hours in one (1) work week for employees assigned to scheduled or nonscheduled work period positions; or
(3)	For hospital personnel assigned to a fourteen (14) day schedule, work in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty four (24) hour period or eighty (80) hours in a fourteen (14) day period.
(b)	Overtime worked by employees assigned to scheduled or nonscheduled work positions shall be compensated at a rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee's straight time hourly rate including shift differential for all overtime worked as provided in subsection (a) of this section.
(c)	Employees assigned to scheduled or nonscheduled work period positions shall receive monetary payment as compensation for
io
overtime worked; however, at the employee's reque 4 compensatory time off at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the overtin ■; hours worked may be granted in lieu of monetary payment. The accumulation of unused compensatory time that exceeds two hundred 'brty (240) hours must be paid in cash.
(d)	If compensation is paid to an employee for accrued compensatory time, such compensation shall be paid at the regula rate earned by the employee at the time the employee receives such payment. Upon termination of employment, an employee will be pair for any unused compensatory time in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act.
(e)	Use of accrued compensatory time shall be approved iy the employing official with consideration being given to the work requirements of the department and the wishes of the employee. Compi nsatory time off may be scheduled by the employing official during tfiu final sixty (60) days of a biennium.
Compensatory time must be used or paid for by Ji. ne 30th of each fiscal year. Exceptions to this policy may be approved by the Human Resources Office upon written justification of the extension.
(f)	For purposes of computing overtime compensation, holidays or leave with pay during the employee's regular work sc1 -sdule shall be considered as time worked.
8.7	Overtime Policies.
(a)Whenever overtime work is required, the employing official shall determine the employees needed to work overtime on I he basis of their relevant experience. Overtime shall be distributed as equitably as possible among qualified employees.
(b)	A record of overtime hours worked by each employee shall be kept by the Employer, and such record of overtime may be reviewed, upon request, by the Union.
(c)	ft is intended that overtime wages for which salary ; ayment is to be made shall be paid to the employee on the paydate following the pay period in which the overtime was earned. In no event shall such overtime payments be made later than thirty (30) cal endar days from the end of the pay period in which the overtime was i -arned providing the payroll office has received the Exception Timi- Report (ETR) authorizing such payment within the time limits se by the payroll department.
n
(d)	All employees assigned to scheduled and nonscheduled work periods in classifications listed in Appendix 1 shall be eligible for overtime. The University currently designates certain job titles, listed in Appendix II as exempt from overtime. This does not preclude the Union or any individual employee from challenging the University’s overtime determination in appropriate forums.
(e)	Temporary Modified Weekly Schedule. By mutual agreement, individual employees and their supervisors may agree to a temporary modified weekly schedule. This schedule allows employees to alter their regular daily working hours within a work week without generating the payment of overtime (unless the employee works beyond forty (40) hours in the employee's regular work week). Temporary modified weekly scheduling adjustments must be completed within the employee's regular work week. Such scheduling will not be considered a regularly recurring alternative schedule.
8.8	Shift Assignment Notification. The Employer agrees to provide a minimum of fourteen (14) calendar days notice to an employee in the event of an Employer-directed permanent change in the employee’s shift assignment or work schedule. For temporary changes in work assignment occurring within the employee's assigned work week, the Employer will provide two (2) calendar days notice with the day of notification constituting the first day of notice. For emergency reasons, lack of work, an existing safety hazard to the employee or others, or mutual agreement between the Employer and employee under Article 8.7(e), the Employer may temporarily change an employee's schedule with fewer than two (2) calendar days notice. Temporary is defined as no longer than one (1) week.
Temporary shift changes not mutually agreed to shall not be employed to avoid the accrual of overtime.
The assignment of employees in various shifts within each work group or department shall be determined by the employing official, provided that when qualifications are substantially equal in the judgment of the employing department, seniority shall be a factor in determining shift assignment. This criteria does not apply to positions deemed by the employer to require a rotational shift.
8.9	Callback Pay. When a scheduled work period employee has left the institution grounds and is called to return to the work station outside of regularly scheduled hours, he/she shall receive two (2) hours bonus pay plus time actually worked. The bonus pay shall be compensated at the regular rate; time worked shall be compensated at time and one-half (1-1/2). Time worked immediately preceding the regular shift does not
I2
constitute call back, provided time worked does not exce .-d two (2) hours or notice of at least eight (8) hours has been given, mi employee on standby status called to return to the work station does ri.:t qualify for call back pay.
8.10	Off Duty Work. Scheduled or nonscheduled employees not on standby status who are required to perform substantial work-n <ated duties via telephone outside their regular duty hours and away !rom their work station shall be compensated in the event any such lelephone call is initiated by the Employer. Such time worked shall I e credited at a minimum of four (4) dollars or for eligible employees o /ertime payment shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of nis Article. The employee shall be paid whichever is greater.
8.11	Standby Pay. Scheduled or nonscheduled work p< rod employees required to restrict off-duty activities to be available fi ir duty shall be compensated at a rate of $1.75 per hour, except for thos is job titles listed in Appendix VIII, which shall receive the applicable ra es. Employees who, on the effective date of this Agreement, receive stai idby in excess of those rates shall continue to do so. When called in fron standby status, the employee shall receive premium pay (time and omt-half [1-1/2] the employee’s regular rate) for a minimum work period of two (2) hours. The two (2) hours pay shall not apply unless the employee has left the employer's premises.
8.12	Shift Differential. Employees assigned to evening and light shifts shall receive a shift differential of $1.00 per hour, except fc those job titles listed in Appendix III, which shall receive the applicable rates. Evening shift is defined as a majority of time worked daily or wee :ly between 5:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. Night shift is defined as a majorit: of time worked daily or weekly between 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. Any classification which receives a higher shift differential on the effec ;ve date of this Agreement shall continue to do so. Shift differential sh; be paid for the entire shift which qualifies. When an employee is regularly assigned to an afternoon or evening shift that qualifies for shift differer rial, he/she shall continue to receive the shift differential during temporary assignment, not to exceed five (5) working days, to a shift that does not qi alify.
8.13	Language Pay. Whenever a position has a bona fide requirement for regular use of more than one (1) language, or sign langu ige (AMESLAN), or braille, premium pay of two (2) steps above the level normally assigned for that position shall be paid except for those instr nces where the position is allocated to a class that specifies these skills.
8.14	Alternative/Flexible Schedules. The University's officis hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Departments having continuou:: and/or public
13
responsibility may establish independent work schedules in order to meet their special needs. Departments are encouraged to establish flexible work schedules and to give serious consideration to employee requests. Individual requests for flexible scheduling may be approved by the employing official, provided that such scheduling does not interfere with the effective operation of the department and shall be dependent upon such considerations as building accessibility and security.
Notwithstanding the above provision an employee may file a grievance and process such grievance to Step Two of the grievance procedure on the grounds that the decision was arbitrary and not made for business reasons. If the grievance is not resolved it shall be considered withdrawn.
Within three (3) months of the execution of this Agreement, the parties agree to meet and develop a survey regarding Alternate/Flex Work Schedules. This survey shall be sent to all bargaining unit employees with their paycheck/paystub and will seek to determine the extent to which alternate work schedules are in place throughout the University, including requests, approval and denials of alternate work schedules.
8.15	Excepted Work Period Positions. Employees assigned to excepted work period positions normally do not qualify for overtime pay. However, when an employing official determines that the employee has been directed to work an excessive amount of hours for an extended period of time, overtime in the form of compensatory time or cash not to exceed a "time and one half (1-1/2)" basis may be approved by the Vice President for Human Resources.
When the University creates or modifies a classification such that it is excepted from overtime in accordance with the law, the Union shall be notified in advance of implementation. This language does not preclude the Union or any individual employee from challenging the University's overtime determination in appropriate forums.
8.16	Telework. The parties agree that the Employer may offer telework opportunities. If the Employer chooses to offer such opportunities, the Employer may enter into direct discussions with the affected employee(s) regarding the components of a written telework agreement. Such agreements shall be between the affected employee(s) and the department. Upon request, the Employer shall meet and confer with the Union regarding the agreements. The agreements will address the treatment of work time in the event of equipment failure.
8.17	Staffing Concerns. Staff are strongly encouraged to bring concerns about staffing issues to the attention of their department(s). Local 925 can request that the Office of Labor Relations set up a Joint Labor
14
Management meeting for the particular department. Thi Union can also place on the agenda of any Labor Management meet ng the issue of staffing in particular departments/units.
8.18 Weekend Pay. All hours worked on weekends by employees in applicable job titles shall include a weekend pay premium in ; iccordance with Appendix III.
ARTICLE 9 - VACATION LEAVE
9.1	Policy. To the degree possible vacation leave shall ie scheduled in accordance with the preference of the employee.
9.2	Accrual. Employees will accrue vacation leave durir :j the new hire probationary period, but may not use vacation leave until rompletion of the probationary period. The current accrual schedule for ful' -time employees (prorated for part-time), to be credited monthly, is as fbllov. s:
During
Paid Vacation D: vs Per Year
1st year 2nd year 3rd year 4th year 5th year 6th year 7th year 8th year 9th year 10th year 11th year IO*
12 year or more
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
9.3 Scheduling.
(a) The annual vacation schedule for use of vacatio' leave in each department shall be established in the existing departmental manner if adequate or in the following manner:
(1) Twice each year, on or about April 1 and Octotar 1, a vacation request sheet shall be circulated by the dei artment to the bargaining unit employees. Each employee shall indicate his or her preferences of a vacation time period. In the event that two (2) or more employees request the same vacation period and
15
supervision must limit the number of persons who may take vacation leave at one (1) time due to work requirements, preference shall be determined by the following method: A number equal to one (1) point for each month of unbroken departmental service shall be added to a number equal to one (1) point for each month of unbroken University service and the employee with the greater number of points shall be given preference.
(2)	Supervision shall post the vacation schedule by May 1 and November 1 which shall remain in effect for each succeeding six (6) months; that is, June 1 through November 30 and December 1 through May 31, respectively.
(b)	Employees may make supplemental vacation requests (requests made outside the provisions of 9.3(a)) at any time. However, such supplemental requests shall not take precedence over requests scheduled in accordance with 9.3{a). Individual vacation periods may be changed at any time by mutual agreement between the employee(s) concerned and supervision; however, in no case shall an employee's scheduled vacation interfere with the necessary work of the organization, the determination of which shall rest with supervision.
An employee who makes a supplemental vacation request will be notified whether the request is approved or denied within a reasonable period of time, but in no case more than fourteen (14) calendar days after the supplemental vacation request is submitted.
(c)	Any bargaining unit employee who may transfer into a department shall alter his/her preferred vacation period for that year if in conflict with a previously established vacation schedule for that department and the affected employees and department are unable to mutually resolve the conflict.
(d)	Vacation Denial. When an employee’s vacation cannot be approved, the supervisor shall schedule the employee's vacation at the next earliest date requested by the employee and deemed possible by the supervisor. In the event that the University cancels an employee's scheduled vacation, leaving no time to reschedule such vacation before the employee's maximum balance will be reached, the employee's vacation balance will be permitted to exceed the allowable maximum and the employee will continue to accrue vacation for a period of up to six (6) months in order to allow rescheduling of the employee's vacation.
I6
(e)	Holiday Rotation. Vacation requests filed in accordance with 9.3(a) for the week including Thanksgiving and the weeks including Christmas Day and New Years Day shall be grante J on a rotating basis. The rotation will begin with the most senior f irson (seniority shall be determined by the method contained in 9.3(a (1) above) and shall proceed in that order until all staff wishing to taki - vacation leave during those holiday periods have done so. No en iloyee shall be granted more than one (1) of the aforementioned wi eks in a single year, unless there are no other interested emp! vees and the department is able to grant the request based on oper dional needs.
9.4	Vacation Leave Accumulation. An employee may accurr ..late a vacation balance which normally shall not exceed two hundred fc ty (240) hours. An employee may elect to accrue in excess of two hur red forty (240) hours but must receive approval to use the excess baler ce prior to the next anniversary date or lose those hours accrued in excess of two hundred forty (240).
9.5	Vacation Leave Cash Payment. Any permanent empk yee who either resigns or retires, is la id-off or is terminated by the Un ^ersity shall be entitled to accrued vacation pay.
ARTICLE 10	- SICK LEAVE/BEREAVEMENT LEA /E
10.1	Sick Leave.
(a)	Accrual. Full-time employees (prorated for part-time) accrue eight (8) hours credit for each month of completed regular mon lily service.
(b)	Sick-Leave--Use. Sick leave shall be allowed an em| loyee under the following conditions. The Employer reserves the ight to require medical verification or appropriate proof when sick lei ve is requested for any reason listed below. The Employer will not make unreasonable requests for sick leave verification.
(1)	Because of and during illness, disability or ir ary which has incapacitated the employee from performing requir: d duties.
(2)	By reason of exposure of the employee to a cor tagious disease during such period as attendance on duty woul i jeopardize the health of fellow employees or the public.
(3)	Because of emergencies caused by serious illne ,s or injury of a family member as defined in 10.4, fifteen (15) yi ars of age and over that require the presence of the employee to provide
17
immediate necessary care of the patient or to make arrangements for extended care. The Director of Human Resources Operations may authorize sick leave use as provided in this subsection for other than family members as defined in 10.4. The applicability of "emergency," "necessary care" and "extended care" shall be made by the Vice President for Human Resources.
(4)	To care for a child (as identified in 10.4) under the age of eighteen (18) with a health condition that requires treatment or supervision, or to make arrangements for extended care.
(5)	Because of illness or injury of a family member as defined in 10.4 who is a person of disability and requires the employee’s presence to provide short-term care or to make arrangements for extended care.
(6)	To provide emergency child care (as identified in 12.6(e) and 10.7) for the employee's child (as defined in 10,4). Such use of sick leave is limited to three (3) instances per calendar year not to exceed twenty four (24) hours (hours prorated for part-time), unless extended by the Vice President for Human Resources and shall be used only as specified in Article 12.6(e) and 10.7.
(7)	Because of the death of a family member as defined in 10.4 that requires the assistance of the employee in making arrangements for interment of the deceased,
(8)	For personal medical, dental, or optical appointments or for family members' (as defined in 10.4) appointments when the presence of the employee is required, if arranged in advance with the employing official or designee.
(c)	Sick leave may be granted for condolence or bereavement.
(d)	Use of Vacation Leave or Compensatory Time Off for Sick Leave Purposes. An employee who has used all accrued sick leave may be allowed to use accrued vacation leave and/or compensatory time off for sick leave purposes when approved in advance or authorized by the employee's departmental supervisor.
(e)	Restoration of Vacation Leave. In the event of an incapacitating illness or injury during vacation leave, the employee's supervisor may authorize the use of sick leave and the equivalent restoration of any vacation leave otherwise charged. Such requests shall be in writing, and a medical certificate may be requested.
18
(f)	No Abuse of Sick Leave. Both parties agree that neither the abuse nor the arbitrary denial of sick leave will be condoned The Employer and the Union agree to work cooperatively toward I ie resolution of mutually identified problems regarding the use of sick leave.
10.2	Sick Leave Cash Out. Eligible employees may elect to r iceive monetary compensation for accrued sick leave as follows:
Only in January of each year an employee whose sick ,-ave balance at the end of the previous year exceeds four hundred eighty 480) hours may elect to convert the sick leave hours earned in the previot calendar year, minus those hours used during the year, to monetary compensation. No sick leave hours may be converted which would reduce the calendar year-end balance below four hundred eighty (480) ho. 's. Monetary compensation shall be paid at the rate of 25% and shal be based upon the employee's current salary. All converted hours will t:? deducted from the employee’s sick leave balance.
Employees who separate from University service due iti retirement ar death shall be compensated for the unused sick leave ar. cumulation from the date of most recent hire in a leave eligible position । .ith the State of Washington at the rate of 25%. Compensation shall be based upon the employee's wage at the time of separation. For the purpose of this section, retirement shall not include vested out of service1 employees who leave funds on deposit with the retirement system.
Former eligible employees who are re-employed within tl 'ee (3) years of their separation from service shall be granted all unused sick leave credits, if any, to which they are entitled at time of separal on.
10.3	Bereavement Leave. An employee shall be granted th ee (3) days of bereavement leave for each death of an immediate fam y or household member as defined in Section 10.4. Bereavement leave ::eyond three (3) days may be approved in accordance with Article 1C 1(c) based on individual circumstances, such as relationship of the employee to the deceased family member, employee responsibility for making funeral arrangements and/or distance of travel out of the area.
10.4	Definitions.
Family Members. Individuals considered to be members :jf the family are the employee’s spouse or same or opposite sex domesi partner, child, parent, grandparent, grandchild, sister or brother. I also includes individuals in the following relationships with the employees spouse or domestic partner: child, parent and grandparent. "Child'; ilso Includes any child residing in the employee’s home through fouler care legal
19
guardianship or custody. Family members include those persons in a “step" relationship.
10.5	Reasonable Accommodation Due to Disability. An employee who is unable to perform the work of their position due to mental, sensory or physical incapacity may be separated from service after the institution has made good faith efforts to reasonably accommodate the employee's disability in accordance with applicable state and federal law.
10.6	Shared Leave. Employees shall participate in the University's shared leave program in accordance with state law and University policy as set forth in the Administrative Policy Statements 45.10.
10.7	Choice of Leave. In accordance with RCW 49.12 and WAC 296-130, employees shall be allowed to use any or all of their choice of sick leave or other paid time off to care for a family member, as defined in 10.4 who has a serious health condition or an emergency condition. Employees shall not be disciplined or otherwise discriminated against because of their exercise of these rights.
ARTICLE 11	- HOLIDAYS
11.1	Holidays. The present holiday schedule includes the following eleven (11) days with pay.
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
(Third Monday of January)
President's Day
(Third Monday of February) Memorial Day
Independence Day Labor Day
Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Day Personal Holiday*
Holidays are prorated for part-time employees.
‘Employees who are employed four (4) months or more shall be entitled to a Personal Holiday during each calendar year. This day may be used in the same manner as any other holiday.
Use of the Personal Holiday shall be requested in writing. When the Holiday has been approved in advance and is later canceled by the University, the employee shall have the option of rescheduling the day. If the employee cannot be scheduled off, holiday premium pay will be paid.
20
The Employer may designate other cays to be observr'd in lieu of the above holidays.
11.2	Holiday Premium Pay. Any employee required to work on :i holiday or any portion thereof shall receive their regular eight (8) hour1, of holiday pay (prorated for part-time) plus premium pay at time and one-half (1-1/2). Compensatory time may be granted in lieu of monetary pj; /merit.
ARTICLE 12	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE
12.1	Leaves of absence may be granted for the following reasc is:
1.	Family Medical Leave
2.	Work-related injury or illness leave
3.	Military training leave
4.	Military service leave
5.	Civil duty leave
6.	Educational leave
7,	Leave for government service in the public interest
8.	To accommodate annual work schedules of empk yees occupying cyclic year positions
12.2	A leave of absence without pay may tie allowed for com itions applicable for leave with pay, e.g. vacation, personal or family illr .iss, or parental leave which may include infant or child care.
12.3	Returning Employee Rights.
Employees returning from an authorized leave of absence shall be employed in the same position or in another position in tl e same class in the same geographical area and organizational unit, pn viding that such re-employment is not in conflict with other Articles in this Agreement.
12.4	Family Medical Leave.
(a)	Federal Family Medical Leave Act. Consistent with tl e federal Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, an employee who has wo ked for the state for at least twelve (12) months and for at least oru-i thousand two hundred and fifty (1250) hours during the twelve (12 months prior to the requested leave is entitled to up to twelve (12) work wersks of leave per year for any combination of the following:
1. parental leave to care for a newborn or newly placed child as defined in 10.4; or
21
2.	personal medical leave due to the employee’s own serious medical condition that requires the employee's absence from work; or
3.	family medical leave to care for a family member, as defined in 10.4 who suffers from a serious medical condition that requires on-site care or supervision by the employee.
(b)	The twelve (12) week FMLA leave entitlement is available to the employee each calendar year, provided that eligibility requirements listed in (a) are met.
(c)	The University will continue the employee's existing employer-paid health insurance benefits during the period of leave covered by FMLA. If necessary, due to continued personal medical or continued approved parental leave, the employee may elect to use eight (8) hours of accrued applicable paid leave for continuation of employer paid health insurance benefits for up to four (4) months, including any portion of leave covered by the FMLA.
(d)	Parental leave. Parental leave shall be granted for the purpose of bonding with the employee's natural newborn, adoptive, or foster child. Parental leave may extend up to four months, including time covered by the FMLA, during the first year after the child's birth or placement. Leave beyond the period covered by FMLA may only be denied by the Employer due to operational necessity. Such denial can be grieved beginning at Step Two of the Grievance Procedure (Article 4). Extensions beyond four (4) months may be approved by the Employer.
Parental leave may be a combination of the employee's accrued vacation leave, sick leave up to ten (10) days, personal holiday, compensatory time or leave without pay, the combination of which may be determined by the employee.
If parental leave is taken as leave of absence without pay, the employee may apply eight (8) hours of accrued paid leave per month during the first four (4) months of parental leave to provide for continuation of employer paid health benefits. Periods of parental leave covered by the FMLA shall be deducted from the four (4) month period of eligibility to intersperse paid leave.
(e)	Disability Leave. Disability leave of absence shall be granted for a reasonable period to an employee who is precluded from performing her/his job duties because of a disability.
Employee requests for disability leave shall be submitted in writing and the disability and recovery period shall be defined and certified by a
22
licensed health care provider, subject to a second opinion at the Employer's expense.
Disability leave may be a combination of the employe e’s accrued sick leave, vacation leave, personal holiday, compensate y time, and/or leave of absence without pay, the combination of which may be determined by the employee. If disability leave is taken as leave of absence without pay, the employee may apply eic it (8) hours of accrued paid leave per month during the first foui (4) months of disability leave to provide for continuation of employer paid health benefits. Periods of disability leave covered by the1 .~MLA shall be deducted from the four (4) month period of eligibility to intersperse paid leave.
(f)	Serious health condition leave consistent with the reciuirements of the FMLA shall be granted to an employee in order to care for a family member, as defined in 10.4 who suffers from a serious medical condition that requires on site care or supervision by th :j employee.
The employer may require that such leave be support* :i by certification from the family member's health care provider. Serious health condition leave covered by the FMLA may be taken ini armittently when certified sis medically necessary.
Employees will use accrued paid leave prior to going :>n leave without pay. Sick leave may be used as described in Article 10.1(b). An employee on leave without pay under this section (serious health condition) may qualify for receipt of shared leave. Thi-r employer shall maintain employer paid health benefits during periods :if leave covered by the FMLA.
(g)	Disability and serious health condition leaves when covered by the FMLA may be taken intermittently when necessary.
(h)	The employee shall provide the employer with not les s than thirty (30) days notice before the leave is to begin except that if the need for the leave is unforeseeable thirty (30) days in advance, th > employee shall provide such notice as is practicable.
12.5	Educational Leave. Leave of absence without pay ma7 be granted for educational leave for the duration of actual attendance ii the educational program.
12.6	Leave Due to Child Care Emergencies. For leave required to care for an ill child see Article 10.1(b)(6).
23
(a)	Absence due to child care emergencies as defined shall be charged to one of the following:
(1)	Compensatory time;
(2)	Vacation [eave;
(3)	Sick leave;
(4)	Personal holiday;
(5)	Leave of absence without pay.
(b)	Use of any of the above leave categories is dependent upon the employee's eligibility to use such leave. Accrued compensatory time shall be used before any other leave is used.
(c)	Use of vacation leave, sick leave, and leave of absence without pay for emergency child care is limited to three (3) instances per calendar year of each type of leave not to exceed twenty four (24) hours each, with the hours prorated for part-time employees.
(d)	The employee upon returning from such leave shall designate in writing to which leave category the absence will be charged. For the purpose of this section, advance approval or written advance notice of vacation leave, personal holiday, and/or leave of absence without pay shall not be required.
(e)	A child care emergency is defined as a situation causing an employee's inability to report for or continue scheduled work because of emergency child care requirements such as unexpected absence of regular care provider, unexpected closure of the child's school, or unexpected need to pick up child at school earlier than normal.
12.7	Military Leave. Military leave will be treated in accordance with applicable state and federal law.
12.8	Civil Duty Leave. Leave of absence with pay shall be granted employees to serve on jury duty, as trial witnesses or to exercise other subpoenaed civil duties. Employees shall reimburse the institution for all compensation received for such civil duty, exclusive of expenses incurred.
12.9	Work-Related Injury Leave. An employee who sustains a work-related illness or injury shall, upon written request and proof of continuing disability, be granted leave of absence without pay for up to six (6) months without loss of layoff seniority or change in annual increment date. Leave without pay exceeding six (6) months may be granted at the option of the employing official.
Employees who suffer a work related injury or illness that is compensable under the state worker's compensation law may select time loss
24
compensation exclusively, leave payment exclusively or a combination of the two. Employees taking sick leave during a perk. :l in which they receive workers' compensation under the industrial insi ance provisions shall receive full sick leave pay, less any industrial insura ice payments for time loss during the sick leave period.
12.10	Inclement Weather and Suspended Operation. When an employee is absent from work due to inclement weather, the employee shall have the option of charging the absence to accrued compensate y time, vacation leave or leave without pay.
If the University determines it is advisable due to emergr -icy conditions to suspend the operation of all of any portion of the institu'ion the following will govern:
When prior notification has not been given, employei -r released until further notice after reporting to work, shall receive a min mum of four (4) hours pay for the first day. The following options shall bi- made available to affected employees not required to work for the balan ;e of the closure: vacation leave, personal holiday, accrued compensa'ory time, leave without pay, or up to ninety (90) days to make up work tii re lost. Make up time worked by overtime-eligible full-time employees is -■ alculated at time and one-half (1-1/2).
ARTICLE 13	- CLASSIFICATIONS
13.1	The parties agree to defer discussions regarding the cla: sification system changes promulgated by the Personnel System Refcrm Act of 2002 (PSRA). The parties agree that discussion regarding the classification system is a permissive subject of bargaining and this ,'greement is not intended to alter that understanding.
The discussions will commence no later than sixty (60) days following the Department of Personnel’s implementation of Phase Om- of the statewide revision to the classification system (Phase One is scheduled to be implemented on or about July 1,2005).
During this period of discussion the current classifii aliens with their respective pay levels are hereby incorporated into ihis contract as Appendix I. The existing class specifications for these jol ns are considered in effect upon the execution of this contract.
13.2	(a) Should the University decide to create, eliminate or modify class specification which does not involve a major restruc ure to the overall classification system it will notify the Union in advance of
25
implementing the action. Notification will include the bargaining unit status of the classification and, for a newly created or modified classification considered to be in the bargaining unit, a proposed salary. Notification will occur at least thirty (30) days in advance of any proposed implementation date. At the Union's request the University will meet and confer with the Union over its proposed action.
(b)	An employee occupying a position reallocated to a class with a lower salary range maximum due to a class being created, abolished or modified will retain the salary of their former position until reaching the top of the range of the former position, and then will be frozen until the new class pay range catches up.
An employee(s) occupying a position reallocated to a class with a higher salary range due to a class being created, abolished or modified will receive the same step in the new range as the employee(s) held in the previous range. The periodic increment date of the employee will remain unchanged.
(c)	Within thirty (30) calendar days following implementation of the University's decision to create or combine classifications per 13.2, or modify class specifications for bargaining unit positions, the Union may file an appeal with the Classification Review Hearing Officer selected under Article 14 of this contract, to determine if the salary assigned to the classification is appropriate.
13.	3 The Union may, at any time, propose a new classification with appropriate justification. These proposals will be reviewed by the Compensation Office of Human Resources which will accept, reject, or modify any proposal. This review is not grievable.
13.	4 The University agrees to notify the Union of any proposed reclassifications of occupied bargaining unit positions into non-bargaining unit positions.
ARTICLE 14	- RECLASSIFICATION
14.1	Policy. Positions shall be allocated to the appropriate classification. Requests to reclassify should be based on a belief that the duties, responsibilities, or qualifications of a position are such that it is inappropriately classified.
26
14.2	Position Review Process.
(a)	The University, employee, or employee representati 'e may request that a position be reviewed when the requesting pa ly believes that the basis of its request has become a permanent requirement of the position. Employees and employee representatives i iay not request that a position be reviewed more often than one ■; every six (6) months.
(b)	The request must be complete and in writing on form; provided by the University. Requests may be submitted to Human Resources or to an employee's direct supervisor or department. Any p-i'ty may submit additional information, including the names of individuals, which the party believes is relevant to the position review.
(c)	An employee may request that a representative bi ■ present as an observer at meetings with the University reviewed scheduled to discuss the request for position review. At the emph yee's request a portion of such meetings shall be conducted in a quiet and private location, away from the work station,
(d)	The University reviewer will investigate the positi: n and issue a written response to the employee or employee repr- tentative within sixty (60) calendar days from receipt, by Human Rusources, of the completed request. A completed request is defined , is the employee completing all employee portions of the reclassiftcai on forms. The response will include notification of the class and salary assigned when the position is reallocated, or notification of :he reasons the position does not warrant reallocation when the request is not approved. Reclass requests may be submitter at either the departmental level or directly to Human Resources. T .eclass requests submitted at the departmental level must be forw; rded to Human Resources within thirty (30) calendar days.
(e)	The effective date of allocations or reallocations initiated by the University shall be determined by the University. The effective date of a reallocation resulting from an employee or employe e representative request for position review will be established as the Ist or the 16th of the month which precedes the date that the completed request was filed with Human Resources or the employee’s direct supervisor or department, whichever date is earliest. The date oi eceipt must be appropriately documented.
(f)	An employee may request reconsideration followir. receipt of the University's determination. Requests for reconsidera' on will not hold the timeframe for filing an appeal under 14.3.
27
14.3	Position Review Appeal Process. If the Union wishes to appeal the decision of the University, it may appeal to the Classification Review Hearing Officer within thirty (30) calendar days following the date of the University's written response.
Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall be jointly selected by the parties within thirty (30) days of the execution of this contract and shall serve for a minimum of one (1) year from the date of selection. At that time the parties may choose to re-appoint the Hearing Officer or select a different Hearing Officer who will also serve for a minimum of one (1) year from date of selection.
Hearings. The Hearing Officer shall hold hearings on a quarterly basis unless there are no appeals to hear or the parties agree to pend any open appeals. All materials considered in the position review shall be submitted to the Hearing Officer prior to the hearing and neither party will submit evidence at the hearing that was not submitted during the position review. The Hearing Officer shall endeavor to hold multiple hearings each day, and shall issue a concise decision which shall be final and binding. The Hearing Officer shall have no authority to alter the terms and conditions of this contract. Employees may be represented at the hearing and will be released from work with no loss of pay to attend the hearing. The Hearing Officer's fees and expenses shall be shared equally by the parties.
ARTICLE 15	- TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT AND TEMPORARY APPOINTMENT
15.1	To a Higher Position. The employing official may temporarily assign a regular monthly employee the duties and responsibilities of a higher-level class for up to one (1) year. Such appointments shall be made in increments of no more than six (6) months.
The employee shall be paid at the salary step which represents at least a two (2) step increase over the present salary. Such increase shall be effective the first day of the assignment when approved as higher level duties and responsibilities by the Director of Human Resources Operations.
15.2	Other Assignments. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, duties assigned an employee shall be consistent with the overall class concept of the employee's job classification.
15.3	Temporary Appointment. Temporary appointment may be made only to (a) perform work in the absence of an employee on leave for more than
28
six (6) consecutive months or (b) perform work which roes not exceed one thousand fifty (1050) hours in any twelve (12) c<: nsecutive month period. At the conclusion of a temporary appointment a permanent employee shall have the right to revert to his/her former position or to an equivalent position. No temporary appointment shall t ?ke the place of employees laid-off due to lack of work or lack of funds.
15.4	Fixed (Duration Appointments. Appointments for a fixed Juration may be made for assignments initially intended to be for more tt in one thousand fifty (1050) hours, but for no more than twelve (12) consecutive months. Consecutive appointments that total more than twelve '!2) consecutive months will not be made for the same assignment. 7 e filling of fixed duration appointments will be determined by the Unive sity. Individuals hired under this section will receive written notification of the maximum length of the appointment and the eligibility for benefits. Conclusion of the appointment will be at the discretion of the University, including termination of appointment prior to its originally intende; expiration date, and will not be subject to Articles 4 (Grievance Procedure) and 17 (Seniority, Layoff, Rehire) of the contract. Fixed dural ;>n appointments will not be made to replace current employees or to de the work of any employee who has been laid off. Fixed duration appoii tments may only be used to fill leave-of-absences and/or temporary proje :ts; they may not be used to fill permanent positions. Time worked in a fixed duration appointment will count towards seniority for employees v, ho are appointed to a regular monthly position represented by SEIU, Local 925 without a break in service. Employees on a fixed duration apf. ointment will be considered non-bargaining unit applicants when app ying for regular monthly bargaining unit positions.
(a)	An individual appointed to a Fixed Duration Appoint! :em who is hired into the same job, in the same unit through open reci fitment will have their Fixed Duration Appointment months of service a iply toward their probationary period for that position.
(b)	Employees recruited into positions under section (a) 1 .'ho have worked in the Fixed Duration Appointment six (6) months c' longer will be considered to have completed their probationary period ind all months of service under that Fixed Duration Appointment (includin' j extensions) will count toward their seniority.
ARTICLE 16	- PROBATIONARY PERIOD
16.1	Definition. The probationary period is the initial six (6) month period of employment in a class following appointment of ,: nonpermanent employee. Permanent employees at the University of Washington shall
29
not be required to complete another probationary period. Any paid or unpaid leave taken during the probationary period will extend the period for an amount of time equal to the leave. Weekends and holidays will count in the calculation of the length of probationary period extensions. By mutual agreement, the probationary period for selected classes may be established for a period in excess of six (6) months but not to exceed twelve (12) months.
Employees in probationary status will earn seniority from their initial date of hire but may not exercise seniority rights until completion of the probationary period. Probationary employees are not eligible for layoff or rehire rights.
16.2	Probationary Period Rejection. An appointing authority may reject an employee who has not completed a probationary period. Upon request by the employee, a meeting to explain such action shall be held with a representative of the Employer. At the employee's request a representative of the Union shall attend such meetings. Such rejection is not subject to Article 4 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17	- SENIORITY, LAYOFF, REHIRE
17.1	Seniority. Seniority is defined as the continuous length of service in calendar days with the University from the most recent date of hire. Service of less than full time shall be considered full time. Time spent on leave of absence without pay or on layoff shall not be included in computing seniority except for cyclic year positions, but does not constitute a break in service. Permanent employees who are veterans or their unmarried widows/widowers shall have added to their seniority the veteran's active military service to a maximum of five (5) years credit.
Seniority shall be lost following an employee's resignation, termination for cause, failure to return from a leave of absence, failure to accept two (2) full recall offers (offers for the same pay, FTE status and shift as the position from which the employee was laid off), or expiration of rehire rights.
Employees who enter into the bargaining unit from other positions at the University of Washington shall be credited with layoff seniority for all seniority earned in the State classified service while employed at the University. Employees who enter into the bargaining unit from other state agencies and institutions of higher education, shall earn layoff seniority from the first day of coverage under the collective bargaining agreement. Seniority for benefit accrual purposes shall include all time credited to the employee up to the date of entering into the bargaining unit. Unused sick
30
and vacation leave credits of permanent status em iloyees changing employment between bargaining unit and non-bargair rig unit positions shall move with the employee.
17.2	(a) Layoff and Rehire. Whenever it becomes necessary for the University to reduce its workforce due to a lack of work, lack of funds or reorganization, the University shall use the following procedure in determining which employees shall be laid off. The University shall not lay off bargaining unit employees in lieu of disciplinary actic -i. The University shall make a concerted effort to re-employ bargaining onit members on the rehire list. Bargaining unit members on the rehire list are eligible to take all Computing & Communications and Training & Development courses on a space available basis upon payment of der ignated fees.
(b)	Layoff. The University shall, with a copy to the I nion. identify the positions to be abolished and the employee(s) to be uffected and shall notify employees in these positions not less than twenty ;20) working days prior to the abolishment of the positions, pay the employee in lieu of notice, or combine pay and notice. The notice shall inch tie:
1.	The effective date of the layoff and a reference to the employee's rights under this Article,
2.	The opportunity to replace the most junior err ployee within the layoff/seniority unit in an FTE status within ?. FTE of the FTE status of the person in the position being abolished (e.g. .& FTE position being abolished incumbent cigible to replace individual in a .6-1.0 FTE position) a' d in the same classification as the individual(s) whose p< sition(s) is being abolished and if the individual whose insition is being abolished possesses the essential skills (defined as the minimum qualifications listed in the job description for the classification and any specific position requirements) to perform the most junior employee’s positir. ). II there is no opportunity for the person in the position t :;ing abolished to replace another employee within .2 FTl and within the layoff/seniority unit, the employee shall have a right to bump the most junior employee in a position with < Iowst FTE status than their own within the layoff/seniority unit.
In accordance with (b) (2) above, if the incumbent in a position to be abolished has an opportun :y to replace the most junior employee within the layoff/seniority unit, the incumbent will be given up to three (3) working days to determine if he/she wants to replace the juni ir employee or be placed on the rehire list. Vacant por lions within the
31
layoff/seniority unit will be considered a more junior position than any occupied by an incumbent. Employees shall have no bumping rights per Article 17 within six (6) months from the effective date of a Final Counseling action plan.
(c)	FTE Reduction. An employee in a position that is not abolished but is reduced in FTE status and who will remain benefit eligible after the reduction will have the choice of staying in the reduced position and going on the rehire list for the position and FTE status held by the employee immediately prior to the reduction or exercising available layoff rights under 17.2(b). The employee must exercise this choice within three (3) working days of the reduction notice.
(d)	Rehire. Employees identified for layoff will be placed on an eligible rehire list(s) designated by the employee for twenty four (24) months. In addition to the rehire list for the classification and FTE status from which the employee was laid off, employees identified for layoff may be on the following rehire lists:
1.	For positions of a lower FTE status in the classification from which the employee was laid off;
2.	For positions in other classifications in which the employee previously held permanent status; and,
3.	Lower classes in a series under 1 and 2 above.
The University will refer an employee from the designated rehire list(s) for any open positions in the bargaining unit for which the laid off employee possesses the essential skills. Employees referred from the rehire list(s) who possess the essential skills needed for a vacant position will be offered the position prior to the University offering it to any other applicant. The two (2) most senior employees on a rehire list(s) who possess the essential skills needed for a vacant position will be referred and the Employer will offer the position to either of those employees. Job requests for positions for which there are employees on rehire list(s) may not be withdrawn solely to avoid hiring laid-off employees.
The Employer shall provide copies of rehire lists to the Union on a quarterly basis, or more frequently pursuant to a request by the Union.
(e)	Rehire Trial Period. Employees placed into vacant positions from the rehire list will serve a three (3) month rehire trial period. During the rehire trial period either party may, at its sole discretion and without resort to the grievance procedure, initiate return to the rehire list. Time spent in a rehire trial period will not count toward the twenty four (24)
32
month rehire list period. The three (3) month rehire 1 .al period will be adjusted to reflect any paid or unpaid leave taken durii g the period.
(f)	Removal from List. Removal from the rehire list(s) wil occur for any of the following circumstances:
1.	If placement does not occur within twenty fen. r (24) months,
2.	If the employee refuses two (2) offers of placement for a position having the same pay, FTE status and shift as the position from which the employee was laid < -If,
3.	If the employee was placed into two (2) va ;ant positions for which the employee has failed to complelj the rehire trail period,
4.	If the employee accepts any offer of placement from any rehire list and completes the rehire trial service period,
5.	Employees who reject one (1) offer of placement from a list for a position of a lower FTE status than that which the employee held immediately prior to layoff will be removed from that list,
6.	Employees who reject one (1) offer of placement from a list for a position in a classification other thar that from which the employee was laid off will be removed from that list.
(g)	Benefits and Temporary Services. Employees on the rehire list who follow the rules prescribed by Temporary Services wil1 be given priority to referral to temporary positions and can receive employer paid health benefit coverage if they meet the eligibility requiremei its as determined by the state.
(h)	Rehire Wages and Increment Date. When employees are rehired from layoff status the periodic increment date and annual k ave accrual date will be re-established and extended by an amount ol time in calendar days equal to the period of time spent on the rehire lis prior to rehire.
Employees placed from the rehire list into position, s with the same salary range held at the time of layoff shall be placed at the same step in the range held at the time of layoff. Employees placed from the rehire list into positions with a lower salary range thai held at the time of layoff shall be placed in a salary step nearest to, rut not in excess of, the salary held at time of layoff.
(i) Rehire List Crossover. Employees within a SIEIU, Local 925 represented bargaining unit may, in accordance wir this Article, be placed on the rehire list for positions in another -EIU, Local 925 represented bargaining unit.
33
17.3 Affirmative action goals may be considered at any point during the layoff or rehire process.
ARTICLE 18	- CORRECTIVE ACTION/DISMISSAL
18.1	The parties will follow the "Corrective Action/Dismissal Process" outlined below. No employee shall be subject to the process except for just cause. The process will be considered to incorporate the concept of progressive action while providing a positive method for improvement rather than punitive action. The University will determine the specific step at which the process begins based on the nature and severity of the problem.
18.2	Corrective Action/Dismissal Process. The University will make clear when formal or final counseling is being conducted.
Informal Counseling - Informal discussion or counseling between employee and immediate supervisor. Supervisor will follow-up in writing which will include simple action plan, if necessary.
Formal Counseling - Formal counseling (may involve administrative personnel other than the employee's immediate supervisor) including the development of a written action plan. The action plan will identify specific problem areas, performance objectives, suggestions for remedying, and a timeframe for improvement.
Final Counseling - Final counseling (may involve administration other than the employee's immediate supervisor) including action plan discussion and revision, where appropriate. A decision-making period of one (1) day of paid time away from the work site for the employee to consider the consequences of failure to follow the action plan may be used at this step. If the Employer decides to provide a decision-making day, the employee will be given a list of expectations and problem statements prior to the day taking place.
Dismissal - Prior to dismissal, a pre-determination meeting will be scheduled to give an employee an opportunity to make his/her case before the final decision is made. The employee has the right to have a Union representative present at the pre-determination meeting.
Demotion - When mutually agreed, demotion may be considered at any step of the Process.
18.3	Grievability/Arbitrability. Informal counseling may not be grieved. Formal counseling may be grieved through Step Two of the grievance procedure
34
only. Final counseling and dismissal may be grieved thrc gh every step of the grievance procedure beginning at Step Two.
18.4	Representation, Employees shall be notified orally or in writing that upon request they shall be entitled to have a representative pre iient when formal counseling, final counseling or dismissal is occurring. E r iployees have a right to a meeting with management whenever corrective action is issued. Attendance of a representative shall not delay the dir ::iplinary process unduly as determined by the Employer. All parties shall "lake every effort possible to allow for Union representation without un '.ily delaying the process.
ARTICLE 19	- EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
19.1	Performance evaluations shall be performed at least ann; =iliy. Evaluations shall be based on job related performance factor.!' Performance evaluations shall not be used to initiate personnel action; such as transfer, promotions or corrective disciplinary action, however evaluations may serve as supporting documentation for personnel aclions. Employee participation in the development of evaluation materials ;nd rating factors is encouraged.
19.2	Evaluation Forms.
(a)	Performance evaluation forms will at a minimum have;
(1)	A description of the job related factors upon which the evaluation is based. These will include:
i.	quality of work (e.g competence, act .iracy, neatness, thoroughness);
ii.	quantity of work (e.g. use of time, volume of work accomplished, ability to meet scheci. les, productivity levels);
iii.	job knowledge (e.g. degree of technical knowledge, understanding of job procedures and me1 hods);
iv.	working relationships (e.g. cooperation rod ability to work with supervisor, co-workers, students, ai id clients served);
v.	supervisory skills (e g. training and direr ing subordinates, delegation, evaluating subordinates, planning and organizing work, problem solving, decis :>n making ability, ability to communicate).
(2)	Provision for identifying specific achievements of the employee, performance goals for the next evaluation period, training and development plans and other comments.
(3)	Provision for employee comments.
35
(4)	Provision for employee signature accompanied by a statement that "Employee signature means that the employee has seen and is aware of the content of the evaluation, but does not necessarily mean that the employee agrees with the evaluation content."
(5)	Provision for the evaluator and reviewer signatures, and reviewer comments.
(b)	The performance evaluation form may be supplemented with other forms and/or information used to support the employee's evaluation. Upon request, an employee may review any written materials used by supervision to prepare the evaluation.
19.3	Employee Evaluation Information.
(a)	Upon appointment to a position the employee's supervisor will provide the employee with a copy of:
(1)	the class specification for the position;
(2)	the position's job duties.
(b)	Written performance expectations shall be provided to the employee in sufficient time to allow the employee to meet the work expectations (normally within sixty (60) calendar days after appointment to the position). The Employer will provide at least sixty (60) calendar days notice to employees prior to the evaluation when modifications that substantively alter performance expectations are made. Minor modifications that do not substantively alter performance expectations require no notice.
19.4	Evaluation Process.
(a)	The supervisor will communicate with the employee about performance problems as they occur.
(b)	The purpose of the evaluation meeting is to review, discuss, and if appropriate, modify the evaluation. The employee shall have an opportunity to discuss the proposed evaluation with the evaluator and to provide a written response.
(c)	A copy of the completed form, signed by all appropriate individuals, will be provided to the employee upon request.
(d)	Performance evaluations shall be retained in the departmental file for no more than three (3) years.
(e)	The evaluation shall be reviewed and signed by the employee's second level of supervision or management designee.
19.5	Evaluator Training. The Employer shall make available training opportunities for evaluators regarding the Employer's performance
36
evaluation program and shall, upon request, share md discuss the contents of such training programs with the Union.
19.6	Grievability. Employee performance evaluations ar: grievable only through Step Two of the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE 20	- EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
20.1	Policy. The Employer reaffirms its commitment to an oi i-going system of staff development and training. Employer shall main! iin an employee training and development plan. The objective of this nlan shall be to provide opportunity for the development of the potential occupational and professional ability of each employee in order to (1) neet institutional needs, (2) to make the most effective and economic . se of employee resources in accomplishing institutional goals, and ^3) to enhance employee's career advancement opportunities.
20.2	The University shall annually provide a list of job classit nations reflecting the number of regular monthly positions and number :illed in the past calendar year. This information shall be on file in ttm Recruiting and Candidate Services Office and the respective area H .man Resources Offices.
20.3	Training and Development Task Teams and Committees The Union shall be invited to designate an employee representative to participate in each University Training and Development task team and committee convened to address topics relevant to the bargaining unit. Such tr oics may include career advancement, career paths, potential training ne .rds and courses, and program crediting in the employment process. Task teams and committees shall be chaired by the Training and Develop nent Manager or designee. Employee representatives shall be grante< release time to attend task team and committee meetings which are :onducted during regular business hours.
20.4	Information. The Employer shall, upon written request, i trovicle the Union with copies of the institution's training and developer nt plan and the annual report of the achievement of training objectives.
20.5	Training and Development Programs. It is intended thri' supervisors will encourage employees to participate in the vario is training and development programs as provided for by Executive Ori :er 52 in order to maximize their job performance and to increase i reir promotional opportunities.
37
When the Employing Official requires an employee to acquire new skills the supervisor will identify appropriate sources of training and provide training in accordance with 20.8.
20.6	Release Time. Release time for training for employees accepted for training and development programs shall be in accordance with Executive Order 52.
20.7	Completion of Training Programs. Completion of training programs will be considered in evaluating the employee's application for transfer or promotion when certification of completion has been indicated by the employee. The Employer will review courses offered through Training and Development, Computing and Communications, and the Women's Information Center in order to identify courses which satisfy requirements for regular monthly staff positions. The Employer will determine the amount of credit appropriate to the training course(s).
Crediting of completed training programs towards minimum qualifications shall be determined by the Employer. Currently, successful completion of the Fiscal Management Certificate Series is equivalent to six (6) months of budget/fiscal experience and successful completion of the Supervisory Certificate Series is equivalent to six (6) months of supervisory experience.
20.8	Tuition Payment and Travel Cost Reimbursement. If a supervisor requires an employee to receive training all fees and related costs will be paid by the employing department. If attendance in such courses requires use of the employee’s personal vehicle, the employee will be reimbursed at the University’s travel rates applying at the time. If other transportation must be taken, the employee will be reimbursed for all transportation costs. Required attendance in courses which are outside of regular working hours and which are work related or meet an identified institutional need is considered "paid time training" and constitutes time worked.
20.9	Training - Layoff. Employees on layoff status shall be eligible to participate on a space available basis in regularly scheduled Training and Development programs.
ARTICLE 21	- TUITION EXEMPTION PROGRAM
21.1	In addition to those noncredit programs offered by the Training and Development Office, eligible employees may participate in the University's tuition exemption program as authorized by applicable state law and University policy set forth in the Administrative Policy Statements 22.1. Subject to operational needs and management discretion, supervisors will
38
make a good faith effort to allow the use of flex time foi employees who wish to take a class during their scheduled shift.
21.2	Release Time and Fees. When an employee is requirec. to take a tuition exempt class by the Employer, associated expenses and release time will be provided per Article 20.8.
ARTICLE 22	- PROMOTIONS/TRANSFERS
22.1	Policy. It is the policy of the University to encourage job i dvancement and promote from within. It is the responsibility of each employee seeking promotion or transfer to provide the Employer with com Jete information regarding the employee's skills and qualifications relative to the position sought. The Employer will make the application process, necessary submittals and the essential skills of the vacant position clear to prospective applicants.
22.2	Definitions. For the purpose of this Article the following d'i 'initions apply:
Promotion - Movement to a position with a different cla isification with a higher salary maximum.
Transfer - Movement to a position with the same salary rr aximum or same classification.
Voluntary Demotion - Movement to a position with a lower salary maximum, where the position is attained through the emp oyment process. This section does not apply to employees who demote as the result of corrective action.
22.3	Notice that applications are being accepted for vacan bargaining unit positions will be published by the Employer and will be made available in places intended to reach bargaining unit employees for a minimum of seven (7) days prior to the closing of the application period. The University may limit the scope of the posting area if appli ;ations only from within the posting area are accepted.
22.4	The Employer will determine if applicants possess th* essential skills required of the position. Essential skills are the minim jiti qualifications listed in the job description for the classification and any specific position requirements. The Employer will refer all current bargaining unit applicants possessing the essential skills prior to reluming any non-bargaining unit applicants. Where the skills, abilities ai d experience of the vacant position applicants are considered equal, tl e Employer will offer the position to a bargaining unit applicant. In accordance with
39
applicable law, affirmative action goals will be considered when filling vacancies.
At least one (1) bargaining unit applicant per job requisition, who is a regular monthly employee and who possesses the essential skills, shall be among those granted an interview for bargaining unit positions. Which bargaining unit applicant(s) the Employer chooses to interview shall not be grievable. On or after July 1, 2008 either party may notify the other in writing that they wish to discontinue this agreement related to guaranteed interviews for bargaining unit applicants.
22.5	Applicants from within the bargaining unit determined not to possess the essential skills for the vacant position may seek a non-grievable review of the assessment through the Human Resources Office. Applicants from the bargaining unit who possess the essential skills but are not offered the position may request an explanation, written or oral, as to why the position was not offered.
22.6	Movement between positions will comply with the following:
Local 925 to Local 925 - During the first six (6) weeks of a new appointment employees who transfer, promote or voluntarily demote within a Local 925 bargaining unit may opt to return to the position they left as long as it is still available; or employees who do not meet supervisory expectations may be reassigned to the previous position. For employees who transfer or voluntarily demote, if the former position is no longer available, the employee may be reassigned in the same classification or be placed on the rehire list. Promotional employees have preemptive rights to their former position, if the position still exists even if it has been filled. Paid or unpaid leave taken during the six (6) week trial service period shall extend the length of the trial service period by the amount of paid or unpaid leave taken.
Non-Local 925 Classified to Local 925 - Employees who transfer, promote, or voluntarily demote from a UW non-Local 925 position to a Local 925 position will be granted a six (6) week leave of absence without pay for the purpose of serving a six (6) week trial period. During the first six (6) weeks of the new appointment either the employee or the supervisor may end the appointment by providing notice to the employing official. The employee will be returned to the same position or a comparable position in the same class. This notice must be given prior to the end of the six (6) week trial period. For a brief time following the expiration of the six (6) week period, due to operational necessity, the employer may retain the employee in the position. Paid or unpaid leave taken during the six (6) week trial service period shall extend the length of the trial service period
40
by the amount of paid or unpaid leave taken. The six (i ) week leave of absence period will not be extended.
Local 925 to Non-Local 925 Classified - Local 925 emplo ,ees who accept a non-Local 925 appointment at the UW will be grantei I a six (6) week leave of absence without pay from ttie Local 925 posil ;in. Employees who accept a non-Local 925 position will serve a probai onary period in accordance with the rules governing that non-Local 925 classified position. During the first six (6) weeks of the new appointment, eitl er the employee or the supervisor may end the new appointment by provh :tng notice to the employing official. The employee will be returned to the same position or a comparable position in the same class. This notice mi st be given prior to the end of the six (6) week trial period. For a brief t "ie following the expiration of the six (6) week period, due to operational necessity, the employer rnay retain the employee in the position. Be rond this six (6) week timeframe, the employee will be subject to the applicable rules governing that non-Local 925 classified position.
22.7	Employees shall receive reasonable paid release time 1 ;r job interviews (which may include sitting for an examination) at the Univi rsity. Such time must be approved in advance by the supervisor subjei : to unit staffing needs.
ARTICLE 23	- HEALTH AND SAFETY
23.1	F3olicies. It is the Employer's intern: to make reason able and proper provisions for the maintenance of appropriate standari. s of health and safety within the workplace. The Employer shall complwith applicable Federal and State health and safety legislation and reg Nations and has designated the University's Environmental Health anci Safety (EH&S) Department to advise and monitor compliance with such ; tandards.
When it is established through medical documentation that a disabling condition or physical limitation prohibits continued per!ormance of the employee's assigned duties, the employer will attem it to assist the employee through reassignment, transfer, or reconfiguration of job duties.
Employees who believe that working conditions present a hazard to their health should first alert their supervisor. All employees a e encouraged to contact Environmental Health and Safety to report haza dous conditions. If a supervisor or Environmental Health and Safety declai es a work site to be hazardous and unfit for work, affected employees ma; be assigned to alternative work sites until the hazardous condition s rectified. If assignment to an alternative work site is not possible ai d the supervisor decides to send the employees home, those employee ; sent home will
41
receive their regular pay for all time the employee is scheduled to work on the day of the incident. For all subsequent days the employee(s) may use accrued leave as appropriate.
23.2	Health Examinations. The Employer shall provide at no cost to the employee, such medical tests or health examinations as may be required as a condition of employment.
23.3	Safety. All work shall be performed in conformity with applicable safety standards. Employees are encouraged to immediately report any unsafe working conditions to their supervisor. No employee shall be disciplined for reporting any such condition nor be required to work or to operate equipment when he/she has reasonable grounds to believe such action would result in immediate danger to life or safety until the condition has been reviewed by a Union Steward and a higher level of supervision. If the matter is not resolved satisfactorily, the supervisor or employee may request a decision from the University's Department of Environmental Health and Safety or the Department of Labor and Industries.
23.4	Safety Committees. Bargaining unit employees shall be appropriately represented on any organizational health and safety committees for areas in which they are employed, as detailed in Administrative Policy Statements 10.11. Any department or unit committee also dealing with health and safety issues in work areas shall appropriately involve bargaining unit employees. It shall also be appropriate for either party to raise health and safety concerns at the Joint Union/Management Committee.
23.5	Ergonomics. The Employer shall maintain a separate section in the Administrative Policy Statements that reference the ergonomic requirements of WAC 296-62-051. Further ergonomic guidelines shall be referenced on the Environmental Health and Safety department website www.ehs.washington.edu.
23.6	Workplace Review. The parties recognize that there are several elements in a work site which may affect individual health, comfort and productivity. The Employer shall conduct routine hazard assessments of any worksite that may contain health hazards as required by WAC. The Employer shall provide awareness education to help reduce identified hazards. Employees may also request a workplace review by the employing department and employees shall be given the results of the review.
42
ARTICLE 24	- RECORDS
24.1	Vacation/Sick Leave. Each department will keep vacation and sick leave records and make them available to employees upon req . nst.
24.2	Bargaining Unit. A current list of names, classifications, i-.nd departments of all bargaining unit employees will be provided annual. to the Union at cost.
24.3	Personnel File. Upon written request by an employee to 1 heir area Human Resources Office (official personnel file) or depa tment manager (departmental file), the employee or employee's represe." :ative shall have access to the employee's official or departmental person?! file for review. Upon the employee's request, the employee may recei e copies of any materials in the file (requests for reasonable numbers ;:f copies will be provided at no cost to the employee; employees may be charged a fee for requests for large numbers of copies). Prior to such review the Director or designee may remove any letters of reference whicl were obtained through assurances of confidentiality to a third party. Such letters shall only be used for the purposes of hiring and/or promotionsii application.
Employees shall be provided a copy of all adverse material placed in the official file at the time the material is included in the file.
(a)	Information shall be retained as tong as it has a reasonable bearing on the employee's job performan.ee or upon the efficient and effective management of the institution.
Adverse material or information related to employee misconduct or alleged misconduct which is determined to be fa i;e and all such information in situations where the employee ias been fully exonerated of wrong doing shall be promptly destroy ::d.
(b)	Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, ai institution may retain information relating to employee miscor.'.uct or alleged misconduct, if:
(1)	The employee requests that the information be etairied; or
(2)	The information is related to pending legal actior or legal actions may reasonable be expected to result.
The employee shall have the right to have placed in his/h ir own personnel file a statement of rebuttal or correction of information cc itained in the file within a reasonable period of time after the employee be* omes aware that the information has been placed in the file.
43
24.4	Request for Information. The Employer shall make available to the Union, upon written request, records and reports regarding personnel issues, such as home addresses, employment date and reclassification requests, concerning those classifications in the bargaining units, provided that this shall not require the Employer to disclose any records not subject to disclosure under the Public Disclosure Act of the State of Washington or to maintain or assemble any data which it would not otherwise assemble for its own use. Information shall be provided electronically where feasible.
ARTICLE 25	- TRAVEL PAY AND WORK TIME
25.1	General. Any employee required to travel to a place of work other than his/her regular official duty station shall be reimbursed for travel costs if eligible, in accordance with University of Washington Administrative Policy Statements, Section 70.
25.2	Work Time and Compensation.
(a)	When employees are required to report for work to their official duty station before traveling to a temporary official duty station, work time computation shall commence at the time of reporting to the regular official duty station.
(b)	When employees are required to travel on a nonscheduled work day they shall be paid in accordance with Article 8 and University policy. For purposes of determining hours of work, the work day shall commence at the time the employee leaves his/her official duty station and end upon arrival at the temporary duty station. The employee's domicile shall be his/her official work station when travel commences from that location if less than time calculation from the official duty station.
ARTICLE 26	- POLICIES
26.1	Contracting Out. The University will not contract out work which results in the layoff of bargaining unit employees who are employed prior to the time of the execution or renewal of the contract. The University will provide the Union thirty (30) calendar days notice prior to the implementation of any contract allowed under this Article.
26.2	Union Access. Upon prior notification to management, authorized Union staff representatives shall be permitted to enter the Employer's premises and facilities at reasonable times for the purpose of representing
44
employees in personnel matters consistent with the Unior 's certification as exclusive bargaining representative. It is understood th;:i. any such visits which require a meeting with an employee will be jstricted to the nonworking time of the employee unless otherwise authorized by management or provided for elsewhere in this Agreemei tT and that there will be no interference with an employee's work assignme 1 >t.
26.3	Assignment of Additional Duties. An employee whc is permanently assigned the duties of a position vacated by attrition layoff, or other reasons, in addition to his or her job duties, shall have ie right to meet with his or her supervisor to discuss the situation. If t1 =! initial meeting between the supervisor and the employee does not resu in a satisfactory conclusion, the employee may request a subsequent meeting which a representative of the Union may attend.
26.4	Personal Services. It is inappropriate and contrary to Ui versify policy to assign any employee coffee making, related food servic; duties, or other tasks of a personal nature. The exception is when si ::h an activity is based on a bona fide departmental recuirement.
26.5	Uniforms Requirement. Uniforms required to be worn Hy the employee shall be provided and replaced by the Employer at the Employer's expense. The maintenance of uniforms shall be the ret lonsibility of the employee. Prior to any decision by a department h<i ad to purchase uniforms, employees in their respective departments si all be given an opportunity to consult with their department head regard ig the color and style of uniform to be worn. The department head >vill give serious consideration to the wishes of the employees in making a Jecision.
26.6	Legislative Briefings. The Union President or designee nail be invited to attend legislative briefings conducted by the Employer.
26.7	Child Care. As a major employer, the University of Washington recognizes that the family life of its employees has a ; gnificant impact upon their work lives. The Employer currently sponsors d lycare within the community, subsidizes care for mildly ill children (as defied in 10.4), and funds a position for coordinating child care services. The Employer will notify the Union so that the Union may have an cppoi .inity to provide input prior to any University action being taken to rr :>dify child care programs which are currently being sponsored by the Unii'ersity.
Information regarding availability of resources to facilitate employee child care is available in the Reference Stations and/or the W ;rkOe Services office.
45
Other articles in this Agreement which address child care and parenting needs include Article 8.14 (Alternative Work Schedules), Article 10.1 (Sick Leave) and Article 12 (Leave of Absence).
26.8	Resignation. An employee has the right to withdraw his/her resignation within twenty four (24) hours, excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays, after submitting the resignation. Employees may only withdraw one resignation per position held. The Employer may permit withdrawal of a resignation at any time.
ARTICLE 27	- FACILITIES
27.1	Meeting Facilities. The Union shall be permitted to use the Employer's facilities for meetings provided advance notice is given to the Employer, appropriate space is available on the date requested, and meetings are held in accordance with the Employer's policy on this subject.
27.2	Bulletin Boards.
(a)	Space shall be made available to the Union on bulletin boards in those areas where bargaining unit members work or frequent, for the posting of notices and information pertaining to official business of the Union. Such posted material is to be signed by a Union representative.
(b)	If it is established that adequate space is not available at a convenient location, the Union may provide for and have installed a bulletin board at its own expense, provided the size and location of said bulletin board shall be mutually agreeable to the Union representative and the Employer.
27.3	Employee Facilities.
Restrooms and attendant facilities shall be provided as required by the State of Washington Department of Labor and Industries. Dressing rooms and/or lockers shall be provided to employees in those classifications where a change of clothing is required by the Employer.
The adequacy of employee facilities, including sanitary supply dispensers for female employees, shall be a proper subject for discussion by the Joint Union-Management Committee.
46
ARTICLE 28	- JOINT UNION-MANAGEMENT COMP TTEE
20.1	Committee Purpose and Membership. A Joint Ur : on-Management Committee is established to provide a forum for commui ications between the two (2) parties and to deal with matters of genera Union/Employer concern. The committee's function will be limited to an idvisory capacity and shall not include any decision-making or collective bargaining authority.
Committee membership shall consist of three (3) bargaining unit employees and a Union staff representative and fc (4) Employer representatives io include the Associate Director for L- ibor Relations or designee.
The Employer will discuss with representatives of the Jnion significant changes affecting institutional conditions of emplc /ment generally affecting bargaining unit employees sufficiently in advance of Ihe targeted implementation date of said changes so that reasc lable alternative proposals can be adequately considered by the Joint Ur ;on-Management Committee. Diversity, child care and tuition exemption shall be considered appropriate subjects for the Joint Ur lon-Management Committee.
28.2	Meetings. Committee meetings may be requested 17 an authorized representative of either party. Requests for a quarterly Meeting shall be honored; however, once convened, the committee may n net more or less frequently as mutually agreed between the parties.
At least one (1) week's notice shall be given to members of any agreed upon meeting and the agenda. Committee meetings snail normally be held during University business hours and at a mutuall / agreeable time and date. Employee members shall experience no li ss in salary for meeting participation; however, meeting times are not a mstrued as work time and no overtime shall be claimed or paid for it .etings attended outside the employee members' regular working hours.
28.3	Limitations. Committee meeting topics shall be limite l to subjects of group rather than individual concern, and the committee uhall not discuss grievances properly processed under Article 4 of the Agr lemenl. Further, it is not intended that this Article ooligate in any wa ; either party to negotiate on personnel matters covered in this Agreemer t or to alter, limit, restrict, or reduce prerogatives of either party otherwise provided in this Agreement.
47
ARTICLE 29	- CONTRACT DISTRIBUTION
29.1	The University and the Union shall share the cost of printing the Agreement for present and new employees in the bargaining units.
29.2	Distribution.
(a)	The employer shall include a copy of the Agreement at each Reference Station and shall provide a copy to new employees in the bargaining unit.
(b)	The Union shall provide a copy of the Agreement to present employees in the bargaining units. The Employer shall allow distribution through campus mail.
29.3	New Employees
(a)	The Employer shall provide to the Union, at least monthly, a list of new employees in the bargaining units, including the employee's name, classification, department, and mail stop.
(b)	The Employer will distribute to each new employee in the bargaining units, with a copy of this Agreement, a letter from the Union. Such letter will be provided to the Employer by the Union and the contents of the letter shall be mutually agreeable.
(c)	A bargaining unit member designated by the Union shall be granted paid release time to attend new employee orientation and/or new employee coffee hours scheduled by the University. Such release time will be subject to the operational needs of the department.
ARTICLE 30	- COMPENSATION
30.1	Upon promotion or reclassification from a Local 925 position to another Local 925 position with a higher salary range, the affected employee shall be placed on the salary step of the new range which reflects a minimum of a three (3) step increase. The new periodic increment date shall be the first of the current month for effective dates falling between the first and fifteenth of the month and the first of the following month for effective dates falling between the sixteenth and the end of the month.
30.2	An employee occupying a position that is reclassified to an existing class with a lower salary range shall be placed in the salary step in the new range which is closest to the current salary, provided such salary does not exceed the top step of the new salary range.
48
30.3	Salary Schedules
(a)	The salary schedules shall be incorporated into thii Agreement as Appendices IV and V.
(b)	All schedules will contain two Career Enhancements, irowth steps as described in Section 30.8.
30.4	Employees shall continue to receive increment increases ; i the rate of two (2) steps each twelve (12) months unless they are newly ' lired at Step A, in which case they will receive a two (2) step increase a six (6) months then two (2) steps annually thereafter. Employees on Ihe Health Care Range receive increment increases at the rate of one (1) < tep each twelve (12) months except employees starting at step A progresi to step B after six (6) months. The University, at its discretion, may ap :rove additional increment increases at any time. Such additional increme t increases will not change an employee's periodic increment date.
30.5	The University and the Union affirm their commitment to he principles of comparable worth by implementing any state-mandated c< mparable worth adjustments.
30.6	Health Benefits. For the life of the Agreement, bargaining unit members shall be governed by the results of healthcare coalition bargaining, per RCW 41,80.020, with respect to health insurance benefits md premiums.
1)	The Employer will contribute an amount equal to eighty-eight percent (88%) of the total weighted average of lie health care premium for each bargaining unit employee eligib a for insurance each month, as determined by the Public Emp oyees Benefits Board annually for benefits in calendar year 2001: and calendar year 2009, respectively.
2)	The Employer will pay the entire premium costs for :ach bargaining unit employee for basic life, basic long-term disal lity and dental insurance coverage.
3)	The Employer will participate in tne State of Washington's set aside of $20,000,000 in the public employees’ and retirees' insurance account to be used only for the benefit of the Employer and proportionately for represented and non-represenfc :1 employees in the event the health care costs increase more । tan the trends assumed under this Agreement ; and this account vill not be used
49
to expand benefits or to reduce the average employee share of medical insurance premium cost for the total weighted average of th§ health care premium to less than twelve percent (12%).
30.7	Parking/lj-Pass. The Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement, the University may apply changes in transportation policy, including adjusting parking and U-pass fees and criteria for assigning parking spots, to the bargaining unit without the obligation to bargain with the Union. The Union may raise issues and concerns at Joint Labor/Management Committee meetings or at ad hoc Labor Management Committee. The Union shall have a standing seat on the University’s committees that work on transportation and parking issues.
30.8	Career Enhancement/Growth Program. The University will continue its Career Enhancement/Growth Program. The program will reward employees whose development of skills, increased productivity, or assumption of higher level duties results in service enhancements or efficiencies for the department in which the employee works.
Steps N & 0 (Appendix IV - Pay Table 84) and Steps R & S (Appendix V - Pay Table B7) will be attained solely through the Career Enhancement/Growth Program and will not be based on length of service.
Employees in every classification covered by this Agreement will be eligible for the program. Employees are eligible to receive a Career Enhancement/Growth step any time after they have been at the last automatic increment step in their pay range for a minimum of one (1) year. Employees are eligible for the second Career Enhancement/Growth step beginning one (1) year after receiving the previous step.
There will be no minimum or maximum number of employees who may receive Career Enhancement/Growth steps. There will be no minimum or maximurn amount of money the University will spend on the Career Enhancement/Growth program. Decisions about Career Enhancement/ Growth steps shall be made within sixty (60) days of supervisory/managerial recommendations.
The Career Enhancement/Growth program will not be a substitute for reclassifications. Reclassifications will take priority over receiving Career Enhancement/Growth steps such that if an employee qualifies to receive a Career Enhancement/Growth step but could otherwise be reclassified, the employee will be reclassified and will not simultaneously receive the Career Enhancement/Growth step. Career Enhancement/Growth steps shall be considered in calculating salary adjustment associated with promotion and upward reclassification, but in no instance shall a salary in a new position be at a step higher than the highest automatic increment
50
step in the new pay range except for lateral transfers v, iere there is no mutual agreement not to exceed the highest automatic i icrement step in the new pay range.
The University agrees to regularly issue University wide reminders promoting the value of this program.
The Career Enhancement/Growth program in its entirety s net subject to the grievance procedure (Article 4).
30.9	Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA). All salary schedules covered by this Agreement shall be modified as follows:
1)	Effective July 1, 2007 a 3.2 percent across-the-boan wage increase. Continuation of the 1.6 percent across-the-board wa ;e increase from July 1,2006.
2)	Effective July 1, 2008 a 3.0 percent across-the-boan wage increase
30.10	Market Rate Wage Adjustments. On July 1, 2007 the j::b titles listed in Appendix VI shall receive the agreed-upon market rate w* ge adjustments.
It market conditions determine that an upward adjustmer I in one or more economic areas is essential to maintain competitiveness both the Union and the Employer shaH be given the opportunity to aise issues of competitive compensation and propose market adjustm mts. When the Employer proposes adjustments, the Union shall be giv »n at least thirty (30) days notice in advance of the implementation date :o negotiate the adjustment.
ARTICLE 31	- NO STRIKE/LOCKOUT
The Employer and the Union acknowledge that this Agreement provides, through the grievance procedure and through other administrative remedies, for an orderly settlement of grievances or disputes which may ar. ;e between the parties. Accordingly, the parties agree that the public inter .ist requires the uninterrupted performance of all University services and to this end pledge to prevent or eliminate any conduct contrary to that objective. Therefore, during the life of the Agreement the Employer shall not lockout any of the ismployees as a result of a labor dispute or grievance or disputes on personnel natters nor shall the Union condone or authorize a work stoppage, work slowdc ,’in, or any other curtailment of work in the bargaining units.
Should the employees engage in any unauthorized concerted action, a Joint Union/Management Committee shall immediately convene and lihall continue to
51
meet until the dispute is settled, and the employees involved shall immediately return to work and continue working. Any employee who refuses to perform his/her work may be subject to disciplinary action.
There will be no strike or lockout regarding any matters pertaining to the contents of this Agreement.
Any action of the Employer in closing the University during a general strike, riot, or civil disturbance for the protection of the institution, its property, or its employees shall not be deemed a lockout.
Any action of an employee in refusing to cross, for his/her own personal safety, a picket line at the Employer's premises in case of an officially declared strike by some other employee organization or union representing employees working for the Employer shall not constitute a violation of this clause of the Agreement, provided, however, that such a decision shall be made freely by the employee without coercion by either the Employer or the Union and provided further that nothing herein shall preclude the Employer from continuing to operate the University with or without temporary replacement personnel.
ARTICLE 32	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The Employer through its designated management personnel or agents has the right and responsibility, except as expressly modified by this Agreement, to control, change, and supervise all operations and to direct and assign work to all working forces. Such rights and responsibilities shall include by way of illustration but shall not be limited to: the selection and hiring, training, discipline and discharge, classification, reclassification, layoff, promotion and demotion or transfer of employees; the establishment of work schedules; the allocation of all financial and other resources; the control and regulation of the use of all equipment and other property of the Employer. The Employer shall determine the methods, technological means and qualifications of personnel by and for which operations are to be carried out. The Employer shall take whatever action as may be necessary to carry out its rights in any emergency situation.
Application of this Article shall not preclude the use of the grievance procedure as established in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 33	- SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT AND SAVINGS CLAUSE
Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part of provision of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof;
52
provided, however, upon such invalidation the parties agree irnrr'ctdiately to meet and negotiate such parts or provisions affected. The renr lining parts or provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 34	- DURATION
This Agreement shall become effective July 1, 2007 and remain in force through June 30, 2009. Automatic renewal shall extend the terms of this Agreement for one year at a time, unless either party serves the other with written notice at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the anniversary date of its inte •( to negotiate a new Agreement. Should notice be served, bargaining shall b; gin within thirty (30) calendar days following the date of the notice for the purpo: of negotiating a new Agreement.
53
Executed this date 211iir C 2007 for and on behalf of
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SEIU LOCALS :>5
Kim Cook
Weldon Ihrig
Executive Vice President
Michael Laslef!
Higher Educat n Division Director
Allison Bigelov.	'
Approved as to form fhts date:
qjpin_____
ris„±fe= Robert W. Kasin
Assistant Attorney General Stare of Washington
Labor & Delive /, UW Medical Center
Chris King
Educational Oi ‘reach
Christian Skoo smith
ApplieciPhysic ; Laboratory
------------
Dely Gasataya
Patient Financ I Services. Northgate
Don Burch
UW Medical Center
Erica Howard
Radiology, UW Medical Center
Urolog
inic, UW Medical Center
e Mayorga interpreter Services Harborview Medical Center
di Morris
epartment of Pathology
Linda Boyce*S nith Children & Tei i: i Clinic
UW Medical Center
Kathy Thomason Physical Plant South
55
APPENDIX I JOB CLASSIFICATIONS UNIVERSITY-WIDE SUPERVISORY BARGAINING L NIT
JOB CODE	CLASSIFICATION	PAY TABLE	SALARY RANGE
7011	ACCOUNTING SUPERVISOR	EM	50
7044	ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT A - SUPERVISORY	EM	41
7046	ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT B	El-4	42
7553	BROADCAST TECHNICIAN SUPERVISOR	EM	55
7339	BUDGET/FISCAL OPERATIONS SUPERVISOR	EI4	57
7338	BUDGET/FISCAL UNIT SUPERVISOR	EM	54
7022	BUILDING SERVICES SUPERVISOR	E14	38
8342	CARDIAC TECHNOLOGIST SUPERVISOR	B7	87
7072	CASHIER SUPERVISOR	EM	35
8368	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST SUPERVISOR	B7	76
7956	COMPUTER OPERATOR SUPERVISOR	B4	47
7650	COPY CENTER SUPERVISOR	B4	40G
7344	CREDIT MANAGER A	EM	34
7345	CREDIT MANAGER B	B4	42
7362	DATA CONTROL SUPERVISOR	EM	47
8477	DENTAL CLINIC SUPERVISOR 1	EM	41
8478	DENTAL CLINIC SUPERVISOR 2	EM	45
8076	FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST SUPERVISOR	EM	48
7068	FISCAL SPECIALIST SUPERVISOR	EM	46
7053	FISCAL TECHNICIAN SUPERVISOR	EM	39
7516	GRAPHIC DESIGN/ILLUSTRATOR SUPERVISOR	EM	52
7210	GROUNDS SUPERVISOR	EM	41
8257	HEALTH INFORMATION SUPERVISOR	EM	49
7306	LIBRARY MATERIALS CONSERVATION SUPERVISOR	EM	38
7312	LIBRARY SPECIALIST 1 - SUPERVISOR	EM	43
7313	LIBRARY SPECIALIST II - SUPERVISOR	EM	47
7320	LIBRARY SUPERVISOR 1	EM	39
7321	LIBRARY SUPERVISOR II	EM	43
7794	MAIL PROCESSING MANAGER	£34	39
7209	MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR 2	EM	59G
7173	MANAGER-SWIMMING POOLS	EM	42
7541	MEDIA ENGINEER B	EM	58
7532	MEDIA MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR	EM	50
7522	MEDIA TECHNICIAN SUPERVISOR	EM	43
8024	MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTION SUPERVISOR	EJ7	38
7215	OFFICE SUPPORT SUPERVISOR 1	EM	39
7216	OFFICE SUPPORT SUPERVISOR 2	EM	43
7735	ORDER FULFILLMENT COORDINATOR SUPERVISOR	EM	35
7733	ORDER SERVICE COORDINATOR SUPERVISOR	EM	35
7652	PARKING SUPERVISOR 1	EM	38
7653	PARKING SUPERVISOR 2	EM	44
7651	PARKING SUPERVISOR 3	EM	48
8069	PATIENT CARE COORDINATOR SUPERVISOR	EM	50
56
JOB CODE	CLASSIFICATION	PAY TABLE	SALARY RANGE
8083	patient financial services supervisor	B4	48
8011	patient REGISTRATION representative lead	B4	36
8012	patient registration representative supervisor	B4	44
8071	patient representative supervisor	B4	50
8080	patient services representative supervisor	B4	41
8095	patient services specialist supervisor	B4	47
7782	photography supervisor	B4	48
7272	police dispatcher supervisor	B4	56
7015	program manager a	B4	42
7259	PROGRAM SUPPORT SUPERVISOR 1	B4	44
7257	PROGRAM SUPPORT SUPERVISOR II	B4	47
7245	SECRETARY SUPERVISOR	B4	43
7170	SPORTS EQUIPMENT MANAGER 1	B4	30
7171	SPORTS EQUIPMENT MANAGER 2	B4	34
7768	STOCKROOM SUPERVISOR	B4	37
7509	SUPERVISOR-MEDIA TECHNICAL SERVICES	B4	51
7286	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS SUPERVISOR	B7	18
7548	TV/V1DEO EQUIPMENT OPERATOR SUPERVISOR	84	39
7207	UTILITY WORKER SUPERVISOR	B4	38
APPENDIX II
OVERTIME EXEMPT JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
JOB CODE	JOB CLASSIFICATION
7011	ACCOUNTING SUPERVISOR
7553	BROADCAST TECHNICIAN SUPERVISOR
7339	BUDGET/FISCAL OPERATOINS SUPERVISOR
7338	BUDGET/FISCAL UNIT SUPERVISOR
8342	CARDIAC TECHNOLOGIST SUPERVISOR
8368	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST SUPERVISOR
7956	COMPUTER OPERATOR SUPERVISOR
7345	CREDIT MANAGER B
7362	DATA CONTROL SUPERVISOR
8477	DENTAL CLINIC SUPERVISOR 1
8478	DENTAL CLINIC SUPERVISOR 2
8076	FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST SUPERVISOR
7516	GRAPHIC DESIGNER/ILLUSTRATOR SUPERVISOR
8257	HEALTH INFORMATION SUPERVISOR
7313	LIBRARY SPECIALIST II - SUPERVISOR
7321	LIBRARY SUPERVISOR II
7209	MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR 2
7173	MANAGER - SWIMMING POOLS
7541	MEDIA ENGINEER B
7532	MEDIA MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR
7216	OFFICE SUPPORT SUPERVISOR 2
7653	PARKING SUPERVISOR 2
7651	PARKING SUPERVISOR 3
8083	PATIENT FINANCIAL SERVICES SUPERVISOR
8071	PATIENT REPRESENTATIVE SUPERVISOR
7782	PHOTOGRAPHY SUPERVISOR
7272	POLICE DISPATCHER SUPERVISOR
7015	PROGRAM MANAGER A
7259	PROGRAM SUPPORT SUPERVISOR I
7257 •	PROGRAM SUPPORT SUPERVISOR II
7768	STOCKROOM SUPERVISOR
7509	SUPERVISOR - MEDIA TECHNICAL SERVICES
7548	TV/VIDEO EQUIPMENT OPERTAOR SUPERVISOR
58
APPENDIX III Differentials - Health Care ProfessionalHechnlcal Clan lifications Effective 7/1/07
Class Code	Class Title	Evening Shift Differ. (S/Houri	Night Shift Differ. (I/Hour)	Standby Pay ($/Hour)	Weekend Pay (S/Hour)
8342	CARDIAC TECHNOLOGIST SUPERVISOR	81.50	$2 25	$3.00	$1.50
8368	CLINICAL DATA SPECIALIST SUPV	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.60
8070	FINANCIAL SERVICES SPECIALIST SUPV	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.60
8257	HEALTH INFORMATION SUPERVISOR	$1 50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8024	MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTION SUPV	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8069	PATIENT CARE COORDINATOR SUPV	$1 50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8083	PATIENT FINANCIAL SERVICES SUPERVISOR	$1.50	$2 25	$3.00	$1.60
8011	PATIENT REGISTRATION REPRESENTATIVE LEAD	$1.50	$2 25	$3.00	$1.50
8012	PATIENT REGISTRATION REPRESENTATIVE SUPV	$1.50	$2 25	$3.00	$1.50
8071	PATIENT REPRESENTATIVE SUPERVISOR	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
8080	PATIENT SERVICES REP SUPV	$1.50	$2.26	$3.00	$1.60
7286	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS SUPERVISOR	$1.50	$2.25	$3.00	$1.50
Fpr the most current information regarding earnings types applicable to Health Care Profess i laVTe<iinical classes, please refer to the Employment Earnings Type Information on the web , it. http:/Mww. Washington, edu/admin/hrrocpsp/eaminga/em. pgs/
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office REV 7/18)5
Pagel oft
59
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	<— F	STEP G							CEGP Steps	
								H	I	J			K	L	M	N	O
14	$1,443	$1,477	$1,512	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976
3/yr	17,316	17,724	18,144	18,528	18,972	19,404	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712
5/hr	8.33	8 52	8,72	8.31	3,12	3.33	3.54	9.75	9.57	iu 20	W.44	10.66	10.91	11 V	11 40
15	$1,477	$1,512	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027
$/yr	17,724	18,144	18.528	18,972	19,404	19,848	20,280	20.736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324
$/hr	8.52	8.72	8.91	9.12	9.33	9 54	9.75	9 97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69
16	$1,512	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072
S/yr	18,144	18,528	18,972	19,404	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22.692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864
S/he	8.72	8.91	9.12	9.33	9.54	9.75	9 97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11 17	11.40	11.69	11.95
17	$1,544	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119
S/yr	18,528	1 A,972	19,404	19 848	20 280	20 736	21 216	21,720	22 176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	23,428
$/hr	8.91	9.12	9.33	9.54	9 75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10 66	10 91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23
18	$1,581	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169
$/yr	18.972	19,404	19,848	20.280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028
$/hr	9.12	9.33	9.54	9 75	9 97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11 40	11.69	11 95	12.23	12.51
19	$1,617	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222
	'r	; 31 □* t o	IJ/CU	20,736	i.zip					Z3, t ! £	24,324	24,<ju4	25,428	26,u2o	26,864
$/hr	9.33	9 54	9.75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11 17	11 40	11.69	11 95	12.23	12.51	.fto
20	$1,654	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272
$/yr	19,848	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24.324	24.864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264
$/hr	9.54	9.75	9.97	10.20	10 44	10.66	10.91	11 17	11.40	11 69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13 11
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 1 of 11
APPENDIX IV University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	6	C	D	E	<	 F	STEP G		>						CEGP Steps	
								H	1		J	K	L	M	N	O
21	$1,690	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324
$/yr	20,280	20,736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22.892	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888
$/hr	3.75	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41
22	$1,728	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378
$/yr	20.736	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536
&hr	9.97	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72
23	$1,768	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433
$/yr	21,216	21,720	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26.664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196
$/hr	10.20	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04
24	$1,810	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492
$/yr	21,720	22,176	22.692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26.664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904
$/hr	10.44	10.66	10.91	11.17	11 40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38
25	$1,848	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547
$/yr	22,176	22,692	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564
$/hr	10.66	10.91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12 51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13 72	14.04	14.38	14.69
26	$1,891	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611
$/yr	22,692	23,232	23.712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27.264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332
$/hr	10 91	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06
27	$1,936	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671
$/yr	23,232	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052
$/hr	11.17	11.40	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 2 of 11
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	□	E	<	 F	STEP G		>						CEGP Steps	
								H	1	J	K			L	M	N	O
28	$1,976	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2378	$2,433	$.2,49.2	$2,547	$2,641	$2,574	$2,734
$/yr	23,712	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27.888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808
$/hr	11.40	11,69	11.35	12,23	12.51	12,82	i3. i i	i 3,41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15,41	15.77
29	$2,027	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799
$/yr	24,324	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588
$/hr	11.69	11.95	12.23	12.51	12 82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15
30	$2,072	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863
$/yr	24,864	25,428	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356
$/hr	11.95	12.23	12.51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15,77	16.15	16.52
31	$2,119	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935
C/ur J '	95 ^28	26 028	26 664	27 254	27 888		29,196	29,904	30,504	31,332	32,052	32,806	33,566	34,356	35,220
$/hr	12.23	12.51	12.82	13 11	13.41	13 72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93
32	$2,169	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003
$/yr	26,028	26,664	27,264	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036
$/hr	12 51	12.82	13.11	13.41	13 72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33
33	$2,222	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074
if	zd ,d+34		Z i uvZ		z^j,		30,664		J'Z.ub'Z	3* ,<3uo	oo, bob	34 f3b6	'35,220	3o,u36	36,3&b
$/hr	12.82	13.11	1341	13.72	14.04	14.38	14 69	15.06	15 41	15.77	16.15	16.49	16.93	17 33	17.73
34	$2,272	$2,324	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150
S/yr	27,264	27,888	28,536	29.196	29,904	30,564	31.332	32.052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800
$/hr	13,11	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16,15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2001
Page 3 of 11
APPENDIX IV
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS
Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1,2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	STEP G							CEGP Steps	
								H	I		J	K	L	M	N	O
35	S2,324	$2,378	S2,433	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	S3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228
S/yr	27,888	28,536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36.888	37,800	38,736
$/hr	13.41	13.72	14.04	14.38	14 69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62
36	$2,378	$2,433	$2,492	S2.547	S2.611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	52,863	$2,935	53,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	S3.311
$/yr	28.536	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33.588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36.888	37,800	38,736	39,732
S/hr	13.72	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	15.41	15 77	16.15	16 52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10
37	S2.433	S2.492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	S3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391
$/yr	29,196	29,904	30,564	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34,356	35.220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40.692
$/hr	14.04	14.38	14.69	15.06	1541	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18 62	19.10	19.56
38	$2,492	$2,547	$2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	S2.863	$2,935	S3,003	$3,074	$3,150	S3,228	S3.311	$3,391	$3,479
S/yr	29,904	30,564	31.332	32,052	32.808	33,588	34.356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39.732	40,692	41,748
S/hr	14 38	14.69	15 06	15 41	15.77	16 15	16.52	16 93	17.33	17.73	18 17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07
39	$2,547	S2,611	$2,671	$2,734	$2,799	S2.863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	S3,560
S/yr	30,564	31,332	32,052	32.808	33,588	34,356	35,220	36.036	36,888	37,800	38.736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720
S/hr	14.69	15.06	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16 93	17.33	17 73	18 17	18.62	19 10	19.56	20.07	20.54
40	S2.611	$2,671	52,734	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	S3,003	$3,074	S3.150	$3 228	$3,311	53,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653
S/yr	31,332	32,052	32,808	33,588	34.356	35.220	36.036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836
S/hr	15.06	1541	15.77	16 15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17 73	18.17	18.62	19 10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08
41	$2,671	52,734	$2,799	S2.863	$2,935	S3,003	$3,074	S3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	S3,744
$/yr	32.052	32.808	33.588	34.356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40.692	41,748	42,720	43.836	44,928
S/hr	15.41	15.77	16.15	16.52	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18 62	19 10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 4 of 11
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A.	a	C	G	E	<-- - F	STEP G		> K	i	j		16.	L		W	CEGP Steps	
														bi	D
42	S2.734	S2.799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841
$/yr	32,808	33,588	34,356	35.220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092
a>/nr	15 77	16.15	16.52	16 93	17.33	17.73	18 17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22 16
43	$2,799	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935
S/yr	33,588	34,356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220
S/hr	16.15	16 52	16.93	17.33	17 73	18.17	18.62	19 10	19.56	20.07	20 54	21.08	21.60	22 16	22.70
44	$2,863	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	S3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033
$/yr	34.356	35,220	36,036	36,888	37,800	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46.092	47,220	48,396
$/hr	16 52	16.93	17.33	17 73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20 54	21.08	21 60	22.16	22.70	23 27
45	$2,935	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131
	35,220	36,036	3G,888	37,300	38,730	30,732	40.GS2	41,748	42.720	43,636	44,928	46.092	47,220	48,396	49,572
S/hr	16.93	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19.10	19.56	20.07	20 54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83
46	$3,003	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237
S/yr	36.036	36.888	37,800	38.736	39.732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844
S/hr	17.33	17.73	18.17	18.62	19 10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23 83	24.44
47	$3,074	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342
i/yr			Ju, / Jb	J&, i J2	40,0^^	41, f 4o	42 h 720	43,638	44,928	46,092	47,220	46,396	49,572	50,844	52,1U4
S/hr	17 73	18 17	18.62	19 10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21 08	21 An	22/6	22.70	23.27		24.44	% CiC
48	$3,150	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453
$/yr	37.800	38,736	39.732	40 S92	41.748	42,720	43.836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48.396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436
S/hr	18.17	18 62	19.10	19.56	20 07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22 70	23.27	23.83	24 44	25 05	25.69
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 70,2007
Page 6 of 11
APPENDIX IV
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	<--■ STEP - -->													CEGP Steps	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	1	J		K	L	M	N	O
49	$3,228	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562
$/yr	38,736	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744
$/hr	18.62	19 10	19.56	20.07	20 54	21.08	21 60	22 16	22.70	23.27	23 83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32
50	$3,311	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676
S/yr	39,732	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49.572	50,844	52.104	53,436	54,744	56,112
$/hr	19.10	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26 98
51	$3,391	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792
S/yr	40,692	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54.744	56,112	57,504
$/hr	19.56	20.07	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65
52	$3,479	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912
$/yr	41,748	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944
$/hr	20.07	20.54	21 08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23 83	24.44	25.05	25 69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34
53	$3,560	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035
S/yr	42,720	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420
$/hr	20.54	21.08	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05
54	$3,653	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163
$/yr	43,836	44,928	46,092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58.944	60,420	61,956
$/hr	21.08	21.60	22 16	22.70	23.27	23 83	24 44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26 98	27 65	28.34	29.05	29.79
55	$3,744	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289
S/yr	44.928	46.092	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468
$/hr	21.60	22.16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25 05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 6 of 11
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	<- - - F	STEP G		>						CEGP Steps	
								H	i		J	K	L	M	N	O
56	$3,841	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426
		47,22ft	4&.3S6	49,572	5ft ,844	52,-i 04	53,436	54,744	56,1 Ji2	57,504	53,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112
$/hr	22,16	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25 69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30
57	$3,935	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557
$/yr	47,220	48,396	49,572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684
$/hr	22.70	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28 34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06
58	$4,033	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699
$/yr	48,396	49.572	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388
$/hr	23.27	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30 51	31 30	32.06	32.88
59	$4,131	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841
S/yr	49	50,844	52,104	cq	54,744	56 112	57 504	58,944	GO,420	G1,95G	G3,4G8	03,112	60,084	Gok3oo	70,092
$/hr	23.83	24.44	25.05	25.69	26.32	26 98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70
60	$4,237	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985
$/yr	50,844	52,104	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820
$/hr	24.44	25.05	25.69	26 32	26 98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31 30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53
61	$4,342	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134
	। U4		o-r, f 4t	oo, r	j r ,uut				tio ,*+vi>	vb, i i 2		ud.ooo	t Ujijyz	f 1 ,bzu	73,608
$/hr	25.05	25.69	26 32	26.98	27.65	28 34	29 05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.H8	33,70	34,53	3539
62	$4,453	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290
S/yr	53,436	54,744	56,112	57,504	58.944	60.420	61.956	63.468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480
$/hr	25.69	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29 79	30.51	31 30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35 39	36.29
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 7 of 11
APPENDIX IV
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	<--- STEP - -->													CEGP Steps	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	1	J		K	L	M	N	O
63	$4,562	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446
$/yr	54,744	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70.092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352
$/hr	26.32	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34 53	35.39	36.29	37.19
64	$4,676	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609
$/yr	56,112	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63.468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73.608	75,480	77,352	79,308
$/hr	26.98	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32 88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13
65	$4,792	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773
$/yr	57,504	58,944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276
$/hr	27.65	28.34	29.05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35 39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39 08
66	$4,912	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943
$/yr	58.944	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316
S/hr	28.34	29.05	29.79	30 51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35 39	36.29	37.19	38 13	39.08	40.06
67	$5,035	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116
$/yr	60,420	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75.480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392
S/hr	29 05	29.79	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05
68	$5,163	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294
$/yr	61,956	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83.316	85,392	87,528
$/hr	29.79	30 51	31 30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08
69	$5,289	$5,426	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477
S/yr	63,468	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724
$/hr	30.51	31.30	32.06	32.88	33 70	34.53	35 39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective r/1/2007
Page S of 11
APPENDIX IV
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	<	 F	STEP G		> H	I	J		K	L	M	CEGP Steps	
														N	O
70	$$A2$	$6,657	$5,69$		$5,365	94	$£.,293	$5,445	$6.55$	$5,773	$5,543	$7.116	$7,294	$7.477	$7,665
$/yr	65,112	66,684	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980
S/hr	31.30	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44 22
71	$5,557	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855
$/yr	66,684	68,388	■70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94.260
$/hr	32.06	32.88	33.70	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38 13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32
72	$5,699	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054
$/yr	68,388	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87.528	89.724	91,980	94,260	96,648
$/hr	32.88	33.70	34.53	35 39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47
73	$5,841	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252
S/yr	70,092	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024
$/hr	33.70	34.53	35 39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41 05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61
74	$5,985	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458
S/yr	71,820	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496
$/hr	34.53	35.39	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45 32	46.47	47.61	48.80
75	$6,134	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7 665	$7,855	$8 054	$8 252	SA 458	£8 R71
w	73,608	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96.648	99.024	101.496	104.052
$/hr	35.39	36.29	37.19	3S.13		40.06	41.05	42.03	tc [4	44. zZ	43.jz	46.47	47.61	48 60	50.03
76	$6,290	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888
S/yr	75,480	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656
$/hr	36.29	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45 32	46.47	47.61	48 80	50.03	51.28
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Pagp 9 of 11
APPENDIX IV
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	STEP G	— >						CEGP Steps	
								H	1		J	K	L	M	N	O
77	$6,446	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107
$/yr	77,352	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284
$/hr	37.19	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42 08	43.14	44,22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48 80	50.03	51.28	52.54
78	$6,609	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334
$/yr	79,308	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008
$/hr	38.13	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44 22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48 80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85
79	$6,773	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570
$/yr	81,276	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840
S/hr	39.08	40.06	41.05	42.08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51 28	52.54	53.B5	55 21
90	$6,943	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808
$/yf	83,316	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696
S/hr	40.06	41.05	42.08	43 14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55 21	56.58
81	$7,116	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052
$/yr	85,392	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624
S/hr	41.05	42.08	43 14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99
82	$7,294	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307
$/yr	87,528	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684
S/hr	42 08	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46
83	$7,477	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560
$/yr	89,724	91,980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720
S/hr	43.14	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51 28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7'1/2007
Page 10 of 11
APPENDIX IV
University of Washington - Contract Classified SE1U LOCAL 925/UW COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS Payscale Table B4 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	C	D	E	<— F	STEP G		> H	I		J	K	L	M	CEGP Steps	
														N	O
84	$7,665	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827
$/yr	91.980	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924
$/hr	44.22	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57 99	59.46	60.92	62.46
85	$7,855	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,10?	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100
$/yr	94,260	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200
$/hr	45.32	46.47	47.61	48.80	50 03	51.28	52.54	53,85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92	62.46	64.04
86	$8,054	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376
$/yr	96,648	99,024	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512
$/hr	46.47	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59 46	60.92	62.46	64.04	65.63
87	$8,252	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376	$11,663
$/yr	99hu24	iu 1,496	iu4d06z	wt>,t>56	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512	139,956
$/hr	47.61	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92	62.46	64 04	65.63	67.29
88	$8,458	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376	$11,663	$11,950
$/yr	101,496	104,052	106,656	109,284	112.008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512	139,956	143,400
$/hr	48.80	50.03	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92	62.46	64.04	6563	67.29	68 94
89	$8,671	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376	£11 663	$11 950	$17 ?S1
S/yr	i04,0o2	iu6bb66	109,284	112,008 114,840		117,696 120,624 123,684			126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512	139.956	143.400	147.012
C/hr			S2 54	53.85	55.21	56.53	57.30	53.46	60.32	G2.4Q	64.04	65.63	67.29	68.94	70.68
90	$8,888	$9,107	$9,334	$9,570	$9,808	$10,052	$10,307	$10,560	$10,827	$11,100	$11,376	$11,663	$11,950	$12,251	$12,556
$'yr	106,656	109,284	112,008	114,840	117,696	120,624	123,684	126,720	129,924	133,200	136,512	139,956	143,400	147,012	150,672
$/hr	51.28	52.54	53.85	55.21	56.58	57.99	59.46	60.92	62.46	64.04	65.63	67.29	68.94	70.68	72.44
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Prqa 11 nf 11
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements
Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	< - - -								- STEP -	- - ’>								CEGP Steps
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	1	J	K	L	M	N	0	p	Q	R	S
0	51,950	$2,009	$2,070	$2,133	$2,197	$2,265	$2,333	S2.404	52,404	$2,404	$2,477	$2,477	$2,551	$2,551	$2 551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875
S/yr	Z3.4OO	24,108	24 840	25 596	26,364	27,180	27,996	28,848	28,848	28,848	29 724	29,724	30,612	30,612	30,612	31,560	32.496	33 504	34 500
S/hr	11 25	11 59	11 94	12.31	12.68	13 07	13.46	13.87	13.87	1357	14 29	14 29	14 72	14 72	14 72	15 17	15 62	16 11	16 59
1	51,969	$2,030	$2,091	$2,155	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,427	$2,427	$2,501	$2,501	$2,577	$2,577	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904
S/yr	23,628	24,360	25,092	25.860	25,640	27.444	28.284	29,124	29,124	29,124	30,012	30,012	30,924	30,924	30,924	31.872	32,832	33.81 e	34,848
S/hr	11.36	11.71	12 06	12 43	12 81	13 19	13 60	14 00	14 00	14 00	14 43	14 43	14 87	14 87	14 67	15 32	1578	16.26	16.75
2	$1,990	$2,051	$2,111	$2,175	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,452	$2,452	$2,526	$2,526	$2,604	$2,604	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934
$/yr	23 OOLT	24.S12	25,332	26,100	26.304	27,70S	2S,543	29,424	29.424	29 424	30,312	30 312	31,248	31,240	31,240	32,1 72	33,1bb	34,152	35,208
S/hr	11.48	11 83	12 18	12.55	12 93	13.32	13 73	14.15	14.15	14.15	14 57	14.57	15 02	15 02	15 02	15 47	15.94	16 42	1693
3	$2,003	$2,070	$2,133	$2,197	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,477	$2,477	$2,551	$2,551	$2,630	$2,630	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963
$/yr	24,108	24,840	25.596	26.364	27.100	27,996	28.848	29,724	29,724	29,724	30,612	30,612	31,560	31,560	31.560	32 496	33 504	34,500	35,556
S/hr	11.59	11 94	12 31	12 68	13 07	13 46	13 87	14 29	14 29	14.29	14 72	14 72	15.17	15.17	15.17	15 62	16 11	16.59	17.09
4	52,030	52,091	S2,155	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,501	52,501	$2,577	$2,577	52,656	$2,656	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992
S/yr	24,360	25,092	25,860	26,640	27,444	20,284	29,124	30,012	30,012	30,012	30,924	30,924	31,872	31.872	31,872	32,832	33,816	34.848	35 904
$/hr	11 71	12 06	12.43	12.81	13 19	1360	14 00	14.43	14 43	14 43	14 87	14.87	15 32	15 32	15 32	15.78	16 26	16.75	1726
5	$2,051	$2,111	$2,175	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,526	$2,526	$2,604	$2,604	$2,681	$2,681	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022
S/yr	24,612	25,332	26,100	26,904	27,700	28,548	29,424	30,312	30,312	30,312	31,248	31.248	32,172	32,172	32,172	33.156	34,152	35.208	36,264
S/hr	11.83	12.10	12 55	12 93	13.32	13 73	14 15	14 57	14.57	14 57	15 02	15.02	15.47	15.47	15 47	15.94	16 42	16.93	17 43
6		^2.133	$2,19 f	S2,2bb	$2,333	32,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,551	$2,551	$2,630	$2,630	$2,708	$2,708	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053
$/yr	24 340	25 596	26,364	27,180	27.996	28 848	29,724	30.612	30 612	30 612	31,560	31,560	32,496	32,496	32,496	33.504	34 500	35,556	36,636
S/hr	11 94	12 31	12 68	13 07	13 46	13 87	14.29	14.72	14.72	14 72	15,17	15 17	15 62	15 62	15.62	16.11	16.59	17 09	17 61
7	$2,091	$2,155	$2,220	$2 287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,577	$2,577	$2,656	$2,656	$2,736	$2,736	$2,736	$2,818	$2 904	$2,992	$3,083
S/yr	25,092	25,860	26 640	27,444	28,284	29,124	30.012	30,924	30,924	30,924	31 872	31,872	32,832	32,832	32,832	33,816	34,840	35,904	36,996
$/hr	12.06	12 43	12 81	13 19	13 60	1400	14.43	14 87	14.87	14 87	15 32	15 32	15 78	15.78	15 76	1626	16 75	17.26	17.79
8	$2,111	$2,175	$2,242	$2,309	32,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,604	$2,604	$2,681	S2.681	S2.763	$2,763	$2 763	$2,846	$2,934	$3 022	$3,114
S/yr	25,332	26,100	26,904	27,708	28,548	29,424	30,312	31,248	31,248	31,248	32,172	32,172	33 156	33,156	33,156	34,152	35,208	36 264	37,368
S/hr	12 18	12 55	12.93	13.32	13 73	14 15	14 57	15.02	15 02	15 02	15 47	15.47	15 94	15.94	1594	16 42	16.93	17 43	17 97
S/yr	25.596	26.364	27.180	27.996	28.848	29,724	30.612	31,560	31.560	31,560	32.496	32.49ft	33.504	33 504	33,504'	34.500	35,556	36,536	37,740
S/hr	12.31	12 69	13 07	13 46	13 87	14 29	14 72	15 17	15.17	15 17	15 62	15 82	16 11	16 11	1ft 11	1ft 59	17 QQ	17 ftl	10 14
Id	$2. T55	S2 220	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2 501	$2,577	S2r658	$2,656	$2,656	$2,736	$2,736	$2,818	$2,818	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175
S/yr	25 960	26,640	27,444	28 284	29,124	30 012	30,924	31,872	31,872	31,872	32.832	32,832	33,816	33,816	33,016	34.848	35.904	36 996	38.100
S/he	12 43	12 81	13.19	13 60	14.00	1443	14.87	15 32	15.32	15 32	15.78	15 78	16 26	1626	16.26	16 75	17.26	17 79	18 02
Prepared by the LfW Compensation O*fice
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 1 of 9
	APPENDIX V University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements																		
	Payscale Table B7 -									Effective July 1, 2007									
Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< -	 H	STEP 1			> J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP R	Steps S
11	$2,175	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,681	$2,681	$2,763	$2,763	$2,846	$2,846	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207
$/yr	26,100	26.904	27,708	28,548	29.424	30,312	31.248	32,172	32,172	32,172	33,156	33,156	34,152	34,152	34,152	35,200	36,264	37,368	38,484
$/hr	12.55	12.93	13.32	13.73	14.15	14 57	15 02	15 47	15.47	15 47	15.94	1594	16.42	16.42	16 42	16.93	17.43	17 97	18 50
12	S2.197	$2,265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,708	$2,708	$2,792	$2,792	$2,875	$2,875	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239
$/yr	26,364	27,180	27,996	28.848	29,724	30,612	31,560	32,496	32.496	32,496	33,504	33,504	34.500	34,500	34,500	35,556	36,636	37,740	38 060
$/hr	12 68	13 07	13 46	13.87	14.29	14.72	15.17	15 62	15.62	15.62	16.11	3611	16.59	16.59	16.59	17.09	17.61	18.14	18.69
13	$2,220	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,736	$2,736	$2,818	$2,818	$2,904	$2,904	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272
S/yr	26,640	27,444	28,284	29,124	30,012	30,924	31,872	32,832	32,832	32,832	33,816	33,816	34,848	34,640	34,848	35,904	36,996	38.100	39,264
S/hr	1281	13.19	13.60	14 00	14.43	14 87	15 32	15.70	15 78	15 78	16.26	16.26	16.75	16.75	16 75	17 26	17.79	18 32	18 88
14	$2,242	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,763	$2,763	$2,846	$2,846	$2,934	$2,934	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304
$/yr	26,904	27,708	28,548	29,424	30,312	31,248	32,172	33,156	33,156	33,156	34.152	34,152	35,208	35.208	35,208	36,264	37,368	38.484	39,648
S/hr	12 93	13 32	13 73	14.15	14 57	15 02	15 47	15 94	1594	15.94	16 42	16.42	16 93	16.93	16 93	17.43	1797	18.50	1906
15	S2.265	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,792	$2,792	$2,875	$2,875	$2,963	$2,963	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337
S/yr	27.180	27,996	28.848	29,724	30,612	31,560	32,496	33,504	33,504	33.504	34,500	34.500	35,556	35,556	35,556	36,636	37.740	38,868	40.044
S/hr	13 07	13 46	13 87	1429	14 72	15.17	15 62	16 11	16.11	16 11	16.59	16 59	17 09	17 09	17.09	1761	18.14	18 69	19.25
16	$2,287	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,818	$2,818	$2,904	$2,904	$2,992	$2,992	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371
S/yr	27.444	28,284	29.124	30,012	30,924	31,872	32.832	33,816	33,816	33,016	34,848	34.848	35,904	35,904	35,904	36,996	38,100	39,264	40.452
S/hr	13.19	13 60	14.00	14 43	14.87	15.32	15 78	16 26	16.26	16.26	1675	16 75	17.26	17.26	17.26	17.79	18 32	18.88	19.45
17	$2,309	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	S2 604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,846	$2,846	$2,934	$2,934	$3,022	$3,022	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304	$3,405
$/yr	27,708	28.548	29.424	30,312	31,248	32,172	33,156	34,152	34,152	34,152	35,208	35,208	36,264	36,264	36.264	37,368	39,404	39,648	40,860
$/hr	13 32	13 73	14 15	14.57	15.02	15.47	1594	16 42	1642	16 42	16.93	16.93	17 43	17 43	17 43	17.97	18.50	1906	1964
18	$2,333	$2,404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,875	$2,875	$2,963	$2,963	$3,053	$3,053	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438
S/yr	27,396	28,848	29,724	30,612	31,560	32,496	33,504	34,500	34,500	34,500	35,556	35,556	36,636	36,636	36,636	37.740	38,868	40,044	41,256
S/hr	13 46	13 87	14.29	14.72	15.17	15 62	16 11	16 59	16 59	16 59	17.09	17 09	17.61	17.61	17.61	19,14	18 69	19 25	19.83
19	$2,357	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,904	$2,904	$2,992	$2,992	$3,083	$3,083	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474
s/yr	20,204	29,124	30,012	30,924	31,872	32,832	33 816	34.848	34,848	34,848	35,904	35,904	36,996	36,996	36,996	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688
S/hr	13 60	14 00	14.43	14 87	15 32	15.78	16 26	16.75	16.75	16.75	17.26	17.26	17 79	17.79	1779	1832	18 88	19 45	20.04
20	$2,379	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$2,934	$2,934	$3,022	$3,022	$3,114	$3,114	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509
S/yr	28.548	29,424	30,312	31,248	32,172	33 156	34,152	35.208	35,208	35.208	36.264	36.264	37,360	37,368	37,368	38,484	39.648	40.860	42,108
S/hr	13 73	14 15	14.57	15.02	15 47	1594	16 42	16.93	16.93	16.93	17 43	17.43	17.97	17.97	17 97	18 50	1906	19.64	20 24
21	S2.404	$2,477	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$2,963	$2,963	$3,053	$3,053	$3,145	$3,145	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543
s/yr	28,040	29,724	30,612	31,560	32,496	33.504	34,500	35,556	35.556	35,556	36,636	36,636	37,740	37,740	37.740	38,868	40.044	41.256	42,516
S/hr	13 87	14 29	14.72	15.17	15 62	16.11	16 59	17 09	17.09	17 09	17.61	17.61	10.14	18 14	18.14	18.69	19.25	19 83	20 44
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 2 of 9
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SE\U Le/caA 92&UW Collective BwrgaWAng Agreements
Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
Rang*	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< - - » H	STEP 1	J	K	L	M	W	0	P	Q	CEGP Steps	
																		R	S
22	$2,427	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$2,992	$2,992	$3,083	$3,083	$3,175	$3,175	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579
S/yr	29.124	30,012	30.924	31,872	32,832	33,816	34.848	35,904	35.904	35.904	36,996	36,996	38,100	38,100	38,100	39,264	40,452	41,688	42,948
S/hr	14.00	14 43	14 87	15,32	15.78	16 26	16 75	1726	17 26	1726	17 79	17 79	18 32	18.32	18.32	18.88	19.45	20 04	20 65
23	$2,452	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,022	$3,022	$3,114	$3,114	$3,207	$3,207	$3,207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614
$/yr	29,424	30.312	31.248	32,172	33,156	34,152	35.208	36,264	36,264	36,264	37,368	37,368	38,484	38,484	38.484	39.648	40.860	42.108	43.368
S/hr	14.15	14 57	15 02	15 47	15 94	16 42	16.93	17.43	17.43	17.43	17 97	17 97	18.50	18.50	1850	19.06	19.64	20 24	20,85
24	S2.477	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,053	$3,053	$3,145	$3,145	$3,239	$3,239	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650
Vyr	29.724	30,612	31.560	32,496	33.504	34,500	35.556	36.636	36,636	36.636	37.740	37.740	38.868	38.868	38,868	40,044	41.256	42,516	43,800
S/hr	14.29	14 72	15.17	15.62	16.11	1659	17.09	17.61	17.61	17.61	18.14	18 14	18 69	18.69	18.69	19.25	19.83	20 44	21.06
25	$2,501	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,083	$3,083	$3,175	$3,175	$3,272	$3,272	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687
S/yr	30,012	30,924	31.872	32,832	33,816	34,848	35.904	36,996	36.996	36,996	38,100	38,100	39,264	39.264	39,264	40,452	41,688	42,948	44,244
S/hr	14.43	14.87	15.32	15.78	16.26	16.75	1726	17.79	17.79	17.79	18.32	1832	18.88	10.88	18.88	19.45	20.04	20.65	21.27
26	$2,526	$2,604	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,114	$3,114	$3,207	$3,207	$3,304	$3,304	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724
S/yr	30,312	31,248	32.172	33.156	34.152	35,208	36,264	37,368	37,368	37,368	38,484	38.484	39,648	39.648	39,648	40,860	42,108	43.368	44,688
S/hr	14.57	1502	15,47	15.94	1642	16.93	17.43	17 97	17.97	17.97	18.50	1850	19.06	19.06	1906	1964	20 24	20 85	21.48
27	$2,551	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,145	$3,145	$3,239	$3,239	$3,337	$3,337	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761
S/yr	30,612	31,560	32,496	33,504	34,500	35,556	36,636	37,740	37,740	37,740	38,868	38,868	40,044	40.044	40.044	41,256	42,516	43,800	45,132
$/hr	14 72	15,17	1562	16 11	16.59	17.09	1761	18 14	18.14	18 14	18.69	18,69	19 25	19 25	19 25	19.83	20.44	21.06	21.70
28	$2,577	$2,656	$2,736	$2,818	$2 904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175	$3,175	$3,175	$3,272	$3,272	$3,371	$3,371	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799
S/yr	30,924	31,872	32,832	33.816	34.848	35,904	36,996	38.100	38,100	38,100	39,264	39,264	40,452	40,452	40,452	41,688	42.948	44,244	45,588
S/hr	14 87	15 32	15 78	1626	16.75	17.26	17.79	18.32	1832	18.32	18.88	1888	19.45	19.45	19 45	20 04	20.65	21.27	21.92
29	S2.6O4	$2,681	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3,207	$3,207	$3,304	$3,304	$3,405	$3,405	$3,405	$3,509	S3,614	$3,724	$3,839
S/yr	31.248	32,172	33,156	34,152	35,208	36,264	37.368	38,484	38,484	38,484	39,648	39,648	40,860	40,860	40,860	42,108	43,368	44,688	46.068
S/hr	15 02	15,47	1594	16 42	16.93	17.43	17 97	1850	18.50	1850	19.06	1906	1964	1964	19.64	20.24	20 85	21 48	22.15
30	$2,630	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,239	$3,239	$3,337	$3,337	$3,438	$3,438	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876
Vyr	31.560	32,496	33,504	34,500	35.556	36,636	37.740	38,868	38,868	38,868	40,044	40,044	41,256	41.256	41,256	42,516	43,800	45,132	46,512
S/hr	15.17	1562	16.11	1659	17.09	17.61	18.14	18.69	18 69	1869	19 25	19.25	1983	19 83	19.83	20.44	21.06	21,70	22 36
				- ■			, j.;. m	-	J	XX b X		•			■*			f	0.J..3 ! sJ
S/yr	31.872	32,832	33.816	34.849	35 904	36,996	38,100	39,264	39,264	39,264	40,452	40,452	41,688	41,688	41,688	42.948	44.244	45.588	46.980
S/hr	1532	15 78	16.26	16 75	17.26	17.79	10.32	10 88	iraa	1RR8	IQ 4*	IQ 4^	20 04	20 04	2QQ4		?<. ■>?	25.92	22 59
32	$2,661	$2,763	$2,846	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304	$3,304	$3,304	$3,405	$3,405	$3,509	$3,509	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954
Vyr	32.172	33,156	34.152	35,208	36.264	37.368	38.484	39.648	39.648	39.648	40 860	40.860	42 106	42J0R	42,108	43,368	44.688	46,068	47,448
S/hr	1547	15 94	16.42	16.93	1743	17.97	18.50	1906	19.06	1906	1964	19.64	20.24	20.24	20.24	20.85	21 48	22 15	22 81
Prepend by the UW Ccmpensate*' Office
Effective 7rt/200?
Pegeicrf 9
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements
Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1,2007
Range	A	B	c	D	E	F	G	< ■». H	STEP	J	K	L	M	N	0	p	Q	CEGP Steps	
																		R	S
33	$2,708	$2,792	$2,875	52,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	S3.337	$3 337	S3,438	$3,438	$3,543	$3,543	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	S3,876	$3,994
S/yr	32,496	33 504	34,500	35,556	36,636	37.740	38,868	40 044	40 044		41,256	41,256	42,518	42,516	42,516	43,800	45,132	46,512	47,928
$/hr	15.62	16 11	16 59	17.09	17 61	18 14	1069	19 25	19 25	19 25	19 83	19 83	20.44	20 44	20 44	21 06	21 70	22 36	23 04
34	$2,736	$2 818	$2,904	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175	S3.272	$3 371	$3 371	S3,371	$3 474	S3,474	S3,579	S3,579	$3 579	S3 687	S3.799	S3.915	$4,034
$/yr	32,832	33 816	34,346	35,904	36,996	38,100	39 264	40,452	40,452	40.452	41 688	41,688	42 948	42,948	42.948	44,244	45.588	46.980	40 408
S/hr	15 78	16 26	16 75	17 26	17 79	18 32	18.88	19 45	19 45	19 45	20 04	20 04	20 65	20 65	20 65	21 27	21 92	22.59	23 27
35	$2,763	$2,846	52,934	$3,022	$3,114	$3,207	$3,304	S3,405	$3,405	$3,405	$3,509	S3,509	$3 614	$3 614	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073
S/yr	33,156	34,152	35,208	36,264	37,388	38,484	39,645	40,350	40,560	40,860	42,108	42,108	43 368	43 368	43,368	44.688	46,068	47,448	48,876
S/hr	15.94	16.42	16 93	17 43	17.97	18 50	19 06	19 64	19.64	19 64	20.24	20 24	20 85	20 85	20 85	21 40	22 15	22.81	23 50
36	S2.792	52,875	$2,963	$3,053	53,145	$3,239	$3,337	S3,438	S3.438	$3,438	S3,543	$3,543	$3,650	$3,650	S3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116
S/yr	33,504	34.500	35.556	36,636	37,740	38,868	40,044	41,256	41,256	41.256	42,516	42.516	43,800	43,800	43,800	45,132	46 512	47,928	49,392
$/hr	16 11	16 59	17 09	1761	18 14	18.69	19.25	1903	19 83	19 83	20 44	20 44	21 06	21 Q6	21 06	21 70	22 36	23 04	23 75
37	$2,818	$2,904	$2,992	53,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	$3,474	$3 474	$3,474	$3,579	$3,579	$3,687	$3,687	$3,687	S3.799	$3 915	S4.034	$4,156
S/yr	33 816	34,848	35.904	36,996	38,100	39.264	40,452	41.688	41,688	41,688	42,948	42.948	44,244	44,244	44,244	45,588	46,980	48,400	49,872
$/hr	16 26	16 75	17 26	17 79	18.32	18 88	1945	20 04	20 04	20 04	20 65	20.65	21 27	21 27	21 27	21 92	22.59	23 27	23 98
38	$2 846	$2,934	$3,022	$3 114	$3,207	S3 304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,509	$3,509	$3 614	S3.614	S3,724	S3.724	$3 724	$3,839	S3.954	$4 073	$4,197
S/yr	34,152	35.208	36,264	37.368	38,484	39.648	40 860	42,106	42,108	42,108	43,368	43.368	44.688	44.688	44 688	46 068	47,448	48 876	50 364
S/hr	16 42	16 93	17 43	17.97	18.50	19 06	19 64	20 24	20 24	20 24	20 85	20 85	21 48	21 48	21 48	22 15	22 81	23 50	24 21
39	$2,875	$2,963	$3,053	$3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	S3.543	$3,543	$3,543	$3,650	$3,650	$3,761	$3,761	$3,761	$3,876	S3.994	$4,116	$4,239
$/yr	34,500	35,556	36,636	37,740	38,868	40,044	41,256	42,516	42,516	42,516	43,800	43.800	45,132	45,132	45,132	46.512	47.928	49,392	50.308
S/hr	16 59	17 09	1761	18 14	18 69	19.25	19 83	20 44	20 44	20 44	21 06	21 06	21 70	21 70	21 70	22.36	23 04	23 75	24 46
40	$2,904	S2.992	$3 083	$3,175	S3 272	$3,371	$3,474	$3,579	S3.579	$3,579	S3.687	$3 687	$3,799	$3,799	S3.799	S3,915	$4,034	S4.156	S4.282
S/yr	34,848	35.SD4	36 996	38,100	39.264	40.452	41,688	42,948	42,948	42.948	44,244	44,244	45.588	45,588	45,568	46.980	48.408	49,072	51.384
$/hr	16 75	17 26	17 79	18 32	18 88	19 45	20 04	20 65	20 65	2D G5	21 27	21 27	21 92	21 92	21 92	22 59	23 27	23 98	24 70
41	$2,934	$3,022	$3,114	S3,207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3614	$3,614	S3,614	$3,724	$3,724	$3,839	$3,839	$3,839	S3,954	$4,073	S4.197	$4,325
$/yr	35.208	36 264	37,368	38,404	39.648	40 860	42,108	43 368	43,368	43,368	44 688	44,688	46,068	46,068	46 068	47,448	48,876	50 364	51,900
$/hr	16 93	17 43	17.97	18 50	19.06	19 64	20 24	20 85	20.85	20.85	21 48	21 48	22 15	22.15	22 15	22.81	23 50	24.21	24.95
42	$2,963	$3,053	S3.145	$3,239	$3,337	S3.438	$3 543	S3.650	$3,650	S3.650	$3,761	S3.761	S3.876	S3 876	$3 876	$3 994	S4 116	$4 239	$4 368
S/yr	35,556	36,636	37,740	38,868	40,044	41,256	42.516	43,800	43.000	43,800	45,132	45,132	46.512	46 512	46.512	47.920	49,392	50 868	52,418
S/hr	17 09	17.61	18 14	18 69	19 25	19 83	20 44	21 06	21.06	21 06	21 70	21 70	22.36	22.36	22 36	23 04	23 75	24 46	25 20
43	$2,992	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	S3,371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	S3.687	$3,687	S3,799	$3 799	$3,915	$3,915	S3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	54,411
$/yr	35,904	36,996	38,100	39,264	40.452	41,688	42,948	44,244	44,244	44,244	45,588	45 588	46,900	46,980	46,980	48.408	49,872	51,384	52,932
S/hr	17.26	17 79	18 32	18 88	19 45	20.04	20 65	21 27	21 27	21.27	21.92	21 92	22 59	22 59	22.59	23 27	23.98	24 70	25 45
Prepared by the UW Compensation Cffice
Effective 7 ■'1/2007
Page 4 of 9
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
	Range	A	B	C	O	E	F	G	<	 H	STEP 1				L	M	N	O	p	Q	CEGP Steps	
											J	K							R	S
	44	53,022	$3,114	S3,207	$3 304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,724	$3,724	S3,839	$3,839	$3,954	$3 954	S3,954	S4.073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456
	S/yr	36,264	37,368	38,484	39,649	40,660	42,100	43,368	44,688	44,688	44,688	46,068	46,068	47,448	47,440	47,448	48,876	50 364	51,900	53,472
	S/hr	17 43	17 97	18.50	19 06	19 64	20.24	20 85	21 49	21.48	21.48	22.15	22.15	22 81	22 81	22 81	23.50	24 21	24 95	25 71
	45	53,053	S3,145	$3,239	$3,337	$3,436	$3,543	$3,650	S3,761	$3,761	$3,761	$3,876	$3 876	$3,994	53,994	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501
	$/yr	36 636	37,740	38.968	40,044	41,256	42,516	43,800	45,132	45,132	45,132	46,512	46,512	47,928	47,928	47 928	49,392	50,868	52,416	54,012
	S/hr	17,61	18,14	18 69	19.25	19 93	20 44	21 00	21 70	21.70	21 70	22 36	22.36	23 04	23 04	23 04	23.75	24.46	25.20	25 97
	46	$3,083	$3,175	$3,272	$3,371	S3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	S3,799	S3,799	$3,915	$3,915	$4 034	$4,034	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	S4.545
	S/yr	36,996	36,100	33,264	40 452	41,688	42,946	44.244	45.56B	45,5SS	45,508	46.980	46,980	48 408	48,408	48,408	49.872	51,384	62 932	54,540
	$/hr	1779	18 32	18.88	19.45	20.04	20.65	21 27	21 92	21 92	21.92	22.59	22 59	23 27	23 27	23.27	23 98	24 70	25 45	26.22
	47	S3,114	$3,207	$3,304	$3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,839	$3,839	$3 954	$3,954	S4.073	$4,073	$4,073	S4.197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591
	S/yr	37,368	38,484	39,648	40,860	42,109	43,369	44.680	46,068	46,068	46,068	47,448	47,440	48,876	48 876	48,876	50,364	51.900	53,472	55.092
	$/hr	17.97	18 50	19 06	19.64	20 24	20 85	21.48	22.15	22.15	22.15	22 81	22.81	23 50	23 50	23 50	24 21	24.95	25 71	26.49
	48	$3,145	S3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3 876	$3,876	$3,994	$3,994	$4,116	S4.116	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638
	S/yr	37,740	38,868	40 044	41,256	42.516	43,800	45,132	46,512	46,512	46,512	47,928	47 928	49,392	49,392	49 392	50.868	52,416	54,012	55,656
	S/hr	16 14	18.69	19.25	19 83	20.44	21 06	21 70	22 36	22.36	22.36	23 04	23 04	23.75	23.75	23.75	24.46	25 20	25.97	26.76
	49	$3,175	$3,272	$3 371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$3,915	$3,915	$4,034	$4,034	$4,156	$4,156	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545	S4,682
Qi	$/yr	38,100	39,264	40,462	41,688	42,949	44.244	45,588	46,980	46,980	46,980	48 400	40,408	49.872	49,872	49,872	51,384	52,932	54,540	56,184
	$/hr	18.32	18 88	19.45	20.04	20 65	21 27	21.92	22 59	22 50	22 59	23 27	23.27	23 98	23 90	23 98	24.70	25.45	26.22	27 01
	5u	Sj.zu/	&3.JU4	54,4115	suy	$3,614	$3,724	S3 039	$3 954	$3,554	$3,954	$4,073	$4,073	54,197	$4,197	S4.197	$4,325	S4.456	$4 591	$4,731
	S/yr	38,464	39,648	40,860	42,108	43,368	44,669	46,068	47,440	47,448	47,448	48,876	48,876	50,364	50.364	50,364	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,772
	S/hr	1850	19.06	19 64	20 24	20 85	21 48	22.15	22.81	22 81	22.81	23 50	23.50	24.21	24.21	24 21	24 95	25 71	26.49	27.29
	51	$3,239	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	$3 650	S3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$3 994	$3 994	$4,116	$4,116	$4,239	$4,239	S4.23S	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778
	$/yr	38.868	40,044	41,256	42,516	43 900	45,132	46,512	47,928	47,928	47,928	49,392	49,392	50,868	50,868	50 868	52,410	54,012	55,656	57,336
	S/hr	18 69	1925	19.83	20 44	21 06	21,70	22.36	23 04	23 04	23 04	23.75	23 75	24 46	24 46	24 46	25 20	25.97	26 76	27 57
	52	$3,272	$3,371	$3 474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,034	$4,034	$4,156	$4,156	$4,282	$4,282	$4,282	$4,411	$4 545	$4,682	S4 827
	$/yr	39,264	40,452	41,608	42,948	44,244	45,598	46,960	48,408	40,400	48,408	49.872	49,872	51,384	51,384	51,384	52 932	54,540	56,184	57,924
	S/hr	18.88	19.45	20 04	20 65	21.27	21 92	22 59	23 27	23.27	23 27	23.98	23.98	24.70	24.70	24 70	25 40	26 22	27 01	27.85
	S/yr	39,648	40,860	42,108	43,366	44,688	46.068	47.448	48.876	48.876	48.876	50,284	50,364	51,900	51,000	51,900	53.472	55,092	56,772	58,488
	S/hr	19.06	19 64	20.24	20 85	21.48	22.15	22.81	23 50	23 50	23 50	24 21	24 21	24 95	24.95	24 36	20 71	26 43	27 2Q	7ft 17
	54	$3,337	$3,438	$3,543	S3,650	$3,761	$3,876	S3,994	S4.116	$4,116	$4,116	$4,239	$4 239	$4,368	$4,368	$4,368	54,501	$4 638	$4,778	$4,923
	S/yr	40,644	41,256	42,516	43,800	45 132	46,512	47,928	49,392	49,392	49,392	50,868	50,868	52.416	52,416	52.416	54,012	55 656	57.336	59.076
	S/hr	19.25	19 83	20 44	21.06	21 70	22 36	23.04	23.75	23.75	23 75	24 46	24 46	25 20	25 20	25 20	25 97	26 76	27 57	28 40
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office
Effective 7/1/2007
Page 5 of 9
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements
Payscale Table B7 • Effective July 1, 2007
— Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< .,. - H	STEP	J	K	L	M	N	O	P	Q	CEGP Steps	
																		R	S
55	S3 371	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3 799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,156	$4,156	$4,282	$4,282	$4,411	$4,411	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972
S/yr	40,452	41,688	42,948	44,244	45,588	46,980	48,408	49 872	49.872	49,872	51,384	51,384	52,932	52,932	52,932	54,540	56,184	57,924	59,664
$/hr	19.45	20.04	20.65	21 27	21.92	22.59	23.27	23.98	23.98	23.98	24 70	24.70	25 45	25 45	25.45	26 22	27 01	27 85	28 68
56	S3,405	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	53,954	$4 073	$4,197	$4,197	$4,197	$4,325	$4,325	$4,456	$4,456	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023
$/yr	40,660	42,108	43,368	44,688	46,068	47,448	48.876	50,364	50,364	50.364	51,900	51,900	53,472	53,472	53 472	55.092	56,772	58,488	60,276
S/hr	19.64	20 24	20 85	21 48	22 15	22.81	23.50	24 21	24.21	24 21	24.95	24.95	25 71	25 71	25 71	26 49	27 29	28.12	28.98
57	S3,438	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,239	$4,239	$4,368	$4,368	$4,501	$4,501	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071
$/yr	41,256	42,516	43,800	45,132	46,512	47,928	49,392	50,868	50,868	50.S68	52,416	52,416	54,012	54,012	54.012	55.656	57,336	59,076	60,852
S/hr	19 63	20.44	21.06	21.70	22.36	23 04	23 75	24.46	24 46	24 46	25 20	25 20	25.97	25.97	25 97	26.76	27.57	28 40	29.26
58	$3,474	$3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,282	$4,282	$4,411	$4,411	$4,545	$4,545	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122
S/yr	41,688	42,948	44,244	45,588	46,980	48,408	49,872	51,384	51,384	51,384	52,932	52,932	54,540	54,540	54,540	56,104	57,924	59 664	61,464
S/hr	20 04	20.65	21 27	21 92	22.59	23 27	23.98	24.70	24 70	24 70	25 45	25.45	26 22	26 22	26.22	27.01	27 05	28 68	29 55
59	$3,509	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,325	$4,325	$4,456	$4,456	$4,591	$4,591	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174
S/yr	42.108	43,368	44,688	46,068	47,448	48,876	50,364	51,900	51.900	51,900	53,472	53,472	55,092	55,092	55,092	56,772	58,488	60.276	62,088
S/hr	20.24	20.85	21.48	22.15	22.81	23.50	24.21	24.95	24.95	24.95	25.71	25 71	26 49	26 49	26 49	27 29	28 12	28.98	29.85
60	$3,543	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,388	$4,368	$4 368	$4,501	$4,501	$4,638	$4,638	$4,638	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226
$/yr	42,516	43,800	45,132	46 512	47,928	49,392	50 868	52,416	52,416	52,416	54,012	54,012	55,656	55.655	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712
$/hr	20 44	21 06	21.70	22.36	23 04	23,75	24.46	25 20	25.20	25.20	25 97	25 97	26 76	26 76	26 76	27 57	28.40	29 26	30 15
61	S3,579	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,411	$4,411	$4,545	$4,545	$4,682	$4,682	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279
S/yr	42,948	44,244	45,588	46,980	48,408	49,872	51,384	52,932	52,932	52,932	54,540	54,540	56,184	56,184	56.184	57,924	59.6S4	61,464	63,348
$/hr	20 65	21.27	21 92	22 59	23.27	23 98	24 70	25 45	25 45	25 45	26 22	26 22	27 01	27 01	27 01	27.85	28 68	29 55	30 46
62	$3,614	$3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,456	$4,456	$4 591	$4,591	$4,731	$4,731	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331
S/yr	43,368	44,688	46,068	47,446	48,876	50,364	51,900	53,472	53,472	53,472	55 092	55,092	56.772	56,772	56,772	58,488	60,276	62,088	63,972
S/hr	20.85	21 48	22.15	22.81	23 50	24 21	24.95	25.71	25 71	25.71	2ft 49	26 49	27 29	27 29	27 29	2B.12	28.98	29.85	30 76
63	$3,650	$3,761	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,501	$4,501	$4,638	$4,638	$4,778	$4,778	$4,778	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385
S/yr	43,800	45,132	46,512	47,928	49,392	50,868	52.416	54,012	54,012	54,012	55,656	55,656	57,336	57,336	57,336	59,076	60,852	62,712	64,620
S/hr	21.06	21.70	22.36	23 04	23.75	24.46	25.20	25.97	25.97	25 97	26 76	26.76	27.57	27 57	27 57	28 40	29.26	30.15	31 07
64	$3,687	$3,799	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,545	$4,545	$4,682	$4,682	$4,827	$4,827	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439
S/yr	44,244	45,588	46,980	48,408	49,872	51,384	52,932	54,540	54,540	54,540	56,184	56,184	57,924	57,924	57,924	59,664	61,464	63,348	65,268
S/hr	2127	21.92	22 59	23.27	23.98	24.70	25.45	26.22	26.22	26 22	27 01	27 01	27 85	27 85	27 85	28.68	29 55	30 46	31 38
65	S3,724	$3,839	$3,954	$4 073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,591	$4,591	$4,731	$4,731	$4,874	$4,874	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492
S/yr	44,688	46,068	47,448	48,876	50,364	51.900	53,472	55,092	55,092	55,092	56,772	56,772	58,488	58,488	58,488	60,276	62,088	63,972	65,904
S/hr	21.48	22 15	22.81	23.50	24 21	24.95	25 71	26 49	26 49	26 49	27 29	27.29	28.12	28 12	28.12	28 98	29 85	30.76	31 68
Prepared by the UW Componeeticn Office
Effectrve 7/1/2007
Page 6 nf 9
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified Lucai ^25/UVi Co'i'iective Bargaining Agreements
Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range	A	B	c	D	E	F	G	<	 H	STEP		.>		L	M	N	O	p	Q	CEGP Steps	
										J	K							R	S
GG	$3,7 ch	$3 376	$3,334	$4,i 16	$4,239	$4,368	S4.501	£4,836	$4,638	$4,638	$4,778	$4,778	$4,923	$4 923	$4,923	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548
$/yr	45,132	46 512	47,928	49.392	50,868	52,416	54,012	55,656	55,656	55 656	57,336	57,336	59,076	59,076	59,076	60 852	62,712	64,620	66,576
$/hr	21 70	22 36	23 04	23 75	24 46	25.20	25 97	26.76	26 76	26 76	27 57	27.57	28 40	20 40	28 40	29.26	30.15	31 07	32.01
	S3,799	$3,915	$4 034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,682	$4,682	$4,827	$4,827	$4,972	$4,972	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604
S/yr	45,588	46,960	48.408	49,872	51.384	52,932	54.540	56,184	56,184	56,184	57,924	57,924	59,664	59 664	59.664	61 464	63,348	65,268	67,248
S7r it	21.02	22 59	23 27	23 98	24.70	25 4b	Zb 22	27.01	27 01	27 01	27 85	27 85	28.68	28 68	28.68	29.55	30 46	31.38	32 33
68	$3 839	$3 954	$4 073	$4,197	$4,325	$4 456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,731	$4,731	$4,874	$4,874	$5,023	$5,023	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5 492	$5,658
$/yr	46 068	47.440	40R7R	50 364	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,772	56 772	56 772		58,488	80.276	00,276	6Q.27G	62 088	63.972	65,904	67,656
$/hr	22.15	22 81	23.50	24 21	24 95	25 71	26 49	27.29	27 29	27.29	28 12	28.12	28.98	28 98	28 98	29.85	30 76	31 68	32 64
69	$3,876	$3,994	$4,116	$4,239	$4,368	$4,501	$4,638	$4,778	$4,778	$4,778	$4,923	$4,923	$5,071	$5,071	$5,071	$5,226	$5,385	$5,548	$5,714
S/yr	46.512	47,928	49.392	50,869	52,416	54,012	55,656	57,336	57,336	57,336	59,076	59,076	60,852	60.852	60.852	62,712	64,620	66,576	68.568
S/hr	22.36	23 04	23 75	24 46	25 20	25 97	26 76	27.57	27.57	27 57	28.40	28.40	29.26	29.26	29.26	30.15	31 07	32.01	32.97
70	$3,915	$4,034	$4,156	$4 282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4 827	$4,827	$4,972	$4,972	$5,122	$5,122	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772
S/yr	46,980	48.408	49,672	51.384	52,932	54 540	56,184	57,924	57,924	57.924	59 664	59,664	61.464	61,464	61,464	63,348	65 268	67,248	69,264
S/hr	22.59	23 27	23.98	24.70	25 45	26 22	27 01	27.85	27 85	27.85	28 68	28.68	29.55	29.55	29 55	30.46	31 38	32 33	33.30
71	$3,954	$4,073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$4,874	$4,874	$5,023	$5,023	$5,174	$5,174	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,658	$5,829
S/yr	47.448	48,876	50.364	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,772	58,488	58,488	50,488	60,276	60.276	62,088	62.088	62,088	63.972	65,904	67,896	69 948
S/hr	22.81	23 50	24 21	24.95	25.71	26 49	27.29	28.12	28.12	28 12	28.98	28.98	29.85	29.85	29.85	30 76	31 68	32.64	33.63
72	Ct 130 4		S4 200	$4 365	S4,501	0,4. Gju	£4.770	•JH,	$4 S23	$4,923	$5.07 i	55,07 i	$5.2Zo		bb.ZZb	Jbb.bBb	Sb,543	$5,714	55,888
S/yr	47,928	49.392	50,868	52.416	54,012	55.656	57,336	59,076	59,076	59.076	60 852	60,852	62.712	62,712	62,712	64.620	66,576	68 568	70,656
S/hr	23.04	23 75	24 46	25 20	25 97	26 76	27 57	28 40	28 40	28.40	29 26	29.26	30.15	30.15	30 15	31.07	32 01	32 97	33.97
73	$4,034	$4,156	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$4,972	$4,972	$5,122	$5,122	$5,279	$5,279	$5,279	$5,439	$5 604	$5,772	$5,946
S/yr	48.408	49,872	51.384	52,932	54,540	56,184	57,924	59,664	59,664	59,664	61,464	61.464	63,348	63,348	63,340	65.268	67,240	69,264	71,352
S/hr	23 27	23 98	24 70	25 45	26 22	27 01	27.85	28.68	28 68	28 68	29.55	29.55	30.46	30.46	30 46	31 38	32 33	33 30	34.30
74	$4 073	$4,197	$4,325	$4,456	$4,591	$4,731	$4,874	$5 023	$5 023	$5,023	$5,174	$5,174	$5,331	$5,331	$5,331	$5,492	S5.658	$5,829	$6,006
S/yr	48,876	50.364	51,900	53.472	55,092	56.772	58,488	60,276	60,276	60.276	62 088	62,008	63.972	63,972	63,972	65,904	67,896	69,948	72,072
$''hr	23.50	24 21	24.95	25.71	26 49	27.29	28 12	28 98	28 95	28 98	29 85	29.85	30.76	30.76	30 76	31.68	32 64	33 63	34.65
S/yr	^y.^yz	50,868	52,416	t>4,U12	55.556	57,336	59,076	60,852	60,852	60,852	62,712	62.712	64,620	64,620	64 620	66 576	68.568	70,656	72.792
□/nr	zj. i1 b	24 46	Z'l zu	25.97	26.76	27 57	28 4U	29.26	29.26	28 26	30.15	30.15	31.07	31.07	31.07	32 01	32.97	33 97	35 00
76	$4,156	S4 282	54,411	£4,545	54,082	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,122	$5,122	$5 279	S5.279	$5,439	$5,439	$5,439	$5,604	$5,772	$5,946	$6,126
S/yr	49,872	51.384	52,932	54.540	56,184	57,924	59,664	61,464	61,464	61,464	63 348	63,348	65 268	65,268	65,268	67,248	69,264	71 352	73,512
	23 98	24 fu	26 4b	Zb 22	27 01	27 35	28 80	29 55	29 55	29 55	30 48	30 46	31 38	31.38	31 30	32 33	33 30	34.30	35.34
Prepared by Ibe UW Compensation Office
Effective 7.'U2007
Page 7 of 9
APPENDIX V
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements
Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
	Range	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	< . . . - H	STEP	- - - ->		L	M	N	0	P	Q	CEGP Steps	
											J	K								
																			R	s
	77	S4.197	S4.325	$4,456	$4 591	$4,731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,174	$5,174	S5.331	$5,331	$5,492	$5,492	$5,492	$5 658	$5 829	$6,006	$6,188
	w	50,364	51.900	53,472	55 092	56,772	58.488	SO, 276	62,088	62.088	62, DBS	63,972	63,972	65,904	65,904	65,904	67.896	69,948	72,072	74.256
	S/hr	24 21	24 95	25 71	26 49	27 29	28 12	28 98	29 85	29 85	29.85	30 76	30 76	31 68	31 68	31 68	32.64	33 63	34 65	35 70
	78	$4,239	$4,368	S4.501	S4.638	84 778	$4,923	$5,071	S5.226	$5,226	$5,226	$5,385	$5,385	$5 548	$5,548	$5,548	$5,714	$5 888	S6.066	$6,250
	S/yr	50,868	52.416	54 012	55,656	57.336	59,076	60,852	62,712	62,712	62,712	64,620	64,620	66 576	66.576	66 576	66,568	70,656	72,792	75,000
	$/hr	24 46	25.20	25 97	26 76	27 57	28 40	29 26	30 15	30 15	30 15	31 07	31 07	32 01	32 01	32.01	32 97	33 97	35 00	36 06
	79	$4,282	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5 279	S5.279	$5 439	$5 439	$5,604	$5,604	$5,604	$5,772	$5,946	$6 126	$6,313
	S/yr	51.384	52.932	54,540	56,184	57.924	59,664	61,464	63,348	63,348	63.348	65 268	65 268	67,248	67,248	67.240	69,264	71,352	73.512	75,756
	S/hr	24 70	25 45	26 22	27 01	27 85	28 68	29 55	30 46	30 46	30.46	31 38	31 38	32 33	32 33	32 33	33 30	34 30	35 34	36 42
	80	$4,325	S4.456	$4,591	$4 731	$4,874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,331	$5,331	S5.492	$5,492	$5,658	$5,658	$5,658	$5 829	$6 006	$6,188	$6,376
	$/yr	51,900	53,472	55,092	56,772	58,488	60,276	62,088	63,972	63,972	63,972	65,904	65,904	67,896	67,896	67,896	69.948	72.072	74,256	76,512
	S/hr	24 95	25 71	26 49	27 29	28 12	28 98	29 85	30 76	30 76	30 76	31 68	31 68	32 64	32 64	32.64	33 63	34 65	35 70	36 78
	81	$4,368	$4,501	S4.638	54,778	$4,923	S5.071	$5,226	S5.385	S5.385	$5,385	$5,548	$5,548	$5,714	$5,714	$5,714	$5,888	$6,066	S6.250	$6,439
	S/yr	52,416	54.012	55,656	57,336	59,076	60,852	62.712	64,620	64,620	64,620	66,576	66,576	68 568	68.568	68 568	70,656	72,792	75,000	77,260
	S/hr	25 20	25 97	26 76	27 57	28.40	29.26	30 15	31 07	31 07	31 07	32 01	32.01	32.97	32.97	32.97	33.97	35 00	36 06	37 15
	82	$4,411	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4 972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5 439	$5,439	$5 604	$5 604	$5,772	$5,772	$5,772	$5,946	$6,126	$6,313	$6 503
	S/yr	52.932	54,540	56 184	57 924	59 664	61 464	63,348	65,268	65 268	65 268	67 248	67 248	69,264	69.264	69,264	71 352	73,512	75 756	78 036
	S/hr	25 45	26 22	27 01	27 85	28 68	29 55	30 46	31 38	31 38	31 38	32.33	32 33	33 30	33 30	33 30	34 30	35 34	36 42	37 52
	83	$4,456	S4.591	$4,731	$4 874	$5,023	$5,174	$5,331	$5,492	$5,492	$5,492	$5,658	$5,658	$5,829	$5,829	$5,829	$6 006	$6 188	$6,376	$6,569
	$/yr	53,472	55.092	56,772	58,488	60,276	62,088	63,972	65.904	65.904	65,904	67,896	67,096	69.948	69,948	69,948	72,072	74 256	76,512	78,828
	S/hr	25 71	26 49	27.29	28 12	28.98	29 85	30 76	31.68	81 6B	31.68	32 64	32 64	33 63	33 63	33 63	34.65	35 70	3S 78	37 90
	84	$4,501	$4,638	S4 778	$4,923	S5.071	85,226	$5 385	$5,548	$5,548	$5,548	$5,714	$5,714	$5,888	$5 888	S5.888	$6,066	$6,250	S6.430	$6,635
	S/yr	54.012	55.656	57 336	59,076	60.852	62.712	64.620	66,576	66,576	66,576	68,568	68 568	70.656	70,656	70 656	72 792	75,000	77,268	79,620
	$/hr	25 97	26 76	27 57	28 40	29 26	30 15	31 07	32 01	32 01	32 01	32 97	32 97	33 97	33 97	33 97	35 00	36 06	37 15	38 28
	85	$4,545	$4,682	$4,827	$4,972	$5,122	$5,279	$5,439	$5,604	$5 604	$5 604	$5 772	$5,772	$5,946	$5,946	$5,946	$6,126	S6.313	$6,503	$6,701
	S/yr	54.540	56,184	57,924	59.664	61,464	63,348	65,268	67,248	67.248	67.248	69.264	69 264	71,352	71,352	71,352	73,512	75 756	76 036	80,412
	S/hr	26.22	27 01	27 85	28 68	29 55	30 46	31 38	32 33	32 33	32 33	33 30	33 30	34 30	34 30	34 30	35 34	36 42	37 52	38 66
	86	$4,591	S4.731	$4,674	$5,023	$5 174	$5,331	$5,492	$5 658	$5,658	$5,658	$5,829	$5,829	$6,006	$6,006	$6,006	$6,188	$6,376	$6,569	$6,768
	$/yr	55,092	56,772	58.488	60 276	62,088	63,972	65,904	67.896	67,896	67,896	69,948	69,948	72,072	72,072	72,072	74,256	76.512	78,828	81.216
	S/hr	26 49	27 29	28 12	28 98	29 85	30 76	31 68	32 64	32 64	32 64	33 63	33 63	34 65	34 65	34 65	35 70	36 70	37 90	39 05
	87	$4,638	$4,778	S4 923	$5,071	S5.226	$5,385	$5 548	$5,714	S5.714	$5,714	$5,888	$5,888	$6 066	$6 066	S6.066	$6,250	$6,439	$6,635	S6 835
	S/yr	55.656	57.336	59 076	60,852	62 712	64,620	66 576	68,568	68 568	60,568	70,656	70 656	72,792	72.792	72,792	75,000	77,268	79.620	82 020
	$/hr	26 76	27 57	26 40	29.26	30 [5	31 07	32.01	32 97	32 97	32.97	33 97	33.97	35.00	35 00	35 00	36.06	37 15	38.28	39.43
Prepared by the UW Compensation Office*
Effective 7/1/2007
Page fl of g
University of Washington - Contract Classified SEIU Local 925/UW Collective Bargaining Agreements Payscale Table B7 - Effective July 1, 2007
Range
88” S/yr S.'hr
09 $/yr
90 S/yr $/hr
91 S/yr S.'hr
92 $/yr S/hr
93 S/yr $/hr
94 S/yr S.'hr
95 $/yr S/hr
96 S/yr S.'hr
5/yi
98 S/yr S/hr
99 S/yr $/hr
A 54,682 56,184 27.01 $4,731 56,772
$4,778 57 336
27 57 $4,827 57,924 27.85 $4 874 58,488
28 12 $4,923 50,076
28.40 $3,072 59,664 28 68 $5,023 60 276
28 98 $5 071 60 852
29 26
61,464 29.55 $5,1 r4 62,088
29.85 $5,226 62,712
30.15
B 54,827 57,924 27 85 $4,874 58,488
$4 923 59,076 20 40 $4,972 59,664 28 68 $5,023 60 276 28 90 $5,071 60,852
29 26 $5,122 61,464
29 55 $5,174 62,088
29 85 $5 226 62,712
30 15
63,348 30 46
$5,j3 i 63,972
30 76 $5,385 64,620
31 07
C $4,972 59,664 28 60 $6,023 60,276
$5,071 60 852
29 26 $5,122 61,464
29 55 $5,174 62,080
29 85 $5,226 62,712
30.15 $5,279 63,348
30 46 55,331 63,972
30 76 $5,385 64,620
31 07
65,268
ih,492 65,904
3 I 68 $5,548 66,576
32 01
D $5,122 61,464 29 55 $5 174
62,088
$5,226
62.712
30 15 $5 279 63 348
30 46 $5,331 63,972
30 76 55,385 64,620
31.07 $5,139
65 268
31 38 $5,492
65,904
31.68 $5,548 66,576
32 01
67,240
32.33 $5,658 67,896
32 64 S5.714 68,568
32,97
E $5,279 63,348 30 46 $5,331 63.972
$5 385 64 620
31 07 $5,439 65,268 31.38 $5,492 65,904 31.68 $5,548 66,576
32 01 $5,601 67,248 32 33 $5,658 67.896 32 64 S5 714 68,568
32.97
69,2o4
$5,829 69,948
33 63 $5,808 70,656
33 97
F
S5.439 65,268 31 30 $5,492 65,904 31 63 $5,548 66 576 32.01 $5,604 67,248 32 33 $5,650 67,896 32.64 $5,714 68.568 32.97
69,264 33.30 $5,829 69,948 33 63 $5,088
70.656 33.97
f 1,352
$6,006 72,072 34 65 $6 066 72 792 35 00
G $5,604 67,248 32 33 $5 658 67,896 32 64 $5,714 68 560 32 97 $5,772 69,264 33 30 $5 829 69.948 33 63 S5 888 70,656 33.97 cc
71.352 34.30 $6,006 72.072
34.65 $6,066 72,792 35 00
13,512 35 34 $6,188 74 256
36 70 $6,250 75,000
36 06
<---STEP
CEGP Steps
35,772
69,264
33 30 $5,829 69,948
33.63 $5,888 70 656
33.97
55,946
71,352
34.30 $6,006 72,072
34 65 $6,066 72,792
35 00
73,512
35 34 $6,188 74,256
35 70 $6,250
75 000
36 06
/5,/56
36 42 $6,376 76,512
36 76 $6,439 77,268
37.15
$5,772
69 264
33.30 $5,829 69,948
33 63 55,888 70.656
33.97 $5,946 71.352
34 30 $6 006 72,072
34.65 $6,066 72,792
35 00
73.512
35 34 $6,188
74 256
35 70 $6,250 75,000
36 06
75,758
36 42
$6 376
76.512
36 78 $6,439 77,268
37 15
$5,772 69,264 33 30
$5,829 69 948
33 63 55,888 70.656
33.97 $5,946 71,352
34 30 $6,006 72.072
34 65 $6,066 72,792
35 00
73,512 35 34
$6,188
74 256 35.70 $6,250
75,000
36 06
75,756
36 42 $6,376 76.512
36 78 $6,439 77,268
37.15
$5,946 71,352 34.30
$6,006 72,072
34 65 $6.066 72,792
35 00 $6,126 73,512
35.34 $6,188 74 256
35.70 $6 250 75,000
36.06
75,756
36 42 $6,376 76,512
36.78 $6 439 77,268
37 15
78,036
37 52 56,569 78,828
37.90 $6,635 79,620
38 2&
$5,946 71,352
34 30 $6,006 72,072
34.65
S6.06S
72.792
35.00 $6,126 73,512
35 34 $6,180 74,256
35 70 $6,250 75,000
36.06
75,756
36.42 $6,376 76,512
36 78 $6,439
77.268
37.15
70,036
37 52
56,569
78,828
37 90 $6,635 79,620
3B.2B
M $6,126 73,512 35.34 $6,188 74,256 35 70 $6 250 75,000 36.06 $6,313 75,756 36 42 $6,376 76 512 36.78 $6 439 77,268 37 15
78,036 37 52
$6,569 78,028
37.90 $6 635 79.620
38 28
80,412 38.66 $6,768 81.216
39.05 $6,035 02,020
39.43
N $6,126 73,512 35 34 $6,188 74,256
35./O S6.250 75,000
36 06 $6,313 75,756 36 42 $6,376 76 512 36.70 $6,439 77,268 37.15
78,036 37 52 $6,569 78 820
37.90 $6 635 79,620
38 28
80,412 36 66
$6,768 81.216 39 05 $6,835 82 020 39 43
O $6,126 73,512 35 34 $6,188 74,256 35.70 $6 250 75,000 36 06 $6,313 75,756 36.42 $6,376 76.512 36.78 $6,439 77,268 37.15
78,036 37 52
$6,569 78,828
37.90 $6 635 79 620 38 28
80,412 38 66
$6,768 01.216
39 05 $6,835 82 020
39 43
P $6,313 75.756 36 42 $6,376 76,512 36.78 $6,439 77,268 37 15 $6,503 78.036 37 52 $6,569 78,820 37.90 $6,635 79,620 38 28
00 412 38 66 $6,768 81,216 39 05 56,835 82,020 39 43
82.048 39.83 $6,973
83.676 40 23 57,042 84,504 40 63
Q $6,503 70,036 37.52 $6,569 78.828 37.90 $6,635 79,620 38.28 $6,701 80,412 38 66 $6,768 81,216 39 05 $6 835 82 020 39 43
82,848 39.83
$6,973 83,676 40.23 57,042 84.504 40 63
05,380 41.05 $7,185 86,220 41.45
S7.257 87,084
R $6,701
00,412 38.66 $6,768 81,216
39.05 $6 835 82.020
39 43 $6 904 82,848
39 03 $6,973 83,676 40 23 $7,042 84.504
40 63
85 380 41 05 $7,185 86,220 41 45 $7,257
87.084 41 87
87,960
42.29 $7,403 88,836 42 71 $7,477 89,724
43.H
S $6,904 02,848 39 83 S6.973 83,676 40.23 $7,042 64,5G4 40 63 $7,115 85,380 41.05 $7,185 86,220 41 45 $7,257 87,084 41.87
87,960 42 29 $7,403 88,836
42.71 $7,477 89.724
43 14
90,612 43 56 S7.626 91,512 44 00 $7,704 92,448 44 45
Prepared by tne UW Cornoensation Ofr-ce
Effective 7M'2007
Page 9 of 9
Prepared by HR Compensation
APPENDIX VI
August 9, 2006
Market Adjustments Effective July 1, 2007
Job Code	Job Title	::,ercent Flange Adjustment
7553	BROADCAST TECHNICIAN SUPERVISOR	5.0%
7022	BUILDING SERVICES SUPERVISOR	5.0%
7516	GRAPHIC DESIGNER/1LLUSTRATOR SUPV	5.0%.
7173	MANAGER-SWIMMING POOLS	2.5%
7541	MEDIA ENGINEER B	5.0%
7522	MEDIA TECHNICIAN SUPERVISOR	5.0%
7215	OFFICE SUPPORT SUPERVISOR 1	5.0%
7216	OFFICE SUPPORT SUPERVISOR 2	5,0%.
7272	POLICE DISPATCHER SUPERVISOR	5.0%.
7259	PROGRAM SUPPORT SUPERVISOR I	5.0%
7257	PROGRAM SUPPORT SUPERVISOR II	5.0%.
7245	SECRETARY SUPERVISOR	5.0%
7768	STOCKROOM SUPERVISOR	7.5%.
7548	TV/VIDEO EQUIPMENT OPERATOR SUPERVISOR	5.0%
Info from 7/2006 Comp Plan • Page
Page 1 of t
80
APPENDIX VII
LAYOFF SENIORITY UNITS
1.	Office of the President
2.	Applied Physics Laboratory
3.	Libraries
4.	Vice President for Minority Affairs
5.	College of Ocean and Fishery Sciences
6.	College of Engineering
7.	College of Architecture and Urban Planning
8.	School of Law
9.	Daniel Evans School of Public Affairs
10	School of Social Work
11.	College of Forest Resources
12.	Business School
13.	College of Education except for Experimental Education Um:
14.	Experimental Education Unit
15.	Undergraduate Education
16.	School of Dentistry
17.	School of Nursing
18.	School of Pharmacy
19.	School of Public Health and Community Medicine
20.	Facilities Services (except Transportation Office)
21.	Transportation Office
22.	Arts and Sciences - Arts
23.	Arts and Sciences - Humanities
24.	Arts and Sciences - Social Sciences
25.	Arts and Sciences - Natural Sciences
26.	Arts and Sciences - Biology, Psychology, Speech and Hear ig, Earth and Space Sciences, Atmospheric Sciences
27.	Arts and Sciences -- Dean’s Office and Burke Museum
28.	Vice President of Student Affairs except Housing and Food Services
29.	Housing and Food Services
30.	Vice President for University Relations
31.	Vice President for Development and Alumni Relations
32.	Office of the Executive Vice President
33.	Vice President for Human Resources
34.	Publications Services
35.	Purchasing and Stores
36.	Financial Accounting, Equipment Inventory Office
37.	Payables Administration, Travel
38.	Student Fiscal Services
39.	Grant & Contract Accounting, Payroll, Management Account ng & Analysis, Treasury, Controller’s Office, Other Financial Management I nits
81
Appendix VII - Layoff Seniority Units (Cont’d)
40.	Special Employment Programs
41.	Academic Services; Center for Educational Resources
42.	Health Sciences Administration - Center on Human Development and Disability; Research Center in Oral Biology; Alcohol and Drug Abuse Institute
43.	Health Sciences Administration - Hall Health; Environmental Health and Safety
44.	Regional Primate Research Center
45.	Al) Other - Budget and Administration, Health Sciences and Medical Affairs, News and Community Relations, HSC Minority Student Program, Institute on Aging, IAIMS, Office of the Executive Director
46.	Office of the Vice President for Medical Affairs and Dean of School of Medicine administrative/program units including the Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs: Biomolecular Structure & Design Program, Molecular and Cell Biology Program, and Program for Neurobioiogy and Behavior
School of Medicine Departments to be broken down as follows:
47.	Anesthesiology
48.	Biochemistry
49.	Biological Structure, Bioengineering, Microbiology, Genome Sciences, Department of Neurology
50.	Clinical Research Center
51.	Comparative Medicine
52.	Family Medicine
53.	Immunology
54.	Laboratory Medicine
55.	Medical History and Ethics, Medical Education
56.	Medicine
57.	Neurological Surgery
58.	Obstetrics/Gynecology
59.	Ophthalmology
60.	Orthopedics
61.	Otolaryngology
62.	Pathology
63.	Pediatrics
64.	Pharmacology
65.	Physiology and Biophysics
66.	Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences
67.	Radiation Oncology, Radiology
68.	Rehabilitation Medicine
69,	Surgery
70.	Urology
82
Appendix VII - Layoff Seniority Units (Cont’d)
Computing and Communications:
71.	Computing and Communications, Office of the VP, Business & Finance, TV & Video Technologies
72.	IT Infrastructure
73.	Information Systems
Harborview Medical Center
74.	Executive Director - Compliance, Community Relations, Fir :ince, Development, Chief Operating Officer, Hiring authority for HIvIC and all other units not listed below
75.	Associate Administrator - Clinical Support Services
76.	Associate Administrator - Ambulatory Care and Allied Care Services
77.	Associate Administrator - Patient Care Service
78.	Associate Administrator, Finance
79.	Medical Director
UW Medical Center
80	Executive Director, UWMC and all other units not listed bek: ,v
81.	Associate Administrator - Chief Nursing Officer
82.	Associate Administrator - Planning, Marketing, Design & Construction
83.	Associate Administrator -- Patient Financial Services and A< nitting
84.	Associate Administrator - Chief Financial Officer
85.	Associate Administrator - Essential Services
86.	Assistant Administrator - Support Services
87.	Associate Administrator - Ambulatory Services
88.	Associate Administrator - Service Line
89.	Senior Operations Officers
90.	Associate Executive Director
91.	Medical Director’s Office
92.	Planning and Budgeting - Vice Provost for
93.	Provost, Office of the - all Provost's units not delineated as separate units
94.	Educational Outreach - Vice President for
95.	Vice Provost for Research and Dean of Graduate School
96.	University of Washington, Bothell
97.	University of Washington, Tacoma
83
REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLO YEES
APPENDIX VIII
84
APPENDIX VIII
REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
Definition. The term Regular Temporary Employee shall mer i an hourly paid employee doing bargaining unit work for more than 350 hours bi t less than 1,050 hours in any twelve (12) consecutive month period from an ir. rividual’s original employment date in an hourly paid bargaining unit classificatioi । or from January 1,2004, whichever is later, exclusive of overtime worked.
Only the following language from Articles of the Agreement :pply to Regular Temporary Employees:
PREAMBLE AND PURPOSE
Includes Regular Temporary Employees for purposes of descrip I on of bargaining unit.
NONDISCRIMINATION/AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
Nondiscrimination. Neither the Employer nor the Union shall dir criminate against any employee by reason of the following status: age, sex (exc ept where age or sex is a bona fide occupational qualification), race or ethnic or cjin, color, creed, national origin, religion, disability, disabled or Vietnam era /eteran, political affiliation, marit&l status, sexual orientation, or membership or n .nmernbership in a union.
Applicable Law. The Union and the Employer agree to abide b1 and support the applicable statutory and administrative laws pertaining to equsil opportunity and elimination of employment inequities. In order to promote this policy, the Employer will continue its affirmative action program for qualified women, ethnic and racial minorities, persons of disability, persons age fort1 (40) and over, disabled veterans, and Vietnam era veterans.
Sexual Harassment. No employee shall be subjected to disi rimin ation in the form of sexual harassment, currently defined in the Universib, of Washington Handbook (Volume 4, Part 1, Chapter 2) as the use of one's ai thority or power, either explicitly or implicitly, to coerce another into unwanted suxual relations or to punish another for his or her refusal, or as the creation by it member of the University community of an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working or educational environment, through verbal or physical conduct of r sexual nature.
Complaints. A discrimination complaint may be filed with the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office and/or as a grievance in accordance with Article 4 of this Agreement. Employee: may also file
85
discrimination complaints with appropriate federal or state agencies. The parties agree to encourage the filing of discrimination complaints through the University Complaint Investigation and Resolution Office.
UNION MEMBERSHIP, FAIR SHARE AND DUES DEDUCTION
Union Membership and Fair Share Fee. The Union shall fairly represent all employees covered by this Agreement. Therefore, as a condition of employment, Regular Temporary Employees shall, within sixty (60) days of having worked more than 350 hours from an individual’s original date of employment into an hourly paid bargaining unit classification, or from January 1, 2004, whichever is later, either execute a union membership and payroll deduction form or a fair share payroll deduction form and shall have the appropriate fee deducted from their payroll checks. Any employee who is a member of the Union may voluntarily withdraw their membership from the Union and pay a fair share fee by giving written notice to the Union within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement.
Employees who are determined by the Public Employment Relations Commission (PERC) to satisfy the religious exemption requirements of RCW 41.80.100 shall make payments to the Union equivalent to regular union dues and initiation fees for purposes within the program of the Union as designated by the employee that would be in harmony with his or her conscience.
Dues Deduction. Upon written authorization by an individual employee, the Employer shall provide for the semi-monthly payroll deductions of union dues and fair share fees which are uniformly applied to all members in those bargaining units in which the Union is the exclusive bargaining agent.
Indemnification. The Union and each employee authorizing the assignment of wages for the payment of Union dues hereby undertakes to indemnify and hold the University harmless from all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability that may arise against the University for or on account of any deductions made from the wages of such employees.
Remittance of Dues. The Employer shall electronically transmit to the Union on the first bank working day after each payday all dues and fair share fees deducted for that pay period in those bargaining units for which the Union is the exclusive bargaining representative.
Listing of Employees. The Employer shall provide the Union with a semi-monthly listing of all employees with union dues or fair share fee deductions in the designated bargaining units and a monthly listing of all employees in the designated bargaining units who terminated their employment, or changed their employment status, classification or work location. The employer shall provide
86
this information electronically along with bargaining unit pay ates and home addresses.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Definition. A grievance, within the meaning of this Agreement shall be defined as any alleged misapplication or misinterpretation of the terms al this Agreement.
A grievant, within the meaning of this Agreement, shall be defined as an employee within a bargaining unit covered by this Agreemei : who alleges a grievance, the Union alleging a grievance, or the Employer un< er the terms and conditions of this Agreement. An individual grievant may not in1 oke Steps Three or Four of the grievance procedure without authorization "om the Union. Grievances involving discipline shall be submitted to the level :if supervision or designee having authority to act.
Responsibilities. The Union shall prevail upon all employees n the bargaining units and especially stewards to make a diligent and serious <i .tempt to resolve complaints at the lowest possible level. The Employer, likevcse, shall prevail upon its supervisory personnel to cooperate fully with the ste .vards and other Union representatives in the prompt resolution of any grievance^ That may arise.
Employee Grievance Rights. Any employee who believes l ie/she has been aggrieved may personally seek relief from that condition by filing a grievance, irrespective of any supervisor's opinion of the grievance's validity. In the presentation of grievances the employees shall be safe from restraint, interference, discrimination, or reprisal.
Time Limitations. An extension of the time limitations as stipulated in the respective steps below may be obtained by mutual consen1 of the parties. Failure of the employee to comply with the time limitations with out a request for time extension shall constitute automatic withdrawal of the grier-ance- Failure of the Employer to comply with the time limitations without a equest for time extension shall establish the right of the employee to proceed t: the next step of the grievance procedure. For the purposes of calculating time fi-jquirements, the first day shall be the day following the day on which the employ' was aware, or should have reasonably been aware of the issue giving rise in the grievance. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be included in the osculation of days except that the final day may not be on a Saturday, Sunday c: holiday but will end at the close of the first working day Following the Satu day, Sunday or holiday.
Pay Status - Meetings. Meetings and discussions on the grievance held in connection with this grievance procedure shall normally be neld during the University's regular business hours, and no deduction in pa;, status shall be made for the grievant or steward for reasonable time spent in r .uch meetings or
87
discussions during the employee's scheduled duty hours. Time off for employees and stewards shall be granted by supervision following a request, but in consideration of job responsibilities. If the requested time off cannot be granted, the parties shall arrange for time off at the earliest possible time thereafter.
Grievance Withdrawal. A grievance may be withdrawn in writing at any time by mutual agreement of both parties and if withdrawn shall not be resubmitted.
Employee Representation. The Union as exclusive representative of bargaining unit employees is the responsible representative of said employees in grievance matters.
The parties agree that decisions rendered under the prior HEPB process shall not be determinative or precedential for any issue raised under the grievance procedure.
Steps of the Grievance Procedure. All grievances shall be processed only through Step 2, except grievances alleging inaccurate or untimely payment of hourly wages, or failure by the Employer to follow the terms of Article 30 below, which may be processed through Step 4. As long as the hourly rate paid is not lower than the lowest step in the salary range for a position’s assigned classification, and the Employer has followed the terms of Article 30 below, the hourly rate paid is not subject to the grievance procedure.
Step One: Presentation. Within thirty (30) calendar days of the occurrence of a situation, condition, or action which caused the grievance, the employee(s) affected and/or the steward or Union representative shall present the grievance to the employee's immediate supervisor for resolution. Presentation of the grievance shall include a short written description of the subject of the grievance and the contract Articles allegedly violated. If the grievance is directed against the employee's immediate supervisor, the grievance may be presented to the next higher level of supervision. The parties shall attempt to meet to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days. The supervisor will respond within five (5) calendar days of the meeting.
Step Two: If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in Step One, and the employee wishes to pursue the matter further, said grievance shall be put into writing on the authorized grievance form and referred to the department head or designee or to the next appropriate level of management and the Office of Labor Relations within fifteen (15) calendar days after the decision from Step One. The date of alleged occurrence of the grievance shall be specified. The parties shall attempt to meet to resolve the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days following the date of written submittal. At this step the Union agrees to cite all known sections of the Agreement which allegedly have been violated and to provide a copy to the Human Resources Office and Office of Labor Relations. The grievant may be represented by a steward and union staff representative.
88
The University will be represented by the appropriate manafi'ament official, or designee, a representative from the Office of Labor Relations and a human resources consultant, if desired by the University. The Univerr ity will respond in writing within ten (10) calendar days.
Step Three: Grievance Mediation. If a satisfactory settlemen': .s not reached at Step Two, the grievant with authorization from the Union may submit the written grievance to the Office of Labor Relations requesting grievanci .* mediation within fifteen (15) calendar days.
Upon mutual agreement, the Employer and the Union shall request, within ten (10) calendar days, grievance mediation services of the Pi.olic Employment Relations Commission (PERC). If those services are unava 'able on a timely basis, the parties shall immediately request a list of grievance mediators from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS). The cos of the mediation shall be borne equally by both parties.
Step Four: Arbitration. If a satisfactory settlement is not reach ed at Step Two or Step Three, either of the signatory parties to this Agreemen may submit the grievance to binding arbitration. Such submittal must be made within fifteen (15) calendar days following the conclusion of Step Two or Step Tcee. Within sixty (60) calendar days of the execution of the Agreement, the pah es agree to meet to establish a permanent panel of three (3) - five (5) ar ritrators. These arbitrators shall be assigned cases by the parties on a rota! ig basis. If the arbitrator is not available to hear the case within sixty (60) calendar days of the decision by either party to go to arbitration, the parties will contact the next arbitrator in the rotation. If no arbitrator can hear the case within sixty (60) calendar days, the case will be assigned to the arbitrator who .an hear the case on the earliest date. The appointment to the panel will be for the first eighteen (18) months of the Agreement at which time either party rrn:.y decide not to continue the appointment. If an individual arbitrator decides Io remove his/her name from the panel or if one or more members of the panel ire not continued by either party, the parties will meet to decide whether to subst ,ute an additional name(s).
Until the panel is implemented, the parties will select an arbitrator using the procedure in the November 16, 1999-November 15, 2002 contact. The parties agree that the arbitrator shall have no power to render a decii on that adds to, subtracts from, alters or modifies in any way the terms and conditions of the Agreement. The parties further agree that The decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon all parties. The cost of the arbitratic ■ shall be borne equally by the parties and each party shall bear the full cost of । resenting its own case. The arbitrator's decision shall be made in writing and the rbitrator shall be encouraged to render the decision within thirty (30) calendar days of the close of the arbitration.
89
In cases where a grievance is moved to arbitration, and the parties did not avail themselves of Step Three: Grievance Mediation, the moving party shall have the unilateral right to demand a pre-arbitration settlement conference. These conferences shall not delay the arbitration process, and may be held with or without the presence of the arbitrator, at the option of the moving party. In the event that an arbitrator is present, the cost of the arbitrator’s participation shall be borne equally by the parties.
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Hours of work for Regular Temporary Employees shall be established by the employing official. Work assigned in excess of forty (40) hours in a seven (7) day work week constitutes overtime. Overtime hours will be compensated at a rate of one-and-one-half (1-1/2) times the employee’s straight time hourly rate.
EMPLOYMENT
Policy. It is the policy of the University to encourage job advancement. It is the responsibility of each employee seeking employment to provide the employer with complete information regarding the employee’s skills and qualifications relative to the position sought. The Employer will make the application process, necessary submittals and the essential skills of the vacant position clear to prospective applicants.
Notice that applications are being accepted for bargaining unit positions will be published by the Employer and will be made available in places intended to reach bargaining unit employees for a minimum of seven (7) days prior to the closing of the application period. The University may limit the scope of the posting area if applications only from within the posting area are accepted. Active Regular Temporary Employees may apply for department/unit specific openings if they have worked in the department/unit within the past calendar year.
The Employer will determine If applicants possess the essential skills required of the position. Essential skills are the minimum qualifications listed in the job description for the classification and any specific position requirements. The Employer will refer all bargaining unit applicants (including Regular Temporary Employees) possessing the essential skills prior to referring any non-bargaining unit applicants. In accordance with applicable law, affirmative action goals will be considered when filling vacancies.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Regular Temporary Employees are subject to all terms of the Agreement at such time as a Regular Temporary Employee is appointed to a monthly paid
90
bargaining unit position. This includes the requirement to se se a probationary period.
A Regular Temporary Employee who is hired into the same jot; without a break in service, in the same unit through open recruitment will h we their Regular Temporary hours of service apply toward their probationa v period for that position up to a maximum of three (3) months of the six (6) n :>nth probationary period.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Policies. It is the Employer's intent to make reasonable and pr ;per provisions for the maintenance of appropriate standards of health and safety within the workplace. The Employer shall comply with applicable Feder; I and State health and safety legislation and regulations and has designate: the University's Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) Department to & Ivise and monitor compliance with such standards.
When it is established through medical documentation that a i isabling condition or physical limitation prohibits continued performance of the en ployee’s assigned duties, the employer will attempt to assist the employee thro, :;h reassignment, transfer, or reconfiguration of job duties.
Employees who believe that working conditions present a hazard to their health should first alert their supervisor. All employees are encoi raged to contact Environmental Health and Safety to report hazardous conditions. If a supervisor or Environmental Health and Safety declares a work site to I e hazardous and unfit for work, affected employees may be assigned to alternative work sites until the hazardous condition is rectified. If assignment to an alternative work site is not possible and the supervisor decides to send the employees home, those employees sent home will receive their regular pay for all timi ? the employee is scheduled to work on the day of the incident. For all sub sequent days the employee(s) may use accrued leave as appropriate.
Health Examinations. The Employer shall provide at no cost :o the employee, such medical tests or health examinations as may be required as a condition of employment.
Safety. All work shall be performed in conformity with applicable safety standards. Employees are encouraged to immediately report a ty unsafe working conditions to their supervisor. No employee shall be disciplined for reporting any such condition nor be required to work or to operate equipment when he/she has reasonable grounds to believe such action would result in immediate danger to life or safety until the condition has been reviewed by a Unit n Steward and a higher level of supervision, if the matter is not resolved satisfactorily, the supervisor or employee may request a decision from the Univei city's Department of Environmental Health and Safety or the Department of Labor :ind Industries.
91
Safety Committees. Bargaining unit employees shall be appropriately represented on any organizational health and safety committees for areas in which they are employed, as detailed in Administrative Policy Statements 10.11. Any department or unit committee also dealing with health and safety issues in work areas shall appropriately involve bargaining unit employees. It shall also be appropriate for either party to raise health and safety concerns at the Joint Union/Management Committee.
Ergonomics. The Employer shall maintain a separate section in the Administrative Policy Statements that reference the ergonomic requirements of WAC 296-62-051. Further ergonomic guidelines shall be referenced on the Environmental Health and Safety department website www.ehs.washington.edu.
Workplace Review. The parties recognize that there are several elements in a work site which may affect individual health, comfort and productivity. The Employer shall conduct routine hazard assessments of any worksite that may contain health hazards as required by WAC. The Employer shall provide awareness education to help reduce identified hazards. Employees may also request a workplace review by the employing department and employees shall be given the results of the review.
RECORDS
Bargaining Unit. A current list of names, classifications, and departments of all bargaining unit employees will be provided annually to the Union at cost.
Personnel File. To the extent personnel records are kept for Regular Temporary Employees, upon written request by an employee to their area Human Resources Office (official personnel file) or department manager (departmental file), the employee or employee's representative shall have access to the employee's official or departmental personnel file for review. Upon the employee's request, the employee may receive copies of any materials in the file (requests for reasonable numbers of copies will be provided at no cost to the employee; employees may be charged a fee for requests for large numbers of copies). Prior to such review the Director or designee may remove any letters of reference which were obtained through assurances of confidentiality to a third party. Such letters shall only be used for the purposes of hiring and/or promotional application.
Employees shall be provided a copy of all adverse material placed in the official file at the time the material is included in the file.
(a)	Information shall be retained as long as it has a reasonable bearing on the employee's job performance or upon the efficient and effective management of the institution.
92
Adverse material or information related to employee misi onduct or alleged misconduct which is determined to be false and all such information in situations where the employee has been fully exonerati :i of wrong doing shall be promptly destroyed,
(b)	Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, an insVAution may retain information relating to employee misconduct or alleged rr sconduct, if:
(1)	The employee requests that the information be reta -ied; or
(2)	The information is related to pending legal action oi .egal actions may reasonable be expected to result:.
The employee shall have the right to have placed in hisAi :>r own personnel file a statement of rebuttal or correction of information c itained in the file within a reasonable period of time after the employee bec omes aware that the information has been placed in the file.
Request for Information. To the extent such records are kept for Regular Temporary Employees, the Employer shall make available tc: the Union, upon written request, records and reports regarding personnel issu s, such as home addresses, employment date and reclassification requests, concerning those classifications in the bargaining units, provided that this shai1 not require the Employer to disclose any records not subject to disclosure under the Public Disclosure Act of the State of Washington or to maintain or a; semble any data which it would not otherwise assemble for its own use. Inl irmation shall be provided electronically where feasible.
TRAVEL PAY AND WORK TIME
General. Any employee required to travel to a place of work ither than his/her regular official duty station shall be reimbursed for travel c: sts if eligible, in accordance with University of Washington Administrative P .licy Statements, Section 70.
FACILITIES
Meeting Facilities. The Union shall be permitted to use the Ei ployer's facilities for meetings provided advance notice is given to the Emphyer, appropriate space is available on the date requested, and meetings are hi Id in accordance with the Employer's policy on this subject.
93
Bulletin Boards,
(a)	Space shall be made available to the Union on bulletin boards in those areas where bargaining unit members work or frequent, for the posting of notices and information pertaining to official business of the Union. Such posted material is to be signed by a Union representative.
(b)	If it is established that adequate space is not available at a convenient location, the Union may provide for and have installed a bulletin board at its own expense, provided the size and location of said bulletin board shall be mutually agreeable to the Union representative and the Employer,
Employee Facilities.
(a)	Restrooms and attendant facilities shall be provided as required by the State of Washington Department of Labor and Industries. Dressing rooms and/or lockers shall be provided to employees in those classifications where a change of clothing is required by the Employer.
(b)	The adequacy of employee facilities, including sanitary supply dispensers for female employees, shall be a proper subject for discussion by the Joint Union-Management Committee.
JOINT UNION MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Committee Purpose and Membership. A Joint Union-Management Committee is established to provide a forum for communications between the two (2) parties and to deal with matters of general Union/Employer concern. The committee's function will be limited to an advisory capacity and shall not include any decisionmaking or collective bargaining authority.
Committee membership shah consist of three (3) bargaining unit employees and a Union staff representative and four (4) Employer representatives to include the Executive Director for Labor Relations or designee.
The Employer will discuss with representatives of the Union significant changes affecting institutional conditions of employment generally affecting bargaining unit employees sufficiently in advance of the targeted implementation date of said changes so that reasonable alternative proposals can be adequately considered by the Joint Union-Management Committee. Diversity, child care and tuition exemption shall be considered appropriate subjects for the Joint Union-Management Committee.
Meetings. Committee meetings may be requested by an authorized representative of either party. Requests for a quarterly meeting shall be
94
honored; however, once convened, the committee may nrset more or less frequently as mutually agreed between the parties.
At least one (1) week's notice shall be given to members of any agreed upon meeting and the agenda. Committee meetings shall norma y be held during University business hours and at a mutually agreeable time an .1 date. Employee members shall experience no loss in salary for meeting participation; however, meeting times are not construed as work time and no overtime shall be claimed or paid for meetings attended outside the employee member;:' regular working hours.
Limitations. Committee meeting topics shall be limited to subje :ts of group rather than individual concern, and the committee shall not discuss gi levances properly processed under Article 4 of the Agreement. Further, it is not ntended that this Article obligate in any way either party to negotiate on personni matters covered in this Agreement or to alter, limit, restrict, or reduce prerogati . es of either party otherwise provided in this Agreement.
Use of Temporary Employees. Issues concerning the i ue of temporary employees who work beyond 1,050 hours from the employee's original University of Washington temporary employment date, shall be an appropriate subject for discussion in the Joint Union Management Committee meeting. Such issues may include, but will not be limited to, the continuous an<i ongoing use of temporary employees as well as the possibility of alten ate employment opportunities.
CONTRACT DISTRIBUTION
The University and the Union shall share the cost of printing Ihe Agreement for present and new employees in the bargaining units.
Distribution.
(a)	The employer shall include a copy of the Agi eement at each Reference Station and shall provide a copy to new employees in the bargaining unit.
(b)	The Union shall provide a copy of the Agreement to present employees in the bargaining units. The Emp oyer shall allow distribution through campus mail.
New Employees
(a)	The Employer shall provide to the Union, at least monthly, a list of new employees in the bargaining units, including the employee's name, classification, department, and mail stop.
95
(b)	The Employer will distribute to each new employee in the bargaining units, with a copy of this Agreement, a letter from the Union. Such letter will be provided to the Employer by the Union and the contents of the letter shall be mutually agreeable.
(c)	A bargaining unit member designated by the Union shall be granted paid release time to attend new employee orientation and/or new employee coffee hours scheduled by the University. Such release time will be subject to the operational needs of the department.
COMPENSATION
Salary schedules for Regular Temporary Employees shall be incorporated into this Agreement as Appendices IV and V.
If a bargaining unit Regular Temporary Employee leaves an appointment and is later reemployed by the same department/unit in the same or substantially similar appointment, the employee will be paid an hourly rate not less than their previous wage in the department/unit.
AH positions filled by Regular Temporary Employees shall continue to receive the premiums and differentials they received prior to July 1, 2005, including any increases in the amounts of those premiums and differentials as provided for in this Agreement.
NO STRIKE/LOCKOUT
The Employer and the Union acknowledge that this Agreement provides, through the grievance procedure and through other administrative remedies, for an orderly settlement of grievances or disputes which may arise between the parties. Accordingly, the parties agree that the public interest requires the uninterrupted performance of all University services and to this end pledge to prevent or eliminate any conduct contrary to that objective. Therefore, during the life of the Agreement the Employer shall not lockout any of the employees as a result of a labor dispute or grievance or disputes on personnel matters nor shall the Union condone or authorize a work stoppage, work slowdown, or any other curtailment of work in the bargaining units.
Should the employees engage in any unauthorized concerted action, a Joint Union/Management Committee shall immediately convene and shall continue to meet until the dispute is settled, and the employees involved shall immediately return to work and continue working. Any employee who refuses to perform his/her work may be subject to disciplinary action.
96
There will be no strike or lockout regarding any matters pertaining to the contents of this Agreement.
Any action of the Employer in closing the University during a general strike, riot, or civil disturbance for the protection of the institution, its property, or its employees shall not be deemed a lockout.
Any action of an employee in refusing to cross, for his/her own personal safety, a picket line at the Employer's premises in case of an officially declared strike by some other employee organization or union representing employees working for the Employer shall not constitute a violation of this clause of the Agreement, provided, however, that such a decision shall be made freely by the employee without coercion by either the Employer or the Union and provided further that nothing herein shall preclude the Employer from continuing to operate the University with or without temporary replacement personnel.
SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT AND SAVINGS CLAUSE
Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part of provision of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof; provided, however, upon such invalidation the parties agree immediately to meet and negotiate such parts or provisions affected. The remaining parts or provisions shall remain in full force and effect.
DURATION
This Agreement shall become effective July 1, 2007 and remain in force through June 30, 2009. Automatic renewal shall extend the terms of this Agreement for one year at a time, unless either party serves the other with written notice at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the anniversary date of its intent to negotiate a new Agreement. Should notice be served, bargaining shall begin within thirty (30) calendar days following the date of the notice for the purpose of negotiating a new Agreement.
97
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER A - UNIVERSITY BUDGET COMMI TEE
July 1,2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President
SEIU Local 925
3647 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
It is my understanding that during contract negotiations, the Unii m has expressed an interest in having access to the University Budget Committer (UBC) in order to provide input on budget decisions affecting bargaining unit mi ’rnbers.
The Executive Vice President has been requested by the Univemity Budget Committee to provide summary information to a number of grou ,;s and organizations having an interest in budget decisions, which may affect staff employees. In this regard, the Executive Vice President has in I ie past met with your Union's Policy Board, and it would be my intent to do so in ne future at your request.
Further, in the event the University is required by external mand ne to reduce its budget during the term of a biennium, this office will provide the Union with a copy of any budget reduction plan developed by the UBC and si icit your comments regarding the plan prior to its submission to the Regr; -its for their review and action.
Sincerely,
Weldon Ihrig
Executive Vice Preside n
University of Washingt 11
98
Seattle., Wdbhiri^tojt 4S197
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER B - KRONOS
July 1,200?
Ms. Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone Way N. Seattle, WA 93103
Dear Ms. Cook:
The University has the right to implement the ' Kronos" timekeej: ig system sometime during the life of the Agreement. The University will r jtify the Union at least 60 days in advance and agrees to consult with the Union ever implementation issues.
Sincerely,
Weldon Ihrig
Executive Vice Preside
University of Washing^ m
99
Seattle, Washington 98195
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER C - REGULAR TEMPORARY EMPL< <YEES
July 1,2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President
SEIU Local 925
3647 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
In addition to the language contained in Appendix VIII - Regular Temporary Employees, the parties agree to the following:
After initial inclusion in a Local 925 bargaining unit, an employe ;j will continue to be included in the bargaining unit in subsequent years if the 3i 3 hour threshold was met in the previous year.
The University will give a Union-provided ‘Welcome Letter” and u Union-provided payroll deduction form to each member of the bargaining unit ; s they cross the 350-hour threshold.
The Union and the University agree that an employee signa .ure on a Union Payroll Deduction form is valid from year to year as long as a r: gular temporary employee remains in the bargaining unit.
Weldon Ihrig
Executive Vice President
University of Washington
Kim Cook President SEIU Local 925
100
Se.ittlL', Wa^im^ton 9^195
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER D - REPRESENTATION
July 1,2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone Way N. Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
The University agrees not to oppose the Union's effort to add ':i the bargaining unit employees working in the non-healthcare titles outlined by rli- proposal to the University on May 25, 2006. The University will reply to Pu )lic Employment Relations Commission (PERC) requests for information within PERC’s prescribed timeline. The University will also agree to any PETC hearing date within four (4) weeks of the filing of any petition. The parties ca - mutually agree to the extension of these deadlines.
vveioon mng
Executive Vice Presider University of Washingtoi
101
Seattle, Washington 9 J195
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER E - PROFESSIONAL STAFF EXEMP IONS
July 1, 2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
The Union agrees to an expedited review of any future proposal ■■ for professional staff exemptions as follows:
1.	The University will make reallocations based on a[ plication of the professional staff exemption criteria set forth in RCW 41.1'5.070 (including any permanent and substantive changes in the duties, responsibilities or qualifications of the position.
2.	The Union and the University agree to a procedure 1 at includes the provision of information by the University and a meeting I'dth the Union to discuss and resolve issues regarding the transfer o.1 work from the bargaining unit within four (4) weeks of the University’s ir rial notice to the union for a proposed professional staff exemption.
3.	All negotiations regarding transfer of any work from thr bargaining unit shall be concluded by the meeting described above, un uss both parties agree to an extension.
4.	Disputes regarding professional staff exemptions shall b< resolved by the classification review hearing officer in Article 14 c the collective bargaining agreement. The Hearing Officer shall make his/her decision based on the criteria outlined in paragraph one (1) above. If the employee appeals the exemption determination in any ather forum the Union cannot pursue the determination through the process outlined in Article 14.
The Union agrees to withdraw all current challenges to the Univt <sity’s proposed professional staff exemptions dated July 1,2005 to August 16, 2(716.
102
Joint Union Management Committee - The University and SEIU Local 925 have a shared interest in meeting to discuss the current framework in which University Staff are reallocated from the bargaining unit to professional staff positions.
During the terms of the Agreement, the parties will work in good faith to mutually agree upon a framework that is more consistent with the interests of both parties.
Unless mutually agreed to by the parties these provisions will expire with the expiration of the contract on June 30, 2009.
Weldon Ihrig
Executive Vice President
University of Washington
Kim Cook President SEIU Local 925
1 03
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SIDE LETTER F - HEALTH CARE SETTLEMEF "
July 1, 2007
Ms. Kim Cook, President SEIU Local 925 3647 Stone Way N.
Seattle, WA 98103
Dear Ms. Cook:
As a full and complete settlement of the grievance over health c: ie funding rates and employee contributions for fiscal years 2006 and 2007, employees shall receive a one-time payment of seven hundred and fifty-six dollar: ($756.00) to be dispersed on July 25,2007 only to employees who are:
a.	Insurance eligible for the month of June, 2007, and
b.	Covered by a 2007 - 2009 Collective Bargaining A; reement negotiated pursuant to RCW 41.80.
Sincerely,
Executive Vice Presider :
University of Washingtoi i
104
Seattle, Washington S8195