Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Rensselaer County and United Public Service Employees Union (2003) (MOA)
K#: 820289
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.comell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
By and Between

and the
UNITED PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION
UPSEU )
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION 1 PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT ....................................1
>	SECTION 2
SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT..................................1
SECTION 3 AFFIRMATION NOT TO STRIKE ..............................1
SECTION 4 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UNIT .............................2
SECTION 5 COLLECTION OF DUES ..........................................2
SECTION 6 EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION RIGHTS.................................4
SECTION 7 RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYER.......................................5
SECTION 8 RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYEES.................................6
SECTION 9 EMPLOYEE STATUS AND BENEFITS............................6
SECTION 10 COMPENSATION,'SALARY....................................8
SECTION 11 HOURS OF WORK..........................................14
SECTION 12 TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS...................................... 16
SECTION 13 JOB SECURITY................................................17
SECTION 14 HOLIDAYS...............................................21
SECTION 15 LEAVE WITH PAY.........................................22
SECTION 16 SENIORITY...............................................25
SECTION 17 SICK LEAVE..............................................25
SECTION 18	t
PERSONAL LEAVE ..........................................26	'
SECTION 19 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE .....................................,27
SECTION 20 VERIFICATION OF LEAVE CREDITS ..........................27
SECTION 21 LEAVES OF ABSENCE.......................................27
SECTION 22 LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY...........................28
SECTION 23 UNAUTHORIZED LEAVE WITHOUT PAY ..............................30
SECTION 24 HEALTH AND DENTAL INSURANCE ............................30
SECTION 25 RETIREMENT ..................................................34
SECTION 26 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ................................... 34
SECTION 27 ARBITRATION ............................................37
SECTION 28 PAST PRACTICE...........................................38
SECTION 29 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS ...............................38
SECTION 30 UNIFORM ALLOWANCE ......................................40
SECTION 31 DRUG & ALCOHOL POLICY...................................41
ADDENDUM I
TITLES EXCLUDED FROM THE BARGAINING UNIT.....................44
ADDENDUM II TITLES INCLUDED IN THE BARGAINING UNIT.................46
ADDENDUM III SALARY SCHEDULE .......................................52
1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO 8/1 3/97} ..............52
SALARY/HOURLY RATE SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO 8/13/97) ...............54
SALARY SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED 8/13/97 ON) .....................56
SALARY/HOURLY RATE SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED 8/13/97 ON) .....................58
SALARY SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES 8/13/97 ON) ................................59
SALARY SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO 8/13/97) ...............60
ADDENDUM IV CDL DRUG TESTING POLICY................................61
APPENDIX A DENTAL BENEFIT SCHEDULE................................62
EXHIBITS 1 & 2 HEALTH BENEFITS & LEVELS OF BENEFITS...................63
EXHIBIT 3
HEALTH BENEFITS FEE SCHEDULE FOR LESS-THAN-FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES
.......................................................64
SECTION 1
PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT
1.1	The parties to this Agreement are the County of Rensselaer hereinafter referred to as the "Employer" and United Public Service Employees Union as the "Union”.
1.2	The employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive representative of all employees determined to be in the negotiating unit in any and all proceedings under the Public Employees Fair Employment Act for the term of this agreement.
SECTION 2
SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT
2.1	It is understood and agreed by the parties to this Agreement that any provisions of this Agreement requiring legislative action to permit its implementation by amendment or law or by providing the additional funds therefore, shall not become effective until the appropriate legislative body has given approval.
2.2	It is understood and agreed by the parties to this Agreement that any provision inconsistent with or contrary to law or rules and regulations having the force and effect of law shall be considered as deleted from the Agreement without harm to the remaining provisions of the Agreement.
2.3	If any Section or clause of this Agreement or any addendum thereto should be
-	held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal or competent jurisdiction, or
if compliance with or enforcement of any Section or clause should be restrained by such tribunal, the remainder of this Agreement and addenda shall not be affected thereby, and the parties shall enter into immediate collective negotiations for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such Section.	’
SECTION 3
AFFIRMATION NOT TO STRIKE
3.1	The Union shall not engage in a strike, nor shall the Union cause, instigate, encourage or condone a strike.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 1
SECTION 4
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UNIT
4J The Union is recognized as the sole and exclusive representative of all employees with the exception of those employees listed below:
a.	All elected and appointed officials;
b.	Heads of all departments, and such departmental deputies as noted in Addendum I of this Agreement;
c.	All part-time employees who regularly work less than one-half (%} the normal work week;
d.	All seasonal employees;
e.	All personnel employed by Hudson Valley Community College;
f.	All personnel employed by the Sheriff's Department;
g.	All employees serving in the positions designated as Management or Confidential as set forth in Addendum I attached hereto and incorporated herein by the reference.
4.2 Any positions not covered by the terms of Section 1 which are established subsequent to the date of execution of this Agreement shall be reviewed by the Employer and the Union for the purpose of incorporating such positions in either Addendum I or Addendum II of this Agreement. The Employer and the Union agree to meet quarterly to make such determinations. If no agreement can be made on the placement of the title, both parties agree to submit the title to the Public Employment Relations Board for a final decision. In the interim, the title will not be placed in either Addendum I or Addendum II of the Agreement until a decision from the Public Employment Relations Board is rendered.
SECTION 5
COLLECTION OF DUES
5.1	MEMBERSHIP DUES
The employer shall deduct from the wages of employees and remit to United Public Service Employees Union, regular membership dues and other UPSEU authorized deductions for those employees who have signed the appropriate payroll deduction authorization(s) permitting such deduction and no other employee organization shall be accorded such payroll deduction privilege.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 2
5.2	AGENCY SHOP
UPSEU shall have exclusive rights to payroll deductions of dues and union sponsored insurance and benefit program premiums for employees covered by this agreement.
The County shall notify all employees who are currently on the payroll within the titles covered by this Agreement that those employees who are not members of the Union shall have deducted from their salary an agency fee.
Every employee appointed after the effective date of this provision who does not join the Union at the time of appointment shall have an agency fee deducted. If the employee joins the Union, such agency fee deduction shall be discontinued. On the same date the dues check-off authorization takes effect. The Union shall be obligated to immediately provide the County with the name of any employee in connection with whom such agency fee deduction should be discontinued.
An employee who terminates Union membership shall have deducted from his/her salary an agency fee. Such agency fee shall be effective on the same date as the revocation of authorization for dues deduction takes effect.
The agency fee for each employee covered by this agreement shall be deducted from the employee's regular paycheck only, shall be in an amount equal to the periodic dues levied by the Union for employees in the affected titles, and shall be deducted in accordance with the same rules and procedures currently employed by the County in connection with the authorized dues deduction. The Union shall certify to the County the appropriate amount of rate for the agency fee deduction.
Changes in the amount of any agency fee deduction shall be effective at the same times as is the practice with change in membership dues deductions. Request for changes in the rate of dues deductions shall be deemed to be a request for a change in the agency fee.
Upon receipt by the County of notice of change in the amount of the agency . fee deductions, employees having the agency fee deducted shall be notified, in writing, by the payroll office of the change in the amount to be deducted periodically and the date on which such new deduction will begin. A copy of this notice shall be sent to the Union.
The Union shall refund to the employees any agency fees wrongfully deducted and transmitted to the Union.
No assessments of any kind or nature will be collected through the agency fee deduction.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 3
The County shall not be liable in the operation of the agency fee or dues deduction for any mistake or error of judgment or any other act of omission or commission, and the Union agrees for itself, its successors and assigns to at all times indemnify the County against any and all claims, suits, actions, costs, charges and expenses including court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees, and against all liability and losses and damages of any nature whatsoever that the County shall or may at any time sustain or be put to by reason of the inclusion of the above agency fee article in the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Union and the County.
The Union affirms that it has established and will maintain a procedure which provides for the refund as required by 208(3)(b) of the Civil Service Law. Dues, agency fees, and insurance and benefit premiums, if any, shall be paid to the United Public Service Employees Union.
SECTION 6
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION RIGHTS
6.1	REPRESENTATION
Under the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Union shall have the sole and exclusive right with respect to other employee organizations to:
a.	Designate its own representatives and to appear before any appropriate official of the Employer to effect such representations;
b.	Direct, manage and govern its own affairs;
c.	Determine those matters which the membership wishes to negotiate and to pursue all such objectives free from any interference, restraint, coercion or discrimination by the Employer or any of its agents;
d.	Pursue any matter or issue covered by this Agreement through the grievance and appeal procedures contained herein.
6.2	EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION LEAVE
6.2.1	The employer shall grant a total of thirty-five (35) work days of employee organization leave annually. Effective January 1, 1998, such leave shall be increased to a total of forty (40) work days and effective January 1, 1999 to fifty (50) work days annually.
The union shall be permitted to have its members utilize the above days for the purpose of attending union conferences, training, conventions and meetings.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 4
Shop stewards designated by the union for use of the time set forth above shall submit to their department head or his/her designee and to the Director of Personnel a notice of intent on the official form agreed to by the parties of this agreement to take such leave five (5) work days prior to its commencement.
It is agreed that release of individuals may be subject to staffing needs. The County agrees not to unreasonably deny such requests.
6.2.2	The Employer shall grant a reasonable amount of time to one of eight (8) work location representatives or a Union officer when attendance by such representative is essential to the processing of employee grievances. Such time may be taken only upon notice to the department head of his/her designee.
6.2.3	The Union shall provide to the Director of Personnel thirty (30) days after the execution of this Agreement and quarterly thereafter a list of Union officers, work location representatives and other employees eligible for employee organization leave, together with the official departments, agencies and offices of such employees.
6.3	NEGOTIATING UNIT MONTHLY REPORT
The Employer shall deliver to any one (1) individual designated by the Union a monthly report listing employee name, address, title, original date of hire, department, and annual/hourly salary. Such report will cover only those employees listed in Addendum II of this Agreement.
SECTION 7
RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYER
7.1	Except as expressly limited by statute or by other provisions of this Agreement, the Employer has and retains the sole right and responsibility to take whatever actions may be necessary to carry out the mission of the Employer. Such rights and responsibilities include, but are not necessarily limited to the following:
a.	To determine the mission, purposes, objectives and policies of the County;
b.	To determine the standards of services to be offered by its offices, agencies, and departments;
c.	To determine the facilities, methods, means and number of personnel required for the conduct of County programs;
d.	To hire, promote, transfer, assign, reassign, and retain employees, and to evaluate employees in accordance with procedures set forth in the Rensselaer County Policy & Procedures Manual;
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 5
e.	To discipline or discharge employees in accordance with law and the provisions of this Agreement;
f.	To direct, deploy and utilize the work force; and,
g.	To maintain the efficiency of government operations.
S££T1QN_8
RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYEES
8.1	UNION MEMBERSHIP
Any employee covered by the provisions of this Agreement shall be free to join or to refrain from joining the Union without fear of coercion, reprisal or penalty from the Union or the Employer. Employees may join and take an active role in the activities of the Union without fear of any kind of reprisals from the Employer or its agents.
8.2	UNION REPRESENTATION
An employee may bring matters of personal concern to the attention of the appropriate Employer's representatives and officials in accordance with applicable procedures, laws and rules, and may choose his own representative or appear alone in a grievance or appeal proceeding, with the exception that the Union must be permitted entrance to all such proceedings and must be informed of any formal decisions rendered in the case, except as hereinafter provided.
8.3	UNION EXCLUSION FROM PROCEEDINGS
It is understood and agreed that the Union will be excluded from all such proceedings upon the request of the affected employee and upon a determination by the hearing officer that, for good cause, the Union should be excluded. In the case of an exclusion, the Union shall be informed of any formal decisions rendered in the case. It is further understood and agreed upon that no other employee organization may represent an employee in such situation.
SECTION 9
EMPLOYEE STATUS AND BENEFITS
9.1	FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES
A full-time employee, who on a regular schedule works thirty-five (35) or more hours per week in a 35 hour per week department or forty (40) or more hours
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 6
per week in a 40 hour per week department shall be entitled to full contract benefits.
9.2	LESS THAN FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES
A non-full-time employee, who on a regular schedule works seventeen and one-half (17.5} or more hours per week in a 35 hour per week department or twenty (20} or more hours per week in a 40 hour per week department, shall be entitled to contract benefits on a pro-rated basis.
9.3	PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
A part-time employee, defined as an employee who on a regular schedule works less than seventeen and one-half (17.5) hours per week in a 35 hour per week department or less than twenty (20) hours per week in a 40 hour per week department shall not be entitled to contract benefits.
9.4	CONTINGENT-PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
A contingent-permanent employee shall be entitled to the same benefits as a permanent employee relative to sick leave, personal leave, vacation leave, holidays and salary.
9.5	PROVISIONAL EMPLOYEES
A provisional employee shall be entitled to the same benefits as a permanent employee relative to sick leave, personal leave, vacation leave, holidays and salary.
9.6	TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
The following employees shall be entitled to the same benefits as a permanent employee relative to sick leave, personal leave, vacation leave, holidays and salary.
9.6.1	A competitive class employee serving on a temporary basis in a position encumbered due to the provisional promotion of another employee;
9.6.2	A competitive class employee serving on a temporary basis in a position encumbered due to the taking of a leave of absence by another employee;
9.6.3	A competitive class employee serving on a temporary basis in a position encumbered pending completion of the probationary period by another employee permanently appointed to another position;
9.6.4	An employee serving on a temporary basts in a position for which qualifications have not yet been established by the Bureau of Personnel;
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 7
9.6.5	An employee serving on a temporary basis in a position where the anticipated duration of employment is six (6) or more months.
9.7	The following temporary employees shall not be entitled to contract benefits:
9.7.1	An employee serving on a temporary basis pending the establishment of Rensselaer County residency. However, the full-time service of the employee shall be credited toward sick leave, vacation leave and salary advancement when the establishment of Rensselaer County residency leads to the granting of a permanent or provisional appointment;
9.7.2	With the exception of those employees covered by Section 9.6, all employees serving on a temporary basis where the anticipated duration of employment is less than six (6) months are not entitled to contract benefits. However, the fulltime service of the employee shall be credited toward sick leave, vacation leave and salary advancement if and when permanent, contingent-permanent or provisional status is granted.
SECTION 10
COMPENSATION/SALARY
10.1	ANNUAL WAGE INCREASE
Effective January 1, 1997, there shall be a 2% increase;
Effective the first full payroll of July 1997 an additional 1% increase.
Effective January 1, 1998, there shall be a 3% increase;
Effective January 1, 1999, there shall be a 3.25% increase;
Effective January 1, 2000, there shall be a 3.5% increase.
Retroactive pay shall be paid to employees by separate check no later than October 31, 1997.
COMPENSATION/SALARY:	.
For the purpose of determining hourly rates of pay set forth in Addendum III (hourly employees!, the rate of pay in effect January 1, 1997 (261 day rate) shall be used in all computations.
In the event there are more than 261 work days in a year, employees shall receive compensatory time for such additional time to be used subject to the terms specified in the settlement of grievance # G-96010.
10.2	PERSONNEL/POSITION CHANGES
The annual/hourly salary of employees hired on January 1, 1988, and thereafter, and those employees hereafter promoted, reclassified, reallocated or
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 8
demoted, shall be tn accordance with Addendum III and Section 10 of this Agreement.
10.3	LONGEVITY INCREMENTS
In recognition of continuous years of service with the County, the Employer shall grant a longevity increment in accordance with the following schedule:
5 years - $260.00
10 years - $260.00
15 years - $560.00
20 years - $610.00
25 years - $660.00
30 years - $710.00
35 years - $860.00
40 years - $1,000.00
Such an increment shall be added to an employee's annual salary on his/her anniversary date.
Effective January 1, 1998, increase longevity as follows:
5 years - $20.00
15 years - $40.00
25 years - $100.00
35 years - $100.00
10 years - $30.00
20 years - $50.00
30 years - $100.00
40 years - $100.00
It is agreed that such longevity amounts shall have a cumulative increasing effect upon employees' longevity increment eligibility and all employees within the schedule shall receive the cumulative increases for their respective years of service (ie: upon completion or having 20 years of employment on or after January 1, 1998, $140.00 longevity increase; 35 years, $440.00, etc. computed as follows $20 + $30 + $40 + $50 + $100 + $100 + $100 + $100). Further employees shall receive eligibility for the increased longevity set forth herein for service time he/she has, ie: 22 years - employee receives $ 140.00 increase January 1, 1998, and next increase after 25 years in accordance with Collective Bargaining Agreement.
This provision does not effect any past longevity paid and starts with longevity paid in 1998. Longevity will be paid in accordance with the following schedule effective January 1, 1998.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 9
SERVICE	NEW INCREMENT	CUMULATIVE MINIMUM TOTAL
5 years - + 20	280	280
10 years - + 30	290	570
15 years - + 40	600	1,170
20 years - + 50	660	1,830
25 years - +100	760	2,590
30 years - + 100	810	3,400
35 years - + 100	960	4,360
40 years - + 100	1,100	5,460
10.4	SEWER DISTRICT AND DETENTION HOWIE EMPLOYEES
The annual salaries of employees who serve in the following titles shall include an additional $700.00 in order to compensate for rotating shifts and weekend assignments:
Houseparent
Senior Houseparent
Wastewater Plant Operator
Processing Technician I
Processing Technician II
Computer Operator
Effective January 1, 1998, the above amount shall be increased to $750.00 and effective January 1, 2000 to $800.00.
10.4	.a	SEWER DISTRICT STIPEND: Effective January 1 ,1998, all Sewer
Department employees shall receive a $350.00 annual stipend.
10.5	VAN RENSSELAER MANOR AND INFIRMARY EMPLOYEES
To compensate for evening and weekend assignments, those employees working more than twenty (20) hours per week shall receive the following differentials;
10.5.1	NURSING STAFF
. Evening: 3:00 pm - 11:00 pm and 11:00 pm - 7:00 am
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 10
	1997	1998	1999	2000
LPN	815.00	850.00	875.00	900.00
Registered Professional Nurse	1,040.00	1,080.00	1,105.00	1,130.00
Assistant Supervisor of Nursing	1,190.00	1,240.00	1,265.00	1,290.00
Weekend: Employees in the above titles who are required to work on Saturday or Sunday (the first shift beginning at 7:00 a.m. on Saturday and the last shift ending at 7:00 a.m. on Monday) shall receive an additional $3.50 per hour.
10.5.2	OTHER EMPLOYEES
Evening: 3:00 pm - 11:00 pm and 11:00 pm - 7:00 am
Employees required to work either of the above shifts shall receive an additional $.30 per hour. Effective January 1, 1998, employees shall receive .40$ per hour, effective January 1, 1999, .45$ per hour and effective January 1,2000, .50$ per hour.
Weekend: Employees with the title Nurse Aide who are required to work on Saturday or Sunday, (the first shift beginning at 7:00 a.m. on Saturday and the last shift ending at 7:00 a.m. on Monday) shall receive an additional $.60 per hour.
All other employees who are required to work on Saturday or Sunday (the first shift beginning at 7:00 a.m. on Saturday and the last shift ending at 7:00 a.m. on Monday) shall receive an additional $.30 per hour. Effective January 1, 1998, such employees shall receive .40$ per hour, effective January 1, 1999, .45$ per hour and effective January 1, 2000, .50$ per hour.
10.5.3	In order to fairly distribute weekend and holiday work, any employee who fails to report to work on a scheduled weekend day or holiday, he/she will be rescheduled to work the next weekend day or holiday that he/she is scheduled to be off, with the exception of absence due to approved leave other than sick leave.
10.6	SALARY SCHEDULE	.
10.6.1	ADVANCEMENT TO GRADE RATE
An employee hired subsequent to contract ratification by the parties shall be paid 10% less than the grade rate for his/her classification. Upon completion of 12 months of employment, said employee shall receive 5% less than the grade rate. Upon completion of 36 months of employment,
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 11
the employee shall be paid the applicable grade rate for his/her classification.
10.6.2	PROMOTION
When an employee currently earning the grade rate of his/her position is appointed to a higher title in the direct line of promotion, then such employee shall receive either the grade rate of the higher position or a rate of pay increased by an amount equal to the difference in grade rates of both positions whichever is higher. In all other promotion situations, the employee shall be appointed at a rate of $300 less than the grade rate of the higher position and shall not be advanced to the grade rate until completion of twenty six (26) weeks of service in the position. Promotions shall not constitute an interrupting of service for the purposes of determining longevity increment entitlement.
10.6.3	RECLASSIFICATION
When an occupied position is reclassified to a higher title, the incumbent of such position who is currently earning the grade rate shall immediately receive either the grade rate of the higher title or a rate of pay increased by an amount equal to the difference in grade rates of both positions, whichever is higher. In all other upward reclassifications, the employee shall be appointed at the starting rate of the higher title and shall not be advanced to the grade rate until completion of twelve (12) weeks of service in the position.
When an occupied position is reclassified to a lower title, the salary of the incumbent of the position shall not be reduced as long as he/she continues to serve in such position. When the position becomes vacant, it shall be reallocated to the appropriate salary grade prior to refilling.
10.6.4	REALLOCATION
When an occupied position is reallocated to a higher salary grade, the incumbent of such position who is currently earning the grade rate shall immediately receive either the grade rate of the new salary grade or a rate of pay increased by an amount equal to the difference in grade rates, whichever is higher. In all other cases, the incumbent shall be advanced to the starting rate of the new salary grade and shall receive the grade rate upon completion of the required weeks of satisfactory service in the position. When an occupied position is reallocated to a lower salary grade, the salary of the incumbent of the position shall not be reduced as long as he/she continues to serve in such position. When the position becomes vacant it shall be refilled at the salary grade to which it was reallocated.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 12
submit relevant documentation in accordance with the grievance procedure contained herein. It is agreed that the decision rendered at Stage 3 of the grievance procedure is final and not subject to an appeal to arbitration, and that any change requiring legislative approval shall not be implemented until such approval is granted. It is recognized that the legislature will not be bound by any decision rendered through the grievance procedure.
10.7	OVERTIME
10.7.1	35 HOUR PER WEEK EMPLOYEES
Employees eligible for overtime who are authorized to work in excess of 35 hours per week shall be compensated at their regular rate of pay through 40 hours, and shall be paid at a rate of time and one-half (1.5) for all work in excess of 40 hours.	'
10.7.2	40 HOUR PER WEEK EMPLOYEES
Employees eligible for overtime who are authorized to work in excess of 40 hours per week shall be compensated at a rate of time and one-half (1 Va) for the additional hours worked.
10.7.3	24 HOUR PER DAY FACILITIES
Employees eligible for overtime who are authorized to work in excess of 40 hours weekly shall be compensated at a rate of time and one-half (1.5) for the additional hours worked.
10.7.4	It is understood that paid leave shall be included as time worked, and that no shift will be curtailed in order to avoid paying overtime.
10.7.5	HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT:
During the winter season, (November 1 through April 30), Highway department employees who are called in for emergency work shall be paid the appropriate overtime rate from the time that they are called. Employees must report within a reasonable time after being called to be eligible for the call in pay.
10.8	COMPENSATORY TIME
10.8.1	ENTITLEMENT
County employees who are not eligible for overtime but who are deemed eligible for compensatory time shall receive same, at the rate of straight time for hours worked in excess of their normal work day. The County and the Union agree to comply with all current and future provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
10.8.2	ACCUMULATION/USAGE
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT Page 13
Compensatory time accumulated up to two (2) work weeks by an employee shall be taken at his/her convenience with prior approval of the department head, consistent with the efficient operation of the agency. The employee shall be provided with an explanation by the department head of any denial of the usage of compensatory time. Any compensatory time accumulations in excess of two (2) work weeks will be credited to the employee and shall be taken at the department head's convenience. Any compensatory time earned by an employee prior to the implementation of the 1976 Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be excluded from the calculations contained herein.
10.9	ON-CALL STIPEND
A stipend of $700 per year shall be granted to department mandated on-call employees for Probation, Social Services, Health, Mental Health departments and District Attorney investigators. Effective January 1, 1998, the above stipend shall be increased to $725.00 and effective January 1, 2000, such stipend shall be increased to $750.00.
10.10	NYSPAN STIPEND:
The Probation Department's certified NYSPAN trainer and the two (2) most senior department employees performing NYSPAN duties shall receive an annual stipend commencing January 1, 1998 of $150.00. Effective January 1,2000, the stipend shall be increased to $250.00 per annum.
SECTION 11
HOURS OF WORK
11.1	REGULAR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES
All employees shall work seven (7) hours per day, thirty-five (35) hours per week, pursuant to their respective departmental work schedule.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 14
11.2	HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
11.2.1	From the first full work week in May up to, but not including, the first full week in November, employees shall work ten (10) hours per day, including a one-half (%) hour meal period four (4) days per week - Monday through Thursday;
11.2.2	From the first full work week in November up to, but not including, the first full work week in May, employees shall work eight (8) hours per day, including a one-half (%) hour meal period, five (5) days per week - Monday through Friday.
11.3	TWENTY-FOUR HOUR PER DAY FACILITIES
All employees serving in a twenty-four (24) hour per day facility shall work pursuant to their respective departmental work schedules.
11.4	HOURLY EMPLOYEES
All employees being paid on an hourly basis shall work pursuant to their respective departmental work schedules.
11.5	MODIFICATION OF HOURS
The Employer may exercise its right to modify departmental and/or unit work schedules in order to provide for different hours of operation and greater scheduling flexibility. Prior to any such modification, the County and UPSEU will meet and confer regarding reasons for such modifications. Any such modifications in work schedules will be promulgated to the Union and all affected employees at least ten (10) working days prior to implementation.
In case of emergency, the employer retains the right to take whatever action is necessary to maintain its mission, purpose, objectives and services to the citizens of the County.
For the sake of harmonious labor relations, any disputes that may result due to modification of work schedules, may be brought within ten (10) working days to the Personnel Director (with Union representation, if requested), who will render a final decision. It is understood that such a decision shall not be subject to the grievance procedure contained herein.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 15
SECTION 12
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
12.1	TO A LOWER SALARY GRADE
If a permanent employee is temporarily assigned to a position allocated to a lower salary grade than that of the employee's regular position, then no reduction in pay shall be effected.
12.2	TO A HIGHER SALARY
12.2.1	If an employee is temporarily assigned to a position allocated to a higher salary grade than that of the employee's regular position, then the employee shall receive either the rate of pay equal to the starting salary of the higher position or a salary which includes the difference in start rates of both positions, whichever is higher. In no case, will the salary of the temporarily assigned employee exceed that of the incumbent.
12.2.2	An employee shall not receive the higher rate of pay unless and until he has regularly performed the full duties of the position for a period of five (5) consecutive working days or for a period in excess of twenty (25) working days per year.
12.2.3	The Department Head or his/her designee shall provide written authorization of such reassignment to the employee who is to temporarily perform the full duties of the higher position, and such authorization shall specify the anticipated duration of the temporary reassignment.
12.2.4	With the exception of employees in the Highway Department, no employee who is temporarily reassigned for the purpose of training or familiarization of equipment shall be covered by Subsection 12.2.1 of this Section. In the case of the Highway . Department, any employee who is temporarily reassigned in order to be trained/familiarized with equipment shall receive an additional five percent (5%) of his regular rate of pay for the time served in the temporary reassignment.
12.2.5	When an employee is temporarily reassigned to assume the duties of another employee who is utilizing employee organization leave as defined in Section 6, he shall not be entitled to compensation granted under Subsection 12.2.1 of this Section.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 16
SECTION 13
JOB-SECURITY
13.1	TENURE
13.1.1	COMPETITIVE CLASS
The granting of permanent status to Competitive Class employees shall be carried out solely in accordance with Civil Service Law, Rules and Procedures.
13.1.2	NON-COMPETITIVE AND LABOR CLASS
All permanent Non-Competitive and Labor Class employees who are members of the bargaining unit shall be entitled to all rights granted under Sections 75 and 76 of the Civil Service Law upon completion of twelve (12) months of satisfactory service in their positions. The Department Head shall determine if an employee's service has been satisfactory during the twelve (12) month probationary period. The employee shall be notified at least two (2) weeks prior to the completion of his/her first six (6) months of service that the probationary period is being extended. An employee who is not provided with such notification shall be considered permanent at the completion of the first six (6) months of service. Labor and non-competitive employees first hired subsequent to contract ratification shall receive Section 75 rights after 18 months of employment.
13.1.3	PROBATIONARY PERIOD
•	The probationary period and any action taken by the Employer therein shall not
be subject to the grievance procedure.
13.2	REDUCTION IN FORCE
13.2.1	COMPETITIVE CLASS
Any reduction in work force resulting from the abolishment of positions shall be carried out in accordance with Sections 80 and 81 of the Civil Service Law, Rule XXVI of the Civil Service Rules, and procedures set forth by the New York State Department of Civil Service.
13.2.2	NON-COMPETITIVE LABOR CLASS
1)	DEFINITIONS
a. Lay-Off Unit: Shall mean	a department within Rensselaer
County government.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT	Paqe~
b.	Continuous Service:
1)	Reinstatement more than one (1) year following resignation is a break in continuous service. An employee's service shall be calculated from the date of re-employment.
2} Resignation followed by re-employment within one (1) year does not constitute a break in continuous service.
3} A leave of absence executed in accordance with laws and rules is not interruption of continuous service.
4)	Any period during which an employee is subject to recall pursuant to his Article does not constitute an interruption of continuous service.
c.	Permanent Service: Shall start on that date of the incumbent's original appointment on a permanent basis in the classified service within Rensselaer County government. Temporary employment immediately preceded and followed by permanent classified service does not constitute an interruption of continuous service.
d.	Probationary Employees: Occupying positions to be abolished in the same title shall be suspended before any permanent employee in the layoff unit in that title who has completed his/her probationary period. Probationary employees, however, do have superior retention rights to those employees serving on a temporary basis.
e.	Temporary Employees: Occupying positions to be abolished in the same title shall be suspended before any permanent or probationary employees in the lay-off unit. An employee who is serving on a temporary basis in a position designated for abolishment shall have the right to return to the position in which he/she last served on a permanent basis. It is understood that a temporary employee may be given the opportunity to return only to the position in which he/she served immediately preceding the temporary appointment.
f.	Veterans: For the purposes of this Section the definition of a Veteran and a Disabled Veteran is contained in Section 85 of the Civil Service Law.
Disabled Veterans: The date of original appointment shall be deemed to be sixty (60) months earlier than the actual date.
Non-Disabled Veteran: The date of the original appointment shall be deemed to be thirty (30) months earlier than actual date.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 18
g.	Direct Line of Promotion: Shall be strictly construed as those titles having the same generic root.
h.	Next Longer Occupied Title: Shall mean the title in direct line of promotion immediately below the title from which the incumbent is suspended.
13.3	SUSPENSION
13.3.1	When an occupied position in the Non-Competitive or Labor Class is abolished, suspension is made from among those employees holding the same title in the same layoff unit.
13.3.2	Amount permanent employees, the order of suspension is the inverse of the order of their original permanent appointments in the classified service. In the event that two or more permanent incumbents share the same date of original permanent appointment in the classified service, a lottery shall be conducted by the Director of Personnel and Personnel in order to randomly select the incumbent to be suspended. Such proceedings shall be conducted in the presence of the Chief Shop Steward of the Union, the Work Site Representative and the Head of the Department in which the incumbents are employed.
13,3.3	When two or more permanent incumbents of positions with the same title are suspended at the same time, the order in which they shall be entitled to displace shall be determined by their seniority, with those employees having greater seniority entitled to displace first. In the event that two or more permanent incumbents share the same date of original permanent appointment, the tie shall be broken by conducting a lottery as set forth in Paragraph (b) above. The order in which the incumbents shall be entitled to displace shall be determined by the order of selection, with the incumbent who is initially selected having the first opportunity for displacement.
13.4	BUMPING
13.4.1	An employee laid off from a position to which there is a direct line of promotion has the option to displace the least senior incumbent of the next lower level position within the same lay-off unit. An employee may displace only to an occupied position in the next lower title in direct line of promotion. If such a bump title does not exist or is vacant, then the Eaid-off employee may displace the least senior incumbent of the next lower level position in direct line of promotion. Employees being laid-off may only exercise displacement rights if the positions to which they are bumping are occupied by incumbents having less seniority.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 19
13.5	RECALL
13.5.1	A Non-Competitive or Labor class employee who is laid-off under this Section shall be eligible for recall in the title from which he/she was laid-off or bumped.
13.5.2	Recall rights shall be for two (2) years from the date of lay-off. Individuals shall be recalled on the basis of seniority as defined in this Section.
13.5.3	The Employer shall notify an employee being recalled by Certified MailReturn Receipt Requested at his/her last known address of the vacancy to be filled. Unless the Employer receives from such employee being recalled and acceptance in writing, within ten (10) business days of the date of mailing of the recall notice, such employee shall no longer be eligible for recall. It is the sole responsibility of the employee to notify the Employer of any change of address occurring during the recall period.
13.6	FILLING OF VACANCIES AND PROMOTIONS
For the purpose of non-competitive employees, the filling of vacancies and promotions will be based upon: qualifications, past employment record and seniority. The County's vacancy committee shall forward a list of vacant positions to be filled to the union's office.
13.7	POSTING OF VACANCIES
All vacancies will be posted at the work-site and shall remain posted until such time as the vacancy is filled.
13.8	SUB-CONTRACTING
In the event that the employer finds it necessary, for whatever reason, to subcontract any functions within County government, the employer agrees that it will use its best efforts to find employment within County government for all qualified employees of record as of January 1, 1988 displace by said subcontracting.
13.9	JOB SECURITY:
An employee on unpaid leave status for 120 days dr less subsequent to July 30th, 1997 shall not have his/her seniority date adjusted. An employee on leave in an unpaid status for over 120 days shall have his/her seniority adjusted in accordance with current practice.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 20
SECTION 14
HOLIDAYS
14.1	RECOGNIZED HOLIDAYS
Holidays honored as days off with New Year's Day
Martin Luther King's Birthday Washington's Birthday Memorial Day Independence Day
Labor Day
pay in Rensselaer County are: Columbus Day Election Day Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Day
14.2	WEEKEND HOLIDAYS
When one of the foregoing holidays falls on Sunday, then Monday shall be observed as said holiday. Friday shall be observed as the holiday when one of the above holidays falls on Saturday.
All employees in 24 hour facilities working schedules other than Monday through Friday will be paid for the holiday as follows:
July 4th, Christmas, and the New Year's holiday shall be celebrated on the actual holiday.
When a holiday falls on an employee's scheduled day off, the employee shall, at the discretion of the employee, be paid one day's pay for the holiday or receive equivalent compensatory time.
When a holiday falls on an employee's scheduled work day, the employee shall, at the discretion of the employee, be paid for the holiday or receive equivalent compensatory time as defined in Section 14.4 of this section.
14.3	WEEKDAY HOLIDAYS
When one of the above holidays falls on a weekday (Monday through Friday) and such day is the regularly scheduled day off of a full-time employee, then the employee shall be compensated for the holiday.
14.4	EMPLOYEES WORKING ON HOLIDAYS
A full-time employee who works on a holiday shall at the discretion of the employee, receive two and one-half (2.5) times his/her regular salary or equivalent compensatory time for the day worked. If the employees hours exceed the normal scheduled hours, then they shall receive two times their regular rate of pay.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 21
14.5	HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES
Highway Department employees shall be paid two times their regular pay plus straight time holiday pay for hours worked on Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's Day.
14.6	ALTERNATE HOLIDAYS
The Highway Department shall discontinue the practice of designating alternative days for holidays.
14.7	QUALIFYING FOR HOLIDAY PAY
In order to qualify for holiday pay or for premium pay granted in Section 14.4 employees must have worked their regularly scheduled shift immediately preceding and immediately following the holiday. Employees who on either of these days utilize regularly scheduled and authorized vacation, personal, sick, compensatory or bereavement leave shall be entitled to holiday pay or premium pay. The Department Head, however, may require that the use of sick leave immediately preceding and/or following the holiday be substantiated by medical certification to be obtained by the employee at the Employer's expense. Should a Department Head determine that an employee's record reflects a pattern of sick leave abuse then such employee may be required to substantiate the use of sick leave immediately preceding and/or following the holiday by medical certification to be obtained by the employee at his/her own expense. A patter of abuse shall be defined as a systematic usage of sick leave by an employee. Should an employee who has exhausted all of his/her credits for vacation, personal and sick leave fail to work on the days immediately preceding and following the holiday, then such employee shall not be entitled to holiday pay or to premium pay.
SECTION. 15
LEAVE WITH PAY
15.1	VACATION LEAVE ENTITLEMENT
All full-time employees shall accrue vacation leave credits in accordance with the following schedule:
Please see pages 21 and 22 for leave schedule accruements.
As of January 1, 1987, vacation hours will be accrued. The yearly vacation entitlement begins to accrue on the employee's anniversary date.
15.2	ADVANCED VACATION PAY
An employee has the privilege of receiving his/her vacation pay on the last regular pay day prior to the effective date of his/her vacation. This privilege is conditioned upon the employee's giving notice to his/her payroll clerk thirty (30) - days prior to said last regular pay dav.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 22
15.1.1 FORTY (40) HOUR PER WEEK EMPLOYEES
COMPLETED YEARS OF	AT COMPLETION OF	EXTRA HOURS ON YEARLY	TOTAL VACATION	
CONTINUOUS SERVICE	EACH PAY PERIOD	ANNIVERSARY DATE	ENTITLEMENT	
			HOURS	DAYS
0 - 1 Years * *	3.0	2.0	80	10
1 Year	3.0	2.0	80	10
2 Years	3.0	2.0	80	10
3 Years	3.0	2.0	80	10
4 Years	3.0	2.0	80	10
5 Years	4.5	3.0	120	15
6 Years	4.5	11.0	128	16
7 Years	5.0	6.0	136	17
8 Years	5.5	1.0	144	18
9 Years	5.5	9.0	152	19
10 Years	6.0	4.0	160	20
11 Years	6.0	12.0	168	21
12 Years	6.5	7.0	176	22
13 Years	7.0	2.0	184	23
14 Years	7.0	10.0	192	24
15 Years and Over	7.5	5.0	200	25
New employees will begin to accrue vacation credits as of the first workday of their first full pay period. They may not utilize accrued vacation until they have completed six months of continuous services.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 23
5.1.2 THIRTY-FIVE (35) HOUR PER WEEK EMPLOYEES
COMPLETED YEARS OF	AT COMPLETION OF	EXTRA HOURS ON YEARLY	TOTAL VACATION	
CONTINUOUS SERVICE	EACH PAY PERIOD	ANNIVERSARY DATE	ENTITLEMENT	
			HOURS	DAYS
0 - 1 Years * *	2.5	5.0	70	10
1 Year	2.5	5.0	70	10
2 Years	2.5	5.0	70	10
3 Years	2.5	5.0	70	10
4 Years	2.5	5.0	70	10
5 Years	4.0	1.0	105	15
6 Years	4.0	8.0	112	16
7 Years	4.5	2.0	119	17
8 Years	4.5	9.0	126	18
9 Years	5.0	3.0	133	19
10 Years	5.0	10.0	140	20
11 Years	5.5	4.0	147	21
12 Years	5.5	11.0	154	22
13 Years	6.0	5.0	161	23
14 Years	6.0	12.0	168	24
15 Years and Over	6.5	6.0	175	25
New employees will begin to accrue vacation credits as of the first workday of their first full pay period. They may not utilize accrued vacation until they have completed six months of continuous services.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 24
15.3	ACCUMULATED VACATION LEAVE
Employees may accumulate vacation entitlement to a maximum of thirty (30) days:
240 hours - for employees working in a 40 hour per week department.
210 hours - for employees working in a 35 hour per week department.
15.4 SEPARATION FROM SERVICE
Employees who permanently separate from County service will be granted the vacation credits due them as of their last pay period. Credit paid will be no greater than the maximum allowed accumulation as defined in Section 15.3.
SECTION 16
SENIORITY
16.1	Seniority shall mean the time of service attained by the length of continuous employment with the County.
16.2	Length of service shall not be inconsistent with Section 13.
16.3	For the purpose of scheduling vacation and personal leave, Department Heads shall utilize seniority in conjunction with departmental needs and individual employee skills.
SECTION 17
SICK LEAVE
17.1	ENTITLEMENT
For the benefit of employees when ill or disabled, sick leave shall be earned at a rate of one-half (%) day for each two (2) week period worked.
17.1.1	4 hours bi-weekly - for employees working in a 40 hour per week
department.
17.1.2	3.5 hours bi-weekly - for employees working in a 35 hour per week
department.
17.2	MEDICAL CERTIFICATION
The Department Head or his/her designee may require medical certification when the use of sick leave credits exceeds three (3) consecutive days or when he/she determines that a pattern or abuse of such credits has occurred. A pattern of abuse shall be defined as a systematic usage of sick leave by an employee. The medical certification shall be obtained from a physician at the employee.'s own expense. The Department Head may also require the employee to be examined at the expense of the Employer by a physician designated by the Department Head.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 25
17.3	NOTICE TO DEPARTMENT HEAD
In order to be entitled to sick leave, an employee must notify the Department Head or designee of the illness or disability within such time limits as are established and applicable to the employee's department.
17.4	ACCUMULATED SICK LEAVE
Employees may accumulate sick leave to a maximum of 200 days:
1600 hours - for employees working in a 40 hour per week department.
1400 hours - for employees working in a 35 hour per week department.
SECTION 18
PERSONAL LEAVE
18.1	DEFINITION
Personal leave shall be defined as that leave available to an employee for the transaction of personal business that cannot be accomplished at times other than during regular work hours.
18.2	ENTITLEMENT
18.2.1	EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO 1/1/78
Upon completion of each year of full-time continuous service employees shall be granted 40 hours personal leave on an eight (8) hour day schedule or 35 hours for a seven (7) hour day schedule. Such leave shall be credited to employees on their anniversary date and no leave shall be advanced prior to such date.
18.2.2	EMPLOYEES HIRED 1/1/78 OR THEREAFTER
Upon completion of each year of full-time continuous service employees shall be granted 32 hours personal leave for employees on an eight (8) hour day schedule or twenty-eight (28) hours personal leave for employees on a seven (7) hour day schedule. Such leave shall be credited to employees on their anniversary date and no leave shall be advanced prior to such date.
Effective January 1, 1998, employees hired subsequent to January 1, 1978 shall receive one (1) additional personal day per year for a total of 40 hours for eight (8) hour shift employees and 35 hours for seven (7) hour shift employees.
18.3	APPLICATION FOR USE OF LEAVE
Application for use of such leave, except in emergency cases, shall be made to the Department Head or his/her designee not less than three (3) work days in advance of each anticipated absence for personal business. The granting of such leave shall be subject to the reasonable operating needs of the department,
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 26
and any denial of the use of personal leave shall be given to the employee at the time of his/her request. It is understood that personal leave may be taken in hours.
18.4	UNUSED PERSONAL LEAVE
Upon completion of each year of service and on the anniversary date, any unused personal leave shall be credited to the employee's accumulated sick leave.
18.5	SEPARATION FROM SERVICE
An employee who permanently leaves County service prior to reaching his/her anniversary date shall not be entitled to any full or pro-rated personal leave credits.
SECTION 19
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Each employee is entitled to a maximum of four (4) work days leave for a death in the immediate family. Immediate family shall be defined as Husband, Wife, Mother, Father, Brother, Sister, Son, Daughter. Three (3) work days shall be available with respect to grandparents, in-laws, or any member of the employee's immediate household. The County may request that the employee provide an obituary notice for verification of death.
SECTION 20
VERIFICATION OF LEAVE CREDITS
An employee may verify quarterly, with his/her payroll clerk, leave credit accumulations, The system of verification shall be determined by the Employer but will not prevent an employee from ascertaining his/her leave credit accumulations at least on a quarterly basis.
SECTION 21
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
21.1	LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAY
21.1.1	DEFINITION
A leave of absence with pay shall be granted to eligible employees in the event of extended disability. An extended disability shall be defined as a condition which totally precludes an employee, for a minimum period of four (4} weeks, from performing the regular duties of his/her position. An employee deemed eligible for a leave of absence with pay shall receive one-half (’/a) pay equal to four (4) weeks for each year of continuous full-time employment in a permanent appointment, to a maximum of forty (40) weeks. An employee who has exhausted this maximum benefit will be allowed to rebuild credit by further years of continuous service. Four (4)
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 27
weeks of half-pay will be available for each further year of continuous service, again to a maximum of 40 weeks.
21.2	QUALIFYING EMPLOYEES
A permanent employee who has completed a minimum of two (2) years of continuous full-time employment in a permanent appointment, immediately preceding the request for leave with pay, shall be eligible for such leave.
An employee who has exhausted forty (40) weeks must complete one (1) continuous year of service before again becoming eligible.
21.3	CRITERIA FOR LEAVE WITH PAY
21.3.1	An employee requesting leave with pay must have exhausted all accumulations for personal, vacation, sick and compensatory leave.
21.3.2	Leave with pay will be granted only to those employees whose total disability precludes them from performing the duties of their position. Verification of the total disability and its duration shall be obtained from a physician by the employee at his/her own expense. The Employer may verify the total disability by having the employee examined by a physician designated by the Employer. The expense for such medical certification attesting to the total disability and its duration shall be borne by the Employer.
21.3.3	The Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission recognizes three (3) states in pregnancy for determining when a pregnant employee is disabled. They are dormant, childbearing and child rearing stages. Job disability is associated only with the childbearing state and requires a certification of a duly licensed physician, stating that the employee is unable to continue to perform any of the normal and usual duties and responsibilities of her position. The determination that a job disability no longer exists also requires a certification of a duly licensed physician.
21.4	SUSPENSION OF FRINGE BENEFITS
During such leave of absence with pay, the employee shall not be entitled to fringe benefits or to longevity credit relative to salary.
SECTION 22
LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
22.1	DEFINITION
A leave of absence without pay shall be defined as an extended leave which
may be granted by the Employer for a period not to exceed one (1) year.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 28
22.2	QUALIFYING EMPLOYEES
An employee who is currently serving on a permanent basis is eligible for a one (11 year leave of absence without pay.
22.3	CRITERIA FOR A LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
The Employer may grant a leave of absence without pay, not to exceed one (1) year, to an employee for one of the following reasons:
22.3.1	EMPLOYEE ILLNESS OR DISABILITY
Verification of the illness or disability and its duration shall be obtained from a physician by the employee at his/her own expense. The Employer may verify the illness or disability by having the employee examined by a physician designated by the Employer. The expense for such medical certification attesting to the total disability and its duration shall be borne by the Employer.
22.3.2	CHILDBEARING LEAVE
Upon termination of pregnancy and the period of disability related thereto, the Employer may grant a leave of absence without pay for a reasonable period of time. In the case of an employee who ceases to be disabled from the performance of her duties within three (3) to four (4) weeks following childbirth, a "reasonable period of time" shall be defined as six months. For an employee who continues to be disabled for four (4} months following childbirth, a leave of absence for three (3) months shall be reasonable. Except in the case of continuing disability, and leave of absence beyond the seven (7) month period following childbirth shall be granted solely at the discretion of the Department Head.
It is understood that, pursuant to this Section, male employees will be given equal consideration for childrearing purposes.
22.3.3	ADOPTIVE LEAVE
In cases of legal adoption under Article 7 of the Domestic Relations Law, a leave of absence without pay for childrearing purposes may be granted where the adoptive child is required to reside with the adoptive parents for at least six (6) months prior to an order of adoption being made. In such cases, leave for childrearing purposes may be granted for six (6) months commencing from the date of the adoptive child begins actual full-time residence with the adoptive parents. Additional leave for childrearing purposes may be granted solely at the discretion of the Department Head.
22.4	SUSPENSION OF FRINGE BENEFITS
During such leave of absence without pay, the employee shall not be entitled to fringe benefits or to longevity credit relative to salary.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 29
SECTION 23
UNAUTHORIZED LEAVE WITHOUT PAY
23.1	An employee absent from work without authorization for three (3) consecutive work days shall be deemed to have resigned from his/her position if the employee has not personally contacted his/her Department Head or designee on or before the 4th work day following the commencement of such period of absence without authorization.
23.2	The employee may submit an explanation for his/her absence from work without authorization to the Department Head. The burden of proof shall be upon the employee to establish that it was not possible for him/her to report to work or to notify the department head or designee. The Department Head shall make a determination in the matter and such determination will be reviewed by the Personnel Director, who will render a decision in the case. It is understood that such decision will be final and shall not be subject to the grievance procedure contained herein.
SECTION 24
HEALTH AND DENTAL INSURANCE
24.1 INSURANCE COVERAGE
Commencing January 1, 1997, the Employer shall offer to eligible members of the bargaining unit, a Hospitalization, Indemnity/PRO, prescription drug health plan. The levels of coverage shall be as specified in the plan design agreement attached hereto and made a specific part hereof as Exhibits 1 and 2 . The plan shall be the sole health care plan offered by the County during the term of this Agreement. The County intends to contract with Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield to provide the benefits specified in Exhibits 1 and 2. Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield has represented to the County that services provided at CHP Health Centers will be participating providers in their Blue Choice P.P.O. Network. If at any time during the course of the contract with Empire, or any subsequently approved provider, CHP Health Centers are not participating providers, then all claims for benefits made for services provided by covered subscribers who use CHP Health Centers will be treated as in-network claims and paid accordingly. The parties further agree that all CHP Network Physicians from whom Rensselaer County employees have received services prior to December 31, 1996 shall be considered as in-network providers for all employees and all claims for services from such physicians, shall be paid as in-network claims under the plan. The parties agree that the County may continue to contract with Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield or any other administrator in its sole discretion during the term of this Agreement provided the benefits and levels thereof specified in Exhibits 1 and 2 are equal to or better than.
24.A. 1 .a Employees hired after January 1, 1997 shall be eligible for health coverage under the plan, 120 calendar days from their date of hire .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 30
24.1 .b	For the first two (2) years of this agreement, the parties agree that members
of the bargaining unit who are employed on a full time basis shall be required to pay $14.27 for single coverage and $37.82 for family coverage in each pay period (employees paid weekly will have the deduction made pro-rata). Less than full time employees shall pay for coverage in the first 24 months of this agreement pursuant to Exhibit 3 attached hereto and made part hereof.
It is expressly agreed between the Employer and the Union that this paragraph, paragraph 24.A.2, shall expire on December 31, 1998 and shall be of no further force or effect after that date and shall be replaced by the provisions set forth in 24.A.3 below.
24.1 .c	Commencing January 1, 1999, the Union and the Employer agree that the
Employer shall contribute the dollar equivalent of 80% of the premium cost of individual and family health insurance coverage for all employees who elect coverage under the County sponsored plan attached hereto. The County shall provide the Union with the premium costs for individual and family coverage no later than 60 days or as soon as practical thereafter as they're received by the County prior to January 1 for the subsequent January 1 through December 31 period. (Commencing January 1, 1999)
Less than full time employees shall pay for coverage in accordance with the formula specified at the bottom of Exhibit 3.
24.1 .d	The premium cost shall be defined as the cost established by Blue Cross and
Blue Shield for the ensuing 12 month period plus the actual cost of the vision plan plus administrative costs based on the 1996 plan administrative cost for the 424 unit ($84,500) plus the annual consumer price index for calendar years 1997, 1998 and 1999 if applicable.
For the purposes of the administrative cost assessment and determination the parties have included in the 1996 administrative cost base the following:
a)	Consultant fees
b)	Employees assisting in the administration of the plan (salary plus fringe) c) Supplies and office expenditures
(It is hereby specifically understood that the increased cost for these and any other administrative cost shall be limited to the aggregate CPI increases as set forth above).
The Union shall have the right to audit the premium costs provided to it by the County. Should a dispute arise as to the amount of individual and family premium costs beginning in the calendar year 1999 such dispute shall be submitted to binding arbitration under the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The arbitrator shall be limited in his award to adjusting premium rates prospectively with no retroactive implication to the County. The parties agree to use an expedited arbitration process in this regard. (Public Employment Relations Board rules and procedures).
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 31
24.2 VISION COVERAGE
24.2	.a	Commencing January, 1997, the Employer shall offer an Individual/Family
Vision Care Plan through Davis Optical to eligible members of the bargaining unit as defined and set forth in 24.E.1 herein. The provisions of the agreed to plan are attached hereto in Exhibit 1 and 2 with the specific plan level of benefit set forth in Exhibit 4 attached hereto. Employees not enrolled in the County's basic health care plan may enroll in the Vision Care Plan. Any employee not enrolled in the County's basic health plan who enrolls in the Vision Care Plan shall have a 12 month waiting period before eligibility for benefits begins. For employees employed by the County as of January 1, 1997, who are not enrolled in the County's health plan, the waiting period will begin on January 1, 1997, with coverage effective January 1, 1998.
For new employees hired after January 1, 1997, who elect to waive coverage under the County's basic health plan, the 12 month waiting period will begin on the date of hire.
Enrollment in the Vision Care Plan is not automatic. Employees must request and complete an Enrollment Form in order for coverage to commence. Coverage will not be made retroactive due to failure to complete an Enrollment Form.
For employees with stand alone vision coverage, the benefits are payable once every 36 months. For employees with basic health coverage, vision care benefits are payable once every 24 months.
24.3	ELIGIBILITY (Health and Vision)
Any employee who works at least half the normal based scheduled hours (17.5 hours for 35 hour employees or 20 hours for 40 hour employees). Eligible dependents shall include spouse, dependent children under 19 or dependent children up to 25 if enrolled as a full time student.
24.4
REOPENER
The parties shall reopen discussions dn or about July 1, 1998 with regard to the health and vision coverage including plan cost, possible plan modifications are the healthcare format and other matters of mutual interest. Any changes to the plan must be by mutual agreement between the parties.
24.5
DENTAL INSURANCE
Effective January 1, 1998, the County agrees to upgrade the current dental plan to provide the level of benefits specified tn the attached schedule. The County agrees to pay the prior insurance cost of the plan. The parties agree that the fee schedule and level of benefits adopted herein and attached hereto in Appendix A are from the GHI Preferred Dental Plan in existence as of July 30, 1997.
Effective January 1, 1998, employees eligible for individual coverage shall also be eligible for dependent coverage. For the term of this agreement
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 32
the County will offer employee paid dependent coverage at full cost which will be set at $36.47 per month. Any employee who elects dependent coverage must enroll for a minimum period of 24 months while they are employed. Any employee who drops coverage shall be ineligible to reenroll for coverage for a 12 month period commencing from the date the employee dropped family coverage.
Eligibility for the dental plan shall be as follows: Employees who work 50% or more of either a 35 or 40 hour per week position, whichever is applicable, and who have been employed for a minimum of six (6) months. Coverage to be effective the first of the month following the month in which the employee's six month anniversary occurs.
• Any employee who has participated in the County's Dental Plan for either individual or dependent coverage and who leaves County employment shall be entitled to participate in the County's dental plan upon the employee's return if the employee returns to the County work force within one year of leaving.
e Any employee who is eligible to participate for dependent coverage who does not elect such coverage shall not again be eligible to elect such coverage for 12 months from when they first became eligible for dependent coverage.
e Employees who waive coverage and subsequently submit proof of loss of other dependent coverage may enroll in the County's dental plan at any time.
The parties agree to meet within 30 days of notice to either party that GHI has increased its "preferred" fee schedule to review and discuss such increases and what if any modifications will be made.
24.6 EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTION TOWARD HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE
The Employer shall contribute the dollar equivalent of 80% of the premium cost of individual and dependent health insurance coverage (see attached agreement for premium cost 1997 and.1998) for all eligible employees who elect coverage with the County sponsored plan. Plan levels and benefits set forth in the health agreement.
24.7 RETIREES
Upon retirement (as defined for the purposes of Section 25 Entitlement) from employment, the then dollar equivalent of a retiree's accumulated sick leave shall be credited to such retiree, and such retiree shall be reimbursed therefrom for the premium cost of the health insurance program that is available to the retiree group, should said retiree be eligible and elect to enroll in such coverage after retirement. On behalf of such retiree the employer shall make premium payment directly to the insurance carrier; however, the responsibility for full and timely payment shall be and remain that of the retiree, and the employer shall in no way incur liability beyond the premium cost coverage. Neither a retiree nor his estate shall have a vested interest in the fund aforesaid or any portion
, COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 33
thereof, nor may the same be, in any way, assigned or encumbered or utilized for any purpose other than aforesaid.
SECTION 25
RETIREMENT
25.1	For employees who became members of the New York State Employees' Retirement System prior to July 1, 1976, the Employer shall participate in the New York State Retirement Twenty-Five Year Career Plan under Section 75-g.
25.2	The Employer shall participate in the New York State Retirement Twenty-Five Year Career Plan under Section 75-g.
25.3	Employees who became members July 1, 1976 and thereafter, shall be eligible for retirement benefits as prescribed by Article 14 of the New York State Retirement and Social Security Law.
SECTION 26
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
26.1	DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES
Every bargaining unit member shall have the right to present his/her grievance in accordance with the procedure provided herein, free from interference, coercion, restraint, discrimination or reprisal, and shall have the right to be represented at all stages of the grievance procedure.
26.2	SUBJECT MATTER
A grievance shall mean any violation, misinterpretation or inequitable application of this Agreement, existing laws, rules, procedures, regulations, administrative orders or work rules of the County of Rensselaer or a department thereof or any other condition of employment which relates to or involves the employee or employees. A disciplinary grievance shall mean protest of a proposed penalty on the basis of (1) innocence, (2) extenuating circumstance, or (3) inequitable application of rule or policy.
26.3	DEFINITIONS
Aggrieved: Shall mean any member of the bargaining unit.
Immediate Supervisor: Shall mean the next higher level of authority above the aggrieved in the department wherein the grievance exists.
Department: Shall mean any office, department, board, commission, or other agency of the government of the Employer.
. Department Head: Shall mean that person so designated pursuant to local law, administrative code, rule or resolution of the Legislative Body as the Head of a Department.
.COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 34
Time Limits: Shall mean the number of days for processing grievances.
Day: Shall mean the work days of the aggrieved.
Decisions: Shall mean the ruling, determination, report or disposition made at any step of the procedure.
26.4	GENERAL PROVISIONS
26.4.1	Time limits for presentation and resolution of grievances may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
26.4.2	If the Employer does not comply with the time requirements, the grievance shall automatically proceed to the next step. A decision shall be timely if deposited in the mail within the time limits provided.
26.4.3	The various stages of this procedure shall, so far as practicable, be conducted during regular working hours.
26.4.4	Any fees or expenses involved in the arbitration proceeding for the arbitrator and stenographer shall be equally shared by the Employer and the aggrieved.
26.4.5	Class Action Grievance
26.4.5.1	Department: When a class of employees in the same department are affected by alleged grievances, the Union shall have the right to file such complaint(s) directly with the Department Head at Stage 2 of the grievance procedure.
,26.4.5.2 County: When a class of employees in more than one department is affected by alleged grievances, the Union shall have the right to file such complaint(s) directly to the County Executive or his designee at Stage 3 of the grievance procedure.
If, in a disciplinary grievance, discipline has been imposed by a Department Head, the grievance procedure may be entered at Stage 2.
26.5	REPRESENTATION
Representation at any step of the procedure shall be limited to:
a.	United Public Service Employees Union;
b.	Any other representative designated by the aggrieved except another employee organization or representative of another employee organization;
c.	The Union shall provide the Employer with a list of those individuals who are empowered to act as location representatives of the Union;
d.	The Union shall further provide the name of the individual to whom a record of all decision is to be forwarded;
' COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 35
e.	The Employer shall give reasonable notice as to dates for any hearings or meetings.
26.6	INFORMAL STAGE
Any employee who claims to have a grievance is encouraged to present his grievance to his immediate supervisor as soon as after the occurrence of the event giving rise to the grievance as is practical, orally, so that, if possible, the same expeditiously resolved on an informal basts.
26.7	INITIAL PRESENTATION - STAGE 1
a.	A grievance must be presented to the immediate supervisor in writing within fifteen (15} days after the grievance occurs or becomes know.
b.	The immediate supervisor shall discuss the grievance on an informal basis and take whatever investigative action he deems appropriate.
c.	Within ten (10) days after the presentation of the grievance, the immediate supervisor shall deliver a written decision to the aggrieved and the Union.
26.8	DEPARTMENTAL PRESENTATION - STAGE 2
a.	If the aggrieved be not satisfied with the decision made by his immediate supervisor, he may, within ten (10) days thereafter, request a review and
determination of the grievance by the Department Head. Such request must be in writing, contain a statement as to the specific nature of the grievance, and the facts relating to it and be accompanied by a copy of the grievance and the decision of the supervisor. Such request shall be served upon both the Department Head and the immediate supervisor to whom the grievance was originally presented.
b.	The Department Head or his designee may, and at the request of the aggrieved shall, hold a hearing within ten (10) days after receiving the written request and statement from the aggrieved. The aggrieved and his representative, if any, may appear at the hearing and present oral statement or arguments.
c.	Within ten (10) days after the close of the hearing, or within eight (8) days after the grievance has been submitted to him if there has been no hearing, the Department Head or his designee shall deliver a written decision to the aggrieved and the Union.
26.9	COUNTY EXECUTIVE - STAGE 3
a.	If the aggrieved is not satisfied with the decision of the Department Head he may, within ten (10) days thereafter, request a hearing of the grievance by the County Executive or his designee. In disciplinary grievances, the Director of Personnel and Personnel shall serve as the designee.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 36
b.	The County Executive or his designee shall be the final stage for all grievances other than those alleging a violation, misinterpretation or inequitable application of a specific provision(s) of this Agreement.
c.	The County Executive or his designee shall hold a hearing within ten (10) days of receipt of the request for review and shall give the parties at least three (3) days notice of the hearing date.
d.	New evidence, testimony or arguments, as well as any documents, exhibits or other information submitted at prior stages of the grievance procedure may be presented.
e.	Any hearing may be adjourned by the County Executive or his designee, buy any adjournment shall not exceed ten (10) days except with the mutual agreement of the aggrieved and the Employer.
f.	The County Executive or his designee shall not be bound by formal rules of evidence.
g.	A written summary shall be kept of each hearing.
h.	Within ten (10) days after the close of the hearing, the County Executive or his designee shall deliver a written decision to the aggrieved and the Union.
SECTION 27
ARBITRATION
27.1	An appeal to arbitration from an unsatisfactory decision at Stage 3 regarding a contract dispute may be made by the Union within ten (10) days of the receipt of the Stage 3 decision. An appeal to arbitration may not be made unless all requisite stages of the grievance procedure have been complied with or waived by mutual agreement of the parties. A disciplinary grievance shall not be arbitral unless the proposed penalty exceeds a five day suspension.
27.2	Intent to arbitrate shall be initiated by either party servicing written notice upon the other party. The notice shall identify the contract provision in dispute, the issue or issues to be determined and the department, employee or employees involved.
27.3	Upon receipt of the request to arbitrate, the PERB procedure shall be utilized. If the parties cannot agree on the arbitrator, the selection shall be made by lot from a panel.
27.4	The arbitrator shall have not power to add to, subtract from or modify the provisions of the contract in arriving at a decision of the issue presented and shall confine his decision solely to the application and interpretation of the contract.
27.5	The arbitrator shall confine himself to the precise issue submitted for arbitration and shall have no authority to determine any other issues not so submitted to him nor shall he submit observations or declarations of opinion which are not essential in reaching the determination.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 37
27.6	Within thirty (30) days of the close of the hearing or submission of briefs, the arbitrator shall deliver a written decision to the Union and the Employer.
27.7	The decision or award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding.
SECTION 28
PAST PRACTICE
This Agreement supersedes all prior Agreements and past practices relative to all matters herein contained. All past practices, duties and responsibilities, if any, relative to matters not subject of this Agreement, affecting terms and conditions of employment still remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 29
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
29.1	COPIES OF THE AGREEMENT
The Employer shall make available to each employee a copy of this Agreement.
29.2	MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT
Employees shall be reimbursed for the authorized use of their personal vehicles for official County business at the prevailing Internal Revenue Service authorized rate in effect on January 1 st of each of the years of the contract period. There will be no changing of the rates, except on January 1 st of each of the contract years. Employees shall, upon submission of a voucher, receive reimbursement within 60 days.
29.3	COUNTY VEHICLES
All employees who are presently assigned a County vehicle, on a permanent basis, for use on official County business shall have such continued as long as they remain in their present job title.
29.4	LABOR/MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
The purpose of this Section shall be to provide a forum to discuss and attempt to resolve matters of mutual concern and to avoid grievances.
29.4.1	Departmental Labor/Management Meetings shall, be composed of a maximum of eight members. Four members shall be appointed by the Employer and four by the Union.
The Labor/Management Meetings shall be held no more than once each calendar quarter upon request of either party. Meetings shall be held on a date and time to be agreed upon in advance by both parties with the requesting party submitting an agenda of the topics for discussion.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 38
29.42 LABOR COUNTYWIDE MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
Effective upon ratification in addition to labor management committees set forth herein, the parties agree to establish a Countywide labor management committee which shall meet quarterly. Each side shall be limited to 4 individuals unless increased by mutual agreement.
29.5	JOINT SAFETY COMMITTEE
A Joint Safety Committee will be established to review safety and health conditions in the County's various work locations. Individual safety committees shall be established at the Highway Department, Van Rensselaer Manor, the Sewer District and other work locations as needed.
The Safety Committee shall be comprised of six (6) members, three (3) of whom shall be designated by the Union from each respective work location, and three (3) by the County. The Safety Committee shall meet quarterly upon the request of either party.
The Safety Committee shall conduct investigations to determine whether or not a health or safety hazard exists and shall make recommendations for the solution of any hazards when they are found to exist.
29.6	EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL FILES
The Employer shall maintain a decentralized system among County departments for the filing of personnel documents relative to each employee covered by this Agreement. Upon request to the Department Head or his designee and in his/her presence, an employee shall be given an opportunity to review the contents of his/her personnel file and to place in such file a response to anything contained therein. In the event that the primary operating needs of the agency preclude the Department Head from immediately complying with an employee's request to review his/her personnel file, then the employee shall be given access to such file no later than two (2) work days following his/her initial request. No material pertaining to an employee's conduct, performance, character or personality, which is derogatory in nature, shall be placed in the personnel file without notification to the employee. The employee shall be given an opportunity to read such material and shall acknowledge this review by affixing his/her signature to same. It is understood that the employee's signature merely acknowledges that he/she has read such material, rather than, indicating agreement with its contents. Upon request, the employee shall be given a copy of such material. The union may review existing employee files on record upon the County's receipt of the appropriate release from the employee and upon the same terms as employee's review of their files.
29.7	SALARY STUDY:
The County shall pay up to $10,000.00 toward the cost of a county wide salary study to be performed and completed by a mutually agreed to outside agency specializing in such studies no later than December 31, 1998. The union agrees to fund any additional cost of the study. Both parties agree to maintain confidentiality of the study unless mutually agreed to by the parties.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 39
The parties agree to meet prior to April 1, 1998 for the purpose of selecting the agency to perform the study.
SECTION 30
UNIFORM ALLOWANCE
30.1	UNIFORM ALLOWANCE
All employees of Van Rensselaer Manor and Infirmary in the job titles listed below shall be paid, by the first pay period in October, a uniform allowance according to the following rates:
YEAR	ALLOWANCE
1997	$125.00
1998	$150.00
1999	$150.00
2000	$175.00
30.1.	a HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
All highway workers will be provided annually by the County, at no cost to the employee, five (5} orange t-shirts for safety purposes to be worn at the direction of the supervisor.
30.2	JOB TITLES:
Assistant Physical Therapist
Baker
Building Maintenance Mechanic
Cleaner
Cook
Dietetic Technician
Dietitian
Food Service Helper
Laborer
Laundry Worker
Leisure Time Activity Aide
Licensed Practical Nurse
Motor Vehicle Operator
Nurse Aide
Parking Lot Attendants
Pharmacist
Physical Therapy Aide
Registered Professional Nurse
Seamstress
Supervising Physical Therapist
Watchman
Working Supervisor
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 40
30.3	WINTER JACKETS
For the benefit of Parking Lot Attendants and Sewer District employees, the Employer will purchase and make available winter jackets to be used for work during assigned work shifts only. It is understood that such jackets are to remain the property of the Employer and shall be returned to the employer upon termination. A reasonable state of repair and cleanliness is the responsibility of the assigned user.
30.4	TOOL ALLOWANCE
All full-time Building Maintenance Workers, Building Maintenance Mechanics, Maintenance Workers and Automotive Mechanics who are required to provide their own tools on the job shall be paid, by the first pay period in October, a tool allowance according to the following rates:
YEAR	ALLOWANCE
1997	$225.00
1998	$250.00
30.5	PROTECTIVE FOOTWEAR ALLOWANCE
Each Highway Department and Sewer District employee shall be given a protective footwear allowance of up to $50.00 annually. The employee shall receive reimbursement upon presentation of the sales receipt to his Department Head. Footwear shall be worn at the direction of the supervisor. The parties agree to meet within 30 days of ratification to determine appropriate footwear.
30.6	MECHANICS
Mechanics shall be reimbursed up to $75.00 per year for the purchase of a jacket and/or coveralls. Reimbursement shall be made upon presentation of a sales receipt.
SECTION 31
DRUG & ALCOHOL POLICY
31.1	(SEE ADDENDUM IV}
31.2	DISCIPLINARY POLICY
Employees subject to requirements of the federal regulations (employees hold referenced to CDL licenses) concerning drug and alcohol testing employees shall be required to seek evaluation from the Substance Abuse Professional ("SAP") upon a confirmed positive test/or refusal to take test as soon as practicable after receiving notice of a confirmed positive test/refusal.
The employee shall be required to implement compliance of SAP's recommendation within 45 days of receipt of same.
" COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 41
The employee shall remain on unpaid status (though he/she may utilize accrual sick, personal or vacation time) until such time as he/she complies. Section 75 rights shall not be afforded employees during this period.
t
An employee failing to comply with recommendations within an additional 45 days shall be disciplined in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and shall thereafter be afforded Section 75 rights as set forth in the agreement.
**This provision shall be effective for employees hired subsequent to the ratification of this agreement.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 42
TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective as of January 1, 1997, and shall continue in full force and effect to and including December 31,2000, and thereafter from year to year until a successor agreement has been negotiated.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 43
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

Agreement made and entered into this w day of July, 1997 by and between the County of Rensselaer (hereinafter “County”) and United Public Service Employees Union Local 424 (hereinafter “Union”).
Whereas the parties have executed a Memorandum of Agreement on July 30, 1997, containing terms and conditions for a successor collective bargaining agreement to the agreement covering the period January 1,1994 through December 31,1996; and
Whereas the parties wish to clarify a certain provision of said Memorandum of Agreement:
Therefore, the parties agree as follows:
1. Addenda I and II to the collective bargaining agreement shall not be pan of the other Memorandum of Agreement dated July 30, 1997. Rather, the parties expressly agree to meet within five (5) working days from the date hereof and to meet as often as mutually agreed over the ensuing thirty (30) calendar days for the purpose of reaching agreement on the titles to be included and excluded from the bargaining unit. In any event, the parties agree that they shall conclude an agreement on the contents of Addenda I and II no later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date hereof. Any dispute regarding titles to be included and excluded from the bargaining unit which has not been resolved shall be brought before the Public Employment Relations Board (PERB).
Agreed to:
United Public Service Employees Union
Local 42^
Countv of Rensselaer
<Henry F. Zwack County Executive
ADDENDUM I
TITLES EXCLUDED FROM THE BARGAINING UNIT
. .UDITORS
County Auditor
Deputy County Auditor
Confidential Assistant to County Auditor
BOARD OF ELECTIONS
Commissioner of Elections
Custodian of Records
Election Registrar
Sr. Election Registrar
Voting Machine Custodian
Sr. Voting Machine Custodian
BUDGET
Director of Budget
Program Associate
Sr. Program Associate
Secretary to Budget Director
BUREAU OF RESEARCH & INFORMATION SERVICES
. Commissioner of BRIS
( Tincipal Programmer Analyst
Secretary to Commissioner of BRIS
CENTRAL SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION:
Director of Central Services
Deputy Director of Central Services
Secretary to Director of Central Services
CENTRAL PRINTING:
Principal Mail & Reproduction Clerk
BUILDINGS:
Superintendent of Buildings
COUNTY ATTORNEY
County Attorney
Deputy County Attorney
Assistant County Attorney
Secretary to County Attorney
Law Intern
COUNTY CLERK
County Clerk
Deputy County Clerk
Secretary to County Clerk
COUNTY EXECUTIVE
County Executive
Executive Assistant
Executive Secretary
Secretary to Deputy County Executive
DISTRICT ATTORNEY
District Attorney
First Assistant District Attorney
Assistant District Attorney
Secretary to District Attorney
Confidential Assistant to District Attorney
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT & Planning
Director of Economic Development & Planning Assistant Director of Economic Development & Planning
Secretary to the Director of Economic Development & Planning
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING
Commissioner
Deputy Commissioner
Secretary to Commissioner
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
COUNCIL/DYKEN POND
Director of Environmental Management
Council
FINANCE
Chief Fiscal Officer
Deputy Chief Fiscal Officer
Confidential Assistant to the CEO
Secretary to the CFO
Financial Review Specialist
Fiscal Operations Manager
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
Public Health Director
Deputy Director - Administration
Deputy Director - Children with Special Needs
Chief Medical Examiner
Medical Consultant
Secretary to Director
Director TB Control
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 44
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
Deputy County Engineer
'"'eputy County Engineer - Administration
*. .ssistant Highway Superintendent Secretary to County Engineer
LEGISLATURE:
CLERK OF LEGISLATIVE BOARD
Clerk of Legislature
Director of Constituent Relations Secretary to Clerk of Legislature
LEGISLATIVE BOARD
Chairman
Vice Chairman
County Legislator
Legal Counsel to Majority Legal Counsel to Minority Director of Communications Secretary to Chairman Legislative Assistant - Majority Legislative Assistant - Minority
MENTAL HEALTH
Commissioner
Deputy Commissioner of Mental Health
Director of Clinical Administration
Staff Psychiatrist
Associate Fiscal Analyst
Chief Psychologist
Supervising Psychologist
Director of Substance Abuse Services
PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT
Director of Personnel
Deputy Director of Personnel
Labor Relations & Personnel Aide
Benefits Representative
Stenographer
Human Resource Specialist
PROBATION DEPARTMENT
Probation Director II
PUBLIC DEFENDER
Public Defender
Assistant Public Defender
Secretary to Public Defender
REAL PROPERTY TAX SERVICES
Director of Real Property Tax Services Secretary to the Director of Real Property
STOP DWI
Coordinator of Stop DWI
UNIFIED FAMILY SERVICES
Commissioner of UFS
DETENTION SERVICES
Detention Services Director
Assistant Detention Services Director
YOUTH SERVICES
Deputy Commissioner - Youth Secretary to Deputy Commissioner
AGING SERVICES
Deputy Commissioner - Aging Coordinator of Center Operations Secretary to Deputy Commissioner Confidential Assistant
VETERANS SERVICE AGENCY
Director of Veterans
SEWAGE DISTRICT
Commissioners
Chairman of Commissioners
Administrative Director
Director of Operations/Maintenance Legal Counsel
SOCIAL SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION
Commissioner of Social Services Executive Deputy
Deputy Commissioner Administrative Services
Deputy Commissioner of Social Services
Assistant Social Services Attorney Administrative Assistant Secretary to Commissioner
VAN RENSSELAER MANOR
Executive Director Director of Nurses Assistant Administrator Senior Stenographer Labor Relations & Personnel Aide Assistant Physician
Chaplain Dentist Physician
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 45
I	ADDENDUM II 1	TITLES INCLUDED IN THE BARGAINING UNIT	
GRAPE 15 4 4 20 18 hourly 14 hourly 17 13 11 3 10 8 10 22 ungraded 22 ungraded 15 8 9 12 ungraded 12 ungraded 14 22 ungraded 22 4 hourly hourly 8 hourly hourly 8 1 hourly 12 10 9 7 22 ungraded 20 18 15 13 9 21 20 18 17	TITLE OF JOB Accountant Account Clerk Account Clerk Typist Accounting Supervisor, Grade A	I Accounting Supervisor, Grade B	1 Activities Aide Administrative & Personnel Technician	1 Aging Service Aide Aging Services Center Director 1	- Aging Services Center Director II Aging Services Center Director III Aging Services Representative Aging Services Specialist Assistant Aging Services Center	Director	1 Assistant Computer Operator	| Assistant Coordinator Substance	Abuse	| Assistant Director of Nursing	| Assistant Director of Substance Abuse Services Assistant Economic Developer Assistant Environmental Educator Assistant Housekeeper Assistant Physical Therapist Assistant Sanitary Code Enforcement Officer Assistant Secretary to County Attorney Assistant Superintendent of Buildings Assistant Supervising Nurse Assistant Veterans Counselor Associate Account Clerk Associate Programming Analyst Associate Public Health Engineer Associate Public Health Sanitarian Audit Clerk Automotive Mechanic Automotive Mechanic Helper Baker Barber Boiler Attendant Bookkeeping Machine Operator Bridge Supervisor Building Attendant 1 Building Attendant II Building Maintenance Mechanic Building Maintenance Worker Building Mechanical Engineer Case Manager Case Supervisor A Case Supervisor B Caseworker Caseworker Trainee Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant Chief Social Welfare Examiner Child Protective Coordinator Child Protective Supervisor Child Protective Worker
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 46
ADDENDUM II TITLES INCLUDED IN THE BARGAINING UNIT
GRAPE hourly 2 10 4 ungraded ungraded 19 1 13 2 12 12 ungraded ungraded 14 20 9 | ungraded 120 | ungraded 20 17 ungraded 15 16 3 13 21 18 12 20 18 9 19 5 ungraded 15 12 19 22 ungraded hourly 14 21 20 16 12 hourly ungraded 18 9 hourly 9 hourly 4 |_4		TITLE OF JOB Cleaner Clerk Clinical Billing Specialist Clinical Receptionist Community Development Administrator Community Development Specialist Community Prevention Coordinator Community Service Aide Community Service Coordinator Community Service Worker Computer Operator Computer Records Recording Supervisor Computer Supervisor (E-911) Confidential Assistant to Public Defender Confidential Investigator Consulting Dietician Cook Coordinator of Delinquent Property Tax Coordinator of Disability Services Coordinator of Elementary Education Program Coordinator of MICA Services Coordinator of Nursing Training Coordinator of Restorative Services County Detective Court Consultation Specialist Criminal Justice Specialist Data Entry Machine Operator Developmental Disability Social Work Aid Dietetic Services Director Dietetic Service Supervisor Dietetic Technician Dietitian Director of Patient & Family Services Director of Weights and Measures II Draftsperson E911 Coordinator E911 Technician Early Care Service Coordinator Early Care Service Worker Employment and Training Assistant Employment and Training Job Developer Environmental Educator Epidemiology Nurse Food Service Helper Food Service Manager Forensic Coordinator GIS Coordinator GIS Technician II GIS Technician III Groundskeeper Head Nurse Head Social Welfare Examiner Highway Dispatcher Highway Supervisor II Home Health Aide Homemaker
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 47
	ADDENDUM II
TITLES INC	tLUDED IN THE BARGAINING UNIT
grade	TITLE OF JOB
12	Information Processing Technician II	1
13	Intake & Referral Assistant	1
1 ungraded	Junior Civil Engineer	| Laboratory Director	1
hourly	Laborer	1
hourly	Laborer - Highway	1
hourly	Laundry Worker
hourly	Leisure Time Activities Aide
12	Leisure Time Activities Director
ungraded	Licensed Practical Nurse
9	Maintenance Helper
13	Maintenance Mechanic - Sewer
22	Maintenance Supervisor - Sewer
7	Maintenance Worker
18	Managed Care Coordinator
9	Managed Care Examiner
12	Management Information Specialist
24	Mental Health Case Manager
16	Mental Health Case Manager II
18	Mental Health Information Coordinator
ungraded	Mental Health Program Coordinator
22	Mental Health Team Leader
13	Mental Health Social Work Aide
20	Mental Health Social Worker 1
18	Mental Health Social Worker II
17	Mental Health Social Worker III
3	Messenger
18	Microcomputer Support Analyst
8 hourly	Mortgage Tax Cashier Motor Equipment Operator (Heavy)
hourly	Motor Equipment Operator (Light)
15	Motor Equipment Parts Man
ungraded	Motor Vehicle Financial Supervisor
8	Motor Vehicle License Clerk
4	Motor Vehicle Operator
ungraded	Multi-Disciplinary Team Liaison
17	Network Administrator
hourly	Nurse Aide
7	Nutrition Site Manager
hourly	Occupational Therapist
10	Office Manager
ungraded	Paralegal
hourly	Parking Lot Attendant	.
12	Pest Control Foreman
20	Pharmacist
5	Photocopy Machine Operator
18	Physical Therapist
hourly	Physical Therapist Aide
8	Pistol Permit Processing Clerk
16	Planner
ungraded	Planning Aide
122	Principal Accountant
112	Principal Account Clerk
|8	Principal Clerk
|7	Principal Data Entry Operator
113		Principal Motor Vehicle License Clerk	|
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT Page 48
ADDENDUM II TITLES INCLUDED IN THE BARGAINING UNIT
GRADE	TITLE OF JOB
24 14 10 15 9 6 8 17 13 22 14 12 ungraded 17 6 22 9 ungraded 18 12 ]ungraded | ungraded 20 I ungraded 14 5 | hourly 1 5 13 |ungraded 9 ungraded | ungraded 120 J hourly 10 7 13 hourly ungraded 12 17 8 hourly 10 17 4 6 14 17 1 ungraded [ungraded 12 12 18 10 12 15	Principal Programmer Analyst II Principal Social Welfare Examiner	1 Principal Stenographer Principal Stores Clerk Principal Typist Printing Machine Operator Probation Assistant Probation Officer Probation Officer Trainee Probation Supervisor Processing Technician 1 Processing Technician II Program Associate (Mental Health) Programmer Analyst Public Health Aide Public Health Engineer Public Health Nursing Director Public Health Sanitarian Public Health Technician Public Health Nurse Quality Assurance Nurse Quality Assurance Specialist Rad. & Chern. Officer Real Property Assistant Receptionist Records Management Coordinator Records Receiving Clerk Records Room Supervisor Recreation Therapist Registered Nurse Registered Professional Nurse Rehabilitory Coordinator Relief Motor Vehicle Operator Research Assistant Resource Assistant Sanitary Code Enforcement Officer Seamstress Secretary to Assistant Public Defender Security Supervisor Senior Accountant Senior Account Clerk Senior Automotive Mechanic Senior Building Maintenance Mechanic Senior Case Worker Senior Clerk Senior Clerk Typist Senior Computer Operator Senior Early Care Service Worker Senior Economic Developer Senior Election Registrar Senior Employment & Training Assistant Senior Engineering Aide Senior Fiscal Analyst Senior Houseparent Senior Laboratory Technician Senior Maintenance Mechanic
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 49
1	ADDENDUM II 1	TITLES INCLUDED IN THE BARGAINING UNIT	
GRAPE 8 24 10 10 18 20 20 17 20 14 13 17 8 16 10 6 7 10 4 ungraded 18 ungraded 9 18 8 15 15 ungraded 14 18 20 14 ungraded 4 3 18 18 19 19 20 19 22 21 ungraded 15 22 14 15 9 9	TITLE OF JOB Senior Medical Audit Clerk Senior Mental Health Team Leader Senior Mortgage Tax Cashier Senior Motor vehicle License Clerk	1 Senior Planner	I Senior Probation Officer	| Senior Programmer Analyst	1 Senior Public Health Educator Senior Public Health Sanitarian Senior Public Health Technician 1 Senior Public Health Technician II Senior Purchasing Agent Senior Real Property Clerk Senior Resource Consultant Senior Social Welfare Examiner Senior Stenographer Senior Stores Clerk Senior Support investigator Senior Typist Senior Voting Machine Custodian Senior Welfare Investigator Social Service Job Developer Social Welfare Examiner Social Worker Social Worker Aide Social Worker Assistant Special Investigator (Confidential) Special Projects Assistant Special Teacher Speech Pathologist Staff Development Coordinator Staff Development Technician Staff Psychologist Stenographer Stores Clerk Student Assistance Specialist Student Assistant Program Education Counsel Substance Abuse Prevention Educator Substance Abuse Prevention Coordinator Substance Abuse Specialist Supervising Mental Health Nurse Supervising Pharmacist Supervising Physical Therapist Supervising Public Health Nurse Supervising Support Investigator Supervising Wastewater Plant Operator Supervisor of Billing Supervisor of Tax Mapping Services Support Collection Supervisor Support Collector Support Investigator
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 50
	ADDENDUM II	1
TITLES INCLUDED IN THE BARGAINING UNIT	
GRADE	TITLE OF JOB
14	Tax Map Technician
4	Telephone Operator
8	Title Searcher
|ungraded	Transportation Coordinator
3	Typist
14	Utilization Review Screener
15	Utilization Review Specialist
10	Veterans Counselor
I ungraded	Victim's Liaison Coordinator
18	Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor
| hourly	Voting Machine Custodian
I ungraded	VRM Assistant Supervisor of Nursing
ungraded	VRM Head Nurse
ungraded	VRM Registered Professional Nurse
17	Wastewater Plant Operator
2	Ward Clerk
hourly	Watchman
hourly	Welder/Fabricator
15	Welfare Investigator
9	Welfare Management Systems Coordinator
6	Working Supervisor
hourly	Working Supervisor - Highway
ungraded	Youth Outreach Worker
13	Youth Services Worker	
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 51
I
ADDENDUM III - SALARY SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO 8/13/97)										
Pay	1/1/97	1 /1 /97	1 st full pay pd 7/97	1st full pay pd 7/97	1/1/98	1/1/98	1/1/99	1/1/99	1/1/00	1/1/00
Grade	2%	2%	1%	1%	3%	3%	3.25%	3.25%	3.50%	3.50%
	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade
1	$17,240	$17,540	$17,415	$17,715	$17,946	$18,246	$18,539	$18,839	$19,198	$19,498
2	$17,803	$18,103	$17,984	$18,284	$18,533	$18,833	$19,145	$19,445	$19,826	$20,126
3	$18,396	$18,696	$18,583	$18,883	$19,149	$19,449	$19,781	$20,081	$20,484	$20,784
4	$19,046	$19,346	$19,240	$19,540	$19,826	$20,126	$20,480	$20,780	$21,207	$21,507
5	$19,683	$19,983	$19,883	$20,183	$20,488	$20,788	$21,164	$21,464	$21,915	$22,215
6	$20,321	$20,621	$20,528	$20,828	$21,153	$21,453	$21,850	$22,150	$22,625	$22,925
7	$20,960	$21,260	$21,172	$21,472	$21,816	$22,116	$22,535	$22,835	$23,334	$23,634
8	$21,710	$22,010	$21,930	$22,230	$22,597	$22,897	$23,341	$23,641	$24,168	$24,468
9	$22,540	$22,840	$22,768	$23,068	$23,460	$23,760	$24,232	$24,532	$25,091	$25,391
10	$23,510	$23,810	$23,748	$24,048	$24,469	$24,769	$25,274	$25,574	$26,169	$26,469
11	$24,361	$24,661	$24,607	$24,907	$25,354	$25,654	$26,188	$26,488	$27,115	$27,415
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 52
1
ADDENDUM III SALARY SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO 8/13/971
Pay	1/1/97	1/1/97	1st full pay pd 7/97	1st full pay pd 7/97	1/1/98	1/1/98	1 /1 /99	1/1/99	1/1/00	1/1/00
Grade	2%	2%	1%	1%	3%	3%	3.25%	3.25%	3.50%	3.50%
	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade
12	$25,213	$25,513	$25,468	$25,768	$26,241	$26,541	$27,104	$27,404	$28,063	$28,363
13	$26,429	$26,729	$26,696	$26,996	$27,506	$27,806	$28,410	$28,710	$29,415	$29,715
14	$27,689	$27,989	$27,969	$28,269	$28,817	$29,1 17	$29,763	$30,063	$30,815	$31,115
15	$29,273	$29,573	$29,569	$29,869	$30,465	$30,765	$31,465	$31,765	$32,577	$32,877
16	$30,548	$30,848	$30,856	$31,156	$31,791	$32,091	$32,834	$33,134	$33,994	$34,294
17	$31,829	$32,129	$32,150	$32,450	$33,124	$33,424	$34,210	$34,510	$35,418	$35,718
18	$33,583	$33,883	$33,922	$34,222	$34,949	$35,249	$36,095	$36,395	$37,369	$37,669
19	$35,328	$35,628	$35,684	$35,984	$36,764	$37,064	$37,969	$38,269	$39,308	$39,608
20	$37,029	$37,329	$37,402	$37,702	$38,533	$38,833	$39,795	$40,095	$41,198	$41,498
21	$38,731	$39,031	$39,122	$39,422	$40,305	$40,605	$41,625	$41,925	$43,092	$43,392
22	$40,432	$40,732	$40,839	$41,139	$42,073	$42,373	$43,450	$43,750	$44,981	$45,281
23	$42,133	$42,433	$42,557	$42,857	$43,843	$44,143	$45,278	$45,578	$46,873	$47,173
24	$43,833	$44,133	$44,275	$44,575	$45,612	$45,912	$47,104	$47,404	$48,763	$49,063
25	$45,536	$45,836	$45,994	$46,294	$47,383	$47,683	$48,933	$49,233	$50,656	$50,956
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 53
SALARY/HOURLY RATE SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO 8/13/971
HOURLY	1/1/97	1/1/97	1st hill pay pd 7/97	1st fuR pay pd 7/97	1/1/98	1/1/98	1/1/99	1/1/99	1/1/00	1/1/00
TITLES	2%	2%	1%	1%	3%	3%	3.26%	3.25%	3.50%	3.50%
	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade
Aging Service Aide	8.832	8.972	8 922	9 062	9.194	9.334	9.497	9.637	9 834	9.974
Automotive Mechanic	12.063	12.203	12.185	12.325	12.555	12 695	12.968	13.108	13.427	13.567
Automotive Mechanic Helper	11.022	11 162	11.133	11.273	11 471	11.611	11.848	11.986	12.268	12.408
Barber	16.338	16.478	16.503	16 643	17.002	17.142	17.559	17.699	18.178	18.318
Boiler Attendant	8.704	8 844	8 793	8.933	9.061	9.201	9.360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Cleaner	8 704	8.844	8 793	8 933	9.061	9 201	9.360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Dispatcher	8.704	8.844	8 793	8.933	9.061	9.201	9.360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Food Service Helper	8.704	8.844	8 793	8.933	9.061	9.201	9.360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Highway Dispatcher	12 079	12.219	12.201	12.341	12.571	12.711	12.984	13.124	13.443	13.583
Highway Supervisor It	14.488	14.628	14.634	14.774	15.077	15.217	15.572	15.712	16.122	16.262
Laborer	.	8.704	8.844	8.793	8.933	9.061	9.201	9.360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Laborer (Highway)	8.853	8.993	8 943	9 083	9.215	9.355	9 519	9.659	9.857	9 997
Laundry Worker	8 704	8 844	8 793	8 933	9 061	9 201	9 360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Leisure Time Activities Aide	8 704	8 844	8.793	8 933	9 061	9 201	9 360	9.500	9 693	9 833
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 54
SALARY/HOURLY RATE SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO 8/13/97)
HOURLY	1/1/97	1/1/97	1st lull pay pd 7/97	1st Ml pay pd 7/97	1/1/98	1/1/98	1/1/99	1/1/99	1/1/00	1/1/00
TITLES	2%	2%	1%	1%	3%	3%	3.25%	3.25%	3.50%	3.50%
	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade
MEOH	12.063	12 203	12 185	12.325	12.555	12.695	12.968	13.108	13.427	13.567
MEOL	11.193	11.333	11.307	11 447	11.650	11.790	12.033	12.173	12.459	12.599
Nurse Aide	6 704	8 844	8 793	8.933	9 061	9.201	9 360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Painter	8.704	8.844	8 793	8 933	9 061	9.201	9.360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Parkins Lot Attendant	8.704	B 844	8.793	8.933	9.061	9.201	9.360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Physical Therapist Aide	8.704	8.844	B.793	8.933	9.061	9.201	9.360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Seamstress	8 704	8 844	8 793	8 933	9 061	9.201	9.360	9.500	9.693	9.833
Senior Auto Mechanic	14 488	14 628	14.634	14.774	15.077	15.217	15.572	15.712	16.122	16.262
Watchman	9.788	9,928	9 887	10027	10.188	10.328	10.524	10.664	10 897	11.037
Working Supervisor {Highway)	12 275	12 415	12.400	12 540	12.776	12.916	13.196	13 336	13.663	13 803
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 55
SALARY SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED 8/13/97 ON)								
Pay	8/13/97	1/1/98	1/1/98	1/1/99	1/1/99	1/1/00	1/1/00	1/1/00
Grade		3%	3%	3.25%	3.25%	3.5%	3.5%	3.5%
	0-1 years	0-1 years	1 -3 years	0-1 years	1 -3 years	0-1 years	1-3 years	3 + years
1	$ IS,944	$16,421	$17,334	$16,955	$17,897	$17,548	$18,523	$19,498
2	$16,456	$16,950	$17,891	$17,501	$18,473	$18,113	$19,120	$20,126
3	$16,995	$17,504	$18,477	$18,073	$19,077	$18,706	$19,745	$20,784
4	$17,586	$18,113	$19,120	$18,702	$19,741	$19,356	$20,432	$21,507
5	$18,165	$18,709	$19,749	$19,318	$20,391	$19,994	$21,104	$22,215
6	$18,745	$19,308	$20,380	$19,935	$21,043	$20,633	$21,779	$22,925
7	$19,325	$19,904	$21,010	$20,552	$21,693	$21,271	$22,452	$23,634
8	$20,007	$20,607	$21,752	$21,277	$22,459	$22,021	$23,245	$24,468
9	$20,761	$21,384	$22,572	$22,079	$23,305	$22,852	$24,121	$25,391
10	$21,643	$22,292	$23,531	$23,017	$24,295	$23,822	$25,146	$26,469
11	$22,416	$23,089	$24,371	$23,839	$25,164	$24,674	$26,044	$27,415
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 56
SALARY SCHEDULE 1997 2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED 8/13/97 ON)
Pay	8/13/97	1/1/98	1/1/98	1/1/99	1/1/99	1/1/00	1/1/00	1/1/00
Grade		3%	3%	3 25%	3.25%	3.5%	3.5%	3.5%
	0-1 years	0-1 years	1 -3 years	0-1 years	1-3 years	0-1 years	1 -3 years	3-*- years
12	523,191	$23,887	$25,214	$24,664	$26,034	$25,527	$26,945	$28,363
13	$24,296	$25,025	$26,416	$25,839	$27,275	$26,744	$28,229	$29,715
14	$25,442	$26,205	$27,661	$27,057	$28,560	$28,004	$29,559	$31,115
15	$26,882	$27,689	$29,227	$28,589	$30,177	$29,589	$31,233	$32,877
16	$28,040	$28,B82	$30,486	$29,821	$31,477	$30,865	$32,579	$34,294
17	$29,205	$30,082	$31,753	$31,059	$32,785	$32,146	$33,932	$35,718
IB	$30,800	$31,724	$33,487	$32,756	$34,575	$33,902	$35,786	$37,669
19	$32,386	$33,358	$35,211	$34,442	$36,356	$35,647	$37,628	$39,608
20	$33,932	$34,950	$36,891	$36,086	$38,090	$37,348	$39,423	$41,498
21	$35,480	$36,545	$38,575	$37,733	$39,829	$39,053	$41,222	$43,392
22	$37,025	$38,136	$40,254	$39,375	$41,563	$40,753	$43,017	$45,281
23	$38,571	.	$39,729	$41,936	$41,020	$43,299	$42,456	$44,814	$47,173
24	$40,118	$41,321	$43,616	$42,664	$45,034	$44,157	$46,610	$49,063
25	$41,665	$42,915	$45,299	$44,310	$46,771	$45,860	$48,408	$50,956
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 57
SALARY/HOURLY RATE SCHEDULE 1 *>*17-2000 (EMPLOYE/ 'RED 8/13/97 ONI
HOURLY	8/13/97	1/1/99	1/1/98	1/1/99	1/1/99	1/1/00	1/1/00	1/1/00
TITLES		3%	3%	3.25%	3.25%	3.50%	3.60%	3.50%
	0-1 years	0 1 years	1-3 yews	0-1 years	1-3 years	0-1 years	13 years	• w t * a
Aging Service Alda	8 156	8.401	a 867	8.673	9.155	8.977	9.475	9.974
Automotive Mechanic	11 093	11 426	12 060	11.797	12.453	12.210	12.889	13.567
Automotive Mechanic Helper	10 146	10 450	11 030	10 789	11.389	11.167	11.788	12.408
Berber	14 979	15.428	16 285	15.929	16 814	16.486	1 7.402	18.318
Boiler Attendant	8 040	8.281	8 741	8 550	9.025	8.850	9 341	9.833
Cleaner	8 040	8 281	8 741	8 550	9.025	8.850	9.341	9.833
Dispatcher	8.040	8.281	8.741	8.550	9 025	8.850	9.341	9 833
Food Service Helper	8 040	8 281	8 741	8 550	9 025	8 850	9.341	9.833
Highway Dispatcher	11.107	1 1,440	12.075	11.812	12.468	12.225	12.904	13.583
Highway Supervisor II	13 297	13 695	14.456	14 141	14 926	14 636	15.449	16.262
Laborer	8.040	8 281	8 741	8 550	9 025	8 850	9 341	9 833
Laborer (Highway)	8 175	8 420	8.887	8.693	9 176	8.997	9.497	9 997
Laundry Worker	8.040	8.281	8.741	8.550	9,025	8.850	9.341	9 833
Leisure Time Activities Aide	8 040	8.281	8,741	8 550	9,025	8 850	9 341	9.833
ME OH	11 093	11 426	12.060	11.797	12.453	12.210	12.889	13.567
MEOL	10.302	10 611	11.201	10.956	11.564	11.339	11.969	12.599
Nurse Aide	8.040	8 281	8.741	8.550	9.025	8.850	9.341	9.833
Painter	8 040	8 281	8.741	8.550	9 025	8 850	9 341	9 833
Perking lot Attendant	8 040	8.281	8 741	8.550	9 025	8 850	9.341	9 833
Physical Therapist Aide	8 040	8 281	8 741	8.550	9 025	8 850	9 341	9 833
Seamstress	8.040	8 281	8 741	8.550	9.025	8 850	9.341	9 833
Senior Auto Mechanic	13 297	13 695	14,456	14.141	14 926	14.636	15.449	16.262
Watchman	9.024	9.295	9 812	9 598	10.131	9 933	10.485	11 037
Wording Supervisor (Highway)	1 1 286	1 1.624	t2 270	12 002	12 669	12 423	13 113	13.803
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 58
SALARY SCHEDULE 1997-2000 (EMPLOYEES 8/13/97 ON)								
VAN RENSSELAER MANOR	8/13/97	1/1/98	1/1/98	1/1/99	1/1/99	1/1/00	1/1/00	1/1/00
NURSING TITLES		3%	3%	3.25%	3.25%	3.5%	3.5%	3.5%
	0-1 years	0 1 years	1 -3 years	0-1 years	1 -3 years	0-1 years	1 -3 years	3 + years
Ass't. Dir. of Nursing	$34,808	$35,852	$37,844	$37,018	$39,074	$38,314	$40,442	$42,571
Ass't Sup. of Nursing	$33,696	$34,707	$36,635	$35,834	$37,825	$37,089	$39,150	$41,210
Quality Assurance Nurse	$32,566	$33,543	$35,407	$34,633	$36,557	$35,845	$37,837	$39,828
Utilization Review Nurse	$29,642	$33,543	$35,407	$34,633	$36,557	$35,845	$37,837	$39,828
Head Nurse	$31,314	$32,253	$34,045	$33,302	$35,152	$34,467	$36,382	$38,297
RN	$29,642	$30,531	$32,227	$31,523	$33,274	$32,626	$34,438	$36,251
LPN	$23,351	$24,052	$25,388	$24,834	$26,213	$25,703	$27,131	$28,559
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 59
SALARY SCHEDULE 1997 2000 (EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO 8/13/97)										
VAN RENSSELAER MANOR	1/1/97	1/1/97	1st full pay pd 7/97	1st full pay pd 7/97	1/1/98	1/1/98	1/1/99	1/1/99	1/1/00	1/1/00
NURSING TITLES	2%	2%	1%	1%	3%	3%	3.25%	3.25%	3.50%	3.50%
	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade	start	grade
Ass't. Dir. of Nursing	$37,993	$38,293	$38,376	$38,676	$39,536	$39,836	$40,831	$41,131	$42,271	$42,571
Ass't Sup. of Nursing	$36,769	$37,069	$37,140	$37,440	$38,263	$38,563	$39,516	$39,816	$40,910	$41,210
Quality Assurance Nurse	$35,525	$35,825	$35,884	$36,184	$36,970	$37,270	$38,181	$38,481	$39,528	$39,828
Utilization Review Nurse	$32,309	$32,609 ’	$32,635	$32,935	$36,970	$37,270	$38,181	$38,481	$39,528	$39,828
Head Nurse	$34,148	$34,448	$34,493	$34,793	$35,537	$35,837	$36,702	$37,002	$37,997	$38,297
RN	$32,309	$32,609	$32,635	$32,935	$33,623	$33,923	$34,725	$35,025	$35,951	$36,251
LPN	$25,389	$25,689	$25,646	$25,946	$26,424	$26,724	$27,293	$27,593	$28,259	$28,559
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 60
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
ADDENDUM IV CDL DRUG TESTING POLICY
Page 61
COUNTY OF RENSSELAER
FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF
TRAN SPORTATION
DRUG $ ALCOHOL
POLICY & PROGRAM
INTRODUCTION:
On September 15, 1986,President Reagan issued an Executive order mandating a drug-free Federal Workplace with the intent that the Federal workforce would serve as a model for all American business. Subsequent to this, the Department of Health and Human Service (DHHS) published on April 11, 1988, Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Program. <
On October 28, 1991, President Bush signed the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act (OTETA) of 1991. The Act required the Federal Department of Transportation to develop additional regulations that required drug and alcohol testing of additional safety-sensitive employees in the aviation, highway, rail and transit industries.
Specific regulations which impact Rensselaer County are:
Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 40 - Specifies procedures which must be followed by the County when conducting drug and/or alcohol testing pursuant to Federal regulations.
Title 49 CFR Part 382 - Controlled Substances and Alcohol Use and Testing - Requires employers to test their employees who maintain Commercial Drivers License (CDL) in the performance of their duties for prohibited drugs and alcohol under the following work-related condi ti ons:
a.	Pre-employment / Pre-assignment
b.	Post-accident
c.	Random
d.	Reasonable cause / suspicion
e.	Return-to-duty
f.	Follow-up
Copies of these regulations are available upon request.
1
Section I:	Purpose
Rensselaer County recognizes that the use and/or abuse of alcohol or controlled substances by drivers of commercial vehicles or Employees in safety-sensitive positions present a serious threat to the safety and health of Employees and the general public. It is the policy of the County that its drivers and safety-sensitive support personnel should be free of drugs and alcohol in compliance with the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991. The County has implemented a drug and alcohol testing program which is designed to help reduce and avbid traffic accidents and injuries to our employees and the public, to discourage substance and alcohol abuse and to reduce other drug and alcohol-related problems.
Section II:	Covered Employees
For purposes of this policy, the County strictly prohibits the use of alcohol and/or controlled substances by its Employees who are ' performing, ready to perform, or ceasing to perform the following safety-sensitive job functions:
1.	Operation of a commercial motor vehicle;
A listing of Covered Job Titles is provided in Appendix B.
Section III:	Policy
BI TE.D_ CONDUCT
County policy prohibits Employees for engaging in the following conduct:
1.	Using, possessing, dispensing, distributing, selling, or receiving alcohol, intoxicants, illegal drugs or other controlled substances on County premises, or while engaged in County business;
2.	Reporting to work under the influence or with any measurable amount of alcohol, intoxicants, illegal drugs,or other controlled substances in their system;
2
3.	Reporting to work under the influence of a prescription drug, unless the Employee's physician determines that the use of the prescription drug will not adversely affect the Employee's ability to perform a safety-sensitive function. Note that the Federal regulations include prescription medications containing alcohol in the substances banned from use in the workplace. Therefore, Employees should not report for duty while taking prescription medication if such medication contains any measurable amount of alcohol;
4.	Consuming any amount of alcohol, intoxicants, illegal drugs,or other controlled substances while on duty or within four (4) hours of reporting for duty; or
5.	Refusing to undergo or cooperate in any alcohol or drug testing required by this Policy.
6.	Misusing the policy in regard to subordinates.
7.	Providing false information in connection with a test, falsifying test results through tampering, contamination, adulteration, or ' substitution.
Any'.Employee who violates any of the rules set forth above is subject to discipline, up to and including termination.
h___PROHIBITED ALCOHOL USAGE
Safety-sensitive Employees may not consume alcohol:
1.	Within four (4) hours before performing a safety-sensitive function;
2.	While performing a safety-sensitive function;
3.	After a fatal accident unless the Employee has been tested or eight (8) hours have elapsed from the actual time of the accident; or
4.	After a non-fatal accident unless the employee’s involvement can be completely discounted as a contributing factor to the accident, the employee has been tested or eight (8) hours have elapsed from the actual time of the accident.
C, PROHIBITED USE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
The unauthorised use of any controlled substance is strictly prohibited in all situations.
3
Section IV:	Definitions
For purposes of this Anti-Drug and Alcohol Misuse Plan, the following definitions apply:
"Accident”: An occurrence involving a Commercial Motor Vehicle operating on a public road which results in:	.
a.	a fatality	■
b.	bodily injury to a person who, as a result of the injury, immediately receives medical treatment away from the scene of the accident; or
c,	one or more motor vehicles incurring disabling damage as a result of the accident, requiring the vehicle to be transported away from the scene by a tow truck or other vehicle.
If an Employee is ticketed for a moving traffic violation as a result of an accident while driving a Commercial Motor Vehicle, the employee is subject to a Drug and Alcohol test under the Plan.
"Al cohol": Means the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohols including methyl and isopropyl alcohol.
"Alcohol concentration (or content)": Means the alcohol in a volume of breath expressed in terms of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath as indicated by an evidential breath test under this part.
"Alcohol use": Means the consumption of any beverage, mixture, or preparation, including any medication containing alcohol, "Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT)"; An individual who instructs and assists individuals in the Alcohol testing process and operates an Evidentary Breath Testing Device (EBT).
"Collection Site": A designated clinic/facility where applicants or employees may present themselves for the purposes of providing a specimen of their urine to be analyzed for the presence of Drugs or providing a sample of their breath to be analyzed for the presence of Alcohol.
"Commercial Motor Vehicle: Means a motor vehicle or combination of motor vehicles used in commerce to transport passengers or property if the motor vehicle:	.
a.	Has a gross combination rating of 26,001 or more pounds inclusive of a towed unit with a gross vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds; or
4
b.	Has a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 or more pounds; or;
c.	Is designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver;or
d.	Is of any size and is used in the transportation of materials found to be hazardous for the purposes of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act which require the motor vehicle to be placarded under the Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR part 172, subpart F).
"Confirmation Tes't": For alcohol testing, means a second test, following a screening test with a result of 0.02 or greater, that provides quantitative data of alcohol concentration. For controlled substances, testing means a second analytical procedure to identify the presence of a specific drug or metabolite, which is independent of the screen test and which uses a different technique and chemical principle from that of the screen test in order to ensure reliability and accuracy (Gas chromatography/mass spectrophotometry (GC/MS) is the only authorized confirmation method for cocaine, marijuana, opiates, amphetamines, and phencyclidine).	.	*
"Cut-Off Levels": The minimum value established for designating a test result as positive.
"Driver": Means any person who operates a commercial motor, vehicle. This includes, but is not limited to, full time, regularly employed drivers; casual, intermittent or occasional drivers; leased drivers and independent, owner-operator contractors who are either directly employed by or under lease to an employer or who operate a commercial motor vehicle at the direction of or with the consent of any employer. For the purposes of a pre-employment or pre-duty testing only, the driver includes a person applying to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
"Drugs (Prohibited)": All controlled substances including, but not limited to marijuana, cocaine, amphetamines, phencyclidine and/or opiates .
"Fail a Drug Test or Test Positive" i The confirmation test result shows positive evidences of the presence under DOT procedures of a prohibited Drug in the Employee's or applicant’s system.
"Medical Review Officer (MRO)": A licensed physician (medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy) responsible for receiving laboratory results generated by an employer's Drug testing program who has knowledge of substance abuse disorders and has appropriate medical training to interpret and evaluate an individual’s confirmed positive test result together with that individuals' medical history and any other biomedical information.
5
"Pass a Drug Test or Test Negative": That initial testing or confirmation testing under DOT procedures does not show evidence of the presence of prohibited Drug in the Employee’s or applicants system.
"Refuse to submit to an alcohol or controlled substances test": Means that a Employee either;
a.	Fails to provide adequate breath for testing without a valid medical explanation after he or she received notice of the requirement for breath testing in accordance with the provisions of this part,
b.	Fails to provide adequate urine for controlled substances testing without a valid medical explanation after receiving notice of the requirement for urine testing in accordance with the provisions of this part, or
c.	Engages in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process.
"Screening test (also known as initial test V*: In alcohol testing,‘it means an analytical procedure to determine whether a driver may have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in his or her system. In controlled substance testing, it means an immunoassay screen to eliminate "negative" urine specimens from further consideration.
"Substance Abuse Profession (SAP)": Means a licensed physician
‘(Medical Doctor or Doctor of Osteopathy), or a licensed or certified psychologist, social worker, employee assistance professional, or addiction counselor (certified by the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Commission) with knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of alcohol and controlled substances-related disorders.
Section V:	Responsibilities
Drug/Alcohol Program Manager (DAPM):
Appendix A identifies the responsible individual(s). The DAPM shall be responsible for the preparation of the Drug and Alcohol Testing Policy which complies with requirements of the Department of Transportation regulations as set forth in Title 49 CFR Parts 382 and 40. The DAPM shall be responsible for:
providing oversight and evaluation of the Policy;
providing guidance and counseling;	'
reviewing of all discipline applied under the Policy for consistency and conformance to the Personnel Department’s policies and procedures;
overseeing the Third Party Administrator;
maintaining a secure file system on drug/alcohol testing results; keeping all necessary records.
6
Third Party Administrator LTPA)
It is the intent of the County to contract with a private Health Care System Provider as a Third Party Administrator (See Appendix A), The TPA will be responsible for: scheduling random drug and alcohol testing; collection of all drug and alcohol samples at a testing site(s) meeting the requirements of the OTETA regulation 40.25;	•
providing all alcohol testing using EBT devices which meet the guidelines and specifications of National Highway Safety Administration, providing all drug testing including blind testing in compliance with the OTETA requirements; providing the service of a certified MRO as required by the OTETA; keeping all necessary records associated with the services provided.
The County shall ensure that all Covered Employees are aware of the provisions and coverage of this Policy.	-
Supervisors:
Supervisors are responsible for observing the performance and behavior of Employees, documenting events which might require reasonable cause testing and requesting a second supervisor for substantiation and concurrence for reasonable cause testing, if available. A listing of titles designated as supervisor is provided in Appendix B.
Covered Employees:
Each Covered Employee has the responsibility to be knowledgeable of the requirements of the Plan and to fully comply with the provisions of the Plan. Covered Employees must notify their supervisor of any criminal drug statute conviction within five (5) days of such conviction. Upon receipt of such notification or other notice for a violation occurring within the workplace, the County will, as required by law, advise the appropriate governmental agency to which it has a contract of such conviction. A Covered Employee using drugs prescribed by a licensed physician or any other therapeutic drug use is required to notify his supervisor when such use may impact the Employee’s ability to perform his duties safely.
7
Section VI:	Drug and Alcohol Testing Requirements
A,__APPLICABILITY
Individuals Subject to Drue and Alcohol Testing: Any Employee who has a CDL for the performance of his duties under 49 CFR Part 382 or who is performing safety-sensitive functions would be subject to Drug/ Alcohol testing under the Plan. Refer to Appendix B for specific job titles subject to testing under the Plan.
Procedure for Notifying Employees: All Covered Employees will be provided a complete copy of the Policy and Plan. (See Appendix F)
Substances for Which Testing Must Be Conducted: The County shall test each Covered Employee listed in Appendix B for evidence of the following substances:
. Marijuana
• Cocaine Opiates Phencyclidine (PCP) Amphetamines Al coho!
The cutoff levels for detecting these Drugs/Alcohol are follows:
Initial Test Cutoff Levels (ng/ml)
Marijuana metabolites Cocaine metabolites Amphetamines Phencyclidine Opiates metabolites Alcohol
50 300 1,000
25
300 *
.02 (g/1)
*25 ng/ml if immunoassay specific for free morphine
Confirmatory Test Cutoff Levels (ng/ml)
Marijuana metabolite Cocaine metabolites Opiates:
15
150
Morphine Codeine
Phencyclidine Amphetamines:
300 300
25
Alcohol
Amphetamine Methamphetamine
500
500
•02 (g/1)
8
B.	REQUIRED DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTS:
Pre-Emolovment/Pre-Assignment Testing:
A pre-employment drug and alcohol'test must be conducted before an individual is hired or contracted and when an individual is transferred/promoted from a noncovered to a covered position. This also applies to Employees returning from paid or unpaid leave of 30 days or more who have not been participating in the Drug and Alcohol Testing policy and have not been subject to the random selection process. A negative test is required prior to performing safetysensitive functions.
Post-Accident Testing:
If the accident involves a Commercial Motor Vehicle and falls within the definition of accident described in Section IV, the Employee shall be drug tested as soon as possible but no later than 32 hours after the accident (See Appendix D). Each Employee shall also be alcohol tested within two (2) hours of the accident if possible but no later than eight (8) after the accident. The County must take all reasonable steps to obtain a urine specimen and breath, sample from an * Employee after an accident, as defined above, but any injury should be treated first.
Random Testing:
The primary purposes of random testing are to deter prohibited drug and alcohol use and to ensure a drug-free and alcohol-free workforce. Regulations require that Covered Employees shall be subject to drug and alcohol testing on an unannounced and random basis. The County shall conduct a number of drug tests on all Covered Employees equal to at least 50 percent of the average number of Covered Employees each calendar year, spread reasonably over a 12 month period. In addition, the County shall conduct a number of alcohol tests on Covered Employees equa1 to at least 25 percent of the number of such Covered Employees each calendar year, spread reasonably over a 12 month period. The following is an out line of the key aspects of the random testing selection process:
a.	Employees remain in the random selection pool at all times, regardless of whether or not they have been previously selected for testing.
b.	Employees shall be selected for testing in a statistically random manner so that all persons within the group have an equal opportunity of selection on each occasion.
c.	The process will be unannounced as well as random. Employees will be notified that they have been selected for testing after they have reported for duty on the day of the collection. See Appendix C.
9
The employee Notification and Testing Procedures are outlined in Appendix E.
Reasonable Cause/Susoicion Testing:
Reasonable cause/suspicion is designed to identify drug and/or alcohol affected Employees who may pose a danger to themselves and others in their job performance. Employees may be at work in- a condition that raises concern regarding their safety or productivity. Supervisors must then make a decision as to whether there is reasonable cause to believe an Employee is using or has used a prohibited drug and/or alcohol (See Appendix D). Supervisors will be provided with training designed to identify the signs and symptoms of drug and/or alcohol use.
The decision to test must be based on a reasonable and articulate belief that the Employee is using a prohibited drug and/or alcohol on the basis of specific, current, physical, behavioral or performance indicators of probable drug and/or alcohol use. In making a determination of reasonable cause, the factors to be considered include, but are not limited to, the following: ■
a.	Adequately documented pattern of unsatisfactory work performance, for which no apparent non-impairment related reason exists, or a change in an Employee's prior pattern of work performance.
b.	Physical signs and symptoms consistent with substance abuse.
c.	Evidence of illegal drug or alcohol use, possession, sale or delivery while on duty.
d.	Occurrences of a serious or potentially serious accident that may have been caused by human error or flagrant violations of established safety, security or other operational procedures.
Anytime an Employee tests positive for alcohol (0.02) a supervisor will arrange to transport the Employee from the collection site to the Employee's home. Anytime an Employee is drug tested under the reasonable cause or post-accident section of this Policy, the Employee shall not perform any safety-sensitive duties pending the receipt of the drug test results.
Return-to-Dutv Testing:
An Employee who refuses to take or fails a drug or alcohol test may not return to duty (i.e perform safety-sensitive functions) until the Employee passes a drug test and alcohol test, if applicable, and the Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) has determined that the Employee may return to duty (i.e. perform a safety-sensitive function). The County SAP is listed in Appendix A.
10
Section VII:	Use of Employee Who Fails or Refuses a Drug/Alcohol Test
Compliance with the County's Drug and Alcohol Testing Policy is a condition of employment. If an Employee refuses to take a required test or fails'* drug and/or alcohol test, he shall be removed from safety-sensitive functions and placed on leave without pay. Additional disciplinary action up to,and including termination may result.	’
The County shall not use any employee in a safety-sensitive function who either fails a' drug test as verified by the MRO, fails an’alcohol test as verified by the BAT or refuses to take a drug and/or alcohol test as required by this Policy.
Before an Employee returns to duty requiring the performance of a safety-sensitive function after engaging in conduct prohibited by this Policy, the Employee shall undergo a return-to-duty drug and/or alcohol test with a result indicating an alcohol concentration of less 0.02 if the conduct involved alcohol; or an illegal drug test with a. verified negative result if the conduct involved ‘illegal drugs.
In addition, each Employee identified as needing assistance in resolving problems associated with alcohol misuse or illegal drug shall be:	,
a.	Evaluated by The County SAP to determine that the Employee has properly followed any rehabilitation program prescribed by the SAP. Employee shall be responsible for all rehabilitation charges in excess of those covered under the County's Medical Plan, and;
b.	Subject to unannounced follow-up alcohol and illegal drug tests administered by the County following the Employee's return to duty. The number and frequency of such follow-up testing shall be prescribed by the SAP and conforming to the OTETA regulations. The Employee is responsible for the cost of return to duty and all follow up testing.
Section VIII:	Specimen Collection & Testing Laboratory
A. General :	■
All collection or testing of samples will be done by the Third Party Administrator listed in Appendix A.
11
W7W
■B, Collection Sites:
The Collection Sites shall have all necessary personnel, materials, equipment, facilities and supervision to provide for the collection, security, temporary storage and shipping of urine specimens to a certified testing laboratory; and to conduct alcohol tests by a Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT) trained to proficiency in the operation of the Evidentiary Breath Testing Device (EBT).
C. Certified Laboratory:
The testing laboratory shall be certified under DHHS Mandatory 'Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs; 53 Federal
Register 11970, April 11, 1988 and subsequent amendments. The laboratory shall provide services in accordance with Part 40 and Part 382. The name and address of each laboratory used by the Third Party Administrator is contained in Appendix A. The laboratory shall permit inspections by the County, the FHWA Administrator, or if the County is subject to the jurisdiction of a state agency, a representative of the state agency.	■
Section IX:	Review of Drug Testing Results
A.	General Information
The County shall contract with the Third Party Administrator for the services of an MRO for this drug testing policy in accordance with the requirements of Title 49 CFR40.33. The MRO shall be a licensed physician with knowledge of drug abuse disorders. The MRO shall review all negative and positive drug test results and interview individuals tested positive to verify the laboratory report before the County is notified. The review of negative tests may be an administrative process to ensure the chain-of-custody procedures were intact.
B.	Positive Test Results:
Following verification of a positive test result, the MRO shall, as provided in the County’s policy, refer the case to the DAPM (or designee) for action.
C.	Reconfirmation Analysis:
The MRO shall notify each Employee with a confirmed positive test that the Employee has 72 hours in which to request a test of the split specimen. If the Employee requests an analysis of the split specimen within 72 hours of having been informed of a verified positive test,
12
the MRO shall direct in writing, the laboratory to provide the split specimen to another DHHS certified laboratory for analysis. If the analysis of the split specimen fails to reconfirm the presence of the drug(s) found in the primary specimen, is unavailable, inadequate for testing, or not testable, the MRO shall cancel the test and report the cancellation and the reasons for it to the DOT, the County, and the Employee.	.	'
D,	Disclosure of Information:
Except as provided in this paragraph, the MRO shall not disclose to any third party medical information provided by the individual to the MRO as a part of the testing verification process. The MRO may disclose such information to the County, DOT or other Federal safety agency, or a physician responsible for determining the medical qualification of the Employee under the appropriate DOT regulation, as applieable, only if:
a.	An applicable DOT regulation permits or requires such . disclosure.	*
b.	In the MRO's reasonable medical judgment, the information could result in the Employee being determined to be
' medically unqualified under any applicable DOT rule; or c. In the MRO’s reasonable medical judgment, in a situation in which there is no DOT rule establishing physical qualification standards applicable to the Employee, the information indicates that continued performance by the employee of his or her covered function could pose a significant safety risk.
Before obtaining medical information from the Employee as part of the verification process, the MRO shall inform the employee that information may be disclosed to third parties as provided in this paragraph and the identity of any parties to who information may be disciosed.
Section X:	Record Keeping Procedures
A, General Information:
The DAPM (or designee) shall maintain a locked file system which will contain drug and/or alcohol test results. This file shall be maintained as confidential. Employee files shall be handled on strict "need-to-know" basis.
13
Drug and/or alcohol test results shall not be included in personnel files. Information regarding an individual’s drug and/or alcohol testing results or rehabilitation may be released only upon written consent of the affected Employee, except:
a.	Such information must be released regardless of consent to DOT or other government agency as a part an accident investigation; or
b.	Such information may be disclosed regardless of consent in a lawsuit, grievance or other proceeding initiated by or on behalf o'f the Employee and arising from a verified positive drug and/or alcohol test.
Statistical data related to drug and/or alcohol testing and rehabilitation that is not name-specified and training records may be released to DOT or other governmental agencies upon request.
IL__Employee Access:
An employee is entitled, upon written request, to obtain copies of any records pertaining to the Employee's use of alcohol or drugs, including any records pertaining to his alcohol or drug test.
C, Location of Records:	-
All records required by 49 CFR shall be maintained and shall be made available for inspection at the County's principal place of business within two (2) business days after a request has been made by an authorized representative of the FHWA.
(3/1/95)
14
APPENDIX A
RENSSELAER COUNTY DRUG PERSONNEL AND SERVICES
1.	Drug/Alcohol Program Manager (DAPM)
County Personnel Director
County Assistant Personnel Director
2.	Medical Review Officer (MRO)
Provided By Third Party Administrator
3.	Third Party Administrator
.	Corporate Health Services
'	Samaritan Hospital (Tentative)
4.	Substance Abuse Professional (SAP)
County Mental Health Department Out Patient Drug Free Clinic
5.	Certified Laboratory
To Be Provided By Third Party Administrator
APPENDIX B
P.EMSS E L. A.C3R QUNTY JOB TITLEL? SUHJECT TO TEST .1. MO
DEPARTMENT
TITLE
SEWER DISTRICT
HEO (HEAVY)
HIGHWAY
MEO (LIGHT)
MEO (HEAVY) WORKING SUPERVISORS SUPERVISORS II MECHANICS WELDER FABRICATOR SENIOR MECHANIC
EMPLOYEES REQUIRING TRAINING
DEPARTMENT
SEWER DISTRICT
TITLE
MAINTENANCE SUPERVISORS DIRECTOR OK OPERATIONS MAINTENANCE
HIGHWAY
SUPERVISOR. II SUPERVISOR I SENIOR MECHANIC ASST. HIGHWAY SUPERINTENDENT DEPUTY COUNTY ENGINEER.
COUNTY ENGINEER
APPENDIX C
RENSSELAER COUNTY
RANDOM DRUG TESTING . NOTIFICATION
(To Be	SECTION 1 NOTIFICATION FOR TESTING Filled Out By Department Supervisor or Designee)				
					
Date of Notification	Time of Notification	j Fitness for Duty Contact		Person	
					
DEPARTMENT SUPERVISOR, OR DESIGNEE [DEPARTMENT FROM:			LOCATION	j	PHONE#	
					
SELECTED PERSON NAME (PRINT) TO:		SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER			
1)	Be advised that you have been selected for testing in the Rensselaer County Drug and Alcohol Testing Program, on this date of notification.
2)	Selected testing will be at:_____________________________________
3)	Reason for absence ______________________________________________
Department Supervisor/Designee Signature
SECTION 2 - ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF APPOINTMENT
I have been notified to report to the site designated above.in Section 1, Item 2 for Drug and/or Alcohol Testing on the date listed in Section 1 "Date of Notification".
Submitted Persons Signature
Time Signed/Date Signed
APPENDIX D
RENSSELAER COUNTY FITNESS FOR DUTY	’
REASONABLE SUSPICION AND POST ACCIDENT TESTING
Please Check Appropriate Testing Criteria
1	|	Reasonable Suspicion	
As part of a Cause Fitness For Duty determination, you are being directed to submit/a drug and alcohol test to determine your fitness for duty. Understand that if you refuse to be tested, you will immediately be suspended from work, and become subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of empl oyment. Having read and understood the above: |' |	j refuse to be tested as required by my supervisor. 1	1	I agree to be tested as required by my supervisor.	-
1	1	Post Accident Testing	
As part of a Post Accident Fitness For Duty determination you are being directed to submit to a drug and alcohol test to verify that you are not impaired due to the use of illegal drugs or alcohol. Understand that if you refuse to be tested, you will immediately be suspended from work, and become subject to disciplinary action up to and inc1uding termination of employment. Having read and understood the -above: 1	1	I refuse to be tested as required by my supervisor. 1 |	I agree to be tested as required by my supervisor.	
	
Social Security Number	Signature Date	Time	Witness/Supervisor Union Representative (If Applicable)	
APPENDIX E
RENSSELAER COUNTY
RANDOM DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
EMPLOYEE NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE
1.	A random list is generated and is sent to th,e appropriate Supervisor or designee on a timely basis.
2.	Upon receipt of random drug testing lists, the Supervisor will promptly notify and schedule the employee(s) that have been randomly selected to participate in drug testing that day. Every attempt shall be made to test randomly selected employees within 2 hours of notification.
3.	The Supervisor will complete the appropriate Random Testing form and have the seiected employee complete the acknow!edg-ment portion of the form.
4.	If an individual selected for random testing is unavailable due to any of the following listed reasons, it shall be considered an approved excuse for non-participation.
Illness of injury Authorised time off (jury duty, leave of absence, vacation, etc.)
5.	The appropriate Supervisor should provide the selected employee with the appropriate chain of custody form. County employees will either drive or be transported to an identified collection site by supervision where the employee will be required to show appropriate identification and produce a specimen in accordance with established protocol and procedures.
6.	If the selected employee refuses to comply with the request by supervision to be drug tested or if the employee fails to show up for testing, it will be considered as a positive test and result in appropriate actions.
APPENDIX
RENSSELAER COUNTY
FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION DRUG AND ALCOHOL PROGRAM INFORMATION RECEIPT
I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE RECEIVED THE DOCUMENT ENTITLED:
"RENSSELAER COUNTY FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY & PROGRAM"
NAME (PLEASE PRINT)
DATE
SIGNATURE
SUPERVISOR PLEASE CHECK BOX IF EMPLOYEE CHOOSES NOT TO SIGN RECEIPT
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
APPENDIX A DENTAL BENEFIT SCHEDULE
Page 62
	RENSSELAER COUNTY DENTAL !	SCHEDULE	
CODE	Revised January 1, 1998 CLASS OF DENTAL	DENTAL NO.*	PROCEDURE	SERVICE		Appendix A BENEFIT PAYABLE
DIAGNOSTIC			
Clinical Oral Examinations (Not more than one examination of either type in a 6 consecutive month period)			
0110 0120 0130	Initial Oral Examination	 Periodic Oral Examination	 Emergency Oral Examination	1 1 1	20.00 15.00 15.00
Radiographs (includes examination and diagnosis)			
0210	Intraoral - complete series (including bitewings)-limited to one series in a 36 consecutive month period		1	30.00
0220	Intraoral periapical/ single, first film		1	3.00
0230	Intraoral periapical, each additional film		1	3.00
0240	Intraoral, occlusal, single, first film		1	10.00
0250	Extraoral, single, first film		. 1	7.00
0260	Extraoral, each additional film...	1	7.00
0270	Bitewing - single film**		1	6.00
			
0272	Bitewings - two films**		1	6.00
			
0274	Bitewings - four films**		1	18.00	.
** Bitewings are limited to one service in a 6 consecutive month period.			
0290	Posteroanterior and lateral skull film		1	30.00 30.00
0321	Temporomandibular joint, single film		1	
* These Code Numbers are not part of the Schedule. They are based on the American Dental Association Uniform Code of Dental Procedures and Nomenclature and are furnished only for the convenience of dentists.
DENTAL SCHEDULE (Continued)
CLASS OF
DENTAL	DENTAL
CODE NO.*	PROCEDURE	SERVICE
0330 Panoramic, maxilla and mandible, single film-limited to one service in a 36 consecutive month period............................ 1
BENEFIT PAYABLE
30.00
PREVENTATIVE
Dental Prophylaxis, not more than one in a 6 consecutive month period)		
1110 Persons age 14 or older		1	30.00
1120 Persons under age 14		1	20.00
Fluoride Treatments (limited to one service in a 12 consecutive month period and to persons under age 19)		
1203 Topical application of sodium		
fluoride - series of 4 treatments		
(excluding prophylaxis)		1	15.00
Space Maintainers (to replace prematurely lost teeth of dependent child under age 14)		
1510 Fixed, unilateral type		1	75.00
1515 Fixed, bilateral type		1	100.00
1570 Removable		1	50.00
RESTORATIVE
Amalgam Restorations (incl. polishing)
2110	Amaigam, one surface, deciduous	2	30.00
2120	Amalgam, two surface, deciduous		40.00
2130	Amalgam, three surfaces, deciduous		2	.	50.00
2131	Amalgam, four or more surfaces, deciduous		2	50.00
2140	Amalgam, one surface, permanent	2	30.00
2150	Amalgam, two surfaces, permanent	2	40.00
2160	Amalgam, three surfaces, permanent	2	50.00
2951	Pin retention - exclusive of amalgam		2	15.00
Silicate Restorations
2210 Silicate cement, per restoration..................................... 2
15.00
2
DENTAL SCHEDULE (Continued)
CIASS OF DENTAL	DENTAL
CODE NO.* PROCEDURE	SERVICE BENEFIT PAYABLE
Composite Restorations
2330&2337 Composite	resin,	one	surface....!	35.00
2331&2339 Composite	resin,	two	surfaces...!	45.00
!33!&!339 Composite	resin,	three surfaces.!	50.00
Composite resin (involving
incisal angle...................2	40.00
Gold Foil Restorations
2410	Gold	foil,	one surface	.	..	3	35.00
2420	Gold	foil,	two surfaces	.	..	3	45.00
2430	Gold	foil,	three surfaces			..	3	50.00
Gold	Inlay	Restorations			
2520	Inlay, gold, two surfaces		3	75.00
2530	Inlay, gold, three surfaces		3	100.00
2540	Onlay, per tooth (in addition to above)		3	50.00
Crowns - Single Restorations Only (Fees for permanent crowns include charge for temporary crowns)			
2710	Plastic (acrylic)		3	65.00
2720	Plastic with gold		3	187.00
2721	Plastic with nonprecious metal..	3	187.00
2722	Plastic with semiprecious metal.	3	187.00
2740	Porcelain		3	187.00
2750	Porcelain with gold		3	187.00
2751	Porcelain with nonprecious metal	3	187.00
2752	Porcelain with semiprecious metal	3	187.00
2790	Gold (full cast)		3	150.00
2791	Nonprecious metal (full cast)...	3	187.00
2792	Semiprecious metal (full cast)..	3	187.00
2810	Gold (3/4 cast)		3	187.00
2952	Cast post and core in addition to crown		3	50.00
Other	Restorative Services		
2910	Recement inlays		2	35.00
2920	Recement crowns		2	35.00 55.00
2950	Crown buildups-pin retained		2	
3
DENTAL SCHEDULE (Continued)
DENTAL		CLASS OF DENTAL SERVICE	BENEFIT PAYABLE
	CODE NO.*	PROCEDURE		
-	ENDODONTICS Pulpotomy (excluding final restoration) 3220 Vital pulpotomy		2	50.00
	Root Canal Therapy (includes treatment plan, clinical procedures and follow-uj care but excludes final restoration) 3310 One canal		> 2	175.00
	3320 Two canals		2	225.00
	3330 Three canals		2	275.00
	Periapical Services 3410 Apicoectomy, Anterior		2	140.00
	3411 Each Additional Tooth		2	50.00
	3420 Root resection		2	245.00
	3920 Hemisection		2	50.00
PERIODONTICS
Surgical Services (including usual post-operative services; only one of the following services is covered per quadrant)
4210	Gingivectomy or gingivoplasty, per quadrant		2	135.00
4220	Gingival curettage and root planning, per quadrant		2	85.00
4240	Gingival flap procedures, per quadrant		2	250.00
4250	Mucogingival surgery, per quadrant		2	250.00
4260	Osseous surgery (including flap entry and closure) per quadrant..	2	250.00
4261	Osseous graft, single site (including flap entry, closure and donor site)		2	250.00
4270	Pedicle soft tissue grafts		2	250.00
4271	Free soft tissue grafts (including donor site)		2	250.00
4
DENTAL SCHEDULE (Continued)
CLASS OF
DENTAL	DENTAL
CODE NO.*	PROCEDURE	SERVICE
Adjunctive Periodontal Services
4340 Periodontal scaling and root planning (per quadrant).............. 2
Other Periodontal Services 4910 Preventive periodontal procedures (periodontal prophylaxis).............	2
PROSTHODONTICS - REMOVABLE
BENEFIT PAYABLE
40.00
70.00
(Benefits for dentures and partial dentures include adjustments within 6 months after installation)
Complete Dentures - including six months postdelivery care
5110	Complete upper.................... 3
5120	Complete lower.................... 3
5130	Immediate upper................... 3
5140	Immediate lower................... 3
200.00
200.00
125.00
125.00
Partial Dentures - including six months postdelivery care
5211	Upper - without clasps, acrylic base		3	143.00
5212	Lower - without clasps, acrylic base		3	143.00
5213	Upper - with two gold clasps with rests, acrylic base		3	212.00
5214	Upper - with two chrome clasps with rests, acrylic base		3	212.00
Repairs to Dentures 5610 Repair broken complete or partial			
	denture, no teeth damaged		2	45.00
5620	Repair broken complete or partial denture, and replace one broken tooth		2	28.00
5630	Replace additional teeth, each tooth		2	75.00
5640	Replace broken tooth on denture, no other repairs		2	50.00
5
DENTAL SCHEDULE (Continued)
COPE NO,*
DENTAL PROCEDURE
CLASS OF
CLASS
OF DENTAL SERVICE
BENEFIT PAYABLE
5650 Adding tooth to partial denture to replace extracted tooth, each tooth (not involving clasp or abutment tooth)............................ 2	70.00
5660 Adding tooth to partial denture to replace extracted tooth, each tooth (involving clasp or abutment
	tooth)		2	70.00
Denture Relining			
5730	Relining upper or lower complete denture (office reline)		2	75.00
5740	Relining upper or lower partial denture (office reline)		2	75.00
5750	Relining upper or lower complete denture (laboratory)		2	100.00
5760	Relining upper or lower partial denture (laboratory)		2	100.00
PROSTHODONTICS - FIXED (each abutment and each pontic constitutes a unit			
in a	bridge)		
Bridge Pontics			
6210	Cast gold		3	90.00
6211	Cast nonprecious		3	90.00
6212	Cast semiprecious		3	100.00
6240	Porcelain fused to gold		3	100.00
6241	Porcelain fused to nonprecious metal		3	100.00
6242	Porcelain fused to semiprecious metal		3	100.00
6250	Plastic processed to gold		3	100.00
6251	Plastic processed to nonprecious metal		3	100.00
6252	Plastic processed to semiprecious metal		3	100.00
Retainers
6520 Gold inlay, two surfaces............ 3
6530 Gold inlay, three or more surfaces.................................. 3
75.00
100.00
6
DENTAL SCHEDULE (Continued)
CLASS
DENTAL CODE NO.*	PROCEDURE	OF DENTAL SERVICE	BENEFIT PAYABLE
6540 Gold inlay (onlaying clasps), additional per tooth		3	60.00
6545 Cast metal retainer (for acid etch bridge)		3	70.00
Crowns 6720 Plastic processed to gold		3	165.00
6721 Plastic processed to nonprecious metal		3	150.00
6722 Plastic processed to semiprecious		
metal		3	150.00
6750 Porcelain fused to gold		3	190.00
6751 Porcelain fused to nonprecious metal				3	150.00
6752 Porcelain fused to seimprecious metal			3	150.00
6780 Gold (3/4 cast)		3	110.00
6790 Gold (full cast)		3	150.00
6791 Nonprecious metal (full cast)...	3	150.00
6792 Semiprecious metal (full cast)..	3	150.00
Other Prosthetic Services 6930 Recement bridge		2	35.00
6950 Precision attachment		3	100.00
ORAL SURGERY
Simple extractions {includes local anesthesia and routine postoperative care)
7110 Single tooth......................... 2	30.00
7120 Each additional tooth................ 2	30.00
7
DENTAL SCHEDULE (Continued)
CLASS OF DENTAL	DENTAL
CODE NO.*	PROCEDURE	SERVICE BENEFIT PAYABLE
Surgical Extractions (includes local anesthesia and routine postoperative care)
7210	Extraction of tooth, erupted....	2	50.00
7220	Impaction that requires incision of overlying soft tissue and the removal of the tooth		2	100.00
7230	Impaction that requires incision of overlying soft tissue, elevation of a flap, removal of bone, and the removal of the		
	tooth		2	125.00
7240	Impaction that requires incision of overlying soft tissue, elevation of a flap, removal of bone, and sectioning of the tooth for removal		2	150.00
7241	Impaction that requires incision of overlying soft tissue, elevation of a flap, removal of bone, sectioning of the tooth for removal, and/or presents unusual difficulties and circumstances..	2	170.00
7250	Root recovery (surgical removal of residual root)		2	50.00
7260	Oral antral fistula closure (and/ or antral root recovery)		2	200.00
Other	Surgical Procedures		
7270	Tooth replantation		2	50.00
7280	Surgical exposure of impacted or unerupted tooth for orthodontic reasons - including wire attachment when indicated		2	50.00
7285	Biopsy of oral tissue (hard)....	2	50.00
7286	Biopsy of oral tissue (soft)....	2	50.00
Alveoplasty (surgical preparation of			
ridge	for dentures)		
7310	Per quadrant - in conjunction with extractions		2	50.00
7320	Per quadrant - not in conjunction with extractions		2	100.00
&
DENTAL SCHEDULE (Continued)
CIASS OF
DENTAL	DENTAL
CODE NO.*	PROCEDURE	SERVICE
OTHER SERVICES
Emergency Treatment
9110 Palliative (emergency) treatment
of dental pain, minor procedures 2
9310 Consultation - per session........	2
Anesthesia
9220 General - to produce an unconscious state in the dentist’s office........................ 2
-Annual Maximum for all services:
-Dependents to Age 19
Students to Age 25
BENEFIT PAYABLE
15.00
35.00
100.00
$1200.00
9
EXHIBITS 1 & 2 HEALTH BENEFITS & LEVELS OF BENEFITS
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Page 63
Exhibit 2
AGREEMENT MADE AND ENTERED INTO THIS 31“ DAY OF OCTOSER 1996 BY AND BETWEEN RENSSELAER COUNTY (HEREINAFTER “COUNTY") AND UNITED PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION LOCAL 424 (HEREINAFTER “UNION”).
WHEREAS, the parties are desirous of modifying the current terms of its agreement concerning health coverage, and
WHEREAS, the parties have negotiated an agreement to modify certain provisions of Section 24 of its agreement dated August 8“, 1994 in order to provide Hospitalization, Indemnity/PPO, Prescription Drug and Vision Care benefits under a single plan, and
NOW, THEREFORE IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Effective January 1, 1997 the parties hereto agree that Section 24.1 and 24.2 (1“ paragraph) shall be replaced in whole with the following:
SECTION-24
INSURANCE-COVERAGE
A) HEALTH INSURANCE
24.A.1.A Commencing January 1,1997, the Employer shall offer to eligible members of the bargaining unit, a Hospitalization, Indemnity/PPO, prescription drug health plan. The levels of coverage shall be as specified in the plan design agreement attached hereto and made a specific part hereof as Exhibits 1 and 2 . The plan shall be the sole health care plan offered by the County during the term of this Agreement The County intends to contract with Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield to provide the benefits specified in Exhibits 1 and 2. Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield has represented to the County that services provided at CHP Health Centers will be participating providers in their Blue Choice P.P.O.
Network. If at any time during the course of the contract with Empire, or any subsequently approved provider, CHP Health Centers are not participating providers, then all claims for benefits made for services provided by covered subscribers who use CHP Health Centers will be treated as in-network claims and paid accordingly. The parties further agree that all CHP Network Physicians from whom Rensselaer County employees have received services prior to December 31, 1996 shall be considered as in-network providers for all employees and all claims for services from such physicians, shall be paid as in-network claims under the plan. The parties agree that the County may continue to contract with Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield or any other administrator in its sole
A. tr discretion during the term of this Agreement provided the benefits and ' *	[W* 41 levels thereof specified in Exhibits 1 and 2 are equal or better. ,
24.A.1.B Employees hired after January 1,1997 shall be eligible for health coverage under the plan, 120 calendar days from their date of hire .
24.A.2 For the first two (2) years of this agreement, the parties agree that members of the bargaining unit who are employed on a frill time basis
. .ehall be required to pay 514.27 for single coverage and-537.B2 let family (My cave rage in each pay-period (ompleyees paid weekly will hovo the r ...
muh.Luiu i..f the Usigamiffg unit who jJc gi. .played or. & full Line LuUts shall be required to pay S14.27 for single coverage and S37.32 for family coverage in each pay period (employees paid weekly will have the deduction mace pro-rata). Less than full time employees shall pay :cr coverage in the first 24 months of this agreement pursuant to Exhibit 3 attached hereto and made part hereof.
It is expressly agreed between the Employer and the Union that this paragraph, paragraph 24.A.2, shall expire on December 31,1998 and shall be of no further force or effect after that date and shall be replaced by the provisions set forth in 24.A.3 below.
24.A.3	Commencing January 1, 1999, the Union and the Employer agree that the
Employer shall contribute the dollar equivalent of 80% of the premium cost of individual and family health insurance coverage for all employees who elect coverage under the County sponsored plan attached hereto. The County shall provide the Union with the premium costs for individual and family coverage no later than 60 days or as soon as practical thereafter as they're received by the County prior to January 1 for the subsequent January 1 through December 31 period. (Commencing January 1, 1999)
Less than full time employees shall pay for coverage in accordance with the formula specified at the bottom of Exhibit 3.
24.A.4 The premium cost shall be defined as the cost established by Blue Cross and Blue Shield for the ensuing 12 month period plus the actual cost of the vision plan plus administrative costs based on the 1996 plan administrative cost for the 424 unit (384,500) plus the annual consumer price index for calendar years 1997,1998 and 1999 if applicable.
For the purposes of the administrative cost assessment and determination the parties have included in the 1996 administrative cost base the following:
a)	Consultant fees
b)	Employees assisting in the administration of the plan (salary plus fringe)
c)	Supplies and office expenditures
(It is hereby specifically understood that the increased cost for these and any other administrative cost shall be limited to the aggregate CPI increases as set forth above).
The Union shall have the right to audit the premium costs provided to it by the County. Should a dispute arise as to the amount of individual and family premium costs beginning in the calendar year 1999 such dispute . shall be submitted to binding arbitration under the Collective Bargaining Agreement The arbitrator shall be limited in his award to adjusting
-2-
premium rates prospectively with no retroactive implication to the County, The parties agree to use an expedited arbitration process in this regard.
(Public Employment Relations Board rules and procedures).
B) VISION COVERAGE
24.B.1 Commencing January, 1997, the Employer shall offer an Individual/Famiiy Vision Care Plan through Davis Optical to eligible members of the bargaining unit as defined and set forth in 24.E.1 herein. The provisions of the agreed to plan are attached hereto in Exhibit 1 and 2 with the specific plan level of benefit set forth in Exhibit 4 attached hereto. Employees not enrolled in the County’s basic health care plan may enroll in the Vision Care Plan. Any employee not enrolled in the County's basic health plan who enrolls in the Vision Care Plan shall have a 12 month waiting period before eligibility for benefits begins. For employees employed by the County as of January 1,1997, who are not enrolled in the County's health plan, the waiting period will begin on January 1, 1997, with coverage effective January 1,1998.
For new employees hired after January 1,1997, who elect to waive coverage under the County's basic health plan, the 12 month waiting period will begin on the date of hire.
Enrollment in the Vision Care Plan is not automatic. Employees must request and complete an Enrollment Form in order for coverage to commence. Coverage wilt not be made retroactive due to failure to complete an Enrollment Form.
For employees with stand alone vision coverage, the benefits are payable once every 36 months. For employees with basic health coverage, vision care benefits are payable once every 24 months.
For future use
24.C=Dental
24.D=Retirees
24.E.1 ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES (Health and Vision)- Any employee who works at least half the normal based scheduled hours (17.5 hours for 35 hour employees or 20 hours for 40 hour employees). Eligible dependents shall include spouse, dependent children under 19 or dependent children up to 25 if enrolled as a tail time student.
24.E.2 REOPENER- The parties shall reopen discussions on or about July 1, 1998 with regard to the health and vision coverage including plan cost, possible plan modificatiansJ^e.the healthcare format and other matters of mutual interest. Any changes to the plan must be by mutual agreement between the parties.
This agreement shall have no effect upon the provisions of 24.2 Dental Coverage (second paragraph), 24.C and 24.D. The parties shall discuss these provisions in further negotiating sessions.
-3 -
The provision of this agreement shall have no effect upon and shall net alter or modify any other terms of the parties Collective Bargaining Agreement unless specifically set forth herein.
This agreement shall be subject to the ratification of the Rensselaer County membership of Local 424 and the approval by the appropriate Rensselaer County officials.
AGREED TO:
Rensselaer County
MIS3996.KE3/mv
’APPROVEDX BUDGET AND RESEARCH
-4-
EXHIBI i # 1 RENSSELAER COUNTY - EMPIRE BC/BS PPO PLAN
BENEFIT DESIGN	SPECIFICS	IN NETWORK	OUT-OF NETWORK
Deductible Expense Per Calendar Year	Per Person Per Family	None None	$200.00 $600.00
Out of Pocket Maximum		N/A	$1,260.00 Individual $2,500.00 family
Physician	Office Visits	$ 10.00 co-payment	80% Coverage after deductible
	Consultation, Diagnosis Specialist Treatment	$10.00 co-payment	80% Coverage after deductible
	Pediatric Care & Well Child Care inclusive of inoculations and vaccinations	100% Coverage up to age 19	80% Coverage after deductible up to age 19
	Routine Physicals	$10.00 co-payment	Not covered '
Hospital	In-patient Care '	’•’>■100% Cove rage	*7]* ■*” 100%Coverage
	Anesthesia	100%Coveraga	0 ।	100%Coverage
	Intensive Care Unit & Other Special Units	100% Coverage	100%Coverage
	In-Patient Physical Therapy, Physical Medicine, or Rehab	100% Coverage up to 30 days per Calendar Year	100% Coverage up to 30 days per Calendar Year
	Out-patient Chemo and Radiation Therapy	100% Coverage	100% Coverage
Out-Patient Laboratory/X-RayTesting/Diagno stic Testing		100% Coverage Hospital and Non-Hospital Service	100% Coverage- in hospital 80% for Non-hospilal services after deductible
-5-
Supplies	Durable medical equipment when pre-authorized by Plan, includes Items such as injection aids. Insulin pumps, insulin infusion devices, data management systems, blood glucose monitors and blood glucose monitors for the legally blind.	100% Coverage	100% Coverage
Home Health Care		*100% Coverage up to 200 visits per Calendar Year	*80% Coverage up to 200 visits per Calendar Year
Extended Care Facility		* 100% Coverage up to 365 days per Calendar Year	*100% Coverage up to 365 days per Calendar Year
Hospice Care		*100% Coverage up to 210 days per Lifetime	* 100% Coverage after deductible up to 210 days per Lifetime
Voluntary Second Surgical Opinion		100% Coverage	100% Coverage
Ambulance		100% Coverage	100% Coverage
Prescription drugs		Mandatory Generic $5.00 -co-pay for Generic $10.00 -co-pay Brand (Oral Contraceptives only covered through the mail order program)	No Coverage
Chiropractic		30 visits per Calendar Year. $40.00 Maximum Payment per visit.	30 visits per Calendar Ye.ii, $40.00 Maximum Payment per visit.
Vision		Coverage pursuant through attached schedule.	Non-participating Providers Allowance available llnouijh attached schedule.
-6-
Annual Lifetime Maximum		Unlimited	$ 1,000,000.00
Pre-Admission Testing		100% Coverage	100% Coverage
Emergency Services	Emergency Room Care	$35.00 Co-Payment (waived if admitted within 24 hours)	$35.00 CoPayment (waived il admitted within 24 hours)
Mental Health Services	In-patient care in a general hospital.	*100% Coverage	*100% Coverage
	Limit of in-patient mental health days per Calendar Year	*60 days	*60 days
	Out patient mental health visits.	$10.00 Co-Payment for first 20 visits. $25.00 Co-Pay for subsequent visits.	60% Coverage with a maximum benefit payment of $50.00 per visit up to 2,500.00 annually.
Alcohol & Drug Abuse	In Patient Rehab	*100% Coverage for 30 days per Calendar Year	80% coverage for 30 days per two (2) Calendar Years.
	Out Patient Care	100% Coverage for 60 visits per Calendar Year	80% Coverage for 60 visits per Calendar Year.
Women's Care	Maternity O.P. Visits	100% Coverage	80% Coverage after Deductible
	Maternity LP. Visits	100% Coverage	100% Coverage after Deductible.
	Mammograms	100% Coverage	100% Coverage after Deductible.
	Pap Smears	$10.00 Co-Payment	100% Coverage after Deductible.
* Please Note: Precertification is required on all services marked with an (*).			
MtS39B2a.KEB/bl
no fl ficfuhcM-i rS r<,<^LL«_z<cl -Toz taon-—fj-| , It (yjpt_rCuf pr< <aC4iA£ijU_lu_d	,
-7-
EXHIBI > # 2
RENSSELAER COUNTY - EMPIRE BC/BS PPO PLAN (Plan provisions continued)
1.	Out of network benefits as set forth herein shall at all times be paid at the 90th percentile of reasonable and customary charges for the area in which such charges are incurred.
2.	Blue Cross Blue Shield physicians In Mass, and Vermont shall be considered es in-network providers for purposes of benefit and payment thereof.
MIS3902* KffUmv
-8-
kxmuil a » i997 / 1996 HEALTH INSURANCE PROPORTION ■ BI-WEEKLY PAYROLL 1997 « (PPI RATES
FRINGE		BABE HOURS	INDIVIDUAL, a	■ : FAMILY
70		70	$14.27	$37.82
70		60	$15.09	$39.96
70		66	$15.90	$42.14
70		87	$16.72	$44.30
70		66	$17.63	$46.46
70		65	$16.35	$48.83
70		64	$19.16	$50.79
70		83	$19.98	$52.95
70		62	$20.79	$55.11
70		61	$21.61	$57.27
70		60	$22.42	$59.43
70		50	$23.24	$61.59
70		56	$24.05	$83.75
70		57	$24.87	$65.92
70		56	$25.89	$68.08
70		55	$26.50	$70.24
70		54	$27.32	$72.40
70		53	$28.13	$74.56
70		52	$28.95	$76.72
70		51	$29.76	$78.68
70		50	$30.58	$81.04
70		49	$31.39	$83.20
70		40	$32.21	$85.37
70		47	$33.02	$87.53
70		45	$33.84	$89.89
70		45	$34.66	$91.85
70		44	$35.47	$94.01
70		43	$36.29	$96.17
70		42	$37.10	$98.33
70		41	$37.92	$100.49
70		40	$38.73	$102.86
70		30	$39.55	$104.62
70		38	$40.38	$106.98
70		37	$41.18	$109.14
70		36	$41.09	$111.30
		70	35	$42.81	$113.46
For oilier liouri use: (Premkim Cost x 12y26) x (1 - ,8x(hours/lull lime hours)
-8-
i »»7 RATES
FRINGS	BASE HOURS .	INDIVIDUAL	■■■■: FAMILY
80	K	$14,2?	$37.82
80	78	114.98	$39.71
80	78	$15.70	$41.60
80	77	$18,41	$4349
80	78	$17.12	$45.38
80	78	$17.84	$47.28
80	74	$16.56	$49.17
80	73	$10.26	$51.06
80	12	$19.98	$52.95
80	71	$20.60	$54.84
80	70	$21.40	$66 73
80	80	$22.12	$58.62
80	88	$22.63	$80.51
80	67	$23.55	$62.40
80	66	$24.26	$64.20
80	85	$24.07	$6619
80	64	$26 69	$86 08
80	83	$26.40	$6907
80	62	$27.11	$71.88
80	61	$27.83	$73.75
80	60	$28 54	$7564
80	50	$29.26	$77.63
80	58	$29.07	$7042
80	57	$30.68	$61.31
80	58	$31.39	$83.20
80	55	$32.11	$85.10
80	54	$32 82	$58.99
80	63	$33.63	$88.88
80	62	$34 25	$90.77
80	51	$34.96	$92 88
80	50	$3587	$94 65
80	40	$36.39	$96.44
80	45	$37.10	$90.33
60	47	$37 82	$10022
80	48	$38 63	$102.11
80	_	45	$30.2	6104.01
80	44	$3686	$105.90
80	43	$406?	$107.79
80	42	$41.30	$109 08
80	41	$42.10	$11167
80	40	$42.81	$113 46
For other bowi ti«e; (Premhen Coil x 12)/26| x (1 - 8x(how*/hi« time hair«)
10-
EXHIBIT # 4 RENSSELAER COUNTY VISION CARE PLAN
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
Davis Vision is pleased to offer vision care services through our preferred panel member doctors.
Members, spouses and eligible dependents will be entitled to receive one comprehensive eye examination during a two year contract period. These standards are consistent with those established by State Departments of Health including, preventive eyecare with health screening, testing for glaucoma and cataracts, refractive care and prescribing of corrective eyewear. In addition, eyewear will be dispensed according to the following protocol:
-	Fitting measurements will be taken, including frame size and seg heights.
-	When dispensed, the eyeglasses will be property adjusted to the member.
-	Ail necessary follow-up adjustments will be provided at no charge.
MATERIALS
Members, spouses and eligible dependents will also be entitled to receive one complete pair of eyeglasses (or contact lenses in lieu of eyeglasses) during the contract period.
This comprehensive vision care program will be available to the members and dependents of Rensselaer County at the attached Fee-for-Service schedule.
-11 -
DESIGNER VISION PLAN
The Designer benefit includes, without cost to the member plus dependents the following:
1.	Choice of glass or plastic lenses In single vision, bifocal or trifocal.
2.	Selection from a highly stylized, uniform frame selection of approximately 250 frames (Designer Collection). This selection will consist of frames including many designers such as Adolfo, Stetson, Halston, Gloria Vanderbilt, Liz Claiborne, Crayola, Camp Beverly Hills, Sophia Loren, etc.
3.	All materials verified as first quality.
4.	All ranges of prescriptions, including cataract lenses (no Overdlopter charge).
5.	Any size lens (no oversized charge).
6.	Fashion and gradient tinting of plastic lenses.
7.	Class-Grey #3 prescription sunglasses.
8.	Soft, standard daily wear contact lenses ($25.00 co-payment applies). Disposable/Planned Replacement lenses are also available for a $45.00 copayment (Includes Initial supply - 2 multi-packs).
9.	A one (1) year warranty on all plan eyeglasses.
10.	Polycarbonate lenses for dependent children.
-12-
The following additional enhancements may be selected by the beneficiary at significantly reduced pre-negotiated rates at the time of service as follows:
1.	Premier Frames	$25.00
- 2.	Photochromatic lenses:	
	Single Vision	$15.00
	Multifocal	$25.00
3.	Blended Invisible Bifocals	$10.00
4.	Progressive Additional Lenses	$80.00
5.	Ultra Violet Coating	$10.00
6.	Reflection Free	$33.00
7.	Supershield:	
	Single Vision	$15.00
	Multifocal	$25.00
8.	Polaroid	$60.00
9.	Polycarbonate	$30.00
10.	High Index	$55.00
11.	Transitions Lenses	
	Single Vision	$50.00
	Multifocal	$60.00
-13-
INDEMNITY REIMBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Examination	$20.00
Single Vision Lenses	$20.00
Bifocal Lenses	$30.00
Trifocal	$40.00
Frame	$20.00
Contacts	$75.00
NON-PLAN ALLOWANCES
Frame	$25.00
Contacts	$55.00
Ml54007.KEB/nw
-14-
EXHIBIT 3 HEALTH BENEFITS FEE SCHEDULE FOR LESS-THAN-FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
, .................
Page 64
1/02/81 10:04 FAX 5184636046	ACKERMAN WACHS & KINTON
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
t£002
Between
County of Rensselaer (HEREAFTER *’ COUNTY")
AND THE
United Public Service Employees Union
(HEREINAFTER "UNION")
Memorandum of Agreement made and entered into this 27* day of February 2001 by and between the negotiating committees for the County of Rensselaer and the United Public Service Employees Union. 4
WHEREAS, the parties have engaged in negotiations in good faith in an effort to arrive at a Successor Agreement to a contract that expired on December 31“ 2000, and;
WHEREAS, the parties have arrived at a Tentative Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the parties hereby stipulate and agree as follows:
1.	The provisions of this Memorandum are subject to ratification by the respective parties to the contract;	.
2.	The parties agree to recommend this Memorandum for ratification;
3.	All proposals not covered herein, made by either party during the course of negotiations, shall be demed withdrawn;
4.	All provisions of the prior Agreement shall be carried forward except as hereafter modified;
5.	Tenn of Agreement: January 1,2001 through December 31,2002;
6.	Wages: Section 10
10.	1 Modify to provide for all unit members:
Effective January 1,2001 - 3.5% increase
Effective January 1,2002 - 3.75% increase	•
Addendum III - Modify by above amounts.
7.	Longevity: Section 10	.
10.3 Effective January 1,2002 each longevity step shall be increased by $50.00. It is agreed that such longevity amounts shall have a cumulative increasing effect within the schedule and employees shall receive the cumulative increases for their respective years of service.
04/02/01 10:05 FAX 5184636046	ACKERHAN WACHS A FINTON	.	@003
(f.e, Upon completion of twenty (20) years of employment on or after January 1, 2002, $200.00 longevity increase, thirty (30) years, $300.00 etc. Computed asfollows $50.00 + 550.00 +$50.00 + $50.00 + $50,00 + $50.00 + $50.00 + $50.00.)	.
8.	Section 4 - Collective Bargaining Unit	.
4.1	Delete D. Re-letter remainder (to reflect inclusion of less than half time employees in the unit).
9.	Less Than Half-Time Part-Time Employees
242 and 24.3 (Vision) Add eligibility for vision coverage effective January 1,2002 under the same terms as County Unit employees.
*24.5 Add eligibility for dental coverage effective January 1, 2002, wider same terms offered to 50% unit members.
Section 19 - Bereavement - Add eligibility pro-rata effective upon ratification.
Jury Duty - Add eligibility effective upon ratification.
10.	Suspension of 10.6.1 Advancement to Grade Rate
Effective January 1,2002 employees being paid less than grade rate shall have their rate of pay increased to the grade rate for their respective job classification. Employees hired on or after January 1,2002 shall, upon hire, be paid at the grade pay rate for their respective job classification.
The suspension of the new hire advancement to grade rate provision shall remain in effect for the life of this Agreement and shall survive such Agreement provided however, that should the County wish to reinstate the "advancement to grade rale provision" it shall provide no less than ninety (90) days written notice to the Union. The Union shall have the right to request to meet with the County to discuss the County’s decision. Such decision shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures contained in this Agreement
If implemented, it shall affect only those employees hired subsequent to the'date of implementation.	•	’
Additionally, if implemented the parties agree to develop an "advancement to grade schedule" that converts the 10% and 5% to actual salaries.
11.	Section 24.A.1.a
Effective June 1,2001 suspend 120 day waiting period for health, dental and vision coverage. Modify to provide for thirty (30) day waiting period for all employees. Employees hired prior to June 1, 2001 shall be made eligible for such benefits provided they have been employed for thirty (30) days; coverage shall be effective on the first (1“) day of the month following an employees 30* day of employment. No coverage shall be instituted prior to June 1,2001.
. 04/02/01 10:05 FAX 5184636046	ACKERMAN WACHS & FINTON	@004
The suspension of the 120 day waiting period shall be in accordance with the reinstatement provisions set forth above under the advancement to grade rate provision. Specifically, the parties agree that should the County wish to reinstate the 120 day waiting period for health, dental and vision coverage, it shall provide no less than ninety (90) days written notice to the Union. The Union shall have the right to request to meet with the County to discuss the County's decision, if implemented by the County, this pro vision shall affect only those employees hired subsequent to the date of implementation. The County’s decision shall not be subj ect to the grievance and arbitration procedures contained in this Agreement
12.	Dental:
Effective June 1,2001, the Rensselaer County Dental Schedule (Appendix "A") shall be increased by 20%.
Effective October 1,2002, the Rensselaer County Dental Schedule (Appendix “A") shall be increased by 10%,
Benefits payable shall be rounded to the nearest dollar.
Upon ratification the parties agree to meet together with the County’s consultant to evaluate the dental schedule and determine the best use of the above schedule increases to address the issue of increasing the number of participating dentists.
13.	Health Benefits: County PPO/Indemnity Plan Exhibits 1 + 2
Modify In-Network Benefit Plan design as follows:
Physician office visits - Current $10.00 co-payment -increase to $15.00 effective June 1,2001.
Prescription Drugs - Increase current brand (non-generic) co-pay from $ 10.00 to $20.00 effective June 1,2001.
No other Plan changes shall be made.
14.	Upon ratification employees thereafter employed in providing direct patient care in the Van
Rensselaer Manor and those providing Home Healthcare Services shall be required to submit to a background check and shall be finger printed. Such employees employed prior to ratification shall not be required to submit to such background checks, nor shall they be finger printed.
15.	Special Labor/Management Committee
Within sixty (60) days of ratification of this Agreement an equal number of representatives of the Union and County shall meet to discuss the following:
1.	Modification of the Grievance Procedure.
2.	In recognition of recruitment and retention issues facing the County the parties agree to meet to discuss implementation of salary adjustments pursuant to the Salary Study.
. 01/03/M. 10:06 FAI 5184636046
ACKERMAN WACHS & FINTON
@006
ANNUAL SALARIES 2001-2002
															
															
PAY	1/1/01				1/1/01				1/1/01				1/1/02		
GRADE	3.50%	Hourly	Hourly		3.50%	Hourly	Hourly		3.50%	Hourly	Hourly		3.75%	Hourly	Hourly
	grade	35	40		start-95%	35	40		start-90%	35	40		grade	35	40
1	$20,180	$11.045430	$9.664751		$19,171	$10.493158	$9.181513		$18,162	$9.940887	$8.698276		$20,937	$11.459770	$10.027299
2	$20,830	$11.401204	$9.976054		$19,789	$10.831418	$9.477490		$18,747	$10.261084	$8.978448		$21,611	$11.828681	$10.350096
3	$21,511	$11.773946	$10.302203		$20,435	$11.185003	$9.786877		$19,360	$10.596606	$9.272031		$22,318	$12.215654	$10.688697
4	$22,260	$12.183908	$10.660920		$21,147	$11.574713	$10.127874		$20,034	$10.965517	$9.594828		$23,095	$12.640941	$11.060824
5	$22,993	$12.585112	$11.011973		$21,843	$11.955665	$10.461207		$20,694	$11.326765	$9.910920		$23,855	$13.056924	$11.424808
6	$23,727	$12.986864	$11.363506		$22,541	$12.337712	$10.795498		$21,354	$11.688013	$10.227011		$24,617	$13.474001	$11,789751
7	$24,461	$13.388615	$11.715038		$23,238	$12.719212	$11.129310		$22,015	$12.049808	$10.543582		$25,378	$13.890531	$12.154215
8	$25,324	$13.860974	$12.128352		$24,058	$13.168035	$11.522031		$22,792	$12.475096	$10.915709		$26,274	$14.380952	$12.583333
9	' $26,280	$14.384236	$12.586207		$24,966	$13.665025	$11.956897		$23,652	$12.945813	$11.327586		$27,266	$14.923919	$13.058429
10	$27,395	$14.994527	$13.120211		$26,025	$14.244663	$12.464080		$24,656	$13.495348	$11.808429		$28,422	$15.556650	$13.612069
11	$28,375	$15.530925	$13.589559		$26,956	$14.754242	$12.909962		$25,538	$13.978106	$12.230843		$29,439	$16.113300	$14.099138
12	$29,356	$16.067871	$14.059387		$27,888	$15.264368	$13.356322		$26,420	$14.460865	$12.653257		$30,457	$16.670498	$14.586686
13	$30,755	$16.833607	$14.729406		$29,217	$15.991790	$13.992816		$27,680	$15.150520	$13.256705		$34,908	$17.464696	$15.281609
14	$32,204	$17.626710	$15.423372		$30,594	$16.745484	$14.652299		$28,984	$15.864258	$13.881226		$33,412	$18.287904	$16.001916
15	$34,028	$18.625068	$16.296935		$32,327	$17.694034	$15.482280		$30,625	$16.762452	$14.667146		$35,304	$19.323481	$16.908046
16	$35,494	$19.427477	$16.999042		$33,719	$18.455939	$16.148946		$31,945	$17.484948	$15.299330		$36,825	$20.155993	$17.636494
17	$36,968	$20.234264	$17.704981		$35,120	$19.222770	$16.819923		$33,271	$18.210728	$15.934387		$38,354	$20.992885	$18.368774
18	$38,987	$21.339354	$18.671935		$37,038	$20.272578	$17.738506		$35,088	$19.205255	$16.804598		$40,449	$22.139573	$19.372126
19	$40,994	$22.437876	$19.633142		$38,944	$21.315818	$18.651341		$36,895	$20.194308	$17.670019		$42,531	$23.279146	$20.369253
20	$42,950	$23.508484	$20.569923		$40,803	$22.333333	$19.541667		$38,655	$21.157635	$18.512931		$44,561	$24.390257	$21.341475
21	$44,911	$24.581828	$21.509100		$42,665	$23.352490	$20.433429		$40,420	$22.123700	$19.358238		$46,595	$25.503558	$22.315613
22	$46,866	$25.651888	$22.445402		$44,523	$24.369458	$21.323276		$42,179	$23.086481	$20.200670		$48,623	$26.613574	$23.286877
23	$48,824	$26.723591	$23.383142		$46,383	$25.387521	$22.214080		$43,942	$24.051450	$21.045019		$50,655	$27.725780	$24.260057
24	$50,780	$27.794198	$24.319923		$48,241	$26.404488	$23.103927		$45,702	$25.014778	$21.887931		$52,684	$28.836344	$25.231801
25	$52,739	$28.866448	$25.258142		$50,102	$27.423098	$23,995211		$47,465	$25.979748	$22.732280		$54,717	$29.949097	$26.205460
HOURLY TITLES 2001-2002
							
							
	1/1/01		1/1/01		1/1/01		1/1/02
HOURLY	3.50%		3.50%		3.50%		3.75%
TITLES	. grade		start-95%		start-90%		grade
AGING SERVICE AIDE	.	10.323090		9.806936		9290781		10.710206
AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC	.	14.041845		13.339753		12.637661		14.568414
AUTOMOTIVE MECHANIC HELPER	12.842280		12.200166		11.558052		13.323866
BARBER	18.959130		18.011174		17.063217		19.670097
BOILER ATTENDANT	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
CLEANER	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
DISPATCHER	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
FOOD SERVICE HELPER	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
HIGHWAY DISPATCHER	14.058405		13.355485		12.652565		14.585595
HIGHWAY SUPERVISOR II	16.831170		15.989612		15.148053		17.462339
LABORER	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
LABORER (HIGHWAY)	10.346895		9.829550		9.312206		10.734904
LAUNDRY WORKER	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES AIDE	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
MEOH	14.041845		13.339753		12.637661		14.568414
MEOL	13.039965		12.387967		11.735969		13.528964
NURSE AIDE	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
PAINTER	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
PARKING LOT ATTENDANT	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
PHYSICAL THERAPIST AIDE	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
SEAMSTRESS	10.177155		9.668297		9.159440		10.558798
SENIOR AUTO MECHANIC	16.831170		15.989612		15.148053		17.462339
WATCHMAN	11.423295		10.852130		10280966		11.851669
WORKING SUPERVISOR(HIGHWAY)	14286105		13.571800		12.857495		14.821834
VAN RENSSELAER MANOR NURSING TITLES
											
											
VAN RENSSELAER MANOR	1/1/01			1/1/01			. 1/1/01			1/1/02	
NURSING TITLES	3.50%	Hourly		3.50%	Hourly		3.50%	Hourly		3.75%	Hourly
	grade	Rate		start-95%	Rate		start-90%	Rate		grade	Rate
ASS'T. DIRECTOR OF NURSING	$44,061	$21.102011		$41,858	$20.046935		$39,655	$18.991858		$45,713	$21.893199
ASST. SUPERVISOR OF NURSING	$42,652	$20.427203		$40,519	$19.405651		$38,387	$18.384579		$44,251	$21.193008
QUALITY ASSURANCE NURSE	$41,222	$19.742337		$39,161	$18.755268		$37,100	$17.768199	)	$42,768	$20.482759
HEAD NURSE	$39,637	$18.983238		$37,655	$18.034004		$35,673	$17.084770		$41,123	$19.694923
RN	$37,520	$17.969349		$35,644	$17.070881		$33,768	$16.172414		$38,927	$18.643199
LPN	$29,559	$14.156609		$28,081	$13.448755		$26,603	$12.740900		$30,667	$14.687261
29/12/93 13:37 FAS
//
X-
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF RENSSELAER COUNTY (Hereinafter “County**)
AND
UNITED PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION LOCAL 424 (Hereinafter “Union71)
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS, the pirties agree, subject to respective ratification by UPSEU membership and the Rensselaer County Legislature, to the following terms for a successor collective bat gaining agreement for the period January 1,2003 through December 31,2005, now, dieorforc it is AGREED ted STIPULATED as follows:
The parties agree es this Memorandum of Agreement is integrated into the existing (c llective Bargaining, Agreement they will work together to identify existing provisions A-hitl i-equire clarification and by mutual agreement effect appi update changes.
The provisions of tais Agreement are subject to ratification by the County’s Legislator: an d the membership of the Union employed by the County. The respective negotiatir g co □nrittees agree to neo immend the Agreement for ratification.
1.	TERM OF AGREEMENT:
January 1. 2003 through December 31,2005.
2*	WAGES - Section X:
Wages of al I unit employees shall be increased a.3 follows:
January 1,2003	-	1.5%
July 1,2003 -	1.5%
January 1,2004 -	325%
Jantary 1,2005	-	3.5%
Retroactive pay shall be paid to employees by separate check no later than one rundred twenty(120) days following County ratification of this agreement The Cowty shall make an effort to jay retroactive monies prior to this date. Pay increases shall be bxoqx rated in the pay periods commencing December 5th' and December 6th, 2003.
3.	DENTAL 1 'LAN - Section 24:
The Dental Fee Schedule shall be increased by the following:
Effective:	January 1,2004 -	10T«
January 1,2005 -	10%
-1-
09/12/03 13:30 FAI
J
(2,
The parties igiee to meet within forty-five (45) days of ratification to discus; am. igrce f o allocation o; said amounts to the Fee Schedule.
4.	SEWER DISTRICT AND DETENTION EMPLOYEES STIPEND:
(Rotating shifts/weekend assignments)
10.	4 Increase to $850.00 effective January 1, 2004 and to $900.00 e jibctivc January 1.2005.
10.	4A Sew n District Stipend
Inert.ese to $450.00 effective January 1,2005.	■
5.	DlFFERE^ nAt NURSING STAFF:
10.5.	1 Effective upon ratification of the Agreement, differentials shall insreato to the following:
LPK- ..........................$2,080.00
RM- ...........................$2,080.00
Asst Supervisor of Nursing -... $2,080.00
Effective January 1,2004 and for the tenn of the agreement thereafter, thn above amounts shall be increased to $2,296.00.
In ths event that the State of New York -withdraws funding for reciuiu mi aad reten tion subsequent to the expiration of this agreement, the County n-ay ri psst to meet rvitii representatives of the union to discuss adjusting the differentia. inctr.t then in edect. In no event shall the aforementioned take place unless at krest sixty • (60) days notice is provided and the union has been consulted with :uid □: mdd?d documentation supporting the States reduction of recruitment and retention monies.
The amount of the differential may be reduced by the County to no less thin $1,650.00.
Nothing iierein shall prohibit either party from advancing differential prop c als and or modification of this provision in successor negotiations.
10.5.	2: Other Employees (Evening/Nights)
Effective upon ratification the 3:00 pan. 11:00 pan. and 11:00 par. -': 10 a.ni. different] al shall increase to 600 per hour. Effective January 1,2Q04 and for t ie tenn of the agreement thereafter, the differential shall increase to 750 per hour. Tic above differentials shall be paid to day shift employees working into the above shifts iires]reclive of the number of hours worked on said shift upon lEttificaiic □ by foe parties.
In th: event ihat the State of New York, withdraws funding for rec uitiluiit and retention subsequent to the expiration of titis agreement, the County m ay nx jest to meet with representatives of the union to discuss adjusting the differentia .urouoc then it effect. In no event shall the aforementioned take place unless at It ast sixty (60) lays notice is provided and the union has been consulted with ud » ovided
-2-
,09/127|03 13:38 FAI
®>003
doct Hesitation supporting the States reduction of recruitment and retention moires.
'Hie amount of the differential may be reduced by the County to no less tl ii n 650, Notiiing herein shall prohibit either party from advancing differential oiopc sals end or rr odi lication of this provision in successor negotiations.
6.	CNA-WEEKEND:
Effective uf on ratification the differential shall increase to 65jd per hour.
Effective January 1, 2004 and for the tain of the agreement thereafter, the aiw i nt shall increase to 85 jf per hour.
In the event that the State of New York withdraws funding for recruitment and retention subsequent to the expiration of this agreement, the County may request to mret ivith representafiTes of the union to discuss adjusting the differential amount then in effect. In no event shall the aforementioned take place unless at least sixty (60) days notice is provided and the unicri has been consulted with and provided documentation supporting th: States reduction of recinitmenf and retention monies.
The amount of the differential may be reduced by the County to no less than 750.
Nothing herein shall prohibit either party from advancing differential proposals and or modification of this provision in successor negotiations.
7.	WEEKEND - (Kher Employees:
Effective up an ratification the differential shall irtcrease to 600 per hour. Effective January 1, 2004, the diff erential shall increase to 700 per hour.
In the event that the State of New York withdraws funding for recruitment and mention subsequent die expiration of this agreement, the County may request u> meet with representatives of the union to discuss adjusting the differential amount then ir. effect In no event shall tos aforementioned take place unless at least sixty (60) days notice is o ovided and the union has been consulted with and provided documentation supporting the States reduction of recruitment and retention monies.
The amount of tire differential may be reduced by the County to no less than 650.
Nothing her tin slrall prohibit either party from advancing differential proposals mid or modification of this provision in successor negotiations.
8.	Section 263:
Add: Days shall mean Monday through Friday and exclude Saturday, Sunday nd legal holidays.
9.	Section 24:
Effective upoiirscfication by the parties the co-payments required for physician office visits shall increase to $20.00 per visit.
-3-
09/12/03 13:38 FAX
0(104
Effective u] KHiratification by the parties the co-pajonent required for prescript one rigs shall increase to lie following:
Geucric -.................$10.(X>
Nor -Generic .............$25.00
10.	LTDPLAN:
Effective u »n ratification, and each year thereafter, for the tenn of this A»reea\ent the-County upwj written request from the Union, shall meet and confer with the Union concerning die County offering a County paid Long Tenn Disability Plan. The Ufron shall attempt to make such request prior to the formation of the County Budget for taesul sequent year. The formal decision of whether the Plan shall be provided shall rest with th>; County. The Union itliall provide the County with quotes sought for the Plan, and the Covutty shall provide the data necessary for the Union to seek quotes for a Disability Plan. Die i axssary data shall ccr.sist of name, date ofhire, job title and annual salary. Notwithstanding nythfog to the contrtry, the Union shall have aright to request to meet and confer during 200:1 for the 2006 budget. This provision shall sunset and have no other force or effect as of December 31, 2005.
11.	25 YEAR LAW ENFORCEMENT RETIREMENT PLAN-
INVEST ATOR/PROBATION OFFICERS:
Effective upon ratification and each year thereafter, for the tenn of this Agreement, the County, tqp-yti written request from the Union, shall meet and confer with'ttif Union, concerning ffe County offering the 25 year Law Enforcement Pension Plan thmigl . he New York State Retirement Plan. The decision of whether foe Plan is adopted shall rest vilh the ■ County. Ti c: Union shall provide the County with the cost of offering the Plan stud the
County will [. rovide the Union with the information necessary to seek the informal :n from the Retirement System. This provision shall sunset and have no other force or ef fret as of December .31,2005.'	'	'
IX MILEAGE 292L
Effective up an ratification all submissions for reimbursement of mileage must be su omitted by no later titan March 1 following the preceding December 31* Failure to sul niit for reimburses sit by March 1 shall result in no payment, With regard to tire prndit^ health Department PERB matter (23073) the parties agree that the PERB case 22 073 ball. be withdrawn rnd the issue of mileage reimbursement shall be deferred to arbitrator. The parties agree to meet prior to any arbitration to ciscuss resolution of pending nud ter as it relates to th* ■■ Health Department	'
13.	SECTIONS.!);
Modify to reflect meeting on first and third Thursday of each month or as ofoerws ? set by the Commit ee.
14.	SECITONP/U:
Add: Com ity employees assigned vehicles must notify their sirpervisornpoa .ion1 i rtionef a mo ving violation or alcohol or drug driving related offense occnrrfrg subsequent to ratification. Failure to timely notify the County may result in the loss of the empl oyees right to a County vehicle in the discretion of the County. ■ Sh mid aa empl tjyee who is assigned a County vehicle be convicted of aDWL DWAI or leaving
-4-
09/12/03 13:39 FAI
Si) )5
the $ vine of an automotive accident he/she may sufferthe loss of the ass gne 1I'etrele £it the discretion of the County,
15.	AM'ERSCA NS WITH DISABILITIES ACT(MADA”):
Add: r[he County and Union agree to abide by the provisions of the America *s with Discbility Act,
16.	VISION COVERAGE: 24.2A-la$t paragraph
Effective upon ratification, employees not enrolled in health coverage shall l»e eligible for vision benefits every twenty-four (24) months.
17.	PART-TIME EMPLOYEES:
Add: Upon completion of four (4) continuous years of employment a less chan half-time .	(%) employee shall be entitled to County paid dental and vision covejagc under the
sam e terras as full-time employees.
18.	223.2 - LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
First paragraph, modify to read:
Upon termination of pregnancy and the period of disability related thereto, the employer may grant a leave of absence without pay for a reasonable period of time thereafter. A reasonable period of time shall be defined as up to sue (6) months.
In t he case of continuing disability beyond the period herein an additional leave of absence shall be granted solely rd the discretion of the Counfy.
19.	213 QUARRYING EMPLOYEES:	.
Add to first jjaragraph first and second Unes immediately after the word ’‘perraaberf ’ add “or provisional/’.
20.	SECTTOh 25:
Modify to 75(1).
21.	30.5 FOOTWAKE ALLOWANCE:
Effective January 1, 2004, the allowance shall increase to $75.00 and effective January 1,2 005 to $100.00,
22.	STAGE 2 OE GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
Effective rpon ratification Stage 2 shall be replaced by an informal dis mtefricvar.ee resolution meeting consisting of representatives from the Union and County. Meetings wilt be held in the same manner as Stage 3 meetings.. The Union shall be required to copy th;: Human Resource Department and the County attorney on all conespondmice related to grievances and disputes under tire contract.
The partie s agree to meet within forty-five (45) days of ratification to establi3h.it e specific;; of the met tings, AH matters in dispute by the Union including matters which may he file' I with outsit/agencies shall be presentedat tire Stage? meetingfor discussion and Tsdutian. Witnesses ^yaii other documentation may be presented by either party to support i-s position.
-5-
08/12/03 13:39 FAI

Matters not resolved at Stage 2 shall be presented at Stage 3, PERB or other Agency. Nothing herein shad prevent the Union from filing matters immediately io PSRB >.# other Agency in addition to Stage 2 if delaying said filing would jeopardize due tim« limbs of the respective Ajjency. 26.4.5.2 first paragraph changed stage 3 to stage 2.
23.	HEALTHCARE (DIRECT CARE GIVERS) PAY:
No later thin forty-five (45) days following ratification the parties shall meet and confer regarding recruitment and retention monies that may be available from the State c-f New York for Ni irsfog Home staff. The actual distribution of funds shall be at the dis<n ation of the County.
24,	ACCUMULATION OF SICK LEAVE:
Effective upon ratification the current maximum accumulation shall be increase;; to 225 days.
25.	BEREAVEMENT- Section 19:
Add step frraily members; step child (4 days), step parent (4 days), step parent-in-laws (3 days).
26.	LEAVE ACCRUAL BALANCE ON EACH PAYROLL STUB;
As soon as practical subsequent to ratification the County shall provide employees sick, personal ard vacation accruals on the employees regular pay check.
27.	SENIORITY - Section 13.9
The parties agree to reconcile 13.9 with Section 16 and 22.4.
28.	Section 75 For Competitive Labor Class and Non-Competitive Employees:
After 12 months to include:
1.	Notice of charge
2.	Bight (8) day response
3.	All other procedures of 75 apply
4.	Require to initiate choice of forum (arbitration or 75)
5.	Choice of arbitration waives 75 or 76.
6.	Nothing shall preclude discussions and resolution of disciplinary matters; prior to issuance of charges.
7.	Clwige maximum five (5) days or more suspension to three (3) days (arbitration right)
8.	Cxpxlitcd Arbitration.
Competitive same as labor and non-competitive (above) except after six (6) mnidhs and 15H6 per statute.
29.
13.1.2
Delete tin d, fourth and fifth sentence.
30.	The partie 5 agree to meet within thirty (3 0) days to integrate the provisions of this agreement
into a mom formal collective bargaining agreement.
-6-
'	- 09/12/93‘ 13:40 FAI

AGREED to Ah __/£_day	2003.
UNITED PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYEES COUNTY OF
UNION
Kathleen Jimino
Rensselaer County Executive
RENSSELAER
P
John Mumane f Chief Shop Steward
-1 *
Rensselaer County Legislature
. Clerk's Certification (G)
i
r:'i J. M '	■
I, Jenet N. Allard, Clerk of the Rensselaer County Legislature, do hereby CERTIFY that I have compared the foregoing copy with the original resolution^) enacted by the Rensselaer County Legislature at a legally convened meeting held on the 14th day of October 2003, and that the same is a true and complete copy thereof. The original resolution(s) is/are on file in my office located at 1600 Seventh Avenue, Troy, New York, and became effective on the 16th day of October 2003.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the Rensselaer County Legislature of Troy, New York, this 17th day of October 2003,
JoffetN. Allarcf
Clerk of the Legislature County of Rensselaer State of New York
RENSSELAER COUNTY LEGISLATURE
Introduced by Legislator^) Bauer, Stammel, Hammond, VariDeusen, Kelleher, Dedrick, Reid, Mirch, Breajton, Brownell, Herrington, McHugh, Salisbury, Stammel, Swartz, Walsh, Wright, O’Brien, Monahan_________________________________________________________
Sent To: Contracts & Agreements Committee	Date October 14, 2003 ■
Resolution No. G/465/03
RESOLUTION APPROVING MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF RENSSELAER AND UNITED PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYEES UNION
WHEREAS, This resolution is filed with the County Legislature by the County Executive; and
WHEREAS, The County of Rensselaer and the United Public Service Employees Union, have been engaged in negotiations to arrive at a successor agreement to the collective bargaining agreement between the parties which expired December 31, 2002; and
WHEREAS, The parties did reach a tentative agreement encompassed by a Memorandum thereof dated September 12, 2003, which Memorandum of Agreement is subject to ratification by the membership of the union local and approval by this legislature; and
WHEREAS, The membership of the union has since approved and ratified such Memorandum of Agreement reached on September 12, 2003, a copy of which Memorandum has been filed with the Clerk of the Legislature; and
WHEREAS, The County Executive has recommended approval of such Memorandum of Agreement and has requested the authority to execute on behalf of the County a collective bargaining agreement with the union for the period January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005, which incorporates by reference the terms and conditions of such Memorandum; now, therefore, be .it
RESOLVED, That the Rensselaer County Legislature hereby approves the Memorandum of Agreement between the County of Rensselaer and the United Public Service Employees Union and further authorizes the Rensselaer County Executive to execute on behalf of the County a collective bargaining agreement with such union for the period January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005 which incorporates by reference the terms-and conditions of such Memorandum of Agreement, subject to the approval as to form of the Rensselaer County Attorney; and, be it further
Resolution No. G/465/03
Page No._______2 of 2_________
RESOLVED, That the Rensselaer County Executive and Chairman of the Rensselaer County Legislature shall each have the discretion to extend all or any part of the economic benefits of such agreement to those non-union employees under their respective direction or control.
Resolution ADOPTED by the following vote:
Ayes:	18
Nays:	0
Abstain:	0
October 14, 2003
Clerk of the Legislature
Sent to County ExecutivelQV‘~i~ Received fAm County Executive /&Z7/0I
Cleric ofrme Legislature	■
Disapproved
Executive Action
Approved
Date
Veto Message Attached and Returned to Clerk
County^fexkcutive