PREAMBLE
In order to establish harmonious employment relations through a mutual process, to provide fair and equitable treatment to all employees, to promote the quality and continuance of public service, to achieve full recognition for the value of employees and the vital and necessary work they perform, to specify wages, hours, benefits, and working conditions, and to provide for the prompt and equitable resolution of disputes, the parties agree as follows:
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT has been made and entered into by and between the DEPARTMENT OF CENTRAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES, and all Departments, Boards and Commissions subject to the Personnel Code, and whose vouchers are subject to approval by the Department of Central Management Services, of the State of Illinois (hereinafter referred to as the "Employer") and the AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES COUNCIL 31, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as the "Union") on behalf of its affiliated locals and the employees in the collective bargaining units described below and in Article I.
The Union has been duly certified by the Office of Collective Bargaining, State of Illinois, pursuant to Section 9, subsection (7) of the Personnel Code, and the Rules and Regulations which have been adopted by the Director of Central Management Services and the Civil Service Commission to implement that Section; and the Union is the historical representative pursuant to the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, for the purposes of collective bargaining for the employees in: RC-6, a unit composed of correctional employees; RC-9, a unit composed of institutional employees; RC-10, a unit composed of Technical Advisors and Hearing Referees; RC-14, a unit composed of all clerical positions, and any paraprofessional positions involving administrative, data treating, technical, or applied science work; RC-28, a unit composed of positions involving direct services to clients and the public; RC-42, a unit composed of maintenance employees; RC-62, a Statewide Technical Unit; and RC-63, a Statewide Professional Unit.
These units exclude temporary, emergency, and provisional employees and those position titles and/or individual positions excluded by order of the Illinois State Labor Relations Board or by agreement of the parties under the standards for exclusion of the Rules and Regulations of that office referring to supervisory, confidential and managerial employees, which order or agreement shall be reduced to writing and may from time to time be amended.
DEFINITION OF TERMS
The following terms shall be interpreted as indicated below when used in this Agreement:
a)	"Agency Head" refers to the head of a department, agency, board or commission.
b)	"Employer" refers to the Director of the Department of Central Management Services, the Agency Head, the Facility Head, or the Intermediate Administrator or their representatives collectively or singly, as the context may require.
c)	Unless otherwise agreed "Intermediate Administrator" shall be defined as the individual with regional, divisional or facility-wide authority who is subordinate to the Agency Head and superior to first-level supervisors outside the bargaining unit, including, but not limited to, Local Office Administrators in Human Services, Public Aid, Regional Managers in Employment Security, Superintendents at institutional facilities, District Engineers in Transportation, Regional Land Managers in Natural Resources, Division of Land Management.
d) "Work Location" under RC-10, RC-14, RC-28, RC-62 and RC-63 shall be defined as all of the premises of an Agency in a County, except that each of the following shall be considered a work location, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties in supplemental negotiations.
1)A building or related group of buildings with more than twenty-five (25) employees in the bargaining unit;
2)A building or group of buildings which constitute a facility in the Departments of Human Services, Corrections, Children and Family Services, or Veterans' Affairs;
3)Branch offices of a central regional office in counties adjacent to such regional offices, and the regional office, which offices shall be grouped as a work location.
Provided that, for purposes of health and safety committees, where more than one Agency has offices within a building or related group of buildings, all such offices shall be considered together as a work location. The "Work Location" under RC-6 and RC-9
shall be defined as d) 2) above, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties in agency supplemental negotiations.
e)	For RC-6, RC-9, RC-10, RC-14, RC-28, RC-42, RC-62 and RC-63, "Employee" refers only to a bargaining unit employee in a classification covered by this contract whether in a certified or probationary status, except that a probationary employee, an employee during an original six (6) month probationary period, has no right to use the grievance procedure in the event of discharge or demotion.
f)	“Facility Head" refers to the Head of a particular facility or institution of the Department of Corrections, Human Services, Children and Family Services, Veterans' Affairs, whichever is applicable.
ARTICLE I
Recognition
Section 1.	Recognition
The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative in all matters establishing and pertaining to wages and salaries, hours, working conditions and other conditions of employment for employees in the units described in "Agreement" and composed of classifications attached in Schedule A, and such other classifications as may be added in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. The parties recognize that there are eight (8) bargaining units contained herein; each separately certified, and that the fact that they are all contained within this Agreement shall not imply that any provision or policy affecting or benefiting one unit applies to any other, unless otherwise so provided.
Section 2.	Abolition or Merger of Job Classification
The Employer may, establish new classifications, or abolish, or merge, or change existing classifications.
The Union shall be notified of the Employer's interest to establish new classifications, or abolish, or merge, or change existing classifications and discuss with it such intention at least twenty-one (21) days prior to making its recommendation to the Civil Service Commission.
If the Employer subsequently determines to establish new classifications, or abolish, or merge, or change existing classifications, it shall negotiate with the Union over the impact of such.
Such negotiations shall include good faith impact bargaining as required under the State Labor Relations Act.
In the event the parties are unable to reach agreement, the Union may appeal through the contractual grievance procedure (Art. V) including Arbitration. The issue before the Arbitrator shall be whether or not the employee's rights have been violated as provided in the Agreement, and if so what the remedy should be.
Nothing in this Section shall diminish any rights provided for in other Sections of this Agreement.
Section 3.	Integrity of the Bargaining Unit
A.	The Employer recognizes the integrity of the bargaining unit and will not take any action having the effect of eroding bargaining unit work.
Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Employer will continue to endeavor to assign bargaining unit work to bargaining unit employees. The hiring of temporary or emergency employees to supplement bargaining unit employees' work on a temporary basis or provisional employees appointed under Personnel Rule 302.150 shall not be considered erosion of the bargaining unit.
B.	Emergency, temporary and provisional appointments shall be made in accordance with Section 8(b)(8); 8(b)(9); and 8(b)(10) of the Personnel Code. The Union shall be notified in writing on a monthly basis of the name, agency, title and position allocation number of all emergency, temporary and provisional appointments made to bargaining unit positions.
C.	In the event that a back-to-back emergency, temporary, or provisional appointment, or a combination of appointments, is operationally necessary, upon timely request the Union will be provided with the rationale for such back-to-back appointment. The provision of rationale to the Union will be made in a timely fashion.
D.	Unless Agency operational needs so require, no emergency, temporary, provisional or contractual shall be assigned to work a schedule of hours or days off if there is an employee in the same position classification and work location who desires such a schedule of hours and days off.
Section 4.	Union Exclusivity
The Employer shall not meet, discuss, confer, subsidize or negotiate with any other employee organization or its representatives on matters pertaining to hours, wages, and working conditions. Nor shall the Employer negotiate with employees over their hours, wages and working conditions, except as provided herein.
ARTICLE II
Management Rights
Section 1.	Rights Residing in Management
Except as amended, changed or modified by this Agreement, the Employer retains the exclusive right to manage its operations, determine its policies, budget and operations, the manner of exercise of its statutory functions and the direction of its working forces, including, but not limited to: The right to hire, promote, demote, transfer, evaluate, allocate and assign employees; to discipline, suspend and discharge for just cause; to relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons; to determine the size and composition of the work force, to make and enforce reasonable rules of conduct and regulations; to determine the departments, divisions and sections and work to be performed therein; to determine the number of hours of work and shifts per workweek; to establish and change work schedules and assignments; to introduce new methods of operation; to eliminate, contract, and relocate or transfer work and maintain efficiency.
Section 2.	Statutory Obligations
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to modify, eliminate or detract from the statutory responsibilities and obligations of the Employer except that the exercise of its rights in the furtherance of such statutory obligations shall not be in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Non-Discrimination
Section 1.	Prohibition Against Discrimination
Both the Employer and the Union agree not to discriminate against any employee on the basis of race, sex, sexual orientation, creed, religion, color, marital or parental status, age, national origin, political affiliation and/or beliefs, nor shall the parties discriminate against any employee with a disability, or for other non-merit factors.
Section 2.	Union Activity
The Employer and the Union agree that no employee shall be discriminated against, intimidated, restrained or coerced in the exercise of any rights granted by the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 48, Section 1601 et seq. (P.A.	83-1012)
or by this Agreement, or on account of membership or nonmembership in, or lawful activities on behalf of the Union.
Section 3.	Membership Solicitation
Neither the Union nor its members shall solicit membership during an employee's work time.
Section 4.	Equal Employment/Affirmative Action/ADA
The parties recognize the Employer's obligation to comply with federal and state Equal Employment Affirmative Action Laws and the Americans with Disabilities Act.
ARTICLE IV
Checkoff/Fair Share
Section 1.	Deductions
The Employer agrees to deduct from the pay of those employees who individually request it any or all of the following:
a)	Union membership dues, assessments, or fees;
b)	Union sponsored credit Union contributions;
c)	P.E.O.P.L.E. contributions.
Request for any of the above shall be made on a form agreed to by the parties and shall be made within the provisions of the State Salary and Annuity Withholding Act and/or other applicable State statutes and/or procedures established by the Comptroller.
An employee who has previously authorized payroll deductions pursuant to this Section shall continue to have such deductions made and shall not be required to reauthorize such deductions unless the employee has specifically authorized revocation of deductions pursuant to Section 2 of this Article or has to re-sign other payroll deduction authorizations.
Upon receipt of an appropriate written authorization from an employee, such authorized deductions shall be made in accordance with law and the procedures of the Comptroller and shall be remitted semi-monthly to the Union in accordance with the current procedures, and at the address designated in writing to the Comptroller by the Union. The Local, State or International Union shall advise the Employer of any increase in dues or other approved deductions in writing at least fifteen (15) days prior to its effective date.
No later than July 1, 2005, when an employee has authorized payroll deductions for Union membership, the wage stub will state “Union dues” and the amount of deduction. If the employee has not authorized payroll deductions for Union membership, the wage stub will state “non mbr fees” and the amount of deduction.
Any time an authorized deduction would otherwise be discontinued without the employee’s specific authorization, the Employer shall notify the employee and shall provide the employee with the necessary cards and/or forms needed to continue said deduction.
Section 2.	Revocation
All employees covered by this Agreement who have signed Union dues checkoff cards for AFSCME prior to the effective date of this Agreement or who signed such cards after such date shall only be allowed to cancel such dues deduction within the prescribed procedures of the Comptroller.
Section 3.	Fair Share
Pursuant to Section 3(g) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act effective July 1, 1984, the parties agree that the Union certified proportionate share, which shall not exceed the amount of dues uniformly required of members, shall be deducted from the earnings of the non-member employees as their share of the cost of the collective bargaining process, contract administration and the pursuance of matters affecting wages, hours and conditions of employment subject to terms and provisions of the parties' fair share agreement. The amount so deducted shall be remitted semi-monthly to the Union.
Section 4.	Indemnification
The Union shall indemnify, defend and hold the Employer harmless against any claim, demand, suit or liability arising from any action taken by the Employer in complying with this Article.
Section 5.	Availability of Cards
If the facility or work location supplies revocation cards, it shall also make available Union deduction cards. Such cards shall be supplied by the Union and shall be made available only upon request of the employee.
ARTICLE V
Grievance Procedure
Statement of Principle. The parties agree that in order for the grievance procedure to function efficiently and effectively, all grievances must be resolved at the lowest possible level of the Grievance Procedure. Therefore, the parties agree that all persons responsible for resolving grievances at all levels of the procedure shall be vested with sufficient authority to undertake meaningful discussions and to settle the grievance, if appropriate.
In order to reduce the number of grievances advanced to Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure, upon review, if an Agency or a local Union is found to have a large percentage of its grievances being advanced to the fourth level, a committee made up of representatives of the Union and CMS shall meet and endeavor to determine if all necessary means of resolving the grievances have been exhausted at the lower levels of the grievance procedure. If it is found that all necessary means to resolve a grievance(s) have not been exhausted, the committee will return the grievance(s) to the appropriate lower step for resolution.
Section 1.	Grievance
a)	A grievance is defined as any difference, complaint or dispute between the Employer and the Union or any employee regarding the application, meaning or interpretation of this Agreement or arising out of other circumstances or conditions of employment.
b)	A written grievance shall contain a statement of the grievant's complaint, the Section(s) of the Agreement allegedly violated, if applicable, the date of the alleged violation and the relief sought. The form shall be signed and dated by the grievant. Improper grievance form, date or section citation shall not be grounds for denial of the grievance.
c)	Grievances may be processed by the Union on behalf of an employee or on behalf of a group of employees or itself setting forth name(s) or group(s) of the employee(s). Either party may have the grievant or one grievant representing group grievants present at any step of the grievance procedure, and the employee is entitled to Union representation at each and every step of the grievance procedure. The resolution of a grievance filed on behalf of a group of employees shall be made applicable to the appropriate employees within that group.
d)	Nothing shall diminish the rights of an employee under P.A. 83-1012 or the rights of the Union under this Agreement.
Section 2.	Grievance Steps
Step 1: Immediate Supervisor
The employee and/or the Union shall orally raise the grievance with the employee's supervisor who is outside the bargaining unit. The employee shall inform the supervisor that this discussion constitutes the first step of the grievance procedure. All grievances must be presented not later than ten (10) working days from the date the grievant became aware of the occurrence giving rise to the complaint. The immediate supervisor shall render an oral response to the grievance within five (5) working days after the grievance is presented. If the oral grievance is not resolved at Step 1, the immediate supervisor shall sign the written statement of grievance prepared for submission at Step 2 acknowledging discussion of the grievance. In those circumstances where securing the signature of the first level supervisor who is physically not available to sign would have adversely affected a timely submittal to the second level, the grievance will be submitted to the second level without such signature. A copy of the grievance shall subsequently be provided to the first level supervisor for such signature. The parties recognize that variations from the immediate supervisor, where mutually agreeable, may exist.
Step 2: Intermediate Administrator
In the event the grievance is not resolved in Step 1, it shall be presented in writing by the Union to the Intermediate Administrator or his/her designee within five (5) working days from the receipt of the answer or the date such answer was due, whichever is earliest. Within ten (10) working days after the grievance is presented to Step 2, the Intermediate Administrator shall meet, discuss and attempt to resolve the grievance with the Union. If the parties are unable to resolve the grievance, the Intermediate Administrator shall render a written answer to the grievance within five (5) working days after such discussion is held and provide a copy of such answer to the Union. The written grievance shall be on an agreed upon form which shall be provided by the Union. The written grievance shall contain a statement of the grievant's complaint, the Section(s) of the Agreement allegedly violated, if applicable, the date of the alleged violation and the relief sought. The form shall be signed and dated by the grievant. Improper
grievance form, date or section citation shall not be grounds for denial of the grievance.
Step 3: Agency Head
If the grievance is still unresolved, it shall be presented by the Union to the Agency Head or his/her designee in writing within fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the Step 2 response or after the Step 2 response is due, whichever is earliest, or within fifteen (15) working days after the Step 1 response, or after the Step 1 response is due, if Step 2 is not applicable. It is agreed that appeals postmarked within the fifteen (15) working days time limit are timely. A copy of said grievance shall also be sent by the local Union to the Union’s Step 3 representative. A grievance will not appear on the third level agenda unless a signed and dated grievance has been presented to the Agency Head or designee.
For the Departments of DCFS and Revenue, the Union shall be represented by a committee in each agency, made up of Union staff and four (4) bargaining unit members. For the Department of Human Services, the Union shall be represented by a committee made up of Union staff and seven (7) bargaining unit members. For the Department of Corrections, the Union shall be represented by a committee made up of Union staff and five (5) bargaining unit members. For all other Departments, the Union shall be represented by Union staff and a total of six (6) bargaining unit members representing all other Agencies. Each agency shall be represented by the agency head or his/her designee.
Agency level grievance meetings shall be convened monthly at a time and place of mutual agreement. The duration of the meeting shall be dictated by the number of grievances pending, but shall be no more than five (5) days per month. After a grievance has been discussed at a Step 3 meeting either party may place the grievance on hold status. There shall only be one hold per grievance and any deviation from same shall be on a case by case basis, following mutual consultation and agreement. If the grievance has been resolved or denied, the parties shall sign the resolution within ten (10) working days.
Attendance at such meetings shall be without loss of pay subject to reasonable attendance requirements. The bargaining unit members of the Committee shall be paid for one-half day travel, if they are traveling from the Chicago area to the Springfield area or
equivalent of same. The Committee members will be in paid status the remainder of the work day while and if in preparation for the scheduled grievance meeting. Management reserves the right to verify the use of time for travel and preparation as is stated above.
Step 4:
a) If the matter is not resolved at Step 3, the Union, by written notice to the Employer within fifteen (15) working days of the grievance being signed-off by the parties at Step 3, may appeal the grievance(s) to a pre-arbitration staff meeting. It is agreed that appeals postmarked within the fifteen (15) working days time limit are timely.
Pre-Arbitration Staff Meeting - CMS staff and Union staff shall meet on a monthly basis in an attempt to resolve the grievance(s) which are capable of resolution. The duration of the meeting shall be dictated by the number of grievances pending, but shall be no more than five (5) days per month. Such staff shall have the full authority to resolve those cases moved to the pre-arbitration level. If the grievance has been resolved or moved to arbitration by the Union, the parties shall sign the resolution within ten (10) working days.
b) Arbitration
Expedited
1.	The parties agree to use an expedited arbitration system for all non-priority grievances, except as otherwise provided herein. The arbitrator shall be assigned from a designated panel. The arbitrator shall be a member of the Expedited Panel agreed upon by the parties. After the parties have signed the Step 4 resolution moving the grievance to Expedited arbitration, the parties shall arrange a place and date to conduct the hearing within a period of not more than sixty (60) days. Nothing herein precludes multiple cases being heard on the same day before the same arbitrator.
2.	If either party concludes that the issues involved are of such complexity or significance as to warrant referral to the Regular Arbitration Panel, that party shall notify the other party of same at least five (5) working days prior to the scheduled time for the expedited arbitration. If there is a cancellation fee, that party shall bear the cost.
3.	The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the following:
a)	the hearing shall be informal;
b)	no briefs shall be filed or transcripts made;
c)	there shall be no formal rules of evidence;
d)	the hearing shall normally be completed within one day;
e)	if the parties mutually agree at the hearing that the issues involved are of such complexity or significance as to warrant reference to the Regular Arbitration Panel, the case shall be referred to that panel and the parties shall split the arbitrator’s cost; and
f)	the arbitrator may issue a bench decision at the hearing but in any event shall render a decision within two (2) working days after conclusion of the hearing. Such decision shall be based on the evidence before the arbitrator and shall include a brief written explanation of the basis for such conclusion. An arbitrator who issues a bench decision shall furnish a written copy of the award to the parties within two (2) working days of the close of the hearing;
g)	the parties agree to attempt to arrive at a joint stipulation of facts and issues prior to arbitration;
h)	the parties shall attempt to limit the number of witnesses and the overall time for the presentation of the grievance so that additional grievances may be presented on the same day. Discussion for the purpose of limiting the length of the arbitration shall take place prior to the date of the arbitration.
4.	A decision by a member of the Expedited Panel shall be final and binding, except it shall not be regarded as precedent or be cited in any future proceeding.
Regular Arbitration
1.	Only priority grievances as defined in the MOU on Special Grievances, contract interpretation cases or those other disputes as may be mutually determined by the parties shall be scheduled for Regular Arbitration.
2.	Arbitrators shall be selected from a permanent regular panel agreed upon by the parties. Each such arbitrator shall commit in advance to a minimum of two dates a month for the calendar year.
3.	The parties shall make every effort to have the dispute heard at an arbitration hearing to be held within sixty (60) days following the Step 4A signoff.
4.	The arbitrator in any given case must render an award therein within thirty (30) days of the close of the record in the case.
c) Arbitration Procedures
Both parties agree to attempt to arrive at a joint stipulation of the facts and issues as outlined to be submitted to the arbitrator.
The Employer or Union shall have the right to request the arbitrator to require the presence of witnesses and/or documents. Each party shall bear the expense of its own witnesses who are not employees of the Employer.
Questions of arbitrability shall be decided by the arbitrator. If a question of arbitrability is raised, the arbitrator must first make a determination of the arbitrability of the dispute unless the issue is of such a nature that a determination cannot be made at the hearing. Once a determination is made that the matter is arbitrable or if such preliminary determination cannot be reasonably made, the arbitrator shall then proceed to determine the merits of the dispute. The arbitrator shall neither amend, modify, nullify, ignore, add or subtract from the provisions of this Agreement.
The expenses and fees of the arbitrator shall be paid by the losing party. In cases of split decisions the arbitrator shall determine what portion each party shall be billed for expenses and fees. The cost of the hearing rooms, if any, shall be shared equally. Nothing in this Article shall preclude the parties from agreeing to the appointment of a permanent arbitrator(s) during the term of this Agreement or to use the expedited arbitration procedures of the American Arbitration Association.
The decision and award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the Employer, the Union, and the employee or employees involved.
If either party desires a verbatim record of the proceeding (Regular Arbitration only), it may cause such a record to be made, providing it pays for the record and makes a copy available without charge to the arbitrator. If the other party desires a copy it shall pay for the cost of its copy. If the parties agree to utilize a court reporter, the cost shall be shared.
Section 3.	Time Limits
a)	Grievances may be withdrawn at any step of the Grievance Procedure without prejudice. Grievances not appealed within the designated time limits will be treated as withdrawn grievances.
b)	The time limits at any step or for any hearing may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties involved at that particular step.
c)	The Employer's failure to respond within the time limits shall not find in favor of the grievant, but shall automatically advance the grievance to the next steps.
d)	If the grievant has filed an appeal with the Civil Service Commission over a subject matter identical to that employee's grievance, the parties agree that the Grievance Procedure will not be applicable and the grievance shall be treated as withdrawn, unless the employee withdraws his/her appeal to the Civil Service Commission prior to a Civil Service Commission hearing being held and the grievance was timely filed and processed by the Union through the contractual grievance procedure.
e)	It is understood by the parties that the time limits for filing a grievance on a timely basis for disciplinary action shall begin on the date the employee receives the CMS-2.
Section 4.	Special Grievances/Memorandum of Understanding
Grievances concerning discharge, suspensions pending judicial verdict, demotions, geographical transfers, reclassifications, layoffs, schedule changes pursuant to Article XII, Section 20, and the salary grade placement for new classifications pursuant to Article XXVI, Section 8 shall be processed in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding.
Section 5.	Number of Representatives and Jurisdictions
The number of Union stewards and the facilities they represent shall be agreed upon locally. The Union shall designate the Union stewards and representatives and shall supply a list of names in writing to the Department of Central Management Services and agency and local level administrators on a quarterly basis. Existing local agreements, except by mutual agreement, shall not be changed.
Section 6.	Time Off, Meeting Space and Equipment Use
a)	Time Off: The grievant(s) and/or Union grievance representative(s) will be permitted reasonable time without loss of pay during their working hours to investigate and process grievances. A grievant who is called back on a different shift or on his/her day off as a result of the Employer scheduling a grievance meeting shall have such time spent in the meeting considered as time worked. Witnesses whose testimony is pertinent to the Union's presentation or argument will be permitted reasonable time without loss of pay to attend grievance meetings and/or respond to the Union's investigation. No employee or Union representative shall leave his/her work to investigate, file or process grievances without first notifying and making mutual arrangement with his/her supervisor or designee as well as the supervisor of any unit to be visited, and such arrangements shall not be denied unreasonably. Employees attending grievance meetings shall normally be those having direct involvement in the grievance. The Employer reserves the right to require reasonable documentation of time spent in processing grievances including time spent using the telephone for these purposes. The Employer agrees that such documentation of time shall not be construed to allow supervisors to question the content or merits of the grievance(s).
b)	Meeting Space and Equipment Use: Upon request, the employee and Union representative shall be allowed the use of an available appropriate room while investigating or processing a grievance; and, upon prior general approval, shall be permitted the reasonable use of telephone facilities for the purpose of investigating or processing grievances. When feasible, and where equipment is currently available, Union stewards and/or officers may utilize electronic mail and/or facsimile equipment for the purpose of investigating or processing grievances. Such transmission will be primarily to expedite communication regarding such matters, will be reasonable with respect to time and volume, and will be consistent with this Article. Such use shall not include any long distance or toll calls at the expense of the Employer.
c)	The Employer shall not be responsible for any travel or subsistence expenses incurred by employee or Union representatives in the processing of grievances.
Section 7.	Advanced Grievance Step Filing
Certain issues which by nature are not capable of being settled at a preliminary step of the grievance procedure or which would become moot due to the length of time necessary to exhaust the grievance steps, such as those pertaining to Article XXIII, Section 3, may by mutual agreement be filed at the appropriate advance step where the action giving rise to the grievance was initiated.
Mutual agreement shall take place between the appropriate Union representative and the appropriate Employer representative at the step where it is desired to initiate the grievance.
Section 8.	Pertinent Witnesses and Information
Except as otherwise provided in Steps 4(b) and 4(c), either party may request the production of specific documents, books, papers or witnesses reasonably available and substantially pertinent to the grievance under consideration. Such request shall not be unreasonably denied, and if granted shall be in conformance with applicable laws, and rules issued pursuant thereto, governing the dissemination of such materials.
Requests to interview the other party’s witnesses shall be made through the appropriate representatives. Each party shall have the right to have its representatives present during all such interviews.
If the request is unreasonably denied, the Union may petition the Director of Central Management Services who shall subpoena the substantially pertinent material and/or witnesses in conformance with the provisions of this Section and his/her statutory powers within ten (10) working days of receiving such request. The operating Agency shall have ten (10) working days to respond to the subpoena. Any delay shall not penalize the grievant.
Section 9.	Stewards and Union Representatives
Those employees acting as stewards and/or Union representatives shall not receive preferential treatment with regards to shift or job assignments. The Employer agrees, however, that such employees shall be reassigned because of operational needs only and not because of legitimate Union activity.
ARTICLE VI
Union Rights
Section 1.	Union Activity During Working Hours
Employees shall, after giving appropriate notice to their supervisor, be allowed reasonable time off with pay during working hours to attend grievance hearings, labor/management meetings, negotiations of their own agency and/or facility supplemental agreements, meetings covering modifications of supplemental agreements, committee meetings and activities if such committees have been established by this Contract, or meetings called or agreed to by the Employer, if such employees are entitled or required to attend such meetings by virtue of being Union representatives, stewards, witnesses, or grievants, and if such attendance does not substantially interfere with the Employer's operations. Any employee exercising rights under this Section shall be limited to his/her operating agency unless the employee is requesting to attend such meetings or hearings at a worksite that does not have a steward or representative available or the employee is an officer or representative of a conglomerate local representing more than one state agency. For conglomerate locals which cover multiple work locations, only one (1) officer or representative shall be permitted to leave a given worksite and only one (1) officer or representative shall be permitted to visit a given work site of another agency at one (1) time for purposes of this section.
Section 2.	Access to State Premises by Union Representatives
The Employer agrees that local representatives and officers and AFSCME staff representatives shall have reasonable access to the premises of the Employer, giving notice upon arrival to the appropriate Employer representative. Such visitations shall be for the reason of the administration of this Agreement. By mutual arrangement with the Employer in emergency situations, Union staff representatives or local Union representatives may call a meeting during work hours to prevent, resolve or clarify a problem.
Section 3.	Time Off for Union Activities
Local Union representatives shall be allowed time off without pay for legitimate Union business such as Union meetings, State or area wide Union committee meetings, Union training sessions, State-wide contract negotiations, State or International conventions, provided such representative shall give reasonable notice to his/her supervisor of such
absence and shall be allowed such time off if it does not substantially interfere with the operating needs of the Employer. The employee may utilize any accumulated time (holiday, personal, vacation days) in lieu of taking such without pay.
Such time off shall not be detrimental in any way to the employee's record.
Employees absent from work pursuant to this Section shall continue to accrue seniority, continuous service and creditable service during such absences.
Section 4.	Union Bulletin Boards
The Employer shall continue to provide bulletin boards and/or space at each work location. The number, size and location of each shall be mutually agreed to by the parties in local level negotiations. The boards shall be for the sole and exclusive use of the Union. The items posted shall not be political, partisan or defamatory in nature.
Section 5.	Information Provided to Union
At least once each month, the Employer shall notify the Union in writing of the following personnel transactions involving bargaining unit employees within each agency and on a work location basis: New hires, promotions, bid numbers where such are used, demotions, reallocations, superior performance increases, checkoff revocations, layoffs, reemployments, transfers, leaves, returns from leave, suspensions, discharges, terminations and Social Security numbers.
In addition, the Employer shall furnish the Union every ninety (90) days the current seniority rosters and reemployment lists, applicable under the seniority provisions of this Agreement.
In all transactions listed above, employees' Social Security numbers shall be provided. The Union shall upon request receive such information on computer tapes, where available, from the Department of Central Management Services.
Each agency will provide the Union with information concerning temporary assignments when such information becomes available and in a form mutually agreed upon between the Agency and the Union. The frequency and other details of the provision of such information will be determined by the parties in Supplementary negotiations.
The Employer will notify the Union when a bargaining unit position (vacant or otherwise) is abolished and upon request discuss with the Union such abolishment.
Section 6.	Distribution of Union Literature
During employee's non-working hours, he/she shall be permitted to distribute Union literature to other nonworking employees in non-work areas and in work areas during non-work hours giving notice upon arrival to the appropriate supervisor of the building or work location as applicable. He/she shall be allowed access to general public entrances, public hallways, cafeterias, etc., for such purposes.
However, the parties recognize that at some worksites, a staggered schedule for breaks and meal periods or starting and quitting times creates the condition in which some employees are always working while others are not. Where distribution would consequently be disruptive of working employees, it shall normally be carried out while the largest number of employees are on rest or meal periods or other non-working time.
Section 7.	Union Meetings on State Premises
The Employer agrees to make available State conference and meeting rooms for Union meetings upon prior notification by the designated Union representative, unless to do so would seriously interfere with the operating needs of the Employer, or cause additional cost or undue inconvenience to the Employer.
Section 8.	Rate of Pay
Any time off with pay provided for under this Article shall be at the employee's regular rate of pay as though the employee were working.
Section 9.	Union Orientation
The current practices with respect to Union orientation of new employees in those agencies where the Union conducts said orientation shall continue.
The Union shall be permitted to conduct an orientation program of new employees. In those agencies that do not have a regularly scheduled orientation of new employees, the mechanics of Union orientation shall be determined pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding entitled "Supplemental Agreements".
Such attendance by employees shall be on a voluntary basis and without loss of pay for the employees involved.
ARTICLE VII
Labor/Management Committee Meetings
For the purpose of maintaining communications between labor and management in order to cooperatively discuss and solve problems of mutual concern:
a)	The head of each work location or his/her designee shall meet monthly with the appropriate Union committee representing this bargaining unit or, if the parties agree, combined meetings with other AFSCME bargaining units. Less frequent meetings may occur by mutual agreement of the parties;
b)	The agency head and/or his/her designees shall meet with the Union at least once every six (6) months;
c)	The Department of Central Management Services shall meet with the Union at least once every six (6) months.
The above meetings shall be scheduled at a time, place and date mutually agreed upon. More frequent work location meetings may be held when necessary at the request of either party. Such meetings shall be conducted combining all bargaining units unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Each party shall prepare and submit an agenda to the other one (1) week prior to the scheduled meeting. Minutes shall be taken and forwarded to the parties. These meetings may be attended by a reasonable number of AFSCME staff representatives and Local Union representatives from facilities or work locations as designated by the Union, except past practice in regards to the number of employees for the RC-6 and RC-9 bargaining units shall prevail.
(RC-42 only)
Monthly labor management meetings may be attended by no more than three (3) bargaining unit employees and by a reasonable number of AFSCME staff representatives and local Union representatives from facilities or work locations as designated by the Union. The six (6) month agency labor management meetings may be attended by no more than six (6) bargaining unit employees, except that the Department of Natural Resources is allowed eight (8) bargaining unit employees. The state-wide six (6) month labor management meeting with the Department of Central Management Services shall be attended by no more than fifteen (15) bargaining unit employees.
ARTICLE VIII
Work Rules
Section 1.	Rules of Personal Conduct
The Employer has the right to establish reasonable rules of personal conduct and will notify the employees and the Union within ten (10) working days in advance of any new or modified rules of personal conduct.
Section 2.	Procedural Work Rules
Prior to establishing or changing procedural work rules or regulations, such as off-duty uniform usages, absent or tardy call-ins, doctors’ statements for absences, parking violations and other similar matters, the Employer shall meet with the Union in a timely manner for the purpose of consultation and negotiations. Such procedural work rules and/or regulations shall either be posted or otherwise made available to affected employees.
ARTICLE IX
Discipline
Section 1.	Definition
A.	The Employer agrees with the tenets of progressive and corrective discipline. Disciplinary action or measures shall include only the following:
a)	Oral reprimand (RC-10 excluded);
b)	Written reprimand;
c)	Suspension (notice to be given in writing); and d) Discharge (notice to be given in writing).
Disciplinary action may be imposed upon an employee only for just cause. An employee shall not be demoted for disciplinary reasons. Discipline shall be imposed as soon as possible after the Employer is aware of the event or action giving rise to the discipline and has a reasonable period of time to investigate the matter.
In any event, the actual date upon which discipline commences may not exceed forty-five (45) days after the completion of the pre-disciplinary meeting.
The parties recognize that counselling and corrective action plans are not considered disciplinary actions.
B.	All agencies, boards, and commissions with employees covered under the Master Contract shall implement an Affirmative Attendance Policy unless by mutual agreement the individual agency, board, or commission, and the Union mutually agree not to implement such Affirmative Attendance Policy. The parties agree to meet immediately upon the execution of the collective bargaining agreement in order to negotiate the specific provisions of an affirmative attendance policy for each agency, board, or commission under the collective bargaining agreement. Unless mutual agreement is reached not to implement an affirmative attendance policy, such negotiations shall be completed or existing agreements may be re-opened at the request of either party no later than October 1, 2000. If negotiations are not completed by such date, CMS and the Union will negotiate the affirmative attendance policy for the applicable agency, board or commission.
The Affirmative Attendance Policy shall include a specific schedule of discipline for absences; a program implementing a maximum served suspension period for actual suspension time pursuant to the policy; and, the below definition of acceptable medical certification for proof status:
a. Signature, address, and phone number of the medical practitioner;
b.
The pertinent date(s) in question; and,
c. An indication that the employee was unable to work on the date(s) in question for reasons of personal or family illness.
Except as may be specifically excepted above, the procedures and use of time off for each agency shall remain in effect unless the parties negotiate alterations to existing policies and procedures.
An employee shall, whenever possible, provide advance notice of absence from work. Absence of an employee for five (5) consecutive work days without reporting to the Employer or the person designated by the Employer to receive such notification may be cause for discharge. The above provision shall not apply so long as the employee then notifies as soon as it is physically possible.
Section 2.	Manner of Discipline
If the Employer has reason to discipline an employee, it shall be done in a manner that will not embarrass the employee before other employees or the public.
Section 3.	Suspension Pending Discharge
The Employer may suspend an employee for up to thirty (30) calendar days pending the decision whether or not charges for discharge shall be filed against the employee and such actions shall not be subject to Article V, Grievance Procedure. If suspension pending discharge is replaced by another disciplinary action, written notice will be issued and such action may be subject to the grievance procedure.
Section 4.	Pre-Disciplinary Meeting
For discipline other than oral reprimands, the Employer shall hold a pre-disciplinary meeting. Pre-disciplinary meetings and employee review hearings shall be held during the employee's worktime. If arrangements for such cannot reasonably be made, the hearing shall be scheduled immediately preceding or immediately following the employee's shift on the employee's workday. An employee whose hearing begins after the end of his/her shift shall be paid from the end of his/her shift through the end of his/her hearing at the appropriate rate. An employee whose hearing begins before the start of his/her shift shall be paid from the time the hearing is scheduled through the
start of the employee's shift at the appropriate rate. Should the hearing be postponed or rescheduled at the request of the employee and/or the Union at a time other than before, during, or after the employee's shift, provisions for payment shall not apply.
Prior to notifying the employee of the contemplated measure of discipline to be imposed, the Employer shall notify the Union of the meeting and reasonably in advance of such meeting shall provide the Union with the alleged infraction and shall make every reasonable effort to provide all documentation being used by the Employer to substantiate the alleged infraction. The Employer then shall meet with the employee involved and inform him/her of the reasons for such contemplated disciplinary action including any names of witnesses and copies of pertinent documents. Employees shall be informed of their rights to Union representation and shall be entitled to such, if so requested by the employee, and the employee and Union representative shall be given the opportunity to rebut or clarify the reasons for such discipline.
Reasonable extensions of time for rebuttal purposes will be allowed when warranted and if requested. If the employee does not request Union representation, a Union representative shall nevertheless be entitled to be present as a non-active participant at any and all such meetings. Except for discipline pursuant to an agreed upon time abuse policy, the current procedure for pre-suspension/pre-separation hearings in Cook County Public Aid shall continue, unless amended by the parties in supplemental negotiations.
Section 5.	Oral Reprimands
In cases of oral reprimands, the supervisor must inform the employee that he/she is receiving an oral reprimand and of their right to Union representation, which shall be provided if so requested. The employee shall also be given reasons for such discipline, including any names of witnesses and copies of pertinent documents. Notations of oral reprimands placed in the employee's personnel file shall be provided to the employee and the Union.
Section 6.	Notification and Measure of Disciplinary Action
a)	In the event disciplinary action is taken against an employee, other than the issuance of an oral reprimand, the Employer shall promptly furnish the employee and the Union in writing with a clear and concise statement of the reasons therefore. The measure of discipline and the statement of reasons may be modified, especially in cases involving suspension pending discharge, after the
investigation of the total facts and circumstances. But once the measure of discipline is determined and imposed, the Employer shall not increase it for the particular act of misconduct which arose from the same facts and circumstances. The Employer shall notify an employee of his/her suspension prior to its effective date. If the Employer is unable to contact the employee, the Employer shall notify the Union prior to the effective date of the suspension.
b)	An employee shall be entitled to the presence of a Union representative at an investigatory interview if he/she requests one and if the employee has reasonable grounds to believe that the interview may be used to support disciplinary action against him/her. Such Union representative may be present during an investigatory interview for the purpose of protecting an employee's rights under the Collective Bargaining Agreement; however, such Union representative shall not act in such a manner so as to obstruct the investigation. It is understood by the parties that an employee's statement, either oral or written, made in investigatory interviews when representation is requested by the employee and denied shall not be used against him/her in any subsequent disciplinary action. Following such an investigation the employee and the Union shall be notified in writing that the investigation is complete. If an investigation of alleged employee misconduct does not lead to discipline, the investigation shall be closed and further will not become part of the employee's permanent file nor be used to adversely affect the employee's contractual rights.
c)	Nothing in this Section shall prevent the Employer from relieving employees from duty in accordance with its practice. The employee shall not lose any wages because of such release.
Section 7.	Removal of Discipline
Any written reprimand or discipline imposed for tardiness or absenteeism shall be removed from an employee's record if, from the date of the last reprimand or discipline, two (2) years pass without the employee receiving an additional reprimand or discipline for such offense. The two (2) year period shall be extended by any leave of absence or disciplinary suspension. Any reprimand for other causes shall be removed from the employee's record based on the above criteria. Such removal shall be at the request of the employee but in any case shall not be used against the employee.
Section 8.	Polygraph
No employee shall be required to take a polygraph examination as a condition of retaining employment with the Employer nor shall be subject to discipline for the refusal to take such. An AFSCME representative may accompany a bargaining unit employee to a polygraph examination. The representative may review the polygraph questions but may not be present during the administration of the polygraph examination.
ARTICLE X
Vacations
Section 1.	Amounts
Employees, except emergency, temporary and those paid pursuant to Part II, Section 3 of the Pay Plan, shall earn vacation time. No employee on leave of absence may earn vacation except when the leave was for the purpose of accepting a temporary working assignment in another class.
Eligible employees shall earn vacation time in accordance with the following schedule:
a)	From the date of hire until the completion of five (5) years of continuous service: ten (10) work days per year.
b)	From the completion of five (5) years of continuous service until the completion of nine (9) years of continuous service: fifteen (15) work days per year.
c)	From the completion of nine (9) years of continuous service until the completion of fourteen (14) years of continuous service: seventeen (17) work days per year.
d)	From the completion of fourteen (14) years of continuous service until the completion of nineteen (19) years of continuous service: twenty (20) work days per year.
e)	From the completion of nineteen (19) years of continuous service until the completion of twenty-five (25) years of continuous service: twenty-two (22) work days per year.
f)	From completion of twenty-five (25) years of continuous service: twenty-five (25) work days per year.
Probationary employees earn vacation and may use such during their original six (6) months probationary period at the discretion of the Employer. Employees must be in paid status at least one-half (1/2) of the work days of the month to be credited for their earned vacation for that month.
Section 2.	Vacation Time
Vacation time may be taken in increments of not less than one-half (1/2) day at a time, and any time after it is earned. Supervisors may however, grant employee requests to use vacation time in smaller increments of one-half (1/2) hour after a minimum use of one (1) hour. Vacation time shall not be accumulated for more than twenty-four (24) months after the end of the calendar year in which it is earned.
Vacation time earned shall be computed in workdays.
After an employee's earned vacation time has been so computed, if there remains a fractional balance of one-half (5/10) of a workday or less, the employee shall be deemed to have earned vacation time of one-half (5/10) of a workday, in lieu of the fractional balance; if there remains a fractional balance of more than one-half (5/10) of a workday, the employee shall be deemed to have earned a full workday of vacation time in lieu of a fractional balance.
Such rounding off of fractional balances shall only be done upon an employee's request for vacation days in increments of five (5) or more. However, no employee shall accumulate more than one (1) day per calendar year by rounding off under this Section.
Section 3.	Interrupted Service
Computation of vacation time of State employees who have interrupted continuous State service shall be determined as though all previous State service which qualified for earning of vacation benefits is continuous with present service. The rule provided in this paragraph applies to vacation time earned on or after October 1, 1972.
Section 4.	Part-time and Intermittent Employees
Part-time employees shall earn vacation in accordance with the schedule set forth in Section 1 of this Article on a pro-rated basis determined by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the hours worked by the employee and the denominator of which shall be the normal working hours in the year required by the position. Intermittent employees shall earn vacation in accordance with the current practice.
Section 5.	Vacation Schedules
Subject to Section 6 and the Employer's operating needs, vacations shall be scheduled as requested by the employee in writing. The Employer shall respond to vacation requests within five (5) work days. Where current practice
provides for a quicker response, such practice shall continue. Once scheduled vacation is approved it will only be canceled if the Employer's operating needs require that employee's services. The necessity of an overtime assignment shall not be a consideration in the cancellation of approved vacation. In any event, upon request, vacation time must be scheduled so that it may be taken no later than twenty-four (24) months after the expiration of the calendar year in which such vacation time was earned. If an employee does not request and take accrued vacation within such twenty-four (24) month period, vacation earned during such calendar year shall be lost. Except that the period of time an employee is on an approved leave of absence pursuant to Article XXIII, Leaves of Absence, shall not count toward the twenty-four (24) month period.
Section 6.	Vacation Schedules by Seniority
By January 31 of each calendar year, employees may submit in writing to the Employer their preferences for different time periods for vacation, provided an employee may not submit more than three (3) preferences. Such request may include vacation through the end of February of the following calendar year. In establishing vacation schedules, the Employer shall consider both the employee's preference and the operating needs of the agency. Where the Employer is unable to grant and schedule vacation preferences for all employees within a position classification within a facility but is able to grant some of such (one or more) employees such vacation preferences, employees within the position classification shall be granted such preferred vacation period on the basis of seniority. An employee who has been granted his/her first preference shall not be granted another preference request if such would require denial of the first preference of a less senior employee. An employee's preference shall be defined as a specific block of time uninterrupted by work days.
Employees who file their preference by January 31, shall be notified of the vacation schedules by March 1 of that calendar year. Employees requesting vacation time who have moved at their prerogative to a different work unit, and whose preference conflicts with another employee in that work unit, or those employees who have not filed their preference by January 31 or were not granted such request, shall be scheduled on the basis of the employee's preference and the operating needs of the Employer.
Section 7.	Payment in Lieu of Vacation
a)	If because of operating needs the Employer cannot grant an employee's request for vacation time within the twenty-four (24) month period after the
expiration of the calendar year such time was earned, such vacation time shall be liquidated in cash at straight time provided the employee has made at least three (3) requests, each for different time periods, for such time within the calendar year preceding liquidation, or it may be accumulated indefinitely subject to the provisions of this Article.
b)	No salary payment shall be made in lieu of vacation earned but not taken except as in (a) above and on termination of employment for eligible employees with at least six (6) months of continuous service in which case the effective date of termination shall not be extended by the number of days represented by said salary payment.
c)	An employee who is indeterminately laid off pursuant to Article XX, Section 2, may receive lump sum payment in lieu of unused vacation under this Section at the request of the employee and with determination by the agency that funds are so available, otherwise the employee shall be paid from the regular payroll on a day-for-day basis until such accrued vacation is liquidated.
Such liquidation of vacation benefits does not extend the effective date of layoff and no additional benefits shall be earned or granted during such period of liquidation of vacation benefits.
In the event an agency specifies in the layoff plan approved in accordance with Personnel Rule 302.520 that the employee is to be recalled under Article XX, Section 5, Recall, on a certain date, the payment of salary in lieu of vacation may be withheld, with the payment becoming due on the date the employee is scheduled to return if in fact the employee is not recalled on that date.
In the event an employee is returned to active employment in trainee, provisional, probationary, certified or exempt status during such period of liquidation of vacation benefits, payment shall cease and the unpaid balance credited to the employee's vacation account. If the return is to any other status, the liquidation shall be completed, unless the employee requests otherwise.
Section 8.	Payment on Death of Employee
Upon the death of the State employee, the person or persons specified in Section 14a of "an Act in relation to State Finance," approved June 10, 1919, as amended, shall be entitled to receive from the appropriation for personal services theretofore available for payment of the employee's compensation such sum for any accrued vacation period to
which the employee was entitled at the time of death. Such shall be computed by multiplying the employee's daily rate by the number of days accrued vacation due.
Section 9.	Disposition of Work During Vacation
Insofar as practicable during an employee's vacation, the Employer shall assign non-individual work to other employees. Upon return from vacation, an employee shall be allowed reasonable time to review work done during his/her absence.
Section 10.	Vacation Pay/Academic Year Educators (RC-63)
Beginning with the academic school year 2000, permanent, full-time academic year Educators shall earn vacation in accordance with the following schedule:
a)	From the completion of one (1) year of service until the completion of ten (10) years of service: three (3) work days per year of employment.
b)	From completion of ten (10) years of service until the completion of fourteen (14) years of service: five (5) work days per year of employment.
c)	From completion of fourteen (14) years of service until the completion of nineteen (19) years of service: eight (8) work days per year of employment.
d)	From completion of nineteen (19) years of service until the completion of twenty-five (25) years of service: eleven (11) work days per year of employment.
e)	From completion of twenty-five (25) years of service: fourteen (14) work days per year of employment.
Payment for such vacation shall be paid in cash during the fiscal year in which it was earned unless the Superintendent at his/her discretion grants employee requests for vacation time usage during the academic year.
ARTICLE XI
Holidays
Section 1.	Amounts
All employees shall have time off, with full salary payment on the following holidays or the day designated as such by the State:
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King Day
Lincoln's Birthday
Washington's Birthday
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Columbus Day
Veterans' Day
Thanksgiving Day
Friday Following Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
General Election Day
(on which members of the House of Representatives are elected)
and any additional days proclaimed as holidays or nonworking days by the Governor of the State of Illinois or by the President of the United States.
Section 2.	Equivalent Time Off
When a holiday falls on an employee's scheduled day off, or an employee works on a holiday, equivalent time off shall be granted within the following twelve (12) month period. It shall be granted on the day requested by the employee unless to do so would interfere with the Employer's operations, in which event the employee's next requested day off shall be given or cash paid in lieu thereof, or accumulated indefinitely.
Holiday time off may be taken in increments of one-half (1/2) day, except where current practice so provides it may be taken in increments of less than one-half (1/2) day in accordance with that practice. Notwithstanding the above, supervisors may grant employee requests to use holiday time in smaller increments of one-half (1/2) hour after a minimum use of one (1) hour.
Section 3.	Cash Payment
In lieu of equivalent time off as provided for in Section 2 above, an employee who works either the actual holiday or the observed holiday may choose to receive double time cash payment, except an employee who works on only Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day may choose to receive double time and one-half cash payment in lieu of time off. When an employee works two shifts (excluding roll-call) on a day on which a holiday falls, either the actual holiday or the observed holiday, he/she shall receive equivalent time off or cash payment in the amounts specified above for any time in excess of his/her regular hours of work.
Section 4.	Advance Notice
Employees scheduled to work a holiday shall be given as much advance notice as practicable. (RC 62 and RC 63 only) Such holiday scheduling shall be from among employees who perform the actual duties and responsibilities of the necessary work and shall be on a seniority rotation basis subject to the operating needs of the agency.
Section 5.	Holiday During Vacation
When a holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled work day during the employee's vacation period, the employee will be charged with that holiday and retain the vacation day.
Section 6.	Eligibility
To be eligible for holiday pay, the employee shall work the employee's last scheduled work day before the holiday and first scheduled work day after the holiday, unless absence on either or both of these work days is for good cause and approved by the Employer.
Intermittent employees to be eligible for holiday pay shall work their regularly scheduled day before the holiday and their regularly scheduled day after the holiday within a period of ten (10) working days which shall include the holiday.
It is understood by the parties that permanent parttime employees shall be eligible for holiday payment in accordance with Article XI, Section 6, on a pro-rated basis. Such pro-ration shall be according to the number of paid holidays regular full-time employees receive. Part-time employees whose schedules are specifically weekends and holidays are excluded from this provision.
Section 7.	Accumulated Holiday Scheduling
Where the Employer is unable to grant the request from all employees within a position classification for a particular day off in the utilization of an accumulated holiday under this Article, but is able to grant some (one or more) of such employees such day off, an employee(s) within the position classification shall be granted the requested day off on the basis of seniority provided such senior employee(s) has made such request at least two (2) weeks prior to the requested accumulated holiday off. If no prior request was made within the above time limits, such day off shall be granted in accordance with Section 2 of this Article.
The Employer will, where possible, inform an employee of whether it can grant the request for a particular day off within five (5) days of such request.
Section 8.	Holiday Observance
When a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday. When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday.
Section 9.	Payment Upon Separation
Upon separation for any reason, the employee shall be paid for all accrued holidays.
Section 10.	Holiday Pay/Academic Year Educators (RC-63)
Beginning with the academic school year 1984, permanent, full-time academic year Educators will receive double time cash payment for work performed on six (6) of the holidays designated in Section 1 of this Article which occur during the academic year. Such holidays shall be set forth in the school calendar at the discretion of the Superintendent or his/her designee.
Section 11.	Holiday Work (RC-42 and Site Technicians I and II)
Where some but not all employees are scheduled to work a holiday, the scheduling shall be offered on a seniority rotation basis.
ARTICLE XII
Hours of Work and Overtime
Section 1.	General Provisions RC-6
a)	"Consecutive Days and Hours" The regular hours of work each day shall be consecutive and the work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive days beginning with the time the employee starts work on the first day of his/her work week.
b)	"Overtime Payment" Full-time employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee's straight time hourly rate for all time worked outside of their normal work hours and/or work days up to sixteen (16) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. For hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) in a twenty-four (24) hour period, employees shall be paid double time.
c)	"Compensatory Payment" Hours worked in excess of the below specified hours but less than forty (40) shall not be compensated, provided that for such time so worked, compensatory overtime shall be accrued at the rate equal to the time so worked and compensatory time off shall be granted by the Employer within the fiscal year earned at a time convenient to the employee consistent with the operating needs of the Employer, and if not so granted or taken, it shall be liquidated in cash before the end of the fiscal year in which earned.
Correctional Officers..................38	3/4 hours
Employees in other position classifications except Youth Counselors, Youth Supervisors and Dietary employees in Juvenile Facilities.........37 1/2 hours
d)	"Work Day and Work Week"
(i)	Correctional Officers - 38 3/4 hours consisting of five (5) consecutive days of 8 1/4 consecutive hours, including an unpaid lunch period of thirty (30) minutes per day and a roll-call period of fifteen (15) minutes per day which shall be paid for in accordance with Section 20 of this Article.
(ii)	Employees in other position classifications except Youth Counselors, Youth Supervisors and Dietary employees in Juvenile facilities consisting of five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) consecutive hours, including a
thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period per day.
(iii)	Youth Supervisors, Youth Counselors and Dietary employees position classifications in juvenile facilities - forty (40) hours, consisting of five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours, including a thirty (30) minute paid lunch period per day.
e)	"Lunch Period" Employees who receive an unpaid lunch period and are required to work at their work assignments during such period and who are not relieved, shall have such time counted as hours worked for the purposes of Sections l(b) and l(c) above and shall be compensated at the appropriate compensatory straight or overtime rate, whichever may be applicable.
f)	"Days Off" For employees working within position classifications and at facilities which require continuous coverage, scheduled work days and scheduled days off shall be consecutive, but may fall on any day of the work week.
g)	"Tardiness and Absenteeism" The agency's current practices and policies regarding tardiness and absenteeism shall continue.
Section 2.	General Provisions RC-9
a)	"Consecutive Days and Hours" The regular hours of work each day shall be consecutive and the work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive days of work within regular reoccurring period of 168 hours consisting of seven (7) consecutive 24-hour periods. Exceptions to the above may exist in local supplementary agreements.
b)	"Work Day and Work Week" The normal work day shall be eight (8) hours per day and the normal work week shall be forty (40) hours per week. The present practice with regards to employees working a straight eight (8) hours with a paid half hour lunch period, or working a straight eight (8) hours with an unpaid half hour lunch period, or working a straight eight and one-half hours with a half hour unpaid lunch period, shall continue for the full term of this Agreement and it shall be considered as a forty-hour work week.
c)	"Overtime Payment" Full-time employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee's straight time hourly rate for all time worked outside of their normal work hours
and/or work days up to sixteen (16) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. For hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) in a twenty-four (24) hour period, employees shall be paid double time.
Employees who receive an unpaid lunch period and are not required to work at their work assignments during such period shall not have such time treated as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
d)	"Lunch Period" Employees who receive an unpaid lunch period and are required to work at their work assignments and who are not relieved shall have such time treated as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime and shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate.
e)	"Tardiness and Absenteeism" The agency's current practices and policies regarding tardiness and absenteeism shall continue.
Section 3.	General Provisions RC-14
a)	"The Work Day and the Work Week" The normal work day shall consist of seven and one-half consecutive hours and the normal work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive work days followed by two (2) consecutive days off. Exceptions to the above are subject to local level negotiations. Schedules normally requiring more than seven and one-half hours of work each day shall be negotiated where serious operational problems so dictate. If no agreement is reached, the issue shall be submitted to arbitration. Past practice may continue if required for such work schedules pending agreement or an arbitrator's decision.
b)	"Meal Period" Work schedules shall provide for the work day to be broken at approximately midpoint by an uninterrupted, unpaid meal period of not less than thirty (30) minutes and no more than one (1) hour. However, this shall not preclude work schedules which provide for a paid meal period. Such regularly scheduled paid meal periods shall be treated as hours worked and shall be paid at the appropriate straight or overtime rate, whichever is applicable.
When employees who normally receive an unpaid meal period are required to work during that period and receive no equivalent time off during the same shift at a reasonable alternative time, they shall have such time treated as hours worked and shall be paid at the appropriate straight or overtime
rate, whichever is applicable. Present practices regarding eating while on duty during meal periods shall remain in effect.
c)	"Late Arrival and Unauthorized Absence" There shall be no general policy of docking for late arrival. Employees who are repeatedly late may be docked until the problem has been corrected over a reasonable period. However, this shall not limit the Employer's right to dock for unauthorized absence and/or resort to the disciplinary procedure of this Agreement for excessive late arrival and/or unauthorized absence. The threshold between late arrival and unauthorized absence is one hour after the starting time.
d)	"Overtime Payment" Full-time employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee's straight time hourly rate for all time worked outside of their normal work hours and/or work days up to sixteen (16) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. For hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) in a twenty-four (24) hour period, employees shall be paid double time.
e)	"Overtime Procedure" Overtime shall be distributed as equally as possible among the employees who normally perform the work in the position classification in which the overtime is needed and within a work unit as mutually agreed to between the parties. It shall be distributed on a rotating basis among such employees in accordance with seniority, the most senior employee having the least number of overtime hours, regardless of whether the employee is fulltime or part-time, being given first opportunity. If all employees available to work the overtime hours decline the opportunity, the Employer shall assign the overtime in reverse seniority order; the least senior employee who has not been previously directed by the Employer to work overtime shall be directed to work the hours until all employees have been required to work at which time the process shall repeat itself.
For the purpose of equalizing the distribution of overtime, an employee who is offered but declines an overtime assignment shall be deemed to have worked the hours assigned.
New and temporarily assigned employees shall be credited with the average overtime hours worked by all employees in the unit as of the date of hire or temporary assignment.
Section 4.	General Provisions RC-28 (except Site Technicians I and II)
a)	"The Work Day and the Work Week" The work week is defined as a regularly reoccurring period of 168 hours consisting of seven (7) consecutive 24-hour periods. The normal work day shall consist of seven and one-half (7 1/2) consecutive hours and the normal work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive days followed by two (2) consecutive days off except for rotating schedules. Schedules normally requiring more than seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours of work each day shall be negotiated where serious operational problems so dictate. If no agreement is reached, the issue shall be submitted to arbitration. Past practice may continue for such work schedules pending agreement or an arbitrator's decision. Those facilities maintaining rotating schedules shall not be obligated to pay for overtime for those regular work schedules that provide for six (6) or more consecutive days of work, unless employees on such schedules exceed forty (40) hours in the work week.
b)	"Regular Work Schedule" All employees (except intermittent and per diem employees) shall be scheduled to work on a regular work schedule and each work shift shall have a regular starting and quitting time.
c)	"Meal Period" Work schedules shall provide for the work day to be broken at approximately midpoint by an uninterrupted, unpaid meal period of not less than thirty (30) minutes and no more than one (1) hour. However, this shall not preclude work schedules which provide for a paid meal period. Those employees who receive an unpaid meal period and are required to work at their work assignments and are not relieved for such meal periods shall have such time treated as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime and shall be paid at the appropriate straight time or overtime rate, whichever may be applicable.
d)	"Overtime Payment" Full-time employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee's straight time hourly rate for all time worked outside of their normal work hours and/or work days up to sixteen (16) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. For hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) in a twenty-four (24) hour period, employees shall be paid double time. Compensation shall be in cash at the appropriate rate unless mutually agreed otherwise.
e)	"Overtime Procedure" Overtime shall be distributed as equally as possible among the employees who normally perform the work in the position classification in which the overtime is needed and within a work unit as mutually agreed to locally between the parties. It shall be distributed on a rotating basis among such employees in accordance with seniority, the most senior employee having the least number of overtime hours, regardless of whether the employee is full-time or part-time, being given first opportunity. If all employees available to work the overtime hours decline the opportunity, the Employer shall assign the overtime in reverse seniority order; the least senior employee who has not previously been directed by the Employer to work overtime shall be assigned to work the hours until all employees have been required to work at which time the process shall repeat itself.
For the purpose of equalizing the distribution of overtime, an employee who is offered but declines an overtime assignment shall be deemed to have worked the hours assigned.
New and temporarily assigned employees shall be credited with the average overtime hours worked by all employees in the unit as of the date of hire or temporary assignment.
f)	"Late Arrival and Unauthorized Absence" There shall be no general policy of docking for late arrival. Employees who are repeatedly late may be docked until the problem has been corrected over a reasonable period. However, this shall not limit the Employer's right to dock for unauthorized absence and/or resort to the disciplinary procedure of this Agreement for excessive late arrival and/or unauthorized absence. The threshold between late arrival and unauthorized absence is one hour after the starting time.
Section 5.	General Provisions RC-42 and Site Technicians I
and II
a)	"The Work Day and the Work Week" The work week is defined as a regularly reoccurring period of 168 hours consisting of seven (7) consecutive 24-hour periods. The normal work day shall consist of seven and one-half (7 1/2) consecutive hours and the normal work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive days followed by two (2) consecutive days off except for rotating schedules. Schedules normally requiring more than seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours of work each day shall be negotiated
where serious operational problems so dictate. If no agreement is reached, the issue shall be submitted to arbitration. Past practice may continue for such work schedules pending agreement or an arbitrator's decision. Those work sites maintaining rotating schedules shall not be obligated to pay for overtime for those regular work schedules that provide for six (6) or more consecutive days of work, unless employees on such schedules exceed 37 1/2 hours in the work week.
b)	"Regular Work Schedule" All employees (except intermittent and per diem employees) shall be scheduled to work on a regular work schedule and each work shift shall have a regular starting and quitting time. However, where agency practice provides for seasonal work schedule changes, those changes may be implemented with a minimum five (5) work day notice to the Union and the employees. Such seasonal work schedule changes shall not be subject to negotiation with the Union. Subject to the operating needs of the agency, the Employer will attempt to utilize as many seasonal employees as possible on Saturdays and Sundays to allow regular employees to be scheduled off.
c)	"Meal Period" Work schedules shall provide for the work day to be broken at approximately midpoint by an uninterrupted, unpaid meal period of not less than thirty (30) minutes and no more than one (1) hour. However, this shall not preclude work schedules which provide for a paid meal period. Those employees who receive an unpaid meal period and are required to work at their work assignments and are not relieved for such meal periods shall have such time treated as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime and shall be paid at the appropriate straight time or overtime rate, whichever may be applicable.
d) "Overtime Payment" Full-time employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee's straight time hourly rate for all time worked outside of their normal work hours and/or work days up to sixteen (16) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. For hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) in a twenty-four (24) hour period, employees shall be paid double time. Compensation shall be in cash at the appropriate rate unless mutually agreed otherwise.
e)	"Overtime Procedure" Overtime shall be distributed as equally as possible among the employees who normally perform the work in the position classification in which the overtime is needed and within a work unit as mutually agreed
to locally between the parties. It shall be distributed on a rotating basis among such employees in accordance with seniority, the most senior employee having the least number of overtime hours, regardless of whether the employee is full-time or part-time, being given first opportunity. If all employees available to work the overtime hours decline the opportunity, the Employer shall assign the overtime in reverse seniority order; the least senior employee who has not previously been directed by the Employer to work overtime shall be assigned to work the hours until all employees have been required to work at which time the process shall repeat itself.
For the purpose of equalizing the distribution of overtime, an employee who is offered but declines an overtime assignment shall be deemed to have worked the hours assigned.
f)	"Late Arrival and Unauthorized Absence" There shall be no general policy of docking for late arrival. Employees who are repeatedly late may be docked until the problem has been corrected over a reasonable period. However, this shall not limit the Employer's right to dock for unauthorized absence and/or resort to the disciplinary procedure of this Agreement for excessive late arrival and/or unauthorized absence. The threshold between late arrival and unauthorized absence is one hour after the starting time.
Section 6.	General Provisions RC-10, RC-62 and RC-63
a)	"The Work Week" The work week is defined as a regularly reoccurring period of 168 hours consisting of seven (7) consecutive 24-hour periods. An RC-62 and RC-63 employee's normal work week shall consist of not more than forty (40) hours. Past practice at work locations requiring less than forty (40) hours in a normal work week may continue. The normal work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive days of work followed by two (2) consecutive days off except for rotating schedules consisting of six (6) or more consecutive days of work. Such rotating schedules may be maintained without the payment of overtime unless the employee works in excess of his/her normal work week within the measuring period used.
RC-10 only
An RC-10 employee's normal work week shall consist of not more than thirty-seven and one-half (37
1/2) hours. Past practice at work locations requiring less than thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) hours in a normal work week may continue. The normal work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive days of work followed by two (2) consecutive days off.
b)	"Regular Work Schedule" Where current practice so provides, employees (except intermittent and per diem) shall be scheduled to work on a regular work schedule and each work shift shall have a regular starting and quitting time.
c)	"Meal Period" Where current practice so provides or otherwise practicable, work schedules shall provide for the work day to be broken at approximately mid-point by an uninterrupted, unpaid meal period of not less than thirty (30) minutes and no more than one (1) hour. However, this shall not preclude work schedules which provide for a paid meal period. Those employees who receive an unpaid meal period, and are required to work at their work assignments and are not relieved for such meal periods shall have such time treated as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime and shall be paid at the appropriate rate.
d)	"Overtime Payment"
(i)	Employees who are authorized and do work in excess of their normal work week in any one scheduled period as defined in sub-section (a), shall receive overtime credit for such hours. Procedures for the authorization of overtime shall be established by each agency within fifteen (15) calendar days from the effective date of this Agreement. Overtime in less than fifteen (15) minutes increments shall not be accrued.
(ii)	Payment for such overtime credit shall be in cash or compensatory time at the discretion of the Employer. If such compensatory time request is granted, it shall be taken within the fiscal year it was earned at a time convenient to the employee and consistent with the operating needs of the Employer. However, accrued compensatory time not scheduled or taken by the end of the fiscal year shall be liquidated and paid in cash at the rate it was earned. Notwithstanding the above, employees who schedule compensatory time off by June 1st of the fiscal year shall be allowed to use such time through August 1st of the following fiscal year.
(iii)	Full-time employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee's straight time hourly rate for all time worked outside of their normal work hours and/or work days up to sixteen (16) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period. For hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) in a twenty-four (24) hour period, employees shall be paid double time.
RC-10 only
(1)	Employees who are authorized and do work in excess of their normal work week in any one scheduled period as defined herein, shall receive credit for such hours as enumerated in this Section.
(2)(i) Hours from thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) to forty (40) in the work week:
The employee and his/her immediate supervisor shall make every reasonable effort to avoid having the employee's weekly hours exceed thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) hours in the work week by adjusting hours within the work week at the discretion of the immediate supervisor, provided however, the employee's choice of taking the time off shall be considered by the immediate supervisor and shall not be unreasonably denied. In the event the employee's schedule cannot be altered to avoid working hours in excess of thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) but not more than forty (40) in the work week, payment for overtime hours worked between thirtyseven and one-half (37 1/2) but not more than forty (40) shall be in compensatory time. Compensatory time off shall be scheduled by the Employer with due consideration given to the requests of the employee and the operating needs of the Agency. However, accrued compensatory time not scheduled or taken by the end of the fiscal year shall be liquidated and paid in cash at the rate it was earned. Notwithstanding the above, employees who schedule compensatory time off by June 1st of the fiscal year shall be allowed to use such time through August 1st of the following fiscal year.
(ii)	Hours worked in excess of forty (40) in the work week:
The payment of overtime hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in the work week shall be in cash or compensatory time at the Employer's discretion.
Compensatory time off shall be scheduled with due consideration given to the requests of the employee. However, accrued compensatory time not scheduled or taken by the end of the fiscal year shall be liquidated and paid in cash at the rate it was earned.
Overtime in excess of forty (40) hours in the work week shall be earned at the employee's straight time rate. Overtime as authorized by the Employer in excess of thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) hours in the work week and assigned on Saturday or Sunday shall be earned at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's straight time hourly rate.
e)	"Overtime Procedure" Where practicable, overtime shall be distributed as equally as possible among employees who normally perform the work in the position classification in which the overtime is needed and within a work unit, regardless of whether the employee is full-time or part-time, as mutually agreed locally by the parties. If current practice provides for a method for the equal distribution of overtime, it shall be maintained unless the parties agree otherwise.
(RC-10 only)
Where practicable, and when the work is not so individualized so as to preclude same, overtime shall be distributed as equally as possible among employees who normally perform the work in the position classification in which the overtime is needed and within a work unit, regardless of whether the employee is full-time or part-time.
f)	"Late Arrival and Unauthorized Absence" There shall be no general policy of docking for late arrival. Employees who are repeatedly late may be docked until the problem has been corrected over a reasonable period. However, this shall not limit the Employer's right to dock for unauthorized absence and/or resort to the disciplinary procedure of this Agreement for excessive late
arrival and/or unauthorized absence. The threshold between late arrival and unauthorized absence is one hour after the starting time.
g.	"Consecutive Work Hours" (RC-10 only) The regular hours of work each day shall be consecutive except that they may be interrupted by a meal period.
Section 7.	Hours of Work and Overtime - Aircraft Pilots Only (RC-62)
a)	The Work Week
The normal work week shall be Sunday through Saturday and shall average five (5) days of work within a regular reoccurring period of 168 hours consisting of seven (7) consecutive 24-hour periods. For purposes of calculation a normal work week shall consist of fortyeight (48) hours and no less than thirty seven and one-half (37 1/2) hours.
b)	Meal Period
Where current practice so provides and work hours so dictate the work day shall be broken approximately midpoint by an uninterrupted, paid meal period of not less than thirty (30) minutes and not more than one (1) hour. However, this shall not preclude work schedules which provide for an unpaid meal period. Those employees who receive an unpaid meal period and are required to work at their work assignments and are not subsequently relieved for such meal periods shall have such time treated as hours worked for the computing of overtime and shall be paid at the appropriate overtime rate.
c)	Overtime Payment
(i)	Employees who are authorized and who are accountable to the Employer with the exception of stand-by (as enumerated in Section 22) in excess of one hundred sixty (160) hours during a twenty-eight (28) day cycle shall receive overtime credit of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee's straight time hourly rate for such hours. Procedures for the authorization of overtime shall be established by the agency within thirty (30) days from the effective date of this Agreement. Overtime in less than one-half (1/2) hour increments shall not be accrued.
(ii)	Payment for such overtime credit shall be in cash or compensatory time at the discretion of the Employer. If such compensatory time request is granted, it shall be taken within the fiscal year it was earned at a time convenient to the employee and consistent with the operating needs of the Employer. However, accrued compensatory time not scheduled or taken by the end of the fiscal year shall be liquidated and paid in cash at the rate it was earned. Notwithstanding the above, employees who schedule compensatory time off by June 1st of the fiscal year shall be allowed to use such time through August 1st of the following fiscal year.
d)	Overtime Procedure. Where practicable, overtime shall be distributed as equally as possible among employees who normally perform the work in the position classification in which the overtime is needed and within a work unit, regardless of whether the employee is full-time or part-time, as mutually agreed locally by the parties. If current practice provides for a method for the equal distribution of overtime, it shall be maintained unless the parties agree otherwise.
e)	Late Arrival and Unauthorized Absence. There shall be no general policy of docking for late arrival. Employees who are repeatedly late may be disciplined until the problem has been corrected over a reasonable period. However, this shall not limit the Employer's right to dock for unauthorized absence and/or resort to the disciplinary procedure of this Agreement for excessive late arrival and/or unauthorized absence. The threshold between late arrival and unauthorized absence is one hour after the starting time.
f)	This Section shall not be construed as a guarantee or limitation on the number of hours per day or work week.
Section 8.	No Guarantee or Limitation
This Article shall not be construed as a guarantee or limitation on the number of hours per day or work week. The regular hours of work each day shall be consecutive except that they may be interrupted by a meal period.
Section 9.	Overtime Payments (All Units except RC-10)
Full-time employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee's straight time hourly rate for all time worked outside of their normal work hours and/or work days up to sixteen (16) hours in a day. For hours worked in excess of sixteen (16) in a day, employees shall be paid double time. However, a full-time employee will not be eligible for pay at the applicable overtime rate for all time worked outside of the employee's normal work hours and/or work days, pursuant to this Article, only under the following circumstances:
a.	If a full-time employee is charged with a UA (unexcused absence) or XA (unexcused-unreported absence), on a normal workday and the employee works on his/her day off during that same work week -- the employee will receive overtime at the straight time hourly rate for time worked on his/her day off until the employee has worked in excess of thirty-seven and one-half hours in RC-14, RC-28, RC-42; and in excess of the employee's normal work week for RC-6, RC- 9 and RC-62/63.
b.	If a full-time employee takes a day off without pay for which he/she is not eligible for a Leave under Article VI, Section 3 or Article XXIII of the Master Contract, for a normal workday and the employee works on his/her day off during that same work week -- the employee will receive overtime at the straight time hourly rate for time worked on his/her day off until the employee has worked in excess of thirty-seven and one-half hours in RC-14, RC-28, RC-42; and in excess of the employee's normal work week for RC-6, RC-9 and RC-62/63.
c.	If a full-time employee was suspended without pay on a normal workday and the employee works on his/her day off during that same work week -- the employee will receive overtime at the straight time hourly rate for time worked on his/her day off until the employee has worked in excess of thirty-seven and one-half hours in RC-14, RC-28, RC-42; and in excess of the employee's normal work week for RC-6, RC-9 and RC-62/63.
d.	Suspension time will not be imposed in such a manner so as to avoid the payment of overtime pursuant to this Article.
e.	Overtime rotation procedures shall not be affected by these procedures. The normal overtime rotation will not be changed or altered among eligible employees in order to assign overtime hours to employees who would not be eligible for overtime pursuant to Paragraph 2 of this Section.
Section 10.	Inconvenience Pay for Work Beyond Five Days on Day Off Rotation Schedules
In the event of a day off rotation schedule only, an employee who works more than five (5) days in any given seven (7) day period even though it overlaps work weeks, shall be paid inconvenience premium pay of 50 cents per hour above the regular rate of pay on each of those days worked over five (5) days within said seven-day period. Inconvenience premium pay will increase to $1.00 per hour effective July 1, 2001, and to $1.50 per hour effective July 1, 2002. There shall be no double payment or calculation of the same days within a given seven-day period. Provided, however, if an employee works more than the normally scheduled hours or days as provided in this Agreement, said employee shall be paid at the overtime rate of time and one-half for said work (e.g., in any work week that an employee works on a day or hours he/she would normally be off under the days off rotation schedule, said employee shall be paid overtime at time and one-half for said time worked, provided he/she worked the normally scheduled hours or days or was off on a day which counts as the time worked as set forth in Section 13).
Where such has not previously been specified, the parties shall meet within thirty (30) days at each of the facilities to incorporate into the supplemental agreement the specific days in each rotation scheduled for which the inconvenience premium pay shall be paid. In those locations where a 6-2 schedule exists, the 6th day shall be the day in which the premium is paid, whenever said 6th day occurs.
Section 11.	Rest Periods
There shall be two (2) rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes each during each regular shift; one during the first half of the shift and one during the second half of the shift, except that in RC-6 such rest periods shall only be provided where it is the current practice. Where a single thirty (30) minute break has been the past practice and continues to be mutually agreeable, it shall be scheduled per the past practice.
Employees working a four (4) day work week approved under Personnel Rule 303.300 shall receive two (2) rest periods of twenty (20) minutes each during each regular shift; one during the first half of the shift and one during the second half of the shift.
Employees shall have the right to leave the work site during such period, except for RC-6 bargaining unit employees, and except that RC-9 employees shall not leave the facility ground.
(RC-10) The current practices regarding rest periods shall continue.
The Employer will allow nursing mothers a private room and flexibility with respect to scheduling lunch and break periods for the purpose of breast feeding or pumping breast milk, whenever possible.
Section 12.	Flexible Hours
It is the policy of the State to implement to the fullest extent practicable the flex-time positions authorized by P.A. 79-558. An Agency's flex-time positions shall be divided as equitably as possible. Where more employees request flex-time than positions available, the employee who demonstrates the greatest personal need shall have preference. Should these employees display the same or similar personal need(s), the flex-time schedule shall be granted based upon seniority. The scheduling of flex-time shall be by mutual arrangement between the employee and his/her supervisor.
Section 13.	Four Day Work Week
In lieu of the normal work week as defined in Section 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this Article, an employee may request a work week composed of four (4) consecutive days of relatively equal length, followed by three (3) consecutive days off, or reasonable variations thereof. If the agency determines its own needs may appropriately be met by such requested schedule, it may request approval of any such schedule under Personnel Rule 303.300. Nothing herein precludes the parties from negotiating four (4) day work week schedules in Agency or Local Supplementary Agreements.
The negotiation of nine (9) day work schedules shall be appropriate for agency and/or local supplementary negotiations in those instances where supplemental agreements contain such provisions. In other instances the parties may by mutual agreement negotiate nine (9) day work schedules in agency and/or local supplementary agreements.
Section 14.	Intermittent Schedules
Intermittent classifications shall be utilized only for job assignments that are characterized by periodic, irregular or seasonal scheduling.
Section 15.	Compensatory Time (RC-6, 9, 14, 28 and 42)
Overtime shall be paid in cash unless an employee requests compensatory time off, at the rate it was earned either straight time or at the applicable overtime rate. Such request shall be considered and granted or denied at the discretion of the Employer. The employee shall make his/her choice known to the Employer not later than the end of the work week in which the overtime was earned.
If such compensatory time request is granted, it shall be taken within the fiscal year it was earned at a time convenient to the employee and consistent with the operating needs of the Employer.
Accrued compensatory time not used by the end of the fiscal year in which it was earned shall be liquidated and paid in cash at the rate it was earned. Notwithstanding the above, employees who schedule compensatory time off by June 1st of the fiscal year shall be allowed to use such time through August 1st of the following fiscal year (except RC-6 and RC-9).
(RC-10) Compensatory time off shall be at the rate it was earned either straight or time and one-half whichever is applicable.
Section 16.	Time Off
Time off for any holidays or accumulated holidays shall be counted as time worked for overtime computation.
Section 17.	Overtime Scheduling (RC-6 and 9)
Employees shall work overtime when overtime is required. In RC-6 and 9, overtime assignments shall be made in accordance with the following procedure:
a)	"Overtime Assignment" Overtime shall be assigned by seniority in the position classifications regularly assigned to the performance of the work and by designated units, i.e., ward, program, work location, facility, etc., mutually agreed to at the facility level.
b)	"Equalization" The initial distribution of voluntary overtime will be based on seniority. After the initial distribution, it shall be distributed and equalized on a rotating basis to those employees having the least amount of overtime, regardless of whether the employee is full-time or part-time. After the initial distribution seniority prevails only in cases of ties.
An employee by written notice to the Employer may waive his/her right to be offered overtime assignments and shall not be included in the overtime rotation. Such waiver, however, shall not exclude the employee from any possible mandatory overtime schedule. Once on waiver, an employee may not change his/her status except after a three (3) month period.
Overtime work offered but refused shall be recorded and given equal consideration as overtime actually worked in regards to eligibility for future overtime assignments.
c)	"Overtime Notification"
(i)	If the Employer has reasonable advance notice of an employee's absence which causes a full shift overtime assignment, or if overtime is for a full shift for other reasons, such overtime assignments shall be equalized and offered among all employees in the appropriate position classification within the agreed unit.
If, after a reasonable attempt, an employee cannot be contacted for overtime, the next eligible employee shall be contacted. However, the employee by-passed shall not be credited with any hours worked.
(ii)	However, if reasonable advance notice was not forthcoming and/or overtime is for a period less than a full shift, such overtime assignment shall be equalized and offered to those employees already at work on that shift whose work schedule shall be extended by such assignment.
d)	"Employees Entering Overtime Unit" When the name of an employee becomes eligible for overtime in a unit, he/she shall be credited with the average of the total hours of the group as of the effective date he/she enters a unit.
e)	"Temporary Assignment Overtime" In the event an employee is temporarily assigned to a different classification for a period exceeding five (5) consecutive work days he/she shall be credited with the average number of hours of the employees in that classification in the unit on the effective date of change, for the purpose of overtime distribution.
Upon his/her return to his/her regular position classification, he/she shall be credited with his/her past number of hours plus the credited hours from his/her temporary assignment.
f)	(1) "Voluntary Overtime Beyond Rotation Unit" If all employees in an equalizing group are offered overtime and refuse, then prior to forcing an employee to work such assignment, the Employer may assign such overtime to an employee, or employees not in the equalizing group who volunteered for such assignment.
The Employer is not required to solicit, offer, or use employees who volunteered for overtime prior to assigning overtime on a mandatory basis, or be bound by Section 17(b) above, with regards to the Section listed below.
If more than one (1) employee volunteers, overtime shall be distributed in the following priority:
(i)	Employees in the same classification that the work is to be performed but in a different equalization area.
(ii)	Employees in the same classification series.
(iii)	Employees in the same bargaining unit.
(iv)	Employees in a different AFSCME bargaining unit.
(v)	Employees in none of the above.
(2)"Voluntary Overtime Beyond Rotation Unit" -Department of Human Services, Division of Disability and Behavioral Health Services Only. If all employees in an equalizing group are offered overtime and refuse, then prior to forcing an employee to work such assignment, the Employer shall assign such overtime to an employee, or employees not in the equalizing group who volunteered for such assignment. At the facility level, the Union and the Employer may, by mutual agreement, opt not to initiate a voluntary overtime system beyond the rotation unit system, in which case paragraph (1), above, will apply.
Procedures for voluntary assignment beyond the rotation unit shall be a subject for facility supplementary negotiations in the Department of Human Services, Division of Disability and Behavioral Health Services only.
g)	"Mandatory Overtime" If all employees refuse a voluntary overtime assignment, mandatory overtime shall be assigned in reverse seniority order, on an assignment, not on number of hours, basis. The least senior employee shall not be assigned the overtime each time all refuse. The first total refusal of overtime will be assigned to the least senior employee, the second refusal to the next least senior employee and so on through the list, up through the fifteenth least senior employee, or fifty (50) percent of those in the equalizing group, whichever is less, at which time the Employer would revert back to the least senior employee again.
The above restrictions shall not be applicable, however, and mandatory overtime may be assigned on a rotating basis up the seniority list in an equalizing group if following such restrictions would cause an employee to be forced to work overtime more than once in a 30-day period.
h)	"Emergencies" Employees shall not be required to work more than two (2) consecutive shifts except in very extreme emergencies and then only after a proper period of paid time for sleep and rest.
This Section may be supplemented by the parties in the Supplementary Negotiations, and shall not be considered a bar to facility agreements to count voluntary overtime against the mandatory rotation.
Section 18.	Overtime Information Provided to the Union
The Union, on a quarterly basis or more frequently if current practice provides, or if the parties mutually agree, shall be given a list of the overtime hours worked, the employees offered overtime, the employees directed to work overtime, the employees who worked overtime and the number of hours each employee so worked. The procedure described herein shall apply except in extraordinary situations which preclude its use.
Section 19.	Supplementary Agreements
The parties shall reduce to writing what current scheduling practices prevail with respect to the length of the normal work week, starting and quitting times, days off, shifts or the rotation thereof. Thereafter, where changes in schedules affecting bargaining unit employees are warranted by programmatic or operational need, the Employer shall notify the Union and, upon timely request, negotiate with it concerning such changes. Such negotiations shall be for ninety (90) days, at which time either party may move
the matter to arbitration pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding entitled "Special Grievances".
Disputes over such changes being made for programmatic or operational needs shall be subject to Article V (Expedited Procedure). Except in RC-10, if emergency situations so dictate, temporary work schedule changes may be implemented by the Employer pending final resolution of the dispute. Changes for reasons other than programmatic or operational needs may be made only by mutual agreement.
Section 20.	Roll-Call Pay
Correctional Officers and other employees required both to stand roll-call and remain at the facility beyond eight (8) hours per day for such roll-call shall be paid for all such time over and above their regular salary at their straight time rate. An employee required to stand roll-call shall declare that he/she receive all roll-call compensation as compensatory time or cash. Such declaration will remain in effect unless changed by the employee prior to July 1st of each subsequent fiscal year.
Section 21.	Call-Back Pay
Any employee called back to work outside of his/her regularly scheduled shift or on his/her scheduled days off shall be paid a minimum of two (2) hours pay at the applicable rate. Work schedules will not be changed because of call-back time in order to avoid overtime or straight time pay. If the employee has been called back to take care of an emergency, the Employer shall not require the employee to work for the entire two (2) hour period by assigning the employee extra non-essential work.
Section 22.	Stand-By Pay
An employee is entitled to stand-by pay if he/she is required by the Employer to be on stand-by; that is, to keep the Employer informed of his/her whereabouts on off-duty time and to be available for possible recall for work, either on a day the employee was not scheduled to work or for a period of time after completing the employee's work day. An employee entitled to stand-by pay under this Section shall receive four (4) hours pay at the applicable rate for each day or portion thereof of stand-by whether required to work or not. An employee who is required by the Employer to be on standby for New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July 4th, Labor Day, Christmas or Thanksgiving Day is entitled to six (6) hours pay. Provided, however, such employee shall not receive stand-by pay if he/she was not available upon call by the Employer during such stand-by
time or did not keep the Employer informed of his/her whereabouts.
Current CMS practices providing for a volunteer response program, whereby employees are not required to be on stand-by, but who perform work via telephone during their normal off hours shall continue to be paid a minimum of one hour’s pay.
(RC-10 only) In the event the Employer initiates or seeks to initiate a Stand-by procedure (which shall be defined as a requirement to keep the Employer informed of his/her whereabouts on off-duty time and to be available for possible recall for work, either on a day the employee was not scheduled to work or for a period of time after completing the employee's work day), the parties shall negotiate the impact of such decision.
Section 23.	Daylight Savings Time
Employees working during the shift when Daylight Savings Time changes to Standard Time will receive the appropriate rate of premium pay for the extra hour worked. However, when Standard Time changes to Daylight Savings Time, employees will be allowed to use accumulated benefit time, excluding sick leave, to cover the one (1) hour reduction in work time.
ARTICLE XIII
Insurance, Pension, Employee Assistance and Indemnification
Section 1.	Health Insurance
During the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall continue in effect, and the employees shall enjoy the benefits, rights and obligations of the Group Insurance Health and Life Plan applicable to all Illinois State employees pursuant to the provisions of the State Employees Group Insurance Act of 1971 as amended by P.A. 90-65 and as amended or superseded. Employee Health Care Benefits shall be as set forth in Appendix A of this Agreement.
Section 2.	HMO's
In accordance with the provisions of Federal law and the regulations thereunder, if applicable, the Employer shall make available the option of membership in qualified health maintenance organizations to employees and their eligible dependents who reside in the service area of qualified HMO's. By May 1, the Employer will provide information on HMO's to the Union in sufficient quantities to mail to its members.
Section 3.	Pensions
During the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall continue in effect, and the employees shall enjoy the benefits, rights and obligations of the retirement program provided in the Illinois Pension Code, Illinois Compiled Statutes, Chapter 40 and as amended or superseded.
Effective January 1, 1992, the Employer shall make the employee contribution to the appropriate Retirement System for all employees in an amount equal to the coordinated rate (4% for covered employees; 5.5% for covered employees in the alternative formula), as an offset to a salary increase.
The employee contributions shall be treated for all purposes in the same manner and to the same extent as employee contributions made prior to January 1, 1992, consistent with Article 14 of the Illinois Pension Code.
Effective with retirements on or after January 1, 1998, all bargaining unit members covered by the State Employees Retirement System (SERS) will receive the following pension benefits:
1.	For coordinated SERS employees on the standard formula, a flat formula of 1.67% of Final Average Salary (FAS) per year of service.
2.	For non-coordinated SERS employees on the standard formula, a flat formula of 2.2% of Final Average Salary (FAS) per year of service. Effective July 1, 2000, for those employees enrolled in the SERS, with past service under the TRS as State Educators, the State will pay the cost of upgrading their past TRS service to the 2.2% TRS formula.
3.	For employees eligible to receive a pension under the SERS Alternative Formula, a pension based on the higher of the Final Average Salary (FAS), or the rate of pay on the final day of employment.
Effective with retirements on or after January 1, 2001, all bargaining unit members covered by the SERS or TRS will receive the following pension benefits:
1.	Employees on the SERS or TRS standard formula can retire based upon their actual years of service, without penalty for retiring under age 60, when their age and years of service add up to 85 (in increments of not less than one month). Employees eligible to retire under this “Rule of 85” will be entitled to the same annual adjustment provisions as those employees currently eligible to retire below age 60 with 35 or more years of service.
2.	For coordinated SERS employees on the alternative formula, a flat formula of 2.5% per year of service, based on the higher of the Final Average Salary, or the rate of pay on the final day of employment, up to a maximum of 80% of FAS.
3.	For non-coordinated SERS employees on the alternative formula, a flat formula of 3.0% per year of service, based on the higher of the Final Average Salary (FAS), or the rate of pay on the final day of employment, up to a maximum of 80% of FAS.
4.	Coordinated and non-coordinated SERS employees on the alternative formula will make the following additional contributions to the pension system: 1% of compensation effective January 1, 2002; 2% of compensation effective January 1, 2003; and 3% of compensation effective January 1, 2004.
5.	SERS Educators and other employees who work an academic year and are paid only during the academic year,
and not paid on a 12-month basis, shall be credited for such past and/or future service with a full year of SERS service for each academic year.
Effective January 1, 2005, employees shall make half the employee contribution to the appropriate Retirement System in an amount equal to the coordinated rate (2% for covered employees; 2.75% for covered employees in the alternative formula).
Effective January 1, 2006, employees shall make the employee contribution to the appropriate Retirement System in an amount equal to the coordinated rate (4% for covered employees; 5.5% for covered employees in the alternative formula).
Laid off employees, employees on leave for Union office pursuant to Article XXIII, Section 10, or employees who take time off for Union activities pursuant to Article VI, Section 3, shall be allowed to purchase pension credit for the period of such layoff, Union leave or time off for Union business pursuant to the guidelines set forth in the side letter on pension credits.
Section 4.	Retiree Health Insurance
Effective January 1, 1998, for each employee who becomes a new SERS or TRS annuitant and participates in the basic program of group health benefits, the State shall contribute toward the cost of the annuitant’s coverage under the basic program of group health benefits an amount equal to 5% of that cost for each full year of creditable service in either the SERS or the TRS upon which the annuitant’s retirement annuity is based, up to a maximum of 100% for an annuitant with 20 or more years of combined credible service in either the SERS or the TRS. The remainder of the cost of a new SERS annuitant’s coverage under the basic program of group health benefits shall be the responsibility of the annuitant.
No later than May 1 of each calendar year, the Director of Central Management Services shall certify in writing to the Executive Secretary of the State Employees Retirement System the amounts of the Medicare supplement health care premiums and the amounts of the health care premiums for all other retirees who are not eligible for Medicare.
A separate calculation of the premiums based on the actual cost of each health care plan shall be so certified.
The Director of Central Management Services shall provide to the Executive Secretary of the State Employees Retirement System such information, statistics, and other data as he/she may require to review the premium amounts certified by the Director of Central Management Services.
Section 5.	Employee Assistance Program
The Union shall administer an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for all AFSCME represented employees. Management shall refer bargaining unit employees to the PSP program administered by AFSCME.
Section 6.	Indemnification
A.	The parties agree that bargaining unit employees have the right to request representation and indemnification through the Illinois Attorney General's office in the event they are defendants in civil liability suits (including civil contempt) arising out of actions taken or not taken in the course of their employment as State employees. The Attorney General's office shall make the decision to represent and indemnify such employees in accordance with existing statutory provisions and authorization contained therein.
B.	In the event that a Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS) employee is subject to a Rule to Show Cause why he/she should not be held in criminal or civil contempt, DCFS shall provide and pay for representation in the following circumstances:
1.	The Attorney General has declined to appear and defend the action after receiving a timely request to do so; and
2.	DCFS, in its sole discretion, determines that the employee acted properly, and within the scope of his/her employment.
DCFS shall employ an attorney of its choice to appear and defend the employee, and shall pay the employee's court costs and attorney's fees; DCFS shall not pay any fines or other penalties that are assessed against the employee.
The employee shall be required to cooperate with the Department during the course of any litigation of any claim arising under this provision, and the representation provided shall be conditioned upon such cooperation.
If DCFS does not provide representation to an employee subject to a Rule to Show Cause why he/she should not be held in civil contempt and a court or jury subsequently finds that the act or omission of the State employee was within the scope of employment and was not intentional, willful or wanton misconduct, the employee's court costs, litigation expenses and attorneys' fees shall be reimbursed pursuant to Section 2(b) of the State Employee Indemnification Act, to the extent allowable thereunder.
If DCFS does not provide representation to an employee subject to a Rule to Show Cause why he/she should not be held in criminal contempt and a court or jury subsequently finds the employee not guilty and finds that the act or omission of the State employee was within the scope of employment and was not intentional, willful or wanton misconduct, DCFS shall reimburse the employee's court costs, litigation expenses and attorneys' fees to the extent approved by DCFS as reasonable, and to the extent such costs are not otherwise reimbursable pursuant to the State Employee Indemnification Act.
ARTICLE XIV
Temporary Assignment
Section 1.	Temporary Assignment
The Employer may, within the provisions of this Article, temporarily assign an employee to perform the duties of another position classification. The Employer will attempt to assign temporary assignment to the employees in the next lower classification in the series in which the temporary assignment occurs and to equitably distribute such assignments on a rotating basis giving due consideration to seniority and the operating needs of the agencies. Rotation systems mutually agreed to in local level agency supplemental negotiations shall continue. The time limits contained herein shall apply when an employee performs the duties and/or is held accountable for responsibilities not considered a normal part of his/her regular position classification whether or not those duties are those which distinguish a higher level position classification; however, to be eligible for temporary assignment pay the employee must be directed to perform duties or the duty which distinguish the higher level position classification and/or be held accountable for the responsibility of a higher level position classification.
The mere absence of an employee does not automatically entitle another employee to temporary assignment pay unless the employee otherwise qualifies for such pay under the criteria established in this Article.
Section 2.	Payment
An employee temporarily assigned to a position classification in an equal or lower pay grade than his/her permanent position classification shall be paid his/her proper permanent position classification rate. If the employee is temporarily assigned to a position classification having a higher pay grade than his/her permanent position classification, the employee shall be paid as if he/she had received a promotion into such higher pay grade under Article XXXII, Section 2 of this Agreement, subject to Section 4 below. Employees shall not receive temporary assignment pay for paid days off except if the employee is given such assignment for thirty (30) continuous or more days and such days off fall within such period of time and the employee works 75% of the time of the temporary assignment.
Employees who are bi-lingual or have the ability to use Braille and whose job descriptions do not require that they do so shall be paid temporary assignment pay pursuant to this Article and at the rate provided in Article XXXII,
Section 10 of this Agreement when required by the Employer to perform duties requiring such abilities.
Section 3.	Time Limits
The time limits for temporarily filling a position classification will be as listed in this Section and in terms of work days or calendar months. The time limit herein may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
a)	While the Employer posts and fills a job vacancy for a period of sixty (60) days from the date of posting.
b)	While an absent regular incumbent is utilizing sick leave, or accumulated time (vacation, holidays, personal days).
c)	Up to thirty (30) work days in a six (6) calendar month period while a regular incumbent is on disciplinary suspension or layoff.
d)	While a regular incumbent is attending required training classes.
e)	Up to six (6) months while a regular incumbent is on any illness or injury, Union or jury leave of absence.
f)	Up to sixty (60) work days in a twelve (12) month period for other leaves, or where there is temporary change in work load, or other reasonable work related circumstances.
Section 4.	Payments Due
For temporary assignment except those to relieve an employee for a rest period(s) or a meal period, the Employer shall pay the employee the higher rate as set forth in Section 2 above for the full time of such assignment(s). For the purpose of calculation, any temporary assignment of less than one-half day shall be considered one-half day and any temporary assignment of more than one-half but less than a full day shall be considered a full day.
The Employer shall not split duties or rotate or reassign other employees to any specific temporary assignment in order to circumvent the payment provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.	Detailing
The Employer reserves the right to detail bargaining unit employees subject to the following understandings:
a)	Detailing is a temporary transfer of an employee to a work assignment within his/her position classification geographically removed from the employee's normal work site.
b)	Employees shall not be detailed for more than six (6) work weeks in four (4) calendar months, unless otherwise agreed; provided that such limitation shall not apply where there are abrupt and short term increases in unemployment or welfare caseloads, employees in training, disaster, or other extraordinary circumstances beyond the Employer's control. A position shall not be filled by detailing for more than fifteen (15) work weeks. The Union will agree to reasonable extensions where operational needs so dictate. Management reserves the right to make temporary assignments to detailed employees.
c)	Details shall be offered to qualified employees in the order of seniority. If there are no volunteers, detailing shall be rotated among qualified employees in inverse seniority order. (RC-10 only) Subject to the demonstrable operating needs of the Agency, details shall be offered to qualified employees in the order of seniority. If there are no volunteers, detailing shall be rotated among qualified employees in inverse seniority order.
d)	The Employer will attempt to avoid detailing when an assignment will cause an undue hardship on an employee.
Section 6.	Return to Permanent Assignment
When an employee returns from a temporary assignment, he/she shall be allowed reasonable time to catch up, check and integrate the work of his/her regular assignment.
Section 7.	Criteria for Promotion
It is not the Employer's intention to use temporary assignment to favor or specially qualify certain employees for future promotional opportunity (except in RC-10). However, time in temporary assignment, if included on CMS-100B, shall be given appropriate consideration by the Department of Central Management Services.
If the employee who has been temporarily assigned is selected for the posted vacancy, the employee shall have his/her creditable service date adjusted to reflect the first date on which he/she was temporarily assigned without interruption.
Section 8.	Indefinite Assignments
Temporary job assignment changes within the employee's same position classification shall not be of indefinite duration.
ARTICLE XV
Upward Mobility Program
Section 1.	Goals and Priorities
The State of Illinois and AFSCME are committed to improving career advancement opportunities for employees in classifications listed in Schedule A. It is the goal of the State to provide employees with training and promotional opportunities through the Upward Mobility Program.
In the interest of enhancing the ability of employees to qualify for positions targeted in the Upward Mobility Program, the State and AFSCME will: (a) initiate and/or identify training programs to allow career paths; (b) contract for or provide course offerings that satisfy the requirements necessary for career movement; (c) offer prior learning assessment services to assure proper credit to employees for the skills and knowledge they have attained; and (d) publicize, counsel and otherwise encourage employees to pursue career opportunities within the program. Further, the parties agree to seek college credit or continuing education units for courses offered through the Upward Mobility Program.
In order to assist the State in achieving the goals set forth above, an Advisory Committee comprised of an equal number of representatives from the Union and the Employer shall oversee the Program. The Committee's mission shall be to develop recommendations regarding which position classifications are appropriate for training programs contemplated in paragraph 2, to identify the publicity and counseling efforts necessary for implementation, and to identify the providers of services in (a), (b), (c) and (d) above. Targeted position classifications may be within any existing AFSCME bargaining unit or may be classifications which represent a bridge to career advancement outside any AFSCME bargaining unit for AFSCME bargaining unit employees.
Section 2.	Financing
For FY 2005 and FY 2006, the allocation shall be 4.25 million. Prior to July 1, 2006, the parties shall reopen negotiations for the sole purpose of determining the amount of increased funding, if any, for the FY 2007 UMP allocation.
The Upward Mobility Program funds shall be disbursed for the purpose of establishing and implementing training initiatives as outlined in Section 1. It is understood by both the State and Union that the Upward Mobility Program is designed to supplement existing agency training and development programs.
Section 3.	Courses of Instruction
A.	Employees who have completed a counseling program and filed an individual career development plan for a targeted classification shall be entitled to pre-paid tuition (subject to Paragraph B, below) for any approved courses provided at the local educational institutions.
B.	Courses and training programs offered under the auspices of the Upward Mobility Program shall be available at no charge to employees participating in the program subject to the availability of funds and the policy guidelines established by the Committee.
C.	Certified employees who apply to the Upward Mobility Program and are not accepted due to availability of funds shall be placed on a waiting list. Upon application, the employees on the waiting list shall be permitted to take a test for an Upward Mobility Program targeted title pursuant to guidelines established by the Advisory Committee. Employees successfully completing the test shall be granted certificates and placed on the appropriate eligibility list. Employees not passing the test shall remain on the waiting list for entrance into the program.
Section 4.	Certificates
Once a certificate of completion is issued for skills associated with targeted positions under this program, employees shall be placed on a central list from which selection shall take place. Subject to Article XVIII, Section 2 and Article XIX, Section 5 work location priorities, the most senior employee appearing on the list from the agency in which the vacancy occurs shall be selected for the position. If no employee from the agency appears on the list, the most senior employee from all other agencies shall be selected for the position. The Director of Central Management Services, with the advice and consent of the Advisory Committee, shall designate the classifications for which a certificate and/or a credential shall be issued. The Advisory Committee shall review the requirements (credit-hours, proficiency tests, and electives) for such certificates. The certification programs must meet necessary educational standards for accreditation.
Section 5.	Availability of Training
Subject to guidelines adopted by the Director of Central Management Services, with the advice and consultation of the Advisory Committee, participation in training programs will be available on a first come first served basis. Policies granting time off for courses shall
be similarly established, to supplement existing agency policies.
The Advisory Committee will seek to increase accessibility by obtaining providers in various areas of the State, and by providing instructional materials in video and computer disk formats.
Section 6.	Impact on Bargaining Units
It is expressly understood that for the purposes of this program, including the selection of employees for certificated positions, the limits and distinctions between AFSCME bargaining units are hereby waived.
Section 7.	Job Opportunity Information
In order to maximize employee awareness of all job opportunities, the Department of Central Management Services shall maintain a computerized central listing of all available job openings referenced in Section 1 of this Article in agencies subject to the Personnel Code and shall seek to ensure ready access to such information for all employees.
Section 8.	Filling of Vacancies
1)	All permanent vacancies of titles included in the Upward Mobility Program subject to the AFSCME Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be posted pursuant to the contractual procedures as delineated in Article XIX, Sections 1 and 2.
2)	Employees interested in a position within their own agency must bid in accordance with agency work location designations as delineated in Article XIX, Section 5 and specific agency Supplemental Agreements.
3)	Employees will be placed on eligibility lists for their targeted title in designated counties as follows:
a)Employees shall be allowed to select in writing up to three counties of preference for each job title in which they earn a certificate or credential.
b)An employee who has earned a certificate and/or credential will automatically be placed on the Upward Mobility Program eligibility list for that job title at the time he or she indicates the
initial county preferences pursuant to Section 3(a) of this Section.
c)Employees may change county preferences during the life of this Agreement by contacting the Department of Central Management Services, Division of Examining and Counseling in writing to indicate which county(s) they desire to have added or deleted.
d)An employee may, on his or her own initiative, contact an agency to indicate, in writing, a preference beyond the three counties. This written request must be made for a specific position during the posting period and the individual will be treated as though they were on the eligibility list for that position.
4)	Vacancies for promotion to certificate titles will be filled in accordance with Article XV, Section 4. Such selection shall be in the following order of priority:
a)Agency bidders within the work location or facility, whichever is applicable. Employees with a certificate shall be considered and selected on the same basis as other qualified and eligible bidders (pursuant to Article XIX) in the next lower position classification within the position classification series from the bargaining unit in which the vacancy occurs.
b)Agency bidders within the same county as the work location or facility with a certificate unless the supplemental agreement provides otherwise.
c)Agency employees on the Upward Mobility Program eligibility list with a certificate not eligible to bid under Sections 4a and 4b.
d)Employees with a certificate from other agencies on the Upward Mobility Program eligibility list pursuant to Section 3.
e)If no employees are on an Upward Mobility Program eligibility list, such vacancies shall be filled in accordance with Article XIX.
Selection among eligible employees shall be in accordance with Article XVIII, Section 2.
Seniority for targeted positions in bargaining units covered by this agreement shall be determined based upon the definition of seniority for the bargaining unit of the targeted title for agency employees. Seniority for employees of
other agencies shall be their continuous service date. Selection among candidates for positions outside a bargaining unit covered by this agreement shall be in accordance with Article XVIII, Section 2(b).
5)	Filling of vacancies for non-bargaining unit titles shall be filled from the Upward Mobility Program eligibility list first from the agency and then from other agencies in accordance with seniority as applied in Article XVIII, Section 2(b).
6)	Filling of vacancies of credential titles will be filled in accordance with Article XV, Section 4. Such selection shall be in the following order of priority:
a)Credentialed employees bidding on a position, or who are on an appropriate Upward Mobility Program eligibility list within their current bargaining unit, or who are bidding on a position to which they have contractual rights shall be considered and selected on the same basis as other qualified and eligible bidders who are not credentialed employees.
b)Credentialed employees bidding, or who are on an appropriate Upward Mobility Program eligibility list for a position to which they otherwise have no contractual rights, shall be selected before the Employer selects any other applicant who has no contractual rights.
Selection among eligible employees shall be in accordance with Article XVIII, Section 2.
Seniority for targeted positions in bargaining units covered by this agreement shall be determined based upon the definition of seniority for the bargaining unit of the targeted title.
Selection among candidates for positions outside a bargaining unit covered by this agreement shall be in accordance with Article XVIII, Section 2(b).
For the purpose of this Section only, trainee positions which are credential titles shall be considered as part of the same bargaining unit and classification series as the target position for which the trainee title was established.
7)	The employing agency will be responsible for handling waivers of offers of vacancies by eligible employees. A written waiver is required unless the employee refuses to submit such a waiver. In such cases, evidence that the offer
was made and refused, i.e., a certified letter, shall suffice.
An employee may waive his/her right to be considered for positions in an agency(ies); on a shift; in a particular work location(s) or to a particular position.
Section 9.	Upward Mobility Program Policies
Policies of the Upward Mobility Program may be developed, implemented, changed and/or terminated by mutual agreement of the parties subject to Article XXXIV of this Agreement. All policies shall be consistent with this Article XV.
Section 10.	Work Commitment
All employees who target a credential title after July 1, 1994, and receive tuition toward a credential title must fulfill a work commitment of two (2) years in State service from the completion of the most recent course taken as part of a degree program. Any such employees who voluntarily leave State employment prior to fulfilling this commitment, will be responsible at the time of State separation to reimburse the State for tuition and fees paid toward the credential title.
For employees who targeted a credential title prior to July 1, 1994, and are currently working toward that title, the Upward Mobility Program may, upon appeal within each fiscal year and contingent upon available funding, pay fulltime tuition and approved fees if the employees agree in writing to work two (2) years for the State of Illinois following the completion of their degrees or the most recent course taken as part of their degree programs. Any such employees who voluntarily leave State employment prior to fulfilling this commitment, will be responsible at the time of State separation for repaying the program any amounts paid above normal program benefits.
The amount of reimbursement will be prorated on a monthly basis relative to the extent the work commitment is fulfilled. An annual interest rate of 7% will be charged to the amount owed to the State of Illinois beginning 30 days after notification of repayment. The State of Illinois can withhold funds, including, but not limited to, retirement distribution and tax refunds, if payment is not made and will refer seriously past due accounts to a private collection agency.
The Upward Mobility Advisory Committee will determine if payback is required for employees who separate for such reasons as health, layoff, discharge and resignation no reinstatement rights.
Section 11.	Retraining
Employees on layoff status can continue or begin participation in the Upward Mobility Program including being granted an appropriate certificate or credential; being placed on appropriate Upward Mobility Program eligibility list(s); and filling the relevant vacancy if they would otherwise be considered qualified and eligible.
Any eligible employee who does not respond to or accept a written notice to be recalled to the same or equal position classification he/she was laid off from, in a county he/she designated, shall not be allowed to continue participation in the Upward Mobility Program beyond the courses enrolled in at the time the recall notice is issued.
ARTICLE XVI
Demotions
Section 1.	Definition and Procedure
Demotion is assignment of an employee to a vacant position in a position classification having a lower maximum permissible salary or rate than the class from which the demotion was made. It shall be implemented only for inability to perform the work of the classification.
An operating agency may initiate demotion of an employee by filing a written statement of reasons for demotion with the Director of Central Management Services in the form and manner prescribed. Such written statement shall be signed by the head of the operating agency, and shall contain sufficient facts to show just cause for the demotion. No demotion shall become effective without the prior approval of the Director who shall take into consideration the employee's education, experience, length of service, and past performance.
Section 2.	Notification
If the statement of reasons for demotion of an employee is approved by the Director, a copy of the approved statement of reasons for demotion shall be served on the employee by the Director in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the employee's last address appearing in the personnel file and the Union shall also be notified. The effective date shall be no earlier than two (2) weeks after the employee is notified.
Section 3.	Employee Obligations
Upon the effective date, the employee shall report for duty to the position to which demoted and such report shall be without prejudice to grieve.
Section 4.	Salary and Other Benefits of Employee
On the effective date of the demotion, the salary of such employee shall be adjusted to that step of the new classification pay schedule nearest to but less than his/her current rate of pay.
Section 5.	Status of Demoted Employees
A demoted certified employee shall be certified in the position classification to which demoted, and shall not be required to serve a new probationary period; a demoted probationary employee shall serve a new probationary period in the position classification to which he/she is demoted.
ARTICLE XVII
Records and Forms
Section 1.	Attendance Records
The Employer shall maintain accurate, daily attendance records.
An employee shall have the right to review his/her time and pay records on file with the Employer.
Section 2.	Records
All public records of the Employer shall be available for inspection upon written request by the Union.
Section 3.	Undated Forms
No supervisor or other person in a position of authority shall demand or request that an employee sign an undated resignation or any blank form. No employee shall be required to sign such a form. Any such demand shall entitle the employee to immediate appeal to the Director.
Section 4.	Incomplete Forms
Any information placed on a form or any modification or alteration of existing information made on a form subsequent to it having been signed by an employee shall be null and void insofar as it may affect the employee, the employee's position or condition of employment. Any employee required to sign any form prepared pursuant to this Agreement shall be given a copy of it at the time the employee's signature is affixed.
ARTICLE XVIII
Seniority
Section 1.	Definition
Seniority for RC-6 and 9 shall, for the purposes stated in this Agreement, consist of the length of continuous service of an employee with their department in an AFSCME bargaining unit(s), except when a previously excluded position enters a bargaining unit pursuant to labor board procedures, seniority for an employee in that position shall consist of the employee’s total length of service with their department.
Seniority for RC-10, 14, 28, 42, 62 and 63 shall, for the purposes stated in this Agreement, consist of an employee's length of continuous service in an AFSCME bargaining unit(s), except when a previously excluded position enters a bargaining unit pursuant to labor board procedures, seniority for an employee in that position shall consist of the employee’s total length of service, with all Agencies, Boards, or Commissions under the jurisdiction of the Governor since his/her most recent date of hire with the Employer, as defined herein.
For layoff purposes only, if it becomes necessary to break the tie of two or more employees within an agency in RC-10, 14, 28, 42, 62, or 63, such tie-breaking shall be by lottery. Specific procedures shall be negotiated in the Agency Supplementary Agreements. Procedures in RC-6 and 9, and other established practices, shall remain as set forth in the applicable Supplementary Agreements or as established by practice.
Section 2.	Application
a)	For employees in the RC-6, 9 and 10 bargaining units, in all applications for seniority under this Agreement the ability of the employee shall mean the qualifications and ability (including physical fitness) of an employee to perform the required work. Where ability and qualifications to perform the required work are, among the employees concerned, relatively equal, seniority as defined in Section 1 above shall govern.
b)	For employees in the RC-14, 28(except for Site Technicians I and II), 62, and 63 bargaining units in cases of promotion, layoffs, transfers, shift and job assignments, seniority shall prevail unless a less senior employee has demonstrably superior skill and ability to perform the work required in the position classification. Non
merit factors unrelated to work performance shall not be considered.
c)	For employees in the RC-42 bargaining unit and Site Technicians I and II, in cases of promotions, layoffs, transfers, and shift assignments, seniority shall prevail unless a less senior employee has demonstrably superior skill and ability to perform the work required in the position classification. Non-merit factors unrelated to work performance shall not be considered.
The Employer reserves the right to establish bona fide requirements of specialized skills, training, experience and other necessary qualifications that have been set forth in the official position description (CMS-104) or listed as official options in the job specifications at the time of posting or layoff proposal.
Such requirements on the CMS-104 shall relate to permanent job functions of such a nature that could not be learned during the normal orientation period associated with the filling of a vacant position in that position classification.
The Employer agrees to notify the Union at the time of changing current specialized requirements or establishing specialized requirements, for informational purposes only.
The parties agree that positions in all RC-63 classifications and in certain classifications in RC-62 may be subject to the provisions of this Section. RC-62 classifications which the parties contemplate may include positions subject to these provisions are identified by a footnote in Schedule A.
The Employer shall notify the Union of any additional classification(s) it believes may include positions which should be subject to this Section and will negotiate over the necessity for such additional classification(s). Should the parties fail to agree, and the Employer implements the specialized requirements, the Union may grieve the dispute directly to Step 4.
Section 3.	Termination
Seniority shall be terminated when an employee:
a)	Voluntarily resigns, provided that he/she is not re-employed within four (4) calendar days;
b)	Is discharged provided that should the Employer be later found to have acted inappropriately and the
employee is returned to his/her position, his/her seniority shall be reinstated;
c)	Fails to report to work after layoff within five (5) days after he/she has been notified to report to work, unless the employee provides good cause for not so reporting. Such notification shall be sent to the employee's last address as recorded in the employee's official personnel file; and
d)	Is laid off for a period of three (3) years.
Section 4.	Re-Employment
Employees re-employed after termination of employment for any of the reasons in Section 3 shall be considered new probationary employees; except that this Section shall not affect such re-employed employee's right to prior State service credit for vacation entitlement, as provided in Article X, Section 3, or retirement rights, or sick leave rights as provided in Personnel Rule 303.105.
Section 5.	Seniority of CETA Participants
Seniority and continuous service of CETA participants is effective back to the original date of hire. The parties recognize that the federal Comprehensive Employment and Training Act and regulations regarding maintenance-of-effort have the full force of law to the effect that in case of a layoff resulting from the termination of a CETA project or slots, CETA participants must be laid off prior to regular employees. Accordingly, seniority of CETA participants accrues for all purposes from the date of hire, except for the purpose of the layoff procedure. Upon transition into unsubsidized employment, full seniority is extended for that purpose as well.
Section 6.	Certain Seniority Dates
Seniority dates for RC-14, 28, 62 and 63 employees who had, on July 22, 1977, a continuous service date for vacation purposes reflecting time prior to an interruption in service pursuant to Personnel Rule 303.250 and Article X, Section 1 of the 1977-79 contracts, shall be retained.
ARTICLE XIX
Filling of Vacancies
Section 1.	Definition of a Permanent Vacancy
For the purposes of this Article a permanent vacancy is created:
a)	When the Employer determines to increase the work force and to fill the new position(s).
b)	When any of the following personnel transactions take place and the Employer determines to replace the previous incumbent: terminations, transfers, promotions, demotions, and related transactions.
c)	Vacancies filled by master bargaining unit and/or CU-500 employees as a result of demotion or voluntary reduction in lieu of layoff, pursuant to a layoff plan, shall not be considered permanent vacancies for the purpose of this Article or subject to the posting requirements of Section 2 of this Article from the time the agency notifies the Union of layoff pursuant to Article XX, Layoff, or the employee receives official notice of his/her demotion until the effective date of same.
A CU-500 employee who is subject to layoff shall only be offered a vacancy if there are no master bargaining unit employees subject to layoff who exercise their right to such position pursuant to Article XX.
The Union shall receive prior notification of employees who take a transfer or voluntary reduction to avoid layoff.
No vacancy shall be filled in this manner if there are employees on layoff or subject to layoff who have contractual rights to such position.
d)	Vacant positions shall not be considered permanent vacancies for posting purposes in the Agency in which a layoff plan has been established from the time of establishment until the time the layoff plan has been implemented.
A non-AFSCME bargaining unit employee who is demoted or takes a voluntary reduction in lieu of layoff pursuant to the layoff plan, shall only be offered a vacant position if there are no master bargaining unit employees who choose to exercise
their contractual rights to such position after a five (5) work day posting period.
Section 2.	Posting
A.	RC-6, 9, 14, and 28 (except Site Technicians I and II)
Permanent vacancies shall be posted for bid on the Employer's and other appropriate bulletin boards for a period of ten (10) working days. Once a vacancy is posted and employees have submitted bids for the position, the vacancy will not be posted again for a period of ninety (90) days unless all of the original bidders decline the position. Posting in RC-6 and 9 shall be at the facility, and for RC-14 and 28 at all work locations of the agency in the county where the vacancy occurs for a period of ten (10) working days, except that in Cook County in agencies other than the Department of Employment Security, posting shall be by agency region or area, where applicable. The posting procedure may be modified if mutually agreed by the parties on an agency basis.
The Employer will also maintain all job openings in classifications which are listed in Appendix A, in the central list provided for under Article XV, Section 7.
Any bargaining unit employee may bid on a position; however, they must be deemed qualified and eligible in order to be considered for selection. An employee on leave of absence is not considered eligible unless, upon acceptance of the position, the employee is able to commence performing the duties within ten (10) working days of being offered the position. The bid notice shall state the position classification, the shift, the work location and assignment, and the rate of pay for such job. It is understood that the shift, work location or job assignment may be subject to change as a result of the exercise of shift or job assignment preference. The exercise of a shift or job assignment preference does not necessitate reposting unless provided by current agency practice.
Permanent vacancies shall be filled by the application of the provisions of this Article and Article XVIII in the following order of priority:
a)	Job Assignment and shift preference (Job Assignment not applicable in RC-6)
b)	Recall or transfer on layoff
c)	Intra- and Inter-Agency Transfer on Recall - An employee on a recall list shall have the right to transfer to a permanent vacancy in any bargaining unit in the same position classification or other position classification for which he/she is
qualified in the employing agency and other
agencies. The employee is responsible for applying for and/or identifying available vacancies by the close of the posting period for the position(s). Any successful bidder shall be
removed from results in a parties that provision.	the recall list unless the position loss of pay. It is understood by the promotion is not an option under this
d)	Promotion and voluntary reduction
e)
Transfer (except for RC-6 and 9 unless agency supplemental agreement permits)
B.	RC-10, 62 and 63
Permanent vacancies shall be posted for bid on the Employer's and other appropriate bulletin boards for a period of ten (10) working days. Posting shall be at all work locations of the agency in the county where the vacancy occurs for a period of ten (10) working days, except that in Cook County in agencies other than the Department of Employment Security, posting shall be by agency, region or area, where applicable. Once a vacancy is posted and employees have submitted bids for the position, the vacancy will not be posted again for a period of 90 days unless all of the original bidders decline the position. The posting procedure may be modified if mutually agreed by the parties on an agency basis.
The Employer will also maintain all job openings in classifications which are listed in Appendix A, in the central list provided for under Article XV, Section 7.
Any bargaining unit employee may bid on a position; however, they must be deemed qualified and eligible in order to be considered for selection. An employee on leave of absence is not considered eligible unless, upon acceptance of the position, the employee is able to commence performing the duties within ten (10) working days of being offered the position. The Employer reserves the right to post by option and to require bona fide specialized skills, training, experience or other necessary qualifications as set forth in the officially approved CMS-104 or in the job specification. The bid notice shall state the position classification, any specialized skills, training, experience or necessary qualifications, the shift, the work location and assignment and the rate of pay for such job. It is understood that the shift, work location or job assignment may be subject to change as a result of the exercise of shift or job assignment preference. The exercise of a shift or job assignment preference does not necessitate reposting unless provided by current agency practice.
Such requirements on the CMS-104 shall relate to permanent job functions of a nature that could not be learned during the normal orientation period associated with the filling of a vacant position in that position classification.
The parties agree that positions in all RC-10 and RC-63 classifications and in certain classifications in RC-62 may be subject to the provisions of this Section. RC-62 classifications which the parties contemplate may include positions subject to these provisions are identified by a footnote in Schedule A.
The Employer shall notify the Union of any additional classification(s) it believes may include positions which should be subject to this Section, and will negotiate over the necessity for such additional classification(s). Should the parties fail to agree, and the Employer implements the specialized requirements, the Union may grieve the dispute directly to Step 4.
Permanent vacancies shall be filled by the application of the provisions of this Article and Article XVIII in the following order of priority:
a)	Job assignment and shift preference
b)	Recall or transfer on layoff
c)	Intra- and Inter-Agency Transfer on Recall - An employee on a recall list shall have the right to transfer to a permanent vacancy in any bargaining unit in the same position classification or other position classification for which he/she is qualified in the employing agency and other agencies. The employee is responsible for applying for and/or identifying available vacancies by the close of the posting period for the position(s). Any successful bidder shall be removed from the recall list unless the position results in a loss of pay. It is understood by the parties that promotion is not an option under this provision.
d)	Promotion, voluntary reduction and employees in parallel pay grades
e)	Transfer
C.	RC-42 and Site Technicians I and II
Intermittent titles are excluded from the posting process. Permanent vacancies shall be posted for bid on the Employer's and other appropriate bulletin boards for a period of ten (10) working days. Once a vacancy is posted
and employees have submitted bids for the position, the vacancy will not be posted again for a period of 90 days unless all of the original bidders decline the position. Posting shall be at all work locations of the agency in the county where the vacancy occurs. In the Department of Natural Resources it shall be by region for the title of those Site Technician II's assigned to the Regional Hot Shot Crews. Any bargaining unit employee may bid on a position; however, they must be deemed qualified and eligible in order to be considered for selection. An employee on leave of absence is not considered eligible unless, upon acceptance of the position, the employee is able to commence performing the duties within ten (10) working days of being offered the position. The bid notice shall state the position classification, the shift, the work location and the rate of pay for such job.
The Employer will also maintain all job openings in classifications which are listed in Appendix A, in the central list provided for under Article XV, Section 7.
Permanent vacancies shall be filled by the application of the provisions of this Article and Article XVIII in the following order of priority:
a)	Shift preference at the work site (Prior to posting an employee may file a shift request form with the work site supervisor for the purpose of changing shifts in the event of a vacancy. Such request shall be granted pursuant to Article XVIII, and seniority permitting and the resulting vacancy shall be posted for bidding. Employees may not exercise their rights under this provision more than once every six months.),
b)	Recall or transfer on layoff,
c)	Intra- and Inter-Agency Transfer on Recall - An employee on a recall list shall have the right to transfer to a permanent vacancy in any bargaining unit in the same position classification or other position classification for which he/she is qualified in the employing agency and other agencies. The employee is responsible for applying for and/or identifying available vacancies by the close of the posting period for the position(s). Any successful bidder shall be removed from the recall list unless the position results in a loss of pay. It is understood by the parties that promotion is not an option under this provision.
d)	Promotion and voluntary reduction,
e)	Transfer
D.	All Units - Trainee Positions
The Employer shall first post the vacancy for the targeted title. If there are no qualified bidders, the Employer may place a trainee who has satisfactorily completed the training requirements in the targeted position covered by a bargaining unit and such placement shall occur without further posting. Concurrent with the posting of a trainee position for informational purposes, the Employer will post the targeted position in accordance with Article XIX, Section 2. If there are no qualified bidders, the Employer may place a trainee who has satisfactorily completed the training requirements into the targeted position and such placement shall occur without further posting, if the targeted position has the same assignment, days off, and shift as originally posted. If not, the position shall be posted for job assignment purposes only.
E.	Job Assignment/Recall
When vacancies are posted for job assignment and a recall list exists, such positions shall be posted for a period of five (5) working days.
F.	Acceptance of Position
Any bidder who has been selected for a vacancy must make known his/her acceptance within two (2) working days of receiving notice of his/her selection. Failure to accept the position within said time limit shall constitute a waiver of the position.
Section 3.	Job Assignment
A.	RC-9 Only
1)	When a job assignment vacancy is posted and more than one employee within the position classification requests such assignment, consideration shall be given to the employee with the most seniority in the same position classification as posted. If the successful bidder is in a higher semi-automatic in-series title than the semi-automatic in-series position posted, he/she shall retain the higher title.
2)	When a new job assignment is created and more than one employee within the position classification requests such assignment, the most senior employee shall be given first consideration therefor.
3)	When permanent changes in job assignments are made by the Employer at a facility, employees within the position classification affected by the change may exercise their seniority as defined in Article XVIII, Section 2, to remain at their current assignment.
4)	In cases where a job assignment vacancy is filled by job assignment preference the vacancy created as a result of such selection thereafter shall be filled from the original bid list without further posting. If a senior employee turns down the original job assignment bid, his/her name will remain on the original bid list for selection to subsequent vacancies created by the filling of the original job assignment bid.
5)	If the posted vacancy will not result in any employee changing job classification and is just a job assignment posting, the following shall apply:
a)	Once the posted job assignment vacancy is filled from those employees in the same job classification who requested such, there shall be no further posting to fill the vacated assignment unless the filling of such would therefor result in an employee changing job classifications;
b)	Notwithstanding the seniority provisions, the vacated assignment shall be filled by management from available employees in the same job classification except a request for such assignment by the highest seniority employee in the same classification making such request shall be honored by the management.
6)	If the posted vacancy will eventually result in any employee changing job classifications (promotions, etc.), the following shall apply:
a)	If the posted vacancy is filled by a request from an employee in the same job classification from another work assignment, there shall be no additional posting to fill the vacated assignment, unless otherwise agreed on an Agency basis.
b)	Such vacated assignment shall be filled pursuant to Section 5 below from those employees not in the posted classification who bid on the original vacancy.
7)	This Section does not apply to any other bargaining unit except as past practice may provide otherwise.
B.	RC-10, 14, 28, 62 and 63
1)	When a permanent vacancy is posted and more than one (1) employee within the position classification and work location where the vacancy occurs bids the assignment, the most senior employee who bids the assignment shall be assigned the job. Those employees bidding for a position in a lower classification who are in a semiautomatic series, shall retain his/her current position classification unless additional training is required. If additional training is required, the employee shall serve a training period not to exceed six (6) months. Upon successful completion of the training, and a satisfactory performance evaluation, the employee shall return to his/her former title and pay. In cases where a job assignment vacancy is filled by job assignment preference the vacancy created as a result of such selection thereafter shall be filled from the original bid list without further posting. If a senior employee turns down the original job assignment bid, his/her name will remain on the original bid list for selection to subsequent vacancies created by the filling of the original job assignment bid.
(RC-10 Only) Job assignment vacancies shall be defined within an Agency (such as but not limited to, Regulatory or Enforcement within the Air, Land, Water, or Public Water in EPA; and Benefits, Administrative, and Board of Review in IDES).
2)	When permanent changes in job assignments are made by the Employer, employees within the classification affected may exercise their seniority to retain their current assignment. These transactions do not necessitate the posting procedures of Section 2 above.
3)	Where the introduction of substantially different equipment to the work place would result in the significant alteration of duties for current employees, the assignments so created shall be posted and filled by seniority as under subsection (1) above.
C.	Any employee who successfully exercises rights under Section 3, "Job Assignment", shall be prohibited from again exercising those rights for a period of twelve (12) months (RC-10 for a period of twenty-four (24) months) unless the employee is subsequently displaced from the assignment for which he or she bid.
D.	This Section shall not apply to employees who bid while on original and promotional probationary periods.
E.	Employees shall be allowed to bid for posted vacancies that carry different days off subject to the procedures set forth in this Section. Such bids shall be considered with other job assignment bids.
Section 4.	Shift Preference
A.	RC-14, 28, 62 and 63
1)	When permanent changes in shift assignments are made, employees shall be entitled to exercise seniority to retain their shift assignments. A permanent change in an employee's shift assignment shall be made effective on the first day of the employee's new work week.
2)	Within a period of one (1) calendar month each year, which shall be determined at agency/facility supplemental negotiations, employees within a work location shall have an opportunity to exercise seniority for shift assignments within each work location. An employee shall be eligible to exercise seniority pursuant to this section for any starting or quitting time that is different from the employee’s current work schedule provided such schedule is set forth in the appropriate supplemental agreement.
B.	RC-6 and 9
1)	Absent any emergency operating needs of the Employer, a permanent change in an employee's normal shift assignment shall commence the first day of the employee's work week.
2)	When permanent changes in shift assignments are made, employees within a position classification at a facility shall be entitled to exercise seniority as defined in this Article to retain their current shift assignment.
3)	During each contract year, no more than 20% of the employees within a bargaining unit position classification at a facility shall be permitted to exercise seniority as defined in Article XVIII to displace in the shift of his/her choice the least senior employee within such position classification and shift so long as such choice is exercised within the employee's normal area of assignment (by ward, program or physical area, as the case may be). No employee shall be permitted to exercise his/her choice hereunder more than once during each contract year. An employee shall be eligible to exercise seniority pursuant to this section for any starting or quitting time that is
different from the employee’s current work schedule provided such schedule is set forth in the appropriate supplemental agreement.
This subsection may be modified by the parties at local supplemental negotiations to allow local flexibility with shift preference and related bumping.
4)	Seniority as used herein shall be defined in Section 2 of Article XVIII but the term "ability" and "qualifications" shall also include the employee’s demonstrated compatibility with residents as determined by the Employer.
5)	"Shift Bumping" request procedure:
a)	Requests shall be made in writing to the immediate supervisor at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the time the employee requests such shift change to take place.
b)	The employee being displaced by such request shall be given the notice of such displacement and the shift assigned as soon as possible, but no later than ten (10) working days prior to such change.
c)	The change or exchange of shifts shall take place starting with the first day of the bumped employee's work week. Such change may cause the displacing employee's requested date of change to be delayed but no later than seven (7) days after the effective date of change requested.
d)	A displaced employee may exercise his/her seniority to displace a junior employee on a shift of his/her preference and such employee may give fifteen (15) days notice under subsection (a) above any time after he/she receives notice of the original displacement. Such employee's shift change shall not be deemed or counted as the one choice allowed an employee during each contract year nor be charged against the 20% limit for all employees, if such request is made within forty-five (45) days of being notified under (b) above.
e)	Management shall notify the Union of all shift displacements prior to the actual displacement taking place.
C.	RC-42 Shift Bumping
When permanent changes in shift assignments are made, employees shall be entitled to exercise seniority to retain their shift assignments. A permanent change in an
employee's shift assignment shall be made effective on the first day of the employee's new work week. An employee shall be eligible to exercise seniority pursuant to this section for any starting or quitting time that is different from the employee’s current work schedule provided such schedule is set forth in the appropriate supplemental agreement.
On February 15 each year, employees within a work location shall have an opportunity to exercise seniority for shift assignments within each work location.
Section 5.	Promotion, Voluntary Reduction and Parallel Pay Grade Movement
A. RC-6, 9, 10, 14, 28, 62 and 63
Subject to filling permanent vacancies under Section 3 of this Article, such vacancies shall be filled in accordance with the following:
1)	The Employer, if requested, shall supply the employee with Form CMS-1OOB. Employees shall be allowed a reasonable period of time to complete the form without loss of pay during normal work hours. The employee must return the form to the Examining Division, Department of Central Management Services, within the prescribed posting time limits.
2)	Management will request whatever promotional lists are necessary to show the grades for all bidders from the work location. No selection will be made until the grades of all bidders have been received by management from the Department of Central Management Services.
3)	For RC-10, 14, 28, 62 and 63 only. Employees bidding for vacancies under this Section from position classifications having parallel pay grades shall be required to qualify under the same standards used for promotional bidders.
4)	Order of Selection. Selection for promotion and/or voluntary reduction shall be in the following order of priority from among employees certified in their current position classification, for each respective bargaining unit listed in Schedule A.
a)RC-6 and 9
(i)	The employee with the most seniority in the next lower rated position classification within the position classification series in which the vacancy occurs.
(ii)	The employee with the most seniority in a higher position classification in the position classification series.
(iii)	The employee with the most seniority in a lower position classification (in the same classification series) other than the next lowest in the position series.
(iv)	The employee with the most seniority in an equal to, lower, or higher position classification not in the same position classification series.
b) RC-10,14, 28, 62 and 63
(i)	Employees in the next lower classification within the classification series, and employees bidding for voluntary reduction,(RC-10 only and fulltime employees in the same classifications bidding on an intermittent position) who have completed their promotional probationary period.
(ii)	Employees in the next succeeding lower classification within the classification series.
(iii)	All other qualified and eligible bidders (including parallel pay grade bidders).
Work location priorities for the above are as follows:
(i)	Employees at the work location where the vacancy occurs;
(ii)	Other work locations of the agency within the county unless mutually agreed otherwise on an agency basis.
(iii)	In the Department of Natural Resources it shall be within region for those Site Technician II's assigned to the Regional Hot Shot Crews.
5)	Selection from the B grade list shall take place only after there are no A bidders, or after the A's on the competitive promotional register are exhausted. The register shall be considered exhausted when there are not more than two A's on it who have not indicated that they waive rights with respect to the position in question.
Selection from those employees not receiving an A or B shall take place only after the A and B eligible registers are exhausted and/or there are no A or B bidders. Employees on the A or B list who have been contacted by the Employer shall be considered to have waived if they have not responded within five (5) days to a request for
waiver. (See Memorandum of Understanding with regards to Filling of Vacancies).
6)	For the purposes of this Section, the employee selected to fill such permanent vacancy shall be selected from eligible and qualified bidders on the basis of seniority as defined in Article XVIII. However, a bidder with less than one (1) year service in the Agency in which the vacancy arises shall not be awarded the position unless there are no eligible and qualified bidders with more than one (1) year's service with the Agency. Employees shall not be asked or required to resign from their current position in order to be selected for any other position in any other AFSCME bargaining unit regardless of agency.
7)	A certified employee selected through voluntary reduction shall be certified in that position classification without serving a probationary period. A probationary employee who voluntarily reduces shall serve a new probation period.
8)	A promoted employee or an employee selected from a parallel pay grade shall be returned to his/her former position classification (seniority permitting) any time during the certification period, which shall consist of four (4) months of continuous service except for employees promoted under a Trainee Agreement who shall serve the probationary period defined in the applicable Trainee Agreement, after such promotion or selection due to the inability to perform duties and responsibilities of the newly promoted position classification. In addition, an employee may voluntarily return to such position classification at his/her former step and creditable service date, seniority permitting, during the certification period, if such return is to a permanent vacancy. Such movement supersedes all priorities listed in Section 2 of this Article.
9)	If there are no qualified bidders (or transfer applicants under RC-10,14, 28, 62 and 63) the Employer may at its prerogative fill the vacancy from voluntary non-bidders or by hiring new employees provided there are no employees in a higher position classification on the appropriate recall lists.
10)	Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the Employer from temporarily filling a posted vacancy.
B) RC-42 Only
1)	The Employer, if requested, shall supply the employee with Form CMS-1OOB. Employees shall be allowed a reasonable period of time to complete the form without loss of pay during normal work hours. The employee must return the form to the Examining Division, Department of Central Management Services within the prescribed posting time limits.
2)	Management will request whatever promotional lists are necessary to show the grades for all bidders from the work location. No selection will be made until the grades of all bidders have been received by management from the Department of Central Management Services.
3)	Order of Selection. Selection for promotion shall be in the following order of priority from among employees certified in the position classification series listed in Schedule A.
a)	Employees in the next lower classification within the classification series, and employees bidding for voluntary reduction.
b)	Employees in the next succeeding lower classification within the classification series.
c)	All other qualified and eligible bidders.
Work location priorities for the above are as follows:
(i)	Employees at the work site,
(ii)	Other work locations of the agency within the county.
4)	Selection from the B grade list shall take place only after there are no A bidders, or after the A's on the competitive promotional register are exhausted. The register shall be considered exhausted when there are not more than two A's on it who have not indicated that they waive rights with respect to the position in question.
Selection from those employees not receiving an A or B shall take place only after the A and B eligible bidders are exhausted and/or there are no A or B bidders. Employees on the A or B list who have been contacted by the Employer shall be considered to have waived if they have not responded within five days to a request for waiver. (See Memorandum of Understanding with regards to Filling of Vacancies).
5)	For the purposes of this Section, the employee selected to fill such permanent vacancy shall be selected from eligible and qualified bidders on the basis of seniority as defined in Article XVIII. Employees shall not be asked or required to resign from their current position in order to be selected for any other position in any other AFSCME bargaining unit regardless of agency.
6)	A certified employee selected for voluntary reduction shall be certified in that position classification without serving a probationary period. A probationary employee who voluntarily reduces shall be certified by serving the balance of the probation period.
7)	A promoted employee shall be returned to his/her former position classification (seniority permitting) any time during the certification period after such promotion due to the inability to perform duties and responsibilities of the newly promoted position classification. In addition, an employee may voluntarily return to such position classification at his/her former step and creditable service date, seniority permitting, during the certification period after such promotion, if such return is to a permanent vacancy. Such movement supersedes all priorities listed in Section 2 of this Article.
8)	If there are no qualified bidders or transfer applicants the Employer may at its prerogative fill the vacancy from voluntary non-bidders or by hiring new employees provided there are no employees in a higher position classification on the appropriate recall list.
9)	Nothing contained in this Article shall prevent the Employer from temporarily filling a posted vacancy.
Section 6.	Days Off
A.	RC-6 Only
Employees within the same general work assignment (cellhouse duty, tower duty, cottage duty, etc.), same position classification and same shift may exercise their seniority as defined in Article XVIII, Section 2 to retain their current scheduled days off.
Scheduled days off shall be assigned by seniority from among employees within the same general work assignment, same position classification and same shift, the most senior employee choosing first. No employee shall be permitted to
exercise his/her choice hereunder more than once during each contract year.
Requests shall be made in writing to the immediate supervisor at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the time the employee requests a days off change.
The employee being displaced by such request shall be given the notice of such displacement and the days off change as soon as possible, but not later than ten (10) working days prior to such change.
The change of days off shall take place starting with the first day of the bumped employee's work week. Such change may cause the displacing employee's requested date of change to be delayed but no later than seven (7) days after the effective date of change requested.
A displaced employee may exercise his/her seniority to displace a junior employee for days off and such employee may give fifteen (15) days notice under subsection (a) above any time after he/she receives notice of the original displacement. Such employee's day off change shall not be deemed or counted as the employee's one choice allowed during the contract year.
B.	RC-42, 28, 62, 63 and Site Technicians I and II
When the Employer makes permanent work schedule changes affecting employees days off, employees within the same general work assignment, same position classification, and same shift may exercise their seniority to retain their current scheduled days off. Within 90 days of the effective date of this Agreement, and March 15 in the subsequent year thereafter, employees may exercise their seniority for scheduled days off from among employees within the same general work assignment, same position classification and same shift, the more senior employee choosing first.
Section 7.	Transfers
A.	RC-6, 9, 10, 14, 28, 62 and 63
An employee, except employees desiring to transfer who have not completed their original six (6) month probationary period, and for those Technical Advisor positions appointed by a Commissioner of the Illinois Industrial Commission, desiring to transfer to the same position classification, an equal or lower position in a classification in which an employee was previously certified, or a position lower in the series for which he/she is qualified, in a different work location shall file a request for transfer form, which shall be effective for two (2) years, with the appropriate personnel officer. In addition, an employee seeking a transfer to a clerical position must be previously certified
in the identified option or have passed the testing option within ten (10) working days of the Employer giving his/her notice of transfer consideration, unless the test is not reasonably available to the employee within such time frame. Employees may not transfer under this Section more than once every twenty-four (24) months. An employee transferring from one unit/work area of an Agency to another unit/work area shall be transferred in a timely manner.
(Except for RC-6 and 9) When a vacancy is not filled by the exercise of, or the failure to exercise, the rights in Sections 3, 4 and 5 above and in Article XX (Layoff), Sections 3 and 4, it shall be filled on the basis of seniority as defined in Article XVIII from among employees who have completed a request for transfer form, in the following order:
a)	Applicants to transfer to a different work location of the same Agency in the same county;
b)	Applicants to transfer to a different work location of the same Agency in a different county;
c)	Applicants to transfer to a different Agency.
B.	RC-42 Only
An employee desiring to transfer to the same position classification in a different work site shall file a request for transfer form which shall be effective for one year with the appropriate Personnel Officer. Employees may not transfer under this Section more than once every twelve (12) months. When a vacancy is not filled pursuant to Section 4, it shall be filled on the basis of seniority as defined in Article XVIII from among employees who have completed a request for transfer form, in the following order:
(i)	Applicants to transfer to a different work site of the same agency in the same county.
(ii)	Applicants to transfer to a different work site of the same agency in a different county.
(iii)	Applicants to transfer to a different Agency.
When a vacancy is filled under this Section, management is not required to post the resulting vacancy. However, if it does not post the job, it shall thereupon honor any transfer requests then on file with the Agency to the extent possible, and they may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to Section 5B(8).
Section 8.	Promotion and Conversion of Intermittents
Where a vacancy arises in a work location in a classification for which there exists a parallel intermittent classification, intermittents who bid shall be grouped with bidders from the next lower-rated classification. In the event that an intermittent is awarded the position, he/she shall be considered converted in status. Intermittent laborers who are not certified shall be allowed to bid and will be interviewed for positions prior to hiring from the outside for full-time vacancies.
Section 9.	Semi-Automatic In-Series Advancement
For the purposes of this Article, jobs currently being filled through semi-automatic "in-series advancement" shall not be considered as permanent vacancies. Upon eligibility, employees shall be promoted and semi-automatically advanced once they have received a satisfactory annual evaluation and a promotional “A” or “B” grade from the Department of Central Management Services. The effective date of such promotion shall be no later than the date the employee completed the required time period for such advancement, provided the annual evaluation is at least satisfactory and the employee has received a promotional “A” or “B” grade.
With respect to the Mental Health Generalist series, it is understood that the Department of Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities will continue its past practice of not promoting the selected bidder until the successful completion of training, and its practice regarding promotion of Technicians I to Technicians II under the Memorandum of Understanding.
Semi-automatic titles include, but are not limited to the following:
Agricultural Land and Water Resources Specialist I to II, II to III
Bank Examiner I to II, II to III
Child Protection Associate Specialist to Child Protection Specialist
Child Protection Specialist to Child Protection Advanced Specialist
Child Welfare Associate Specialist to Child Welfare Specialist
Child Welfare Specialist to Child Welfare Advanced Specialist
Correctional Counselor I to II
Corrections Food Service Supervisor I to II Corrections Leisure Activities Specialist I to II
Corrections Parole Agent to Corrections Senior Parole Agent
Corrections Supply Supervisor I to II Criminal Intelligence Analyst I to II Day Care Licensing Representative I to II Environmental Health Specialist I to II Environmental Protection Engineer I to II, II to III Environmental Protection Geologist I to II, II to III Environmental Protection Specialist I to II, II to III Financial Institutions Examiner I to II, II to III Forensic Scientist I to II, II to III Information Service Specialist I to II Human Services Grant Coordinator I to II
Licensed Practical Nurse I to II
Manpower Planner I to II
Rehabilitation Counselor Trainee to Rehabilitation Counselor to Rehabilitation Counselor Senior Revenue Auditor I to Revenue Auditor II Revenue Auditor II to Revenue Auditor III Revenue Collection Officer Trainee to Revenue
Collection Officer I, I to II, II to III
Revenue Special Agent Trainee to Revenue Special Agent Revenue Special Agent to Revenue Senior Special Agent Revenue Tax Specialist I to II
Site Technician I to Site Technician II Technical Advisor I to II (with law license) Weatherization Specialist I to II
Effective July 1, 2005
Chemist I to II
Geographic Information Specialist I to II Office Aide to Office Clerk
Social Service Program Planner I to II, II to III
Section 10.	Agency Bidders Preference
RC-42 and Site Technicians I and II
An employee with one year or more service with the agency shall be granted preference in the application of seniority in this Article over employees having less than one year service in the agency.
ARTICLE XX
Layoff
Section 1.	Application
Layoff shall be in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Article with the exception that they shall not apply to:
a)	Emergency shutdown of five (5) days or less where all employees are to be recalled. Time in nonwork status as a result of emergency shut down pursuant to 80 Ill. Admin. Code § 303.310 shall be with pay.
b)	The nonscheduling of intermittent employees.
c)	School year employees at institutions and schools during recesses in the academic year and/or summer, if all employees in the affected classes are to be laid off and recalled.
d)	Temporary layoff of five (5) days or less shall be in accordance with Personnel Rule 302.510 and seniority as defined in Article XVIII. Employees affected by temporary layoff shall not suffer any reduction in fringe benefits for the term of the temporary layoff and employees shall be laid off in accordance with Section 2(a), (c), (d), (e) and shall receive notice in accordance with Section 3(l).
Temporary layoff provisions contained herein shall not be used for implementing a statewide furlough program which would affect all State agencies without the Employer first notifying and negotiating with the Union over such intent.
Section 2.	General Procedures
a)	Layoff shall be by official organizational unit as recorded by official position description coding methods. The bargaining units are regarded as distinct and separate units for purposes of layoff unless specific provisions of this master contract and/or this Article allow for specific exceptions such as bumping between related classifications in different bargaining units. The organization units for RC-6 and 9 shall be defined as the facility.
b)	It is understood by the parties that Personnel Rule 302.523 dealing with voluntary layoff shall
apply to all classifications and titles listed in Schedule A of the Master Collective Bargaining Agreement.
c)	Layoff shall be by position classification.
d)	Employees within the appropriate layoff unit as defined in (a) above shall be laid off in inverse order of seniority as defined in Article XVIII.
e)	No certified or probationary employee within a position classification within an appropriate organizational unit and work location shall be laid off until any temporary, provisional or emergency employee, within such position classification is terminated noncertified. No certified or probationary employee within a position classification within an appropriate organizational unit shall be laid off until an employee in a trainee position classification within the classification series or an employee in a trainee position classification who has a targeted title to a position within the classification series within either the appropriate organizational unit or worksite is first terminated noncertified. No certified employee within a position classification within an appropriate organizational unit shall be laid off until all original appointment, probationary employees within the same position classification within the appropriate organizational unit are first laid off.
f)	(RC-10, 62 and 63 only) In the application of the layoff and recall procedure, the Employer reserves the right to establish bona fide requirements of specialized skills, training, experience and other necessary qualifications that have been set forth in the official position description (CMS-104) or listed as official options in the job specification at the time of the layoff proposal. The Employer agrees to notify the Union of specialized requirements of positions involved in the application of the layoff procedure at the time of submitting the agency's layoff proposal to the Director of Central Management Services for informational purposes only.
Such requirements on the CMS-104 shall relate to permanent job functions of such a nature that could not be learned during the normal orientation period associated with the filling of a vacant position in that position classification.
The parties agree that positions in all RC-10 and RC-63 classifications and in certain
classifications in RC-62 may be subject to the provisions of this Section. RC-62 classifications which the parties contemplate may include positions subject to these provisions are identified by a footnote in Schedule A.
The Employer shall notify the Union of any additional classification(s) it believes may include positions which should be subject to this Section, and will negotiate over the necessity for such additional classification(s). Should the parties fail to agree, and the Employer implements the specialized requirements, the Union may grieve the dispute directly to Step 4.
g)	(RC-9 only) For Licensed Practical Nurse and Mental Health Technician positions which require the use of sign language, the Employer may require sign language as a bona fide option as listed in the job description.
Section 3.	Bumping and Transfer in Lieu of Layoff
a)	An employee who is subject to layoff is defined as that employee who is scheduled to be laid off by the employing Agency or removed from their position, even though they still may be on the Agency's payroll.
b)	No less than five (5) calendar days prior to the layoff meeting, the Employer will provide a written packet of information informing an employee(s) subject to layoff and employee(s) potentially affected by layoff of his/her highest level rights under each step (c) through (j). Such packet shall include: the agency seniority roster (including shift, days off, work location, work site and specialized skills) of employee(s) subject to layoff and employee(s) potentially affected by layoff; the agency vacancy list (including shift, days off, work location, work site and specialized skills), if applicable; potential bumping options, if applicable; and such information as is needed in order for the employee(s) to exercise his/her rights under this Article.
Starting with the highest bargaining unit and pay grade, employee(s) may choose to exercise or waive his/her available bump option in (c) through (i), if applicable. The employee(s) must make his/her selection known to the Employer at the time of his/her bump meeting and such selection shall be
final. An employee may still opt to be laid off at any time prior to the implementation of the bump, however the Employer shall not be required to modify the layoff plan.
Agency vacancies shall be offered, if applicable and seniority permitting, upon completion of the bumping process, (c) through (i). An employee(s) who chooses to waive his/her available bump option, or if no bump option was available, may choose to exercise his/her right to a Transfer or Voluntary Reduction in Lieu of Layoff (j), if applicable and seniority permitting. The employee must make his/her selection known to the Employer at the time he/she is offered a vacancy and such selection shall be final. An employee may still opt to be laid off at any time prior to being placed into the vacancy, however the Employer shall not be required to modify the layoff plan.
c)	Bumping Priority - First Step - Work location for bumping purposes is defined as the identified agency's facility, local office area or building or as defined by supplemental agreement approved by DCMS and AFSCME in which the organizational unit of layoff is located except as provided for in RC-6 and RC-9 in Section 2(a) of this Article. An employee subject to layoff shall bump the least senior employee in the same position classification and work location, except in position classifications with options, the employee shall bump the least senior employee in an option which the employee who is bumping is qualified to perform. In the event that more than one employee in the same position classification and work location are subject to layoff, an equal number of least senior employees at the work location (a number equal to the number of employees electing to bump) shall be identified and in seniority order, the employees subject to layoff shall be allowed their choice in bumping the identified least senior employees. Since the work location is facility wide, RC-6 and RC-9 employees are not subject to this lateral bumping provision. Management reserves the right to resolve staffing deficiencies resulting from an RC-9 layoff per Article XIX, Section 3(A)3 or 3(A)l as agreed by the parties. In the event that an employee waives or refuses to accept an available bump under this provision the employee shall be laid-off.
d)	Bumping Priority - Second Step - If the employee is unable to bump at the immediate work location as defined in (c) above, the employee shall bump
the least senior employee in the same position classification, except in position classifications with options, the employee shall bump the least senior employee in an option which the employee who is bumping is qualified to perform, and agency in the county where the position is located unless otherwise agreed by the parties in supplemental agreements approved by DCMS and AFSCME. In the event that more than one employee in the same position classification and work location are unable to bump under (c) above, an equal number of least senior employees in the county (a number equal to the number electing to bump) shall be identified and in seniority order, the employees subject to layoff shall be allowed their choice in bumping the identified least senior employees. RC-6 and RC-9 employees are not subject to this lateral bumping provision. In the event that an employee waives or refuses to accept an available bump under this provision, the employee shall be laid off.
e)	Bumping Priority - Third Step - Lower level in same position classification series, except in position classifications with options, the employee shall bump the least senior employee in an option which the employee who is bumping is qualified to perform, by work location (similar to (c) above) but includes RC-6 and RC-9 employees.
f)	Bumping Priority - Fourth Step - Lower level in same position classification series, except in position classifications with options, the employee shall bump the least senior employee in an option which the employee who is bumping is qualified to perform, by county (similar to (d) above) but excludes RC-6 and RC-9 employees.
g)	Bumping Priority - Fifth Step - Employees covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be allowed to bump into a previously certified position classification or the successor title to a previously certified classification, except in position classifications with options, the employee shall bump the least senior employee in an option which the employee who is bumping is qualified to perform, in any AFSCME bargaining unit, or lower level position classification in the same classification series except in position classifications with options, the employee shall bump the least senior employee in an option which the employee who is bumping is qualified to perform, in another AFSCME bargaining unit by work location (similar to (c) above) but includes RC-6 and RC-9 employees.
h)	Bumping Priority - Sixth Step -Employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be allowed to bump into a previously certified position classification, or successor title to a previously certified position classification, except in position classifications with options, the employee shall bump the least senior employee in an option which the employee who is bumping is qualified to perform, in any AFSCME bargaining unit or lower level position classification in the same classification series, except in position classifications with options, the employee shall bump the least senior employee in an option which the employee who is bumping is qualified to perform, in another AFSCME bargaining unit by county (similar to (d) above) but excludes RC-6 and RC-9 employees.
i)	Notwithstanding the above, an employee subject to layoff shall be permitted to exercise bumping options at his/her worksite and/or work location, seniority permitting, before bumping to another worksite or work location.
j)	Transfer or Voluntary Reduction in Lieu of Layoff - An employee subject to layoff as defined above shall be offered a transfer or voluntary reduction within the agency's available bargaining unit vacancies in lieu of layoff, and provided the employee is qualified for such vacancy. Offers of transfers or voluntary reduction shall be by seniority. The employing agency's vacancies as defined under Article XIX shall be offered on a statewide basis regardless of the work location or bargaining unit of the vacancy.
k)	Inter-agency Transfer on Layoff - An employee(s) unable to exercise his/her bumping and seniority rights under the above Sections, or for whom the exercise of such rights would result in a two (2) or more paygrade reduction, or would require the employee(s) to travel in excess of thirty-five (35) miles (or twenty (20) miles within Cook County) from his/her current work location, shall have the right to transfer to a permanent vacancy in any AFSCME bargaining unit in the same position classification or other position classification for which he/she is qualified in another agency.
l)	The Union and employees shall be provided thirty (30) days advance notice of the layoff by the agency whenever possible and in emergency layoff situations the Union shall be provided as much advance notice as possible. Such notice to the Union shall contain the details of layoff with
respect to numbers, position classification, and work location.
m)	Employees reduced in pay grade by virtue of bumping or voluntary reduction to avoid layoff shall retain recall rights to his/her former position classification.
n) It is understood by the parties that promotion in lieu of layoff is not an employee option as stated under this Article.
o)	An employee in a position classification in a semi-automatic series who exercises a bumping right under this Section to the lower level title in the semi-automatic series shall retain his/her current classification.
p)	All bumping rights and rights to vacancies shall extend to previously certified classifications for which he/she is qualified, including classifications which are successor titles and those in the same series but lower than the previously held title, regardless of bargaining unit.
q)	All bumping rights under this Section shall not be exercised between agencies.
Section 4.	Recall
a)	(1) RC-6 and 9. When staffing is increased or permanent vacancies occur within a position classification, employees laid off from such position classification at the facility shall be recalled in accordance with seniority as defined in Article XVIII, Section l; provided, however, when two or more facilities are within the same county, the recall list will be constituted by county and, thus, laid off employees from such facilities shall be recalled at any facility within said county in accordance with seniority as defined in Article XVIII, Section 1.
(2)	RC-10, 14, 28, 42, 62 and 63. When staffing is increased or permanent vacancies occur within the position classification, affected employees in the employing unit shall be recalled in accordance with seniority as defined in Article XVIII, Section 1, provided, however, when two or more employing units are within the same county, the recall list will be constituted by county. For RC-10, 62 and 63, employees must be qualified to meet the
specialized skill(s) of a position in order to be recalled to the position.
(3)	All employees subject to layoff or on layoff may select up to two (2) counties in addition to the county from which they have been laid off on whose recall list they wish their name to appear, and shall be so listed. Such county preference must be made known to the Employer anytime prior to the effective date of the layoff. However if a facility or office is closed, such employees will be allowed to select up to three (3) counties in addition to the county from which they were laid off.
If an employee elects a lateral move, or takes a voluntary reduction in lieu of layoff, or is recalled to another county other than his/her county of layoff, he/she shall retain recall rights to his/her county of layoff.
(4)	A full-time employee subject to layoff or on layoff who exercises his/her right to bump into or take a vacancy in a part-time position shall remain on the appropriate recall lists for full-time positions.
(5)	Recall shall be in the following order of priority:
i)	Seniority among employees laid off from the same county as the position which is being filled; and,
ii)	Seniority among employees who have elected to be listed on the recall list pursuant to this Section 4(a)(3).
b)	Permanent vacancies not filled by recall or bid shall be offered to employees on higher level position classification recall lists provided such employees have not previously declined similar vacancies. Management is under no obligation to offer such permanent vacancies to employees on higher level position classification recall lists if the qualifications for such positions are extremely restrictive and if it is determined that such employee would, therefore, not qualify for the permanent vacancy. To the extent practicable, new employees will not be hired for permanent vacancies when there is a recall list for a higher rated position classification within the same employing unit. Employees who have previously elected voluntary reductions or have been bumped down shall not be offered such vacancies if they
remain employed by the Employer and the vacancy is equal to or lower rated than their present position.
c)	An employee laid off shall retain and accumulate seniority and continuous service during such layoff not to exceed three (3) years.
d)	A laid off employee who fails to respond within ten (10) work days of the recall, or upon acceptance fails to be available for work within five (5) calendar days, shall forfeit all recall rights, unless the employee provides good cause for not so reporting.
e)	The employee's right to recall shall exist for a period of three (3) years from the date of layoff.
f)	There shall be no appointments under Personnel Rules 302.90 and 302.580 (except as provided in this Agreement) to any position classification where there are employees with recall rights under this Agreement except where there is a demoted employee or an employee being reduced as a result of a layoff.
g)	Employees who after layoff or voluntary reduction in lieu of layoff are returned to the former position classification from which they were laid off or voluntarily reduced shall be placed at a pay step based on creditable service as if uninterrupted.
h)	If an employee is recalled and is unavailable to accept the position due to documented medical reasons, the agency may bypass the employee and the employee shall remain on the recall list.
i)	If a probationary employee is recalled, he/she shall serve the remainder of his/her probationary period or no less than two (2) months, whichever is greater.
Section 5.	Non-Scheduling of Intermittents
A)	Department of Employment Security
The non-scheduling of intermittent employees shall be done on the basis of inverse seniority, applied among the employees at the immediate work location.
Utilization of intermittents is determined by seniority. Intermittents who are scheduled less than four (4) days a week in their parent Cost Center will be offered
opportunity for listing in Regional Pools. They will continue attachment to their original Cost Center of assignment.
Available work will be offered to intermittents in these pools in order of seniority. Those accepting such work will be detailed to the new Cost Center.
Notice of non-scheduling shall be in writing, on a mutually agreed upon form, and shall be given to the employee and the Union before the mid-point of the previous work day.
At the conclusion of a detail assignment from the Pool, the intermittent may return to the original Cost Center, seniority permitting.
Any intermittent employee in non-work status for a period of two (2) calendar years shall be subject to termination.
B)	RC-42 Only
The non-scheduling of intermittent employees shall be done on the basis of inverse seniority, applied among the employees at the immediate work location.
Utilization of intermittents is determined by seniority.
When the employee reports for work on his/her regularly scheduled work day and is sent home from the work site by the Employer, the employee shall be guaranteed two (2) hours straight time pay if he/she has not worked at least two hours that day.
Any intermittent employee in non-work status for a period of two calendar years, shall be subject to termination.
C)	RC-10 only
The non-scheduling of intermittent employees shall be done on the basis of inverse seniority, applied among the employees at the immediate work location, unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Notice of non-scheduling shall be in writing, on a mutually agreed upon form, and shall be given to the employee and the Union before the mid-point of the previous work day, unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Any intermittent employee in non-work status for a period of two (2) calendar years shall be subject to termination.
Section 6.	Industrial Commission Technical Advisors
a)	An employee who is subject to layoff is defined as that employee who is scheduled to be laid off by the employing Agency or removed from his/her position, even though he/she still may be on the Agency's payroll. Industrial Commission Technical Advisors who were appointed by a Commissioner and working for the Illinois Industrial Commission shall be considered employees subject to layoff when they are not reappointed by a newly appointed Commissioner of the Industrial Commission, or when their original appointment was made by a different Commissioner, and they may not replace other Technical Advisors working for the Industrial Commission who were appointed by a Commissioner nor are they subject to recall to Technical Advisor positions appointed by Commissioners of the Illinois Industrial Commission.
b)	Technical Advisors working for the Industrial Commission not reappointed by a new Industrial Commission Commissioner shall not be subject to recall to an Industrial Commission Technical Advisor position appointed by a Commissioner of the Industrial Commission. Industrial Commission Technical Advisors shall be subject to recall rights pursuant to Section 4 of this Article to any other bargaining unit position other than a Technical Advisor position appointed by a Commissioner of the Illinois Industrial Commission.
c)	A newly appointed Industrial Commission Commissioner shall have a period of up to six (6) months to evaluate a Technical Advisor appointed by a previously appointed Industrial Commissioner without the Technical Advisor gaining job status rights as an appointee of the newly appointed Industrial Commissioner. Retention beyond the six (6) months will be indicative of reappointment.
d)	Industrial Commission Commissioners shall not be required to appoint Technical Advisors from a recall list to positions within the jurisdiction of the Industrial Commission Commissioner to appoint outside the parameters of the Personnel Code. Any other Technical Advisor position of the Industrial Commission covered under the jurisdiction of this bargaining unit shall be filled pursuant to the Agreement.
ARTICLE XXI
Continuous Service
Section 1.	Definition
Continuous service is the uninterrupted period of service from the date of original appointment to State service, except as provided in Personnel Rule 302.250.
Employees who have accrued continuous service under a different merit system or who have accrued continuous service in State service not covered by any merit system and who move without a break in State service to a position covered by this Agreement shall be given such credit for said service.
Section 2.	Interruptions in Continuous Service
Continuous service shall be interrupted by:
a)	Resignation; provided, however, that such continuous service will not be interrupted by resignation when an employee is employed in another position in the State service within four (4) calendar days of such resignation;
b)	Discharge; for just cause;
c)	Termination; because an employee has been laid off for a period of three (3) years.
Section 3.	Deductions from Continuous Service
Except as provided in following shall be deducted continuous service:
Personnel Rule 302.240, the from, but not interrupt
a)	Time away from work for any leaves of absence without pay totaling more than thirty (30) days in any twelve (12) month period, except time away from work for a leave of absence to accept a temporary, provisional, emergency or exempt assignment in another class, or in other leaves of absence where employees are allowed to accumulate seniority under the provisions of this Agreement, shall not be deducted from continuous service.
b)	Time away from work because of disciplinary suspensions for just cause totaling more than thirty (30) days in any twelve (12) month period shall be deducted from seniority and/or continuous service, whichever is applicable.
ARTICLE XXII
Geographical Transfer
In the event a geographical transfer under Personnel Rule 302.430 (the transfer of an employee from one geographical location in the State to another for the performance of duties other than temporary assignments or detailing for the convenience of the Employer) is required, seniority as defined in Article XVIII shall govern, the highest given first preference. If no employee wishes to accept such transfer, the least senior employee in the affected position classification shall be required to take such transfer. If an employee refuses the geographical transfer, the employee will be afforded the right to move into an equal or lower level vacant position only within his/her Agency pursuant to Article XX, Section 3(b). In the event that the employee takes the geographical transfer, refuses the geographic transfer, or moves to vacancy as outlined above, such employee shall have recall rights as set forth in Article XX, Section 4, Recall, however, such recall rights shall be limited to the agency at which the employee was employed at the time he/she was made the subject of a geographic transfer. An employee shall be reimbursed for all reasonable transportation and moving expenses incurred in moving to a new location because of an involuntary permanent geographical transfer.
It is understood that the term geographical transfer includes both transfers across county lines, and, within Cook County, transfers of a significant distance.
Appeals of geographical transfer must be filed pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding.
ARTICLE XXIII
Leaves of Absence
Section 1.	General Leave
The Employer may grant leaves of absence without pay to employees for periods not to exceed six (6) months. Such leaves may be extended for good cause by the Employer for additional six (6) month periods. Any request for such leave shall be made in writing by the employee reasonably in advance of the leave unless precluded by emergency conditions, stating the purpose of the leave, the expected duration of absence, and any additional relevant information.
Section 2.	Leave for Elected Office
Any employee who is elected to a State office shall, upon request, be granted a leave of absence for the duration of the elected term.
Section 3.	Educational Leave
a)	A leave of absence for a period not to exceed one (1) year may be granted to an employee in order that the employee may attend a recognized college, university, trade or technical school, high or primary school, provided that the course of instruction is related to the employee's employment opportunities with the State and is of potential benefit to his/her State service. Before receiving the leave, or an extension thereof, the employee shall submit to the Employer satisfactory evidence that the college, university or other school has accepted him/her as a student and, on the expiration of each semester or other school term, shall submit proof of attendance during such term. Such leaves may be extended for good cause for additional periods not to exceed one (1) year each. Such leaves or extensions thereof shall not be unreasonably denied.
b)	If because of changes in certification, accreditation or licensure employees are required by the Employer to take courses on a part-time basis so as to retain their present position classification such employees shall be granted reasonable time for such without loss of pay. Those employees required to take courses on a full-time basis will be granted a leave of absence without pay. Where employees retain classification status despite increased standards
by exercise of Article XXVI, Section 4, such employees shall be eligible for the leaves or time off as provided above if so required by the Employer to attend such courses.
Section 4.	Veterans' Leave
Leaves of absence shall be granted to employees who leave their positions and enter military service for four (4) years or less (exclusive of any additional service imposed pursuant to law). An employee shall be restored to the same or a similar position on making an application to the Employer within ninety (90) days after separation from active duty or from hospitalization continuing after discharge for not more than one (1) year. The employee must provide evidence of satisfactory completion of training and military service when making application and be qualified to perform the duties of the position. Any permanent employee drafted into military service shall be allowed up to three (3) days leave with pay to take a physical examination required by such draft. Upon request, the employee must provide the Employer with certification by a responsible authority that the period of the leave was actually used for such purpose.
Section 5.	Military Reserve Training and Emergency Call-up
a)	Any full-time employee who is a member of a reserve component of the Armed Services, the Illinois National Guard or the Illinois Naval Militia, shall be allowed annual leave with pay in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 325 et seq. to fulfill the military reserve obligation. Such leaves will be granted without loss of seniority or other accrued benefits.
b)	In the case of an emergency call-up (or order to State active duty) by the Governor, the leave shall be granted for the duration of said emergency with pay and without loss of seniority or other accrued benefits. Military earnings for the emergency call-up paid under the Illinois Military Code must be submitted and assigned to the employing agency, and the employing agency shall return it to the payroll fund from which the employee's payroll check was drawn. If military pay exceeds the employee's earnings for the period, the employing agency shall return the difference to the employee.
c)	To be eligible for military reserve leave or emergency call-up pay, the employee must provide the employing agency with a certificate from the commanding officer of his/her unit that the leave taken was for either such purpose.
d)	Any full-time employee who is a member of any reserve component of the United States Armed Forces or of any reserve component of the Illinois State Militia shall be granted leave from State employment for any period actively spent in such military service including basic training and special or advanced training, whether or not within the State, and whether or not voluntary.
e)	During such basic training and up to sixty(60)days of special or advance training, if such employee's compensation for military activities is less than his/her compensation as a State employee, he/she shall receive his/her regular compensation as a State employee minus the amount of his/her base pay for military activities. During such training, the employee's seniority and other benefits shall continue to accrue.
Section 6.	Peace or Job Corps Leave
Any employee who volunteers and is accepted for service in the overseas or domestic Peace or Job Corps shall be given a leave of absence from employment for the duration of the initial period of service and restored to the same or similar position, provided that the employee returns to employment within ninety (90) days of the termination of the employee's service or release from hospitalization from a service-connected disability.
Section 7.	Adoption Leave
Employees shall be granted leaves of absence without pay for a period not to exceed one (1) year for the adoption of a child. Such leave may be extended pursuant to Section 9 of this Article.
Section 8.	Child Care Leave
Employees shall be granted leaves of absence without pay for a period not to exceed six (6) months for the purposes of child care in situations where the employee's care of the child is required to avoid unusual disturbances in the child's life. Such leave may be renewed pursuant to Section 1 above. Any request for such leave shall be made in writing by the employee reasonably in advance of the leave unless precluded by emergency conditions, stating the
purpose of the leave, the expected duration of absence, and any additional relevant information.
Section 9.	Family Responsibility Leave
a)	An employee who wishes to be absent from work in order to meet or fulfill responsibilities, as defined in subsection (f) below, arising from the employee's role in his or her family or as head of the household may, upon request and in the absence of another more appropriate form of leave, be granted a Family Responsibility Leave for a period not to exceed one year. Such request shall not be unreasonably denied. Employees shall not be required to use any accumulated benefit time prior to taking Family Responsibility Leave.
b)	Any request for such leave shall be in writing by the employee reasonably in advance of the leave unless precluded by emergency conditions, stating the purpose of the leave, the expected duration of absence, and any additional information required by agency operations.
c)	Such leave shall be granted to any permanent fulltime, or part-time employee pursuant to the Family Medical Leave Act, except that an intermittent employee shall be non-scheduled for the duration of the required leave.
d)	"Family Responsibility" for purposes of this Section is defined as the duty or obligation perceived by the employee to provide care, fulltime supervision, custody or non-professional treatment for a member of the employee's immediate family or household under circumstances temporarily inconsistent with uninterrupted employment in State service.
Subject to the time limits of this Section and to the standards of Section 9(f) below, an employee, upon request, shall be permitted to work a part-time schedule unless to do so would interfere with the operating needs of the Agency. For purposes of the Memorandum of Agreement entitled PartTime Employees, the employee shall be considered a full-time employee.
e)	"Family" has the customary and usual definition for this term for purposes of this Section, that is:
1)group of two or more individuals living under one roof, having one head of the household and
usually, but not always, having a common ancestry, and including the employee's spouse;
f)
g)
2)such natural relation of the employee, even though not living in the same household, as parent, sibling or child; or
3)adoptive, custodial and "in-law" individuals when residing in the employee's household or any relative or person living in the employee’s household for whom the employee has custodial responsibility or where such person is financially and emotionally dependent on the employee and where the presence of the employee is needed but excluding persons not otherwise related of the same or opposite sex sharing the same living quarters but not meeting any other criteria for "family".
Standards for granting a Family Responsibility Leave are:
1)to provide nursing and/or custodial care for the employee's newborn infant, whether natural born or adopted for a period not to exceed one (1) year;
2)to care for a temporarily disabled, incapacitated or bedridden resident of the employee's household or member of the employee's family;
3)to furnish special guidance, care or supervision of a resident of the employee's household or a member of the employee's family in extraordinary need thereof;
4)to respond to the temporary dislocation of the family due to a natural disaster, crime, insurrection, war or other disruptive event;
5)to settle the estate of a deceased member of the employee's family or to act as conservator if so appointed and providing the exercise of such functions precludes the employee from working; or,
6)to perform family responsibilities consistent with the intention of this Section but not otherwise specified.
If an agency requires substantiation or verification of the need by the employee for such leave, the substantiation or verification shall be consistent with and appropriate to the reason cited in requesting the leave, such as:
1)	a written statement by a physician or medical practitioner licensed under the "Medical Practices Act" (225 ILCS 60 et seq.) or under similar laws of Illinois or of another state or country or by an individual authorized by a recognized religious denomination to treat by prayer or spiritual means, or by a person who holds a current national certification as a nurse practitioner. Such verification shall show the diagnosis, prognosis and expected duration of the disability requiring the employee's presence.
2)	written report by a social worker, psychologist, or other appropriate practitioner concerning the need for close supervision or care of a child or other family member;
3)	written direction by an appropriate officer of the courts, a probation officer or similar official directing close supervision of a member of the employee's household or family; or
4)	any reasonable independent verification substantiating that the need for such leave exists.
h)	Such leave may not be renewed, however a new leave may be granted at any time for any appropriate reason other than that for which the original leave was granted.
i)	If an agency has reason to believe that the condition giving rise to the given need for such leave no longer exists during the course of the leave, it should require further substantiation or verification and, if appropriate, direct the employee to return to work on a date certain.
j)	Failure of an employee, upon reasonable request by the employing agency, to provide such verification or substantiation timely may be cause, on due notice, for termination of the leave.
k)	Such leave shall not be used for the purpose of securing alternative employment. An employee during such leave may not be gainfully employed full time, otherwise the leave shall terminate.
l)	Upon expiration of a Family Responsibility Leave, or prior to such expiration by mutual agreement between the employee and the employing agency, the agency shall return the employee to the same or similar position classification that the employee held immediately prior to the commencement of the leave. If there is no such position available, the employee will be subject to layoff in
accordance with the Section on Voluntary Reduction and Layoff.
m)	Nothing in this Section shall preclude the abolition of the position classification of the employee during such leave nor shall the employee be exempt from the Section on Voluntary Reduction and Layoff by virtue of such leave.
n) The Employer shall pay its portion of the employee's health and dental insurance (individual or family) for up to six(6) months while an employee is on Family Responsibility Leave and also would qualify for a leave pursuant to the criteria set forth in the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
Section 10.	Leave for Union Office
The Employer shall grant requests for leaves of absence for not more than thirty (30) bargaining unit employees at any one time for the purpose of service as AFSCME representatives or officers with the International, State, or Local organization of the Union for up to a maximum of two (2) years each, provided the requests for such leave shall normally be made a minimum of five (5) working days prior to the effective date of the leave and the granting of such leave will not substantially interfere with the Employer's operations. Such leaves shall be in increments of no less than one (1) month. The number and length of such leaves may be increased or decreased by mutual agreement of the parties. Leaves currently in effect shall be extended for the duration of the Agreement if so requested.
Section 11.	Leave to Take Exempt Position
The Director of Central Management Services may approve leaves of absence for certified employees who accept appointment in a State position which is exempt from Jurisdiction "B" of the Personnel Code. Such leaves of absence may be for a period of one (1) year or less and may be extended for additional one (1) year periods.
Section 12.	Attendance in Court
Any employee called for jury duty or subpoenaed by a legislative, judicial, or administrative tribunal, shall be allowed time away from work with pay, except in matters of non-work related personal litigation, for such purposes. Upon receiving the sum paid for jury service or witness fees, the employee shall submit the warrant, or its equivalent, to the agency to be returned to the fund in the
State Treasury from which the original payroll warrant was drawn. Provided, however, an employee may elect to fulfill such call or subpoena on accrued time off and personal leave and retain the full amount received for such service. An employee called for reasons contained herein shall have such days considered as days worked for the purpose of scheduling and shall be given commensurate days off from work on his/her next scheduled work day(s) for any days which he/she would otherwise not have worked.
An employee subpoenaed by a legislative, judicial, or administrative tribunal for non-work related personal litigation shall be granted benefit time if such time is available. If benefit time is not available, the employee shall be granted an unpaid leave.
Section 13.	Leave to Attend Professional Meetings
Employees shall be granted reasonable amounts of leave with pay to attend professional meetings when related to state employment and approved in advance by the Employer.
Section 14.	Leave for Personal Business
A.	All employees shall be permitted three (3) personal days off each calendar year with pay. Employees entitled to receive such leave who enter service during the year shall be given credit for such leave at the rate of one-half (1/2) day for each two (2) months' service for the calendar year in which hired. Such personal leave may not be used in increments of less than two (2) hours at a time. Supervisors may however, grant employee requests to use personal leave in increments of one-half (1/2) hour after a minimum use of one (1) hour. Except for those emergency situations which preclude the making of prior arrangements, such days (or hours) off shall be scheduled sufficiently in advance to be consistent with operating needs of the Employer. Personal leave shall not accumulate from calendar year to calendar year; nor shall any employee be entitled to payment for unused personal leave upon separation from the service, unless such separation is due to retirement, disability or death, in which event the employee, or the employee's estate, as the case may be, shall be paid a lump sum for the number of days for leave for personal business which the employee had accumulated but not used as of the day his/her services were terminated, in an amount equal to one-half (l/2) of his/her pay per working day times the number of such leave days so accumulated and not used.
B.	When requested within current procedural guidelines, with reasonable advance notice, personal business days shall be granted, unless an emergency of an extreme nature would cause cancellation of such day off. When an employee is claiming an emergency situation in regards to use of a personal business day, the Employer has the right to inquire as to the nature of the emergency, although normally such inquiry would occur when reasonable grounds exist to suggest abuse, or if an operational emergency of an extreme nature exists.
The necessity of overtime assignment shall not be a consideration in the granting of requested personal time under this Section 14.
C.	If an employee claims the use of an emergency personal business day on holidays listed in this Agreement, or on the day before or day after said holiday, the Employer has the right, upon request, to require documentation of the emergency when reasonable grounds exist to suggest abuse.
Section 15.	Sick Leave
A.	All employees shall accumulate paid sick leave at the rate of one (1) day for each month's service. Sick leave may be used for illness, disability, or injury of the employee, appointments with a doctor, dentist or other professional medical practitioner (including a person who holds a current national certification as a nurse practitioner), and in the event of illness, disability, injury, appointments with a doctor, dentist or other professional medical practitioner (including a person who holds a current national certification as a nurse practitioner), or death of a member of an employee's immediate family or household. For purposes of definition, the "immediate family or household" shall be husband, wife, mother, father, brother, sister, children, grandchildren or any relative or person living in the employee's household for whom the employee has custodial responsibility or where such person is financially and emotionally dependent on the employee and where the presence of the employee is needed. Sick leave may also be used in the event of death of grandrelations and parent-and childin-laws. Such days may be used in increments of no less than one (1) hour at a time for RC-10, 14, 28, 42, 62 and 63 bargaining unit employees. For RC-6 and 9 bargaining unit employees, except for pre-scheduled office visits or examinations which may be charged against sick leave in one (1) hour increments, sick leave shall be used in one-half (l/2) day increments. For all bargaining units, supervisors may however, grant employee requests to use sick leave in increments of one-half (1/2) hour after a minimum use of one (1) hour. The Employer will not discipline an employee for
legitimate use of sick days if taken within procedural guidelines. The Employer may request evidence, which may be in the form of a written medical certification of use of sick leave if reasonable grounds exist to suspect abuse. If the Employer demands an additional form of proof, different than that which was furnished by the employee, and involves cost to the employee, the Employer shall pay the cost of such professional services when such verifies that the employee was not abusing sick leave. When the employee is directed to obtain such evidence during his/her hours of scheduled work, the employee shall be allowed time off without loss of pay or other benefits. Abuse of sick time is the utilization of sick days for reasons other than those stated in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Visits of two (2) days per year to a Veterans' hospital for examination needed because of military service connected disability shall be in pay status without charge to sick leave.
B.	Guidelines on Proof Status. At the time an employee is placed on proof status, the Employer will submit to the employee, in writing, the reasons for placing the employee on proof status.
C.	An employee who is in pay status for a minimum of 979 hours to a maximum of 1957.5 hours in a calendar year, shall be awarded the equivalent pro-rated value of one additional personal day on January 1st of each calendar year, if no sick time was used in the preceding twelve (12) month period, beginning on January 1st and ending on December 31st. Such additional personal day shall be liquidated in accordance with Section 14 of this Article. Overtime hours paid do not count towards the minimum and maximum hours above.
Section 16.	Payment in Lieu of Sick Leave
a)	Upon termination of employment for any reason, upon movement from a position subject to the Personnel Code to another State position not subject to the Code, or upon indeterminate layoff, an employee or the employee's estate is entitled to be paid at half rate for unused sick leave which has accrued on or after January 1, 1984, and prior to January 1, 1998, provided the employee is not employed in another position in State service within four (4) calendar days of such termination.
b)	For purposes of this Section sick leave is deemed to be used by an employee in the same order it is granted, that is, the earliest accrued sick leave is liquidated first.
Effective January 1, 1998, sick leave used by an employee shall be charged against his or her accumulated sick leave in the following order: first, sick leave accumulated before January 1, 1984; then sick leave accumulated on or after January 1, 1998; and finally sick leave accumulated on or after January 1, 1984 but before January 1, 1998.
c)	In order to determine the amount of sick leave to be paid upon termination of employment, the operating agency will: (i) compute the amount of sick leave granted to the employee on and after January l, 1984 and prior to January 1, 1998; (ii) compute the employee's leave balance at time of termination; and (iii) cause lump sum payment to be paid for one half of the amount of (i) or (ii), whichever is the lesser amount.
d)	In the event an employee has a negative sick leave balance when employment is terminated, no payment shall be made to the employee and the unrecouped balance due is canceled.
e)	An employee who is reemployed, reinstated or recalled from indeterminate layoff and who received lump sum payment in lieu of unused sick days may have such days restored by returning the gross amount paid by the State for the number of days to be so restored to the employee's sick leave account.
f)	An employee shall be allowed to carry over from year to year of continuous service any unused sick leave allowed under this Section and shall retain any unused sick leave or emergency absence leave accumulated prior to December 19, 1961.
g)	Accumulated sick leave available at the time an employee's continuous State service is interrupted for which no salary payment is made shall upon verification be reinstated to the employee's account upon return to full time or regularly scheduled part-time employment except in temporary or emergency status. This reinstatement is applicable provided such interruption of service occurred not more than five (5) years prior to the date the employee reenters State service and provided such sick leave has not been credited by the appropriate retirement system towards retirement benefits.
h)	An employee taking leave to provide nursing and/or custodial care for the employee's newborn infant, whether natural born or adopted, shall not be
required to use any amount of accumulated sick leave he/she does not request.
i)	The guidelines for enrollment and usage of Sick Leave Banks are enumerated in the Memorandum of Understanding entitled “Sick Leave Bank”.
Section 17.	Carry-Over
Employees shall be allowed to carry over from year to year of continuous service any unused sick leave allowed under this provision and shall retain any unused sick leave accumulated prior to the effective date of this Agreement.
Section 18.	Advances
Any employee with more than two (2) years continuous service, whose personnel records warrant it may be advanced sick leave with pay for not more than ten (10) working days with the written approval of the Employer. Such advances will be charged against sick leave accumulated later in subsequent service.
Section 19.	Service-Connected Injury and Illness
An employee who suffers an on-the-job injury or who contracts a service-connected disease, shall be allowed full pay during the first calendar week without utilization of any accumulated sick leave or other benefits. Thereafter, the employee shall be permitted to utilize accumulated sick leave. In the event such service-connected injury or illness becomes the subject of an award by the Industrial Commission, the employee shall restore to the State the dollar equivalent which duplicates payment received as sick leave days, and the employee's sick leave account shall be credited with the number of sick leave days used. An employee who suffers an on-the-job injury or who contracts a service-connected disease shall not be required to utilize any accumulated sick days prior to being granted an illness or injury leave under Section 21, below.
Employees whose compensable service connected injury or illness requires appointments with a doctor, dentist, or other professional medical practitioner shall with supervisor approval be allowed to go to such appointments without loss of pay and without utilization of sick leave.
Section 20.	Alternative Employment Program
The Employer will implement an alternative employment program for any employee who is able to perform alternative employment after a work related or non-work related disability which precludes that employee from performing his or her currently assigned duties pursuant to P.A. 84-876 as it pertains to Section 8c (6) of the Personnel Code.
Section 21.	Illness or Injury Leave
Employees who have utilized all their accumulated sick leave days (except as provided in Section 19 above) and are unable to report to or back to work because of the start of or continuance of their sickness or injury, including pregnancy related disability, shall receive a disability leave. During said leave the disabled employee shall provide written verification by a person licensed under the Illinois Medical Practice Act or under similar laws of Illinois (including a person who holds a current national certification as a nurse practitioner). Such verification shall show the diagnosis, prognosis and expected duration of the disability; such verification shall be made no less often than every thirty (30) days during a period of disability unless the nature of the illness precludes the need for such frequency. Prior to requesting said leave, the employee shall inform the Employer in writing the nature of the disability and approximate length of time needed for leave. The written statement shall be provided by the attending physician. If the Employer has reason to believe the employee is able or unable to perform his/her regularly assigned duties and the employee's physician certifies he/she as being able or unable to report back to work the Employer may rely upon the decision of an impartial physician as to the employee's ability to return to work. Such examination shall be paid for by the Employer. The Employer will not arbitrarily deny such leave request.
Section 22.	Treatment of Seniority
a)	A certified employee shall retain and continue to accumulate seniority and continuous service while on leaves provided for under this Article except those leaves under Section 21 accumulation shall not exceed three (3) years and Sections 1 and 2 where there shall be no accumulation of seniority and continuous service. A probationary employee serving an initial probation shall not accumulate seniority during such leave beyond the amount of time they have been employed with the State provided that such accumulation shall not reduce the probationary period.
b)	Seniority and continuous service for intermittents on leave of absence shall accrue by the ratio of hours paid to full time for the three (3) months prior to leave or the three (3) months prior to being involuntarily non-scheduled as a result of the 1500 hours limit if such limit was reached in the Cost Center during the three (3) months prior to the leave.
Section 23.	Employee Rights After Leave
When an employee returns from any leave of absence permitted by this Agreement, the Employer shall return the employee to the same or similar position in the same position classification in which the employee was incumbent prior to the commencement of such leave, seniority permitting. If the employee does not have the seniority, the layoff provisions of this Agreement shall apply.
Section 24.	Failure to Return from Leave
Failure to return from a leave of absence within five (5) days after the expiration date thereof may be cause for discharge, unless it is impossible for the employee to so return and evidence of such impossibility is presented to the Employer within five (5) days after the expiration of the leave of absence or as soon as physically possible.
Section 25.	Resolution of Leave Disputes
If a dispute is present regarding an employee's ability to perform his/her assigned duties, including light duty in agencies with such policies, the parties shall seek and rely on the decision of an impartial physician who is not a State employee and who is selected from a mutually agreed upon list maintained at the agency level.
In the case of a dispute involving service connected injury or illness, no action shall be taken which is inconsistent with relevant law and/or regulations of the Illinois Industrial Commission. Such determination shall pertain solely to an employee's right to be placed on or continued on illness or injury leave, including service connected illness or injury leave.
Section 26.	Maternity/Paternity Leave
All female bargaining unit members who show proof that they have received prenatal care in the first 20 weeks will be eligible for four (4) weeks (20 work days) paid maternity leave. Such proof shall be provided to the Employer no
later than the 24th week of pregnancy. All male bargaining unit members who show proof that their spouses have received prenatal care in the first twenty weeks, with notification to the Employer within 24 weeks, will be eligible for three (3) weeks (15 work days) of paid paternity leave. The State shall require proof of the birth and marriage for a noncovered spouse. Maternity and/or paternity leave shall be limited to one (1) leave per family for each birth.
All bargaining unit members are eligible for three (3) weeks (15 days) of paid leave with a new adoption, with the leave to commence when physical custody of the child has been granted to the member, provided that the member can show that the formal adoption process is underway. The agency personnel office must be notified, and the member must submit proof that the adoption has been initiated. Adoption leave shall be limited to one (1) leave per family per year.
ARTICLE XXIV
Personnel Files
Section 1.	Number, Type and Content
Only one (1) personnel file shall be maintained at a facility for each employee and the Agency shall have the right to maintain a personnel file at their central office. The Department of Central Management Services shall keep and maintain an official personnel file for employees, which shall contain no information not in the facility (work location) file. No other files, records or notations shall be kept by the Employer or any of its representatives except as may be prepared or used by the Employer or its counsel in the course of preparation for any pending case, such as an DHR or Civil Service matter or grievance. (RC-6-9-10-14-28-42-62 & 63)
A regional office personnel file may also be maintained by an agency. Such file, however, shall contain no information not in the work location file. (RC-10, RC-14, RC-28, RC-42, RC-62 & RC-63)
Section 2.	Supervisor's Files
An employee's supervisor may maintain a file pertaining to an employee which shall contain job related information only. It shall be the supervisor's responsibility to inform the employee of any detrimental material in the file that may affect the employee's performance evaluation. An employee may grieve over the factuality or propriety of any material in such file. Such files shall be confidential. Both parties agree that an employee's failure to challenge any material in such file does not justify the conclusion that the employee is in agreement with any such material. The file shall not follow the employee upon leaving the jurisdiction of the supervisor. However, nothing precludes the supervisor from conducting a performance evaluation (CMS-201) at the time an employee leaves his/her jurisdiction. Any detrimental material shall be removed from the file after twelve (12) months from the date of placement of such. Such files shall not contain a copy of any disciplinary action against an employee.
Section 3.	Employee Review
Employees and/or their authorized Union representatives if authorized by the employee shall have the right, upon request, to review the contents of their personnel files and supervisor's files. Such review may be made during working hours, with no loss of pay for time spent, and the employee may be accompanied by a Union representative if he/she so wishes. Reasonable requests to copy documents in the files shall be honored.
Section 4.	Employee Notification
A copy of any disciplinary action or material related to employee performance which is placed in the personnel file shall be served upon the employee (the employee so noting receipt), or sent by certified mail (return receipt requested) to his/her last address appearing on the records of the Employer. It is the obligation of each employee to provide the Employer with his/her current address.
Section 5.	Non-Job Related Information
Detrimental information concerning non-merit factors not related to the performance of job duties shall not be placed in an employee's personnel file, nor be placed in a supervisor's file so maintained for the employee.
Section 6.	Telephone Numbers
Upon request of the Employer, an employee shall provide the Employer with his/her current phone number. The Employer shall not release an employee's phone number and/or address to non-work related sources without the employee's permission.
Section 7.	Privacy
The Employer shall take the necessary steps to protect the integrity of employee information. Access to such information shall be limited to those individuals or entities for whom the information is essential. The Employer shall be able to identify persons or entities that have had access to the information. The parties recognize the Employer’s obligation to comply with Federal and State laws which help ensure the confidentiality of employees’ personal information including, but not limited to the Personnel Records Review Act (820 ILCS 40/0.01) and the
Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), (Pub. L. No. 104-191).
ARTICLE XXV
Working Conditions, Safety and Health
Section 1.	Safety and Health
The parties agree that joint labor/management safety and health committees for each work location shall promptly and regularly meet for the purposes of identifying and correcting unsafe or unhealthy working conditions which may exist considering the nature and requirements of the respective work locations, including:
(i)	Inadequate or insufficient lighting for the performance of bargaining unit work;
(ii)	Inadequate, insufficient or improperly marked first aid chests;
(iii)	Excessive noise levels;
(iv)	Inadequately supplied, unclean or unsanitary restrooms;
(v)	Inadequate personal security for employees;
(vi)	Inadequate or insufficient ventilation for the performance of bargaining unit work (this reference does not prejudice in any way the issues of smoking and non-smoking).
Where, following such meetings, agreement is reached as to the existence of the unsafe or unhealthy working condition, the Employer shall attempt to correct it within a reasonable time, utilizing existing budget funds. If no budget funds are then available, the Employer shall make provisions for such corrections in its next budget. Subject to the operating needs of the Employer and with reasonable advance notice, the Union shall have the right to have the premises inspected by an inspector of the Union’s choosing, at no expense to the Employer.
Where a clear and present danger exists, the Union may grieve at any time at Step 3.
In the event a grievance over this Section proceeds to Step 4 of the grievance procedure, the arbitrator shall determine:
(i)	Whether the claimed unsafe or unhealthy working condition exists;
(ii)	If so, whether the Employer's proposed remedy thereof is reasonable under the relevant circumstances.
If the arbitrator determines that the claimed unsafe or unhealthy working condition exists and the Employer's proposed remedy is unreasonable, he/she shall order it corrected and the Employer shall make every effort to correct it using the best means available to do it. Provided, however, that where funds for the remedy have not been budgeted, the Employer shall make every effort to secure the necessary funds to correct the condition.
Section 2.	State Health and Safety Program
The Employer shall provide a safe work environment consistent with the standards set by the Illinois Department of Labor.
The Employer and the Union shall act cooperatively to develop workplace violence programs designed to eliminate violence in the workplace.
Section 3.	Working Conditions
The Employer shall endeavor to provide:
(i)	Adequate lounge and/or eating areas, separated from patients, clients, and employees' normal areas of work, as agreed in local supplements.
(ii)	Prompt repair and service to mechanical equipment used by employees in the course of their normal work duties.
(iii)	All State owned or leased vehicles which fall under the Department of Central Management Services' Vehicle Rules shall undergo regular service and/or repair in order to maintain the vehicles in roadworthy, safe operating conditions.
Agencies shall have vehicles inspected by DCMS at least once per year and shall maintain vehicles in accordance with the schedules provided by DCMS or other schedules acceptable to DCMS that provide for proper care and maintenance of special use vehicles.
(iv)	The parties shall negotiate smoking policies, which may include smoke-free work places, through supplemental negotiations at the facility or agency level pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding entitled Supplementary Agreements. In addition, at any time during the term of this agreement, either party may propose smoking policies at a work location or site, or changes to such policies, which may include smoke-free work places. The parties shall negotiate for ninety
(90)	days, at which time either party may move the issue to arbitration pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding entitled Special Grievances. The Arbitrator shall consider the reasonableness of each party’s position.
Section 4.	Meals
a)	Employees shall be provided with free meals in accordance with the present practices and policies.
b)	RC-6 Only:
(i)The present practice with regards to providing meals for employees in work release facilities shall continue. All other employees working in other Department of Corrections facilities shall be entitled to at least one (1) free meal, provided by the Employer during the course of their normal shift hours.
(ii)Employees working in Juvenile facilities may be provided with more than one (1) free meal dependent upon the present practices and policies.
c)	Other meals shall be provided in accordance with the present travel regulations of the Department of Central Management Services.
Section 5.	Damage to Personal Property
In accordance with the current agency practices and the amounts provided for thereunder, Employees shall be reimbursed for the cost of any personal property destroyed or damaged in the line of duty. The Employer will also endeavor to provide a secure place for storing wearing apparel.
Upon request, agency labor/management meetings may review the establishment or revision of conditions for reimbursing employee claims deriving from damages to or destruction of personal property articles by the direct action of residents or clients against the person of the employee, including time limits for reporting and rates of reimbursement.
Section 6.	Privacy
Subject to security requirements the Employer shall respect the privacy of an employee's personal belongings.
Section 7.	Hazardous Traveling Conditions
Where extreme weather conditions, in the Department of Central Management Services' judgment, require early dismissal, all employees within the same geographical area shall be treated equally subject to the operating needs of the agency.
Section 8.	Communicable Disease
In case of a suspected outbreak of a communicable disease, the Employer shall offer tests for such within the appropriate affected area, at no cost to the employees, where it gives such tests to the residents.
In cases of suspected exposure to TB or Hepatitis B, the Employer shall offer free testing, shots and time off to DCFS and DHS employees in the affected area.
Section 9.	Equipment and Clothing
Protective equipment and wearing apparel, as required by the Employer, shall be provided and cleaned by the Employer, and shall be made by workers represented by a bona fide labor organization, unless no bidders whose employees are represented by a bona fide labor organization respond to the public bid notice.
(RC-42 and Site Technicians I and II) Any such protective equipment and wearing apparel given to certain employees for certain tasks and assignments shall similarly be given to all employees at different work sites performing the same tasks and assignments. (The parties further agree that such shall be applicable to all bargaining units in the Department of Natural Resources)
All Revenue Special Agents will be provided a bullet proof vest and a weapon by the Employer, at no cost to the employee.
Section 10.	Video Display Terminals/Cathode Ray Equipment
The Employer and the Union will attempt to keep current with monitoring studies and reports on the effects, if any, of visual display terminals and their setting on the health and safety of the operators. The parties also agree to summarize any relevant findings and disseminate them to user agencies and health and safety committees.
When an Agency purchases new office equipment utilized by personnel operating VDTs, it shall contain glare screens, chairs with adjustable heights and back rests, foot rests and adjustable tables for holding keyboards.
Pregnant employees and employees who are nursing and who regularly operate VDTs may, upon request, be permitted to adjust or otherwise change assignment, if such adjustment or change can reasonably be made and is consistent with the state's operating needs.
If such adjustment or change cannot be made, the employee shall, upon request, be granted illness or appropriate leave, for the duration of the pregnancy and/or nursing, pursuant to the appropriate Leave of Absence provision.
Section 11.	Aircraft Pilots only (RC-62)
The Employer shall reduce to writing a "Flight Operations Manual" with a copy to each Pilot and the Union. The Union will be allowed reasonable opportunities to meet and have input in the creation of the manual or any subsequent change prior to its adoption and implementation.
Section 12.	Hearing Tests for Telecommunicators/Call Takers
Effective July 1, 1997, the State will provide a hearing test on site, once per year, for all Telecommunicators and Call Takers, at no cost to the employee.
ARTICLE XXVI
Job Classifications
Section 1.	Position Requirements
In all Position Classification Specifications covered by this Agreement where the word "desirable" does not precede the word "requirements" such shall be added so as to read "desirable requirements," so as to provide for equivalencies, except where statutory standards, accreditation standards, or bona fide standards as defined by the parties in a Memorandum of Understanding, do not allow such.
Section 2.	Assignment Within Classification Specifications
The phrase "performs other duties as required or assigned" under "Illustrative Examples of Work" in the Position Classification Specifications covered by this Agreement shall be changed to read as follows: "performs other duties as required or assigned which are reasonably within the scope of the duties enumerated above."
Section 3.	Job Descriptions
The Employer agrees, upon request, to provide for a review of an employee's job description and specification by the employee and/or the Union at the local level.
After such review, the Employer further agrees, upon request, to provide the employee and the Union with a copy of the employee's job description (CMS-104).
When changes are made in an employee’s job description, a copy of the revised job description shall be provided to the employee.
Section 4.	Changes in the Position Requirements
When requirements for a class are revised and the duties and responsibilities of positions comprising the class remain essentially unchanged, incumbents in these positions who qualified under the previous requirements for the class shall be considered qualified.
Any proposed changes in job specifications shall be provided to the Union at least twenty-one (21) days prior to their submission to the Civil Service Commission.
Section 5.	Position Classification
The Employer may, subject to the provisions of Article XIV, Temporary Assignment, temporarily assign an employee to perform the duties of another position classification. When the time limits set forth in Article XIV expire, the Employer may terminate the duties or establish a new position at the appropriate classification.
In cases when the new position is established at an equal rated or higher classification than that of the temporarily assigned employee, the position is declared vacant, and it shall be posted subject to the provisions of Article XIX, Filling of Vacancies. If the employee who has been temporarily assigned is not selected for the posted vacancy, the employee shall have the right to be placed in a vacant position equal to his/her current classification, if the employee meets the minimum training and experience requirements of the position including bona fide skills, if any, required for the position pursuant to this Agreement. If no such vacancy exists within the employee's official organizational unit, the employee shall displace the least senior employee in his/her classification within such unit and the least senior employee shall be subject to the provisions of Article XX, Layoff. If the temporarily assigned employee is the least senior within the employee's classification, the employee shall be subject to the provisions of Article XX, Layoff.
If the employee who has been temporarily assigned is selected for the posted vacancy, the employee shall have his/her creditable service date adjusted to reflect the first date on which he/she was temporarily assigned without interruption.
In cases when the new position is established at a classification lower than that of the temporarily assigned employee, the least senior employee in the same classification as the temporarily assigned employee within the official organizational unit shall be assigned to the lower level position, and the temporarily assigned employee shall be transferred to the least senior employee's former position, if there are not sufficient vacancies in the employee's original classification.
In all cases when the employee is moving to an equal or lower level position, such actions shall not be subject to the provisions of Article XIX, Filling of Vacancies. Should the employee elect not to accept any of these options or none of the options exist, the employee shall be laid off, subject to the provisions of Article XX, Layoff. When an employee is placed in a lower level position, the employee's rate of pay in the original position shall be frozen for 12 months from the effective date of the placement in the lower level position.
The above conditions do not apply to the implementation of classification studies.
Section 6.	New Classifications and Reclassification
Where classification studies are conducted to evaluate whether a new position classification/series should be established, and such is established, the incumbents in an existing position classification whose duties are encompassed within the new or another existing position classification specification or training provided therefore, shall be reclassified accordingly. Thereafter, permanent vacancies in the new position classification shall be posted as permanent vacancies. Additionally, classification study procedures may be used to retitle or reclassify an entire position classification/series wherein the job duties and responsibilities of such position classification/series have changed and increased over time.
Section 7.	Reallocation and Investigation Procedures
The reallocation and investigation procedures shall not be used by the Employer to fill permanent vacancies occurring in position classifications within the bargaining unit.
Section 8.	New Classifications
The Employer shall promptly notify the Union of its decision to propose to the Civil Service Commission any and all new classifications at least twenty-one (21) days prior to making its recommendation to the Commission. If the parties agree that the proposed new classification is a successor title to a classification covered by this Agreement, with no substantial change in duties, the Union and the Employer shall file a stipulated unit clarification petition with the Illinois State Labor Relations Board to ensure that the new classification becomes a part of this Agreement.
If the proposed new classification contains a significant part of the work now done by any of the classifications in these bargaining units, or whose functions or community of interests are similar to those bargaining units, the Union will notify the Employer within thirty (30) days of its receipt of the Employer's notice, and the parties will then meet within fifteen (15) days of such notice to review the position classification. If the Union and the Employer are able to reach agreement on the inclusion of the position classification in a unit, they shall submit a stipulated unit clarification petition to the Illinois State Labor Relations Board.
Once the inclusion of the proposed position classification has been found appropriate by the Illinois State Labor Relations Board, the parties shall negotiate as to the proper pay grade for the classification and its appropriate series and series placement. If no agreement is reached after a period of negotiations which shall not exceed 90 days from the date of the Illinois State Labor Relations Board decision, the Union may, appeal the position classification as containing substantially the same duties as an existing position classification, the pay grade and/or the appropriate series to arbitration pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding entitled “Special Grievances”. The arbitrator shall determine the reasonableness of the proposed salary grade in relationship to:
a)	The job content and responsibilities attached thereto in comparison with the job content and responsibilities of other position classifications in the classification series and in the bargaining unit;
b)	Like positions with similar job content and responsibilities within the labor market generally;
c)	Significant differences in working conditions to comparable position classifications.
d)	The equitable relationship between classifications in and out of the bargaining unit.
The pay grade originally assigned by the Employer shall remain in effect pending the arbitrator's decision.
If the decision of the arbitrator is to increase the pay grade of the position classification, such rate change shall be applied retroactive to the date of its installation.
Upon installation of the new position classification, the filling of such position classification shall be in accordance with the posting and bidding procedures of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXVII
Evaluations
Section 1.	Informal Conferences
The Union and the Employer encourage periodic informal evaluation conferences between the employee and his/her supervisor to discuss work performance, job satisfaction, work-related problems and the work environment. If work performance problems are identified, the supervisor shall offer constructive suggestions and shall attempt to aid the employee in resolving the problem.
Section 2.	Written Evaluations
It is the intent of the Employer to conduct ongoing evaluations as provided in Section 1 above. However, the Employer shall prepare two (2) written evaluations on employees who are serving an original probation or a probation as a result of promotion - one evaluation at the midpoint of the probationary period and one two (2) weeks prior to the end point of such probation. In addition, the Employer may prepare periodic evaluations of certified employees.
Except where present practice provides otherwise, Written evaluations shall be prepared by the Employee's supervisor who is outside the bargaining unit and who either has first-hand knowledge of the employee's work or has discussed and received recommendations from someone who does. The evaluation shall be limited to the employee's performance of the duties assigned and factors related thereto. The evaluation shall be discussed with the employee, and the employee shall be given a copy immediately after completion and shall sign the evaluation as recognition of having read it. Such signature shall not constitute agreement with the evaluation. Upon an employee’s request, the notation of discipline shall be corrected or amended in the performance evaluation, based upon any applicable grievance resolution.
The performance evaluation may be adjusted by upper levels of supervision with the understanding that such changes shall be discussed with the employee and the employee shall be given the opportunity to not concur and/or comment on the appropriate section of the evaluation form regarding the changes and shall be given a copy of the revised evaluation.
ARTICLE XXVIII
Employee Development and Training
Section 1.	Policy
A. RC-6, 9, 10, 14, 28, 42, 62 and 63.
The Employer and the Union recognize the need for the training and development of employees in order that services are efficiently and effectively provided and employees are afforded the opportunity to develop their skills and potential. In recognition of such principle the Employer shall endeavor to provide employees with reasonable orientation with respect to current procedures, forms, methods, techniques, materials and equipment normally used in such employees' work assignments and periodic changes therein, including where available and relevant to such work, procedural manuals. The Employer hereby subscribes to the principles of career ladders and promotions within its organization.
Agency practices of allowing employees who hold a job required professional certificate to attend continuing education courses or seminars, without loss of pay, to maintain such certificates shall continue.
Section 2.	Courses of Instruction
The Employer will request funding for a budget of at least $20 per employee per fiscal year for purposes of tuition reimbursement. Employees will be entitled to reimbursement subject to the availability of these funds for tuition expenses for academic courses, seminars, workshops and conferences that are determined by the Employer to be job related. All such reimbursements are subject to verification by the employee and subsequent approval from the Employer. Employees whose job requires a license or certification which requires them to attend classes or take courses shall have the cost of such classes and coursework covered by the available Upward Mobility funds consistent with guidelines established by the Upward Mobility Advisory Committee.
Current agency practice with respect to the tuition reimbursement policies and taking of paid time off for courses of instruction shall remain in full force and effect.
The employing agency agrees to pay up to $200 for ARDC and Bar Association fees for Technical Advisors and Hearing Referees.
Section 3.	Trainee Programs
The Employer agrees that its trainee programs shall be implemented and administered in accordance with Personnel Rules 302.170 and 302.180. Employees shall receive first consideration for entry into trainee programs prior to new hires. However, nothing in this Section precludes the Employer from filling trainee positions with new hires.
Section 4.	Opportunities for the Disabled
Wherever possible, the Employer will allow disabled employees to use alternative techniques, aids and appliances, in order that such employees may fully use their skills as necessary for their duties. The provision of such aids and appliances or reimbursement therefore shall be subject to local level supplemental negotiations.
Section 5.	Training Information
The Employer reserves the right to establish a file for training purposes. The employee shall be given notice of such file and shall have the right to review the contents, subject to reasonable advance notice.
ARTICLE XXIX
Sub-Contracting
Section 1.	Policy
A. RC-6, 9, 10, 14, 28, 42, 62 and 63.
It is the policy of the Employer to make every reasonable effort to utilize its employees to perform work they are qualified to do, and to that end, the Employer will avoid, insofar as is practicable, the subcontracting of work performed by employees in the bargaining unit. However, the Employer reserves the right to contract out any work it deems necessary or desirable because of greater efficiency, economy, or other related factors. The Employer may not use individual personal service contracts deemed illegal by the Civil Service Commission.
Section 2.	Application
The Employer agrees that upon formal consideration to subcontract any work performed by bargaining unit employees, it shall:
a)	Provide reasonable advance notice, in writing, to the Union;
b)	Meet with the Union prior to making a decision to contract for the purpose of discussing the reasons for its proposal. During this discussion, the Union will be granted reasonable requested opportunities to meet with the Agency.
c)	When contemplated sub-contracting of bargaining unit work would subject an employee to layoff, the Employer shall provide the opportunity to the affected employees to fill existing equal rated permanent vacancies at the work location, other work locations of the agency, or other agencies, in that order. If the above placement in the employee's agency cannot be accomplished without training, the Agency will provide an opportunity for in-service training to employees who possess the qualifications and ability for the vacancies except for that which they might lack and might be provided by in-service training. Such training shall be consistent with the agency's budget, program goals, statutory directives and related factors. The parties agree to meet prior to the sub-contracting for the purpose of attempting to reach agreement over any necessary changes in the Filling of Vacancies procedure of the Agreement in an effort to help facilitate this provision.
Section 3.	Successors
Prior to the sub-contracting of work, the Employer will make a reasonable effort with the contractor to insure that employees subject to layoff because of sub-contracting secure employment with the contractor. The Employer, the Union, and the proposed sub-contractor shall meet to discuss the employment of employees subject to layoff.
ARTICLE XXX
Injury in Line of Duty
Section 1.	Department of Corrections, Veterans’ Affairs, and Human Services, Office of Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities, and Residential Schools within the Office of Rehabilitation Services
Whenever any employee of the Department of Corrections, Veterans’ Affairs, or the Department of Human Services, Office of Mental Health and Developmental Disabilities, and Residential Schools within the Office of Rehabilitation Services, employed on a full-time or parttime basis suffers any injury in the line of duty as a direct or indirect result of resident or student violence which causes him/her to be unable to perform his/her duties, such employee shall continue to be paid on the same basis as he/she was paid before the injury, with no deduction from sick leave credits, compensatory time or overtime accumulated, vacation, or service credit with a public employees pension fund during the time he/she is unable to perform his/her duties due to the result of the injury but no longer than one (1) year in relation to the same injury and all applicable benefits shall continue during such period as if he/she were at work. Any salary compensation due from Workmen's Compensation or any salary due from any type of insurance which may be carried by the Employer shall revert to the Employer during the time for which continuing compensation is paid. This Section shall be extended to any other bargaining unit employee upon enactment of legislation to that effect.
After the one year period stated above or if the employee was not injured in the line of duty, the provisions of Section 20 of the Leave of Absence Article shall apply.
Section 2.	Department of Children and Family Services
This Article shall also apply to any employee of the Department of Children and Family Services, employed on a full-time or part-time basis, who suffers an injury as a direct or indirect result of violence perpetrated by a client, or any individual who is a member of the family or household that is under investigation or receiving follow-up services, when such employee is in the course of conducting the investigation or providing the services when such injury causes the employee to be unable to perform his/her duties.
Section 3.
An employee who suffers an injury or illness pursuant to this Article who would otherwise later qualify for Employer insurance payments under Article XXIII, Section 9 n) shall have such payments made on his/her behalf.
ARTICLE XXXI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 1.	Union/Agency Agreements on Workloads
The parties agree that the Employer has the right to establish reasonable workload standards and productivity levels. In agencies where such standards of productivity measurements exist, they shall be reduced to writing, with copies to the employees and the Union. Changes in workload standards or productivity measurements, or the creation of such, shall be discussed with the Union prior to implementation. Failure to meet workload standards and productivity levels which have been established in accordance with this Section may subject the employee to Employer action as provided in Article IX. Nothing in this section shall preclude a supervisor from prioritizing work or addressing work performance deficiencies.
Section 2.	Wage Assignments and Garnishments
The Employer shall not impose disciplinary action against an employee for any wage assignments or garnishments. Where the Employer seeks to recoup overpayment to employees, it shall be at no greater rate than allowed under the Garnishment Laws and subject to the Rules and Regulations of the Office of the Comptroller.
Section 3.	Affirmative Action
The Union has the right to appoint a representative on all Affirmative Action Committees.
Section 4.	Rehabilitation
In accordance with the principles of the State of Illinois, the Employee Assistance Program as outlined in the April 1974 booklet of that title and amended by the Governor's October 1978 letter and policy statement, the Employer shall make aware and offer referral for diagnosis and treatment to employees experiencing alcohol, drug or emotional problems.
Section 5.	Notification of Leave Balances
On a date prior to July 1 of each year, all employees shall be given a statement of all leave balances (sick leave, vacation, personal days, accumulated and compensatory time). Where current practice provides for more frequent notification of such balances, it shall prevail.
Section 6.	Printing of the Agreement
The Employer shall have this contract printed in booklet form with agreed upon Memoranda of Understanding and covered employees shall be provided a copy of such. The Union shall receive extra copies as they may require and shall pay for the cost of their copies.
Section 7.	Travel (RC-42 and Site Technicians I and II)
Employees will not be required to furnish their own vehicles for job functions necessitating specialized vehicles, and normally will not be required to furnish their own vehicles for other job functions for which the Employer currently provides vehicles. Travel Control Board rules shall govern the use of personal vehicles and per diems.
Section 8.	Educators' Fringe Benefits (RC-63)
The parties agree that past practices and policies of the Employer relating to sick leave, and leave for personal business, as negotiated for Educators working an academic (school year) schedule, shall continue.
Section 9.	Commercial Drivers License
The Employer will reimburse employees required to possess a Commercial Drivers License for the cost of such license.
Section 10.	Public Service Quality Involvement Committees
Employee involvement committees which seek to improve the quality of service provided to the public and/or the quality of work life for employees may be established in any State agency by mutual agreement of the parties. Each party shall determine its own representatives to serve on such committee. Union designated bargaining unit employees shall participate in such committees without loss of pay. No such committees may take action on matters pertaining to wages, hours or conditions of employment.
Section 11.	Reasonable Accommodations Under the Americans with Disabilities Act
In the event a permanently disabled bargaining unit employee seeks a reasonable accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Union has the right to discuss with the Employer issues regarding such proposed reasonable accommodations and the impact on specific provisions of the collective bargaining agreement. However,
such discussions shall not impede the Employer from fulfilling its obligations under the Act. Only those reasonable accommodations which conflict with the collective bargaining agreement shall require the written consent of the Union.
Section 12.	Supplementary Agreements
All supplemental agreements or memorandums of understanding, or other agreements shall be considered tentative agreements until approved by Central Management Services and the Union.
No supplementary agreement or Memorandum of Understanding or Agreement may be entered into that conflicts with the Master Contract without the approval of CMS and the Union.
Section 13.	Disposition of Work During Absences
The parties may by mutual agreement negotiate in agency supplementals the disposition of work in an employee’s absence. In any event, an employee’s authorized absence shall not be detrimental in any way to the employee’s record, nor will the employee be disciplined or counseled for work unable to be completed based on the employee’s authorized absence.
Section 14.	Docking
The amount of salary deducted from an employee whose daily salary is docked shall be pursuant to 80 Il. Admin. Code 310.70 (b).
Section 15.	Fitness for Duty
When the Employer has requested a fitness for duty evaluation which determines the employee is unfit for duty and the employee’s physician certifies the employee is fit for duty, the Employer may rely upon the decision of the impartial physician as to the employee’s fitness for duty. Such examination shall be paid for by the Employer.
ARTICLE XXXII
Wages and Other Pay Provisions
Section 1.	Wage Schedule
The negotiated pay rates for position classifications covered by this Agreement are set forth in Schedule A and shall become the rates of pay applicable to such position classifications.
Section 2.	Promotions/Voluntary Reductions
When an employee is promoted, he/she shall be paid at the lowest step rate in the new position classification which represents at least a full step increase in his/her former classification. Longevity pay, as provided in Article XXXII, Section 6(e), shall be included in an employee’s rate of pay when determining whether a step represents a full step increase. If a promoted employee’s creditable service date is within 90 days of the effective date of the promotion, the Employer shall also include the projected service increase in the computation of the promotional salary increase.
The salary of an employee who voluntarily requests a reduction during a probationary period following a promotion will be reduced to the same salary step in the lower salary range from which the employee was promoted and the employee’s previous creditable service date will be restored.
An employee who takes a position in a trainee classification which represents a reduction shall have his/her salary red-circled at the rate of the former classification.
Section 3.	Shift Differential
Employees shall be paid a shift differential of 52 cents per hour in addition to their base salary rate for all hours worked if their normal work schedule for that day provides that they are scheduled to work and they work half or more of such work hours before 7 a.m. or after 3 p.m. Such payment shall be for all paid time.
Effective July 1, 2001, employees shall be paid a shift differential of 57 cents per hour in addition to their base salary based on the above criteria.
Effective July 1, 2002, employees shall be paid a shift differential of 62 cents per hour in addition to their base salary based on the above criteria.
Effective July 1, 2003, employees shall be paid a shift differential of 67 cents per hour in addition to their base salary based on the above criteria.
Incumbents who currently receive a percentage shift differential providing more than the cents per hour indicated above based on the base rate of pay prior to the effective date hereof shall have such percentage converted to the cents per hour equivalent rounded to the nearest cent and shall continue to receive such higher cents per hour rate.
This Section shall not apply to employees who because of "flex-time" scheduling made at their request are scheduled and work hours which would otherwise qualify them for premium pay hereunder.
Section 4.	Steps
Employees shall receive a step increase to the next step upon satisfactory completion of twelve months creditable service.
Intermittent employees shall receive a step increase to the next step, upon satisfactory completion of the applicable number of hours in the standard work year of creditable service.
Educators who submit the appropriate documentation to the Employer which validates that the employee has attained the necessary requirements for a change in lanes shall be placed in the new lane in the next pay period during which the employee works.
Section 5.	Severance Pay
RC-6, 9, 10, 14, 28, 42, 62 and 63
Where a facility closes permanently or a separately appropriated and funded program is permanently terminated, employees affected thereby with two (2) or more years seniority and on the agency's payroll at the time of such closure or termination, or who were previously laid off as a direct result of such closure or termination, not offered another bargaining unit position as defined below within sixty (60) days of such closure or termination and within fifty (50) miles of the employee's work location, shall be offered severance pay in the amount of one (1) month's compensation at their monthly rate of pay in effect at the time of such closure or termination. Provided, however,
that an employee who elects to remain on the layoff list for a period in excess of six (6) months, or who obtains another bargaining unit position, or who refuses an appropriate position offered by the Employer within his/her position classification series (or if his/her classification is the only one in its series, within a comparable classification) shall forfeit any severance pay which is due under this Section. If an employee accepts severance pay he/she shall be considered terminated under Article XVIII, Section 3.
Section 6.	General Increases
a)	Pursuant to the terms set forth in Article XIII, Section 3, effective January 1, 2005, the pay rates for all bargaining unit classifications and steps shall be increased by 2.00% for employees on the standard pension formula and 2.75% for employees on the alternative pension formula, which rates are set out in Schedule A.
b)	Effective July 1, 2005, the pay rates for all bargaining unit classifications and steps shall be increased by 2.00%, which rates are set out in Schedule A.
c)	Pursuant to the terms set forth in Article XIII, Section 3, effective January 1, 2006, the pay rates for all bargaining unit classifications and steps shall be increased by 3.00% for employees on the standard pension formula and 3.75% for employees on the alternative pension formula, which rates are set out in Schedule A.
d)	Effective July 1, 2006, the pay rates for all bargaining unit classifications and steps shall be increased by 3.00%, which rates are set out in Schedule A.
e)	Effective January 1, 2007, the pay rates for all bargaining unit classifications and steps shall be increased by 1.00%, which rates are set out in Schedule A.
f)	Effective July 1, 2007, the pay rates for all bargaining unit classifications and steps shall be increased by 3.00%, which rates are set out in Schedule A.
g)	Effective January 1, 2008, the pay rates for all bargaining unit classifications and steps shall be increased by 3.00%, which rates are set out in Schedule A.
h)	Effective July 1, 1994, the Step 7 rate shall be increased by $25.00 per month for those employees who attain ten (10) years of continuous service and have three (3) or more years of creditable service on Step 7 in the same or higher pay grade on or before January 1, 2002. For those employees who attain fifteen (15) years of continuous service and have three (3) or more years of creditable service on Step 7 in the same or higher pay grade on or before January 1, 2002, the Step 7 rate shall be increased by $50.00 per month.
Effective January 1, 2002, the Step 8 rate shall be increased by $25.00 per month for those employees who attain ten (10) years of continuous service and have three (3) or more years of creditable service on Step 7 in the same or higher pay grade on or before January 1, 2002. For those employees who attain fifteen (15) years of continuous service and have three (3) or more years of creditable service on Step 7 in the same or higher pay grade on or before January 1, 2002, the Step 8 rate shall be increased by $50.00 per month.
For employees not eligible for longevity pay on or before January 1, 2002, the Step 8 rate shall be increased by $25.00 per month for those employees who attain ten (10) years of continuous service and have three (3) or more years of creditable service on Step 8 in the same or higher pay grade. For those employees who attain fifteen (15) years of continuous service and have three (3) or more years of creditable service on Step 8 in the same or higher pay grade, the Step 8 rate shall be increased by $50.00 per month.
i)	Employees whose salaries are above the maximum Step rate will continue to receive all applicable general increases and any other adjustments (except [h], above) as provided for in this Agreement. For these employees, the increase provided for in (h) above shall be limited to the amount that would increase the employee’s salary to the amount that is equal to that of an employee on the maximum Step rate with the same number of years of continuous and creditable service.
j)	Notwithstanding anything above, employees receiving longevity pay shall continue to receive such pay as long as they remain in the same or successor classification as a result of a reclassification or reevaluation.
Section 7.	Step 8
a)	Effective January 1, 2002, a Step 8 shall be established for each pay grade at a pay rate 1% higher than the Step 7 rate in each pay grade.
b)	Effective January 1, 2003, the Step 8 rate for each pay grade shall be increased to a pay rate 2% higher than the Step 7 rate in each pay grade.
c)	Effective January 1, 2004, the Step 8 rate shall be increased to a pay rate 3% higher than the Step 7 rate in each pay grade.
d)	Effective July 1, 2007, the Step 8 rate shall be increased to a pay rate 4% higher than the Step 7 rate in each pay grade.
e)	Effective January 1, 2002, employees with twelve (12) months or more of creditable service on Step 7 on or before that date shall be placed on Step 8.
f)	Employees who are eligible for longevity pay pursuant to Section 6 (h) of this Article on or before January 1, 2002, shall continue to receive longevity pay after being placed on Step 8 while they remain in the same or lower pay grade.
g)	Employees not eligible for longevity pay pursuant to Section 6 (h) of this Article on or before the date they are placed on Step 8 shall begin to receive longevity pay after three (3) years or more of creditable service on Step 8.
Section 8.	Classifications/Upgrades
Effective July 1, 2004, the salaries for the following titles shall each be upgraded one pay grade:
Day Care Licensing Representative I Day Care Licensing Representative II Hearing Referees
Hearing Referees - Intermittent Metrologist Associate
Effective July 1, 2005, the salaries for the following titles shall each be upgraded one pay grade:
Aircraft Pilot II, Option C
Flight Safety Coordinator Licensed Practical Nurse I Licensed Practical Nurse II Physical Therapy Aide I Physical Therapy Aide II Rehabilitation Case Coordinator I
Rehabilitation Case Coordinator II
Effective July 1, 2006, titles shall each be upgraded
the salaries for the following one pay grade:
Corrections Residence Counselor
Disability Claims Analyst
Human Rights Investigator I Human Rights Investigator II Human Rights Investigator III
Incumbent employees shall be placed on the step nearest to but greater than their current step upon the effective date as set forth above.
If such adjustment results in less than a full-step increase, the incumbent employees shall have no change in their creditable service date.
If such adjustment results in more than a full-step increase, the incumbent employee shall have a new creditable service date of July 1 in the year in which the upgrades are effective.
All upgrades under this section are reflected in the salary ranges set forth in Schedule A.
Section 9.	Special Rates
Pending a final determination of the rates of pay for a new classification where some jobs go from the merit compensation system into the bargaining unit, on the effective date an employee's salary shall be placed at the salary step closest to but no less than the current salary. If the salary exceeds Step 8, it shall be red-circled at its current rate and shall receive contractual adjustments during the interim pending final determination of rates.
Where an individual position is returned to the bargaining unit into an existing classification, the employee's salary shall be treated as provided above.
All standard transactions (promotions, reallocation, etc.) from merit classes to unit classes are handled under the applicable Pay Plan and contract provisions.
Section 10.	Bi-lingual Pay
Effective July 1, 2000, positions whose job descriptions require the use of sign language, or which require the employee to be bi-lingual, or which require the employee to use Braille, shall receive $100.00 per month or 5.0% of their monthly base salary whichever is greater in addition to the rates of pay set forth in this agreement.
Section 11.	Court Reporters
Court Reporters and Industrial Commission Reporters shall receive the same schedule of charges for transcripts of evidence and proceedings as the Court Reporters whose charges are adopted by the Illinois Supreme Court.
Section 12.	Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans’ Affairs
Licensed Practical Nurses who are directed to perform additional lead worker and/or program duties in the absence of a Registered Nurse shall receive 5.0% temporary assignment pay effective July 1, 1994 and an additional 5.0% July 1, 1995 for those hours so assigned.
Section 13.	Maximum Security
All employees with seven or more years of continuous service with the Department of Corrections who are currently employed at Department of Corrections maximum security institutions shall be placed on the maximum security schedule as long as they remain employees at a maximum security facility.
Section 14.	Academic Year Educators
Beginning with the 2000-2001 school year, steps and pay rates for Academic Year Educators at the Illinois School for the Visually Impaired and Illinois Center for Rehabilitation and Education Roosevelt shall be increased in accordance with Schedule A.
Section 15.	Direct Deposit
Effective July 1, 2004, all paychecks for new hires will be delivered via direct deposit.
ARTICLE XXXIII
No Strike or Lockout
Section 1.	No Strike
During the term of this Agreement there shall be no strikes, work stoppages or slow downs. No officer or representative of the Union shall authorize, institute, instigate, aid or condone any such activities.
Section 2.	Employer/Employee Rights
The Employer has the right to discipline, up to and including discharge, its employees for violating the provisions of this Article.
Section 3.	No Lockout
No lockout of employees shall be instituted by the Employer or their representatives during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXXIV
Authority of the Contract
Section 1.	Partial Invalidity
Should any part of this Agreement or any provisions contained herein be Judicially determined to be contrary to law, such invalidation of such part or provision shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof and they shall remain in full force and effect. The parties shall attempt to renegotiate the invalidated part or provisions. The parties recognize that the provisions of this contract cannot supersede law.
Section 2.	Effect of Department of Central Management Services Rules and Pay Plan
Unless specifically covered by this Agreement, the Rules of the Department of Central Management Services and its Pay Plan shall control. However, the parties agree that the provisions of this Agreement shall supersede any provisions of the Rules and Pay Plan of the Director of Central Management Services relating to any subjects of collective bargaining contained herein when the provisions of such Rules or Pay Plan differ with this Agreement. In the event the Director of Central Management Services proposes to change an existing Rule or Pay Plan provision of the Department of Central Management Services, and such Rule or Pay Plan provision does not cover a matter contained in this Agreement, the Union shall be notified of such proposed change and shall have a right to discuss and negotiate over the impact on wages, hours, and conditions of employment, if any, of the change prior to its effective date.
Section 3.	Increase or Decrease of Benefits
In the event the Director of Central Management Services unilaterally grants an increase in fringe benefits to every and all non-AFSCME bargaining unit employees subject to the Personnel Code, such increase shall be made applicable to the employees covered by this Agreement. Reduction in benefits, however, shall not be made applicable, and the provisions of this Agreement shall apply.
Section 4.	Waiver
The parties acknowledge that during the negotiation which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter within the area of
collective bargaining as defined in P.A. 83-1012 and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement.
However, the Employer agrees that during the period of this Agreement, it shall not unilaterally change any bona fide past practices and policies with respect to salaries, hours, conditions of employment, and fringe benefits enjoyed by members of the bargaining units without prior consultation and negotiations with the Union. Where past practice conflicts with the express terms of the contract, the contract shall prevail. In order to qualify as a bona fide past practice, such practice must be (1) unequivocal, (2) clearly enunciated and acted upon, and (3) readily ascertainable over a reasonable period of time as a fixed and established practice accepted by both parties.
ARTICLE XXXV
Termination
This Agreement shall be effective July 1, 2004, and shall continue in full force and effect until midnight June 30, 2008, and thereafter from year to year, unless not more than 180 days, but not less than 60 days prior to June 30, 2004, or any subsequent June 30, either party gives written notice to the other of its intention to amend or terminate this Agreement.
Appendix A. Effective July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2008
Section 1.	QUALITY CARE HEALTH PLAN (QCHP)
A.	Self-Insured Plan
The State shall maintain the self-insured QCHP for the duration of this Agreement.
The QCHP will cover routine annual physical examinations and required immunizations for children through age six, according to the recommendations by the U. S. Preventive Services Task Force.
Annual pap smears, including associated office visit charges for women over age 18 (or younger if medically appropriate) will be covered by the QCHP.
Routine physical exams for adults over age 18 will be covered according to the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommended schedules, up to a limit of $250 per exam. Exams will be covered once every three years for adults under age 50, and annually for adults age 50 and over.
Required school physicals for children entering both the fifth and ninth grade will be covered.
For all of the routine physical exams discussed in this section, physician office charges, except as provided in Section D, or other professional fees will be covered at 80%. All laboratory, immunization, x-ray, screening tests, etc. associated with these routine physical examinations will be covered at 90%. The annual QCHP deductible shall not apply to any charges associated with these routine physical examinations. All preventive services are subject to usual and customary charge review and adjustment.
B.	Pre-Admission Notification and Authorization
1)	Under the QCHP, all non-emergency hospital, partial program, inpatient hospice and skilled care facility admissions, as well as all surgical procedures except those that are performed in a physician’s office, will require pre-admission notification and authorization from the State’s utilization management vendor. The vendor will have the responsibility for determination of those medical services which require second surgical opinions, as well as authorizations for hospital, hospice, partial program and skilled care facility admissions and continued stays.
2)	For emergency admissions, authorization must be obtained within 48 hours after admission. Services incurred after the initial 48 hours without authorization will not be reimbursed unless medically necessary.
1
3)	If the patient fails to notify the utilization management vendor, reimbursement for the related medically necessary covered expenses will be reduced by $800. Benefits are limited to those covered services that are determined by the vendor to be medically necessary.
C.	Medical Case Management (MCM) Program
1)	The utilization management vendor shall provide case management services for members or dependents with catastrophic or chronic high cost illnesses. These cases shall be identified and referred to case management by the utilization management vendor, claims administration contractor, a provider, a group insurance representative in an agency, or a family member.
2)	The utilization management vendor shall evaluate the member or dependent’s treatment setting, level of care and intensity of service. The member shall be contacted by the case management professional who will describe the program and make recommendations for settings and/or providers of care. The member will have the option of following or not following the recommendation.
3)	In skilled nursing cases, however, the Department will be responsible only for paying equal to the amount the Department would have paid for the recommended treatment plan/providers. Charges will be limited to the lesser of the amount of charges for home health care or the amount of charges for skilled nursing facility in the same geographic region.
4)	Those refusing MCM will be notified that coverage may be terminated under the plan for treatment of the illness for which they were referred to MCM.
D.	Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) Program
Employees, retirees, and their covered dependents that receive inpatient services at a PPO hospital will have the $200 per admission deductible waived. Employees and their covered dependents who receive services at a PPO network hospital or from a PPO physician will be responsible for coinsurance of 10% of the negotiated rate.
Employees and their covered dependents who live less than 25 miles from a preferred provider hospital qualified to perform the required medical services who choose not to utilize a PPO hospital will be responsible for a $200 admission deductible and coinsurance of 35% of the eligible hospital charges.
The $200 admission deductible and 35% coinsurance amounts will be applied dollar-for-dollar toward the annual non-PPO out-of-pocket maximum for non-PPO hospitals of $3,500 per year per individual, $7,000 per year per family. Effective on July 1, in 2005, 2006, and 2007, the out-of-pocket maximum per individual per year shall increase $300 each year. The family out-of-pocket maximum shall be two times the individual maximum for each year.
2
Employees who do not live within 25 miles of a PPO hospital qualified to perform the medical services, or who are admitted to a non-PPO hospital in an emergency will be responsible for a 20% copayment and a $200 admission deductible.
E.	QCHP Benefits
Except as noted below, covered medical expenses are subject to the following deductibles and coinsurance amounts:
1)	Effective July 1, 2004, the annual employee deductible will be $200 per fiscal year for employees with annual salaries of $54,800 or less; $300 per fiscal year for employees with salaries from $54,801 to $68,600; and $350 per fiscal year for employees with salaries of $68,601 or more. Effective July 1, 2005, and July 1, 2007, the employee deductible for each of the above-defined brackets will be increased by $50 each year.
Effective July 1, 2004, the annual deductible for all dependents will be $200 per dependent. Effective July 1, 2005, and July 1, 2007, the annual deductible for all dependents will increase by $50 each year.
Deductibles for a family will be limited to two and a half times the employee deductible for each year.
The salary thresholds will be adjusted annually prior to the Benefit Choice period to reflect the lower of the increase in the Consumer Price Index from the most recent monthly report available or the cost of living adjustment effective on July 1 to wages included in this Agreement. The employee’s salary on April 1 shall govern the deductible category for the next fiscal year.
2)	The inpatient hospital deductible is $200 per admission to a non-PPO hospital. There is no deductible for admission to a PPO hospital.
3)	There is a deductible of $200 for each visit to any hospital emergency room. Effective July 1, 2005, and July 1, 2007, the hospital emergency room deductible is increased by $100 each year.
4)	Except for services and fees as explained in Sections A and D, the plan will pay 80% of all allowable charges. The employee will pay 20% of the allowable charges for covered expenses up to the out-of-pocket maximum. The plan will pay 100% of the allowable charges in excess of the out-of-pocket maximum or covered expense level.
5)	The out-of-pocket maximums for eligible expenses (including deductibles and coinsurance, but excluding any penalties for failure to consult or follow the advice of the State’s utilization management vendor and non-PPO deductibles and coinsurance), will be $800 per individual, $2,000 per family.
3
Effective on July 1, in 2005, 2006, and 2007, the out-of-pocket maximum per individual per year shall increase $100 each year. The family out-of-pocket maximum shall be two and a half times the per individual maximum for each year.
6)	The member will pay the appropriate dependent premium for the plan that is selected. The member and all dependents enrolled under that member must be in the same health and dental plans.
7)	Other Provisions
a.	Hospital charges, emergency room visits, diagnostic lab and x-ray charges, professional fees, and outpatient surgery charges will be subject to the annual QCHP deductible. The deductible will not apply for mammograms, second surgical opinions, or professional fees or lab/x-ray/diagnostic tests/immunizations associated with the routine physical examination or well-baby care benefits.
b.	All expenses related to outpatient surgery will be covered at the normal coinsurance rate for each type of medical provider or service. Outpatient surgery in locations other than a physician’s office requires a call to the utilization management vendor in order to avoid the $800 penalty.
c.	Charges for allowable services through PPO hospitals and/or PPO physicians will be paid at 90% of the negotiated rate.
d.	The plan will pay 100% of the charges for a second surgical opinion, if required by the utilization management vendor. If the second opinion does not confirm the need for surgery, the plan will pay for a third opinion.
e.	The patient auditor program for hospital bills will continue for the duration of the agreement. The Hospital Bill Audit Benefit provides that if the employee should discover an error or an overcharge in the hospital bill and obtain a corrected bill from the hospital, the employee will be paid 50% of the resulting savings up to a maximum of $1,000 per admission. This provision does not apply to PPO hospitals with discounted per diem charges, unless the number of days of treatment is in error.
f.	Reimbursement for participation in a smoking cessation program will be 100% of the cost, up to an annual maximum of $200.
g.	Medically necessary services for physical and language therapy will be covered expenses under the plan either as inpatient or outpatient care, when provided by a licensed or certified therapist or physician. Effective July 1, 2006, chiropractic services are limited to a total of 30 visits per plan year.
4
8)	The Plan will cover 90% of the reasonable and customary fee for outpatient surgery facility charges at PPO hospitals and PPO freestanding surgical centers. Such facilities must be licensed by the Illinois Department of Public Health and meet guidelines established by the Quality Care Health Plan administrator.
F.	Behavioral Health Services
1)	Members may receive in-network outpatient benefits as follows:
a.	Outpatient behavioral health services shall be covered at 100%, subject to a member copayment of $15 per outpatient visit, when the member and/or eligible dependent is referred to network providers for treatment by the Behavioral Health Vendor or PSP.
b.	In addition to the usual outpatient behavioral health benefits provided by the QCHP, the following services will be reimbursed at levels described above: Stress Management and Personal/Family Counseling.
2)	Under the QCHP, outpatient behavioral health services for those members and dependents not referred through the Behavioral Health Vendor or PSP shall be provided the out-of-network benefit as follows:
50% copayment per visit, with the State payment not to exceed $35 per visit and no more than 50 visits per year. Treatment must be provided by a licensed providers including psychiatrists, psychologists, Licensed Clinical Social Workers (LCSWs), Licensed Marriage and Family Therapists (LMFTs), and Licensed Clinical Professional Counselors (LCPCs).
3)	All inpatient, partial hospitalization, and intensive outpatient behavioral health services must be authorized by the Behavioral Health Vendor. Inpatient behavioral health services are provided at 100% at approved PPO facilities, subject only to a $50/day copayment, limited to $275 per admission. Services at non-PPO facilities are covered at 60% coinsurance, with the member responsible for the $50/day copayment, $250 per admission.
Intensive Outpatient/Partial Hospitalization behavioral health services are provided at 100% at approved PPO facilities, subject only to a $25/day copayment, limited to $125 per admission. Services at non-PPO facilities are covered at 60% coinsurance, with the member also responsible for the $25/day copayment, $125 per admission.
G.	Transplant Coverage
1)	Subject to the benefit provisions of the plan, organ and bone marrow transplants will be covered by the Department at $100 deductible and 20% coinsurance for covered services, when determined to be non-experimental and when performed at
5
a QCHP PPO transplant facility. No coverage for transplants performed at non-PPO facilities will be available. This does not apply to corneal transplants.
2)	To be eligible for transplant benefits, the member must contact the State’s utilization management vendor for transplant approval. The State will pay for the evaluation of the member and/or eligible dependent at a specific PPO Transplant facility. The transplant will be approved or denied as a result of this evaluation on the basis of whether it is viable and non-experimental. With authorization from the utilization management vendor, the member may seek a second opinion from another PPO transplant facility, if available.
H.	Hospice Care
Hospice care, subject to benefit provisions of the plan, is available as described in the State of Illinois Benefits Handbook. Hospice care requires notification to the utilization management vendor who will authorize the appropriate level of care.
I.	Skilled Nursing Services
1)	Skilled nursing services will be covered only for those members and dependents who have had their nursing care, including skilled nursing care to be provided in the home, authorized by the utilization management vendor. Medicare primary members and dependents are required to notify the utilization management vendor for hospital stays and admission to skilled care facilities. An $800 penalty will apply to members/dependents who do not notify the utilization management vendor to authorize skilled care and/or hospital stays.
2)	For all skilled care services, the member may choose to receive care at home or in an extended care facility. However, the Department will pay the lesser of home health care treatment or care in a licensed skilled care facility within the same geographic region.
J.	Infertility Benefits
Benefits are provided for the diagnosis and treatment of infertility pursuant to the State of Illinois Benefits Handbook.
K.	Employee Contributions for the QCHP
1)	Effective July 1, 2004, employees enrolled in the QCHP with salaries of $27,300 or less per year will pay $36.00 per month for health plan coverage, unless the employee is on leave of absence as enumerated in the State of Illinois Benefits Handbook. Employees with salaries of $27,301 but not more than $41,200 will pay $41.00 per month for such coverage. Employees with salaries of $41,201 but not more than $54,800 will pay $43.50 per month for such coverage. Employees with salaries of $54,801 but not more than $68,600 will pay $46.00 per month for such coverage.
6
Employees with salaries of more than $68,601 per year will pay $48.50 per month for such coverage.
Effective July 1, 2005, July 1, 2006, and July 1, 2007, monthly premiums for each of the above-defined brackets will be increased by $10.00, $8.00, and $6.00, respectively.
The salary thresholds will be adjusted annually prior to the benefit choice period to reflect the lower of the increase in the Consumer Price Index from the most recent monthly report available or the cost of living adjustments effective on July 1 to wages included in this Agreement. The employee’s salary on April 1 shall govern for the next fiscal year.
2)	Effective July 1,2004, member contributions for dependent coverage will be $150.00 per month for one non-Medicare dependent, $180.00 per month for two or more non-Medicare dependents, $96.00 per month for one Medicare primary dependent, and $157.00 per month for two or more Medicare primary dependents.
Effective July 1, 2005, July 1, 2006, and July 1, 2007, member contributions for dependent coverage will increase $12.00, $12.00, and $10.00, respectively, for each of the above categories.
Section 2.	HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (HMOs)
A.	HMO Plan
The State will continue to offer enrollment in HMOs. Transfers among HMOs and between HMOs and the QCHP be made once a year during the State-designated benefits choice period. Transfers will be permitted without regard to the employee’s age or number of previous transfers.
B.	HMO Benefits
The major benefits provided by State contracted HMOs will be as follows:
1)	Copayments
$150 per hospital, hospice, or extended care facility admission. Effective July 1, 2005, and July 1, 2006, the amount will increase by $50 in each year.
$100 per outpatient surgery. Effective July 1, 2007, the amount will increase by $50.
$100 or 50% whichever is less per emergency room use. Effective July 1, 2005, and July 1, 2006, the amount will increase by $50 in each year.
$10 per Physician Visit. Effective July 1, 2006, the amount will increase by $5.
$15 Home Health Care Visit effective July 1, 2005. Effective July 1, 2006, this amount will increase by $5
7
2)	Inpatient Services: 100% coverage after copayment
3)	Skilled Care Facility, Home Health Care and Hospice Care: 100% coverage, after applicable copayments, with specific limitations imposed by each HMO.
4)	Emergency Room Services: 100% coverage after copayment
5)	Professional Charges: 100% after copayment
6)	Physicals and Well Baby Care: 100%
7)	Psychiatric Care*
Inpatient: Full coverage subject to hospital and emergency room copayments specified above to 30 days per year.
Outpatient: 20% copayment per visit with maximum of 20 visits per year.
8)	Durable Medical Equipment: 20% copayment
9)	Prosthetic Devices: Full Coverage
10)	Clinical Treatments; Diagnostic Lab and X-ray: 100% coverage
11)	Infertility Treatments as required by State Law
*Alcohol and substance abuse program limitations vary among HMOs.
C.	Employee Contributions for the HMO Plans
1)	Employees will be responsible for paying a portion of the HMO employee-only premiums. Effective July 1, 2004, employees with salaries of $27,300 or less per year will pay $27.00 per month for health plan coverage. Employees with salaries of more than $27,301 but not more than $41,200 will pay $32.00 per month for such coverage. Employees with salaries of more than $41,201 but not more than $54,800 will pay $34.50 per month for such coverage. Employees with salaries of more than $54,801 but not more than $68,600 will pay $37.00 per month for such coverage. Employees with salaries of more than $68,601 per year will pay $39.50 per month for such coverage.
Effective July 1, 2006, and July 1, 2007, monthly premiums for each of the above-defined brackets will be increased by $4.00 each year.
Employees who reside in Illinois who do not have access to managed care will pay the managed care employee premium for QCHP coverage.
The salary thresholds will be adjusted annually prior to the benefit choice period to reflect the lower of the increase in the Consumer Price Index from the most recent monthly report available or the cost of living adjustments effective on July 1 to wages included in this Agreement. The employee’s salary on April 1 shall govern for the next fiscal year.
2)	Effective July 1, 2004 employee contributions for managed care plan dependent premiums shall be frozen at the weighted average Fiscal Year 2004 dollar amounts for Fiscal Year 2005.
8
Effective July 1, 2006, and July 1, 2007, the prior year weighted average employee contribution for managed care dependent premiums shall be increased by $4.00 each year.
Employees who reside in Illinois who do not have access to managed care and enroll dependents will pay the appropriate weighted average managed care dependent premium for QCHP coverage.
Section 3.	PRESCRIPTION DRUG BENEFITS
The State shall provide a managed pharmaceutical care program carved out from certain of the health plans offered to members. These health plans shall be specified each year during the Benefit Choice period with copayment amounts as described below. Any self-insured HMO or other self-insured managed care plan shall provide the maintenance medication program on the same basis as set out in Section 3 (A), but applying the copayment amounts as set out in Section 3 (B). Maintenance medication is medication taken for chronic conditions as determined by the Pharmacy Benefit Manager (PBM).
A.	QCHP Prescription Drug Program
Effective July 1, 2004, the prescription drug benefit for the QCHP shall have copayments at retail of $8.00 generic, $16.00 formulary brand, $32.00 non-formulary brand. Refills of maintenance medications at mail order and/or at any PBM-contracted network retail pharmacies willing to participate in the maintenance medication program on the terms and conditions of the network agreement with the State’s PBM shall be available (as defined by the PBM) with copayments of $16.00 generic, $32.00 formulary brand, and $64.00 non-formulary brand for a three-month supply. After the initial two 30-day fills, maintenance medications obtained at a retail pharmacy not participating in the maintenance medication program shall have copayments of $16.00 generic, $32.00 formulary brand, and $64.00 non-formulary brand for each 30-day supply. If an enrollee elects a brand name drug where a suitable generic is available, the member is responsible for the generic copayment plus the difference in cost between the brand name drug and the generic equivalent. Brand name drugs for which the generic equivalents have not proven to be effective clinical substitutions based on generally accepted clinical literature and/or medical research shall be treated as generics.
Effective July 1, 2005, July 1, 2006, and July 1, 2007, the copayments at nonparticipating retail shall increase each year $1.00 generic, $2.00 formulary brand and $4.00 non-formulary brand and the copayments for a 90-day supply of maintenance medications at mail order and/or at any PBM-contracted network retail pharmacies willing to participate in the maintenance medication program on the terms and conditions of the network agreement with the State’s PBM shall increase each year $2.00 generic, $4.00 formulary brand, and $8.00 non-formulary brand. After two 30-day fills, maintenance medications obtained at a retail pharmacy not participating in the
9
maintenance medication program shall increase each year $2.00 generic, $4.00 formulary brand, and $8.00 non-formulary brand for each 30-day supply.
B.	HMO Prescription Drug Program
Effective July 1, 2004, the prescription drug benefit for HMOs shall have copayments at retail of $7.00 generic, $14.00 formulary brand, $28.00 non-formulary brand. Refills may be available for maintenance drugs for three-month supplies as defined and administered by the HMOs’ Pharmacy Benefit Manager. If an enrollee elects a brand name drug where a suitable generic is available, the member is responsible for the generic copayment plus the difference in cost between the brand name drug and the generic equivalent. Brand name drugs for which the generic equivalents have not proven to be effective clinical substitutions based on generally accepted clinical literature and/or medical research shall be treated as generics.
Effective July 1, 2005, the copayments at retail shall increase by $2.00 generic, $4.00 formulary brand, and $8.00 non-formulary brand.
Effective July 1, 2006, the copayments at retail shall increase by $1.00 generic, $2.00 formulary brand, and $4.00 non-formulary brand.
Section 4.	DENTAL COVERAGE
The State shall offer the Quality Care Dental Plan (QCDP).
A.	Contributions
Employees who elect to participate in the QCDP will be required to pay $7.50 per month. In addition, employees who have one dependent enrolled in a State-sponsored health plan may elect to cover that dependent in the QCDP, for a total contribution of $12.50 per month. Employees who have two or more dependents enrolled in a State-sponsored health plan may elect to cover those dependents under the QCDP for a total contribution of $15.00 per month. Effective July 1, 2005, the contribution levels for all categories are increased by $2.50.
B.	Benefit Levels
The benefit levels for the QCDP will be determined from a statewide fee schedule equivalent to reasonable and customary charges statewide for all services covered under this Section, with the exception of periodontia, orthodontia, surgical extractions, and fixed and removable prosthetics, which will have a benefit level equal to 50% of reasonable and customary charges statewide. On July 1, 2004, the QCDP schedule of maximum benefits shall reflect the most current usual and customary data, based on a statewide average. Thereafter, the schedule of maximum benefits will be
10
reviewed every two years, and adjusted based on the most current statewide usual and customary data available at that time.
1)	Covered services are shown below.
a)	Diagnostic and Preventive Services:
Initial oral exam
Periodic oral exam
X-rays
Prophylaxis/Fluorides
Pediatric Sealants
b)	Restorative Services:
Amalgam fillings, 1 to 4 surfaces
Composite fillings, 1 to 4 surfaces
Crowns
c)	Oral Surgery:
Simple extractions (non-surgical)
Additional single extractions
Surgical extractions
Oral Biopsy
Alveoplasty
Frenectomy
General anesthesia, including intravenous sedation (where medically necessary)
d)	Endodontal Services:
Root canal - anterior, bicuspid, molar
Pulp capping
Pulpotomy
e)	Periodontal Services:
Gingivectomy or gingivoplasty
Root planing
Mucogingival surgery
Osseous surgery
f)	Fixed and Removable Prosthetics:
Full dentures
Partial dentures
Bridges
g)	Orthodontic Services:
Comprehensive treatment
Minor Treatment
2)	The maximum benefit available is $2,000 per person per year. A benefit year begins on each July 1 and ends on the following June 30.
3)	Orthodontia is limited to $1,500 per course of treatment, and is only available to persons age 18 and under except that orthodontic treatment of deciduous teeth is not covered.
11
4)	There is a $50 per person per year QCDP deductible on all covered services except preventive and diagnostic services. Effective July 1, 2005, the deductible is increased by $50.
5)	Effective July 1, 2007, QCDP shall cover inlays, onlays, dental implants and adult dental sealants.
Section 5.	VISION COVERAGE
All employees and eligible dependents enrolled in a State-sponsored health plan will be provided with a State-paid Vision Benefit Plan.
Vision benefits will be available once every 24 months, with the exception of the eye exam, which is available once every 12 months. Member copayments will not exceed the following:
$10 for the exam
$10 for lenses
$10 for standard frames
In addition, there will be an allowance of $100 toward the cost of contact lenses in lieu of standard frames with lenses.
Standard frames are defined as all frames with a $50.00 average wholesale cost.
Benefits at non-network providers shall be as follows:
$30 benefit for the exam
$40 benefit for single vision lenses
$60 benefit for bifocals and trifocals
$50 benefit for frames
$100 benefit for contact lenses in lieu of standard frames with lenses
Section 6.	DISPUTE RESOLUTION
Dispute over claims that are not resolved by the appropriate plan administrator, with whom the Department has contractual authorization to resolve disputes, may be appealed to the Department of Central Management Services appeal committee, after remedies through the plan administrator are exhausted. For any appeal by a bargaining unit employee, a designated union representative may, as designated by the employee, be a member of the committee. The union shall provide the employer with prior notification of the union representative who shall serve as a member of the committee. The employee shall have the right to refuse participation by the union.
12
Section 7.	JOINT LABOR/MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON INSURANCE BENEFITS
A.	The State and AFSCME agree to continue the joint advisory committee on health care benefits. The committee will continue to study cost containment provisions and explore proposals to expand health and ancillary benefits that do not reduce existing benefits, or shift costs to employees. The committee will review any problems with the claims administration of the State’s self-insured plan. The committee will review the State’s Panel of Physicians for treatment of work-related injury and illness and may make joint recommendations with respect to enhanced utilization of the Panel of Physicians.
B.	The committee will meet on a quarterly basis unless mutually agreed otherwise.
Section 8.	TERM LIFE INSURANCE
The State will provide basic term life insurance equal to 100% of the employee’s salary, at premiums to be paid by the State. Effective July 1, 2004, employees may purchase, subject to medical underwriting requirements of the Vendor, up to eight (8) times their annual salary for optional (member paid) term life insurance and $10,000 in term life insurance for spouses and children.
Section 9.	WELLNESS
Flu vaccines for members will be covered under this program.
Section 10.	COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS) employees shall have access to TB (tuberculosis) testing and hepatitis B vaccine at no cost to the employee. The method for administration of this benefit will be determined jointly by CMS and DCFS.
Section 11.	BENEFIT CHOICE PERIOD
The annual Benefit Choice period will be held during the month of May.
Section 12.	LAID OFF EMPLOYEES
Certified employees on layoff status shall retain health, dental, and vision insurance coverage for a period of one month per year of service, with a minimum of six
13
months and a maximum of twenty-four months following the effective date of the layoff with the Employer paying the full premium, single or family plan as appropriate. Employees who convert to intermittent or part-time status as a result of a layoff shall have their first year of health, dental, vision, and life insurance coverage treated as if they continued to work as a full time employee.
Section 13.	FURLOUGHED EMPLOYEES
Employees in furlough status at the Illinois School for the Deaf and Illinois School for the Visually Impaired shall retain health, dental, and vision coverage during scheduled summer breaks with the Employer paying the full premium, single or family plan as appropriate.
Section 14.	PORTABILITY
The employer will comply with the health insurance portability provisions of the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.
Section 15.	TRANSIT BENEFIT PROGRAM
The employer shall provide a pre-tax payroll deduction program for transportation expenses in accordance with and to the extent permitted by the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21).
Section 16.	PAID LEAVE FOR ORGAN TRANSPLANT DONOR
The employer shall grant up to six (6) weeks of leave with pay for living donors of organs including, but not limited to, kidneys, bone marrow, or any other organ that may be transplanted.
Section 17.	HEARING BENEFITS
Effective July 1, 2005, the employer shall provide benefits for hearing exams and hearing aids, up to a maximum of $100 for audiologist fee(s) and up to a maximum of $500 for hearing aid(s), limited to once every three years.
Section 18.	SAME SEX DOMESTIC PARTNERS
Effective July 1, 2006, a domestic partner of the same sex shall be considered eligible for coverage under the health, dental and vision plans. The State will require reasonable proof of the domestic partnership. For purposes of this Section, a domestic
14
partner is defined as an unrelated person of the same sex who has resided in the employee’s household and has had a financial and emotional interdependence with the employee, consistent with that of a married couple for a period of not less than one (1) year, and continues to maintain such arrangement consistent with that of a married couple. The benefit will be administered in accordance with all applicable state and federal laws.
15
APPENDIX B - MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING
Bargaining Unit Exclusion Procedure
The process enumerated herein exits to allow the Employer and the Union to come to an agreement on changes in excluded or included status of existing permanent positions, either filled or vacant, within titles covered by the bargaining unit. The parties intend to use this process to avoid litigation before the Illinois Labor Relations Board (ILRB) regarding changes in status of certain positions and regarding status of vacant positions the State is contemplating filling.
1.	If the Employer intends to exclude a vacant position from the Bargaining Unit, or the Union intends to include a previously excluded position in the Bargaining Unit, the moving party will notify the other party via fax or phone of its intent. The Employer/Union will provide information to the other party, such as the reason for the inclusion/exclusion, the affected Agency involved, the position number, the incumbent (if applicable), the job description, or any other documentation deemed relevant by the parties. The Employer/Union will respond, in writing, as to its position regarding the information within ten (10) working days.
2.	If the parties reach an agreement regarding the inclusion or exclusion of a position, a joint unit clarification petition on that position will be filed with the ILRB. The parties shall operate as if the petition has been granted pending certification of the petition.
3.	If the parties do not reach agreement and the issue is scheduled for hearing, the parties’ representatives shall have further discussions to attempt to reach an agreement. If no agreement can be reached, the hearing will proceed as scheduled
4.	For “split titles” that exist as of the date of this Side Letter, the parties agree to file joint petitions within 90 days of the date of this Side Letter to amend the ILRB certifications so that all positions within said titles are included within the AFSCME bargaining units, with the exception of those positions specifically identified as excluded.
5.	The Parties agree that those individual positions currently excluded from AFSCME bargaining units by existing labor board certifications shall continue to be excluded in the petitions referenced in paragraph four above. Both Parties reserve the right to seek labor board determination to resolve any remaining dispute over positions that are inappropriate for inclusion or exclusion.
Executed: September 22, 2004
Bumping of a Trainee Employee
The parties agree that during the implementation of Article XX, Section 3 (c) through (h) (bumping), an employee in a trainee position classification within the classification series or an employee in a trainee position classification who has a targeted title to a position within a classification series of an employee subject to layoff shall be included in the bumping process.
Executed: July 1, 2004
Call-Back Pay
It is understood by the parties that any employee called back to work outside his/her regularly scheduled shift shall be paid a minimum of 2 hours pay each and every time he or she is required to go out, that is to leave the employee's residence and return to the worksite or area of assignment.
Executed: July 1, 1986
Renewed: July 1, 2004
CLASSIFICATION STUDY
The Employer shall begin a classification study prior to January 1, 2006 for the following titles:
Accountant and Accountant Advanced in the Department of Transportation’s
Motor Fuel Unit
Office Assistants and Office Associates (Timekeeping and Payroll)
Social Worker III (Forensic)
The Employer shall begin a classification study prior to January 1, 2006 to research the feasibility of semi-automatic advancement for the Office Assistant to Office Associate.
Executed: July 1, 2004
Closure of a Facility
It is understood by the parties that within sixty (60) days of the Employer's announcement of the closure or conversion of a facility (facility as defined in Definition of Terms d)2)), the parties agree to negotiate over such matters that may impact upon employees covered by this agreement on questions of wages, hours and other conditions of employment.
Executed: July 1, 1986
Renewed: July 1, 2004
COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE
Employees may only be required to possess a commercial driver’s license if it is required by the classification specification, or if it is a bona fide requirement in the job description. Employees whose position requires possession of a commercial driver's license or who the Employer requires to operate a vehicle requiring a commercial driver's license pursuant to the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act shall be provided reasonable time off without loss of pay to participate in training the employee might need to prepare for passage of the commercial driver's test and to take the test itself.
The Employer shall also make available its vehicles to employees who shall be granted reasonable amounts of time without loss of pay to practice for the driving portion of the commercial driver's test.
Employees shall be permitted to continue employment in their position even if they have not passed the commercial driver's test as long as the law allows them to continue operating their assigned vehicle(s).
Employees who are not permitted by law to operate their assigned vehicle because of their failure to pass the commercial driver's exam shall be considered as subject to layoff for the purposes of exercising transfer or voluntary reduction rights pursuant to Article XX, Section 3b of the Master Agreement, but shall not be entitled to rights pursuant to Article XX, Section 3a through 3i.
Employees who are unable to exercise rights under Article XX, Section 3b of the Master Agreement shall be terminated and entitled to recall, only if they possess the necessary driver's license, or to a position in which previously certified, for a period not to exceed two years. It shall be the employees' obligation to inform the Employer that they have received the license.
Executed July 1, 1991
Renewed: July 1, 2004
CDL DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
The parties agree in order to protect the safety of employees and the public, the workplace should be free from the risk posed by employees impaired by the abuse of alcohol and controlled substances. While the parties recognize that abuse of alcohol and controlled substances is a treatable illness, employees found to be impaired while on duty shall be subject to discipline.
Employees who, because of the requirements of their position, are required to possess a Commercial Driver’s License (CDL), shall be subject to drug and alcohol testing according to the following:
Employees Bidding on Positions Requiring a CDL: An employee covered by the Master Contract who bids on position requiring a CDL shall be subject to the same drug testing procedures as employees currently in a position requiring a CDL. If such an employee tests positive, the employee shall be discharged.
Post-accident: Where the accident involved the loss of human life or the employee received a citation for a moving traffic violation arising from the accident.
Random: Annual testing of safety-sensitive employees for alcohol and controlled substances pursuant to the guidelines utilized by the Federal Department of Transportation.
Reasonable Suspicion: As provided in this Agreement.
Testing Procedures: All testing procedures shall meet no less than the minimum standards established under the U.S. Department of Transportation regulations.
Employee Notification: Employees subject to this Memorandum shall receive a copy of the Memorandum.
Reasonable Suspicion: Reasonable suspicion exists if specific objective facts and circumstances warrant rational inferences that a person may be under the influence of alcohol or a banned substance. Reasonable suspicion may be based upon among other matters:
a.
Observable phenomena such as direct observation of use or the physical symptoms of using or being under the influence of controlled substances
such as, but not limited to: slurred speech, direct involvement in a serious accident, or disorientation.
b.	A pattern of abnormal conduct or erratic behavior.
c.	Information provided either by reliable and credible sources or which is independently corroborated.
Positive Test Results: All drug and alcohol test results will be reviewed and interpreted by a Medical Review Officer (MRO). If the laboratory reports a positive result to the MRO, the MRO will contact the employee and will interview the employee to determine if there is an alternative medical explanation for the drugs found in the employee’s urine specimen. If the employee provides appropriate documentation and the MRO determines that it is legitimate medical use of the prohibited drug, the drug test result is reported as negative to the Employer. The employee will be required to sign a release of information in the event that a physician must be contacted for clarification or verification.
Nothing precludes an employee from seeking reimbursement costs for a test pursued by the employee which proves the employee was not positive as indicated in the original test.
Confidentiality of Records: Records concerning testing of employees will be maintained confidentially.
Refusal to Test: Refusal to submit to a test, attempts to tamper or adulterate the test, or positive results which cannot be justified will be considered a positive finding.
Discipline: If just cause is established as a result of the predisciplinary meeting, discipline for violations shall be discharge.
Employee Assistance Programs: The Employer and the Union fully support the employee assistance programs and encourage employees to seek the confidential services of AFSCME’s PSP program. These programs play an important role by providing employees an opportunity to eliminate illegal drug use. Referral can be made to appropriate treatment and rehabilitative facilities who follow-up with individuals during their
rehabilitation period to track their progress and encourage successful completion of the program.
Executed: May 21, 1996
Revised: July 1, 2004
Day Care
It is understood by the parties that, subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, there shall be an opportunity for eligible employees to obtain at least a portion of their dependent day care costs on a favorable tax basis effective October 1, 1986.
Executed: July 1, 1986
Renewed: July 1, 2004
DAY CARE FEASIBILITY
Upon request, the Employer agrees to conduct daycare feasibility studies in those agencies at each worksite with 50 or more employees.
Effective: July 1, 1994
Renewed: July 1, 2004
DISASTER SERVICE VOLUNTEER LEAVE
Pursuant to Public Act 87-638, an employee who is a certified disaster service volunteer of the American Red Cross may be granted leave from his/her work without loss of pay for not more than 20 working days in any 12 month period. Such leave shall be for the purpose of participating in specialized disaster relief services for the American Red Cross in the State of Illinois. The leave shall be at the request of the American Red Cross and subject to approval of the employee's agency director.
Executed: November 12, 1991
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Flexible Hours
Article XII, Section 9
In interpreting the Flexible Hours provision the parties recognize as precedent Arbitrator Witney's ruling in 14-151-84 that "The employee's right to flextime must be balanced against the work requirements of the Employer. Full consideration of the establishment, adjustment or discontinuation of flextime must be given to both elements of the equation. Such determinations must be made on a case-by-case basis in the light of the evidence which bears upon the issue. Should the evidence demonstrate that flextime interferes with the work requirements of the Employer, an employee is not entitled to flexible hours despite whatever compelling reasons an employee offers to obtain the benefit. On the other hand, where the designation of a flextime position does not conflict with the work requirements or operating needs of the Employer, the employee is entitled to a flexible hours schedule." (Pursuant to P.A. 79-558)
Executed: July 1, 1986
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Generalist Series
Department of Human Services
It is agreed between the Department of Human Services and AFSCME that implementation of Article XIX, Section 8 of the present Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be as follows:
1.	When a vacancy occurs in the Generalist Series (i.e., Mental Health Specialist classifications) it shall be posted for bidding as specified in the Collective Bargaining Agreements.
2.	Selection of employees to fill such vacancies shall be in accordance with Section 5 of Article XIX. No CMS-100B form shall be required for such selection, although the employee must be qualified for the position.
3.	After selection, the employee, if not yet trained, shall fulfill the training requirements of the classification. Pay during on-the-job training shall be in accord with the Temporary Assignment Pay Article of the Contract, if they are performing the duties of the position for which they are selected.
4.	After successful completion of the training, the employee shall fill out the CMS-100B form in accordance with Section 5(A) of Article XIX. The Employer shall then send the CMS-100B to the Department of Central Management Services for grading.
5.	Upon receipt of the employee's grade on the CMS-100B, the Employer shall promote the employee to the proper classification assuming the employee is reachable on the eligible list.
Executed: December 12, 1984
Renewed: July 1, 2004
GOVERNOR'S VOLUNTEER INITIATIVE
Programs under the Governor's Volunteer Initiative will be viewed as supplemental to, not a replacement for, bargaining unit work. Specifically, programs will not be directed to displacing currently employed staff, reducing hours, reducing the level of funding for personal services that would otherwise be made available for nonvolunteer work or reduction in the customary level of services provided by employees.
Such programs may be maintained in which volunteers are doing bargaining unit work except when:
a.	a bargaining unit position normally performing such tasks is vacant within the appropriate organizational unit and there are sufficient unreserved funds in personal services available, or the Agency has legally determined that other funds are available that can be utilized to pay employee(s) in a vacant position.
b.	a bargaining unit employee qualified to perform such tasks is on layoff within the organizational unit and there are sufficient unreserved personal services funds available or the Agency has legally determined that other funds are available that can be utilized within such unit to pay employee(s).
If funds are not available and volunteers are utilized, in the following fiscal year the Agency shall make every effort to secure funds to fill the vacant position(s) and/or recall the laid off employees if it wishes to continue the utilization of said volunteers. The Agency will keep the Union informed of the efforts being made to secure funds to fill the vacant position(s) and/or recall the laid off employees.
Notice of each volunteer program under the Initiative will be made to AFSCME Council 31, identifying the work locations and summarizing the type of tasks to be performed.
Executed: April 29, 1993
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Grace Periods, Late Arrivals, Early Departure
l.	All past practices in the Department of Public Aid concerning all grace periods regarding tardiness and all past practices regarding the three times tardy per month and excused early departure leave shall cease effective December 3l, 1984.
2.	The Employer will establish policies and/or criteria relating to above matters that will be consistent with similar programs of other State agencies.
3.	The new policies will be applied in a uniform, objective, non-arbitrary and non-capricious way.
4.	The Employer agrees that violations of the new policies will solicit supervisory responses which give due consideration to mitigating circumstances, if they exist and other related factors.
5.	Employees whose attendance stayed within the parameters of the previous guidelines will start with a clean slate with regard to the above-referenced matters.
Executed: December 12, 1984
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Ground Rules For
Multi-Agencies AFSCME Step 3 Grievance Committee
1.	To orderly facilitate the disposition of grievances on each monthly Step 3 agenda, the parties agree to conduct the Step 3 committee meetings in a manner that is supportive of the Statement of Principle in Article V of the Master Collective Bargaining Agreement.
2.	The monthly meetings shall be scheduled pursuant to Article V, Section 2, Step 3. Each session shall begin at 9:00 a.m. and end at 5:00 p.m. at a mutually agreed location.
3.	The parties agree there shall be one spokesperson for the Employer and one spokesperson for the Union. However, either party may call upon a member of their respective teams on an as needed basis.
4.	The Agency shall send to Central Management Services all third level grievances received from the Union each month. Central Management Services will prepare the master agenda which shall then be sent to the Union ten (10) working days prior to the scheduled meeting. The Union shall return such draft with additions and modifications five (5) working days prior to the meeting. A grievance will not appear on the third level agenda unless a signed and dated grievance has been presented to the Agency Head or designee. The Employer reserves the right to raise the issue of timeliness pursuant to Article V.
5.	Grievance resolutions shall be signed by the parties at the meeting using an agreed upon form, unless the parties mutually agree otherwise.
6.	Travel and attendance at the meeting shall be pursuant to Article V, Section 2, Step 3. The Employer reserves the right to require sign-in sheets to verify attendance.
Executed: July 1, 2000
Revised: July 1, 2004
Illinois Self-Insured Motor Vehicle Liability Plan
It is understood by the parties that, pursuant to the Illinois Self-Insured Motor Vehicle Liability Plan, employees (insureds) are covered for motor vehicle liability insurance when acting for and on behalf of the Employer while within the course of employee’s employment. It is understood that private automobile insurance carried by a State employee is considered primary, and must be exhausted before the State’s liability plan is engaged. If other insurance is in force, coverage under the State’s plan shall be excess over the other insurance. It is understood that the Illinois Self-Insured Motor Vehicle Liability Plan makes no provision for physical damage to vehicles owned by employees (insureds).
Executed: July 1, 2000
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Internet Access to the CMS Job Posting System
The Employer will provide the Union with a link to the CMS Job Posting System on the Union’s website (www.afscme31.org).
Executed: July 1, 2004
HEPATITIS B VACCINATIONS
Department of Corrections employees who have direct contact with inmates shall, upon request, be provided with vaccinations for Hepatitis B.
Effective: July 1, 1994
Renewed: July 1, 2004
INTERMITTENT CONVERSION
DEPARTMENT OF EMPLOYMENT SECURITY ONLY Article 20, Section 5
Employees shall be permitted to convert to an Intermittent title in lieu of layoff, provided the employee has been previously certified in the classification series of the Intermittent title.
Those employees who choose to convert to intermittent status to avoid layoff shall retain recall rights to their former position classification.
(RC-62 Only)
An intermittent employee with a minimum of 13,650 hours of continuous service who is non-scheduled for two (2) consecutive pay periods shall be permanently assigned, upon request, to any other cost center in his/her region where work is available and a less senior intermittent is scheduled. Such transaction will not require posting. This option may only be exercised once in a federal fiscal year (October 1 through September 30). Such employee shall, however, be entitled to return to the cost center assignment held immediately prior to exercising this option at any time during the federal fiscal year.
Renewed: July 1, 1997
Renewed: July 1, 2004
LAYOFF PLAN
Article 19, Section 1
No layoff plan shall be established which results in the positioning of a nonbargaining unit employee for a vacant position which otherwise would subsequently have been available to a bargaining unit employee on layoff, or targeted for layoff pursuant to Article 20, Sections 3 and 4.
Executed: July 1, 1994
Renewed: July 1, 1997
Renewed: July 1, 2000
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Layoff
Temporary, Provisional, Emergency Employee
Article XX, Section 2 (e)
The parties agree that the intent of Article XX, Section 2 (e), Layoff - General Procedures, is that temporary, provisional, and emergency employees, outside the organizational unit but in the work location, in the same position classification as an employee subject to layoff, shall be terminated non-certified only if a certified or probationary employee subject to layoff elects to and is qualified to perform the duties of a temporary, provisional or emergency employee. The certified or probationary employee shall perform the duties for the remainder of the temporary, provisional or emergency appointment. Upon completion of that time frame, such employee may be considered laid off and shall have recall rights as set forth in Article XX, Section 4, Recall.
This procedure, if applicable, shall take place upon completion of the process set forth in Article XX, Section 3, Bumping and Transfer in Lieu of Layoff and shall not be applicable to employee(s) who have exercised his/her rights under Article XX, Section 3, Bumping and Transfer in Lieu of Layoff (i.e. employees who bump or select a vacancy).
Executed: July 1, 2004
NEW, MERGED, OR CHANGED CLASSIFICATION, - SALARY GRADE
If after good faith impact bargaining, the parties are unable to reach agreement on the proper pay grade for a new, merged, or changed classification, the reasonableness of the proposed salary grade shall be arbitrated pursuant to Article XXVI, Section 8.
Executed: July 1, 2000
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Non-Code Employees
Positions exempt or partially exempt from the Personnel Code due to the scientific, technical or engineering nature of the duties, as determined by statute, that are included in a classification covered by the Master Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be subject to the provisions of the Master Agreement.
It is understood that for the purpose of Filling of Vacancies and Layoff non-code employees shall have no contractual rights to code positions and code employees shall have no contractual rights to non-code positions. Therefore, the Filling of Vacancies and Layoff language shall be applied to non-code employees separate and apart from code employees within the affected agency.
However for Layoff purposes only, a non-code employee shall be offered a vacant code position for which he/she is qualified and eligible to avoid layoff in his/her employing agency pursuant to Article XX, Section 3 (j) or any other agency pursuant to Article XX, Section 3 (k). Such employee must meet the minimum qualifications for the vacancy as determined by the Department of Central Management Services.
It is understood that all references made in the Master Agreement regarding the Personnel Rules and the Pay Plan are inapplicable to exempt scientific, technical and engineering employees, and the Agreement shall be read as if the references were to the employing agency’s rules and or regulations.
Each agency may negotiate a separate Supplemental Agreement to address other issues specific to non-code employees covered by the Master Agreement.
Executed: July 1, 2004
Part-time Employees
A.	Except as set forth below there shall be separate lines of bumping for full-time and part-time employees.
Full-time employees may bump part-time employees, seniority permitting, pursuant to Article XX of the Master Contract. Part-time may not bump full-time employees to avoid layoff. Full-time employees may not bump part-time employees and part-time employees may not bump full-time employees to change shifts, or for any other purpose that bumping is permitted under the master or supplemental agreements.
It is understood that the practice of grouping employees by classification for purposes of layoff (irrespective of part-time or full-time status) shall continue.
A full-time employee recalled to a part-time position may, at the employee's option, accept or refuse such assignment and remain on the recall list for a full-time position.
A part-time employee recalled to a full-time position may, at the employee option, accept or refuse such assignment and remain on the recall list for a part-time position.
For the purpose of filling of vacancies, the parties agree that in cases when the posted vacancy is for a full-time position, the priorities listed in Article XIX Section 2 shall be applied first to any full-time bidder and then to any part-time bidder.
A part-time employee who is selected for a full-time position shall have his/her seniority pro-rated at the time he/she becomes a full-time employee based on the percentage of hours the employee was scheduled to work at the time of selection. However, a part-time employee who is selected for a full-time position and returns to a part-time position, shall have his/her seniority date revert to the date held prior to becoming a full-time employee.
A part-time employee who is laid off shall have his/her seniority pro-rated at the time of lay off based on the percentage of hours the employee was scheduled to work at the time of the lay off.
B.	Notwithstanding any other provision of the Master Agreement, part-time employees shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the employee's straight time hourly rate for all time worked in excess of the normal work day or work week for like full-time employees.
Such payment shall be cash or compensatory time in accordance with the provisions of the Master Agreement.
Executed: July 1, 1994
Revised: July 1, 2004
PAST PRACTICE
ALL UNITS
Regarding Article XXXIV, Section 3
The parties hereby agree that no change in past practice with regard to an increase or decrease in fringe benefits enjoyed by employees shall take place without the mutual agreement of the Department of Central Management Services and the Union, except as provided for in Article XXXIV, Section 3.
Executed: December 12, 1984
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Pension Credits Side Letter
An individual who represents or is employed as an officer or employee of a statewide labor organization that represents members of the State Employees Retirement System may participate in the State Employees Retirement System and shall be deemed an employee, provided that (1) the individual has previously earned creditable service under Article 14 of the Pension Code, (2) the individual files with the State Employees Retirement System an irrevocable election to become a participant, and (3) the individual does not receive credit for that employment under any other section of the Pension Code. Such employee is responsible for paying to the State Employees Retirement System both (i) employee contributions based on the actual compensation received for service with the labor organization and (ii) employer contributions based on the percentage of payroll certified by the Board; all or any part of these contributions may be paid on the employee’s behalf or picked up for tax purposes (if authorized under federal law) by the labor organization. A person who is an employee as described in this side letter may establish service credit for similar employment prior to becoming an employee as described herein by paying to the State Employees Retirement System for that employment the contributions specified in this side letter, plus interest at the effective rate from the date of service to the date of payment. However, credit shall not be granted pursuant to this side letter for any such prior employment for which the applicant received credit under any other provision of the Pension Code, or during which the applicant was on a leave of absence.
By paying the required contributions, plus an amount determined by the Board to be equal to the employer’s normal cost of the benefit plus interest, an employee who was laid off but returned to State employment under circumstances in which the employee is considered to have been in continuous service for purposes of determining seniority may establish creditable service for the period of the layoff, provided that (1) the applicant does not receive credit for that period under any other provision of the Pension Code, (2) at the time of the layoff, the applicant had attained certified status under the rules of the Department of Central Management Services, and (3) the total amount of creditable service established by the applicant under this paragraph does not exceed three (3) years. For service established as provided herein, the required employee contribution shall be based on the rate of compensation earned by the employee on the date of returning to employment after the layoff and the contribution rate then in effect, and
the required interest shall be calculated from the date of returning to employment after the layoff to the date of payment.
Executed: July l, 2004
Personal Property Loss
The Employer shall promptly pay a properly verified claim of personal property loss under Article XXV, Section 5, and in the event no line item exists to satisfy such claim, the Employer shall budget and legislatively seek an appropriation. Further, to the extent practicable, the Employer shall expedite processing and approval of all valid, current pending or future claims before the Illinois Court of Claims.
Executed: December l2, l984
Renewed: July 1, 2004
PERSONAL SERVICE CONTRACTS
1.	The Employer shall not employ, or cause to be employed through a firm or agency as a subterfuge to this agreement, individuals through the use of personal service contracts when the services performed under such contracts are within the scope of bargaining unit work. The Employer maintains the right to subcontract (which shall include subcontracts with employment services vendors) pursuant to Article XXIX of the master collective bargaining agreement.
2.	Notwithstanding the above, the Employer may contract for personal services for a position with an individual or an agency (1) for a non-renewable period not to exceed 90 days to meet the emergency situations consistent with the conditions of section 8b.8 of the Personnel Code, or (2) for a period not to exceed 6 months out of any 12 month period which is determined to be temporary or seasonal consistent with the conditions of section 8b.9 of the Personnel Code, or (3) for a period not to exceed 6 months out of any 12 month period where there is no appropriate eligible list available consistent with the conditions of section 8b.10 of the Personnel Code.
3.	The Union shall be provided with notice of all such contracts on a bi-monthly basis. Such notice shall include, at a minimum, the following information: the name of the individual; position classification he/she shall be occupying; the rate of pay; the dates of the contract; the employing department; a description of the work to be performed; and the location of the work.
4.	Any contract entered into by the Employer on or after June 30, 1993 inconsistent with this Agreement shall be terminated within 45 days.
5.	Notwithstanding paragraph 2 above, if the Employer desires to extend the time period for any contract, it shall notify the Union in writing, at least 14 calendar days before its termination of its desire and the reasons therefor. In addition to the original term, with the Union's concurrence, such contracts may be renewed for a period not to exceed 90 days to meet emergency situations consistent with section 8b.8 of the Personnel Code, for a period not to exceed 6 months out of any 12 month period which is determined to be temporary or seasonal consistent with section 8b.9 of the Personnel Code and for a period not to exceed 6 months out of any 12 month period when there is no appropriate eligible list available consistent with section 8b.10 of the Personnel Code.
6.	The Employer may not utilize consecutive contracts for the same position except as provided above.
7.	Nothing in this Memorandum prohibits the Employer from entering into personal service contracts for specialized professional or technical services which otherwise could not reasonably be provided by employees.
8.	Nothing in this memorandum of agreement prohibits the Employer from entering into personal services contracts for time limited projects for up to 12 months, renewable for an additional 12 months, to meet certain agency mandates for which specific funds are dedicated.
9.	The Union shall receive notice of any time limited projects set forth in paragraph 8 and their duration. Additionally, the Union shall be notified of any personal service contracts entered into as a result of paragraphs 7 and 8 above prior to their execution.
Executed: June 4, 1993
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Personal Service and Vendor Contracts
In order to establish an understanding between the parties with respect to continued implementation of the Personal Service Contract Memorandum of Understanding (PSC MOU) and provide a framework for the resolution of current and future issues and disputes between the parties regarding the PSC MOU in light of the decision of Arbitrator Terry Bethel on certain aspects of the PSC MOU, the parties have entered into this Side Letter. In so doing, the Union recognizes the Employer’s continued right to utilize Personal Service Contracts pursuant to and in accordance with the Personal Service Contracts Memorandum of Understanding and the Employer’s continued right to subcontract under Article XXIX of the master collective bargaining agreement. Similarly, the Employer recognizes the Union’s continued interest in preserving and protecting the scope and work of its bargaining units. In recognition of the parties’ interests set forth above, the parties agree as follows:
1.	The Employer shall, no later than December 31, 2004, prepare and present to the Union, a strategic plan and schedule for all agencies under the Governor’s Office to address the use of personal service contracts (or vendor contracts that would be prohibited if performed by employees under personal service contracts) that are, arguably, pursuant to the Bethel award, in violation of the PSC MOU and/or the master collective bargaining agreement.
2.	Where the parties agree that there is a violation to be remedied, or otherwise mutually agree in the absence of acknowledgement of a violation, that a mutually acceptable resolution is desirable, the parties shall work together achieve a remedy, resolution and/or settlement, including but not limited to phasing in remedial measures over time, establishing new positions and/or other approaches. The Employer agrees to make reasonable efforts to terminate such personal service and vendor contracts that are in violation of the PSC MOU or the master agreement as soon as feasible, but no later than December 31, 2005. Should the Employer determine that the work previously performed by said contractual employees should continue to be performed, the Employer shall either assign the work to bargaining unit employees, or if the Employer determines that the additional headcount is necessary, increase the bargaining unit headcount.
3.	Nothing herein shall prevent the Union from asserting its rights to enforce the PSC MOU and master agreement, including the right to seek appropriate remedies.
POSITION CLASSIFICATION - PROMOTIONS
1.	When an employee bids for a promotional opportunity, is selected, assigned and is performing the duties of the higher rated position classification, he/she shall be paid at the higher rate of pay, whether or not training is required.
2.	Mental Health Technicians I satisfactorily completing one (1) year as such and qualified to perform the work of the Mental Health Technician II position shall be promoted thereto and shall receive training currently required therefor at any time, but as promptly as possible after training becomes available.
3.	LPN I's satisfactorily completing one (1) year as such and qualified to perform the work of the LPN II position shall be promoted thereto, except those employees hired and working as LPN I's prior to or about August 1, 1976 shall be required to work only six (6) months to be eligible for promotion.
4.	Direct and immediate supervision and assignment of Support Workers normally shall be the duty and responsibility of Support Service Worker Supervisor position classifications, except for completing Department of Central Management Services Form 201-R, which shall be the duty of a non-bargaining unit employee.
5.	The function and responsibility of charge are duties normally exclusive to the Mental Health Technician IV position classification, where such classification is utilized.
6.	The function and responsibility of relief charge (i.e., performing charge duties on the scheduled days off of the regular charge) are duties normally exclusive to the Mental Health Technician III and IV position classifications, where such classification is utilized.
7.	Counting and distribution of medications to patients shall be the duty of those position classifications not proscribed by law or legal
interpretation from doing so.
Executed: January 4, 1977
Renewed: July 1, 2004
RC-42 Job Bidding
Employees in the Departments of Historic Preservation and Natural Resources in the RC-42 bargaining unit will be considered along with other employees who bid pursuant to Article XIX, Section 5 for the following RC-28 class series:
1.	Natural Resources Technician I
Natural Resources Technician II
2.	Site Technician I
Site Technician II
Ranger
Senior Ranger
Executed: October 9, 1991
Revised: July 1, 2004
RED-CIRCLING, PAY ON PROMOTIONS
Employees whose salaries are frozen and/or red-circled, who subsequently are placed into another position classification or pay grade, shall be placed at the pay level in their new classification as if they had moved from the original classification and pay grade directly to the most recent classification and pay grade, but in any event shall be placed at a rate no less than their original frozen and/or red-circled rate.
Executed: July 1, l989
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Selection in Place of Recall List
Where a selection has been made for a vacancy by means other than recall, and the formal written employment commitment and/or the transaction has been processed, such selection shall be implemented if a recall list is newly established for the classification within 30 calendar days following the selection, and did not exist at the time of the employment commitment.
Executed: December 12, l984
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Sick Leave
RC 6 & 9
In light of the Sick Leave Policy issued December 13, 1979, by the Director William Boys which clearly indicates sick leave is not to be used to compensate for tardiness and absenteeism, the parties agree that employees in the RC 6 and 9 bargaining units may use sick leave in one (l) hour increments in those instances when an illness occurs after the beginning of the employee's designated starting time during a portion of the work day.
In all other instances, sick leave shall be used in accordance with Article 23, Section 15, of the master collective bargaining agreement.
Executed: April 21, 1982
Renewed: July 1, 2004
SICK LEAVE BANK
1)	The definition of immediate family shall be husband, wife, children, mother, father, or any person living in the employee’s household for whom the employee has custodial responsibility or where such person is financially and emotionally dependent on the employee and where the presence of the employee is needed.
2)	The definition of catastrophic or severe illness or injury shall be as follows: Sick Leave Banks are intended to cover temporarily disabled or incapacitated employees or members of the immediate family as defined herein and who are temporarily disabled or incapacitated due to, but not limited to, cancer, heart disease or stroke. Employees who have returned to work and have been treated for an illness or injury that meets the above definition shall also be allowed access to the Sick Leave Bank. Documentation of such illness or injury shall be consistent with applicable rules and/or contractual provisions.
3)	Employees may use 25 work days from the sick leave bank per calendar year.
4)	A participating employee must be a full-time employee with a minimum of 6 months service and who has exhausted all available benefit time.
5)	Employees must have a minimum of 5 days of accumulated sick time on the books to enroll in the Sick Leave Bank and must have donated at least 1 day of sick leave to become a member, however, an employee may donate additional days as desired at the time of enrollment or any time thereafter.
6)	Employees may voluntarily enroll at any time pursuant to #4 and #5 above but must wait 30 calendar days during the initiation of this program and 60 calendar days thereafter before utilizing the sick leave bank.
7)	Each agency shall establish a single bank for all agency employees. A review committee shall be established at Central Management Services to determine employee eligibility pursuant to the guidelines established herein. For claims from employees under a collective bargaining agreement the committee shall consist of 1 agency representative, 1
union representative and 1 CMS representative. For claims from nonbargaining unit employees the committee shall consist of 1 agency representative and 2 CMS representatives. Any decision made herein shall be final and binding.
8)	The Union shall be provided a copy of the forms used for determination for all claims within ten work days of the date that the determination is made.
9)	Employee injuries and illnesses being compensated under the Workers’ Compensation Act or Workers’ Occupational Diseases Act shall not be eligible for sick leave bank use.
10)	Participating employees who transfer from one Agency to another shall thereby transfer their participation in the sick leave bank.
11)	Any employee shall not be eligible to withdraw the sick leave time he or she has contributed to the pool.
12)	Abuse of the use of the sick leave bank should be investigated by the Agency and the Department and upon a finding of wrong doing on the part of a participating employee, that employee shall repay all sick leave days drawn from the sick leave bank and shall be subject to other disciplinary action. Information regarding the alleged misuse of the sick leave bank shall be provided to the Union members of the Committee prior to the initiation of any action against the employee.
13)	Upon termination, retirement, or death, neither a participating employee nor the participating employee’s estate shall be entitled to payment for unused sick leave acquired from the sick leave bank.
14)	An agency which has less than twenty-five (25) days in its Sick Leave Bank shall post notice at all worksites and publicize the method of donating to the Sick Leave Bank by other appropriate means.
15)	Either party may request a review of this policy and any changes shall
be subject to negotiations and mutual agreement of the parties.
Executed: May 7, 1992
Revised: July 1, 2004
Skill Tests
For the term of the Agreement, the Employer agrees where skill tests beyond the CMS-100B, such as clerical skill tests, are required to qualify for promotions, certified employees may take these tests during working hours with pay within the provisions of the 1977-9 contracts, not to exceed one work day per contract year in increments of not less than one-half (1/2) day at a time, or additional time if provided in Agency practices in effect as of July 1, 1977. The employee shall provide reasonable notice, and such leave shall not unreasonably be denied.
Executed: November 10, 1980
Renewed: July 1, 2004
SMOKING POLICIES
This Agreement establishes a framework for the negotiation of Supplemental Agreements between the parties concerning smoking policies and smoke-free workplaces pursuant to Article XXV, Section 3 of the Master Agreement.
1.	The Employer and the Union encourage employees, both smokers and nonsmokers, to exercise courtesy with respect to individual smoking/non-smoking preferences in the work place.
2.	By prior agreement, the parties recognize the value to employees of smoking cessation programs and the treatment reimbursement through health insurance. The Agency shall give due consideration to providing the cost for cessation programs for employees who are participating. However, no supplemental agreement or policies shall contain provisions to compel smokers to quit. Such programs shall be by voluntary participation.
3.	The parties are committed to identifying and working to eliminate unhealthy working conditions which may exist given due consideration to the nature and requirements of the respective work locations. This commitment includes minimizing the harmful effects that smoking produces.
4.	The designation of smoking areas, if any, will be resolved at the work site level within a given Agency respecting the preference of both non-smokers and smokers, through discussions between the Employer and the Union. The following guidelines will be applied:
(a)	Private offices and offices, work areas, and other sites where space is shared, shall be non-smoking areas.
(b)	In conference rooms and classrooms, smoking is prohibited. Breaks and appropriate access to smoking areas may be scheduled to accommodate the wishes of smokers.
(c)	In cafeterias, dining areas, and employee lounges, smoking should not be permitted unless designated as a smoking area by supplemental agreement.
(d)	Recognizing the goals of these policies, it is the intent of the parties that the established restrictions also be applied to the public and/or clients.
5.	In those situations where inadequate ventilation in designated smoking areas cause smoke pollution detrimental to the health of employees, the Employer shall explore ventilation solutions and implement such where feasible and within agency budgetary limitations.
6.	Once a Smoking Policy Agreement has been established, it must be approved by CMS and AFSCME Council 31 to insure compliance with this policy and the Master Agreement. It is the intent of the parties that there be a joint, periodic review of established policies. An employee survey form, designed after it is discussed by the parties, may be used by an Agency desiring to collect employee statistics and data for the analysis of smoking issues. Such survey data shall be furnished to the Union.
Renewed: July 1, 2000
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Special Grievances
In accordance with the provisions of Article V, Section 4, the parties agree to the following procedures for the processing of grievances pertaining to matters of:
l)	Discharge, Suspensions Pending Judicial Verdict, Demotion, Geographical Transfer, Salary Grade and Layoff.
Appeals of discharges, demotions, geographical transfers, salary grade and layoffs shall be filed as a written grievance at a special Step 3 meeting with the agency head or designee within ten (10) working days of becoming aware of such action. Except for grievances involving affirmative attendance and suspensions pending judicial verdict, which shall be heard by the step 3 grievance committee, such step 3 level meetings shall be held at the work location with the agency head or designee, except that past practice with respect to those agencies which hold such meetings at a different location shall continue. However, the parties may by mutual agreement conduct such meetings at an alternate sight or in an alternate manner on a case-by-case basis. The agency head or his/her designee shall respond in writing within ten (10) working days following such meeting, or within ten (10) working days from receipt of the grievance if no meeting is held. Such grievances shall be heard on a priority basis relative to other pending Step 3 grievances.
If the Step 3 decision is rejected, the appeal to Step 4 must be within ten (10) working days of the Step 3 decision or from when such decision was due. Such appeal shall be heard at the next prearbitration staff meeting after the grievance is received by the CMS Office of Employee and Labor Relations. Discharges and suspensions pending judicial verdict shall be served upon the employees with a copy to the Union.
2)	Position Reclassifications
Within fifteen (l5) working days after receiving notice of a position reclassification, the Union may file a grievance in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement at Step 4.
The parties agree during the term of this agreement that position reclassifications shall not be subject to arbitration. Pursuant to Personnel Rule 30l.30 (c), the matter may be appealed to the Civil Service Commission within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the Employer's decision following the pre-arbitration meeting.
3)	New Classifications
Disputes regarding the salary placement of new classifications pursuant to Article XXVI, Section 8, New Classifications, may be moved to arbitration by the Union after ninety (90) days from the date the Illinois State Labor Relations Board certifies the Union as the certified bargaining representative of the classification. The parties agree to make every effort to schedule the dispute for an arbitration hearing within sixty (60) days of when it is advanced to arbitration. The parties agree that the arbitrator selected to hear the dispute will provide a written decision to the parties within two (2) weeks following conclusion of the arbitration hearing. Such decision need not contain the arbitrator’s complete rationale, but may merely uphold or deny the grievance with the accompanying remedy, if applicable. A complete decision will be furnished to the parties within thirty (30) days of the close of the record. Briefs may be filed at the request of either party.
4)	Schedule Changes
Schedule change disputes pursuant to Article XII, Section 19, Supplementary Agreements, may be moved to arbitration by either party after ninety (90) days from the first date of negotiations. The parties agree to make every effort to schedule the dispute for an arbitration hearing within sixty (60) days of when it is advanced to arbitration. The parties agree that the arbitrator selected to hear the dispute will provide a written decision to the parties within two (2) weeks following conclusion of the arbitration hearing. Such decision need not contain the arbitrator’s complete rationale, but may merely uphold or deny the grievance with the accompanying remedy, if applicable. A complete decision will be furnished to the parties within thirty (30) days of the close of the record. Briefs may be filed at the request of either party.
5)	Special Grievances Procedure
1.	The parties agree that the procedures and ground rules contained in Section 4(c) shall be utilized in the resolution of grievances covered by this Memorandum of Understanding, except that the arbitrator shall provide a written decision to the parties within two (2) weeks following conclusion of the arbitration hearing. Such decision need not contain the arbitrator's complete rationale, but may merely uphold or deny the grievance with the accompanying remedy if applicable. A complete decision will be furnished to the parties within 30 days of the close of the hearing.
2.	Arbitration hearings will be scheduled within thirty (30) days of the grievance being moved to arbitration by the Union pursuant to Step 4(b) following Step 4(a) of the grievance procedure. The parties shall make every effort to have the dispute heard at an arbitration hearing to be held within sixty (60) days following the Step 4(a) signoff.
3.	The parties agree that briefs shall not be filed unless absolutely essential and then only with mutual consent of the parties. If briefs are filed, they shall be submitted within five (5) days following the arbitration hearing. The arbitrator shall then have two (2) weeks from the date the briefs are filed to render his/her decision.
4.	If there are no pending discharge or suspension grievances, the parties agree to submit other disciplinary grievances or other mutually agreeable contract interpretation grievances to the arbitrator in order to utilize the scheduled days reserved for the parties by the panel of arbitration.
6)	Individual Employee Grievance Filing
Pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act effective July l, l984, the parties agree that an individual employee may file and settle a grievance at the appropriate initial step of the grievance procedure without the intervention of the Union.
The appropriate initial step of the grievance procedure will generally be Step 1, but in those situations wherein a grievance is appropriately initially presented at an advance step in the procedure, such as those matters contained in the Memorandum of Understanding referred to in
Article V, Section 4, and under Article V, Section 7, the advanced step will be considered the appropriate initial step of the grievance procedure.
The Union will be notified of any conference between the employee and supervisor during which the grievance will be discussed. The Union will be afforded the opportunity to be present during any such conference. However, the employee may resolve the grievance without the Union's intervention.
No settlement or resolution entered into by the employee and supervisor without the Union's intervention will be inconsistent with the existing collective bargaining agreement.
Executed: December 4, l984
Revised: July 1, 2004
Supplemental Agreements Arbitration Procedure
Pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding entitled “Supplementary Agreements” the parties agree that any arbitration shall be scheduled and heard within 20 working days subject to Article V, Section 1, Step 4b(1). The arbitrator shall then render a decision within 10 days following the close of the hearing.
Executed: September 5, 1997
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Supplementary Agreements
All supplementary agreements are hereby renewed for the duration of the Master Contract. Any agency or local supplementary agreement can be re-opened for negotiations once during the first twelve months of the Master Contract by either party to the supplement. The supplemental is considered open after serving a thirty (30) day written notice upon the other party with copies of said notification sent to Central Management Services and AFSCME Council 31. Except as provided below, all supplementary agreements shall remain in full force and effect during negotiations and until such time as a successor supplement is completed and approved by Central Management Services and AFSCME Council 31. There may be two (2) levels of supplementary negotiations, the agency and the facility. Time and place of such negotiations shall be by mutual arrangement of the parties, but both parties agree to facilitate such meetings in order to meet the time requirements in this Agreement. The number of employees on the Union committee for Facility negotiations shall be in accordance with past practice; the number for Agency negotiations shall be four (4) from each bargaining unit.
Subject to the provisions of the Agreement, topics of local and/or agency supplemental negotiations shall be as follows:
Facility negotiations besides including those items in Article XII, Section 19 and other matters stated such as bulletin boards, number of stewards, rest areas, etc., shall include:
1.	Definition of work area for special purposes, such as overtime equalization, shift preference, days off, etc. The parties will endeavor to structure the overtime distribution units in a way to allow the distribution of overtime to take place in an equitable and efficient manner.
2.	Union orientation mechanics.
3.	Four-day workweek with approval of Agency.
4.	Transaction report format.
5.	Overtime equalization.
Agency negotiations shall include:
(a)	Definition of work location for all personnel transactions as covered by the contract.
(b)	Provision of aids and appliances for employees with disabilities and reimbursement.
(c)	Seniority roster and transactions report.
(d)	Flex time.
(e)	Four-day workweek.
(f)	Special joint committees.
(g)	Educational leave with regards to numbers and policy.
(h)	Job assignment rights upon return from leave of absence.
(i)	Smoking policies.
(j)	Travel policies.
Matters contained in existing supplementary agreements may also be subject for supplementary negotiations.
Agency negotiations shall include other matters as stated in the contract, such as areas for promotional bidding.
The parties may mutually agree to add or delete subjects for supplementary negotiations as the need arises.
Any supplemental that remains unsettled ninety (90) days from the first meeting shall be subject to negotiations between AFSCME Council 31 and Central Management Services. Upon a request to negotiate, the parties shall meet within fifteen (15) days to commence negotiations. In the event that negotiations remain unsettled thirty (30) days from the first meeting between CMS and AFSCME Council 31, either party may move the dispute to arbitration.
If, after good faith negotiations, impasse is reached, the Employer may implement reasonable changes if emergency situations so dictate. The outstanding issues shall be subject to arbitration pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding on Special Grievances. In making a decision on each outstanding issue, the arbitrator shall take into consideration factors which are normally and traditionally taken into account through voluntary collective bargaining. The finding by an arbitrator that emergency conditions did not exist, does not preclude a finding for the Employer’s position on the outstanding issues in arbitration.
Once a settlement has been reached, either by mutual agreement or via arbitration, two completed copies must be signed by both parties and must be submitted to the Department of Central Management Services and to AFSCME Council 31 within thirty (30) days of agreement.
No Supplementary agreements shall become effective any earlier than the effective date of the contract and until such agreements have been approved by the Department of Central Management Services and AFSCME Council 31.
Executed: July 1, 1986
Revised: July 1, 2004
TAX EXEMPT BENEFITS
The purpose of this Memorandum of Understanding is to provide eligible employees a means of obtaining benefits coverage on a favorable tax basis.
Effective October 15, 1985 the Employer will establish a plan for eligible employees that will qualify as tax exempt certain of their premiums for employee and dependent health, life, and dental (if available) insurance.
Statutory Authority: P.A. 84-167, effective August 16, 1985 and Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 125)
Renewed: July 1, 1986
Renewed: July 1, 2004
TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT TO THE GENERALIST SERIES RC-9, RC-62 AND RC-63
An employee, who is temporarily assigned to and subsequently selected for a position within the Generalist Series and who does not possess the training certificate to meet the qualification requirements for the higher position is to be given training, where training in that classification is provided pursuant to facility practice, and pay under the temporary pay provisions of Article XIV, providing the affected employee continues to perform the duties and responsibilities of the higher position while undergoing formal training to obtain the certificate. If, after obtaining the certificate, the employee is still unable to qualify for the higher position, due to lack of experience, the employee is to be assigned duties appropriate for the position classification to which currently assigned and paid accordingly.
Executed: December l2, l984
Renewed: July 1, 2004
TRAINEE TITLES
The Employer recognizes AFSCME Council 31 as the exclusive bargaining representative for the employees in the attached list of classifications and who are targeted for or to be promoted to bargaining unit positions. Employees in these titles shall be subject to the provisions of the master collective bargaining agreement except as amended in this supplemental.
During this period these employees shall have no right to:
1.	Utilize the grievance procedure in the event of discipline, discharge or demotion, except those employees who held certified status during their most recent period of continuous service.
2.	Be appointed as a union steward or representative.
3.	Liquidate accumulated vacation or request leaves of absence as outlined in Article XXIII with exception of Section 15, Sick Leave, except that Trainees may utilize vacation pursuant to Article X, Section 1, upon the completion of 6 months service.
4.	Exercise the bidding and bumping provisions outlined in Article XIX, with the understanding that Article XIX, Section 2, D, is in full force and effect for the filling of vacancies upon the completion of the Trainee period.
5.	Vacant Trainee positions (attached) will not be posted or subject to the bidding procedures outlined in Article XIX. The Employer agrees to post an informational notice to employees concerning the filling of future Trainee vacancies.
6.	Exercise the rights enumerated in Article XX of the collective bargaining agreement in case of layoff, except trainee employees shall have rights as set forth in Article XX, Section 4, however, such rights shall be limited to the employing agency at the time he/she was terminated non-certified. Such reappointment list shall be maintained by the agency. Upon reappointment, such trainee may be subject to additional training which shall not exceed the maximum program length set forth in this Memorandum of Understanding.
7.	Based on the understanding that Trainees will not be misassigned, utilize the grievance procedure for claims of temporary assignment pay as outlined in Article XIV of the collective bargaining agreement.
The parties agree that employees hired in the attached list of classifications shall remain in such status for a period not to exceed the designated maximum program listed. Upon satisfactory completion of the designated training period or less, the employees will be promoted and serve a four (4) month probationary period in the targeted bargaining unit position.
- 2 -
Under any provision of the contract, employees shall not transfer to another position and/or work location unless such transfer is compatible with the training program. Trainees will be subject to working work schedules as the trainee program and past practice require.
The Employer may change the shifts and days off of the Telecommunicator Trainee and Clerical Trainee with 24 hours of notice in order to fulfill training needs.
The current practice regarding the Life Sciences Career Trainee special skills options will not be modified or affected by this Memorandum of Understanding.
Executed: March 6, 2002
Revised: July 1, 2004
( *) See Title Specific Memorandum of Understanding
Number	Class Title	Max. Prog. Length Barg. Unit
1	Accounting and Fiscal Administration Career Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
2	Actuarial Examiner Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
3	Administrative Services Worker Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-014
4	Behavioral Analyst Associate	12 Mos.	RC-062
5	Carnival and Amusement Safety Inspector Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
6	Children and Family Service Intern, Option 1	24 Mos.	RC-062
7	Children and Family Service Intern, Option 2	24 Mos.	RC-062
8	Clerical Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-014
9	Clinical Laboratory Technologist Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
10	Computer Information Consultant Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
11	Computer Systems Software Specialist Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
12	Correctional Officer Trainee ( *)	12 Weeks	RC-006
13	Data Processing Operator Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-014
14	Data Processing Technician Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-028
15	Energy and Natural Resources Specialist Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
16	Financial Institutions Examiner Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
17	Forensic Scientist Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
18	Geographic Information Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-063
19	Graduate Pharmacist	12 Mos.	RC-063
20	Health and Safety Officer Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
21	Hearing and Speech Associate	24 Mos.	RC-063
22	Human Services Grants Coordinator Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
23	Industrial Services Consultant Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
24	Industrial Services Hygienist Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
25	Information Services Intern	24 Mos.	RC-063
26	Insurance Analyst Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-014
27	Insurance Company Financial Examiner Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
28	Life Sciences Career Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
29	Manpower Planner Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
30	Mental Health Specialist Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
31	Mental Health Technician Trainee 1	12 Mos.	RC-009
32	Methods and Procedures Career Associate Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
33	Network Control Center Technician Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
34	Psychologist Associate	12 Mos.	RC-063
35	Public Aid Investigator Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
36	Public Health Program Specialist Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
37	Rehabilitation Counselor Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
38	Rehabilitation/Mobility Instructor Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-063
39	Residential Care Worker Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-009
40	Revenue Auditor Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
41	Revenue Collection Officer Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
42	Revenue Special Agent Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
43	Revenue Tax Specialist Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
44	Security Therapy Aide Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-009
45	Social Service Aide Trainee	36 Mos.	RC-006
46	Social Services Career Trainee - Option 1	12 Mos.	RC-062
47	Social Services Career Trainee ( * Option 2)	48 Mos.	RC-062
48	Telecommunicator Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-014
49	Weatherization Specialist Trainee	12 Mos.	RC-062
50	Youth Supervisor Trainee ( *)	12 Weeks	RC-006
TRANSFER POLICY FOR RC-6 EMPLOYEES
An RC-6 employee who has at least eighteen (18) months seniority and desires to transfer to the same or lower position classification in the same classification series, an equal or lower position in a classification in which an employee was previously certified, or a position lower in the series in which an employee was previously certified, and for which he/she is qualified at a different work location (including employees desiring to transfer from the Correctional Officer series to the Youth Supervisor series, and vice versa) shall file a request for transfer form with the Agency Personnel Office. The Agency Personnel Office shall send copies of the transfer request form to the personnel liaison(s) responsible for handling personnel transactions for both the employee's current institution and the institution the employee indicates he/she wishes to transfer to. Such request for transfer will be effective twenty-four (24) months from the date received in the Agency Personnel Office.
The following parameters are agreed to between AFSCME Council #31, the Department of Corrections, and the Department of Central Management Services:
1.	During each contract year, no more than 5% of the RC-6 employees in an institution may exercise this right.
2.	When an employee transfers from an institution, no other employee in the same position classification will be allowed to transfer from that institution, unless operational needs permit, until the transferred employee's position is filled.
However, an employee's effective date of transfer shall be the date he/she otherwise would have been transferred and the position for which the employee was selected shall be held vacant until the employee is able to physically transfer.
3.	An institution will not be required to fill more than 33 1/3% of the approved vacancies per contract year via employees transferring from one work location to another pursuant to this Agreement.
When vacancies are approved to be filled and a transfer agreement is on file, the first and second vacancies shall be
filled by the institution's normal process consistent with Article XIX, Section 2. Prior to filling an approved vacancy through other means available, the third vacancy shall be filled by an eligible transferee consistent with Article XIX, Section 2. Such remaining vacancies shall be filled on a similar alternating basis until all remaining transfer requests of eligible employees have been honored. If vacancies remain, they shall be filled through the normal filling of vacancy process.
The placing of a Trainee who has satisfactorily completed the training requirements for a targeted position pursuant to Article XIX, Section 2-D does not increase an institution's headcount and will not count as either the filling of vacancy category or the transfer category.
4.	An employee who has been suspended for more than thirty (30) days within the twenty-four (24) months immediately preceding the effective date of transfer shall not be permitted to transfer. An employee who has been suspended for more than five (5) days within the twelve months immediately preceding the effective date of transfer shall not be permitted to transfer. An employee who has been suspended for five (5) days or less within the twelve months immediately preceding the effective date of transfer shall not be permitted to transfer unless six (6) months or more have elapsed between the date the last suspension was imposed and the effective date of transfer.
5.	An employee who is on "furnish-proof" status shall not be eligible for transfer under this Agreement.
6.	All transferred employees will be provided the regular orientation and/or regular refresher course in the new institutions.
7.	An employee who exercises his/her right to transfer will not be eligible to transfer again for twenty-four (24) months from the effective date of the transfer, except that employees transferring between work locations within the same work county shall not be permitted to transfer for a period of thirty (30) months from the effective date of transfer.
8.	Except during the initial staffing of a new institution, an employee transferring under the provisions of this Agreement,
or transferring by other means, shall not be able to exercise his/her seniority for promotional purposes, a days off schedule and/or shift preference for a period of twelve (12) months from the effective date of the transfer.
9.	The name of an employee who declines an offer to transfer under the terms of the Agreement shall be removed from the transfer request list. Such employees may resubmit a transfer request after six (6) months have elapsed from the date the transfer offer was declined.
10.	The initial staffing of a new institution shall be done in accordance with the procedures outlined in #3 above except that 25% of the approved vacancies are required to be filled in this manner.
This Agreement shall be effective July 1, 2004 and shall remain in effect until June 30, 2008, unless either party gives notice of its desires to reopen negotiations on this Agreement 30 days prior to July 1, 2008. This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect during the period of such negotiations.
Renewed: July 1, 1997
Revised: July 1, 2004
TRANSFER POLICY FOR RC-9 EMPLOYEES
RC-9 employees, except employees desiring transfer who have not completed their original six (6) month probationary period, desiring to transfer to the same or lower position classification in the employee’s classification series in a different facility shall file a request for transfer form which shall be effective for one year with the Personnel Officer at the facility to which the employee desires to transfer.
The following parameters are agreed to by AFSCME Council 31 and the Department of Human Services:
1.	During each contract year, no more than 5% of RC-9 employees in a facility may exercise this right.
2.	A facility will be required to fill no more than 50% of the vacancies per position classification in this manner pursuant to Article 19, Section 2, Filling of Vacancies.
When vacancies are to be filled and a transfer request is on file, the first vacancy is filled by the facility’s normal process. The second vacancy is filled by an eligible transferee. Such remaining vacancies shall be filled on an alternating basis until all remaining transfer requests of eligible employees have been honored. If vacancies remain, they shall be filled through the normal filling of vacancy process.
3.	Any employee who has been suspended within the preceding six (6) months of the transfer opportunity shall not be eligible for transfer under this agreement.
4.	All transferred employees must successfully complete the regular orientation and/or regular refresher training program in the new facility if such training or orientation is made available to the employee. Any employee who fails to successfully complete such orientation and/or training within three months of transfer must return to his/her original facility in the employee’s current classification. Such return shall be considered by the parties as a voluntary action. Employees thus impacted shall not be eligible for other transfer opportunities for 18 months from the date of the first transfer.
5.	An employee who exercises his/her right to transfer will not be eligible to transfer again for 18 months from the effective date of the transfer.
6.	Employees transferring under the provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding shall not be able to exercise their seniority for promotional purposes for a period of one year.
7.	Transfer under the language shall apply to Article 19, Section 2A(d), Filling of Vacancies.
8.	The name of an employee who declines an offer to transfer under the terms of the agreement shall be removed from the transfer request list.
Renewed: July 1, 2000
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Vacancy Listing
The parties agree that in addition to the job openings required to be maintained on a central list pursuant to Article XV, Section 7, the Employer will maintain on that same central list all job openings in all job classifications which are covered by the Master agreement, as listed in Appendix A.
Executed: July 27, l989
Renewed: July 1, 2004
Welfare and Welfare to Work Program - ALL UNITS
This agreement is made and entered into by and between the Illinois Department of Central Management Services, and all Departments, Boards and Commissions subject to the Illinois Personnel Code, ("Employer") and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees - AFL-CIO ("Union"), on behalf of its affiliated locals and the employees in the collective bargaining units.
1.	Welfare recipients and Welfare To Work participants will not displace or replace regular employees. For example, if there are ten Office Aides and five Welfare recipients and Welfare To Work participants, and two Office Aides retire, the Employer will not replace the two regular vacant positions with two additional Welfare recipients and Welfare To Work participants raising their number to seven. This policy, however, does not require the Employer to fill vacancies which they desire to keep vacant.
2.	Bargaining unit work that constitutes the normal duties and responsibilities of regular employees on current payroll and will not be removed and reassigned to Welfare recipients and Welfare to Work participants. Welfare and Welfare to Work participants will be assigned work in a manner that will not jeopardize the job classification of the current employees.
3.	Welfare and Welfare to Work assignments will in no way interfere with the contractual procedures for filling vacancies. The contractual procedures will be used for filling bargaining unit vacancies.
4.	The Union will be notified when a State agency determines to use Welfare recipients and Welfare to Work participants.
The Union agrees not to appeal or grieve the Employer's initiation or continuation of programs consistent with this agreement and relevant laws.
Executed: December 12, 1984
Renewed: July 1, 2004