Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Saratoga County and Saratoga County General Unit, Civil Service Employees Association, Inc. (CSEA), American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO (2000)
K#: 820351
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
f 9^3 Si
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN COUNTY OF SARATOGA
AND
THE CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION/ INC.
JANUARY 1/ 2000 THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2004
INDEX
PAGE
PREAMBLE	............................................... i
ARTICLE I	Recognition ...................................   1
ARTICLE II	Collective Bargaining Unit ...................... 1
ARTICLE III	Compensation ..................................   2
ARTICLE IV	Longevity ....................................... 3
ARTICLE V	Work Day and Work Week........................... 3
ARTICLE VI	Overtime, Compensatory Payment	and Other
Benefits ...................................     6
ARTICLE Vli	Retirement and Health Insurance ................. 9
ARTICLE VIII	Holidays .....................................   12
ARTICLE IX	Vacation ....................................... 13
ARTICLE X	Leave Policies ................................. 13
ARTICLE XI	Working Conditions ...........................   18
ARTICLE XII	Layoff of Non-Competitive and	Labor Class
Employees ...................................... 19
ARTICLE XIII	Layoff of Competitive	Class Employees .......... 22
ARTICLE XIV	Separability ................................... 22
ARTICLE XV	Reciprocal Rights .............................. 22
ARTICLE XVI	Past Practice .................................. 23
ARTICLE XVII	Uniforms ....................................... 24
ARTICLE XVIII	Grievances ..................................... 25
ARTICLE XIX	Discipline and Discharge ....................... 29
ARTICLE XX	Miscellaneous .................................. 30
ARTICLE XXI	Transfers ...................................... 31
ARTICLE XXII	Employee Evaluations	................   32
ARTICLE XXIII	Due Process Hearings..........................   32
ARTICLE XXIV	Mandatory Legislative	Clause .............  33
ARTICLE XXV	Zipper Clause .................................. 33
ARTICLE XXVI	Term of Contract ..............................  33
PREAMBLE
It shall be the policy of the County of Saratoga and the Saratoga County General Unit of the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc. and the purpose of this Agreement to promote harmonious and cooperative relations between the County of Saratoga and its employees, and to protect the public by assuring, at all times, the orderly and uninterrupted operations and functions of government. This Agreement is made between the County of Saratoga, hereinafter referred to as the '’Employer,,, and the Saratoga County General Unit of the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., hereinafter referred to as ,'CSEA".
ARTICLE I
Recognition
Section 1.	The Employer agrees that the CSEA shall be the sole and exclusive representative of all employees described in Article II for the purpose of collective bargaining and grievances.
Section 2.	Pursuant to Section 208 of the Civil Service Law, CSEA shall have unchallenged representation status for the maximum period permitted by law on the date of the execution of this Agreement.
Section 3.	CSEA shall have exclusive payroll deduction of authorized deductions for employees.
Section 4.	The Employer shall deduct from the wages of employees and remit to the CSEA or its designated agent regular membership dues and other authorized deductions for those employees who signed authorization permitting such payroll deductions and agency fees, equivalent to the dues levied by CSEA for those employees in the bargaining unit who are not members. In addition, the employer shall deduct on a bi-weekly basis an amount of money designated by the employee in writing from the paycheck of such employee who wishes a deduction^) for United States Savings Bonds, and/or a Credit Union.
The Association agrees to indemnify the County and hold it harmless against any and all suits, claims, demands and liabilities that may arise out of, or by reason of, any action that may be taken by the County for the purpose of complying with the provisions of such deductions as are herein set forth, or in reliance upon any authorization card or list relating thereto which is furnished to the County by the Association.
Section 5.	The Saratoga County General Unit, CSEA, Inc., affirms that it does not assert the right to strike against the Employer, to assist or participate in any such strike, or to impose an obligation under its members to conduct, assist or participate in such a strike.
Section 6.	The County shall furnish to CSEA a list of all employees in the bargaining unit, including name, work address, job title, department, date of hire and gross salary, when requested for contract negotiations. Such lists required at any other time will require payment of a $35.00 fee by CSEA.
ARTICLE II
Collective Bargaining Unit
The County of Saratoga hereby recognizes the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees, exclusive of part time, temporary, seasonal employees, elected and appointed officials, all Department Heads and those designated by agreement between the parties as set forth in Appendix D attached hereto and made a part hereof. All County employees shall be permitted such membership in CSEA to obtain the benefits of the insurance program of CSEA even though such member is excluded from the bargaining unit under this Article.
-1-
ARTICLE III
Compensation
Section 1A. The 1999 Compensation Plan for Saratoga County, as amended herein, shall become the 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 Compensation Plan and shall be in effect during the period of January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2004 for all employees who are included in the bargaining unit covered by this agreement. Salary schedules for each year of the agreement shall be attached as Appendix A and be included in and made part of the agreement. The County may alter such schedules by deleting and/or adding a salary line if it is determined during the yearly budgetary process that a position is to be removed and/or added from said schedule. Only in instances where the bargaining unit is affected, will the County consult with the Union prior to the deletion and/or addition of a salary line.
Section IB. All employees under the Compensation Plan who, under the terms and conditions thereof, are entitled to receive an increment, shall receive their due increment for the duration of this Agreement.
Section 2. Effective 1/1/00 thru 12/31/04, employees eligible for an increment will receive such consistent with the appropriate compensation plan. Employees hired after July 2, 1977 are covered under Section 4 and Article IV, Section 3. All DPW Highway, hourly employees are covered under Article IV, Section 2 and Article XI, Section 4.
Section 3A. Salaries on the compensation plan for Saratoga County shall be increased as follows: effective January 1, 2000 a salary increase of 3.25% of actual salary shall be added to all positions on the salary schedule.
Section 3B. Effective January 1, 2001, a salary increase of 3.25% of actual salary shall be added to all positions on the salary schedule.
Section 3C. Effective, January 1, 2002, a salary increase of 3.5% of actual salary shall be added to all positions on the salary schedule.
Section 3D. Effective January 1, 2003, a salary increase of 3.5% of actual salary shall be added to all positions on the salary schedule.
Section 3E. Effective January 1, 2004, a salary increase of 3.5% of the actual salary shall be added to all positions on the salary schedule.
Section 3F. Any retroactive payments due under this agreement will only be made to employees who are on the payroll as of the date of ratification/approval of this agreement.
Section 3G. Effective the first fullpay period after the final approval of this agreement by both the Association and the County, the salary adjustments set forth on Appendix "A" shall be implemented.
-2-
Section 4. All employees hired after July 2, 1977 shall receive increments of $300 plus at the completion of each of the first five years of full-time employment. Such increments will be paid on the pay day for the first full pay period following the anniversary date.
The anniversary date is based on the employee’s first date of permanent, temporary or provisional employment on a continuous basis for Saratoga County, provided there is no break in service of the employment of any such employees.
All employees hired prior to July 2, 1977 shall continue to receive their increments in accordance with Section IB of this Article and Article IV of this contractual agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Longevity
Section 1■ Longevity increments, as provided in the Compensation Plan shall continue when due the employee, for the duration of this Agreement. Longevity steps are established at the completion of seven (7) years nine (9) years, eleven (11) years, eighteen (18) years and twenty-four (24) years.
Section 2. In addition to the salary increase set forth by this Agreement, all hourly DPW/Highway employees who have completed seven (7) years of service shall receive a seven (7) year increment of $.10 added to their hourly rate; after 10 years of service shall receive a 10-year increment of $.10 to be added to their hourly rate and also an additional longevity increment of $.10 after completion of 15 years of service; an additional longevity step of $.10 to be added to their hourly rate at completion on 18 years of service. Effective January 1, 2000 this increment shall be maintained as an integral part of the salary structure and paid on the anniversary date of the employee.
Section 3. All new employees permanently hired after July 2, 1977 shall receive longevity increments at the completion of seven (7) years of service, ten (10) years of service, fifteen(15) years of service and eighteen (18) years of service effective January 1, 2000. Such longevity increments will be payable on the first day of the first full pay period following the date of completion of the longevity service requirement. All employees permanently hired prior to the above date shall continue to receive longevity increments in accordance with Section 1 or Section 2 of this article.
ARTICLE V
Work Day and Work Week
Section 1.	All full time employes other than those employed by the County Infirmary and Health Related Facility, the County Sewer District or the Department of Public Works, are employed on a five (5) day per week, seven (7) hour per day work week, excluding a one-hour lunch period (35-hour work week). The hours of work shall be from 9:00a.m. to 5:00p.m.
-3-
Section 2.	All full-time employees of the DPW/Highway Department are employed as follows:
(A)	DPW/Highway Clerical - 35-hour work week; 9:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. inclusive of a one (1) hour lunch period.
(B)	DPW/Highway Engineering - 35-hour work week; 9:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. inclusive of one (1) hour lunch period.
(C)	DPW/Highway Hourly - 40-hour work week exclusive of a one-half (1/2) hour lunch period.
(D)	DPW/Maintenance - 40-hour work week; 7:30a.m. to 4:00p.m. inclusive of a one-half (1/2) hour lunch period.
(E)	DPW/Cleaning Salaried Employees - 40-hour work week; 3:00p.m. to 11:30p.m. inclusive of one-half (1/2) hour lunch period.
Section 3.	In the Health Related Facilities and Infirmary, all full time employees shall work a thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) hour week, exclusive of one-half hour lunch period, for each of the three shifts established.
The normal work period for health related facility and infirmary employees shall be ten (10) days for each 14-day period, which shall be defined as the fourteen (14) consecutive day period beginning seven (7) a.m. Friday. The remaining four days off shall be given in two units of two days each, but such two-day units may be split to one-day units, with the consent of the individual employee involved.
Section 4.	Maintenance and grounds personnel assigned to Ballston Infirmary and the Health Related Facility shall work a 40 hour work week; 7:30a.m. to 4:00p.m. inclusive of a one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch period.
Section 5.	Sewer District
A.	Operations personnel will work on a rotating shift on the following basis:
DAY	HOUR	SHIFT
1	12	11:30AM - 12 Midnight
2	12	11:30AM - 12 Midnight
3	8	3:30PM - 12 Midnight
4	8	3:30PM - 12 Midnight
5	8	3:30PM - 12 Midnight
6	8	3:30PM - 12 Midnight
7	8	3:30PM - 12 Midnight
-4-
8	OFF		
9	OFF		
10	8	7!30AM -	4:00PM
11	8	7:30AM -	4:00PM
12	8	7:30AM -	4:00PM
13	8	7:30AM -	4:00PM
14	8	7:30AM -	4:00PM
15	OFF		
16	OFF		
17	8	11:30PM -	8:00AM
18	8	11:30PM -	8:00AM
19	8	11:30PM -	8:00AM
20	8	11:30PM -	8:00AM
21	8	11:30PM -	8:00AM
22	12	11:30PM -	12 Noon
23	12	11:30PM -	12 Noon
24	OFF		
25	OFF		
26	OFF		
27	OFF		
28	OFF		
B.	Laboratory Technical personnel are employed on a five (5) day per week, seven and one-half (7 1/2) hour per day work week excluding a one-half hour lunch period (37 1/2 hour work week.)
C.	Maintenance personnel are employed on a five (5) day per week, eight (8) hour per day work week, excluding a one-half hour lunch period. (40-hour work week).
D.	All other employees of the Sewer District are employed on a five (5) day per week, seven (7) hour per day work week exclusive of a one hour lunch period (35-hour work week).
Section 6.	Normally, employees shall have two consecutive 24-hour days, a total of 48 consecutive hours off each week.
Section 7.	Where, however, the hours of employment for any County employee are different from the hours hereinabove set forth, those hours, as previously established, shall continue.
-5-
ARTICLE VI
Overtime, Compensatory payment and Other Benefits
Section 1.	DPW/Highway employees work a 40-hour work week, exclusive of Clerical and Engineering personnel.
For those employees listed above and for all employees whose normal work week is 40 hours, all hours worked beyond 40 hours per week shall be compensated at a rate of time and one-half the affected employees hourly rate or at compensatory time off as stated in Section 7.
To determine the employee's overtime rate, the current salary of the highway employee shall be divided by the number of hours consistent with the annual pay periods set by the County Treasurer's Office.
Employees of the Health Related Facility and County Infirmary work a normal work week as indicated in Article V (3). All hours worked in excess of 80 in said work period will be compensated at a rate of time and one-half of the affected employees hourly rate or with compensatory time off as described in Section 7. To determine the employee's overtime rate, the current salary of the employee shall be divided by the number of hours consistent with the annual pay periods set by the County Treasurer’s Office.
Section 2.	In all other Departments, compensation for hours worked in excess of 35 per week shall be received. This compensation shall be in the form of:
a.	Equal time off for hours worked between 35 and 40 hours; or
b.	The employee will be paid straight time at his current
hourly rate.
c.	See Section 7 for details.
The Department Head shall decide the form of compensation to be granted, and such compensation will be given within 60 days of the date on which the excess hours were worked.
To determine the hourly rate for salaried employees covered in this section, the current salary that employee is receiving shall be divided by the number of hours consistent with the annual pay periods set by the County Treasurer's Office.
In no event will overtime, as hereinabove set forth, be paid to any County employee not covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act or exempted from the Fair Labor Standards Act as Executive, Administrative, or Professional. All current titles eligible for overtime as of December 31, 1994, shall continue to be eligible for overtime.
Section 3.	Shift Differential Relative to Health Related Facility and Infirmary employees and Cleaners assigned to DPW:
Those employees working an afternoon shift (3:00p.m. to 11:00p.m.) will be paid an additional 3 1/2% of their actual rate. Those employees working the night shift (11:00p.m. to 7:00a.m.) will receive an additional 7% of their actual rate.
-6-
Section 4.	Hourly employees in the DPW/Highway Department will be paid overtime based on the actual hours shown on their time cards in tenths of an hour.
Section 5.	Employees of the Department of Public Works (except Engineering, Clerical, Cleaning personnel) and Animal Shelter will be paid a minimum "show-up pay" of three hours straight time pay for the first two hours, or any fraction thereof, worked. Anything in excess of the first two hours will be paid at the rate of time and one half for each hour or fraction of an hour thereof. This paragraph is intended to cover and does cover only those situations where an employee is called out outside of regular work hours on an emergency and his employment as the result of said emergency is terminated outside of his regular work hours.
Section 5 B. All Child Welfare employees and employees of Public Health who are on-call Monday through Friday shall receive twenty ($20.00) dollars per night in addition to any wages earned when such employees are required to work. The on-call fee shall be paid for each twenty-four (24) hour period or part thereof between Monday and Friday. Additionally, such employees who are on-call during a weekend (Saturday and Sunday) shall receive sixty dollars ($60.00).
Such employees who are on-call on a holiday shall receive twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each holiday the employee is on-call. For the following listed three holidays: Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year’s the on-call rate will be ($60.00) sixty dollars.
Fees paid for weekend(s) or holiday(s) shall be in addition to any wages earned when the employee(s) is required to work on a weekend or holiday. Wages paid shall be at the applicable straight or overtime rate.
Section 6.	When computing overtime, any leave time taken and deducted from an employee's accumulated credit, shall be considered as a day worked.
Section 7.	All persons eligible for overtime under this agreement shall be allowed to take compensatory time off if they so desire at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) for the hours worked beyond forty hours or paid at the rate of time and one-half ( 1 1/2) for all such hours. Compensatory time shall only be taken with the approval of the Department Head.
Section 8.	In Infirmary and Health Related Facility:
When an employee is called in to work on his/her normal day off, he or she shall be compensated therefore on the basis of time and one-half of his or her hourly rate of pay.
A.	Distribution of Overtime at the Infirmary
1.	Available overtime for non-supervisory work shall be distributed on the basis of overtime rosters by title or by groups of titles by work location equitably among qualified employees who normally do such work under the supervisor responsible for assigning the overtime involved. Original placement on overtime rosters shall be based on seniority.
-7-
2.	Overtime shall first be offered to employees in seniority order from the overtime roster. Refusal of voluntary overtime shall be treated as overtime worked for the purpose of placement on the voluntary overtime roster. If no employee elects to accept the overtime assignment, it shall be assigned on a mandatory basis to employees in reverse order of seniority. Any employee who is passed over on the mandatory overtime roster as a result of his or her not being on duty when mandatory overtime is distributed, shall retain his or her position on the mandatory overtime roster.
3.	Nothing contained herein shall limit the development of departmental labor/management procedures regarding the distribution of overtime.
4.	Departmental procedures should provide notice to employees of the possibility of a mandatory overtime assignment. When it is known, notice of such overtime shall be given to employees at the beginning of their regular shift.
B.	Distribution of Overtime at the Sewer Department.
The assignment of voluntary overtime shall be first offered to employees in a rotating seniority order from the overtime roster, subject to the employee being qualified to perform such work.
Section 9.	The Employer agrees to furnish one meal allowance of $7.00 for Highway and Sewer District employees for twelve (12) consecutive hours worked and two meal allowances of $7.00 each for sixteen (16) consecutive hours worked in any one day. For purposes of this section, Sewer District employees working the regular twelve (12) hour shift (Article V, Section 5) shall receive such allowances after sixteen (16) or twenty (20) consecutive hours worked.
For purposes of this section, one (1) day shall be defined as a twenty-four (24) hour period beginning when the employee starts work and ending twenty-four hours later.
Section 10.	The Employer agrees to continue the lunch allowance of $7.00 for those salaried employees who heretofore have been paid for such noon meals. However, employees who are not now receiving payments for noon meals and all employees hired after July 1, 1981, will not be reimbursed for such noon meals.
Section 11.	A Registered Nurse or LPN designated to be in charge of a unit shall receive an additional compensation of $6.00 for each shift worked.
Section 12	A. Effective 1/1/92, all full-time employees who are regularly scheduled to work weekends on a routine basis will receive an additional five (5%) percent of their actual rate for all weekend days worked, exclusive of on-call status as per Article VI, Section 5B.
Section 12 B. For the purpose of determining which employees are eligible for weekend differential pay:
In the Infirmary, for the 11:00p.m. to 7:00a.m. shift ONLY, the weekend will start at 11:00p.m. Friday night, and will end at 7:00a.m. Sunday morning.
-8-
In the Sewer District, for the 11:30p.m. to 12 noon shift ONLY, the weekend will start at 11:30p.m. Friday night and will end at 12 midnight on Sunday.
ARTICLE VII
Retirement and Health Insurance
Section 1 (a). The Employer agrees to continue to provide the Improved Non-Contributory State Career Retirement Plan 75(i), known as the Non-Contributory ”25 Year Career" Plan for all employees hired on or before June 30, 1976 (as other than a CETA employee) and all employees hired under the CETA program prior to September 1, 1975. The Employer further agrees to continue, for all employees the option of applying unused sick leave an additional service credit upon retirement and the prerogative of purchasing service credit for World War II military service.
(b)	All employees hired on or after July 1, 1976 (as other than a CETA employee) will be enrolled as members of the contributory New York State Employee's Retirement System's Coordinated Escalator Plan (Tier 3). This section shall be amended to the extent necessary to reflect changes in the Retirement and Social Security Law of the State of New York, as it applies to "Tier 3" employees.
(c)	All permanent full-time employees hired on or after September 1, 1983 will be enrolled in the contributory New York State Employees’ Retirement System as Tier 4 members.
Section 2.	Health Insurance
All permanent employees shall be eligible for membership in Saratoga County Health Insurance Plan or such Health Plan as may be selected by the County pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
The Saratoga County Health Plan shall continue to provide the Blue Shield hospital, surgical and medical coverage formerly known as "Par Plus". In addition to such benefits which were heretofore provided, the Health Insurance Plan will incorporate the following provisions:
(a)	Second Opinion Surgery (Mandatory) which provides a 50% reimbursement (after major medical deductible) if no second opinion is received. Normal plan provisions if second opinion is received.
(b)	Ambulatory Surgery at 100% as an out-patient, 50% as inpatient with no hospital coverage.
(c)	Precertification of all elective admissions (non-emergency and non-maternity). No payments made for hospitalization in excess of precertification determination without approval of Blue Shield Panel of Doctors.
(d)	Effective 1/1/95 the major medical deductible will be $175 per person; and effective 1/1/98, the major medical deductible will be $200 per person.
-9-
(e)	Effective 1/1/95, the in-patient/out-patient annual hospital deductible will be $175 per person; and effective 1/1/98, the in-patient/out-patient annual hospital deductible will be $200 per person.
For employees hired by the County before January 1, 2001 the Employer shall pay the total cost of the Saratoga County Health Insurance Plan or other health insurance plan selected by the employer for individual and dependent coverage as selected by the employee. For employees hired by the County on or after January 1, 2001, the Employer shall pay 85% of the cost of the Saratoga County Health Insurance Plan or other health insurance plan selected by the Employer for individual and dependent coverage as selected by the employee and the employee shall be responsible for the remaining 15% of such cost. Effective January 1, 2001, the County shall offer to employees an alternative health insurance plan which will be known as the Point of Service Plan, For those employees hired by the County before January 1, 2001, the Employer shall pay the total cost of the Point of Service Plan, For those employees hired by the County on or after January 1, 2001, the Employer will pay 85% of such costs and the employee shall pay the remaining 15% of the costs of individual or dependent coverage for such plan.
In the event of a change of the health insurance carrier, such change shall be made by the employer only after not less than sixty (60) days written notice to and consultation with CSEA. The terms “Carrier” or "Private Carrier” shall include the County of Saratoga under any self-insurance plan. The benefits provided by the new carrier shall be substantially equal to or better than the benefits provided by the coverage in effect at the time of such change. Any private carrier must be approved and licensed by the Insurance Department of the State of New York.
From and after the date of execution of this Agreement and for employees retiring on or after January 1, 1974, the County will assume the payment of said retiree's health insurance premiums which become due following the date of the execution of this Agreement, in accordance with the coverage (individual or family) which the employee had at the time of retirement.
Effective June 1, 1981, the Employer will implement an experimental policy, for the duration of this.contract, to allow employees eligible for participation in the Saratoga County Health Insurance Plan to provide for their own health insurance, Each employee (except employees whose spouses are eligible for the plan) eligible for the Saratoga County Health Insurance Plan may elect to refuse participation in the plan and provide for their own health insurance.
The County will place $150.00 in a trust account for each month that the employee is eligible but does not elect coverage under the County Health Insurance Plan. The employee will receive the funds so accumulated by December 15 of each year or upon termination from the County. The County acknowledges that in the event that an employee elects to provide for his or her own health
-io-
insurance coverage, and such self-provided coverage is subsequently terminated, said employee will be granted coverage under the County Health Insurance Plan on the first day of the month following notification of the termination of other coverage. Employees hired by the County before January 1, 2001 who have opted out of the County Health Insurance Plan may opt back into the plan, as appropriate, at some future date and will be provided coverage at the same level (100%) as other employees hired by the County before January 1, 2001.
Section 3.	The Employer shall continue to provide New York State Disability Insurance for all employees covered under this Agreement. Each employee shall pay the maximum weekly amount as provided under statute. The employer reserves the right to change carriers provided the benefits are equal to or better than those currently available.
Section 4.	The Employer agrees to continue to provide Malpractice Insurance for all public health nurses, all employees of Ballston Infirmary and Health Related Facility involved in patient care. The Employer shall pay the full cost of such insurance.
Section 5■ Employees who are absent due to a work-incurred injury or disability covered under Workers’ Compensation, shall continue to be covered under the County’s Health Insurance Plan as though they were actively employed, for a period of six (6) months, beginning with the onset of such absence. At the end of such six (6) months, the Law and Finance Committee of the Board will review the matter and may, at their discretion, grant an additional period of coverage up to six (6) additional months.
Section 6.	Dental Plan
Effective January 1, 1986, all permanent employees of the County payroll will be eligible for the Saratoga County Dental Plan. The Employer will provide the Blue Shield Dental Plan with basic coverage and rider A-l.
(A)	The Employer shall pay the cost of the aforesaid dental plan or other plans selected by the Employer for individual and dependent coverage as selected by the employee. In case of a husband and wife where both spouses are eligible employees and one enrolls for family coverage, the other spouse is not eligible for coverage except as a dependent of the enrolled spouse.
(B)	The County acknowledges that in the event that an employee elects to provide for his or her own dental plan coverage, and such self-provided coverage is subsequently terminated, said employee will be granted coverage under the County Plan at the earliest possible date following notification of termination of the other dental coverage.
(C)	In the event of a change of the dental plan carrier, such change shall be made by the Employer only after not less than sixty days written notice to and consultation with CSEA. The terms "carrier'1 or "private carrier" shall include the County of Saratoga under any self-insurance plan.
-11-
The benefits provided by the new carrier shall be substantially equal to or better than the benefits provided by the coverage in effect at the time of such change. Any private carrier must be approved and licensed by the Insurance Department of the State of New York.
(D)	This dental plan will not be provided to persons after retiring from County employment.
Section 7.	The County agrees to implement a Section 125 Internal Revenue Code Plan effective January 1, 2001.
ARTICLE VIII
Holidays
Section 1. All County employees shall enjoy 12 paid holidays per year for the duration of this Agreement. The holidays are as follows:
New Year’s Day	Labor Day
Martin Luther King’s Birthday	Columbus Day
Lincoln's Birthday	Veteran's Day
Washington's Birthday	Thanksgiving Day
Memorial Day	Friday after Thanksgiving
Independence Day	Christmas Day
Section 2A. When a holidays falls on a Saturday, the day to be observed shall be the preceding Friday, and when a holiday falls on a Sunday, the day shall be observed on the following Monday.
Section 2B. For those Infirmary and Sewer District employees routinely scheduled to work Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays, the Actual Holiday will be observed.
All other employees in the Infirmary and Sewer District will observe the holidays as detailed in Article VIII, Section 2A.
Section 2C. For the purpose of determining which employees on the third shift (or night shift) shall receive holiday pay -
In the Infirmary, for the 11:00p.m. to 7:00a.m. shift
ONLY, the holiday will start at 11:00p.m. the night before the actual holiday and end at 7:00a.m., end of shift, on the actual holiday.
In the Sewer District, for the 11:30p.m. to 8:00a.m. and 11:30p.m. to 12 noon shift ONLY, the holiday will start at 11:30p.m. the night before the actual holiday, and end at 8:00a.m. or 12 noon, end of shift, on the actual holiday. For the 11:30a.m. to 12 midnight shift, the holiday ends at 12 midnight.
-12-
Section 3.	If a holiday(s) falls within a vacation period of an employee, the vacation period of such employee shall be extended by the holiday(s) that falls within the employee’s vacation period.
Section 4.	An employee scheduled to work on the day before a holiday, a holiday or the day after a holiday shall report to work or forfeit his or her holiday pay. This provision shall be waived when such employee is on sick leave, duly authorized personal leave, bereavement leave or other type of duly authorized paid leave. In this instance(s) the employee shall be deemed to have worked and shall receive his or her holiday pay as well as any other pay due him or her.
Section 5.	Any full-time County employee required to work on a holiday as depicted in Section 1 shall have the option of receiving time and one-half for the holiday worked in addition to an alternative day off (i.e., bank the holiday). The employee may otherwise elect to receive double time and one-half for the holiday worked, exclusive of on-call status per Article VI, Section SB. In no event shall the calculation of time worked on a holiday exceed the benefit detailed above.
ARTICLE IX
Vacation
Section 1.	An employee shall be entitled to vacation only upon completion of one year of service.
For purposes of computing vacation entitlement, employee's anniversary date shall be defined as the date of original appointment with Saratoga County (exclusive of time spent in CETA work experience program) provided there was no break in service of more than one year. The anniversary date will be adjusted to reflect unpaid leaves of absence of more than three months.
After completion of one year of service and until completion of seven (7) years of service, an employee shall be entitled to two weeks paid vacation.
After completion of seven (7) years of service and until completion of eleven (11) years of service, an employee shall be entitled to three weeks paid vacation.
Upon completion of eleven (11) years of service, an employee shall be entitled to four (4) weeks paid vacation.
For employees hired on or after January 1, 1971, the anniversary date of his or her employment shall determine his or her eligibility for vacation period. Accrued vacation shall be taken within the twelve month period following the anniversary date of his or her employment.
For employees hired prior to January 1, 1971, vacations shall continue to be taken during the following calendar year.
-13-
Section 2.	An employee upon termination of his or her service with the Employer shall receive cash payment for all vacation days due the employee at the time of his or her termination.
No vacation shall accrue until the completion by the employee of twelve months of employment and vacation periods thereafter shall accrue only upon the completion of each twelve month period of employment.
Section 3.	With good reason shown and with the written approval of the Department Head and the Personnel Officer, all or part of any employee’s vacation may be carried over to the succeeding year providing that application is made to the Department Head not less than 90 days prior to the termination of the period of employment during which said vacation period would normally be taken.
Section 4.	If an employee becomes ill while on vacation, such employee shall be allowed to use sick leave for the illness and have his or her vacation time adjusted provided such employee notifies his or her immediate supervisor of the change and submits a physician’s statement to such supervisor upon his or her return to work.
Section 5.	Should a death occur in the immediate family of an employee on vacation, such employee shall be allowed to use his or her bereavement leave as stated in this Agreement and have his or her vacation credited with the number of days used.
Section 6.	Unless otherwise modified by the above, the vacation selection policy of the County shall continue in full force.
Section 7.	Departmental Seniority (as defined in Article XII, Section 1) shall be a determining factor in evaluating request for use of leave accruals.
Section 8,	Vacation Requests for Employees of the Health Related Facility and County Infirmary.
A.	All vacation requests shall be responded to, in writing, within two (2) weeks of submittal.
B.	It is expressly recognized that a response stating "At this time the request cannot be approved", shall be accompanied by a reason for such denial.
C.	The practice of rotating vacation leave (limited to 2-3 days) around holidays (Christmas) will continue, as determined by the Supervisor.
ARTICLE X
Leave Policies
Section 1. Sick leave with Pay.
A.	An employee of Saratoga County shall be granted sick leave with pay of one working day per month or 12 working days per year. An employee may accumulate sick leave to a maximum of 200 days, which leave may be taken in one hour units or full days units as needed and provided for by the provision of this Article.
-14-
B.	(1) Any employee covered under this Agreement shall be allowed to take sick leave with pay up to the maximum amount accumulated by the employee because of personal sickness or disability or up to a maximum of one-third (1/3) of their accumulated sick leave in any year because of sickness or disability of a member of such employee’s immediate family. Immediate family shall be defined as spouse, mother, father, or children. In addition, the employee shall be allowed to take sick leave for other members of the family meeting the Internal Revenue Service dependency definition and who are living in the same household.
(2)	An employee who is absent because of illness or disability for more than two (2) consecutive days maybe required by his or her Department Head to provide a physician's statement of sickness or disability. In the event a pattern of abuse is discerned by the Department Head, a physician’s statement may be required at any time and the employee may be ordered to be examined by a physician selected by the County at the expense of the County.
(3)	Allowable and allowed sick leave time as well as other paid leaves under this Agreement shall be considered for all purposes as continuous service.
(4)	Any employee isolated or quarantined because of exposure to a communicable disease while performing his or her duties shall receive full pay for the period of isolation or quarantine without loss of sick leave or other type of leave. In order to receive such full pay without loss of sick leave or other type of leave, the employee shall be quarantined or isolated by a public health officer.
Any employee isolated or quarantined because of exposure to a communicable disease while not in the performance of his or her duties shall be allowed to use his or her accumulated sick leave as per this Article.
(5)	An employee who becomes pregnant and is an employee of the County of Saratoga shall be allowed to work for as long as she is physically able. The employee shall notify her Department Head by the fifth month of such pregnancy and present a doctor’s statement of fitness by the seventh month. Prior to beginning her leave, the employee shall provide her Department Head with a statement noting the length of the leave and the date of her expected return. The employee shall be allowed to take a leave of absence for a period not to exceed one year. Upon her return from the leave, the employee shall be reinstated to the position she vacated and her seniority returned. In addition, such employee shall be placed on the same step of salary schedule which she had attained at the time such leave began. If unpaid leave portion of employee's maternity leave amounts to 90 calendars days or less, all unused accrued sick leave, etc., shall be reinstated and anniversary date will not be affected.
(6)	An employee who is injured because of his employment and is unable to perform his work may use his accumulated sick or vacation time, thereby receiving his full pay; or, he may elect to be paid the Workers' Compensation rate directly by the Self-Insurance Pool. His pay from the Self-Insurance Pool will be based on his degree of disability up to a maximum of 2/3 of his regular pay during the prior year for total disability. The total rate cannot exceed the current maximum Workers’ Compensation rate.
-15-
If an employee has no accumulated sick or vacation days, he will be paid directly by the Self-Insurance Pool at the compensation rate.
In the event the employee uses his accumulated sick time, the Self-Insurance Pool will reimburse his employer at the proper compensation rate up to 2/3 of salary, and the employer in turn will reinstate the equivalent sick or vacation days up to a maximum of 2/3 of the sick or vacation days used by the employee.
Lump-sum payments made for schedule loss injuries shall be retained by the employee after deducting the advance salary paid the claimant during his recover period by his employer and/or any advance payments previously made directly to him for any period during which his right to benefits under the Workers’ Compensation Law were not determined. This reimbursement will be made according to an order by the Workers’ Compensation Law Judge.
Section 2■ Personnel Leave:
After one year of service and on prior approval of the Department Head, all employees shall be granted personal leave with pay not to exceed three work days in any year, which leave may be taken in one hour units or full days units as needed. Such personal leave days when used shall not be deducted from employees sick leave accumulation credits and, if not used, shall be added to employees sick leave accumulation.
Section 3.	Bereavement Leave.
A.	Employees shall be allowed to be absent without loss of pay, by reason of each death in the immediate family for 5 consecutive calendar days dating from the death of the relative. For purposes of this section, the term "immediate family" shall mean parent, brother, sister, spouse, child, step-parent or step-child.
B.	Employees shall be allowed to be absent without loss of pay, by reason of each death of close relative for three consecutive calendar days dating from death of the relative. For purposes of this section, "close relative" shall be defined as grandparent, grandchild, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law of employee.
Section 4	A. Leave of Absence:
A leave of absence without pay not to exceed the maximum period permitted by law may be granted for full-time employees, upon recommendation by the Department Head to the Personnel Officer and with said Personnel Officer's approval.
Notice of such leave of absence may be filed with such Department head. Leave of absence may be granted for the following reasons only: Professional training or improvement, extended personal or family illness and military service. An employee who is granted a leave of absence by the Department Head and the Personnel Officer shall at the termination of the leave of absence, upon application therefore, be reinstated with seniority and all accrued benefits to the position he or she held at the commencement of the leave of absence. In addition, such employee shall be placed on the same step of the salary schedule which he or she had attained at the time the leave began.
-16-
Section 4 B. Leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act would begin when the employee goes on unpaid leave status and may be used for any of the following reasons only:
to care for the employee's child after birth, or placement for adoption or foster care;
to care for the employee's spouse, son or daughter, or parent, who has a serious health condition;
for a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform the employee's job.
Employees taking leave pursuant to the Family and Medical Leave Act, due to their own serious health condition, shall be required to use their accrued sick time (if any) during such leave.
Section 4	C. Military Leave of Absence
1.	Any employee who is required by any branch of the Armed Forces of the United States of which he/she is a reserve member, the National Guard, or the State Militia, to render military service, including daily drills, shall be granted a military leave of absence at full pay for all such period, not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days a year, pursuant to Section 242 and 243 of the Military Laws of the State of New York.
2.	In addition, due to the strong support by Saratoga County of the dedication and sacrifice of all members of the Reserve and National Guard Forces of this State or Nation, the County will, in the event of the involuntary activation of a County employee to serve in the Reserve or National Guard Forces of this State and Nation:
a.	continue any existing health insurance benefit coverage for such employees for a period of such involuntary activation not to exceed the first 180 days of such service; and also,
b.	pay, upon application, to such employee the difference, if any, between the employee's normal County salary and the military pay for a a period of such involuntary activation not to exceed the first 180 days of such service.
Section 5.	Reinstatement. Reinstatement shall be governed by the recommendation of the Department Head to the Personnel Officer and with said Personnel officer's approval. If an employee leaves a department for any reason, and is rehired by the same or another department of the County after no more than 90 calendar days, all accrued sick leave, etc., shall be reinstated.
Section 6.	Jury Duty:
Any employee will be paid the difference between his or her Jury Duty pay and his or her regular pay. Employees are to return to regular duties provided he or she has four or more hours left of his or her regular scheduled day.
-17-
ARTICLE XI
Working Conditions
Section 1 A. All employment vacancies throughout the county shall be posted within all facilities and worksites for forty-eight (48) hours, except in an emergency situation, unless a civil service eligibility list exists, copies of said postings shall be forwarded to the union president at the time of posting. During the period of such posting, interested employees may apply on the form provided by the department administrator.
The selection of the employee for placement shall be made by the department administrator based on his/her determination of the qualifications and seniority of all employees so applying. If the qualifications are deemed to be equal, the senior employee shall be selected and the administrator's decision shall be final.
The parties agree that this provision shall not be so interpreted so as to preclude the consideration of non-employee applicants for the position by the administrator.
Section IB. Where the employment in a department is carried on by shifts, no person who has been employed on a particular shift for a period of one year or more shall be chariged to a different shift except temporarily during an emergency without the consent of the employee except where, in the discretion of the Department Head, such change is necessary for the efficient operation of such Department, in which case the CSEA shall be notified at least 2 weeks in advance of such change and the reasons therefore.
In all cases of change in shift assignments, temporary or permanent, reasonable notice thereof where possible shall be afforded to the employee to allow necessary changes of that employee to accommodate the change.
Section 2.	All County employees shall be placed on a 26 payroll period, whereby an employee shall receive his or her paycheck every two weeks.
Section 3.	Mileage:
A.	Authorized use of personal vehicles for official County business shall be reimbursable at the maximum allowed rate set by the Internal Revenue Service. Such rate changes will occur the first day of January following the publication of said rate changes by the I.R.S.
B.	The County will provide excess insurance coverage on its auto Insurance policy up to a one million dollar limit at no cost to the employee. Such coverage is for the employee's protection but only when the employee is using his/her private vehicle on official County business. The excess coverage is effective once the limits of the employee's personal insurance have been reached.
C.	The County will provide the defensive driving course at no cost to the employees who are issued a blue card by the County.
-18-
Section 4.	DPW/Highway Merit Ratings:
Any increase in the hourly rate of a DPW/Highway employee shall be made by the Commissioner of Public Works only after notice thereof has been given to the CSEA Unit President who shall be given a reasonable opportunity to express his/her views thereon. CSEA shall have the right to challenge any such increase where CSEA reasonably believes that such increase may undermine the "merit” system. Such challenge shall be made pursuant to the grievance procedure.
An increase based upon merit or granted to retain the services of a valued employee shall not be the basis for challenge. The question of merit and the extent of any raise, however, shall be subject to review in a grievance procedure.
Section 5.	In the event of a reduction in personnel (see Article XII) in a department, the County shall endeavor to offer these employees other suitable County employment.
Section 6.	All non-competitive and labor class employees who have two (2) years of service shall be covered under the procedure set forth in Article XIX as it relates to removal and/or suspension.
Section 7.	The County shall furnish all employees of the County check stubs showing deductions from their pay.
Section 8.	Coffee breaks and/or rest periods shall be allowed to continue but said coffee breaks and/or rest periods shall not exceed two (2) per day and no period shall exceed ten (10) minutes duration. The Department Head shall schedule coffee breaks and/or rest periods for all employees.
Section 9.	Free health examinations will be given to an employee, when required by the County, to include lab, x-ray and Doctor’s fee. The doctor will be selected by the County.
Section 10.	The Employer and the CSEA reaffirm the concept of Central Maintenance as established in Board Resolution 230 of 1972. If it should be necessary for an employee to report to a new work site (e.g., Infirmary, Solar Building, Outside Crew, etc.) on a regular basis, the selection of the employee(s) affected shall be made by the Deputy Commissioner of Buildings and Maintenance based on his determination of the qualifications and seniority of all employees of DPW Central Maintenance. If the qualifications are deemed to be equal, the least senior employee shall be moved.
ARTICLE XII
Layoff of Non-Competitive and Labor Class Employees
Section 1.	Definitions
Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous service with the Employer from the date of last hire of the employee(s).
Title Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous service of an employee since date of last entry of such employee(s) into the title.
-19-
Departmental Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous service of an employee since date of last entry of such employee(s) into the Department.
Days - Unless otherwise specified, for the purpose of this Article, days shall mean calendar days.
Section 2.	Whenever positions in the non-competitive or labor class are abolished, layoffs shall be made among employes holding the same job title in the affected department in the inverse order of original appointment on a permanent basis in the classified service of Saratoga County. In instances where two or more employees have the same date of original appointment, their relative seniority shall be determined by the drawing of lots which shall be conducted under the supervision of the Saratoga County Personnel Officer with CSEA Unit President or designee as an observer.
Section 3.	For the purposes of this Article, the original appointment of an employee shall mean the date of his first appointment on a permanent basis in the classified service followed by continuous service in the classified service on a permanent basis up to the time of the abolition of the position. Continuous service shall not be interrupted by any of the following circumstances:
(A)	Resignation of employee and reinstatement or reappointment to the classified service within one year.
(B)	Termination, of an employee due to disability resulting from occupational injury as defined in the Workers' Compensation Law and subsequent reinstatement to County service.
(C)	A period of employment on a temporary or provisional basis or in the unclassified service immediately preceded and followed by permanent service in the classified service.
(D)	A leave of absence without pay which is granted pursuant to the rules of the Saratoga County Personnel Officer
(E)	Time spent on layoff status while awaiting a recall. Such time may not exceed four years or the date on which a recall is offered, whichever comes first.
Section 4 A. If an employee is laid off in his or her job title, the employee shall exercise his or her right to displace an employee in a lower job title who has less department seniority, provided that if there is a question regarding ability to do the job, the bumping employee shall be given a probationary period of up to thirty (30) calendar days to demonstrate his or her ability to do the job. Recalls shall be in the inverse order of layoff. The Employer shall notify the employee of his or her recall by registered mail with return receipt requested at the employee's last known address. Such recall notification must be acknowledge by the employee within seven (7) working days of receipt. If the employee does not acknowledge such notification within the above state period and return to work upon a date designated by the Employer, he/she shall be considered to have resigned from his or her position with Saratoga County unless there are extenuating circumstances as determined by the Employer.
-20-
Section 4	B. All part-time and temporary employees in each title shall be laid off prior to the layoff of full-time employees. The layoff procedure for full-time employees as stated herein shall be used in the event of the layoff of any temporary and then part-time employees.
Section 4 C. Any employee(s) who is laid off and is able to bump into a lower title shall be slotted into the seniority list of the lower title in accordance with his or her departmental seniority. Any further layoff of an employee(s) shall be in accordance with the seniority of the employee(s) as provided in this subsection. If an employee(s) is recalled to the position(s) into which he or she bumped, the employee(s) shall be allowed to use his or her departmental seniority to prevent another layoff. In the aforementioned instance, an employee(s) shall not be forced to accept the recall to such position. The employee’s refusal to accept the recall shall not prejudice his or her right to be recalled to the position(s) from which he, she or they were originally laid off. The Employer shall recall employees to positions as provided in Section 4A of this Article. When an employee(s) is recalled to the position from which he or she was originally laid off, the type of seniority described in Section 1 for an employee(s) shall be adhered to in case of any future layoffs.
Section 4 D. An employee who is laid off and bumps into a lower title shall be paid at a rate of pay in the lower title which is commensurate with the number of increments received by such employee when the layoff occurred or which is commensurate with the same relative position on salary schedule, including all longevity steps and increments or merit raises which the employee had attained when layoff occurred.
Upon being recalled to a position(s), the employee(s) recalled shall receive the rate of pay that he or she was receiving when.the layoff occurred or if an increase has been provided, such employee(s), shall receive such increase in pay in addition to the aforementioned rate of pay. Such increase shall be added to the rate of pay.
Section 5.	Seniority Lists:
In the event of a contemplated layoff, the Employer shall provide the Union with lists containing title, departmental and County-wide seniority dates of each employee not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of the contemplated layoff.
Section 6♦ Notice of Layoff:
The Employer shall give the Union thirty (30) days notice of layoff of an employee(s) in the bargaining unit and meet with the Union to discuss the anticipated layoffs if requested to do so by the Unit President or other representative of such Union.
Section 7. Coverage of Employes:
This Article shall apply only to those non-competitive and labor class employees who have not less than two (2) years of service.
-21-
ARTICLE XIII
Layoff of Competitive Class Employees
All competitive employees shall be governed under the appropriate provisions of the Civil Service Law as it pertains to layoff, bumping and recall.
ARTICLE XIV
Separability
Section 1 A. If any article or part thereof in this Agreement or any addition thereto should be decided as in violation of any federal, state or local law; or if adherence to or enforcement of any article or part thereof should be restrained by a court of law, the remaining articles of the Agreement, or any addition thereto, shall not be affected.
Section 1 B. If a determination or decision is made as per (A) of this Article, the original parties to this Agreement shall convene immediately for purposes of negotiation a satisfactory replacement for such article or part thereof.
ARTICLE XV
Reciprocal Rights
The Employer recognizes the right of the employees to designate representatives of the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc,, to appear on their behalf to discuss salaries, working conditions, grievances and disputes as to the terms and conditions of this Contract and to visit employees during working hours. Such employee representatives shall also be permitted to appear at public hearings before the Legislative Body upon request of the employees.
Section 1.	The Employer and the CSEA shall so administer its obligations under this Contract in a manner which will be fair and impartial to all employees and shall not discriminate against any employee by reason of sex, age, nationality, race or creed, color or disability.
Section 2.	The CSEA, Inc., shall have the right to post notices and other communications on bulletin boards maintained on the premises and facilities of the Employer. The officers and agents of the CSEA, Inc., all have the right to visit the Employer's facilities for the purpose of adjusting grievances and administering the terms and conditions of this Contract. Prior to entering or at the time of entering the facilities of the Employer, the officers and/or agents of CSEA shall notify the Department Head or his/her designee if available of the visit.
Section 3« Employees who are designated or elected for the purpose of adjusting grievances or assisting in the administration of this Contract shall be permitted a reasonable amount of time free from their regular duties to fulfill these obligations, which have as their purpose the maintenance of harmonious and cooperative relations between the Employer and the employees and the uninterrupted operation of Government. Such free time, however, shall be charged against the time allowed by Article XV, Section 6, hereof.
-22-
Section 4.	The CSEA agrees to do its utmost to see that its members perform their respective duties loyally, efficiently and continuously under the terms of this Agreement. The CSEA and its members will use their best endeavors to protect the interests of the County of Saratoga, to conserve the property, protect the public and to give service of the highest quality.
Section 5.	Labor-management meetings may be called by Management or the Union at the request of the employee of any Department, not to exceed two per year, with two employee representatives from the Department. The Department Head will notify employee representatives within three days of the request for a meeting of the time and place for such meeting and hold the meeting not more than 10 working days following initial notification. CSEA and the County may each select a representative to appear at said hearing.
Section 6■ The County of Saratoga shall allow representatives of CSEA a total of two hundred and forty (240) hours per year for the purpose of conducting CSEA business. However, it must be limited to one hundred and twenty (120) hours for any one employee. They shall be compensated at their regular rate of pay for this time off. it is the responsibility of the employee to complete the necessary leave form furnished by the Employer which will give a 72-hour notice to his or her immediate supervisor. Provided, however, that where 72-hour notice is impracticable and there is good cause showing why the 72-hour notice could not be given, then a minimum of 24-hours notice to the supervisor must be given. The form will be forwarded by the supervisor to the appropriate Department Head, thereby properly notifying the Department Head. The Department Head will forward the form to the Personnel Officer, who will return copies as indicated on the form.
Section 7.	The Employer shall supply the CSEA Unit President with 100 copies of this Contract.
Section 8.	Safety:
The parties hereto agree and acknowledge the duty and obligation of the County to provide a safe working environment for all County employees. The parties also agree and acknowledge the duty and obligation of all County employees to abide by such standards and rules promulgated by the County and/or OSHA (as may be applicable) to ensure such a safe working environment. The failure to observe and/or abide by such standards and rules may constitute a basis for disciplinary action by the County.
ARTICLE XVI
Past Practice Clause
All terms and conditions of employment previously granted to the employees by the Employer, unless specifically excluded by or in conflict with this Agreement, shall be continued except where it is determined by the Department Head that the work load or the efficiency of operations is impaired thereby. The "Employer” is defined as the Board of Supervisors and not the Department head.
-23-
ARTICLE XVII
Uniforms
Section 1.	All employees of the County Infirmary (including store clerks), and other Health Related Facilities, all Public Health Nurses, and all Home Health Aides, who are required to wear a uniform by the Employer and/or the state of New York shall receive a uniform allowance of two hundred ($200) dollars per year effective January 1, 2001. Such allowance shall be paid to each employee by the first (1st) pay period in March.
Section 2.	For first year employees, the pro rata uniform allowance will be paid on the first pay period in March of their second calendar year based upon their appointment date in the previous year as indicated below:
(a)	January	1	to March 31	100%
(b)	April 1	to June 30	75%
(c)	July 1 to	September 30	50%
(d)	October	1	to December 31 25%
Section 3.	Employees authorized to receive a uniform allowance who take an unpaid leave of absence will have their adjusted uniform allowance determined by the following formula:
Uniform allowance divided by twelve, multiplied by number of months leave of absence, subtracted from total uniform allowance, equals adjusted uniform allowance. For purposes of this Section, one month shall be the equivalent of thirty calendar days, with each additional month being determined by the completion of each additional thirty calendar days.
Section 4.	A safety shoe allowance of $75 per calendar year effective January 1, 2000 shall be provided for operators and maintenance personnel in the Sewer District and all employees in D.P.W. except clerical. It is understood that it will be required for operators and maintenance personnel in the Sewer District and all D.P.W. employees except clerical to wear safety shoes when engaged in the performance of their duties as Saratoga County employees.
Section 5.	A uniform laundry service will be provided for employees of the D.P.W. Building and Grounds Division. It is understood that those employees will be required to wear the uniform when engaged in the performance of their duties as Saratoga County employees. The uniform service is not available to D.P.W./Highway employees.
Section 6.	Dietary Aides shall be furnished three (3) aprons in each calendar year.
-24-
ARTICLE XVIII
Grievances
Section 1. The grievance procedure for the employees in the bargaining unit shall be the following:
1.	Definitions
As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meaning:
(a)	'’Employee" shall mean any person directly employed and compensated by the County of Saratoga, except persons employed in the legislative or judicial branch thereof.
(b)	"Grievance" shall mean any claimed violation, misinterpretation or inequitable application of the employment contract, existing laws, rules, procedures, regulations, administrative orders or work rules of the County of Saratoga or a department thereof, which relate to or involve employee health or safety, physical facilities, materials or equipment furnished to employees,or supervision of employees; provided, however, that such term shall not include any matter which is otherwise reviewable pursuant to law or any rule or regulation having the force or effect of law.
(c)	"Department" shall mean any office, department, board, commission or other agency of the government of the County of Saratoga.
(d)	’’Immediate Supervisor" shall mean the employee or officer on the next higher level of authority above the employee in the department wherein the grievance exists and who normally assigns and supervises the employee's work and approves his time record or evaluates his work performance.
(e)	"Department Head" shall mean that person so designated pursuant to charter, local law, administrative code, rule or resolution of the Board of Supervisors as the head of a department, as defined in subdivision "c" hereof.
(f)	"Decision" shall mean the ruling, determination or report or disposition made by an immediate supervisor, Department Head or grievance board after a grievance is heard or submitted as in this act provided.
(g)	"Days" shall mean all days other than Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in computing the number of days within which action must be taken or notice given within the terms of this act.
2.	DECLARATION OF BASIC PRINCIPLE
Every employee of this County shall have the right to present his grievance in accordance with the procedures provided herein free from interference, coercion, restrain, discrimination or reprisal, and shall have the right to be represented by a person of his own choosing at all stages of grievance procedure.
-25-
3.
INITIAL PRESENTATION
(a)	An employee who claims to have a grievance shall present his grievance to his immediate supervisor, orally, within ten (10) days after the grievance occurs.
(b)	The immediate supervisor shall discuss the grievance with the employee, shall make such investigation as he deems appropriate and shall consult with his supervisors to such extent as he deems appropriate, all on an informal basis.
(c)	Within five (5) days after presentation of the grievance to him, the immediate supervisor shall make his decision and communicate the same to the employee presenting the grievance, and to the employee’s representative, if any.
4.	SECOND STAGE
(a)	If an employee presenting a grievance be not satisfied with the decision made by his immediate supervisor, he may, within five (5) working days thereafter, request a review and determination of his grievance by the Department Head. Such a request shall be in writing and shall contain a statement of the specific nature of the grievance and the facts relating to it. Such request shall be served upon both the Department Head and the immediate supervisor to whom the grievance was originally presented. Thereupon, and within five (5) days after receiving such request, the immediate supervisor shall submit to the Department Head a written statement of his information concerning the specific nature of the grievance and the facts relating to it.
(b)	The Department Head or his designee, may and at the request of the employee shall, hold an information hearing within seven (7) days after receiving the written request and statement from the employee. The employee and his representatives, if any, may appear at the hearing and present oral or written statements or arguments.
(c)	Within ten (10) days after the close of the hearing, or within ten (10) days after the grievance has been submitted to him if there be no hearing, the Department Head, or his designee, shall make his decision in writing and communicate the same to the employee presenting the grievance and to the employee’s representative, if any.
5.	GRIEVANCE BOARDS
(a)	A grievance board of three (3) members to be appointed by, and to serve at the pleasure of, the Chairman, of the Board of Supervisors, is hereby established to hear appeals from decisions of department heads on grievances. In the event of the disqualification, unavailability or other disability of a member or members of the Grievance Board to hear a specific appeal, the Chairman of the Board of Supervisors is authorized to bring the Grievance Board to full complement for such case by appointing, temporarily, the necessary member or members.
Such Grievance Board shall have jurisdiction over grievances involving all County employees.
-26-
(b)	A hearing of any matter before the respective grievance board may be conducted by any one or more members of the board, designated by the Board to act on its behalf; provided, however, that if less than the full board presides at such hearing, the member or members thereof conducting such hearing shall render a report thereon to the full board and the full board shall thereupon make its report.
(c)	Two concurring votes shall be necessary to determine any official report or action of the grievance board.
(d)	Necessary funds, supplies, facilities and personnel to implement operation of the grievance boards shall be provided by the Board of Supervisors.
(e)	The respective grievance board may make and amend rules and regulations for the conduct of its proceedings not inconsistent with the provisions of this act. A complete and up-to-date set of such rules and amendments shall be kept on file in the County Clerk’s Office.
6.	APPEALS TO GRIEVANCE BOARDS
(a)	An employee may appeal from the decision of the Department Head or designee of the Department Head within ten (10) days after the notice of such decision. The appeal shall be taken by submitting to 'the appropriate grievance board a written statement signed by the employee taking the appeal, containing:
(1)	The name, residence address, and Department of employment of the employee presenting the grievance.
(2)	The name, residence address, and Department of employment of each other employee or official involved in the grievance.
(3)	The name and address of the employee's representative, if any, and his Department of employment if he be a fellow employee.
(4)	A concise statement of the nature of the grievance, the facts relating to it and the proceedings and decisions of the grievance up to the time of the appeal.
(5)	A request for a review of the decision of the Department Head or his nominee.
(b)	The respective grievance board may request the Department Head to submit a written statement of facts, including a summary of the record of the hearings, if there was a hearing, and the original or a true copy of any other record or document used by the Department Head or his designee in making his decision. Such written request shall be submitted within ten (10) days after request by the grievance board.
-27-
(c)	The respective grievance board shall hold a hearing within ten (10) days after receiving the written request for a review. It shall give at least three (3) days’ notice in writing of the time and place of such hearing to the employee/ the employee’s representative/ if any, and the Department Head or his designeet all of whom shall be entitled to be present at the hearing.
(d)	The hearing on the appeal may be held in public or in private as determined by the grievance board.
(e)	New evidence/ testimony or argument/ as well as any documents, exhibits, or other information submitted to the Department Head or his designee at the hearing held by him may be introduced at the hearing by the employee, by the Department Head, or his designee or upon the request of the grievance board.
(f)	The hearing may be adjourned from time to time by the grievance board if in its judgment such adjournment is necessary. The total of all such adjournments, however, shall not exceed ten (10) days, except that adjournments consented to by both the employee and the Department Head shall not be counted in determining the total days of adjournment as herein limited.
(gj The grievance board shall not be bound by formal rules of evidence.
(h)	A written summary shall be kept of each hearing held by the grievance board.
(i)	The grievance board shall make its report in writing within ten (10) days after the close of the hearing. It shall immediately file its report and the written summary of the proceedings with the County Clerk and shall at the time send a copy of its report to the employee, the employee’s representative, if any, and the Department Head. The report shall include a statement of the board’s findings of fact, conclusions and advisory recommendations.
7.	ARBITRATION
If the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc. is not satisfied with the decision of the Grievance Board and the Civil Service Employees Association determines that the grievance is meritorious, it may submit the grievance to arbitration by written notice to the Chairman of the County Board of Supervisors within fifteen (15) working days of the decision at the Grievance Board stage.
Within five (5) working days after such written notice of submission to arbitration, the County Board of Supervisors or its designee and the Civil service Employees Association will agree upon a mutually acceptable arbitrator competent in the area of the grievance and will obtain a commitment from said arbitrator to serve. If the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator, or to obtain such a commitment within a specified period (five (5) working days from agreeing upon an arbitrator), a request for a list of arbitrations will be made to the Public Employment Relations Board by either party. The parties will then be bound by the rules and procedures of the Public Employment Relations Board in the selection of an arbitrator.
-28-
The selected arbitrator will hear the matter promptly and will issue his decision not later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the close of the hearings, or, if oral hearings have been waived, then from the date the final statements and proofs are submitted to him. The arbitrator’s decision will be in writing and will set forth his findings of fact, reasoning and conclusions on the issues. The cost of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by both parties. The arbitrator’s decision shall be sent to all parties involved in the grievance.
The arbitrator’s decision will be advisory. Within ten (10) working days of the receipt of the arbitrator’s decision, the Grievance Board shall meet and make a final determination on the grievance. The Grievance Board shall base its determination on the arbitrator’s findings of fact and reasoning and shall submit such determination in writing to aggrieved and to the Saratoga County General Unit President.
8.	WAIVER OR EXTENSION OF TIME; TIME FOR DISCUSSIONS AND HEARINGS.
(a)	The time limitations for presentation and resolution of grievances as hereinabove fixed may be waived or extended by mutual agreement of the parties involved.
(b)	All discussions and hearings between an employee, his immediate supervisors, Department Head and grievance board shall, so far as practicable, be conducted during working hours.
(c)	The CSEA unit president shall have the right to initiate a grievance at Step 2 of the grievance procedure which involves more than one unit member or employee. Such grievance shall contain a general description of the employees involved in the matter, including, if possible the name of such employees, the title and work location of such employees.
ARTICLE XIX
Discipline and Discharge
SECTION 1.	An employee covered by this Agreement who has successfully completed his/her probationary period shall utilize the following procedure for disciplinary and discharge matters in lieu and in place of procedures specified in Section 75, 76 and 77 of the Civil Service Law.
SECTION 2.	All employees within the non-competitive and labor class of the County shall receive, after two (2) years of full-time consecutive service, access to this provision.
SECTION 3.	Disciplinary action shall include, but is not limited to written reprimands, suspension, demotion, discharge, fines or any combination thereof or other such penalties as may be imposed by the Employer. A notice of such discipline shall be made in writing and served upon the employee with a copy to the County Personnel Officer and to the CSEA Unit President or his/her official designee, the specific acts for which discipline is being imposed and the penalty shall be specified in the notice. In the event that an employee is to receive a penalty of suspension without pay or a penalty of termination, a pre-suspension or termination hearing will be held to
-29-
comply with existing case law, which hearing will involve the County, the affected employee, and representative from the Union if the employee so elects. The purpose of this hearing is solely to comply with case law regarding the need for such a hearing prior to a suspension or termination of a tenured public employee. An employee must be served with a notice of discipline either personally or, if the employee is on a leave of absence or is unavailable due to an unauthorized leave of absence, then by certified mail, return receipt requested to the employee's last known residential address. A penalty may not be imposed for at least one working day after service is complete.
SECTION 4., If the employee disagrees with the disciplinary action imposed, the employee may submit a request for independent arbitration to make a binding determination. If CSEA does not support the employee's desire to contest the discipline and penalty at arbitration, the employee shall be responsible for his/her prorata share of the cost of the fees and expenses of the arbitrator.
Failure to submit a written opposition within eight (8) working days of receipt of the notice of discipline will constitute acceptance of the imposed penalty by the employee and the matter will be settled in its entirety. Both parties agree to use the services of the New York State Public Employment Relations Board panel in the selection of the arbitrator. Subject to a mutual written agreement between the employee and the County Personnel Officer, the time limit herein above specified may be extended. The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be divided equally between the County and CSEA or the employee, as specified above.
SECTION 5■ An employee shall have the right to be represented in disciplinary matters by a CSEA representative if the employee elects to do so. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as limiting the right of an employee to informally resolve the disciplinary matter by settlement with the Department Head and the employee may waive his/her rights to the procedure as outlined herein. Any settlement agreed upon between the parties shall be reduced to writing and shall be final and binding upon all parties,
SECTION 6. No disciplinary action shall be commenced by the County more than eighteen (18) months after the occurrence of the alleged act(s) for which discipline is being considered? provided, however, that such time limitation shall not apply where the act(s) would, if proved in a court of appropriate jurisdiction, constitute a crime.
ARTICLE XX
Miscellaneous
Section 1.	The Employer agrees to provide Mobile Phone Beepers to employees who are on call in the Child Welfare Division of the Saratoga County Department of Social Services. The Employer shall pay the full cost of the Mobile Phone Beepers.
Section 2.	Employees in the Sewer District may apply to County designated physician(s) for medical authorizations to conduct an annual laboratory examination of blood, urine and stool to determine levels of bacteriological residue and/or toxicity. The County will assume the cost of such procedure not covered by the employee's health insurance coverage. It is understood that the procedure will be conducted during the non-working time of the employee, as scheduled by the laboratory, -30-
Section 3■
Food Maintenance Infirmary:
The current food maintenance practice at the County Infirmary shall be modified effective June 1, 1981 in accordance with the following:
(A)	Employees hired after 6/1/81 shall not be eligible for coverage under the Food Maintenance Policy.
(B)	An annual option to participate or not participate in the Food Maintenance Policy shall be offered to all other employees, with such first option to take effect 6/1/81 and extend to 5/31/82.
(C)	Costs of meals to employees (including costs of coffee and cold beverages) to be determined by the County and communicated each 5/15 to employees in advance of said option date. The basis for determining such meal price shall be shared with the CSEA.
(D)	If the manner of food serving on the 3rd shift is violative of any sanitary law or regulations, the food maintenance will be abandoned on that shift.
Section 4.	Education. Upon the prior approval of the Department head, an employee may be reimbursed sixty percent (60%) of the cost of college tuition up to a maximum of $600.00 per semester effective 1/1/01 and up to a maximum of $700.00 per semester effective 1/1/02, with a maximum being two semesters per calendar year, provided the courses involved are job-related or part of a recognized degree program. No employee shall receive such reimbursement unless the employee receives a grade of C or better in said course. All such courses must be taken during other than normal duty hours and nothing in this section is intended to imply that employees will be given time off to attend college courses.
Section 5.	Gender: any reference in this contract to the male gender, also refers to the female gender.
ARTICLE XXI
Transfers
Section 1.	A transfer of employee shall be defined as the geographic movement of an employee from one work site to another within Saratoga County within the same job title or classification except within the Village of Ballston Spa, New York.
Section 2.	The Employer shall be allowed to make permanent transfers only through a bidding process. The Employer shall announce the existence of the transfer for ten (10) days. At the end of such period, the Employer shall select one of the applying employees. The major factor in making such selection shall be the length of continuous service of each applying employee. The most senior applying employee shall generally receive the transfer.
Section 3.	The Employer shall be allowed to transfer an employee(s) from one job site to another when an emergency exists for up to ten (10) calendar days duration. The employee involved in such a transfer shall be compensated for any additional mileage involved in traveling from his home to the temporary work site in accordance with Section 3 of Article XI.
Section 4.	Transfers mandated by the elimination of work sites or job titles shall be made in accordance with the layoff procedures contained in this Agreement. Transfers caused by the creation of work sites or job titles shall be made in accordance with Section 2 of this Article.
Section 5.	If no one applies for the transfer, the Employer shall offer the position to employees in lower titles as a promotion by again posting the position for ten (10) days. The Employer shall select an employee based on qualifications and seniority. If the qualifications of the applying employees are equal, the applying employee with the most seniority shall receive the promotion.
Section 6.	All employees hired by the Department of Motor
Vehicles on or after January 1, 1991, may be temporarily transferred to any one of the Department’s substations, upon notice by the Department Head, for a period exceeding ten (10) days, but less than permanent. An employee that is involved in a temporary transfer shall be compensated for any additional mileage involved in traveling from his/her home to a substation in accordance with Section 3 of Article XI.
ARTICLE XXII
Employee Evaluations
Section 1.	Effective July 2, 1977, all employees of Saratoga County except hourly DPW/Highway employees are subject to an annual performance evaluation by Department Heads. An Employee Performance Evaluation form will be used for this purpose and is set forth in Appendix C of this contract. A copy of the annual evaluation will be filed with the County Personnel Officer and be made a part of the employees permanent record.
If the employee is not satisfied with evaluation, the employee may seek redress through the grievance procedure contained in this contract. The use of the grievance procedure shall be limited to an employee who has received less than a satisfactory rating. The employee shall receive a copy of the evaluation upon its review with the employee's supervisor.
Section 2.	An employee shall have the opportunity to review their official personnel folder kept on file in the County Personnel Office, in the presence of an appropriate official of the Personnel Department and the employee's Union representative. Such access shall not extend to confidential pre-employment reference material.
ARTICLE XXIII
Due Process Hearings
Where the County is required to negotiate the procedures for a due process hearing, the following shall be the negotiated procedure utilized:
-32-
The County may appoint a Hearing Officer who shall have the authority to receive testimony and evidence, issue subpoenas and issue an opinion and award. All parties to the hearing shall have the right to be represented by counsel at their own expense. The CSEA Unit President shall be notified that a hearing will be held and the subject matter of the hearing. The award may be appealed by the County or the employee pursuant to Article 78 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules. Such hearing officer may be a County employee provided such employee is unrelated to the case.
ARTICLE XXIV
Mandatory Legislative Clause
IT IS AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES THAT ANY PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT REQUIRING LEGISLATIVE ACTION TO PERMIT ITS IMPLEMENTATION BY AMENDMENT OF LAW OR BY PROVIDING THE ADDITIONAL FUNDS THEREFORE SHALL NOT BECOME EFFECTIVE UNTIL THE APPROPRIATE LEGISLATIVE BODY HAS GIVEN APPROVAL.
ARTICLE XXV
Zipper Clause
This Agreement is the entire Agreement between the County and the CSEA, terminates all prior Agreements and understandings and concludes all collective negotiations during its term. During the term of this Agreement, neither party will unilaterally seek to modify its terms through legislation or any other means. The parties agree to support jointly any legislation or administrative action necessary to implement the provisions of this Agreement. The parties acknowledge that, except as otherwise expressly, provided herein, they have fully negotiated with respect to the terms and conditions of employment and have settled them for the term of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions thereof.
ARTICLE XXVI
Term of Contract
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2000 AND SHALL TERMINATE AT THE CLOSE OF BUSINESS ON DECEMBER 31, 2004.
FOR THE CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION
-33-
SCHEDULE FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED PRIOR TO 7/2/77
	BASE	1st	2nd	3rd	4th	Sth	7th	9th	11th	18th	24th
	40,541	41,073	41,610	42,136	42,673	43,205	43,732	44,263	44,800	45,332	45,858
	38J96	39,323	39,855	40,391	40,918	41,455	41,987	42,513	43,045	43,582	44,114
	36,680	37,201	38,646	38,264	38,796	39,333	39,860	40,391	40,923	41,460	41,987
	32,772	33,293	33,830	34,367	34,899	35,425	35,962	36,489	37,025	37,552	38,089
	32*617	33,138	33,676	34,212	34,733	35,270	35,802	36,334	36,860	37,397	37,929
	32,209	32,735	33,267	33,804	34,336	34,862	35,394	35,931	36,463	36,989	37,526
	31,001	31,533	32,065	32,591	33,128	33,660	34,192	34,718	35,250	35,787	36,318
	30,438	30,970	31,502	32,028	32,565	33,097	33,629	34,155	34,687	35,224	35,755
	30,144	30,670	31,202	31,734	32,266	32,803	33,334	33,851	34,387	34,929	35,446
	29,499	30,030	30,531	31,094	31,625	32,157	32,694	33,221	33,747	34,284	34,816
	29,039	29,576	30,051	30,629	31,166	31,693	32,229	32,761	33,283	33,820	34,356
	27,563	28,094	28,621	29,158	29,690	30,216	30,748	31,285	31,811	32,348	32,880
	27,155	27,692	28,223	28,750	29,287	29,808	30,345	30,877	31,414	31,940	32,477
	26,814	27,346	27,878	28.404	28,936	29,468	30,004	30,531	31,063	31,595	32,126
	26,799	27,325	27,852	28.389	28,920	29,452	29,989	30,510	31,047	31,579	32,106
	26,690	27,227	27,759	28,291	28,817	29,349	29,881	30,417	30,944	31,478	32,002
	26,148	26,685	27,222	27,748	28,275	28,807	29,344	29,875	30,412	30,939	31,471	w
	25,874	26,411	26,948	27,475	28,007	28,538	29,070	29,602	30,139	30,665	31,197	S
	25,570	26,107	26,644	27,170	27,697	28,229	28,755	29,292	29,819	30,350	30,882	g	$
	24,734	25,265	25,802	26,329	26,855	27,392	27,924	28,456	28,987	29,514	30,051	*4	g
	24,316	24,847	25,384	25,921	26,437	26,974	27,511	28,038	28,574	29,096	23,633	M	g
	24,202	24,734	25,265	25,802	26,318	26,855	27,392	27,924	28,456	28,982	29,514	g	g
1	23,902	24,434	24,971	25,508	26,024	26,561	27,098	27,630	28,161	28,688	29,220	§	7
r	23,500	24,031	24,563	25,100	25,637	26,153	26,690	27,227	27,754	28,285	28,817	A	•
	23,474	24,006	24,543	25,079	25,596	26,133	26,669	27.201	27,733	28,260	28,791	g
	23,102	23,634	24,161	24,697	25,234	25,756	26,287	26,824	27,356	27,888	28,414	"
SCHEDULE FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER 7/2/77
SASE	1st	2nd	3rd	4th	5th	7th	10th	15th	18th
41,754	42,152	42,549	42,952	43,350	43,742	44,392	45,043	45,688	46,333
40,995	41,393	41,796	42,193	42,591	42,983	43,639	44,279	44,924	45,569
40,541	40,944	41,341	41,744	42,136	42,539	43,189	43,830	44.480	45,120
39,870	40,262	40,665	41,063	41,465	41,858	42,508	43,159	43,804	44,444
39,230	39,628	40,031	40,428	40,821	41,223	41,868	42,514	43,164	43,815
39,090	39,488	39.891	40,288	40,681	41,083	41,728	42,374	43,024	43,675
38.796	39,199	39,602	39,994	40,391	40,789	41,434	42,085	42,735	43,380
37,774	38,164	38,549	38,934	39.314	39,704	40,334	40,954	41,589	42,219
37,655	38,058	38,455	38,853	39,245	39,648	40,298	40,939	41.594	42,245
37,335	37,738	38,135	38,533	38,930	39,333	39,973	40,629	41,269	41,914
36,762	37,160	37,557	37,955	38,357	38,760	39,400	40,051	40.686	41,336
36,680	37,077	37.475	37,877	38,285	38,683	39,333	39,978	40,629	41,279
36,643	37,046	37,444	37,841	38,239	38,641	39,261	39,937	40,582	41,223
36,612	37,010	37,407	37,805	38.208	38,605	39,256	39,901	40.536	41,186
35,523	35,921	36,323	36,716	37,118	37,521	38,166	38,807	39,457	40,102
35,317	35,707	36,092	36,477	36,857	37,247	37,877	38,497	39,132	39,762
35,141	35,544	35,941	36,339	36,742	37,134	37,784	38,430	39,075	39,720
35,095	35,497	35,895	36,287	36,690	37,093	37,728	38,378	39,023	39,674
34,646	35,043	35,435	35,838	36,241	36,633	37,284	37,929	38.574	39,225
34,439	34,837	35,239	35.642	36,039	36.432	37,082	37,722	38,373	39,018
34,393	34,795	35,188	35,580	35,983	36,385	37,031	37,681	38,321	38,972
33,438	33,840	34,243	34,646	35,043	35,435	36,086	36,731	37,387	38,032
33,391	33,794	34,191	34,584	34,986	35,384	36,034	36,674	37,320	37,970
32,911	33,301	33,686	34,071	34,451	34,841	35,471	36,091	36,726	37,356
32,772	33,159	33,561	33,964	34,367	34,769	35,410	36,055	36,705	37,351
32,617	33,004	33,407	33,809	34,212	34,604	35,250	35,900	36,551	37,191
32,209	32,601	32,999	33,401	33,804	34,207	34,847	35,497	36,138	36,783
32,183	32,575	32,978	33,381	33,783	34,171	34,821	35,466	36,117	36,762
32,054	32,446	32,844	33,247	33,649	34,047	34,687	35,337	35,983	36.628
31,842	32,240	32,637	33,040	33,427	33,830	34,486	35,126	35,771	36,421
31,693	32,095	32,493	32,890	33,283	33,685	34,341	34.976	35,626	36,272
31,001	31,398	31,796	32,199	32,591	32,988	33,644	34,279	34,935	35,580
30,918	31,316	31,713	32,111	32,513	32,911	33,551	34,207	34,852	35,497
30,593	30,996	31,393	31,791	32,193	32.581	33,236	33,881	34.527	35,172
30,438	30,841	31,233	31,636	32,028	32,426	33,081	33,711	34,367	35,017
30,144	30,536	30,939	31,336	31,734	32.137	32,787	33,417	34,073	34,723
30,010	30,412	30,805	31,202	31,600	31,997	32,648	33,283	33,938	34,589
29,772	30,175	30,567	30,970	31,367	31,760	32,415	33,050	33,701	34,351
29,612	30,015	30,417	30,810	31,207	31,605	32,255	32,906	33,541	34,191
29,499	29,896	30,299	30,701	31,094	31,496	32,137	32,792	33,422	34,073
29,163	29,560	29,968	30,366	30,769	31,171	31,816	32,462	33,112	33,763
29,039	29,442	29,844	30,226	30,629	31,027	31,677	32,317	32,968	33,618
28,900	29,302	29,705	30,087	30.490	30,887	31,538	32,183	32,828	33,479
SCHEDULE FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER 7/2/77
BASE	1st	2nd	3rd	4th	Sth	7th	10th	15th	18th
28,492	28,884	29,287	29,679	30,077	30,479	31,130	31,780	32,415	33,066
28,389	28,779	29,164	29,549	29,929	30,319	30,949	31,569	32,204	32,834
28 069	28,466	28,869	29,266	29,659	30,061	30,712	31,362	31,997	32,648
27,929	28,326	28,729	29,127	29,519	29.922	30,572	31,223	31,858	32,503
27.924	28,321	28,724	29,122	29,514	29,917	30,567	31,218	31,853	32,498
27,563	27,965	28,363	28,755	29,158	29,560	30,201	30,851	31,502	32,147
27,372	27,769	28,167	28,564	28,962	29,359	30,010	30.660	31,300	31,946
27,181	27,573	27,976	28,373	28,776	29,173	29,819	30,459	31,109	31,755
27,150	27,547	27,955	28,347	28,745	29,147	29,788	30,438	31,089	31,734
26,814	27,212	27,609	28,007	28,404	28,802	29,452	30,103	30,738	31,388
26,799	27,191	27,594	27,986	28,389	28,786	29,437	30,077	30,722	31,373
26,700	27,103	27,501	27,898	28,301	28,693	29,344	29,994	30,634	31,285
26,690	27,093	27,490	27,888	28,291	28.683	29,333	29.984	30,624	31,274
26,623	27,021	27,413	27,810	28.206	28.605	29,256	29,906	30,557	31.207
26.561	26,964	27,366	27,759	28.161	28,554	29,204	29,855	30,500	31,145
26,396	26,799	27,191	27,594	27,986	28,380	29,034	29.674	30,319	30,970
26.272	26,675	27,077	27,470	27,872	28.265	28,915	29,560	30,206	30,856
26.148	26,551	26,953	27,351	27,748	28.146	28.791	29,442	30,082	30,732
26,019	26,422	26,824	27,227	27,619	28,017	28,662	29.313	29,958	30,603
26,014	25,417	26,819	27,222	27,614	28,012	28,657	29,308	29,948	30,598
25,874	26,277	26,680	27,082	27.475	27,878	28,518	29.168	29,808	30,459
25,818	26,220	26,608	27,000	27,403	27,810	28,451	29,096	29,741	30,392
25,570	25,973	26,375	26,773	27,170	27,563	28.208	28,858	29,504	30,154
25,456	25,859	26,262	26,664	27,062	27,459	28,105	28,745	29,395	30,046
25,441	25,843	26,246	26.649	27.041	27,434	28,084	28,729	29.375	30,025
25,430	25,833	26,236	26,633	27,031	27,423	28,048	28,719	29,364	30,015
25,384	25,787	26,169	26,571	26,974	27,377	28,022	28,662	29,313	29,958
25,214	25,596	25,998	26,401	26,804	27,201	27,841	28,487	29,137	29,782
25,085	25,467	25,869	26,272	26,675	27,077	27,717	28,363	29,008	29,653
24,976	25,379	25,782	26,164	26,566	26,969	27,614	28,265	28,910	29,555
24,904	25,301	25,704	26.107	26,509	26,902	27,542	.28,192	26,843	29,488
24,899	25,296	25,699	26,102	26,504	26,897	27,537	28,182	28,833	29,483
24,806	25,203	25,591	25,993	26,396	26,799	27,439	28,084	28,729	29,375
24,734	25,131	25,534	25,936	26,329	26,721	27,377	28,022	28,673	29,323
24,558	24,961	25,363	25,745	26,148	26,551	27,201	27,847	28,487	29,137
24,543	24,945	25,338	25,730	26,133	26,535	27,181	27,826	28,466	29,111
24,382	24,780	25,167	25,570	25,973	26,375	27,015	27,661	28.306	28,951
24,341	24,739	25,141	25,544	25.947	26,334	26,979	27,630	28,275	28,925
24,336	24,734	25,131	25,534	25.936	26,324	26,974	27,625	28,270	28,920
24,315	24,713	25,116	25,518	25.921	26.303	26,959	27,604	28,254	28,905
24,202	24,592	24,977	25,362	25,742	26,132	26,762	27,382	28.017	28,647
23,902	24,300	24,703	25,105	25,508	25,895	26,546	27,191	27,841	28,487
23,634	24,031	24.434	24.832	25,234	25,637	26,272	26,922	27,568	28,213
23,541	23,939	24,331	24.734	25,126	25,534	26,169	26,819	27,465	28,110
23,500	23,897	24,295	24,697	25,100	25,503	26,138	26,793	27,434	28,084
23^474	23,871	24,274	24,677	25,079	25,461	26,117	26,762	27,413	28,058
SCHEDULE FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER 7/2/77
BASE	1st	2nd	3rd	4th	5th	7th	10th	15th	18th
23,402	23,799	24,186	24,584	24,987	25,389	26,029	26,680	27,325	27,970
23,360	23,758	24,155	24,558	24,961	25,363	25,998	26,654	27,294	27,939
23,319	23,722	24,119	24,522	24,909	25,307	25,962	26,597	27,253	27,903
23,314	23,711	24,114	24,517	24,904	25,301	25,957	26,592	27,243	27,893
23,102	23,500	23,897	24,295	24,697	25,100	25,740	26,391	27,036	27,676
23,071	23,474	23,877	24,279	24,682	25,085	25,730	26,380	27,031	27,676
22,736	23,133	23.531	23,928	24,326	24,718	25,374	26,014	26,664	27,315
22,085	22,483	22,885	23,283	23,686	24,083	24,718	25,374	26,014	26,664
21,693	22,085	22,478	22,870	23,262	23,655	24,274	24,919	■ 25,549	26,179
19,112	19,447	19,798	20,134 '	20,485	20,820	21,373	21,935	22,483	23,040
18,983	19,318	19,669	20,005	20,356	20,691	21,244	21,806	22,354	22,911
APPENDIX B
EVALUATION FOR EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER 7/2/77
1• Definitions
Meritorious Rating - A meritorious rating is an overall point rating of more than 28 points with no single category rated as unacceptable.
Satisfactory Rating - A satisfactory rating is an overall point rating of between 22 and 27 points with no single category rated as unacceptable.
Unsatisfactory Rating - An unsatisfactory rating is an overall point rating of less than 22 points or an unacceptable rating in any category.
Anniversary Date - The anniversary date is based on the employees first date of permanent employment on a continuous basis in Saratoga County. As such, work performed as a provisional or temporary employee will not count toward the employee's original date of hire.
Department Head - For purposes of the evaluation system, Department Heads are those persons so designated by the Board of Supervisors as the ultimate supervisor of the employee involved, whose ratings are not subject to further review.
Days - Days shall mean all days other than Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.
2.	Procedures to be followed
A.	Insofar as possible, each employee shall be hired at the base salary for the position to be encumbered as stated in the compensation plan in effect when the employee is hired. If it is necessary to hire an employee at a salary higher than the base salary, the employee shall only be entitled to receive the remaining merit and longevity increases as provided in Article 3, Section 4 and Article 4, Section 3.
B.	Four (4) months prior to each successive date of hire of each employee covered under this appendix, the Department Head shall evaluate the employee in accordance with the form contained in Appendix C. Within ten (10) days after the aforementioned date, the Department Head shall deliver a copy of the evaluation to the employee indicating the overall rating. All ratings should be accompanied by a written documentation and must deal solely with the factors set forth on the aforementioned evaluation form.
-35-
APPENDIX C SARATOGA COUNTY PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL FORM
EMPLOYEE  TITLE 
DEPARTMENT  SALARY 
ANNIVERSARY	DATE 	EVALUATION	DATE '
RATING PERIOD	FROM  TO 
TYPE OF EVALUATION MERIT __ ANNUAL _ PROBATIONARY _
CATEGORY
ABOVE	NEEDS
SUPERIOR AVERAGE AVERAGE IMPROVEMENT UNACCEPTABLE
	*		3	I	L	0
Appraise how well employee understands job duties and responsibilities. COMMENTS-.
2. PRODUCTIVITY
	4		3		2		1		0
Evaluate the volume of work or service in relation to department Standards. COMMENTS:
3. ACCURACY
	4		3		2		1		0
Appraise overall quality of work. COMMENTS:
4. DEPENDABILITY
	4		3		2		1		0
Rate the ability to assume responsibility and carry out instructions in a reliable manner.
COMMENTS:
5. COURTESY
	4		3		2		1		0
Rate the degree of courteousness with clients, public and co-workers. COMMENTS:
6.
INITIATIVE
Rate how well the employee originates action beyond ths scope of responsibilities. COMMENTS:
7.
ATTENDANCE
	4		3		2	1		0
To what degree does the employee report for work regularly, understand and follow attendance rules.
COMMENTS:
-36-
CATEGORY
b;~punctuality
Rate punctuality for the COMMENTS:
SUPERIOR	ABOVE AVERAGE	AVERAGE	NEEDS IMPROVEMENT	UNACCEPTABLE
I4	I3	2	1	0
rating period.
9. COOPERATION/TEAMWORK
	4		3		2		1		0
Rate ability and willingness to work cooperatively with co-workers, supervisor and other agencies.
COMMENTS:
10. DECISIVENESS
Evaluate Individual's ability to make decisions and accept responsibility for them. COMMENTS:
11. COMMUNICATIONS
Evaluate ability to express self verbally and in writing, ability to follow instructions.
COMMENTS:
TOTAL PERFORMANCE RATING POINTS: 
COMPLETED BY: .	DATE: 
PERFORMANCE RATING
Meritorious	_ Satisfactory	_ Unsatisfactory
Date	Employee Signature
COMMENT • ___________________________________________________________________________
My supervisor has discussed this performance evaluation with me. in signing this report, I am only acknowledging my awareness of the comments and do not necessarily agree or disagree with the final assessment.
Date
Department'’Head Signature
COMMENT:  ________________________________________________ ■___________________________
WITNESS STATEMENT
The foregoing evaluation was discussed with ■ on 
Signature bt witness if necessary
Refer to Policy and Procedures Manual for insturctions.
Attach additional sheets of paper if needed.
Retain one copy for department records and return original to Personnel office.
-37-
APPENDIX D
POSITIONS EXCLUDED FROM THE BARGAINING UNIT
ELECTED OFFICIALSf DEPARTMENT HEADS AND MANAGERIAL POSITIONS
Clerk to Board of Supervisors
Director of Real Property Services
County Clerk
County Treasurer
Director of General Services/ Contract Administrator
County Attorney
Assistant County Attorney(s)
Deputy Commissioner Bldg. & Maint.
Employment & Training Program Director
County Historian (PT)
Director of Veterans' Service
Director of Weights & Measures
County Auditor
Director of Probation
District Attorney
1st Assistant District Attorney
Assistant District Attorney
Deputy County Clerk (2)
County Administrator
Personnel Director
Self Insurance Specialist
Assistant Public Defender(s)
Coroners (2)
Commissioner of Social
Services
Nursing Home Administrator
Medical Director(s)
Director of Planning
Commissioner of Public Works
Director/ Youth Bureau
Commissioner of Elections (2)
Deputy Commissioner of Elections (2)
Deputy County Treasurer
Executive Director of Saratoga
County Sewer District
Sheriff
Director of Emergency
Services
Director of Office for Aging
Director of Patient Services
Deputy Clerk of the Board
Management Analyst
Research Assistant to County Administrator
Personnel Associate
Personnel Safety & Health Coordinator
-38-
Coordinator LTHHC
Social Services Attorney
Director of Environmental Services
Director of Finance
Assistant Employment & Training Program Director II
Director of Social Services Deputy Director of Probation Motor Vehicle Supervisor Associate Psychiatrist Supervisor Psychologist Administrative Officer Ass’t Director of Real
Deputy Commissioner of Public Defender
(Mental Health)
Property
Solid Waste
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT HEAD
Clerk of the Board
County Auditor
County Attorney
Commissioner of Public Works Commissioner of Social Services Director of Sewer District Personnel Officer
Lead Systems Analyst
Assistant Social Services Attorney
Animal Shelter Supervisor
Deputy Commissioner of Social Services
Director of Nursing Services Ass’t Director Mental Health Associate Engineer Deputy Commissioner of Highways
Chief Sewage Treatment Plant Operator
Ass’t Director Patient Services
Recycling Coordinator
POSITIONS
TITLE
Senior Stenographer Legislative Clerk (2) Principal Account Clerk Stenographic Secretary Confidential Secretary DPW Senior Stenographer Senior Account Clerk Senior Account Clerk Senior Typist Personnel Clerk Typist Account Clerk Typist
-39-
Nursing Home Administrator
District Attorney
County Administrator
Public Defender
Senior Stenographer
Confidential Secretary
Confidential Secretary
Confidential Secretary
-40-
Side Letter Number 1
This document will serve as a side letter to the 1988-1390 contract between CSEA and Saratoga County and will explain the parties interpretation of Article XV, Section 6. The parties agree that where Saratoga County requests the . presence of any Unit official to attend labor-management meetings or other meetings as the representative of CSEA (not in capacity of ah employee of Saratoga County), then the time spent in attendance at such meetings will not be deducted pursuant to this section.
Saratoga County
CSEA
C120994asnl
-41-
Side Letter Number 2-
This document will serve as a side letter to the 1995-1999 contract between CSEA and Saratoga County and will explain that the parties mutually agree that upon implementation of a computer system to efficiently maintain the County's payroll system, the two parties will meet and discuss the following matters:
1,	The possibility of additional "authorized deductions" being taken from an employee's salary;
2.	The possibility of the County furnishing to CSEA a list of all permanent County employees including their name, address, job1 title, work address, permanent date of hire, bargaining unit status, Union membership status and gross salary, whenever requested but no more than three (3) times annually; and
3.	The possibility of having the County provide information concerning time accrual status in conjunction with the issuance of an employee's, paycheck.
Saratoga County
Dated
CSEA
Dated
-42-
Side Letter Number 3
This document will serve as a side letter to the 1991-1994 contract between CSEA and Saratoga County and will explain the parties mutually agree that the following additional changes will occur in the Saratoga County Health Plan:
Effective 1/1/91, the Saratoga County Health Plan shall be amended to provide that the following benefits shall be changed:
1.	The plan shall have a 52,000 annual co-insurance waiver provision.
2.	Psychiatric coverage under the plan will be limited to $5,000 annually.
3.	The plan will provide for hospice coverage.
4.	The lifetime maximum amount of coverage shall be increased from $250,000 to $1,000,000.
Saratoga County
Dated
-43-
Side Letter Number 4.'
This document will serve as a side letter to the 1991-1994 contract between CSEA and Saratoga County and will explain that the parties mutually agree that effective January 1, 1991, the release time procedure for a Union president to engage in Union activities will be as follows:
1.	An employee who has been elected Union president will be allowed up to a 3 hour block of time per day in order to have the ability to perform his/her Union responsibilities as delineated in Article XI/ Section 6, of the Agreement/ as. well as in the side letter to the 1988-1990 Agreement. During this period/ his/her department head may not assign that employee any functions that would come into conflict with his/her Union obligations. However/ if the employee is not engaged in Union activities during that time he/she must perform his/her regularly scheduled duties. Lastly, it is during this time frame that the Union president may engage in telephone conversations concerning his/her Union responsibilities.
2.	If during the permitted period the Union president is needed to perform his/her Union responsibilities away from his/her work station/ he/she must submit a request for release time slip to the Personnel Director. Upon receiving this request, it is the Personnel Director who makes the decision whether to grant the Union president permission to be released from his/her regular scheduled duties. If such request is granted, the Personnel Director will endeavor to notify the employee's Department Head 24 hours in advance of the release time being taken.
3.	The Personnel Director or his designee shall be responsible for administering the Union leave provisions, rights, responsibilities on behalf of the County and the employee's Department Head may in no manner interfere with the Personnel Director's decision.
4.	This side letter may be withdrawn by either party at any time after discussions of concern have taken place and remain unresolved.
Dated
Saratoga County
Dated
-44-
Side Letter Number 5
SIDE LETTER AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SARATOGA AND THE CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION, INC.
The parties also recognize and agree that the Association and the County can use the Labor Management Committee established by Article XV Section 5 of the Agreement to discuss health insurance and other insurance issues relevant to the parties. More specifically, the parties agree that, at. the request of either the Association or the County, labor management meetings can be called at least four times per year for the purpose of discussing issues or concerns that the parties have relating to health insurance plan, policies or revisions thereto.
The parties agree that if the premium applicable to ■ the POS health insurance option exceed the premiums for the County's indemnification health insurance plan, the parties will meet in joint session(s) to discuss and resolve such issue. ]?O& THE COUNTY OF SARATOGA

FOR THE CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION
-45-
Side Letter Number 6
SIDE LETTER AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SARATOGA AND THE CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION, INC.
This Side Letter Agreement will confirm that the County will continue its practice of paying employees the appropriate shift differential pursuant to Article VI, Section 3 of the Agreement, for anytime employees work into the afternoon (3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.) or night (11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.) shift. For example, an employee who normally works the day shift (7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.) who works one (1) hour into the afternoon shift will be paid the 3 1/2% shift differential for the one hour work into the afternoon shift.
FOR THE COUNTY OF SARATOGA:
Dated:	_________________
FOR THE CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES'
Dated:
F:\RGFLATTORNEYUEG\agSideLetterSaratoga.wpd
-46-
S ide Letter Number 7
SIDE LETTER AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SARATOGA AND THE CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION, INC
This Side Letter Agreement will confirm the parties understanding with respect to the approval and/or cancellation of vacation requests at the Health Related Facility and County Infirmary# The parties recognize that the approval of vacation requests are contingent upon nursing and staffing coverage. Moreover, the parties recognize that vacation requests which are initially approved may be subsequently canceled if the County determines that patient needs require such cancellation.
This side Letter Agreement is meant to supplement the provisions set forth in Article IX of the Agreement; it is not meant to contradict or substitute the provisions therein.
FOR THE COUNTY:	FOR THE ASSOCIATION:

-47-