Agreement Number: A154693
Agreement Between
HENNEPIN COUNTY
and the
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES
AFSCME Council 5, Local #2822, Clerical Unit
January 1, 2016- December 31, 2018
NN
Note: New language is bold/italic and/or shaded. Please exercise care in administering such new language. Contact your Labor Relations Representative at 612-348-5010 with any questions.
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Table of Contents
ARTICLE 1	- PREAMBLE...............................................................5
ARTICLE 2	- RECOGNITION ...........................................................5
ARTICLE 3	- DEFINITIONS............................................................6
ARTICLE 4	- UNION SECURITY.........................................................7
ARTICLE 5	- EMPLOYER AUTHORITY.....................................................8
ARTICLE 6	- SENIORITY .............................................................8
ARTICLE 7	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ..................................................10
ARTICLE 8	- NO STRIKE-NO LOCKOUT .................................................12
ARTICLE 9	- WORK SCHEDULES/PREMIUM PAY ...........................................12
ARTICLE 10	- HOLIDAYS .............................................................15
ARTICLE 11A - VACATIONS ...........................................................15
ARTICLE 11B - PAID TIME OFF (PTO).................................................16
ARTICLE 12A - SICK LEAVE .........................................................18
ARTICLE 12B - SICK LEAVE .........................................................19
ARTICLE 13	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE ...................................................20
ARTICLE 14	- ABSENCE WITHOUT LEAVE................................................21
ARTICLE 15	- LEAVE BENEFITS AND WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS ...................21
ARTICLE 16	- FUNERAL LEAVE .......................................................21
ARTICLE 17	- MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY ...............................21
ARTICLE 18	- MILITARY RESERVE TRAINING ...........................................22
ARTICLE 19	- COURT DUTY...........................................................22
ARTICLE 20	- ELECTION DAYS........................................................22
ARTICLE 21	- TIME OFF FOR TESTING ................................................22
ARTICLE 22	- INSURANCE ...........................................................22
ARTICLE 23	- SEVERANCE PAY........................................................28
ARTICLE 24	- STABILITY ADJUSTMENTS................................................28
ARTICLE 25	- PART-TIME / LIMITED DURATION EMPLOYEES...............................29
ARTICLE 26	- WORK UNIT VACANCIES .................................................29
ARTICLE 27	- WORK RULES ..........................................................30
ARTICLE 28	- PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS .............................................30
ARTICLE 29	- EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE ..............................................30
ARTICLE 30	- FITNESS FOR DUTY.....................................................30
ARTICLE 31	- MEET AND CONFER......................................................31
ARTICLE 32	- DISCIPLINE ..........................................................31
ARTICLE 33	- EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE..................................................32
ARTICLE 34	- NON-DISCRIMINATION ..................................................32
ARTICLE 35	- SCOPE OF AGREEMENT ..................................................32
ARTICLE 36	- SAVINGS CLAUSE.......................................................33
ARTICLE 37	- SPECIAL LEAVE WITHOUT PAY............................................33
ARTICLE 38	- SALARY RATES.........................................................33
ARTICLE 39	- AUTOMOBILE TRAVEL EXPENSES ..........................................35
ARTICLE 40	- RIGHT OF CONTRACTING SERVICES........................................35
ARTICLE 41	- HEALTH AND SAFETY....................................................36
ARTICLE 42	- TRAINEES ............................................................36
ARTICLE 43	- SHERIFF’S CIVILIAN UNIFORM ..........................................36
ARTICLE 44	- EFFECTIVE DATES......................................................37
ARTICLE 45	- TERM OF AGREEMENT ...................................................37
ATTACHMENT A	- Hennepin County Map..............................................38
ATTACHMENT B		39
ATTACHMENT C	40
ATTACHMENT D	41
Letter of Understanding Regarding Legislative Transfer of Position................42
Letter of Understanding Classification Study .....................................43
Clarification of Health Insurance Article ........................................44
Transfer to Another Jurisdiction Letter............................................45
Clarification of Seniority Letter..................................................46
Memorandum Of Understanding - Military Reservists Benefits .......................47
Depletion of Leave Hour Balances ..................................................49
3 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Board Action Request ( 09-0380 ) ........................................................50
RESOLUTION NO. 09-0380 ..................................................................51
Board Action Request ( 09-0339 ) ........................................................52
RESOLUTION NO. 09-0339 ..................................................................54
Wage Steps & Health Insurance Plan Design ...............................................55
Employees Time Off to Vote...............................................................56
Consensus Model Based Insurance Proposal and LMHCC Structure.............................57
Index....................................................................................59
4 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
ARTICLE 1	- PREAMBLE
This AGREEMENT, hereinafter referred to as the AGREEMENT, is entered into between the County of Hennepin, hereinafter called the EMPLOYER, and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council No. 5 and its affiliated locals as identified in the Article herein titled "Recognition," hereinafter called the UNION. The purpose of the AGREEMENT is to fulfill the mutual desire of the EMPLOYER and the UNION to encourage and promote a culture of dignity and respect between the parties and a mutually satisfactory relationship with respect to the terms and conditions of employment in the county. The EMPLOYER and the UNION recognize that it is in the best interest of both parties that all dealings between them be characterized by mutual responsibility and respectful treatment. The parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE 2	- RECOGNITION
Section 1.	The EMPLOYER recognizes the UNION as the exclusive representative for the following unit of Hennepin County employees under the Minnesota Public Employment Labor Relations Act (M.S. 179A.01-179A.25).
A. Clerical Unit (AFSCME Council No. 5, Local 2822). Employees in all clerical and related classifications in Hennepin County in the classifications of:
Account Clerk, Principal
Clerk
Credit/Collections Representative
IT Assistant Operations Analyst
Legal Secretary
Librarian, Associate
MHP Services Representative
Office Specialist I
Office Specialist II
Office Specialist III
Office Specialist, Principal
Production Publishing Operator
Production Publishing Operator, Principal
Production Publishing Operator, Senior
Public Safety Records Clerk
Public Service Assistant
Real Estate and Tax Specialist I
Real Estate and Tax Specialist II
Real Estate and Tax Specialist III
Service Center Representative
Service Center Representative, Senior
Sheriffs Records Coordinator
whose employment is fourteen (14) hours or more per week and more than sixty-seven (67) work days per year, excluding supervisory, confidential and those employees covered by the Charitable Hospitals Act.
Section 2.	The UNION recognizes the Labor Relations Representative designated by the Labor Relations Director, as the representative of the EMPLOYER and shall meet and negotiate exclusively with such representative, except as may be otherwise specifically provided in this AGREEMENT. No agreement establishing terms and conditions of employment or other matters made between the UNION and the EMPLOYER shall be binding upon the EMPLOYER unless the signature of the EMPLOYER's designated Labor Relations Representative is affixed thereon.
Section 3.	The EMPLOYER, in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota Statute 179A.06, subd. 1, agrees not to enter into any agreements establishing terms and conditions of employment with members of the bargaining unit under jurisdiction of this AGREEMENT either individually or collectively which in any way conflict with the terms and conditions set forth in this AGREEMENT, except through the certified representative.
5 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 4.	Disputes which may occur between the EMPLOYER and the UNION over the inclusion or exclusion of job classes, with respect to the bargaining unit identified in Section 1 of this Article, may be referred to the Bureau of Mediation Services (herein after BMS) for determination in accordance with applicable statutory provisions. Determination by the BMS shall be subject to such review and determination as provided by statute and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Section 5.	If the EMPLOYER establishes new job classes within the bargaining unit identified in Section 1 of this Article, both parties agree to negotiate on wages. However, it is understood that all other terms and conditions of this AGREEMENT will apply.
ARTICLE 3	- DEFINITIONS
The following terms used in this AGREEMENT shall be defined as follows:
A.	BASE PAY RATE: The employee's basic hourly rate exclusive of overtime premium, shift premium, stability or any other special allowances.
B.	CLASS: One or more positions sufficiently similar with respect to duties and responsibilities that the same descriptive title can be used with clarity to designate each position; that similar general qualifications are needed for the performance of duties; that comparable selection procedures may be used to recruit employees, and that the same schedule of compensation can be applied to all positions.
C.	COMPENSATED PAYROLL STATUS: Receipt of cash payment for scheduled time worked or for time on approved
compensated leave.
D.	CURRENT: Shall mean the present time period as designated such as hour, day, month, year.
E.	DAYS: Unless otherwise indicated, means calendar days.
F.	DEMOTION: A change from a position in one work classification to a position in another work classification with less
responsible duties and a lower salary range maximum.
G.	DEPARTMENT: The term department(s) as referenced in this AGREEMENT shall be those established by the
EMPLOYER in its organizational structure. For reference purposes, a current description of such department(s) is included in Attachment B.
H.	EMERGENCY: An unforeseen crisis situation or condition so defined by the EMPLOYER.
I.	EMPLOYEE: A member of the exclusively recognized bargaining unit as identified in the Article herein titled
"Recognition," who has been employed on the basis of regular appointment to a continuing position.
J.	EMPLOYER: County of Hennepin or its designated representative(s).
K.	FULL MONTH OF SERVICE: An average 173.33 compensated hours.
L.	LAYOFF: Separation from service with the EMPLOYER necessitated by lack of work, lack of funds or other reasons
without reference to incompetence, misconduct or other behavioral considerations. When such separation is due to emergency circumstances, only a separation in excess of fifteen (15) calendar days shall be considered a layoff.
M.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE: An approved absence from work duty during a scheduled work period with or without compensation.
N.	LIMITED DURATION EMPLOYEE: Limited duration employees include the following three categories of nonregular employees: (a) non-regular employees who are hired for six (6) months or less; (b) an employee appointed to a non-regular position that is expected to last for more than six (6) months but less than two (2) years; or (c) nonregular employees whose work schedule is intermittent, non-continuous or irregular in nature regardless of the anticipated duration of the appointment.
O.	PART TIME: An individual so designated by the EMPLOYER whose normal work schedule consists of fewer hours than the full-time schedule.
P.	PROBATIONARY PERIOD: Probationary periods are as follows:
(1)	Newly Employed: The first six (6) calendar months of service of newly hired, rehired or reinstated employees. (The probationary period for reinstated employees may be modified or waived at the discretion of the EMPLOYER, provided such modification or waiver is stated in writing.) For Sheriffs Records Coordinator the probation period is twelve (12) months for hires, rehires, and transfers from a different department and six (6) months for promotional/transfer within the department.
(2)	Promotional and Transfer: The first six (6) calendar months of compensated regular hours of service following a promotional appointment or a transfer.
Q.	PROMOTION: A change of an employee from a position in one work classification to a position in another work classification with a higher salary range maximum.
6 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
R.	REGULAR EMPLOYEE: A member of the exclusively recognized bargaining unit identified in the Article herein
titled "Recognition" who has completed the required probationary period for newly employed, re-employed or reinstated employees, who has been employed on the basis of regular appointment to a continuing position.
S.	REGULAR HOURS: Time on compensated payroll status exclusive of overtime hours and exclusive of on-call hours.
T.	REINSTATEMENT: Re-employment of a former regular or probationary employee in a work classification to which
he/she was assigned prior to termination.
U.	STEWARD: An employee designated by the UNION for the purposes of communicating with the EMPLOYER on
matters of interest to either party.
V.	TERMINATION IN GOOD STANDING: Any termination other than dismissal for disciplinary reasons and for which
terminating employee has given the required minimum notice in advance of leaving.
ARTICLE 4	- UNION SECURITY
Section 1.	In recognition of the UNION as the exclusive representative:
A.	The EMPLOYER shall once each payroll period deduct an amount sufficient to provide the payment of regular dues established by the UNION from the wages of all employees authorizing, in writing, such deduction on a form designated and furnished for such purpose by the UNION. Only the duly certified exclusive representative shall be granted payroll deduction of dues for employees covered by this AGREEMENT.
B.	The EMPLOYER shall remit such deductions each payroll period to the appropriate designated officer of the UNION with a list of the names of the employees from whose wages deductions were made.
C.	The UNION shall certify to the EMPLOYER, in writing, the current amount of regular dues to be withheld each payroll period and any fair share assessments authorized by law.
D.	Such dues deductions shall be cancelled by the EMPLOYER upon written request by the employee.
E.	The EMPLOYER will provide to the UNION the add/drop report each pay period and the quarterly report
electronically at no charge (monthly data is available on the quarterly reports). The EMPLOYER will charge the UNION $25.00 for production of an electroinc report request that varies from this schedule.
Section 2.	The UNION agrees to indemnify and hold the EMPLOYER harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders or judgments brought or issued against the EMPLOYER as a result of any action taken or not taken under the provisions of this Article.
Section 3. The UNION may designate certain employees from the bargaining unit to act as stewards and shall, within thirty (30) days of the execution of this AGREEMENT and upon occurrence of any change thereafter, certify to the EMPLOYER a current list of business representatives, officers and stewards who are authorized by the UNION to investigate and present grievances to the EMPLOYER. The EMPLOYER agrees to recognize such representatives for the purpose of investigating and presenting grievances to the EMPLOYER subject to the following stipulations:
A.	There shall be not more than thirty-five (35) bargaining unit employees designated as stewards, subject to alteration upon mutual agreement between the UNION and the EMPLOYER.
B.	Not more than one employee representative (steward or officer) will be authorized time off with pay to investigate or present any one grievance matter to the EMPLOYER. Nothing in this clause is intended to limit the number of union stewards who may request to use their own time (vacation, compensatory, or time without pay) to investigate and present grievances.
C.	Bargaining unit employee stewards and officers may leave their work stations with the concurrence of their designated supervisor(s), and they shall notify their designated supervisor(s) upon return to their work stations. Concurrence of the supervisor to leave a work station for UNION business will be limited to the investigation and presentation of grievances to the EMPLOYER.
D.	Employee representatives of the UNION shall receive paid time off to participate in joint labor-management committee meetings and meet and confer sessions with the EMPLOYER. Time off with pay under this subsection shall be limited to those activities specifically initiated and/or approved by the EMPLOYER and occurring during the employee's regularly scheduled work time.
E.	The EMPLOYER shall make reasonable adjustments to the workloads of employee representatives of the UNION who receive paid time off for UNION related activities under the provisions of subsections B, C, and D above. Such adjustments shall be made only for those employees who perform these activities on a regular, ongoing basis.
7 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 4.	Non-employee business representatives of the UNION as previously designated to the EMPLOYER as provided herein may, with concurrence of the EMPLOYER, come on the premises of the EMPLOYER for the purpose of investigating and presenting grievances.
Section 5.	The UNION agrees there shall be no solicitation for membership, signing up of members, collection of initiation fees, dues, fines or assessments, meetings or other union activities on the EMPLOYER's time.
Section 6.	The UNION may use the EMPLOYER's facilities for union business with prior approval of the EMPLOYER.
The UNION shall have access to the EMPLOYER’s internal mail distribution system and electronic (e-mail) system consistent with the practice existing on the effective date of this AGREEMENT. However, the UNION agrees to request prior authorization from the EMPLOYER’s Labor Relations Department prior to use of the e-mail system for any mass communication.
Section 7.	The EMPLOYER agrees to allow the UNION to use designated bulletin boards for the purpose of posting notices of union meetings, union elections, union election returns, union appointments to office, union recreational and social affairs, arbitration awards, decisions of the BMS and the courts, and other items specifically approved by the EMPLOYER. It is agreed that items which reflect negatively on the UNION, employees, or the County shall not be posted. All posted materials must be union publications or legibly signed by an authorized union representative.
Section 8.	Employees have the right to join or to refrain from joining the UNION. Neither the EMPLOYER nor the UNION shall discriminate against or interfere with the rights of employees to become or not to become members of the UNION and further, there shall be no discrimination or coercion against any employee because of union membership or nonmembership. The UNION shall, in its responsibility as exclusive representative of the employees, represent all employees without discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion.
Section 9.	Nothing in this AGREEMENT shall be construed to affect the status of veterans in contravention of existing veterans preference laws relating to the employment, discharge or promotion of veterans.
Section 10.	The EMPLOYER shall give all new bargaining unit employees, at the time of new employee orientation, a copy of this AGREEMENT, which is to be provided by the UNION.
Section 11	The EMPLOYER shall provide the UNION with a report each payroll period which shall identify new hires by name, job class and bargaining unit.
Further, the EMPLOYER shall refer newly hired AFSCME employees who attend the EMPLOYER’s New Employee Orientation program to a UNION orientation session which shall follow the EMPLOYER’s orientation session, be limited to thirty (30) minutes in length and held in the same room as the EMPLOYER’s New Employee Orientation.
ARTICLE 5	- EMPLOYER AUTHORITY
The UNION recognizes the right of the EMPLOYER to operate and manage its affairs in all respects in accordance with applicable laws and regulations of appropriate authorities. All rights and authority which the EMPLOYER has not officially abridged, delegated or modified by this AGREEMENT are retained by the EMPLOYER.
ARTICLE 6	- SENIORITY
Section 1.	Seniority is an employee's length of service for the EMPLOYER from the most recent date of employment, re-employment or reinstatement.
A.	Seniority is not interrupted during the period an employee is on approved leave, including leave for union business or layoff, if the employee returns to active work status having complied with all the terms and conditions of this AGREEMENT and the conditions the EMPLOYER established in approving the leave.
B.	If in the event of layoff or recall from layoff two or more employees possess the same seniority date, seniority in such cases shall be in order of the date of acquisition of regular status in the class from which layoff is to occur or has occurred. If the tie cannot be broken by this method, seniority shall be determined by the last four digits of the
8 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
employee's Social Security Number, with the employee having the highest such number being the more senior.
C.	Seniority in work classes covered by this AGREEMENT shall be retained and continue to accrue during the probationary period if an employee leaves a unit covered by this AGREEMENT for another position with the EMPLOYER because of promotion, demotion or transfer.
D.	An employee appointed to a regular position in the same job class and department as he/she was employed as a limited duration employee (except for an employee whose work schedule is intermittent, non-continuous or irregular in nature) shall have seniority for purposes of layoff and recall from the employee's most recent date of hire as a limited duration employee, provided such limited duration and regular appointments are contiguous and sequential.
Section 2.	Seniority rights under this AGREEMENT shall terminate under the following conditions:
A.	Termination of employment.
B.	Layoff in excess of a period equal to an employee's length of employment but not more than three years.
C.	Failure to return to work in accordance with the terms and conditions of an approved leave of absence.
Section 3.	Seniority lists shall contain the names of bargaining unit employees by class arranged in order of most to least senior.
A.	Upon request of the UNION, but not more often than once each calendar year, the EMPLOYER shall establish a seniority list for the designated class(es) and unit. A seniority list shall also be established for affected class(es) within the unit at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the effective date of a layoff. A copy of seniority lists when established shall be furnished to the UNION's designated representative.
B.	Employees and the UNION shall be obligated to notify the EMPLOYER by certified mail of any error in the seniority list within thirty (30) days of the date the seniority list is furnished to the UNION's designated representative. Within thirty (30) days of notification of errors, the EMPLOYER shall correct errors in the seniority list and furnish the corrected list to the UNION's designated representative. If no error is reported within thirty (30) days after the date the seniority list is furnished or within thirty (30) days after the date a correction in such list is furnished to the UNION's designated representative, the list will stand correct as posted.
Section 4.	Except in those instances where senior employees are not qualified to perform remaining work duties, seniority shall determine the order of:
A.	Layoff which shall be in inverse order of seniority within each work classification and department (except as otherwise provided in Attachment B), provided that any employee who is to be laid off and has previously served in a lower work classification covered by this AGREEMENT may request to exercise seniority rights in such lower classification or its designated equivalent.
B.	Recall from layoff which shall be in order of seniority within each work classification and department (except as otherwise provided in Attachment B), provided that if an employee does not return to work upon recall, as directed by the EMPLOYER or on an extended date mutually acceptable to the employee and EMPLOYER, he/she shall automatically have terminated his/her employment.
C.	If a senior employee requests exercise of seniority rights over a less senior employee for purposes of layoff, the senior employee, as a condition of the EMPLOYER granting such a request, must accept the work schedule (days of week, work shift, and number of hours per shift) and work location of the least senior employee. The senior employee, as an alternative to replacing the least senior employee in the department (except as otherwise provided in Attachment B) may, if such least senior employee's work location is outside the senior employee's geographical work area, request exercise of seniority rights over the least senior employee in the senior employee's geographical work area. Geographical work areas for the purposes of this section shall be as contained in Attachment A. In situations when more than one (1) employee in a job class is simultaneously requesting to exercise seniority rights to positions in the same lower job class, the EMPLOYER will make reasonable efforts to match scheduled hours by seniority.
Section 5.	The EMPLOYER shall issue written notice of layoff or recall from layoff to affected employees at least ten (10) calendar days in advance of the effective date. Such notice shall be made by certified mail to the employee's last known address as shown by the EMPLOYER's records except when the employees are present at the work site to receive notice.
9 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 6.	Assignment of employees to designated departments shall be at the discretion of the EMPLOYER. When it is necessary for the EMPLOYER to assign/re-assign an employee to a different work assignment, the EMPLOYER will provide such employee with two (2) weeks advance notice when practicable.
Section 7.	The UNION will reimburse the EMPLOYER the expense of furnishing seniority lists required by this AGREEMENT in an amount equal to $25.00 per list or $.05 per employee on each list, whichever is greater, up to a maximum of $50.00. When more than one copy of the list is requested or required by this AGREEMENT, the UNION shall reimburse the EMPLOYER for such copies at the rate $.20 per page.
Section 8.	The above provisions shall not apply to the seniority list established by the EMPLOYER and provided to the UNION prior to the effective date of a layoff as provided in Section 3A herein.
Section 9. Employees on layoff will be recalled to fill vacancies in other classes and departments for which qualified, provided they may not exercise seniority rights to create such vacancies. Such employees may waive the recall if the salary rate offered by the EMPLOYER for the position to which recalled is more than twenty (20%) percent below the salary rate of the employee when laid off. The name of an employee so recalled will remain on the layoff list for the class from which laid off, subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in this AGREEMENT.
The parties agree to provide employees who are laid off and in the “Alternative Placement Process” the opportunity to state their preference when there is more than one placement opportunity available to them. (The County would be obligated to take the employees preference into consideration but would not be required to grant the employees preference).
The parties agree that if there are alternative placement opportunities available and placement is not accomplished within 2 weeks of the layoff notice, the UNION may appeal the matter to the County Ombudsperson. If placement is not accomplished within 3 weeks of the layoff notice, and if there is an alternative placement opportunity available, the employee will be compensated at the rate of the available position subject to offset by any County derived earnings (i.e. temporary or intermittent wages, or Reemployment Insurance).
ARTICLE 7	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1.	A grievance shall be defined as a dispute or disagreement raised by an employee against the EMPLOYER involving the interpretation or application of the specific provisions of this AGREEMENT.
Section 2. It is specifically understood that any matters governed by statutory provisions, County Human Resources Rules, or departmental personnel rules, except as expressly provided for in this AGREEMENT, shall not be considered grievances under this AGREEMENT. If by law an appeal procedure, other than the grievance procedure contained herein, is available for resolution of a dispute arising from any provision covered by this AGREEMENT and the aggrieved party pursues the dispute through such appeal procedure provided by law, the aggrieved employee(s) shall be precluded from making an appeal under this grievance procedure.
Except that with respect to statutes under the jurisdiction of the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or Minn. Stat. §§ 363.01 - .20, an employee pursuing a statutory remedy is not precluded from also pursuing an appeal under this grievance procedure.
Section 3.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE: Grievances, as herein defined, shall be processed in the following manner:
Step 1: INFORMAL. An employee claiming a violation concerning the interpretation or application of the express provisions of this AGREEMENT shall:
A.	Within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the first occurrence of the event giving rise to the grievance, present such grievance, with or without the union representative, to his/her supervisor who is designated as appropriate for this purpose by the EMPLOYER.
B.	The supervisor shall give his/her oral or written answer within fourteen (14) calendar days after such presentation to the employee and his/her steward.
10 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Step 2: FORMAL. If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved in Step 1 and the UNION wishes to appeal the grievance to Step 2 of the grievance procedure, it shall be referred, in writing, to the Department Head or his/her designated representative and to the Labor Relations Director or his/her designee within fourteen (14) calendar days after the designated supervisor's answer as provided for in Section 3, Step 1-B. The grievance appeal shall be initiated by means of a written grievance to be signed by the employee and the union representative. The written grievance shall set forth the nature of the grievance, the facts on which it is based, the provisions of the AGREEMENT allegedly violated, and the relief requested. The Department Head and/or his/her designated representative shall discuss the grievance with the UNION within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date presented at a time agreeable to the parties. If the grievance is resolved as a result of such a meeting, the settlement shall be reduced to writing and signed by the Department Head or his/her designated representative and the union representative. If no settlement is reached, the Department Head or his/her designated representative shall give written answer to the union representative within fourteen (14) calendar days following their meeting.
Step 3: MEDIATION. If the grievance is not settled in accordance with the procedure set forth in Step 1 or Step 2, it may be submitted to mediation provided that the UNION and the Labor Relations Director or his/her designee, by mutual agreement, jointly petition the Minnesota BMS for assistance in resolving the grievance within ten (10) working days after the employee and UNION’s receipt of the EMPLOYER’s written answer in Step 2. The parties shall have thirty (30) calendar days in which to resolve the grievance through mediation.
Section 4.	ARBITRATION - If the grievance is not settled in accordance with the foregoing procedure, the UNION may refer the grievance to arbitration within fourteen (14) calendar days after the employee and UNION's receipt of the EMPLOYER's written answer in Step 2. The parties shall mutually agree upon an arbitrator. If the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator, the selection of an arbitrator shall be made in accordance with the "Rules Governing the Arbitration of Grievances" as established by the Public Employment Relations Act and administered by the State of Minnesota BMS. The arbitrator shall hear the grievance at a scheduled meeting subject to the availability of the EMPLOYER and the union representatives. The arbitrator shall notify the union representative and the EMPLOYER of his/her decision within thirty (30) calendar days following the close of the hearing or submission of briefs by the parties, whichever is later, unless the parties agree to an extension thereof. The fees and expenses for the arbitrator's services and proceedings shall be borne equally by the EMPLOYER and the UNION, provided that each party shall be responsible for compensating its own representatives and witnesses. Employees who serve as such representatives or witnesses shall not be compensated at a rate in excess of their base pay rate. If either party desires a verbatim record of the proceedings, it may cause such a record to be made, provided it pays for the record. If both parties desire a verbatim record of the proceedings, the cost shall be shared equally. The arbitrator shall not have the right to amend, modify, nullify, ignore, add to, or subtract from the provisions of this AGREEMENT. The arbitrator shall consider and decide only the specific issue(s) submitted, in writing, by the EMPLOYER and the UNION, and shall have no authority to make a decision on any other issue(s) not so submitted. The arbitrator shall be without power to make decisions contrary to or inconsistent with or modifying or varying in any way the application of laws, rules or regulations having the force and effect of law. The decision shall be based solely upon the arbitrator's interpretation or application of the express terms of this AGREEMENT and on the facts of the grievance presented. If the arbitrator determines that the grievance is covered by law or statute, or not covered by the express provisions of this AGREEMENT, the arbitrator shall refer the grievance back to the parties without decision or recommendation. The parties may, by written agreement, agree to submit more than one grievance to the arbitrator provided that each grievance will be considered as a separate issue and each on its own merits.
Section 5.	If a grievance is not presented within the time limits set forth above, it shall be considered waived. If a grievance is not appealed to the next step within the specified time limit or any agreed extension thereof, it shall be considered settled on the basis of the EMPLOYER's last answer. If the EMPLOYER does not answer a grievance or an appeal thereof within the specified time limits, the employee/UNION may elect to treat the grievance as denied at that step. The UNION may then immediately appeal the grievance to the next step. The time limit in each step may be extended by mutual written agreement of the EMPLOYER and UNION representatives involved in each step.
Section 6.	Employees serving an initial probationary period shall have right of appeal only through Step 2 of this grievance procedure except for a grievance alleging an error in salary or benefits due.
Section 7.	Limited duration employees (except for an employee whose work schedule is intermittent, non-continuous or irregular in nature) and employees serving in the unclassified service shall have right of appeal only through Step 2 of this grievance procedure, provided employees of the Law Library shall also have right of appeal to the arbitration step of this grievance procedure.
11 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 8.	a regular employee serving a promotional probationary period shall have right of appeal under this grievance procedure provided that such employee shall not have right to appeal beyond Step 2 of this grievance procedure, a demotion to his/her previous classification upon failure to satisfactorily complete the required promotional probationary period. When feasible, a demoted employee shall be returned to the geographical area from which originally promoted.
Section 9.	The grievant shall not suffer loss of regular pay while the grievant's presence is necessary at a grievance presentation meeting with the EMPLOYER or an arbitrator, except where such grievance presentation meeting or arbitration hearing occurs during the period the grievant has been removed from his/her job for disciplinary reasons. The time spent by the grievant in an arbitration hearing shall not be counted as time worked for overtime eligibility.
ARTICLE 8	- NO STRIKE-NO LOCKOUT
Section 1.	In recognition of the provisions included in this AGREEMENT for a grievance procedure to be used for resolution of disputes, the UNION agrees that neither the UNION, its officers or agents, nor any of the employees covered by this AGREEMENT will engage in, encourage, sanction, support or suggest any strikes, slow downs, mass absenteeism, mass use of sick leave, the willful absence from one's position, the stoppage of work or the abstinence in whole or in part of the full, faithful and proper performance of the duties of employment. Any violation of any provisions of this Article may be cause for disciplinary action including discharge.
Section 2.	No lockout shall be instituted by the EMPLOYER during the life of this AGREEMENT provided Section 1 of this Article is not violated by employees or the UNION.
ARTICLE 9	- WORK SCHEDULES/PREMIUM PAY
Section 1.	This Article is intended only to define the normal hours of work and to provide the basis for the calculation of premium pay, if any. Nothing herein shall be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week.
Section 2.	A payroll period shall be an averaged eighty (80) hours of work within a fourteen (14) calendar day period, except as may otherwise be defined in this AGREEMENT.
Section 3.	Work shifts, work breaks, staffing schedules and the assignment of employees thereto, shall be established by the EMPLOYER.
A.	Where staffing schedules are routinely subject to change, a staffing schedule showing the regular work days and work hours of all employees shall normally be prepared and posted at least fourteen (14) calendar days in advance of their effective date. Such staffing schedules, once posted, will only be modified when necessitated by unscheduled employee absences and unscheduled changes in work load. A temporary change in the staffing schedule of a part-time or limited duration employee is not a staffing schedule change for purposes of this Article. Employees may mutually agree to exchange days, shifts or hours of work with the approval of their supervisor provided such change does not result in the payment of overtime.
B.	If changes concerning length and/or start and end of shifts for a work unit are to be made in existing full-time shifts, the EMPLOYER shall notify the UNION in advance of implementing the proposed changes and will provide the UNION the opportunity to meet and confer with respect to the proposed changes and their effect on employees. Such meet and confer sessions shall be conducted prior to the implementation of the change, except where an emergency or other unpredictable condition makes this impractical.
C.	Employees shall normally be granted an unpaid lunch break and two (2) fifteen (15) minute relief periods during each full work shift of eight hours or more at times designated by the EMPLOYER. In some situations work demands may on occasion preclude the granting of an uninterrupted lunch break or relief period.
Section 4. Worked hours in excess of forty (40) hours per work week shall be overtime and compensated at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the employee's base pay rate or one and one-half (1 1/2) hours compensatory time for each hour worked, subject to the provision that no employee shall be eligible for overtime premium unless prior approval of the overtime work was granted by the employee's immediate supervisor or his/her designee. Overtime premium shall be provided in the form of either cash payment or compensatory time as determined appropriate by the EMPLOYER, provided employees shall have the right to indicate their preference to the EMPLOYER.
12 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 5.	Employees shall be available for overtime work, holidays and night shifts when assigned to such unless excused by the EMPLOYER.
Section 6.	Unless specifically provided in another section of this Article, the base pay rate or premium compensation shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked under any provisions of this AGREEMENT.
Section 7. For the Sheriff’s office only, a shift differential of $.95 per hour in 2016 and $1.00 per hour in 2017 shall be paid to all employees who work on an assigned shift where at least four (4) hours of the shift occur between 5 p.m. and 7 a.m. Such shift differential shall be paid in addition to other forms of premium compensation for which the employee qualifies. Employees of the Department shall be subject to the same eligibility criteria for shift differential as applies to the majority of employees in their work unit. This shall include circumstances in which overtime subsequently results in extending an employee’s hours beyond their original assigned shift and shift differential shall be paid along with any other applicable forms of premium compensation.
For all other departments, the shift differential shall be paid to all employees who work on an assigned shift where at least five (5) hours of the shift occur between 5p.m. and 7 a.m.
Section 8.	Employees called to the work site by the EMPLOYER shall be paid for hours actually worked at their base pay rate but not less than three (3) hours. Such payment shall be either in cash or compensatory time off as determined by the EMPLOYER.
Section 9.	Should the EMPLOYER intend to institute alternate work schedules (i.e. 10 hour shifts), flex time, job sharing or work tasking, it shall first meet and confer on any of the above-mentioned items with the UNION.
Section 10.	When an employee is expressly assigned to perform the duties of a position allocated to a different classification that is temporarily unoccupied, and such assignment is for forty (40) or more continuous regular hours, the employee shall be paid for all such hours at the employee's current salary rate when assigned to work in a lower or equal class or at a rate within a higher range which is equal to the minimum rate for the higher class or one (1) step higher than the employee's current salary, whichever is greater. In order to qualify for such higher rate, the employee must perform that work which distinguishes the higher classification from the employee's regular class in terms of level of responsibility, types of duties, and/or quality and quantity. Rotation of employees through a position in a higher class for the purpose of avoiding payment of out of class pay is a violation of the intent of the out of class pay agreement.
Section 11.	Work shifts shall be considered part of the day and date on which they begin provided that in the Sheriff's Department and the Information Technology Department a work shift shall belong to the day on which the majority of the hours worked occur.
Section 12.	In 2016, a weekend differential of $.90per hour will be paid to all employees required to work on any shift(s) that starts on either Saturday or Sunday. In 2017, the shift differential will be $1.00 per hour.
Rather than being paid the weekend differential based on a work shift that starts on either Saturday or Sunday, Computer Operators in the Information Technology Department shall be paid the differential for all hours worked between 12 midnight Friday and 12 midnight Sunday.
Such weekend differential shall be paid in addition to other forms of premium compensation for which the employee qualifies.
Section 13.	Approved vacation hours shall count as hours worked for purposes of computing overtime.
Section 14.	In the Sheriff's Department, overtime shall be distributed as equally as practicable.
Section 15.	Employees who are specifically required or authorized by the EMPLOYER to use foreign or sign language skills shall be compensated for such work according to the following terms and conditions:
13 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
A.	Full-time employees who are regularly required to use foreign language or sign language skills in addition to other job duties shall receive a salary differential of $47.50 per payroll period. This differential shall be pro-rated on the basis of scheduled hours for part-time employees. This differential will be in effect for all compensated hours including compensated leaves.
B.	Employees who provide foreign language or sign language skills on an occasional or irregular basis at the request of the EMPLOYER shall receive $9.50 in addition to their regular salaries for any work day on which such services are performed. This additional compensation shall not exceed $47.50 for any one payroll period.
Section 16. Employees in the job class of Senior Service Center Representative who are expressly designated to direct the operations of a Service Center in the absence of a Public Service Unit Supervisor (Service Center Supervisor) shall receive a differential of $.95 per hour in 2016, and $1.00 per hour in 2017.
In 2016, employees in the job class of Public Service Assistant (or any reclassified job title of the same group of employees, that may occur during the life of the contract) who are expressly designated to direct the support functions or the building functions (as outlined in the department’s best practices) of a library in the absence of a supervisor or a Lead Worker shall receive a differential of $1.30 per hour for each hour or portion thereof so designated.
The total rate paid to the employee under the provisions of this section shall not be less than the total rate provided by Section 10 of this Article (“work out of class” pay), provided the employee qualified for payment under the provisions of Section 10.
Section 17. In the event the EMPLOYER exercises its discretion to close a department, work site or workplace due to an emergency, including inclement weather, employees who were scheduled to work but could not due to such EMPLOYER decision may use accrued leave (vacation, sick leave, compensatory time, deferred holiday) to cover the hours missed. Further, with the approval of the EMPLOYER, an employee may be allowed to make up the time by working additional hours. Such approved additional hours may be assigned in a work location which is different from the employee’s regular work location, if practicable.
Section 18.	For the job classes of Sheriffs Records Coordinator, and Public Safety Records Clerk, the parties agreed to continue
the shift and weekend differentials as follows:
Sheriffs Records Coordinator, and Public Safety Records Clerk shift differential shall be $1.25 per hour.
Sheriffs Records Coordinator and Public Safety Records Clerk weekend differential shall be $.95 per hour in 2014 2016 and $1.00 per hour in 2017.
Section 19.	An Associate Librarian expressly designated by the EMPLOYER to be in charge of a library in the absence of either a supervisor(s) or a Librarian, will receive, in charge pay, provided such assignment is for a period of at least two (2) hours. The in charge pay will be $1.30 per hour.
Section 20.	Employees expressly assigned by the EMPLOYER to remain in “On Call-Off Premises” status will receive $2.60 per hour (only MHP Services Representative)
Section 21.	In the Sheriff’s Central Records, employees specifically assigned by the Sheriff/designee to perform the duties of
Field Training Officer (FTO), as defined by the Sheriff/designee, will be paid an additional $1.00 per hour for those hours worked as an FTO provided the assignment is for a periodofat least one (1) hour. If an employee is assigned as an FTO they shall be paid the premium pay regardless of the number of trainees. The parties agree that there is a certain degree of guidance and coaching that more experienced employees are expected to provide to new or newly assigned employees. The FTO duties shall be distinguished by the specific assignment of the employee by the Sheriff/designee as the FTO, as well as the requirement that the FTO sign off as a coach on the required evaluation forms. The parties further agree that training done in classroom or orientations performed in an office setting are not the type of training for which the FTO would be eligible for FTO pay.
14 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 22.	In the Sheriff’s Office the job classes of Sheriffs Records Coordinator and Public Safety Records Clerk (formally
Sheriff’s Records Clerks) assigned to Central Records will have the opportunity to bid for their shifts. There will be two shift bids in each bidding year occurring on the same dates as the office bid dates. The bidding seniority will be their seniority within their job class. An employee with less than one year’s job class seniority when a bid is conducted cannot bid.
Section 1.
ARTICLE 10 - HOLIDAYS
Employees shall be entitled to compensated time off for designated holidays.
Designated holidays shall be eight (8) hours each and are as follows:
New Years Day
Martin Luther King Day
Presidents Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Veterans Day
Thanksgiving Day Thanksgiving Friday Christmas Eve Day Christmas Day
January 1
Third Monday in January
Third Monday in February
Last Monday in May
July 4
First Monday in September
November 11
Fourth Thursday in November
The day immediately following Thanksgiving Day
The work day immediately preceding the Christmas holiday
December 25
Section 2.	Employees who are assigned to work a holiday with the exception of Christmas Eve Day shall receive compensation of
two and one-half (2 1/2) times their base pay rate for hours worked on the holiday. Employees who are assigned to work the Christmas Eve holiday shall receive compensation of two (2) times their base pay rate for hours worked on that holiday. Compensation for holiday hours assigned/worked shall be provided either in compensated time off or cash payment as approved by the EMPLOYER.
Section 3.	Except for operations which are seven (7) days per week and twenty-four (24) hours per day, when a holiday, as
designated in this Article, falls on Sunday, the following day (Monday) shall be considered the holiday for employees, or when such holiday falls on Saturday, the preceding day (Friday) shall be considered the holiday for employees. An employee, regardless of his/her work schedule, shall receive the same number of holidays as an employee whose normal work week is Monday through Friday.
Section 4.	Holidays which occur within an employee's approved and compensated vacation or sick leave period will not be
chargeable to the employee's vacation or sick leave time.
Section 5.	Employees may observe a religious holiday on days which do not fall on Sunday or a legal holiday. Observance of such
religious holiday shall be charged against accumulated vacation, compensatory leave or taken as leave without pay. The EMPLOYER may arrange to have the employee work an equivalent number of hours to the hours taken for such holiday if arrangements can be made for the employee to work another day. The employee must notify the EMPLOYER at least ten (10) days in advance of the religious holiday of his/her intent to observe such holiday. The EMPLOYER may waive this ten (10) day requirement if the EMPLOYER determines that absence of such employee will not substantially interfere with the department's function.
ARTICLE 11A - VACATIONS
Section 1.	All full-time employees who choose not to participate in paid time off (PTO), shall be eligible for vacation leave benefits at their current base pay rate.
15 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 2.	Full time employees shall accrue vacation benefits in accordance with the following schedule: Total Length of Service Since Most Recent Date of Hire	Annual Vacation Accrual Rate Less than six (6) months	64 hours More than six (6) months but less than five (5) years	96 hours More than five (5) years but less than eight (8) years	120 hours More than eight (8) years but less than twelve (12) years	144 hours More than twelve (12) years but less than eighteen (18) years	160 hours Over eighteen (18) years	184 hours
Section 3.	Vacation leave shall not accumulate in excess of two hundred eighty (280) hours. The EMPLOYER shall not be responsible for managing an employee's vacation leave balance so as to ensure no loss of the benefit because the balance is at or near the 280 hour limit. Correspondingly, the EMPLOYER will not force employees to take vacation for such purpose.
Section 4.	Requests for vacation leave must be submitted to the employee's designated supervisor at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance of the absence requested and are subject to the supervisor's written approval. The forty-eight (48) hour advance notice requirement may be waived if, in the judgment of the supervisor, the leave will not cause undue inconvenience to the EMPLOYER. The EMPLOYER shall respond in writing to written employee vacation requests within seven (7) calendar days of the date the request is received provided the request is received by the EMPLOYER at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the beginning of the requested vacation period. Such employer approval must be received by the employee in order for such vacation request to be considered approved. Vacations, once approved, shall not be cancelled by the EMPLOYER except for unforeseen circumstances.
Section 5.	When it is necessary for the EMPLOYER to disapprove vacation leave requests because the number of employees requesting leave exceeds the number of employees the EMPLOYER determines it possible to grant such vacation leave, the EMPLOYER shall consider seniority, job assignment and order of submission in granting such requests.
Section 6.	Upon the complete termination of employment, employees shall be eligible to receive their unused accumulated vacation as a severance payment. Any vacation severance shall be paid at the employee's base pay rate at the time of termination, and shall be subject to the limitations on severance payment stated in the Article herein titled "Severance Pay."
Section 7.	Employees may use accumulated vacation leave benefits as an extension of sick leave, provided all sick leave benefits have been exhausted. Vacation leave benefits utilized as an extension of sick leave shall be subject to the same conditions regulating the use of sick leave.
Section 8.	At the discretion of the Department Director, employees hired after December 18, 2001, may receive vacation accrual rate credit for previous relevant experience with another employer. Further, at the discretion of the Department Director, additional vacation accrual may be granted for the purposes of retaining a valuable employee.
Section 9.	Pursuant to Internal Revenue Service Rules and Regulations, employees may annually, with the approval of the County Administrator, cash-out, up to forty (40) hours of vacation. In order to convert such vacation to cash, the employee must, during Open Enrollment of the payroll year PRIOR to conversion, submit to the EMPLOYER in writing, the specific number of vacation hours requested for conversion. The EMPLOYER shall convert such vacation to cash in February of the payroll year following receipt of the irrevocable election. At the employee’s option, he/she may deposit all or part of this cash into a deferred compensation account. ARTICLE 11B - PAID TIME OFF (PTO)
Section 1.	Employees Hired On or After December 21, 2009: Employees hired on or after December 21, 2009 may choose either paid time off (PTO) or the traditional Vacation/Sick Leave Programs described in Articles 11A and 12A of this AGREEMENT. This one-time choice shall be irrevocable and
16 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
must be made during the first full payroll period of employment. Failure to make a definitive choice between paid time off (PTO) and Vacation/Sick Leave will result in the new employee receiving Vacation/Sick Leave. The paid time off (PTO) program available to such employees shall be that described in Schedule 1, below:
Paid Time Off (PTO) Schedule 1
Total Number of Eligible Years Since Most Recent Date of Hire
More than zero (0) months but less than five (5) years
More than five (5) years but less than eight (8) years
More than eight (8) years but less than twelve (12) years
More than twelve (12) years but less than eighteen (18) years
Over eighteen (18) years
Annual Paid Time Off (PTO) Accrual Rate
20 days
23 days
26 days
28 days
31 Days
Section 2.
Employees Hired Prior to December 21, 2009:
Employees hired prior to December 21, 2009 may, at any time after December 21, 2009, choose to move from the traditional Vacation/Sick Leave programs as described in Articles 11A and 12A of this AGREEMENT, to paid time off (PTO). This one-time choice shall be irrevocable. The paid time off (PTO) program available to such employees shall be that described in Schedule 2, below:
Paid Time Off (PTO) Schedule 2
Total Number of Eligible Years Since Most Recent Date of Hire	Annual PTO Accrual Rate
More than zero (0) months but less than five (5) years	22 days
More than five (5) years but less than eight (8) years	25 days
More than eight (8) years but less than twelve (12) years	28 days
More than twelve (12) years but less than eighteen (18) years	30 days
Over eighteen (18) years	33 days
Section 3.	Unused paid time off (PTO) hours, which have accrued to the credit of the employee, may be accumulated to a maximum
of sixty (60) days (480 hours).
Section 4.	For employees who choose paid time off (PTO), paid time off (PTO) and vacation hours shall be combined and referred to
as paid time off (PTO). However, no employee may accrue more than 480 hours of paid time off (PTO). The EMPLOYER shall not be responsible for managing an employee’s paid time off (PTO) balance so as to ensure no loss of benefit because the balance is at or near the 480 hour limit. Correspondingly, the EMPLOYER will not force an employee to take paid time off (PTO) for such purpose.
Section 5.	Requests for paid time off (PTO) must be submitted to the employee’s designated supervisor at least forty-eight (48) hours
in advance of the absence requested and are subject to the supervisor’s written approval. The forty-eight (48) hour notice requirement may be waived in the event of illness, or if in the judgment of the supervisor, the leave will not cause undue inconvenience to the EMPLOYER. The EMPLOYER shall respond in writing to written employee paid time off (PTO) requests within seven (7) calendar days of the date the request is received provided the request is received by the EMPLOYER at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the beginning of the requested paid time off (PTO) period. Such EMPLOYER approval must be received by the employee in order for such vacation request to be considered approved. Paid time off (PTO), once approved, shall not be cancelled by the EMPLOYER, except for unforeseen circumstances.
Section 6.	When it is necessary for the EMPLOYER to disapprove paid time off (PTO) leave requests because the number of
employees requesting leave exceeds the number of employees the EMPLOYER determines it possible to grant such vacation leave, the EMPLOYER shall consider seniority, job assignment and order of submission in granting such requests.
17 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 7.	Upon complete termination of employment, regular employees shall be eligible to receive their unused accumulated paid time off (PTO) as a severance payment. Any paid time off (PTO) severance shall be paid at the employee’s base pay rate at the time of termination.
Section 8.	At the discretion of the Department Director, employees hired after December 21, 2009, may receive paid time off (PTO) accrual rate credit for previous relevant experience with another employer. Further, at the discretion of the Department Director, additional paid time off (PTO) accrual may be granted for purposes of retaining a valuable employee.
Section 9.	Employees may use paid time off (PTO) to pay for approved health and fitness activities to a maximum of $2,000.00 per year. Where applicable, this language shall be coordinated with Article 12B, Sick Leave, Section 6, to ensure that no employee uses paid time off (PTO) hours and frozen sick leave hours totalling more than $2,000.00 per year.
Section 10.	A disabled employee who, because of illness or injury, has exhausted all paid time off (PTO) benefits may be granted a medical leave of absence without pay. The seniority status of a disabled employee who is granted a medical leave of absence shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the article herein titled “Seniority.” An employee requesting a medical leave of absence without pay shall be required to furnish conclusive Evidence of disability to the EMPLOYER. If the employee fails to furnish conclusive evidence that the absence from duty is necessary, or if the employee fails to undergo an evaluation or furnish a medical report as requested by the EMPLOYER in accordance with the article herein titled “Fitness for Duty”, the EMPLOYER shall have the right to require the employee to return to work on a specified date. Should the employee not return to work on such specified date, the employee may be considered to have resigned in accordance with the article herein titled “Absence Without Leave.”
Section 11.	Employees who consistently fail to provide adequate notice prior to the use of paid time off (PTO), shall be subject to disciplinary action or shall be required to submit medical verification attesting to the necessity of the leave from a medical authority.
Section 12.	If an employee terminates employment in good standing by providing two (2) weeks written notice, such employee shall be paid for any unused paid time off (PTO) balances at the employee’s base pay rate. If the employee fails to provide such required notice, the EMPLOYER shall exclude eighty (80) hours of paid time off (PTO) to which the employee may be otherwise entitled.
Section 13.	If an employee joins the bargaining unit having participated in the EMPLOYER’s paid time off (PTO) Program, such employee shall retain paid time off (PTO) at their existing PTO schedule 1 or 2.
Section14.	Pursuant to Internal Revenue Service Rules and Regulations, employees may annually, with the approval of the County Administrator, cash-out up to forty (40) hours of Paid Time Off (PTO). In order to convert such PTO to cash, the employee must, during open enrollment of the payroll year PRIOR to conversion, submit to the EMPLOYER in writing, the specific number of PTO hours requested for conversion. The EMPLOYER shall convert such PTO to cash in February of the payroll year following receipt of the irrevocable election. At the employee’s option, he/she may deposit all or part of this cash into a deferred compensation account. ARTICLE 12A - SICK LEAVE
Section 1.	Sick leave shall be earned by employees who choose not to participate in paid time off (PTO) at the rate of .046154 hours for each hour of service except that newly hired, re-employed or reinstated employees who have completed less than six (6) months of service, shall earn sick leave benefits at the rate of .030769 hours for each hour of service.
Section 2.	Sick leave benefits shall only accrue when an employee is on compensated regular hours or, in accordance with state and federal laws, is on approved military leave.
Section 3.	An employee may accumulate seven hundred twenty (720) hours of sick leave. For every eight (8) hours of sick leave accumulated in excess of seven hundred twenty (720) hours, the employee will be given credit for four (4) hours of additional vacation and four (4) hours of sick leave. Sick leave shall be charged off only for hours that would normally have been worked.
18 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 4.	Upon complete termination of employment in good standing of any regular employee, such employee shall be paid for his/her accumulated unused sick leave at the employee's base pay rate subject to the limitations on severance payment stated in the Article herein titled "Severance Pay."
Section 5.	An employee may utilize his/her allowance of sick leave on the basis of application therefor approved by the EMPLOYER for absences necessitated by inability to perform the duties of his/her position by reason of illness or injury, by necessity for medical care or dental care, or by exposure to contagious disease under circumstances in which the health of employees with whom he/she is associated or members of the public with whom he/she deals would be endangered by his/her attendance on duty, or by illness in his/her immediate family for such periods as his/her absence is necessary subject to certification by medical authority.
The term "immediate family" is limited to child, stepchild, adopted child, foster child, adult child, spouse, sibling, parent, stepparent, grandparent and an adult person regularly residing in the employee's immediate household.
The amount of sick leave that can be used to care for an employee’s adult child, spouse, sibling, parent, stepparent, grandparent or adult person regularly residing in the employee’s immediate household may not exceed 160 hours in the aggregate in any 12-month period.
Sick leave usage is subject to approval and verification by the EMPLOYER who may, after three (3) consecutive days' absence, require the employee to furnish a report from a recognized physical or mental authority attesting to the necessity of the leave, and other information the EMPLOYER deems necessary, as provided in the Article herein titled "Fitness for Duty." Employees whose use of sick leave is habitual, patterned or inappropriate may be required to submit such report for absences of less than three (3) days duration.
Section 6.	Sick leave benefits when authorized shall be paid at the employee's current base pay rate.
Section 7. To be eligible for sick leave payment, an employee must notify his/her supervisor or his/her designee as soon as possible but not later than the starting time of his/her scheduled shift. This notice may be waived if the employee can conclusively establish that he/she could not reasonably have been expected to comply with this requirement because of circumstances beyond the control of the employee. Except that, to be eligible for sick leave payment, an employee of the Sheriff’s Office who works in a twenty-four (24) hour operation must notify his/her designated supervisor or his/her designee as soon as possible but not less than (2) hours prior to the starting time of his/her scheduled shift. This notice may be waived if it is determined that the employee could not reasonably be expected to comply with this requirement.
Section 8.	A disabled employee who, because of illness or injury, has exhausted all sick leave benefits may be granted a medical leave of absence without pay. The seniority status of a disabled employee who is granted a medical leave of absence shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Article herein titled "Seniority." An employee requesting a medical leave of absence without pay shall be required to furnish conclusive evidence of disability to the EMPLOYER. If the employee fails to furnish conclusive evidence that the absence from duty is necessary, or if the employee fails to undergo an evaluation or furnish a medical report as requested by the EMPLOYER in accordance with the Article herein titled "Fitness for Duty," the EMPLOYER shall have the right to require the employee to return to work on a specified date. Should the employee not return to work on such specified date, the employee may be considered to have resigned in accordance with the Article herein titled "Absence Without Leave."
Section 9.	All sick leave that has been accumulated by an employee shall be cancelled upon the date of separation from the County service.
Section 10.	Employees may utilize sick leave to pay for approved health and fitness activities, to a maximum of $2,000.00 per year.
Section 11.	When an employee leaves employment with the county and later returns to a regular position, sick leave hours will not be
restored.
ARTICLE 12B - SICK LEAVE
Section 1. For employees who choose paid time off (PTO), sick leave balances, if any, will be frozen. No additional sick leave will accrue.
19 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 2.	An employee’s frozen sick leave balance, if any, may be accessed for any approved absence from work. Use of frozen sick leave shall be limited to inability to perform the duties of his/her position by reason of illness or injury, by necessity for medical care or dental care, or by exposure to contagious disease under which the health of employees with whom he/she is associated or members of the public with whom he/she deals would be endangered by his/her attendance on duty, or by illness in his/her immediate family for such periods as his/her absence shall be necessary subject to certification by a medical authority.
Section 3.	Upon complete termination of employment in good standing of any regular employee, such employee shall be paid for his/her frozen sick leave balance at the employee’s base pay rate subject to the limitations on severance payment stated in the article herein titled “Severance Pay”.
Section 4.	Frozen sick leave benefits, when authorized, shall be paid at the employee’s current base pay rate.
Section 5.	Employees who elect to participate in the EMPLOYER’s paid time off (PTO) Program, shall not accrue sick leave, but rather shall accrue paid time off (PTO) consistent with Article 11B, Paid Time Off (PTO).
Section 6.	Employees may utilize their frozen sick leave to pay for approved Health and fitness activities to a maximum of $2,000.00 per year. ARTICLE 13 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1.	Except as otherwise provided in this AGREEMENT, written request for leave shall be made by employees prior to the beginning of the period(s) of absence and no payment for any absence shall be made until the leave is properly approved. All leaves of absence without pay shall be granted at the discretion of the EMPLOYER and must be approved by the EMPLOYER in advance. Upon application by the employee, leaves of absence may be extended or renewed at the discretion of the EMPLOYER.
Section 2.	Authorization for or denial of a requested leave of absence without pay of more than ten (10) working days duration, shall be furnished to the employee in writing by the EMPLOYER within seven (7) working days of its receipt. All leave of absence requests shall be given reasonable consideration by the EMPLOYER.
Section 3.	Deductions from leave accumulations for an employee on leave with pay shall be made on a work shift basis, and no such deductions shall be made from leave accumulations for holidays or non-work days falling within such leave with pay, subject to the provisions set forth in the Article herein titled "Holidays."
Section 4.	Accrual of vacation leave, sick leave and paid time off (PTO) benefits during the period of leave of absence with pay shall continue. If an employee is granted leave without pay, he/she will not be credited with vacation, sick leave and paid time off (PTO) accruals for the period of leave without pay with the exception of approved military leave when required by law.
Section 5.	A leave of absence for birth or adoption of a child shall be in accordance with the policy set forth in Section 12, Hours of Work and Leaves of Absence, of the Hennepin County Human Resources Rules.
Section 6.	All leaves of absence without pay shall be subject to the condition that the EMPLOYER may cancel the leave at any time upon prior notice to the employee specifying a date of termination of the leave. Military leave, leave for purposes of union business or educational leave approved by the EMPLOYER in writing as non-cancelable for a specific duration shall not be subject to such cancellation. Notwithstanding the above, the EMPLOYER, upon prior notice to the employee, may cancel any approved leave of absence at any time the EMPLOYER has evidence that the employee is using the leave for purposes other than those specified at the time of approval.
Section 7.	No leave of absence without pay shall be granted for the purpose of accepting or continuing other employment.
Section 8.	Any employee returning from an approved leave of absence as covered by this Article who has complied with all the conditions upon which the leave was approved shall: A. Be reinstated in the position held at the time the leave was granted if the leave was for a period of less than six months duration, or
20 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
B.	In the event the position held at the time the leave was granted has been filled or abolished, the employee shall be reinstated to a vacant position for which qualified in the class, bargaining unit and department from which leave was granted, or
C.	In the event no vacancy exists in the class, bargaining unit and department from which leave was granted, the employee may either exercise County seniority to replace the least senior employee in the class, bargaining unit and organizational unit from which the leave was granted, provided the employee is qualified to perform the work of the less senior employee, or if mutually agreeable to the employee and the EMPLOYER, be placed on a layoff list for the class, bargaining unit and department from which leave was granted. The salary rate for an employee reinstated following a leave of absence shall be the rate the employee held at the time the leave was granted or such rate as adjusted by a general adjustment to the class.
Section 9. A leave of absence for purposes of union business shall be in accordance with M.S. 179A.07, subd. 6.
Section 10. An employee acting in his/her official capacity within the limits of the authority established by the EMPLOYER who receives a disabling injury during the performance of assigned official duties wherein the injury is sustained through a physical assault by a client or a member of the public, and wherein the employee has not contributed to the cause of the injury through negligence or provocation, may be granted leave with pay for any period of disability up to ninety (90) calendar days. Request for such leave shall be presented to the EMPLOYER together with supporting documentation including appropriate physician(s) reports. Such leave, if granted, shall not be charged to normal sick leave and shall be subject to the provisions of the contractual Article herein titled "Leave Benefits and Workers’ Compensation Benefits."
ARTICLE 14	- ABSENCE WITHOUT LEAVE
Any absence of an employee from scheduled duty that has not been previously authorized by the EMPLOYER may be deemed an absence without leave. Any employee absent without leave will be subject to disciplinary action, and any employee absent without leave for three (3) consecutive days may be deemed to have resigned his/her employment, provided that the EMPLOYER may grant approval for leave subsequent to the unauthorized absence if the employee can conclusively establish to the EMPLOYER that the circumstances surrounding the absence and failure to request leave were beyond the employee's control.
ARTICLE 15	- LEAVE BENEFITS AND WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS
Any employee who by reason of sickness or injury receives workers’ compensation benefits may do either of the following:
A. Retain the workers’ compensation benefits and request to be placed on a medical leave of absence without pay, or B. Retain the workers’ compensation benefit and receive from the County any available earned accumulated sick leave, vacation leave, paid time off (PTO) or other accumulated leave benefit.
The total weekly compensation including leave and workers’ compensation benefits shall not exceed the regular weekly base pay rate of an employee.
ARTICLE 16	- FUNERAL LEAVE
The EMPLOYER will approve and administer leave with pay in cases of death in the immediate family for purposes of attending funeral services and absences necessary to make funeral arrangements for the decedent. The degree of relationship is limited to: spouse, parent, step-parent, parent-in-law, children, stepchildren, brothers, brothers-in-law, sisters, sisters-in-law, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, grandparents, grandparents-in-law, grandchildren, or person regarded as a member of the employee's immediate family. Such leave shall be limited to a maximum of three (3) days (twenty-four (24) compensated hours) per occurrence not to exceed forty-eight (48) hours in any calendar year. (See Attachment C).
ARTICLE 17	- MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
In accordance with the requirements and provisions of state and federal laws, employees shall be entitled to military leaves of absence without pay for services in the armed forces of the United States and reinstatement at the expiration of such leave. Such leave shall be authorized only in cases where the employee has been officially called to active duty in the military service and shall be authorized only as long as the employee is in the service as required by the government.
21 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
ARTICLE 18	- MILITARY RESERVE TRAINING
In accordance with state and federal laws, any employee who is a member of any reserve component of the military forces of the United States required by official military orders or related authority to attend Military Reserve training shall receive full wages at his/her current base pay rate for the period of the active duty required for such training not to exceed fifteen (15) days per calendar year.
ARTICLE 19	- COURT DUTY
Section 1.	After due notice to the EMPLOYER, employees subpoenaed to serve as a witness in cases arising from or during the performance of their official duties, or called and selected for jury duty, shall be allowed their regular compensation at their current base pay rate for the period the court duty requires their absence from work duty, plus any expenses paid by the court. Such employees, so compensated, shall not be eligible to retain jury duty pay or witness fees and shall turn any such pay or fees received over to the EMPLOYER. If an employee is excused from jury duty prior to the end of his/her work shift, he/she shall return to work as directed by the EMPLOYER or make arrangement for a leave of absence.
Section 2.	Any absence, whether voluntary or by legal order to appear or testify in private litigation, not in the status of an employee but as a plaintiff or defendant, shall not qualify for leave under this Article and shall be charged against accumulated leave or be without pay.
ARTICLE 20	- ELECTION DAYS
An employee who is entitled to vote in any election, as defined in M.S. 204C.04, subd 2, may absent himself/herself from his/her work for the purpose of voting during such election day for a period not to exceed two (2) hours without deduction from salary on account of such absence, provided the employee has made prior arrangements for the absence with the EMPLOYER. Any employee making claim for time off for voting and not casting a ballot or utilizing the time off for unauthorized purposes shall be subject to disciplinary action.
ARTICLE 21	- TIME OFF FOR TESTING
Section 1.	Employees who have applied for promotional or transfer opportunity and are scheduled to participate in an examination process scheduled during the employee's work time will be granted time off for such purpose if the EMPLOYER determines its service will not be unduly affected by the employee's absence. Employees granted such time off will normally be scheduled to make up the time either before or after the absence provided the makeup time shall not qualify the employee for any premium compensation for which the employee would not otherwise have been eligible. If the EMPLOYER determines it is not practicable to arrange for the time to be made up, the employee shall use earned leave for the absence or, if not available, take it without pay.
Section 2.	Subject to the conditions set forth in Section 1 herein, and not more often than twice each calendar year, employees shall be compensated for an examination process administered during the employee's regularly scheduled working hours.
ARTICLE 22 - INSURANCE
Section 1. Employee Contributions toward Health Premiums
A. 2016 Single Coverage
Standard Plan:
Health Partners/Fairview Health
HCMC/NorthPoint
$80.00/month, an increase of $5.00/month.
$46.86/month, an increase of $5.00/month.
$13.72/month, an increase of $5.00/month.
2016 Family Coverage
No change in the percentage of the employee’s cost share. 2016 rates reflect an overall premium increase of 4.25%
Standard Plan
Health Partners/Fairview Health
HCMC/Northpoint
Standard Plan
Health Partners/Fairview Health
HCMC/Northpoint
Standard Plan
Single + Spouse Single + Spouse Single + Spouse
Single + Child(ren) Single + Child(ren) Single + Child(ren)
Family
25.15%; or $408.34/month
21.21% or $327.16/month
16.83% or $245.98/month
25.14%; or312.76/month
21.20% or $250.56/month
16.83% or $188.36/month
23.94%; or$455.04/month
22 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
B.
Health Partners/ Fairview Health	Family
HCMC/Northpoint	Family
19.94%; or$360.02/month
15.49%; or$265.02/month
2017 Single Coverage Standard Plan: Health Partners/Fairview Health HCMC /NorthPoint	$85.00/month, an increase of $5.00/month over2016. $51.86/ month, an increase of $5.00/month over 2016 $18.72/month, an increase of $5.00/month over2016
2017 Family Coverage
No change in the percentage of the employee’s cost share. Actual premiums for 2017 are TBD.
Standard Plan
Health Partners/Fairview Health
HCMC/Northpoint
Standard Plan
Health Partners/Fairview Health
HCMC/Northpoint
Standard Plan
Health Partners/Fairview Health
HCMC/Northpoint
2018 Single Coverage
Standard Plan:
Health Partners/Fairview Health
HCMC/NorthPoint
Single + Spouse Single + Spouse Single + Spouse
Single + Child(ren) Single + Child(ren) Single + Child(ren)
Family
Family
Family
25.15% (Employerpays 74.85%)
21.21% (Employer pay 78.79%)
16.83% (Employer pays 83.17%)
25.14% (Employerpays 74.86%)
21.20% (Employerpays 78.8%)
16.83% (Employer pays 83.17%)
23.94% (Employerpays 76.06%)
19.94% (Employer pays 80.06%)
15.49% (Employer pays 84.51%)
$90.00/month, an increase of $5.00/month over2017
$56.86/month, an increase of $5.00/month over2017
$23.72/month, an increase of $5.00/month over2017
2018 Family Coverage
No change in the percentage of the employee’s cost share. Actual premiums for 2018 are TBD.
Standard Plan
Health Partners/Fairview Health
HCMC/Northpoint
Standard Plan
Health Partners/Fairview Health
HCMC/Northpoint
Standard Plan
Health Partners/Fairview Health
HCMC/Northpoint
Single + Spouse Single + Spouse Single + Spouse
Single + Child(ren) Single + Child(ren) Single + Child(ren)
Family
Family
Family
25.15% (Employerpays 74.85%)
21.21% (Employerpays 78.79%)
16.83% (Employer pays 83.17%)
25.14% (Employerpays 74.86%)
21.20% (Employerpays 78.8%)
16.83% (Employer pays 83.17%)
23.94% (Employerpays 76.06%)
19.94% (Employer pays 80.06%)
15.49% (Employer pays 84.51%)
Health Insurance Plan Design Changes, 2016
The projected 7.9% premium cost increase for 2016 will be mitigated by 0.75% with the following Plan Design changes.
On-line Care
Virtual on-line medical services are available at no cost to employees via Virtuwell (Health Partners Advantage) and Zipnosis (Fairview Health Advantage) and EVisit (HCMC/Northpoint) and MDLive (all plans). Please encourage your members to learn about and avail themselves of these services.
Office Visit Co-Pays
BeWell Clinic will not have an office visit co-pay.
Advantage HCMC/NorthPoint will not have an office visit co-pay, however other provider locations in this network will have a $20.00 office visit co-pay.
The Three (3) for Free office visit program will remain in effect for the Advantage Plans.
23 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
All plans, other than Advantage HCMC/ Northpoint, will have a $5.00 increase to $35.00per office visit without incentive and a $5.00 increase to $20.00per office visit when incentive completed.
Prescription Drug Co-Pay (All Plans)
Generic co-pay increases $5.00 to $20.00
NOTE: when the cost of the drug cost is lower than the co-pay, the drug cost is paid.
Mail Order Pharmacy (Navitus)
Generic co-pay will be $40.00 for 90 day supply.
Brand co-pay will remain $80.00 for 90 day supply.
NOTE: the advantage here is you pay 2 months co-pay for 3 mos. of drug supply.
Out of pocket maximums will remain the same ($2,500per individual, $4,500per family).
C. Health Insurance Premium and Plan Design Changes, 2017 and2018,2019
The parties agree to a consensus decision making model within the context of the existing Labor Management Health Care Committee (LMHCC) for the purpose of setting plan design and premium for the years 2017,2018 and 2019 as described below, and subject to the consensus parameters agreed to by the parties and incorporated by reference as an extension to this AGREEMENT.
The LMHCC’s consensus recommendations will be advisory to the EMPLOYER. If a consensus decision is reached by 8/31 of any given year of the contract, both the UNION and the County agree to be bound by the decision, pending County Administration approval. The consensus recommendation will be submitted to County Administration for final approval.
If a consensus decision is not reached by the LMHCC by 8/31 in any given year of the contract, the EMPLOYER will, in its sole discretion, set the health insurance premiums for each plan and implement plan design changes, if any, for that particular year, after consulting with the third party administrator, benefits consultants, and based on the discussions with and input from LMHCC.
During the last year of the contract, If a consensus decision on plan design and premium or continuation of the consensus model is not reached by the LMHCC by 8/31 of thatyear, the parties shall revert to the negotiation process as it has in the past. The EMPLOYER shall present their proposal for changes to plan design and premium in the traditional contract negotiation format, after consulting with the third party administrator, benefits consultants, and based on discussions with and input from the LMHCC. Employee contributions for the subsequent AGREEMENT will continue to be subject to negotiations between the parties.
The consensus model described herein will expire on 8/31 of the last year of this AGREEMENT, unless the LMHCC provides a consensus recommendation that it should be continued into the subsequent AGREEMENT.
D.	Health Insurance Provider Tiers, 2016,2017,2018
As agreed to in prior contracts, the EMPLOYER will, in its sole authority, determine for2016,2017and 2018 how many tiers and which providers are included in which tier. Any such changes will be shared with the LMHCC group with the driving reason for such change and the financial impact initiating the change.
NOTE: Consistent with previous rounds of bargaining, the health insurance plan design and the provider networks /tiers shall not appear in the labor agreement(s), but rather shall reside on the Human Resources Benefits Unit website.
E.	Health Care Plan Reserves Fund
24 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
The EMPLOYER will use $3,000,000 from the Health Care Plan Reserves Fund to offset the predicted 2016 premium cost increase of 7.9%.
This action will allow for an additional 2.9% point reduction in premium cost. In combination with the 0.75% point reduction in premium cost gained through plan design changes discussed above, the end result is a 4.25% increase to premium costs.
In 2017 and 2018, the EMPLOYER, in its sole discretion, will determine if and how many dollars from the Reserves Fund will be utilized.
F.	Dependent Audit
In 2014, the EMPLOYER conducted a dependent audit. The parties understand that new employees will continue to be required to provide evidence to establish dependent status.
Section 2.	Subject to I.R.S. Rules and Regulations, each employee covered by this AGREEMENT may individually elect to participate in the Hennepin County Health Care Expense Account plan as an option to the EMPLOYER hospitalization and medical insurance coverage allowance specified in Section 1. Employees may voluntarily elect to have a portion of their gross earnings placed in a special account to be managed on their behalf by the EMPLOYER. The employee can use funds from this account to pay certain employee expenses that qualify for exemption from mandatory payroll deductions such as income taxes. Such expense account arrangement shall afford employees the opportunity to pay their qualifying expenses with earnings unreduced by certain mandatory payroll deductions.
Section 3.	Subject to I.R.S. Rules and Regulations, each employee covered by this AGREEMENT may individually elect to participate in the Dependent Care Assistance Program provided by the EMPLOYER. Employees may voluntarily elect to have a portion of their gross earnings placed in a special account to be managed on their behalf by the EMPLOYER. The employee can use funds from this account to pay certain employee expenses that qualify for exemption from mandatory payroll deductions such as income taxes and pension contributions. Such expense account arrangement shall afford employees the opportunity to pay their qualifying expenses with earnings unreduced by mandatory payroll deductions.
Section 4.	Subject to I.R.S. Rules and Regulations, each employee covered by this AGREEMENT may individually elect to participate in the Hennepin County Parking Expense Account plan. Employees may voluntarily elect to have a portion of their gross earnings placed in a special account to be managed on their behalf by the EMPLOYER. The employee can use funds from this account to pay certain employee expenses that qualify for exemption from mandatory payroll deductions such as income taxes.
Section 5.	The EMPLOYER shall pay the full cost of a $30,000.00 accidental death and dismemberment individual term life insurance contract for each employee.
Section 6.	The EMPLOYER shall, subject to availability, arrange for a group Long Term Disability Insurance Plan which shall be in accordance with criteria and benefit levels established between the EMPLOYER and underwriter. Implementation and continuance shall be contingent upon such a plan being available in accordance with those criteria and available on an individual employee option basis. Employees electing the Long Term Disability option will have their sick leave accrual rate charged for the equivalent number of hours necessary to provide for the premium cost, the value of each sick leave hour to be equivalent to the employee's hourly salary rate. Employees who do not have sufficient sick leave accrual to cover premium cost shall make sufficient cost payment to the EMPLOYER. If such a plan cannot be provided on an individual option basis, the EMPLOYER has no obligation to provide for this coverage.
Section 7.	It is expressly understood that the EMPLOYER's obligation in this Article is limited to payment of the specified premium charges for the group insurance coverage as specified herein.
Section 8.	The EMPLOYER reserves the right to change insurance carriers or self-insure. If such change of carriers or self-insurance is to result in a change in the level of employee benefits, the EMPLOYER agrees to meet and confer with the UNION on the change.
25 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 9.	The EMPLOYER shall, subject to availability, arrange for a group Short Term Disability Insurance Plan which shall be in accordance with criteria and benefit levels established between the EMPLOYER and the underwriter. Implementation and continuance shall be contingent upon such a plan being available in accordance with those criteria and available on an individual employee option basis. Employees electing the Short Term Disability option will have their sick leave accrual rate charged for the equivalent number of hours necessary to provide for the premium cost, the value of each sick leave hour to be equivalent to the employee’s hourly salary rate. Employees who do not have sufficient sick leave accrual to cover premium cost shall make sufficient cost payment to the EMPLOYER. If such plan cannot be provided on an individual option basis, the EMPLOYER has no obligation to provide this coverage.
Section 10.	Early Retiree Health Insurance Program (ERHIP).
Subd. 1. Benefit. The County shall provide access to the County’s group health insurance program for eligible employees until the end of the month in which the employee turns age 65. An eligible employee shall receive the same County contribution towards the health insurance continuation benefit provided for in the ERHIP as though the employee is actively working and has elected single coverage in the County’s group health insurance program. An eligible employee may elect to continue coverage under the County’s group health insurance program for dependents provided the employee pays 100% of the cost of dependent coverage in addition to any required share of the single premium. The County may establish appropriate policies and procedures to implement and administer the ERHIP that are not inconsistent with the requirements of this section. These include, but are not limited to, the application process and the time period required to apply for EHRIP benefits, the process for remitting premium payments, adding or deleting dependents from coverage or the termination of coverage for the non-payment of premiums.
Subd. 2 Eligibility. Only employees that have County group health insurance coverage in force on the date of employment termination and who were hired by the County prior to January 1, 2008, are eligible to participate in the ERHIP. Employees newly hired, re-hired or re-instated after January 1, 2008, are ineligible to participate in the ERHIP. To receive the health insurance continuation benefit provided for in the ERHIP, the employee must meet at least one of the following three eligibility requirements:
A. The eligible employee meets one of the following age and years of service requirements:
Age	Non Continuous Years of Service
55 but less than 62 62 but less than 63 63 but less than 64 64 but less than 65	20 15 14 13
B.	The eligible employee at the time of retirement qualifies for and applies for a full, unreduced retirement annuity (other than a deferred annuity), based on a minimum of ten (10) years of Hennepin County service, from an approved Minnesota public service retirement program.
C.	The eligible employee at the time of retirement qualifies for and applies for a retirement annuity (other than a deferred annuity), from an approved Minnesota public service retirement program with at least twenty-five (25) years of covered service, at least ten (10) of which must have been with Hennepin County.
Subd. 2a Eligibility for Minneapolis Public Library (MPL) Employees. All persons employed in a regular position by the Minneapolis Library Board who are transferred to Hennepin County employment as a regular employee as a result of a merger between the Hennepin County and Minneapolis library systems are eligible to participate in the ERHIP. Former MPL employees may also exercise their right to opt-out of the ERHIP as provided in subdivision 3, provided they do so by July 1, 2008, or 30 days after the effective date of the merger, whichever date is later. Former MPL employees transferred to Hennepin County as a result of a merger shall not receive credit for their years of service at MPL for purposes of determining eligibility for the ERHIP.
26 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Only time spent in service while employed by Hennepin County as a regular employee will count towards determining eligibility for the ERHIP.
Subd. 3 Opt-out. Employees eligible to participate in the ERHIP may opt out of the program. Employees desiring to opt-out must elect in writing prior to July 1, 2008, whether they will maintain their current retiree insurance benefit, or opt out of the ERHIP and participate in the Health Care Savings Plan (HCSP) option. This is a one-time, irrevocable election. Employees who do not make an election in writing prior to July 1, 2008, will be deemed to have elected to retain their current retiree insurance benefit under the ERHIP. If an employee who is eligible for ERHIP becomes part of the bargaining unit and has not previously had the opportunity to opt-out, such employee shall be given the opportunity at a time which is mutually agreed upon by the EMPLOYER and the UNION.
Subd. 4. No Guarantee of Future Benefit. Nothing in this section shall be construed to be a guarantee of future retiree health insurance benefits beyond the expiration date of this AGREEMENT. The County and the Union (or in the case of an unit of essential employees, an interest arbitrator) reserve the right during subsequent negotiations to modify, amend, or terminate, in whole or in part, this ERHIP. In the event the union is decertified as the exclusive representative, the County may, at any time after the expiration of this AGREEMENT, modify, amend, or terminate, in whole or in part, this ERHIP.
Section 11.	Health Care Savings Plan (HCSP)
Subd. 1. Establishment of HCSP. A Health Care Savings Plan (HCSP) is established to enable Hennepin County employees to save money on a pre-tax basis to pay post-County employment medical expenses and/or health insurance premiums. EMPLOYER and employee contributions designated below shall be deposited with a HCSP provider selected by the EMPLOYER. The County and the HCSP provider may establish appropriate policies and procedures to implement and administer the HCSP that are not inconsistent with the requirements of this section.
Subd. 2 Eligibility. Only regular, benefits-eligible employees are eligible to participate in the HCSP. Employees hired, re-hired or re-instated after January 1, 2008, unrepresented employees newly hired, rehired or re-instated between January 1, 2007, and December 31, 2007, who become part of the bargaining unit after December 31, 2007, and employees that exercised their right to opt-out of the ERHIP, are required to participate in the HCSP. Former MPL employees who exercise their right to opt-out of the ERHIP and participate in the Health Care Savings Plan (HCSP) option shall only have their time spent in service while employed by Hennepin County as a regular employee count towards determining eligibility for the County contribution in subdivision 4.
Subd. 3. Employee Contribution. Eligible employees shall contribute one percent (1%) of their salary on a per pay period basis to the HCSP.
Subd. 4. County Contribution The County shall make the following annual contributions to an eligible employee’s HCSP account beginning in 2009. The County’s annual lump sum contribution shall be made in the first full pay period following an employee’s anniversary date as follows:
Years of Service	County Annual Contribution
More than 5 years and less than 10 years of service. $500.00 per year More than 10 years and less than 15 years of service. $600.00 per year More than 15 years of service.	$700.00 per year
Section 12 Pursuant to Article 22, Section 10, Subd. 1, the EMPLOYER shall apply the terms of Hennepin County Board Resolution 09-0339 (attached) to eligible employees covered by this AGREEMENT.
27 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
ARTICLE 23	- SEVERANCE PAY
Section 1.	Severance pay shall be paid to regular employees who have completely terminated their employment with the County in good standing and have completed eight (8) years of continuous service with the County. Any employee who shall have received severance pay upon termination of his/her employment shall not again be eligible to accrue any severance pay benefits upon re-employment with the County except for any hours accumulated in excess of the number for which he/she has been previously compensated. Such severance shall be based upon and measured by unused accumulated sick leave and unused accumulated vacation leave accruing to such employee during Hennepin County employment. Such severance pay shall not exceed eight hundred (800) hours of the unused accumulated sick leave and unused vacation leave which has accrued to the credit of the employee at the date of severance of such employment. Severance pay shall be computed on the basis of the employee's base pay rate in effect on the date of termination. Severance pay of a deceased employee shall be paid to a named beneficiary or, lacking that, his/her estate or legal representative.
Employees shall provide the EMPLOYER with two (2) weeks written notice in advance of the date the employee leaves. If an employee fails to provide the required two (2) week notice, the EMPLOYER shall exclude eighty (80) hours of sick leave severance pay to which the employee may be otherwise entitled in accordance with this AGREEMENT.
Section 2.	All accumulated leave benefits shall be expired upon the date of severance from County service.
Section 3.	The eligibility provisions of this Article regarding years of service shall not apply to regular employees who die prior to
achieving eight (8) years of service with the County.
ARTICLE 24	- STABILITY ADJUSTMENTS
Section 1. When an employee has completed five (5) years of continuous service in the County as of December 1 of the current year, he/she shall be eligible to receive two and one-half (2 1/2) percent of his/her annual salary for the current calendar year based on his/her current base rate of pay. For each additional year of continuous service after five, the employee shall qualify for an additional one-half (1/2) of one (1) percent up to and including his/her tenth year. For all continuous service after ten (10) years, the stability payment shall continue at the rate established for the tenth year of five (5) percent. At the discretion of the EMPLOYER, time on authorized leave of absence for education may be included in computing stability compensation.
The maximum annual salary on which stability pay will be computed shall be in accordance with the following schedule: Maximum Base Salary On Which	
Years of Service	StabilityPay Will Be Computed
Less than eleven (11) years of continuous service	$16,000
Eleven (11) years but less than twelve (12) years of continuous service	$17,000
Twelve (12) years but less than thirteen (13) years of continuous service	$18,000
Thirteen (13) years but less than fourteen (14) years of continuous service	$19,000
Fourteen (14) years but less than fifteen (15) years of continuous service	$20,000
Fifteen (15) years but less than sixteen (16) years of continuous service	$21,000
Sixteen (16) years but less than seventeen (17) years of continuous service	$22,000
Seventeen (17) years but less than eighteen (18) years of continuous service	$23,000
Eighteen (18) or more years of continuous service. Such stability payment shall be paid in a lump sum on a December payroll.	$24,000
Section 2.	Any employee who by reason of a work related injury receives workers’ compensation benefits, shall receive credit for time spent on such medical leave for purposes of stability pay eligibility.
Section 3.	Any employee upon retiring from County service may be paid the stability payment as of the date of his/her retirement. However, such payment shall be prorated on the number of payroll periods worked during the calendar year in which such employee retired.
Section 4.	Stability pay may also be paid to survivors in the case of death while the individual is an employee of the County. Such payment shall be prorated on the number of payroll periods worked during the calendar year in which death occurred.
28 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
ARTICLE 25	- PART-TIME / LIMITED DURATION EMPLOYEES
Section 1. a regular part-time employee working less than the full-time schedule shall not participate in any benefits provided by this AGREEMENT except those working a schedule of twenty (20) hours or more per week shall participate in benefits in the same ratio that his/her actual hours worked bears to the full-time work schedule. The EMPLOYER shall pay, however, the same health insurance premium amounts to employees who are scheduled to work at least twenty (20) hours per work week as it contributes to full time regular employees. The holiday benefit for regular part-time employees shall be in the same ratio that the regular part-time employee’s actual hours worked bears to the full-time work schedule in the previous calendar quarter where the holiday falls.
Section 2.
A.	A limited duration employee appointed to a position of six (6) months or less shall not participate in any benefits provided by this AGREEMENT except holiday benefits which shall be in the same ratio that the employee's actual hours worked bears to the full-time work schedule, in the previous calendar quarter where the holiday falls.
B.	A limited duration employee whose work schedule is intermittent, non-continuous or irregular in nature shall not participate in any benefits provided by this AGREEMENT.
C.	A limited duration employee appointed to a position that is expected to last more than six (6) months and less than two (2) years working less than the full-time schedule shall not participate in any benefits provided by this AGREEMENT except those working a schedule of twenty (20) hours or more per week shall participate in benefits in the same ratio that his/her actual hours worked bears to the full-time work schedule. The EMPLOYER shall pay, however, the same health insurance premium amounts to employees who are scheduled to work at least twenty (20) hours per work week as it contributes to full-time regular employees. The holiday benefit for a limited duration employee appointed to a position that is expected to last more than six (6) months and less than two (2) years shall be in the same ratio that the employee’s actual hours worked bears to the full-time work schedule in the previous calendar quarter where the holiday falls.
ARTICLE 26	- WORK UNIT VACANCIES
Section 1. Except as otherwise provided in Attachment B, a vacant position which is to be filled by the EMPLOYER will normally be posted for not less than seven (7) calendar days within the department where located. Regular employees within the same class and department may indicate to the EMPLOYER in writing, their interest in being considered for reassignment to fill the vacant position.
Prior to filling the vacancy, the EMPLOYER will give reasonable consideration to the senior qualified regular employee who has requested reassignment to the vacant position.
A.	The vacancy posting shall set forth the class title, salary range, nature and location of the work to be performed, the minimum qualifications, the place and manner of making application and the closing date that applications will be received.
B.	In departments where there is more than one work shift, the position vacancy posting will indicate which shift applies.
C.	The provisions of this Article shall apply to the initial vacancy and up to two sequential vacancies that may be created by reassignment within the department.
D.	Employees who are selected for reassignment under the provisions of this Article will again become eligible for consideration six (6) months following such reassignment.
E.	Departments for the purpose of this Article shall be those established by the EMPLOYER in its organizational structure. A copy of the EMPLOYER's current organizational structure identifying departments shall be furnished to the UNION by the EMPLOYER and updated as changes occur. A current copy of the EMPLOYER's organizational structure identifying departments is located in Attachment B of this AGREEMENT.
F.	Seniority for purposes of this Article shall be as defined in the Article herein titled "Seniority."
G.	The provisions of this Article shall not apply to the following types of vacancies.
1.	Vacancies to be filled by recall from layoff.
2.	Vacancies to be filled by reassignment of an employee whose position has been abolished due to lack of work, lack of funds or other reasons without reference to incompetence, misconduct, or other behavioral considerations.
29 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
3.	Vacancies to be filled by reassignment of an employee for reason of temporary disability or other health-related condition.
ARTICLE 27	- WORK RULES
The EMPLOYER may establish and enforce work rules that are not in conflict with this AGREEMENT. A copy of the EMPLOYER's formally established departmental work rules shall be available on or about the work site and during the work shift of employees subject to such rules. Upon request, such rules shall also be made available to the UNION. Revisions to such work rules will be labeled as new or amended and shall be posted or disseminated in advance of their effective date.
ARTICLE 28	- PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
Section 1.	The EMPLOYER shall determine whether an employee is to be granted an in-range salary rate adjustment on a normal performance review interval established by the EMPLOYER for the employee's class. An employee shall not experience loss of such salary increase because completion of the performance evaluation is delayed through no fault of the employee.
Section 2.	After an evaluation is completed, the employee will be given a copy and provided an opportunity to respond to the evaluation in writing and have that response permanently attached to the evaluation. No changes may be made in the evaluation after the employee has received and signed his/her copy.
Section 3.	When an employee who is eligible for an in-range merit adjustment receives a performance evaluation which results in the employee’s not receiving such increase, he/she may request review of this decision by the appointing authority or his/her designee. Such request must be made to the appointing authority within twenty-four (24) calendar days from the date the employee receives the evaluation. If the decision of the appointing authority does not resolve the matter within thirty (30) calendar days following the employee’s request for review, the matter may be referred to the Director of Human Resources, for review by the Director or his/her designee. Such time limits may be waived by agreement of the parties.
Section 4.	The EMPLOYER shall take into consideration time spent on union business when evaluating the quantity of work performed by the President and Co-Chief Stewards of Local 2822.
Section 5.	Performance - Measures of employee performance obtained through electronic or “line count” monitoring will not be the sole criterion applied in evaluating performance.
ARTICLE 29	- EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE
Section 1.	Tuition reimbursement shall be provided to employees covered by this collective bargaining AGREEMENT under the same terms and conditions, policies and procedures as the rest of Hennepin County and reflecting a countywide pool for funding. See Hennepin County Tuition Reimbursement Policy Frequently Asked Questions
Section 2.	Where courses are required and certified by the appointing authority as essential to current job performance, such appointing authority shall grant 100% reimbursement for tuition, required fees and required study materials.
Section 3.	At the request of an employee, an Individual Development Plan shall be established. Any employee making the request shall be provided with paid time to work with their Supervisor or Human Resources to develop a training plan for career development within Hennepin County. Human Resources will be a source of career information, and postings, in which the employee may have an interest. Time allotted for this activity and the training plan adopted shall be subject to mutual agreement of the Employee and Supervisor.
ARTICLE 30	- FITNESS FOR DUTY
When question exists related to appropriate leave administration or work safety to individuals, co-workers or others, the EMPLOYER may require employees to undergo a medical evaluation that will enable the EMPLOYER to determine the employee’s fitness for performance of his/her duties. When the EMPLOYER requires an evaluation or report from a medical authority, either the employee’s personal or treating authority or the medical authority of the EMPLOYER’s selection, the EMPLOYER shall:
A.	Pay the fee charged for such evaluation or report if such is not covered through the health insurance program made available to employees by the EMPLOYER, and
30 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
B.	Compensate the employee at his/her base pay rate for regularly scheduled work time the employee was unable to work due to obtaining the evaluation if the evaluation result is that the employee is found fully fit to perform his/her work duties and responsibilities.
ARTICLE 31	- MEET AND CONFER
Section 1.	Upon the request of either party, the EMPLOYER and the UNION agree that not more than six (6) UNION
representatives and not more than six (6) EMPLOYER representatives will participate in a Meet and Confer session each month to discuss issues of concern to either or both of the parties.
A.	The parties will meet and confer in regards to health of the workforce issues including but not limited to physical, psychological, ergonomics or public health concerns and safety items which are neither negotiable nor subject to the grievance procedure. (See also Attachment D)
B.	The parties will Meet and Confer in regards to workloads/caseloads issues to identify ideal workload or caseload sizes and methods of achieving or working towards ideal workloads/caseloads. It is specifically understood that actual assigned workloads may differ from ideal workloads. The EMPLOYER agrees that ideal or appropriate workloads/caseloads will be a significant consideration when assessing employee work performance.
C.	The parties will use the Meet and Confer process to establish a forum to address dignity and respect in the workplace on an ongoing basis.
Section 2.	The parties may agree to conduct additional Meet and Confer sessions within individual departments or divisions. The number, frequency, length, scope and size of such meetings will be determined by AGREEMENT.
Section 3.	Upon AGREEMENT of the parties, a Meet and Confer session may include additional representatives from other
employee organizations or other outside parties with information to offer that is relevant to a proposed meet and confer topic.
Section 4.	The parties agree that a specific Meet and Confer session will be scheduled for the purpose of discussing county-
wide planning/change initiatives with County Administration. The Labor/Management meetings between County Administration and AFSCME Business Agents and Local Presidents could be used for this purpose.
Section 5.	Attachment D, entitled Meet and Confer Topics, will be placed at the end of the contract and will serve as a reference list of specific topics the EMPLOYER and the UNION agree to discuss during the term of this AGREEMENT. Each agreed-upon item placed on the list will be dated. The list will include active/ongoing meet and confer topics as well as inactive topics, including dates of inception where possible.
The Attachment D list will be reviewed and updated as needed during future contract negotiations to assist the parties with accountability for the issues that have been listed for meet and confer discussion during the term of a particular AGREEMENT. If the parties agree that a topic placed on the list at an earlier date no longer requires discussion, that topic will be placed on the "incctive list” in Attachment D. However, the inactive list will remain on Attachment D from contract to contract as a historical record.
Section 6.	Nothing in Section 5 regarding Attachment D is intended as a limit upon the parties’ ability to introduce any
mutually agreed upon topic for discussion at any future Meet and Confer session.
ARTICLE 32	- DISCIPLINE
Section 1.	The EMPLOYER will discipline employees in the classified service only for just cause.
Section 2.	Discipline, when administered, will be in one or more of the following forms and normally in the following order:
A.	Oral Reprimand
B.	Written Reprimand
C.	Suspension
D.	Discharge or disciplinary demotion.
31 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 3.	If the EMPLOYER has reason to reprimand any employee, it shall normally not be done in the presence of other employees or the public.
Section 4.	Written reprimands, disciplinary suspensions, disciplinary demotions or discharge of regular employees are appealable up to and through the arbitration step of the grievance procedure contained in this AGREEMENT.
Section 5.	Upon the request of either party, the EMPLOYER and UNION shall make available to each other all information and evidence that will be used to support a written reprimand, suspension or discharge or defense against such action at least seven (7) days prior the Step 2 meeting of the grievance procedure.
Section 6.	Human Resources Employee File
A.	Investigations which do not result in disciplinary actions shall not be entered into the employee's Human Resources employee file. A written record of all disciplinary actions other than oral reprimands shall be entered into the Human Resources employee file. All disciplinary entries in the Human Resources employee file shall normally state the corrective action expected of the employee.
B.	An employee who is reprimanded in writing, suspended, disciplinarily demoted, or discharged shall be furnished with a copy of notice of such disciplinary action.
C.	Upon written request of the employee, a written reprimand shall be removed from the Human Resources employee’s file if no further disciplinary action has been taken against the employee within two (2) years following the date of the reprimand, or if no disciplinary action has been taken against the employee for the same or related offenses within three (3) years following the date of the reprimand.
D.	Employees shall have access to information contained in their Human Resources employee file in accordance with the provisions of the Data Practices Act, as amended.
Section 7.	Union Representation.
Employees will not be questioned concerning an administrative investigation of disciplinary action unless the employee has been given an opportunity to have a union representative present at such questioning. When mutually agreeable, the UNION shall have the right to take up a suspension, demotion, and/or discharge as a grievance at the second step of the grievance procedure, and the matter shall be handled in accordance with this procedure through the arbitration step if deemed necessary.
Section 8.	Disciplinary action shall be taken in a timely manner.
Section 9.	Unclassified employees of the Law Library shall have the same rights under this Article as classified employees.
ARTICLE 33	- EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE
The EMPLOYER shall make available to employees covered by this AGREEMENT the Employee Assistance Program it establishes for County employees and shall provide employees covered by this AGREEMENT with the information distributed to County employees familiarizing them with the program.
ARTICLE 34	- NON-DISCRIMINATION
In accordance with applicable city, state and federal law, all provisions of this AGREEMENT shall be applied equally by the EMPLOYER and the UNION to all employees without discrimination based on race, color, creed, religion, age, sex, disability, marital status, affectional preference, public assistance status, criminal record or national origin. In the event that any of the pertinent antidiscrimination laws are changed during the term of the AGREEMENT to include or exclude a protected class or classes, this AGREEMENT will be applied so as to include or exclude that class or classes within the provisions of this section. In addition, all provisions of this AGREEMENT shall be applied equally by the EMPLOYER and the UNION to all employees without discrimination as to political or organizational affiliation or membership in the UNION.
ARTICLE 35	- SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
This AGREEMENT shall represent the complete agreement between the UNION and EMPLOYER. The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this AGREEMENT each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make requests and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the complete understandings and
32 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this AGREEMENT.
Therefore, the EMPLOYER and the UNION, for the life of this AGREEMENT each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this AGREEMENT or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this AGREEMENT, even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time that they negotiated or signed this AGREEMENT.
ARTICLE 36	- SAVINGS CLAUSE
This AGREEMENT is subject to the laws of the United States, the State of Minnesota, and Hennepin County. In the event any provision of this AGREEMENT shall be held to be contrary to law by a court of competent jurisdiction from whose final judgment or decree no appeal has been taken within the time provided, such provision shall be voided. All other provisions shall continue in full force and effect. Upon written request of either party, the parties shall meet and negotiate on a substitute provision for the voided provision.
ARTICLE 37	- SPECIAL LEAVE WITHOUT PAY
Section 1.	Employees may participate in a Special Leave Without Pay Program as established by the Hennepin County Board of Commissioners. The Special Leave Without Pay Program period is from date of County Board Approval through December 31,2016.
Section 2.	Upon the request of either party, the EMPLOYER and the UNION shall meet and confer on the extension of this Special Leave Without Pay Program each year through 2018.
Section 3.	The EMPLOYER's policy on use of Special Leave Without Pay (SLWOP) provides that employees may use SLWOP in cases where they would otherwise not take the leave. The EMPLOYER will therefore interpret its policy on SLWOP to allow SLWOP for Union Leave and Parenting Leave in cases where the employee would not otherwise take the leave.
ARTICLE 38	- SALARY RATES
Section 1.	Employees covered by this AGREEMENT as follows shall be compensated for each hour of service in accordance with the following schedule and provisions:
Effective December27,2015, the following monthly/hourly rates shall apply:
MONTHLY	HOURLY
Classification	Minimum	Maximum	Minimum	Maximum
Account Clerk, Principal	$3,133	$4,523	$18.08	$26.09
Clerk	$2,665	$2,665	$15.38	$15.38
Credit/Collections Representative	$2,677	$3,827	$15.45	$22.08
IT Assistant Operations Analyst	$2,711	$4,105	$15.64	$23.68
Legal Secretary	$2,791	$4,356	$16.10	$25.13
Librarian, Associate	$2,883	$4,219	$16.63	$24.34
MHP Services Representative	$2,675	$4,200	$15.43	$24.23
Office Specialist I	$2,654	$3,145	$15.31	$18.15
Office Specialist II	$2,654	$3,324	$15.31	$19.18
Office Specialist III	$2,681	$3,735	$15.47	$21.55
Office Specialist, Principal	$2,794	$4,118	$16.12	$23.76
Production Publishing Operator	$2,684	$3,008	$15.48	$17.36
Production Publishing Operator, Principal	$2,841	$4,087	$16.39	$23.58
Production Publishing Operator, Senior	$2,645	$3,390	$15.26	$19.56
Public Safety Records Clerk	$2,744	$4,230	$15.83	$24.40
Public Service Assistant	$2,654	$3,021	$15.31	$17.43
Real Estate and Tax Specialist I	$2,684	$3,918	$15.48	$22.60
33 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Real Estate and Tax Specialist II	$2,927	$4,379	$16.88	$25.26
Real Estate and Tax Specialist III	$3,218	$4,817	$18.57	$27.79
Service Center Representative	$2,647	$3,713	$15.27	$21.42
Service Center Representative, Senior	$2,787	$4,259	$16.08	$24.57
Sheriffs Records Coordinator	$3,188	$4,689	$18.39	$27.05
Effective December25,2016, the following hourly/monthly rates shall apply:				
	MONTHLY			HOURLY
Classification	Minimum	Maximum	Minimum	Maximum
Account Clerk, Principal	$3,178	$4,634	$18.34	$26.74
Clerk	$2,732	$2,732	$15.76	$15.76
Credit/Collections Representative	$2,722	$3,920	$15.71	$22.62
IT Assistant Operations Analyst	$2,756	$4,206	$15.90	$24.26
Legal Secretary	$2,836	$4,463	$16.36	$25.75
Librarian, Associate	$2,928	$4,323	$16.89	$24.94
MHP Services Representative	$2,720	$4,303	$15.69	$24.82
Office Specialist I	$2,699	$3,222	$15.57	$18.59
Office Specialist II	$2,699	$3,405	$15.57	$19.65
Office Specialist III	$2,726	$3,826	$15.73	$22.08
Office Specialist, Principal	$2,839	$4,219	$16.38	$24.34
Production Publishing Operator	$2,729	$3,082	$15.74	$17.78
Production Publishing Operator, Principal	$2,886	$4,187	$16.65	$24.16
Production Publishing Operator, Senior	$2,690	$3,473	$15.52	$20.04
Public Safety Records Clerk	$2,789	$4,334	$16.09	$25.00
Public Service Assistant	$2,699	$3,094	$15.57	$17.85
Real Estate and Tax Specialist I	$2,729	$4,014	$15.74	$23.16
Real Estate and Tax Specialist II	$2,972	$4,487	$17.14	$25.89
Real Estate and Tax Specialist III	$3,265	$4,936	$18.84	$28.48
Service Center Representative	$2,692	$3,804	$15.53	$21.94
Service Center Representative, Senior	$2,832	$4,364	$16.34	$25.18
Sheriffs Records Coordinator	$3,234	$4,804	$18.66	$27.72
Effective January 7,2018, the following hourly/monthly rates shall apply:				
	MONTHLY			HOURLY
Classification	Minimum	Maximum	Minimum	Maximum
Account Clerk, Principal	$3,256	$4,748	$18.79	$27.39
Clerk	$2,800	$2,800	$16.15	$16.15
Credit/Collections Representative	$2,798	$4,017	$16.15	$23.17
IT Assistant Operations Analyst	$2,832	$4,309	$16.34	$24.86
Legal Secretary	$2,912	$4,573	$16.80	$26.38
Librarian, Associate	$3,004	$4,430	$17.33	$25.56
MHP Services Representative	$2,796	$4,409	$16.13	$25.44
Office Specialist I	$2,775	$3,301	$16.01	$19.04
Office Specialist II	$2,775	$3,489	$16.01	$20.13
Office Specialist III	$2,802	$3,920	$16.17	$22.62
Office Specialist, Principal	$2,916	$4,323	$16.82	$24.94
Production Publishing Operator	$2,805	$3,158	$16.18	$18.22
Production Publishing Operator, Principal	$2,963	$4,290	$17.09	$24.75
Production Publishing Operator, Senior	$2,766	$3,558	$15.96	$20.53
34 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Public Safety Records Clerk	$2,866	$4,440	$16.53	$25.62
Public Service Assistant	$2,775	$3,171	$16.01	$18.29
Real Estate and Tax Specialist I	$2,805	$4,113	$16.18	$23.73
Real Estate and Tax Specialist II	$3,048	$4,597	$17.58	$26.52
Real Estate and Tax Specialist III	$3,345	$5,058	$19.30	$29.18
Service Center Representative	$2,768	$3,897	$15.97	$22.48
Service Center Representative, Senior	$2,908	$4,471	$16.78	$25.80
Sheriffs Records Coordinator	$3,314	$4,923	$19.12	$28.40
Section 2.	The EMPLOYER shall determine the rate of compensation for each employee within the established salary range for their class based upon tenure and quality of performance provided that the EMPLOYER shall have the discretion to grant compensation in excess of the maximum rates shown when the EMPLOYER determines that the performance of any employee warrants any such additional compensation.
Section 3.	Any salary adjustment provided for in this AGREEMENT shall commence on the beginning of the first payroll period after which the employee(s) becomes qualified and authorized to receive the adjustment.
Section 4. In 2016, the EMPLOYER shall pay to the UNION or its designee $.35'hour for each regular hour spent on compensated payroll status by members of the bargaining unit including hours paid as severance in accordance with the provisions of Article 23. Such employer payment shall be remitted quarterly to the UNION or its designee. Such payment shall be used to provide a dental insurance plan arranged and administered by the UNION. In 2017 the amount will be $.37 and in 2018 the amount will be $.39.
Section 5. At the discretion of the EMPLOYER and in the event the EMPLOYER encounters difficulty with respect to attraction and'or retention of qualified staff in a particular job classification, the parties by mutual agreement, may negotiate a modified salary schedule or other compensation matters for such classification.
ARTICLE 39	- AUTOMOBILE TRAVEL EXPENSES
Section 1.	When employees are required by the EMPLOYER to use their private automobiles while engaged in County business, the employee is entitled to reimbursement at the rate established by the IRS for actual mileage incurred. In the unlikely event the IRS does not provide advance notice of a rate change, the EMPLOYER shall execute such change within two payroll periods.
Section 2.	Reimbursement shall be made for reasonable parking expenses actually incurred by the employee but not to exceed the levels outlined in the County's Administrative Manual. Parking reimbursement shall be in accordance with the policy stated in the County Administrator's memorandum of January 3, 1995. Parking reimbursement rates may be increased by action of the County Administrator.
Section 3.	If an employee is requested by the EMPLOYER to have his'her personal automobile available for business use on an ongoing basis, the employee shall be eligible for "car available" reimbursement as provided for in the County's Administrative Manual.
Section 4.	To obtain reimbursement the employee shall submit a claim at the end of each calendar month on a form prescribed by the EMPLOYER.
ARTICLE 40	- RIGHT OF CONTRACTING SERVICES
Section 1	Nothing in this AGREEMENT shall prohibit or restrict the right of the EMPLOYER from contracting with vendors or others for materials or services.
Section 2.	In the event the EMPLOYER finds it necessary to subcontract out work now being performed by existing employees that will result in the layoff of employees, the UNION will be notified no less than ninety (90) calendar days in advance of the date the employees will be laid off as a result of the decision to subcontract. During the ninety (90) day period, the EMPLOYER will meet with the UNION and discuss ways and means of minimizing any impact subcontracting may have on employees.
35 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
In the event that existing employees are laid off as a result of the EMPLOYER engaging in a contract for service, the EMPLOYER agrees to make reasonable effort to relocate such employees in other positions for which they are qualified.
ARTICLE 41	- HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section 1.	An employee concerned about the design or structure of his/her work station (chair, keyboard height, lighting, etc.) may, with or without the UNION, petition his/her supervisor for an investigation of the work station to determine compliance with the Hennepin County Ergonomics Policy. If a question arises concerning the effect of the work station on the employee's health or safety, the supervisor may require an examination and report by a physician and/or other qualified Health and Safety professionals. If the supervisor's investigation is not completed within a reasonable time, or if the results of the investigation are not satisfactory to the employee, the employee and the UNION may petition the Department Head in writing to review the matter. If the Department Head does not complete a review within a reasonable period of time, or if the results of the review are not satisfactory to the employee and the UNION, the employee and the UNION may forward the matter in writing to the Hennepin County Environmental Health and Safety Ombudsperson for final review and appropriate action.
Section 2.	One representative appointed by AFSCME Council #5 shall have an opportunity to participate on the EMPLOYER's Environmental Health and Safety Committee. In addition, AFSCME Council #5 shall appoint one representative to each department’s Health and Safety team. Such representative shall be an employee of the respective department.
Section 3.	The Deputy County Administrator shall be designated ombudsperson for matters relating to Environmental Health and Safety.
ARTICLE 42	- TRAINEES
Section 1.	An “Internal” Trainee shall be an employee who holds a regular position with Hennepin County. An “Internal” Trainee will maintain all seniority, benefit levels and the right to return to a position in their prior class subject to seniority rights and layoff provision. “Internal” Trainees will be paid at the entry-level trainee salary of the class for which they are training, or at their existing salary, whichever is greater.
Section 2.	Each Trainee program shall specify the maximum length of time a trainee may participate in the program.
Section 3.	“External” Trainees are persons hired into a trainee program who do not currently hold a regular position within Hennepin County. “External” Trainees shall generally earn up to 90% of the salary of the position for which they are training, unless a different wage has been negotiated with the UNION.
Section 4.	“External” Trainees* to be employed in a program six (6) months or longer in duration and who work half-time or more shall be eligible for Health and Life Insurance benefits unless a separate different plan has been negotiated with the UNION.
Section 5.	“External” Trainees shall receive the same holiday pay benefit as regular employees.
Section 6.	Failure to meet the standards of the trainee program shall be considered just cause for termination of employment for
“External” Trainees and just cause for termination from the trainee program for “Internal” Trainees.
Section 7.	This Article shall apply to Trainees hired on or after January 2, 2000.
* “Welfare to Work” program trainees may waive coverage in favor of health care benefits provided under Public Assistance Programs.
ARTICLE 43	- SHERIFF’S CIVILIAN UNIFORM
Section 1.	The EMPLOYER will provide newly hired civilian employees with civilian uniform clothing items during their first year of employment. The initial items provided to each employee are:
Five (5) authorized black or tan polo shirts with the HCSO logo (long and/or short sleeve).
One (1) authorized black knit cardigan with the HCSO logo.
36 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Section 2.	The EMPLOYER will provide a clothing allowance of $150.00 per year. Civilian employees may use the clothing allowance to purchase any authorized civilian uniform item s.
Section 3.	Each civilian employee, after having completed one (1) full year of service, is eligible for a uniform clothing allowance in an amount not to exceed $150.00. The civilian uniform is worn only when performing official duties as directed by the EMPLOYER or upon such special occasions as the EMPLOYER may authorize. Employees shall wear and maintain the uniform as specified by the EMPLOYER. Upon termination of employment, all uniform clothing must be returned to the EMPLOYER.
The uniform allowance described above shall be paid in a lump sum in January of each contract year. Because new employees are not eligible for the uniform allowance in their first year of employment, they shall receive their first uniform allowance as a pro-rated portion of the yearly allowance following the completion of their first full year of service. The pro-rated portion shall be 1/12 of the yearly allowance multiplied by the number of full months of service from the date of the one year anniversary through December of that year.
Section 4.	Any uniform items found by supervisory inspection to be worn out or damaged must be turned in to the EMPLOYER.
Section 5.	Further information regarding civilian uniforms is posted on the Sheriff’s Office internal web site.
ARTICLE 44	- EFFECTIVE DATES
Except as otherwise provided, all provisions of this AGREEMENT, shall be effective the beginning of the first payroll period following its execution.
ARTICLE 45	- TERM OF AGREEMENT
This AGREEMENT shall be in full force and effect from January 1, 2016, through December 31,2018and shall be automatically renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party shall notify the other, in writing, by June 1 prior to the anniversary date that it desires to modify or terminate this AGREEMENT. In witness thereof the parties have caused this AGREEMENT to be executed this 15th day of December 2015.
37 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
ATTACHMENT A - Hennepin County Map
38 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
ATTACHMENT B
As Of November 2015
The current list of Hennepin Departments is as follows:
Administration
Budget and Finance
Center for Innovation & Excellence
Communications
Community Corrections & Rehabilitation
Community Works
County Assessor
County Attorney’s Office
Emergency Management
Environment and Energy
Examiner of Titles
Facility Services
Hennepin Health
Human Services and Public Health
Human Resources
Information Technology
Internal Audit
Intergovernmental Relations
Labor Relations
Library
Medical Examiner
Metropolitan Health Plan
NorthPoint Health & Wellness
Planning, Policy & Land Management
Public Defender’s Office
Public Health
Public Works
Public Works Management & Support
Resident & Real Estate Services
Sheriff’s Office
Transportation Roads & Bridges
Departments are subject to change by the EMPLOYER as changes in its organization structure occur.
For purposes of layoff and recall from layoff (Article 6) and work unit vacancies (Article 26), for Local 34 and Local 2822 only, the Human Services and Public Health Department, Community Corrections & Rehabilitation and North Point shall be considered one “Super Department”.
39 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
ATTACHMENT C
FUNERAL LEAVE ADMINISTRATION UNDER THE AFSCME CONTRACT
The "Funeral Leave" article (Article 16) of the labor agreement between Hennepin County and AFSCME Council #5 provides that employees can receive paid leave to make necessary funeral arrangements and to attend funeral services in the event of a death in the employee's "immediate family." Article 16 defines "immediate family" for this purpose as comprising the following family members:
"...spouse, parent, step-parent, parent-in-law, children, stepchildren, brothers, brothers-in-law, sisters, sisters-in-law, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, grandparents, grandparents-in-law grandchildren, or person regarded as a member of the employee's immediate family.'' (Emphasis added.)
The bolded part of the provision cited above first appeared in the 1994-95 labor agreement. The intent of this new provision was to recognize "non-traditional" family relationships that employees might have with persons who do not meet the literal definitions enumerated above, but who fulfill the same roles for the employee. For example, the funeral of an employee's domestic partner would qualify for paid leave under this language, if the domestic partner's relationship to an unmarried employee is comparable to that of a married employee's spouse. Similarly, such a domestic partner's parents would be analogous to parents-in-law, and the domestic partner's children would be analogous to the employee's children or stepchildren. Another type of qualifying relationship could be the parent of the employee's children (if the parents are not married).
Because the criteria relate to the definition of "immediate family" found in the labor agreement, application of the term must be consistent with the definition found in the agreement. An employee's qualifying "non-traditional" family relationship should virtually be the equivalent of a qualifying "traditional" relationship. There should be a history to the relationship that establishes such equivalency.
It would be inappropriate, for example, for an employee to decide that any funeral qualifies for paid leave under this article, because all humanity is a "family." It would also be inconsistent with the intent of the language for the employee to decide that a friend is the equivalent of a brother or sister (although a friend might qualify as a "brother" if he and the employee grew up together in the same household). Friendship alone is not a defining characteristic of either traditional or nontraditional relationships.
40 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
ATTACHMENT D
MEET AND CONFER TOPICS
Active:
1.	Cost and implications regarding a change of employee work location with short notice
2.	Library restructure and potential job class changes and implications
3.	Library meet and confer to discuss issues as they arise regarding working out of class, workflow, ergonomics,
off-desk time and the new business model.
4.	Clerical career ladders
5.	Ergonomic issues related to HSPHD Regionalization
6.	HSPHD work culture
7.	Performance results
8.	Regional transfers
9.	Worksite assignment and notification process
10.	Use of limited duration employees discussion with HR Director
11.	Best practices for in-charge pay.
12.	ROWE
13.	Health Insurance (current employees and during potential lay-off’s)
14.	Pay equity
15.	Sick leave
16.	Health care cost containment
17.	Budget impacts
18.	Technology changes and resulting impact
19.	Parenting leave policies and/or child care and elder care concerns
20.	Work week schedules
21.	Impact of possible legislation on workplace polices, conditions of employment or as needed by a change in law relative to the work of the County.
22.	Impact of possible legislation involving the death penalty and/or Roe v. Wade.
23.	Family Medical Leave Act
24.	Environmental Health and Safety
25.	ADA/Workers Compensation
26.	Job class flexibility/service integration and productivity (this could include the merging of certain job classes during the life of this agreement)
27.	Budget impacts
28.	Employee automobile travel expense reimbursement procedures
29.	Adequate resources, supplies and tools to support workers in a mobile and regionalized work environment for all staff at all work sites including but not limited to sanitizing wipes; paper towels; wrist rests; monitors; forms; MFD’s; phones; etc.
30.	Respectful Workplace Internal Audit Team, process and utilization
31.	Workloads and performance standards for employees who provide services to clients who use sign language or languages other than English. These discussions shall include the topic of adjusting workload or performance standards to accommodate any difficulties unique to this type of work.
32.	Workforce Development
33.	Workforce Development - County commits to a Meet and Confer process to begin early in 2016 to discuss HSR onboarding. The Asst. County Administrator will attend the first meeting. As part of this process, the parties will discuss the viability of a buddy-system to augment the onboarding system. The Union will provide input on potential buddies and the County understands that a buddy system, if agreed to, would need to result is some reduction of total workload for the assigned buddies. Additionally, there will be quarterly meet and confers with the larger Workforce Development team for the purpose of sharing information and progress.
Inactive:
1.	Clerical work related injuries
2.	Vacation Donation Pilot Program
41 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Letter of Understanding Regarding Legislative Transfer of Position
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
AFSCME COUNCIL 14 AND HENNEPIN COUNTY
Hennepin County and AFSCME Council 14 agree to the following related to the letter of November 2, 1995, to Rita During and Steve Marincel from Rolland Toenges regarding the legislative transfer of positions:
1.	The terms of this letter will not apply to the employees of Hennepin County District Court in the following job classifications when the District Court employees are transferred to the State of Minnesota on or about July 1, 2003:
Court Clerk	Senior Court Clerk
Court Specialist	Judicial Clerk
Forensic Psychologist	Sr. Microfilmer
Therefore, the employees in the above listed job classifications will not have layoff rights as stated in Article 6 Seniority of the labor agreement.
2.	The terms of this letter will apply to all other bargaining unit employees of Hennepin County District Court in job classifications as of July 1, 2002 where these job classifications are used in other County departments.
3.	On or after July 1, 2002, employees newly hired to Hennepin County District Court in the job classifications listed in paragraph 2 above will not have layoff rights as stated in Article 6 Seniority of the labor agreement.
4.	Employees in job classifications listed in paragraph 2 above with layoff rights will identify their interest in remaining a County employee by December 31, 2002. Failure of an employee to notify the County of their interest in remaining a County employee by that date will result in the employee terminating any layoff rights as stated in Article 6 Seniority of the labor agreements.
5.	For those employees in paragraph 2 who have identified an interest in remaining a County employee, once an offer of employment is made to these employees, regardless of whether or not the offer is accepted, layoff rights as stated in Article 6 Seniority of the labor agreement are terminated for said employee.
6.	The parties agree to Meet and Confer regarding this process.
Steve Marincel
for AFSCME Council 14
Signed: December 14, 2001
William Peters for Hennepin County
42 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Letter of Understanding Classification Study
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN HENNEPIN COUNTY AND
AFSCME COUNCIL #14
LOCALS 34, 552, 977, 1719, 2822, 2938
Hennepin County understands AFSCME’s concern that classification studies requested by employees it represents be processed in a timely manner. Further, that AFSCME has an interest in periodically knowing the status of such studies.
In order to provide AFSCME with information regarding the status of particular classification studies, Hennepin County agrees to meet and confer once each calendar quarter for this purpose. Upon making a request for such meet and confer sessions AFSCME agrees to identify the particular classification studies of interest at least two weeks in advance of the meet and confer sessions. Such advance notice will enable Hennepin County to arrange for the presence of staff who possess the knowledge sought by AFSCME.
Roland C. Toenges	Cynthia M. Nelson
for Hennepin County	for AFSCME Council 14
Date Signed:
December 12, 1997
43 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Clarification of Health Insurance Article
December 1, 1995
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:
This letter is to clarify the interpretation of Section 7 of Article 22, Insurance, contained in the collectively bargained agreement between Hennepin County and AFSCME Council 14 for the period January 1996 through December 1997.
The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that there is a mutual duty to bargain regarding a change in the level of health insurance benefits unless such change occurs as a result of a change in insurance carriers or self insurance.
The parties further acknowledge that, pursuant to existing Minnesota Statutes, the aggregate level of benefits provided by a group insurance contract may not be reduced unless the parties to the collective bargaining agreement agree to the reduction in benefits. Under existing statutes, therefore, if a change in insurance carriers or self insurance will result in a reduction in the aggregate level of benefits for employees, such change may not occur without agreement of the parties to the collective bargaining agreement.
Signed by:
John Shabatura
for HENNEPIN COUNTY
Date Signed
December 14, 1995
Stephen Marincel for AFSCME Council 14
Date Signed
December 14, 1995
44 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Transfer to Another Jurisdiction Letter
November 15, 2005
Steve Marincel
AFSCME Council 5
300 Hardman Ave. S., Suite 2
South St. Paul, MN 55075-2469
Dear Mr. Marincel:
This letter modifies the letter dated November 2, 1995 from Rolland Toenges and is intended to clarify the procedures which would be followed in the event that the Minnesota Legislature transfers positions occupied by bargaining unit employees to the State of Minnesota or to another political subdivision.
If the legislature were to mandate such a transfer of positions (or of bargaining unit work), Hennepin County would find itself confronted with a lack of work for employees, and/or a lack of funds. This would be a potential layoff situation as defined by Article 3 of the labor agreement. The procedures set forth in Article 6, Section 4, would therefore apply.
This means that such layoffs (or transfers to another jurisdiction) would take place in order of inverse seniority as provided in the contract. Senior employees would be able to exercise seniority rights over less senior employees, subject to the conditions and limitations found in the labor agreement, except that layoff rights granted under this letter will terminate two years after the employee is transferred to the new jurisdiction or for a period equal to an employee’s length of employment with Hennepin County, whichever is lesser.
The only additional qualifications is that if the legislation mandating the transfer of positions specifically identifies the employees to be transferred, the County would be required to follow the provisions of the law. This requirement is found in both the labor agreement (Article 36) and the Public Employment Labor Relations Act (M.S. 179A.20, Subd. 2).
Sincerely,
William P. Peters
Labor Relations Director
45 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Clarification of Seniority Letter
March 8, 1994
Mr. Steve Marincel
Business Representative
AFSCME Council #14
267 Lafayette Frontage Road South
St Paul, MN 55107-1683
Dear Mr. Marincel:
The purpose of this letter is to clarify how the parties shall interpret and administer Article 6, Seniority, Section 9 of our Clerical and Related Labor Agreement. Section 9 reads as follows:
"Employees on layoff will be recalled to fill vacancies in other classes and departments for which qualified, provided they may not exercise seniority rights to create such vacancies. Such employees may waive the recall if the salary rate offered by the EMPLOYER for the position to which recalled is more than twenty (20%) percent below the salary rate of the employee when laid off. The name of an employee so recalled will remain on the layoff list for the class from which laid off, subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in this AGREEMENT."
An employee laid off pursuant to Article 6, Section 4 will be recalled via Section 9 to fill vacancies in other classes and departments for which qualified. The employee must accept such recall unless the pay for the job class to which he/she is recalled is more than 20% below that of the job class from which laid off.
The Employer will first recall such laid off employees to vacancies covered by the Clerical and Related Bargaining Unit. If no vacancy is available within the bargaining unit, the Employer will recall such employees to a vacancy outside the bargaining unit, if available.
If the vacancy to which an employee is recalled via Section 9 is in a different class than that from which he/she was laid off (either within bargaining unit or outside bargaining unit), the employee will remain on a layoff list for the job class and bargaining unit from which laid off. When a vacancy occurs anywhere in the bargaining unit in the job class from which the employee was laid off, the employee shall be recalled to fill such vacancy subject to seniority provisions. Upon such recall, the employee will be removed from the layoff list.
If after recalling an employee to a vacancy in a different job class from which laid off (via Section 9), a vacancy becomes available in the job class from which the employee was laid off, but such vacancy is outside the bargaining unit, it shall be the Employer's option to assign the employee to such vacancy. If the employee is so assigned, he/she shall remain on a layoff list for the job class from which laid off in the bargaining unit.
If this interpretation is consistent with your understanding of Article 6, Section 9, please so signify by signing below.
Sincerely,
William P. Peters
Labor Relations Representative
Signed by:
Steve Marincel
AFSCME Council #14
46 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Memorandum Of Understanding - Military Reservists Benefits
Improved Benefits for Military Reservists Called to Active Duty
The undersigned have agreed to modify the terms of our labor agreement so as to apply the attached Improved Benefits for Military Reservists Program to all members of the bargaining unit who qualify under the specific terms of such program.
Signed on October 8, 2003
William P. Peters
Labor Relations Director For Hennepin County
Signed on October 14, 2003
Stephen Marincel
Union Business Representative
For AFSCME Council 5, Local 2822
As allowed by Minnesota State law (M.S. 471.975), the County Board, though Resolution No. 03-232R1, has authorized two improved benefits for employees who have been called to active duty on or after May 29, 2003.
SALARY DIFFERENTIAL
Employees called to active military duty on or after May 29, 2003 are eligible to receive the difference between their County salary and basic military pay. The differential is payable if the employee’s basic military pay is less than what he/she would have received in regular County salary. The following conditions apply.
1.	Salary differential is available for military service on or after May 29, 2003.
2.	County salary is based on daily scheduled work hours for the day(s) of military leave taken. It does not include any miscellaneous salary differentials, such as shift differential.
3.	Any salary differential payment will be paid in a lump sum, subject to the County’s standard lump-sum tax withholding rate, and it will include PERA contributions. The payment will be separate from any regular paycheck the employee receives during his/her absence.
4.	Basic military pay does not include the following: basic combat training, advanced individual training, annual training, periodic inactive duty training, voluntary active service not legally required, or service performed under M.S.190.08 (Subd. 3).
5.	The employee, or his/her representative, must request to be paid this salary differential, and supply the necessary military pay records.
EXTENDED EMPLOYER-PAID HEALTH COVERAGE
Employees called to active duty on or after May 29, 2003 are eligible to continue their County-sponsored health coverage—with a County contribution toward either single or family coverage as though they are actively working—for up to four years.
General questions regarding the pay differential may be directed to OBF Payroll@hennepin.us (telephone 612-348-3251). Other questions may be directed to the Benefits Unit at HR.Benefits@hennepin.us (telephone 612-348-3530).
47 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Minneapolis Public Library (MPL) & Hennepin County Library (HCL)
LETTER OF AGREEMENT HENNEPIN COUNTY AND
AFSCME COUNCIL 5
May 16, 2007
Upon passage of legislation to enable the merger of the Minneapolis Public Library (MPL) and the Hennepin County Library (HCL) systems, certain implementation issues must be addressed. Accordingly, the undersigned have agreed that Hennepin County representatives and representatives from AFSCME Council 5 will:
a.	Facilitate the implementation of any agreement entered into between MPL and the exclusive representatives which represent MPL employees related to the merger, including issues of pay.Jt is understood that Hennepin County will not contribute toward the funding of such MPL agreement(s), but rather will assist in implementing such agreement(s).
b.	Recognize that AFSCME, for this merger process only, may represent MPL employees in the job classification study process, as provided in the Hennepin County Human Resources Rules.
The above provision is not precedent setting.
c.	Address other implementation issues related to the MPL/HCL merger.
d.	Affix this Letter of Agreement to the Local 2822 and Local 2864 labor agreements.
William P. Peters Labor Relations Director Hennepin County
Signed
May 16, 2007
Stephen Marincel Business Agent AFSCME Council 5
Jeffrey Dains Business Agent
AFSCME Council 5
Signed
June 7, 2007
48 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Depletion of Leave Hour Balances
Memorandum of Understanding Between
Hennepin County And
AFSCME Council 5
Clerical Unit Social Services Unit Professional Unit Legal Unit Essential Legal Unit Probation/Parole Unit Adult Corrections Unit
September 16, 2009
The undersigned hereby agree that the terms of our 2008 - 2009 labor agreements and the terms of any successor agreements entered into for calendar years 2010 and 2011 shall be interpreted to be consistent with the terms of the attached Board Action Request (09 - 0380), which provides the Hennepin County Administrator the authority, during a declared emergency, to allow employees who have depleted leave hour balances to accrue a negative vacation/sick leave/PTO balance.
For the County
William P. Peters
Date Signed
September 29, 2009
For the Union Steve Marincel Jeff Dains Matt Nelson
Date Signed October 15, 2009
49 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Board Action Request ( 09-0380 )
(08/17/2009 - Forwarded from County Administration by Booth Melissa with a status of Addendum )
Originating Department: Human Resources
Immediate Approval? No
Item:
Authorization to County Administrator during a declared emergency to allow employees with depleted leave hour balances to accrue a negative vacation/sick leave/PTO balance
Board Action Request
BE IT RESOLVED, that the County Administrator be granted the authority to allow employees with insufficient paid leave hour balances to accrue a negative vacation/sick leave/PTO balance not to exceed 160 hours, under circumstances requiring employees to be off work due to a declared emergency; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Administrator be granted the authority to negotiate these provisions as they apply to union employees.
Background:
Policy provides that Hennepin County may close or reduce services if the health, safety, and/or security of county employees and clients are threatened. The County Administrator or his/her designee, in consultation with the County Board Chair if available and/or majority of the Board members, is responsible for initiating closing procedures and release of employees. Released employees may utilize vacation, sick leave, paid time off, compensatory time, or make up the time in accordance with provisions of Human Resources Rules or labor agreements.
A focus in recent planning discussions on pandemic influenza has been on administrative issues in dealing with high employee absentee rates due to employee or family members’ illness, school or day care closings, limited public transportation, etc. Because these absences may be for extended periods of time, flexibility is important to help employees manage as they could potentially use all accumulated sick leave, vacation, paid time off, compensatory time, etc.
Whether due to a pandemic influenza or other declared emergency, it is requested that the County Administrator be authorized to allow employees who have depleted their paid leave balances to accrue a negative vacation/sick leave/PTO balance up to 160 hours.
Prior to accruing a negative balance, employees must execute a consent form accepting the two conditions of this allowance: 1) that upon employee return to work, vacation/sick leave/PTO hours accumulated will first be used to restore any negative leave hour balance - once the negative leave hours have been restored, the employee may again use paid leave hours accumulated; and 2) that if the employee leaves Hennepin County service before restoring a negative leave hour balance, compensation equal to unrestored leave hours owed the county will be deducted from their final paycheck(s) .
50 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Hennepin County, Minnesota
RESOLUTION NO. 09-0380
[2009]
The following Resolution was offered by Budget & Capital Investment Committee:
BE IT RESOLVED, that the County Administrator be granted the authority to allow employees with insufficient paid leave hour balances to accrue a negative vacation/sick leave/PTO balance not to exceed 160 hours, under circumstances requiring employees to be off work due to a declared emergency; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the County Administrator be granted the authority to negotiate these provisions as they apply to union employees.
The question was on the adoption of the resolution and there were 7 YEAS and 0 NAYS as follows:
County of Hennepin
Board of County Commissioners	YEAS	NAYS	ABSTAIN	ABSENT
Mike Opat	X			
Mark Stenglein	X			
Gail Dorfman	X			
Peter McLaughlin	X			
Randy Johnson	X			
Jan Callison	X			
Jeff Johnson	X			
RESOLUTION ADOPTED ON 8/25/2009
51 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Board Action Request ( 09-0339 )
(07/14/2009 - Forwarded from County Administration by Booth, Melissa with a status of Communication )
Originating Department: Human Resources
Immediate Approval? No
Item:
Provide PERA-covered retirees, participating in the Coordinated and Basic Plans, returning to public employment through PERA’s Phased Retirement Option, continued eligibility in the County’s early retiree health insurance program (ERHIP).
Board Action Request
BE IT RESOLVED, that in support of Board Action Request 09-0097, the county continue to provide eligibility for non-organized PERA covered retirees employed in a Phased Retirement Option in the County’s early retiree health insurance program (ERHIP).
Background:
Originally established in 1967 by the Hennepin County Board of Commissioners, and most recently amended in 2007, County policy is to contribute toward the health plan premium of "early" retirees meeting specified age and/or length of service requirements. A retiree is eligible for the early retiree health insurance program (ERHIP) if one of the following requirements is met:
REQUIREMENT #1
Age at time
of Retirement
at least 55 but less than 62
at least 62 but less than 63
at least 63 but less than 64
at least 64 but less than 65
Year of Full Time Equivalent County Service 20 15 14 13
= Non-continuous work hours
41,600
31,200
29,120
27,040
REQUIREMENT #2
The retiree at the time of his/her retirement qualifies for and applies for a full, unreduced retirement annuity (other than a deferred annuity), based on a minimum of 10 years of Hennepin County service, from an approved public service retirement program.
REQUIREMENT #3
The retiree at the time of his/her retirement qualifies for and applies for a retirement annuity (other than a deferred annuity) from an approved public service retirement program with at least 25 years of covered service, at least 10 of which must have been with Hennepin County.
If the retiree meets one of these requirements, the County contributes towards the cost of the coverage, until the end of the month in which the retiree reaches age 65, as though the retiree is actively working with employee-only health plan coverage.
Recent changes to the County’s ERHIP have limited eligibility: Resolution 06-12-546R1 limited participation in ERHIP for nonorganized employees to those hired prior to January 1, 2007.
52 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
In March 2009, the County Board supported state legislation by approving Board Action Request 09-0097. This action allows PERA-covered public employees, participating in the Coordinated and Basic plans who are at least age 62 and have 5 years of service, to retire and receive their retirement annuity and simultaneously continue or return to covered employment to work at least twenty-five percent (25%) less than their previously scheduled work hours without contributing to PERA and without the current rehire and earnings limitations.
The legislation was enacted by Hennepin County because it is anticipated to provide an avenue for the county to promote - and for retirement eligible employees to consider - phased retirement which, in turn, will allow employees to receive their retirement pension while at the same time continuing to provide service and the benefit of their experience to the County.
As a result of Resolution 06-12-546R1, PERA-covered retirees returning to public employment in a non-organized position under the Phased Retirement Option would no longer be eligible for the County’s ERHIP. In addition, employees participating in the Phased Retirement Option would lose ERHIP eligibility if schedule hours were reduced below 40 per pay period.
It is recommended that the Hennepin County Board of Commissioners - to promote the enactment of the state legislation - provide continued ERHIP eligibility to non-organized PERA-covered retirees working under PERA’s Phased Retirement program.
53 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Hennepin County, Minnesota
RESOLUTION NO. 09-0339
[2009]
The following Resolution was offered by Commissioner Randy Johnson and seconded by Commissioner Stenglein:
BE IT RESOLVED, that in support of Board Action Request 09-0097, the county continue to provide eligibility for non-organized PERA-covered retirees employed in a Phased Retirement Option in the County’s early retiree health insurance program (ERHIP).
The question was on the adoption of the resolution and there were 7 YEAS and 0 NAYS, as follows:
The question was on the adoption of the resolution and there were 7 YEAS and 0 NAYS as follows:
County of Hennepin
Board of County Commissioners	YEAS	NAYS	ABSTAIN	ABSENT
Mike Opat	X			
Mark Stenglein	X			
Gail Dorfman	X			
Peter McLaughlin	X			
Randy Johnson	X			
Jan Callison	X			
Jeff Johnson	X			
RESOLUTION ADOPTED ON 8/11/2009
54 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Wage Steps & Health Insurance Plan Design
December 12, 2011
Mr. Matt Nelson
Mr. Jeff Dains
Mr. Mark Baker
Field Agents
AFSCME Council 5
300 Hardman Avenue S.
South St. Paul, Minnesota 55075
RE: Wage Steps and Health Insurance Plan Design
Dear Messrs. Nelson, Dains, and Baker:
In negotiations for our 2012 - 2013 labor agreement with Locals 34, 2822, 2864, 1719, 552 and 2938 (Legal and Essential Legal), we agreed that the Wage Steps and the Health Insurance Plan Design would not be included in the labor agreement. Instead, the Employer will provide a link to such information via the Labor Relations Website.
2013 Health Plan Premiums
The Employer shall, in its sole authority, set the premium for 2013 after consulting with Preferred One and our benefits consultant, and after discussions with and input from the Labor Management Healthcare Committee (LMHCC).
Provider Tiers
The Employer shall have sole authority to implement changes as to which provider is in which Tier, effective January 2013 after consulting with Preferred One, our benefits consultant and the labor Management Healthcare Committee (LMHCC).
The health insurance plan design for 2012 and 2013 are identified in the links below.
If you have any questions about this matter, please feel free to contact me at (612) 348-6511.
Sincerely,
William P. Peters
Labor Relations Director
Hennepin County, Minnesota
Salary Steps
http://www.hennepin.us/employees/health-insurance
LINK, Health Insurance Plan Design 2016
2016 Summary of Benefits - WITH Health Incentives and WITHOUT Health Incentives
http://www.hennepin.us/employees/health-insurance
2016 Summary of Benefits - WITH Health Incentives and WITHOUT Health Incentives
Information regarding the 2017 and 2018 benefits will be available on the Benefits website as soon as available.
http://www.hennepin.us/employees/health-insurance
55 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Employees Time Off to Vote
http://www.revisor.leg.state.mn.us/stats/204C/04.html
56 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Consensus Model Based Insurance Proposal and LMHCC Structure
10/8/15 Tentative Agreement, edits based on Alison 11/9/15 email.
Consensus Parameters: County suggests that these parameters be signed by the parties in a Memorandum of Understanding and incorporated by reference as part of the CBA.
1.	For the term of this contract, the scope of the current LMHCC will expand to include consensus decision-making on the topics of plan design and premium, consistent with the consensus parameters established by the parties below.
2.	It is understood that the LMHCC will continue to operate as an educational and conversation vehicle year-round, with the
consensus process only utilized for decisions related to plan design and premium. While these decisions may come up at anytime during the year, it is expected that most of the decisions requiring a consensus will occur late in the summer each year.
3.	The parties will engage in a good faith effort to reach a consensus decision on premiums and plan design and realize that
this may take several additional meetings in late summer of each year.
4.	Attendance at the LMHCC remains available to all current attendees, but each bargaining unit will identify one "oonsenuus representative” (and an alternate) who will be responsible to speak for their bargaining unit on the two consensus issues of premium and plan design. The consensus representative will be polled and must indicate whether or not his/his bargaining unit can support consensus on a plan design or premium issue (or, in the last year of the contract, the continuation of the consensus model into the future contract). In all cases, if a consensus decision is reached, both the union and the county agree to be bound by the decision, pending County Administration approval.
5.	There will be a total of 17 eligible consensuss representatives,” one representing each bargaining unit, and 8 management
members from County Benefits and Labor Relations staff who will also be considered eligible consensuss representatives”.
6.	One Business Agents/attorney representative from each unit, as well as a Council 5 staff member may attend LMHCC
meetings and may be the consensus representative/alternate for a particular local if that is the desire of the particular union/local.
7.	Representatives (or alternates) to LMHCC must be present at multiple meetings, particularly during July/August of each year, to provide their bargaining unit’s opinion on any consensus decision. If a representative/alternate is not present, the LMHCC will proceed without their input.
8.	Early in 2016, a mediator will be asked to train the LMHCC on the concepts of facilitation and to explain how the consensus process differs from a negotiations or a voting process. The parties may also choose to continue to call upon the mediator as a facilitator if needed.
9.	All Union representatives and County representatives must be in consensus to reach a decision. The parties understand
that a representative 's consent to a decision indicates a willingness to accept the decision, not necessarily full endorsement.
10.	A consensus decision must be reached by August 31s, 2016 and2017 (2018 if there is a 3rdyear of the contract) to allow for appropriate timing of open enrollment.
i	.	If full consensus on premium amount and plan design is reached by August 31s of any year2016,2017 or 2018, the
consensus plan will be submitted to County Administration for final approval.
ii	If full consensus on premium amount and plan design is not reached by 8/31 of any year2016,2017,2018, the
decision on premium and plan design forthat year will revert back exclusively to County Administration. The Labor Relations Director will present to the County any potential items/topics on which consensus was reached as well as the items/topics in dispute.
11.	In addition, during the lastyear of the contract, whether that year is August 2017 or August 2018, the LMHCC will attempt to reach a consensus recommendation regarding the premium amount and plan design for the first year of the new contract (plan year 2018 if a 2 year contract; plan year 2019 if a 3 year contract), as well as a consensus decision regarding whether or not to recommend continuation of the LMHCC consensus model.
i.	If consensus on plan design and premium amount is not reached by 8/31 of the negotiations year, the parties shall
revert to the negotiation process as they have in the past. The employer shall present their proposal for changes to plan design and premium in the traditional contract negotiation format.
ii.	If a consensus on whether or not to continue the consensus model is not reached by 8/31 of the negotiations year,
the parties will revert to the negotiation process as they have in the past.
iii.	In all cases the amount of employee contribution under the new contract remains subject to negotiations.
12.	It is understood that the County’s recommended rate need for the health plan, as well as the County’s assessment of the plan’s status vis-a-vis the Cadillac tax is determined in consultation with actuaries and is not subject to the consensus process outlined below. (The parties acknowledge the Cadillac tax will not be a factor during the term of this agreement)
57 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
13.
14.
15.
16.
Use of the County’s reserves or other financial assets is not an appropriate topic for the consensus discussions. The LMHCC is charged with finding a consensus recommendation regarding premium and plan design that does not include the use of reserves. The LMHCC may choose to submit a separate recommendation (or not) regarding the reserves, which County Administration may consider with no obligation to agree. In all cases, the County Administration retains sole discretion on any decision regarding the reserves. Any decision by the County to use reserves in the future will be timely shared with the LMHCC in order to incorporate such information into discussions leading to consensus.
Neither the consensus process nor a negotiations process will be used for changes mandated by law or a vendor. However, the parties will negotiate the effects of any such changes.
The county reserves any and all rights with regard to benefit plan administration and policy unless specifically identified in this document or in the collective bargaining agreement. Nothing herein waives, expressly or implied, the Union’s right to negotiate any mandatory subject of bargaining.
There is no implied commitment by either party to the consensus process beyond the term of this contract. Prior to August 31 of the last year of the contract, the LMHCC will determine any continuation terms as described above.
58 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Index
ABSENCE WITHOUT LEAVE	Article 14
ADOPTION	Article 13.5
ARBITRATION	Article 7.4
ATTACHMENTS
A - Hennepin County Map
B - Current Hennpin County Departments Organized under PELRA C - Funeral Leave Administration Under the AFSCME Contract
D - Meet & Confer Topics
Letter of Understanding Regarding Legislative Transfer of Position
Letter of Understanding Classification Study
Clarification of Health Insurance Article
Transfer to Another Jurisdiction Letter
Clarification of Seniority Letter
Memorandum of Understanding - Military Reservists Benefits Dignity & Respect Initiative
Minneapolis Public Library (MPL) & Hennepin County Library (HCL) Memorandum of Understanding - Depletion of Leave Hr Balances Board Action Request - Depletionof Leave Hour Balances Resolution - Depletion of Leave Hour Balances
Board Action Request - Phased Retirement Option
Resolution - Phased Retirement Option
Wage Steps & Health Insurce Plan Design
Employees Time off to Vote
Consensus Model Based Insurance Proposal & LMHCC
Structure
AUTOMOBILE TRAVEL EXPENSES	Article 39
BI-LINGUAL EMPLOYEES	Article 9.15
BIRTH OF A CHILD	Article 13.5
BREAKS AND LUNCH	Article 9.3.C
BULLETIN BOARDS	Article 4.7
BUMPING RIGHTS	Article 6.4.C
CALL BACK PAY	Article 9.8
CONTRACTING OUT	Article 40
COURT DUTY	Article 19
59 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
DEFINITIONS	Article 3
DEPENDENT CARE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM	Article 22.3
DISCIPLINE	
Administrative Investigations	Article 32.7
Just Cause	Article 32.1, 32.2, 32.3, 32.4, 32.5
Personal Records	Article 32.6
EARLY RETIREMENT HEALTH INSURANCE PROGRAM	Article 22.10
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE	Article 29
EFFECTIVE DATES	Article 44
ELECTION DAYS	Article 20
EMPLOYEE ASSITANCE	Article 33
EMPLOYER AUTHORITY	Article 5
FAIR SHARE FEE	Article 4
FITNESS FOR DUTY	Article 30
FLEX TIME	Article 9.9
FUNERAL LEAVE	Article 16
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	Article 7
HEALTH AND SAFETY	Article 41
HEALTHCARE EXPENSE ACCOUNT	Article 22.2
HOLIDAYS	
Designated Days	Article 10.1
Pay	Article 10.2
24 Hour Operations	Article 10.3
Religious	Article 10.5
INSURANCE	
Dental	Article 38.4
Health	Article 22.1
Life	Article 22.5
Long Term Disability	Article 22.6
Short Term Disability	Article 22.9
60 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
JOB CLASS IN BARGAINING UNIT	Article	2
JOB SHARING	Article	9.9
LAYOFFS	Article	6.4.A
Article 6.5
LEAVE BENEFITS AND WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS	Article 15
LEAVE OF ABSENCE	Article 13
Military Leave	Article 17
Union Leave	Article 13.6
Workers’ Compensation	Article 15
LIFE INSURANCE	Article 22.5
LIMITED DURATION EMPLOYEES
Grievances	Article	7.7
Benefits	Article	25
LONG TERM DISABILITY	Article	22.6
LUNCH AND BREAKS	Article	9.3.C
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	Article 5
MEDICAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE Sick Leave	Article 12A.8
MEET AND CONFER	Article 31
MILITARY LEAVE	Article 17
MILITARY RESERVE TRAINING	Article 18
NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT	Article 8
NON-DISCRIMINATION	Article 34
OUT OF CLASS PAY	Article 9.10
OVERTIME Calculation	Article 9.4, 5, 6
PAID TIME OFF Employees Hired On or After the Execution Date Employees Hired Prior to the Execution Date Leave Balance Limit Requests for Leave	Article 11B.1 Article 11B.2 Article 11B.3 Article 11B.5
61 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Denials for Leave Termination	Article 11B.6 Article 11B.7
PART-TIME/TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES Benefits	Article 25
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS	Article 28
PREAMBLE	Article 1
PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES Grievances	Article 7.6, 7.8
RECALL	Article 6.4B, 6.5, 6.9
RECOGNITION	Article 2
SALARY RATES	Article 38
SAVINGS CLAUSE	Article 36
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT	Article 35
SENIORITY	Article 6
SENIORITY LISTS	Articles 6.3.A, 6.3.B, 6.7
SEVERANCE PAY Sick Leave Vacation Balances	Article 23 Article 12A.4, 12B.3 Article 11A.6, 11B.7
SHERIFF’S CIVILIAN UNIFORM	Article 43
SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL	Article 9.7
SHORT TERM DISABILITY	Article 22.9
SICK LEAVE Accrual Earnings Frozen Balance Severance Use of Using Vacation to Extend Sick Leave Habitual, Patterned Doctors Statement Eligibility Medical Leave of Absence AWOL	Article 12A, 12B Article 12A.2, 12A.3 Article 12A.1 Article 12B.1, 12B.2, 12B.4 Article 12A.4, 12B.3 Article 12A.5 Article 11A.7 Article 12A.5 Article 12A.5 Article 12A.7 Article 12A.8 Article 12A.8
62 of 63
AFSCME Council 5, Clerical Unit Local #2822 -2016-2018
Health and Fitness	Article 12A.10,
STABILITY ADJUSTMENTS	Article 24
STAFFING SCHEDULES	
Posting	Article 9.3.A
Length of Shift	Article 9.3.B
STEWARDS	
Number of	Article 4.3.A
TERM OF AGREEMENT	Article 45
TIME OFF FOR TESTING	Article 21
TRAINEES	Article 42
TUITION REIMBURSEMENT	Article 29
UNION SECURITY	Article 4
VACANCIES	Article 26
VACATION	
Eligibility	Article 11A.1
Cash Out	Article 11A.10
Computing Overtime	Article 9.13
Leave Balance Limit	Article 11A.3
Requests for Leave	Article 11A.4
Denials for Leave	Article 11A.5
Termination	Article 11A.6
Extending Sick Leave	Article 11A.7
VOLUNTARY LEAVE WITHOUT PAY (SLWOP)	Article 37
WAGES RATES	
2016	Article 38
2017	Article 38
2018	Article 38
WEEKEND DIFFERENTIAL	Article 9.12
WORK RULES	Article 27
WORK SCHEDULES/PREMIUM PAY	Article 9
WORK UNIT VACANCIES	Article 26
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION	Article 15
, 12B.6
63 of 63