BLS Contract Collection
Title: Schenectady, County of and Civil Service Employees Association, Inc. (CSEA), Local 1000, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO, Local 847 (1999)
K#: 820464
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.comell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
AGREEMENT
by and between the
COUNTY OF SCHENECTADY
and
CSEA, Local 1000 AFSCME, AFL-CIO
CSEi^
Schenectady County Unit
Schenectady County Local 847
January 1,1999 — December 31,2002
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	TITLE	PAGE
I.	APPLICABLE LAW	1
n.	RECOGNITION	1-2
in.	COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UNIT	3-7
IV.	COMPENSATION	8
V.	APPLICATION OF THIS SALARY SCHEDULE	8-10
VI.	WORK WEEK	10-11
vn.	SHIFT SCHEDULE	11
vm.	OVERTIME	11-12
IX.	PAY PERIOD	12
X.	SPECIAL RATES OF PAY	12-14
XI.	PART TIME & TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES RATES/FRINGE BENEFITS	15-16
xn.	HOLIDAYS	16-17
xm.	VACTION, SICK LEAVE AND LEAVE POLICIES	17-23
XIV.	PENSION, HEALTH AND DENTAL INSURANCE	23-29
XV.	SENIORITY	29-30
XVI.	PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE	30
xvn.	WORK SECURITY	31
ARTICLE
TITLE
PAGE
xvm.	RECLASSIFICATION	31
XIX.	LAYOFFS	31-32
XX.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES FOR COUNTY EMPLOYEES	32-35
XXI.	RECIPROCAL RIGHTS	35-37
xxn.	WORKING CONDITIONS	37-38
xxm.	EXISTING BENEFITS	38
XXIV.	SEPARABILITY	38
XXV.	TERM OF CONTRACT	38
XXVI.	LEGISLATIVE ACTION	39
	SIGNATURE PAGE	39
	RESOLUTION NO. 86-99	40-41
1999 SCHEDULES OF SALARY STANDARDS & INCREMENT TABLES
2000 SCHEDULES OF SALARY STANDARDS & INCREMENT TABLES
2001 SCHEDULES OF SALARY STANDARDS & INCREMENT TABLES
2002 SCHEDULES OF SALARY STANDARDS & INCREMENT TABLES
INDEX OF ELEMENTS
,	ARTICLE	TITLE	PAGE
i	I.	APPLICABLE LAW	1
n.	RECOGNITION	1-2 SI CSEARecognized by Employer S2 Membership Dues - Agency Shop; Direct Deposit Study S3 CSEA Sole and Exclusive Representation of Employees S4 No Strikes S5 Annual Employee List; Monthly Report of Personnel Actions S6 Employee Memo’s, Changes, Benefits
m.	COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UNIT	3-7 Titles not Included in CSEA Unit: LPN’s, Local 200D, SB A, Management
IV.	COMPENSATION	8 January 1, 1999 - Two and six tenths percent (2.6%) January 1, 2000 - Three percent (3%) January 1, 2001 - Three percent (3%) January 1, 2002 - Three percent (3%)
V.	APPLICATION OF THIS SALARY SCHEDULE 8-10 1.	New Employees 2.	Annual Increments 3.	Promotions 4.	Longevity 5.	Maintenance (Meals at Glendale) 6.	Nurses - Steps 7.	Library - Substitute Librarians 8.	Library - Part-Time Employees 9.	Salary & Increments: Part-Time & Substitute Employees
INDEX OF ELEMENTS
ARTICLE	TITLE	PAGE
VI.	WORK WEEK	10-11
Listing of Hours by Department Summer Hours - July and August Highway Employees
SCCC Employees
Glendale - RPN’s - Weekends
Library Employees - Sunday Hours
vn.	SHIFT SCHEDULE	11
	SCCC Employees Highway Employees	
vni.	OVERTIME	11-12
	Permanent Employees (Salaried and Highway) Glendale Nurses Monday - Friday Workers	
IX.	PAY PERIOD	12
X.	SPECIAL RATES OF PAY	12-14
1.	Weekend Differential
2.	Shift Differential
3.	Call-In Pay
4.	In-Service Classes Pay
5.	Mileage
6.	Tool Allowance - Highway
7.	Tuition Reimbursement
8.	Stand-By & Beepers
9.	Highway - Overtime Workers Meals
10.	Hours Differential
11.	Holiday Pay
12.	Highway - Testing Requirements and Reimbursements
4
	INDEX OF ELEMENTS
ARTICLE	TITLE	PAGE
XI.	PART-TIME AND TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES 15-16 RATES AND FRINGE BENEFITS SITemporary Employees & RPN’s S2 Part-Time & Substitute Employees - Fringe Benefits, Vacation; Time Off, Purchase Health Insurance
xn.	HOLIDAYS	16-17 A.	Legal Holidays and Library Holiday Schedule B.	Qualifications for Holiday Pay C.	Sunday/Monday or Saturday/Friday Rule - RPN’s D.	Part-Time Nurses Holiday Pay E.	One for All Rule F.	Compensation for Holidays Worked Options G.	Substitute Day for Continuous Operations Workers H.	SCCC - Telephone Operators I.	RPN’s Christmas or Thanksgiving - Alternate
xm.	VACATION, SICK LEAVE AND LEAVE POLICIES 17-23 SI Vacation Policy A, B, C. Entitled Vacation Days D.	Nurses Vacation Days E.	Prior Service Credits F.	Terminated Employees G.	Employee’s Death H.	Vacation and Time after the 1st I.	Carry-Over Vacation J.	Seniority K.	Temporary Employees Vacation Credits S2. Sick Leave Policy B.	Personal Leave D.	Medical Certification F.	Retirement Cash-Out G.	Extended Sick Plan
INDEX OF ELEMENTS
ARTICLE	TITLE	PAGE S3 Bereavement Policy S4 Disability Leave Policy S5 Leave of Absence Policy
XIV.	PENSION, HEALTH, AND DENTAL INSURANCE 23-29 SI Pension S2 Health Insurance S3 Dental Insurance
XV.	SENIORITY	29-30
XVI.	PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE	30
xvn.	WORK SECURITY	31 SI Out-of-Class Eight Percent (8%) S2 Temporary Assignment at Lower Classification S3 Notification to CSEA President on Promotions S4 Ten (10) Copies of All Test and Promotional Announcements to CSEA Chapter President
xvm.	RECLASSIFICATION	31
XIX.	LAYOFFS	31-32
XX.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES FOR COUNTY 32-35 EMPLOYEES Definitions: 1.	Employee 2.	Chief Administrator 3.	Department Head 4.	Immediate Supervisor 5.	Representative 6.	Temporary Employee 7.	Part-Time Employee 8.	Grievance
INDEX OF ELEMENTS
ARTICLE	TITLE	PAGE Procedures: 1.	Informal Stage 2.	Formal Stage 3.	Chief Administrator 4.	Arbitration Stage Basic Principles
XXI.	RECIPROCAL RIGHTS	35-37 SI Non-Discrimination Clause S2 Bulletin Board S3 Union Representatives Contract Administration S4 Union Good Faith Clause S5, S6, S7 Chapter President Allowances
xxn.	WORKING CONDITIONS	37-38 A.	Notice of Change in Methods or Conditions 7 Days in Advance B.	Employees Rights to Review Their Own Personnel Records C.	Labor Management Committee D,	E. Uniforms F.	Malpractice Insurance G.	SCCC - Access to Private Area for CSEA Personnel
XXIII.	EXISTING BENEFITS	38
XXIV.	SEPARABILITY	38
XXV.	TERM OF CONTRACT	38 January 1, 1999 - December 31, 2002
XXVI.	LEGISLATIVE ACTION	39
SIGNATURE PAGE
39
INDEX OF ELEMENTS
ARTICLE
TITLE
PAGE
RESOLUTION - 1999 SCHEDULES OF SALARY STANDARDS & INCREMENT TABLES
1999 Salary Standards
1999 Increment Table
1999 Hourly Charts
1999RPN’s Charts
1999 Highway Chart
1999 Hourly Employee Rates
RESOLUTION - 2000 SCHEDULES OF SALARY STANDARDS & INCREMENT TABLES
2000 Salary Standards
2000 Increment Table
2000 Hourly Charts
2000 RPN’s Charts
2000 Highway Chart
2000 Hourly Employee Rates
RESOLUTION-2001 SCHEDULES OF SALARY STANDARDS & INCREMENT TABLES
2001 Salary Standards
2001 Increment Table
2001 Hourly Chart
2001 RPN’s Charts
2001 Highway Chart
2001 Hourly Employee Rates
RESOLUTION - 2002 SCHEDULES OF SALARY STANDARDS & INCREMENT TABLES
2002 Salary Standards
2002 Increment Table
2002 Hourly Charts
2002 RPN’s Charts
2002 Highway Chart
2002 Hourly Employee Rates
ARTICLE I.
APPLICABLE LAW
The Public Employment Act, the other provisions of the Civil Service Law, and the Local Laws of the COUNTY OF SCHENECTADY, hereinafter known as the “EMPLOYER,” and not inconsistent with said Act and the Civil Service Law, which govern the terms and provisions of the Agreement, shall apply.
ARTICLE H.
RECOGNITION
Section 1.
The Employer recognizes the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., Local 1000, A.F.S.C.M.E., A.F.L./C.I.O., for the Schenectady County Unit of Schenectady County Local 847, hereinafter known as CSEA, as the sole and exclusive representative for all the employees in the units described in Article HI.
Section 2.
The Employer shall deduct from the wages of employees and remit to the CSEA, Inc. regular membership dues, accident, life and health insurance deductions for those employees who signed authorizations permitting such payroll deduction. The County agrees to withhold those items pertaining to union dues, insurance, etc., on a weekly basis, with remittance to be made as directed by the Union at monthly intervals for the previous month. Effective April 6, 1979, and on the first pay period of each succeeding month the Employer agrees, that in accordance with Chapter 677 of the 1977 Laws of the State of New York, to deduct from the salary of an employee who is not a member of the Association, but who is represented by the Union for the purpose of collective negotiations, an Agency Shop Fee in an amount equivalent to the amount of dues payable by a member of the Association, provided that the Association establish and maintain a procedure providing for the refund to any employee demanding the return of any part of such agency shop fee deduction which represents the employee’s pro-rata share of expenditures by the Association in aid of activities or causes only incidentally related to terms and conditions of employment.
The Employer shall deduct from the wages of the employees authorized deductions by each employee and remit to CSEA, Inc., CSEA HOMEOWNER’S PLAN, I.R.A, and be adapted to receive these deductions provided, however, that such deductions are in compliance with existing laws, rules and regulations.
page 2
The Union hereby agrees to indemnify the Employer and hold harmless the Employer regarding any claims and suits pertaining to agency shop deductions. This includes legal fees and any other expenses and costs incurred in defending such claims and suits and any judgments or awards resulting therefrom.
The County agrees to study and implement when feasible a direct deposit arrangement for County employees who wish to have their paychecks automatically deposited.
Section 3.
The Employer agrees that the Schenectady County Local of CSEA shall be the sole and exclusive representative for all employees described in Article in, for the purpose of collective negotiations and grievances. This recognition shall extend during the period of this Agreement and any renewal thereof or until another employee organization is recognized or certified under the appropriate provision of the law.
Section 4.
The Schenectady County Local of CSEA affirms that it does not assert the right to strike against the Employer, to assist or participate in any such strike, or to impose an obligation upon its members to conduct, assist or participate in such a strike.
Section 5.
The Employer agrees to furnish the Schenectady County Local of CSEA a complete listing of the names, work locations and job titles of all the employees in the negotiating unit on an annual basis. This listing shall be provided as soon as practicable following the first of the new year. This listing will not include the home addresses of such employees. In addition, the Schenectady County Local of CSEA will be provided on a monthly basis, a listing of all personnel changes occurring within the County operation during each monthly period.
Section 6.
Each employee will be furnished a memo by the Employer which will indicate their accumulated and unused sick leave, personal leave and vacation days due as of January 1st of that year. Each new employee is also to be furnished with a memo from the Employer within thirty (30) days of their employment indicating their rate of pay, grade, classification, and step. Existing employees will also be advised in writing by the Employer whenever there is a change of salary, classification, grade or experience step during the course of their employment within fifteen (15) working days after the approved change.
Each employee may, upon written request to the Civil Service Department, make inquiry as to their salary classification, grade, experience step and longevity information. Such forms shall be made available to the employees by the Department of Civil Service.
page 3
ARTICLE HI.
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UNIT
The Collective Bargaining Unit for which the Schenectady County Local of CSEA, Inc., is recognized as the sole and exclusive representative, includes all the employees of Schenectady County within the purposes and meaning of Sections 203 and 204 of Article XIV of the Civil Service Law, except and not including the following employees:
EMPLOYEES NOT IN BARGAINING UNIT
Glendale Home:
Licensed Practical Nurses (Local 721)
Glendale Home:
(Local 200D)
Nursing Assistant
Senior Cook
Assistant Cook
Stores Clerk
Senior Laundry Worker
Patient Transport Aide
Nursing Assistant Trainee
Senior Nursing Assistant Cook
Food Service Helper Laundry Worker Physical Therapy Aide Floor Aide
Jail/Sheriff: (Sheriffs Benevolent Association, Council 82)
Correction Lieutenant	Civil Enforcement Officer
Correction Sergeant	Patrol Lieutenant
Patrol Officer	Cook
Correction Officer	Senior Cook
Correction Officer - Spanish Speaking
JOB AND FLAT CLASSIFICATION MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL
Accounting and Statistical:
Commissioner of Finance Computer Systems Analyst - I.S. Deputy Director of Information Services Director of Accounting Systems - Finance Director of Information Services Director of Treasury Systems - Finance Public Safety Information Systems Coordinator Senior Computer Systems Analyst - I.S. Senior Systems Analyst - I.S.
page 4
JOB AND FLAT CLASSIFICATION MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL CONT...
Community College:
Building Superintendent
Administrative Assistant to the President/Board of Trustees
Systems Analyst
Engineering:
Commissioner of Public Works
Deputy Commissioner of Public Works
Director of Facilities - Buildings and Grounds
Director of Bureau of Engineering
General Clerical and Office Administration:
Assistant to the County Manager
Assistant Purchasing Agent
Commissioner of Planning
Community Business Center Director
County Clerk
County Manger
Deputy County Clerk - Records Management and Disposition
Deputy County Clerk II
Deputy Director of Real Property Tax Services
Director of Long Term Care Unit - (LTCU/SS)
Director of Purchasing and Resource Recovery
Director of Real Property Tax Services HI
Director of Veterans’ Service Agency
Director of Consumer Affair s/Weights and Measures
Director of Youth Services
Executive Director - Aging Services
Executive Director - Human Rights
Executive Secretary to the County Manager (4/5x)
Gateway Systems Director
Historian (part-time)
page 5
Glendale Home:
Administrator
Assistant Administrator
Assistant Director of Nurses
Assistant Food Service Director
Assistant Medical Director (part-time)
Chaplain (part-time)
Cleaning and Maintenance Supervisor
Comptroller
Dietician
Director of Activities and Volunteer Services
Director of Nurses
Director of Pastoral Services
Director of Physical Therapy
Director of Resident and Family Services
Food Service Supervisor
Medical Director (part-time)
Pharmacist
Health - Medical Practice:
Assistant Director of Preventive and Patient Services
Assistant to the Director of Community Services Administration
Commissioner of Public Health Administration
Community Family Network Director
Community Support Services Coordinator of Community Services
Deputy Commissioner of Public Health Administration
Director of Community Services Administration
Director of Environmental Health
Director of Preventive and Patient Services
Director of Programs for Children with Special Needs
Jail Physician
Medical Examiner
Substance Abuse Services Coordinator - Community Services Administration
Judiciary and Elections:
Assistant County Attorney (2/3x)
Assistant District Attorney (full-time)
Assistant District Attorney (2/3x)
Assistant District Attorney - APG
Assistant District Attorney - STOP DWI
Assistant District Attorney - Domestic Violence
Assistant District Attorney - Special Crimes Prosecutor
Assistant Public Defender (full-time)
Assistant Public Defender (90%)
page 6
JOB AND FLAT CLASSIFICATION MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL CONT...
Judiciary and Elections Cont...
Assistant Public Defender (3/5x)
Chief Assistant District Attorney
Chief Defense Trial Attorney - Public Defender
Chief Prosecuting Trial Attorney - District Attorney
Commissioner of Elections
County Attorney (2/3x)
Deputy Assistant District Attorney
Deputy Chief Assistant District Attorney
Deputy Chief Assistant Public Defender
Deputy Chief Trial Attorney (90%) - Public Defender
Deputy Commissioner of Elections
Deputy County Attorney
Disability Advocacy Program Attorney - Public Defender
District Attorney
Grand Jury Reporter - District Attorney
Probation Director H
Public Defender
Senior Assistant District Attorney
Legislative:
Assistant Deputy Clerk, Clerk of the County Legislature
Assistant to the County Auditor
Confidential Secretary to the County Auditor
Chairman, County Legislature
Clerk, Clerk of the County Legislature
County Auditor
Deputy Clerk, Clerk of the County Legislature
Legislators, County Legislature
Majority Leader, County Legislature
Minority Leader, County Legislature
Vice Chairman, County Legislature
Library:
Assistant Library Director II
Library Director TV
page 7
JOB AND FLAT CLASSIFICATION MANANGEMENT PERSONNEL CONT...
Personnel Administration:
Assistant Personnel Administrator
Civil Service Commissioner, Chairman (part-time)
Civil Service Commission (part-time)
Personnel Administrator
Personnel Technician
Public Safety:
Commissioner of Aviation (part-time)
Confidential Secretary to the Sheriff
Coordinator - Mobil Radio Dispatch (part-time)
Correction Captain - Jail
Director of Communications Systems
Director of Emergency Management Office
Major - Jail
Probation/Public Safety Information Systems Coordinator
Sheriff
Undersheriff
Social Services:
Accounting Supervisor “Grade A”
Attorney - Child Protective (4/5x)
Commissioner
Director of Long Term Care
Director of Social Services
Family Assessment Supervisor
General Counsel - Social Services
Senior Computer Systems Analyst
Social Services Attorney (full-time)
Social Services Attorney (2/3x)
page 8
ARTICLE IV.
COMPENSATION
“The County agrees to a two and six-tenths percent (2.6%) per annum, salary increase, effective January 1, 1999, and ending December 31, 1999; and to a three percent (3%) increase, effective January 1, 2000, and ending December 31, 2000; and to a three percent (3%) increase, effective January 1, 2001, and ending December 31, 2001; and to an additional three percent (3%) increase, effective January 1, 2002 and ending December 31, 2002 for all full-time salaried employees and hourly rated employees at the Highway Department. The County also agrees to increase the existing increments by 2.6% in 1999, by 3% in 2000, by 3% in 2001, and by 3% in 2002. Hourly and per diem rates will be increased by 2.6% in 1999, by 3% in 2000, by 3% in 2001, and by 3% in 2002 for part-time and temporary help (except as otherwise noted).
The County agrees to institute a pay-equity study in order to review all titles covered by this Agreement. This study will be done by the New York State Department of Civil Service, Municipal Service Division, and will be scheduled at their convenience. Both the County and the Union will participate in the planning, execution and results of this survey.”
ARTICLE V.
APPLICATION OF THIS SALARY SCHEDULE
1.	New Employee - Each new employee must start at the minimum step of the grade established for the position to which they are appointed, except with the prior approval of the County Manager, or as provided for in the Administrative Code. Each instance in which an exception is made will be reported forthwith to the members of the County Legislature by the County Manager.
2.	Annual Increments - Each employee, except those of flat salary and substitute and non-regularly
scheduled part-time employees, whose position appears on this salary schedule, and whose name appears on the payroll on July first shall, if continuously employed, be entitled on the following January first to one increment annually up to the maximum of the grade in which his position is allocated.
3.	Promotions - Each employee who shall be promoted to a new position shall receive the minimum salary of that position, unless the minimum of that position is lower than the salary received by the incumbent at the time of promotion in which case shall receive the salary of their former position and in addition one increment of their new grade provided the amount of the total of the foregoing equals a step in their new grade. If the total does not equal a step in the new grade, the employee will be paid the next higher step in that grade.
page 9
4.	Longevity:
A.	Each salaried employee, after ten (10) years of service dating from their hiring by the County as a full-time permanent employee (under the same terms and conditions as apply under the existing Agreement) shall be entitled to a cash payment (gross) equal to a single increment of the grade in which they may then be on the salary schedule. Under the same terms and conditions, after fifteen (15) years of service, the cash payment shall be equal to two increments of the grade which is then occupied. After twenty (20) years of service, under the same terms and conditions, the cash payment shall be equal to three increments of the grade then occupied on the salary schedule. Such longevity payments will be made each intervening year.
B.	Each such cash payment shall consist of a single check with required deductions (Federal, State, Social Security), and such other deductions as the law may require.
C.	The purpose of the cash payments made on the anniversary dates is to recognize longevity, and to sever and isolate longevity from the normal increment tables.
D.	All provisions in this Agreement inconsistent with the declared purpose of this provision shall be changed to reflect consistency with this provision.
Longevity increments shall be paid to hourly rated Highway Department employees as follows:
Years of Service Longevity Hourly Increment
5
10
15
20
25
+ + + + +
2.0%
3.5%
7.0%
10.0%
12.0%
The above rates are effective January 1, 1990 and apply to for the term of this contract.
5.	Maintenance - Employees of the County of Schenectady at Glendale Home will receive one meal each day without cost to the employee.
6.	Effective January 1, 1986, substitute librarians currently on staff will advance one step of the appropriate salary grade according to the following schedule:
-	After two years of working 800 or more hours each year = 1 step
-	After four years of working 500 to 799 hours each year = 1 step
-	After ten years of working 200 to 499 hours each year = 1 step
page 10
7.	Effective with the signing of this Agreement, part-time library employees with the following titles will be paid at an hourly rate according to the current appropriate grade based on a thirty-five (35) hour-per-week calculation which will include any negotiated percentage adjustment:
Library Clerk; Library Typist; Senior Library Clerk; Bookmobile Clerk-Driver; Book Repairer; Cleaner.
8.	Salary and Increments for Part-Time Employees:
A.	Regularly scheduled part-time employees as described in Article XI will receive increments in their hourly rate based on the salaried employees salary schedule. These increments will begin at Step 2 for regularly scheduled part-time employees prior to July 1, 1989 and will be payable retroactive to January 1, 1990. Additional increments will be paid each January 1 until Step 6 is reached which will be the maximum rate for these employees. No longevity steps will be paid.
Regularly scheduled part-time employees hired after July 1, 1989 will receive additional step increases in accordance with the “Schedules of Salary Standards & Increment Tables” under Sub. 2 titled “Annual Increments.”
These hourly rates will be calculated based on the step at which the employee is entitled to, divided by the number of business days in the year, divided by the number of hours a full-time employee would work in each day.
B.	Substitute and non-regularly scheduled part-time employees will receive an hourly rate calculated in the above manner based on the minimum of the grade that encompasses their title. Non-regularly scheduled part-time librarians will continue to receive increments as described in Sub. 7 of this Article.
ARTICLE VI.
WORKWEEK
The work week for all employees shall in no event be in excess of forty (40) hours. Employees shall finish their work day at the place it began.
The work week for the departments included in this Agreement will be 35 hours excepting:
Library	37 '/a hours
Airport	40 hours
Highway Department - Hourly Rated Employees	40 hours
County Buildings and Grounds	40 hours
Glendale Home
Maintenance and Housekeeping	40 hours
Schenectady County Community College
Maintenance	40 hours
page 11
Summer hours during July and August shall continue on the same basis as in the past.
Highway Department Employees - The working hours in the Highway Department shall continue as in the past, and during the months of July and August, all hourly rated employees in the Highway Department will be required to work only 7 'A hours although they will continue to be paid for eight (8) hours.
Clerical employees at the Schenectady County Community College who normally work thirty-five (35) hours per week shall be granted a summer schedule during July and August whereby daily closing hour shall be one-half hour earlier than usual.
Registered Professional Nurses employed at Glendale Home who work the 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. shift will receive every other weekend off providing that minimum staffing levels are maintained.
Full-time salaried Library employees required to work on Sunday will receive credit for time worked at one and one-half time (i.e., 4 14 hours worked, credited for 6 % hours). These employees will not work more than five (5) days in any one work week, but will work a minimum of 37 14 hours each week. Any time not credited on Sunday to make a full day will be made up during the following four work days. No weekend differential will be paid to the above employees for Sunday hours.
ARTICLE VH.
SHIFT SCHEDULE
The shift schedule for all maintenance staff at the Schenectady County Community College is as follows:
7:00 a.m.	-	3:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m.	-	11:00 p.m.
It is recognized to insure the orderly and efficient operation of the College that it will be necessary to change the regular work schedule or the regular hours of work. In those instances, the changes shall be made by mutual agreement.
In the Highway Department, the normal daytime schedule shall be 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
ARTICLE Vin.
OVERTIME
All permanent employees in the bargaining unit will be compensated at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any work day or forty (40) hours in any work week, providing they are directed by or have approval of the department head, except as noted below for Saturday and Sunday work.
page 12
Nurses- Any full-time nurse required to work their day off or a day in excess of their regular work week shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half at the rate of the shift involved.
All employees who normally work a Monday through Friday work week, including all thirty-five (35) hour employees, shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half of the current hourly rate of pay for all hours worked on a Saturday or Sunday: and such overtime rate shall be paid for Saturday/Sunday work (for those employees on a normal Monday-Friday work week) whenever such work is performed on those days, regardless of any lost time during the normal work week.
ARTICLE IX.
PAY PERIOD
All County employees including Schenectady County Community College employees shall be paid on the same pay day schedule.
ARTICLE X.
SPECIAL RATES OF PAY
1.	Weekend Differential - All full-time employees, exclusive of the Highway Department, required to work either a Saturday and/or Sunday, shall receive a twelve percent (12%) differential for each of the above days actually worked.
2.	Shift Differential - A ten percent (10%) shift differential will be paid to permanent full-time employees who work a shift of at least seven (7) hours between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
The shift differential will be paid to Glendale Registered Professional Nurses who work between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., regardless of the number of hours worked.
3.	Call-In Pay - All employees, including those employees in the Social Services and Probation Departments who are summoned to work in an emergency, or who are called out to complete an assigned mission after completing their tour of duty will be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the appropriate rate or time and one-half for hours actually worked, whichever is greater.
4.	In-Service Classes Pay - When employees are required to attend in-service classes, teaching days or workshops, or other required and approved learning sessions, on other than County time, they shall be compensated at regular time.
5.	Mileage - All employees required to use their own vehicles on County business will be compensated at the rate as is the rate allowed by the Internal Revenue Service.
page 13
6.	Tool Allowance - There shall be a $276.00 tool allowance per year for Highway Department mechanics. The tool allowance shall be net of all other charges, withholdings, pension payments, and other legally required claims against the individuals to whom such allowance is due. Computation of such gross amount as may be required to yield $276.00 net allowance shall be made each year, as of the first week of that year, regardless of any changes that may occur during the remainder of the period prior to payment of the allowance. The Commissioner of Engineering and Public Works will establish a standard and metric tool requirement which must be maintained before the tool allowance will be paid. This allowance is to be paid as of July 1 of each year.
Automotive mechanics employed prior to July 29, 1987, will receive from the County a set of metric tools as required by the Commissioner of Engineering and Public Works. These required tools will be added to the “Mechanics Basic Tool Set” list to assure that all automotive mechanics hired after July 29, 1987, forward will be required to have these metric tools as a condition of employment.
In all other departments, the County shall provide such tools as may be required for the work performed, but each employee shall be responsible for the care, custody and maintenance of all furnished tools.
7.	Advance Studies:
A.	All Caseworkers, Senior Caseworkers, and Case Supervisors “A” and “B” presently receiving an allowance of ten percent (10%) or twenty percent (20%) shall continue to receive the same as long as they maintain their present titles/positions or a higher title/position within the Department of Social Services. All fiill-time permanent employees who have successfully completed an approved job-related Master’s Degree program that is not a minimum requirement for their position shall receive an additional ten percent (10%) of their annual base salary.
B.	Full-time employees shall be reimbursed fifty percent (50%) of tuition payments (one hundred percent [100%] for Schenectady County Community College courses) upon successful completion of college or other courses which are job-related or which are necessary for a job-related degree. It is understood that the employee agrees to continue employment with the County after such successful completion of courses for six (6) months for each six (6) semester credit hours for which the County has paid tuition. If the employee chooses not to continue employment, the cost of said courses must be reimbursed to the County. Any course for which reimbursement is to be requested must be approved and authorized in advance. Tuition courses will be limited to six (6) credit hours per semester.
page 14
8.	In the Social Services Department, Child Protective Unit, and in the Probation Department, employees who are required to stand by on weekends shall receive an additional sixty dollars ($60) for each weekend of standby.
In addition to the differential, those employees required to stand by on a weekend shall have a “beeper” assigned.
Charges for telephone expenses to be reimbursed when voucher is submitted.
All Caseworkers in the Department of Social Services who are assigned to the Child Protective Unit will receive an additional five percent (5%) during such period only.
9.	In the Highway Department, those employees who work overtime shall be paid a meal allowance as follows:
A.	The employee shall receive a four dollar ($4) meal allowance for each four (4) consecutive hours of overtime worked. This allowance shall be net of other charges, withholdings, pension payments, and other legally required claims against the individuals to whom such allowance is due. Computation of the gross amount, as may be required to yield the four dollar ($4) net allowance, shall be made each year as of the first week of that year; and such computation shall remain for the duration of that year, regardless of any changes that may occur during the year, and prior to payment of the allowance.
B.	Employees who are entitled to such allowance, and who were not on the Highway Department payroll at the beginning of any year, shall have such computation determined within the first two (2) weeks after becoming part of the payroll.
10.	Hours Differential - All employees with the same job title classification (except Library) will be compensated as follows:
35	hours per week	base salary
37	16 hours per week	base salary plus 7%
40	hours per week	base salary plus 14%
11.	Holiday Pay - See Article XII - Holidays
12.	The County agrees to reimburse Highway Department employees who are employed prior to the signing of this Agreement for any expenses incurred in meeting the testing requirements for a job-related commercial motor vehicle operators license. Highway Department employees employed prior to the signing of this Agreement who are offered a promotional opportunity which requires a job-related commercial motor vehicle operator’s license will also be reimbursed for any expense incurred in meeting the testing requirements for this license.
page 15
ARTICLE XI.
PART-TIME AND TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES RATES AND FRINGE BENEFITS
Section 1	- Temporary Employees
Temporary employees shall be compensated in accordance with the rates listed in the Salary Schedule.
Section 2	- Part-Time Employees
Definitions:
1.	Part-time Employee - An employee who works less than one-half of full-time hours AND works on a regularly scheduled basis.
2.	Substitute Employee - An employee who works on an on-call basis without regularly scheduled hours including summer and seasonal employees.
Fringe Benefits - Employees defined as part-time in #1 above will receive the following benefits:
A.	Vacation and Sick Leave
1.	Part-time employees who work in departments where the full-time week is 35 hours will receive 7 hours of vacation and 7 hours of sick leave for every 183 hours worked each year, and may use up to 14 hours of sick leave as personal leave.
2.	Part-time employees who work in departments where the full-time week is 37.5 hours will receive 7.5 hours of vacation, and 7.5 hours of sick leave for every 196 hours worked each year, and may use up to 15 hours of sick leave as personal leave.
3.	Part-time employees who work in departments where the foil-time week is 40 hours will receive 8 hours of vacation and 8 hours of sick leave for every 209 hours worked each year, and may use up to 16 hours of sick leave as personal leave.
4.	Benefits will be calculated at the end of each calendar year, based on the previous year’s hours worked, and credited as of the next January 1. Part-time employees may carry over the number of hours of vacation which they received on the previous January 1.
B.	Bereavement: Three (3) calendar days death in the immediate family dating from the death of the relative. The term “immediate family” means parent, spouse, child, brother, sister of the employee.
page 16
Employees defined in #2 above, receive no benefits until they are appointed as an employee defined in #1 above. Part-time employees shall be permitted to accumulate a maximum of two hundred (200) sick days.
Vacation and sick leave shall be accumulated from date of employment but may not be used prior to one year of service.
Employees defined in #1 and #2 above, have the option to purchase, at their own expense, while they are actively employed, the health, medical and dental plans the County provides at the group rate. Once these employees become members of the Plan, and subsequently drop the coverage by not making a timely, monthly payment, they may not rejoin.
All employees scheduled to work at least one-half of the scheduled work week on a regular basis, and at least 18 hours during the work week, shall be eligible for the health, dental and medical plans the County provides and shall receive all full-time leave benefits under this contract on a pro-rata basis.
ARTICLE Xn.
HOLIDAYS
A.	All full-time employees covered by this Agreement shall be granted the following legal holidays
with pay:
New Year’s Day Martin Luther King Day Lincoln’s Birthday Washington’s Birthday
Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Columbus Day
Election Day
Veterans Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Christmas Day
Library employees will receive the day of Christmas Eve off in lieu of the day after Thanksgiving. In years when the County Office Building is closed three (3) days for the Christmas holiday, the Library shall be closed those same three (3) days, and Library employees shall receive either the day before or the day after the holiday weekend in lieu of the day after Thanksgiving. Employees who choose to work on the days preceding and following the holiday weekend will receive a compensatory day off during the year.
B.	A full-time employee, in order to qualify for compensatory time under Section “A” of this Article, shall be required to work the last scheduled day before the holiday and the first scheduled day after the holiday, unless otherwise excused.
page 17
C.	When a holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday. When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the previous Friday shall be observed as the holiday, with the exception of the nurses at Glendale Home and Air Traffic Controllers who will observe the actual holiday. (It is agreed that when the official County Holiday List is received from the Civil Service Department each year, a Labor/Management Committee will review the list and determine which days shall be observed as holidays for computation of holiday pay, with the exception of Fourth of July, Christmas and New Year’s which will always be paid for on the date they fall (e.g., 7/4, 12/25,1/1).
D.	Holiday work for part-time nurses shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half of total pay. Total pay shall include regular rate, shift differential, plus lack of benefits pay.
E.	If any County employees are granted an additional holiday, all County employees shall be granted equal compensatory time off.
F.	Any full-time employee required to work a holiday will be compensated at the rate of time and one-half, and receive a substitute day off, or, at his own option, may choose to be paid for the holiday, resulting in a premium of 2 Vi days pay for a holiday actually worked.
Any full-time permanent employee required to work Thanksgiving, Christmas, or New Year’s Days shall be compensated at the rate of double time, and receive a substitute day off or at their option, a premium of triple time for said holiday worked. Any full-time permanent employee required to work more than eight (8) hours on a holiday will receive time and one-half the holiday premium rate for overtime hours worked.
G.	If a holiday falls outside the employee’s regular work week, the employee shall be given a substitute day off.
H.	Every effort will be made to give all R.P.N.’s either Christmas or Thanksgiving off, with the alternate holiday to be given the following year, providing minimum staffing levels have been maintained.
ARTICLE Xin.
VACATION, SICK LEAVE AND LEAVE POLICIES
Section 1.	- Vacation Policy
All full-time employees shall be granted a vacation period in accordance with the following schedule:
Such leave shall be accumulated from date of employment but may not be used prior to one year’s service.
page 18
A.	Upon completion of the first continuous year of service and thereafter through the completion of the fifth year ten (10) days vacation.
B.	Upon the completion of the fifth year and the start of the sixth year, fifteen (15) days vacation.
C.	Upon the completion of the tenth year and the start of the eleventh year, twenty (20) days vacation. Upon the completion of the fifteenth year , and the start of the sixteenth year, twenty-one (21) days; for the seventeenth year, twenty-two (22) days; for the eighteenth year, twenty-three days; for the nineteenth year, twenty-four (24) days; and for the twentieth year and thereafter, twenty-five (25) days. Upon completion of twenty-five years, thirty (30) days shall be granted.
D.	Excepted from the above shall be nurses at Glendale Home, who, if full-time employees, shall be entitled to the following:
Upon completion of the first year of service, and through the completion of the tenth year, fifteen (15) days vacation. Thereafter, they shall accumulate vacation as in “C” above.
E.	Provided, however, that whenever the functions, powers and duties exercised by a city, village, or town, or any of their agents, in the administration of municipal affairs, are transferred and assigned, in whole or in part, to the County, prior service of employees so transferred and assigned shall be credited to such employees.
F.	Any employee who terminated service with the County will be entitled cash money for unused vacation to which he is properly entitled.
G.	When an employee dies while in the service of the County, the County Commissioner of Finance is authorized to pay the employee’s designated beneficiary, or his estate if no beneficiary is designated, the monetary equivalent of any unused vacation credits to which the deceased employee would have been entitled had he not died.
H.	An employee shall be entitled to take any time after the first day of January of each year at the discretion of his department head.
I.	All full-time employees eligible to earn vacation may carry over two (2) weeks of vacation time into the following year. No vacation accumulation may exceed two (2) weeks. All vacation time used each year will be considered to have been taken in the following order:
1.	Accumulated (carry over) vacation credited.
2.	Current vacation time credited for the current year.
Requests for vacation carry over must be submitted to department heads no later than November 1st of the year in which the vacation is earned.
page 19
J.	Choice of vacation shall be extended on the basis of departmental seniority. This shall, however, in no way conflict with the discretion of the department head in approving vacation requests.
K.	For the calculation of vacation credits, the time recorded on the payroll at the full rate of pay shall be considered as time served by the employee, providing the employee has continuous service from the time of temporary employment.
L.	The Employer is agreeable to transferring vacation credits with the employee in the event that earned vacations shall not have been used by an employee prior to transfer or reassignment.
Section 2.	- Sick Leave Policy
Absence from duty by a full-time employee by reason of sickness or disability of said employee, shall be allowed as provided in this section as follows, without exception:
A.	“All full-time employees shall be entitled to an annual sick leave total of twelve (12) days, to be credited at the rate of one day per month of service, to be credited at the end of each month, with the annual (advance) credit of twelve (12) days to be made under the same terms and conditions as are presently in effect for existing full-time employees. The annual credit of twelve (12) days shall remain in effect for each full-time employee hired prior to January 1,1997 for a period of four full years from their initial date of employment. Employees hired on January 1,1997 and thereafter, shall continue to accrue sick leave at the rate of twelve (12) days per year throughout their employment.
After the completion of four (4) full years of employment, those employees hired prior to January 1, 1997 will be credited with eighteen (18) days of sick leave per year on each succeeding January 1st.
Five (5) days per year may be used for personal business and five (5) days per year may be used for family illness. The twenty-four (24) hour notice for personal leave shall continue, but personal leave may be granted in an emergency with the department head’s approval.”
B.	Two (2) personal leave days, available under the existing contract, to be used in “hourly installments.”
C.	When requesting sick leave, the employee shall report to his department head within one (1) hour of the beginning of the workday. Failure to do so within that time (unless for reasons satisfactory to the department head), will be considered as time off without pay.
D.	No specific time will be established for requiring a M.D.’s certificate for absence as a result of illness. However, the department head may request a certificate in any case where he considers it warranted. Failure to submit proper proof of illness when required to do so shall result in the absence being considered time off without pay.
page 20
E.	An employee shall be allowed to accumulate sick time to a maximum of two hundred (200) days.
F.	Payment for Unused Sick Leave
1.	At the discretion of the employee, the County shall, upon an employee’s retirement or disability, pay fifty percent (50%) in cash of all unused accumulated sick leave up to one hundred sixty-five (165) days. The balance of the unused or unpaid sick leave may be transferred into the Retirement Option 41-j.
2.	Employees who retire with twenty (20) or more years of service, who, at the time of retirement, have accumulated the maximum number of sick leave days allowed (200) and who have begun each year at maximum for three (3) years prior to retirement, shall be entitled to a cash payment, in addition to that of 41-j, of the balance of days not affected by 41-j (200 - 165=) or thirty five (35) days.
3.	Upon the death of the employee, while on the County payroll, all accumulated sick leave will be paid for in cash, at the employee’s last regular rate of pay or salary. Payment will be made in accordance with ARTICLE XUI, SECTION 1, PARAGRAPH G.
F.	The Employer will provide an Extended Sick Plan applicable to all sickness and injury not subject to Workers Compensation for all full-time employees under the following conditions: Effective with the signing of this Agreement, all full-time permanent employees hired on or after that date will not be eligible for the Extended Sick Plan during their first full year of employment.
1.	In order to qualify to be eligible for Extended Sick Leave, the employee must have accumulated a minimum of eight (8) sick leave days.
2.	The qualifying period for ESL is fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days under continuous medical treatment.
3.	After qualifying period is met, half of all accumulated sick days, up to a maximum of 30 days, must first be exhausted.
4.	Upon medical certification, when conditions 1, 2, and 3 have been met, the additional “bank” of thirty (30) sick days shall be credited to the account of the employee. The County may, at any time that an employee is absent from work using this benefit, request additional medical certification from the employee’s doctor.
In addition, the County may require that before the employee returns to work, the employee be examined by a physician chosen by the County, but the scheduling of such examination shall not preclude the employee’s returning to work.
page 21
5.	Full payment of wages (in accordance with existing rules for payment of wages for sick days) shall apply to the “bank” until it is exhausted.
6.	After return to work from Extended Sick Leave, fully able to perform normal work duties, upon the occurrence of a second illness or injury, under all the conditions listed above, a second thirty (30) day period shall be made available.
7.	If any ESL bank is exhausted, and additional time is required, the County Manager in his sole discretion shall have the right (upon application) to grant an extension up to an additional thirty (30) workdays.
8.	Extended Sick Leave shall not be available for elective surgery as described in the then current County Health Plan.
9.	Upon return to work, any days remaining in a “bank” may be used for follow-up visits to a physician only in connection with the same cause which provided eligibility for the “bank.”
10.	All days remaining in any “bank” upon the employee’s return to work shall be removed from the employee’s sick days when the employee is next credited with their regular sick days, or the first of the following year, whichever occurs first.
Section 3.	- Bereavement Policy
A.	Full-time employees may be absent from duty without loss of pay by reason of death in the immediate family up to a period of five (5) calendar days, dating from the death* of the relative; such absence from duty shall not be charged to accumulated sick leave or vacation.
• If an employee is at work and is notified of a death in the family and leaves work, bereavement leave starts with the time the employee leaves. If the death occurs after the employee has left their regular shift of work, bereavement leave starts the following day.
B.	The term “immediate family” means parent, spouse, child, brother, sister of the employee.
C.	Full-time employees may be absent from duty without loss of pay by reason of death of in-laws and close relatives up to a period of three (3) calendar days dating from death of in-law or close relative. Such absence shall not be charged to accumulated sick leave or vacation.
D.	The term “in-laws” and “close relatives” means mothers-in-law, fathers-in-law, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, sisters-in-law, brothers-in-law, legal guardian, grandparents and grandchildren.
page 22
E.	When required, each employee shall be entitled to take up to five (5) additional days under “A” above, or three (3) additional days under “C” above. Such additional days may be taken by using personal days available for the same calendar year.
An employee desiring to use part or all of the additional days (vacation or personal) allowed, shall provide their immediate superior or department head with a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours notice of such intent. Failure to give such notice will result in loss of pay for all days absent, until proper notice is duly given.
While the additional days taken are left to the discretion of the employee, abuse of this discretion will result in a joint labor-management review of this section.
Section 4.	- Disability Leave Policy
Where an employee receives compensation under the Workers’ Compensation Law on account of disability, they shall elect in writing whether they desire to have sick leave with pay during the period of disability for which they receive compensation. Such written statement must be filed with the department head. In the event that the employee elects to take sick leave with pay during such disability, they shall, for the period of their disability, not exceeding their accumulated sick leave time, be paid the difference between what they receive as compensation and their regular rate of pay, the time during which they are so paid shall be deducted from their accumulated sick leave time.
Section 5.	- Leave of Absence Policy
A. Application for leave of absence without pay, subject to the Rules of the Civil Service Commission, shall be filed by the employee with the department head and shall state the reasons for the leave and the duration. The response from the department head shall be given within a reasonable time.
1.	Maternity leave without pay may be granted for not more than six (6) months upon certification by a doctor.
2.	Child rearing leave without pay may be granted for not more than six (6) months following the birth or adoption of a child or for an employee who becomes a step-parent of a minor child.
3.	The County will provide a leave of absence without pay, upon request, not to exceed one (1) year, to any employee who presents evidence of serious illness in the immediate family (mother, father, wife, husband, brother or sister) where no alternative source of care can be economically provided. Although approval must be obtained from the department head and the County Manager, it is agreed that such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
page 23
4.	The County will provide a leave of absence without pay, upon request, not to exceed one (1) year, at the discretion of the department head and the County Manager, to any individual to take a course of study which is job or career oriented.
ARTICLE XIV.
PENSION, HEALTH AND DENTAL INSURANCE
Section 1.	- Pension
A.	The Employer agrees to continue the Retirement Plan, Section 75-i if the New York State Retirement Program.
B.	The Employer agrees to continue the new Ordinary Death Benefit Option, Section 60 (b) of the Retirement and Social Security Law.
C.	The Employer agrees to continue the transfer of unused sick leave option Section 41-j of the Retirement and Social Security Law. The employee wishing to use the benefit of Section 41-j shall furnish the following statement to his department head: “I wish to have the County reimburse me in a lump sum at the time of my retirement for fifty percent (50%) of my unused sick leave in accordance with the State Retirement Law.”
Section 2.	— Health Insurance
A. Benefits to be provided shall include all those presently provided under the New York State Governmental Employees Health Insurance Program, including those benefits presently provided to retirees and the spouses and families of retirees.
Additional benefits to be provided are:
•	$ 100,000 coverage per employee with no lifetime maximum limit;
•	An allowance of $50 for an annual physical examination for each employee for whom the County presently pays the full cost of medical coverage under “A” above. The deductible for Major Medical if $50/person, $150/family.
•	$100,000 maximum insurance coverage is for each contract year, and applies to the Major Medical portion only.
•	The cost per prescription for all participants covered by this plan shall be governed as follows:
page 24
i.	The prescription drug plan shall be amended to increase the co-payment from $2 to $3 for generic drug prescription and/or $7 for brand name drug prescription, and
ii.	all employees covered by the prescription drug plan shall be required to purchase prescriptions from pharmacies that are members of the Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield Select Pharmacy Management Network. A list of member pharmacies will be provided to each employee, and
iii.	all employees covered by the prescription drug plan shall also have the option to purchase prescription drugs by mail order through the Caremark Prescription Service Program which requires a co-payment of $3, and
iv.	in the event that a specific generic brand prescription drug has not been manufactured to replace a brand name, then all employee prescriptions for that drug shall be filled with the brand name, however, the employee shall only be obligated to pay the $3 generic co-payment.
• Employees hired after the signing of this Agreement, upon their retirement from Schenectady County, shall not be entitled to the Medicare Part B reimbursed by the County.
B.	All employees covered by this Agreement shall have the option of transferring their medicaldental coverage to C.H.P., M.V.P., or Healthnet from such coverage as the County presently provides; providing, that the County shall not be required to provide any greater share of such coverage in dollars, than it presently provides, or which it may provide in the future.
C.	The Employer shall extend to those employees who are eligible, the waiver of premium in the event of prolonged illness.
1.	A waiver of premium for a period of up to one (1) year in duration may be granted to an employee who is totally disabled while on authorized leave without pay, or while their name is on a Civil Service preferred list.
2.	In order to be eligible for such a waiver, the employee must meet all of the following conditions:
a.	He/she must be totally disabled as a result of sickness or injury and have been continuously so disabled for at least three (3) months.
b.	He/she must be on authorized leave without pay, or on a Civil Service Preferred List.
c.	He/she must have his/her coverage in effect by direct payments to his/her agency during the period he/she has been off the payroll.
page 25
1.	An employee on authorized leave without pay must remit the premium directly to his/her agency. An employee whose name is on a Civil Service preferred list is required to pay only the employee share of his/her premium while he/she is on such list.
2.	The procedures for instituting a Waiver of Premium are the same for all enrollment options.
a.	The employee should obtain a Form PS-452 (Application for Waiver of Premium) from his/her personnel office.
b.	The employee must complete Part A of the form and have his/her physician complete Part C. The employee should return the form to his/her personnel office.
c.	The personnel office should complete Part B of the form and forward the form to the Employee Insurance Section for approval.
d.	The Employee Insurance Section will note the form to indicate whether the application has been approved or disapproved and return it to the employing agency.
e.	If approved, the waiver will commence on the first day of the fourth calendar month following the occurrence of the disability, or on the first day of the calendar month following exhaustion of accrued sick leave, whichever is later.
f.	The waiver will continue during the period of total disability, but in no event for more than one (1) year. If any of the following conditions occur before the expiration of the year, the waiver will cease:
1.	Cessation of the disability.
2.	Return of the employee to the payroll.
3.	Approval of a request for retirement.
4.	Separation from service.
5.	Death of enrollee.
g.	The employee’s name should be deleted on a supplemental Form PS-505A for the month the waiver became effective. The form should be noted to indicate the reason for the deletion and the beginning and ending dates of the waiver period.
D.	The Employer agrees to cover at its full expense all eligible employees and their families with the following insurance:
The Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield Plan, including Hospital, Medical, Major Medical, Prescription Drugs and Dental coverages.
page 26
Benefits provided shall include:
1.	For Retirees:
•	All those benefits in effect under the New York State Government Employees’ Health Insurance Program as of June 1, 1981, plus those additional benefits put into effect as of June 1, 1981 in the County Health Plan of Schenectady County.
•	The right, after January 1, 1981, for any retiree (after that date) to purchase dental insurance identical to that provided for all County employees, upon payment to the County (in advance) of an amount equal to that paid by the County to its Administrator (carrier) for such coverage.
•	The option to purchase dental insurance shall be made by the retiree coincident with the termination of such coverage as an employee. Failure to elect coverage within thirty (30) days of termination of County coverage (as an employee), or failure to maintain coverage for any thirty (30) day consecutive period after election of optional dental coverage shall permanently terminate such coverage (option).
•	For employees retiring after this Agreement is signed, who have not attained the age of sixty-five (65) as of the date of retirement:
i.	All of the additional benefits which eligible active employees receive under this proposal are to be available to retirees until they reach the age of sixty-five (65) or until they become eligible for Medicare, if younger than sixty-five (65).
ii.	Once eligible for Medicare, or at sixty-five (65), whichever occurs first, retirees shall receive the benefits which are listed above for Retirees in lieu of all other benefits.
Employees retiring who have not attained the age of sixty-five (65) as of the date of retirement have the option of remaining in the CSEA Improved Health Plan (the 1/1/86 Plan) or transferring to the Plan in effect for retirees over the age of sixty-five (65) {the 6/1/81 Plan}.
2.	For All Eligible Active Employees:
The following increases in benefits will occur on January 1, 1986. (All other benefits are to continue as presently existing.)
a.	“Child Care” benefits (as defined by Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield) will apply to the first two (2) years of any newly bom child. Any adopted child will receive two (2) years of such “Child Care” benefits, less the age of the child at the time of adoption.
Any person who is the legal guardian of a child will receive benefits as those listed above for an adopted child.
page 27
The above benefits will only apply to those employees who are eligible for Family Coverage.
b.	That part of charges presently billed by physicians (commonly referred to as twenty percent (20%) co-pay) will be eliminated.
3.	Cost Containment Measures:
The following administrative changes will accompany the new benefits on January 1, 1986. These administrative changes shall be referred to as “cost containment measures.” These administrative changes must have the approval of the New York State Department of Insurance.
a.	Emergency procedures and emergency operations are excluded from “cost containment measures.” The patient’s doctor shall make the final determination of whether an emergency existed at the time the operation occurred.
b.	Certain surgical procedures shall be performed on an out-patient basis only. Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield shall define those operations which fall into this category, and the list of surgical procedures may be changed after such list has been made available to all employees covered by the	County Health Plan. The current list includes:
Breast Biopsy	Bronchoscopy
Colonoscopy	Cystoscopy
Diagnostic Dilation and Curettage	(D&C)	Diagnostic Laparoscopy
Excision of Skin Lesion	Gastroscopy
Myringotomy	Vesectomy
c.	Certain surgical procedures will require that the patient’s doctor consult with a representative of Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield for a second surgical opinion, before undertaking elective surgery. The County Health Plan will pay any fees connected with the second surgical opinion. The list of surgical procedures may be changed after such list has been made available to all employees covered by the County Health Plan. The current list of procedures requiring a second surgical opinion includes:
Bunionectomy
Repair of Deviated Septum
Knee Surgery
Cataract Removal
Hysterectomy Prostatectomy
d.	Pre-admission testing and diagnosis will be done on an out-patient basis for all scheduled surgery.
page 28
e.	There shall be no Friday or Saturday hospital admissions except in emergencies as stated above.
f.	Upon admission to the hospital, the employee’s physician shall notify the Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield reviewer of the- admission. The reviewer shall review the need for the patient’s hospitalization, advise the employee’s physician as to the appropriate procedures to be followed, and conduct the continued stay review.
g.	After an operation has been performed on an “in-patient” basis, consultation shall be maintained between the patient’s physician and Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield County Health Plan, in order to review the appropriate length of stay for that patient. When, after consultation, it is decided that the patient no longer requires continued hospitalization, the administrator will arrange for appropriate after-care when necessary. Such after-care may include the use of a hospital bed, weights, visitation by nursing personnel, medications, etc. The County Health Plan will pay for all special requirements for home health care, including Hospice personnel as required for the length of time as determined by the physician and Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield.
h.	If the patient proceeds in disregard of the cost containment measures in B, C, D, E or G above, he/she may do so, but will be required to pay three hundred dollars ($300) for each such choice.
4.	Employee Contribution:
All employees hired by the County of Schenectady after February 16, 1990, who are eligible for benefits under the County Health and Dental Plan, will begin to pay, via payroll deductions, to the County of Schenectady, in order to participate in the County Health Plan, an amount to be determined in accordance with the following:
a.	Ten percent (10%) of the full cost to the County of Schenectady for the above Health and Dental Plans, on either a single or family basis until, they have contributed for three (3) full years.
b.	Employees hired on January 1, 1997 and thereafter shall contribute ten percent (10%) of the full cost to the County of Schenectady for the above health and dental plans throughout their employment.
5.	Other Terms and Conditions:
Other than those changes listed above, all other existing terms and conditions affecting Health and Dental coverages shall remain in effect.
page 29
Section 3.	- Dental Insurance
The Employer agrees to continue the Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield Dental Care Program referred to as the eighty percent (80%) coverage basic contract and rider A at no cost to the individual employee. The Employer shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost of the coverage of the Dental Care Program.
Additional coverages under the County Dental Plan will include those presently known under the Empire Blue Cross/Blue Shield Plan as coverages “B” and “D”, to include fifty percent (50%) copay for orthodonture and bridges and false teeth. The existing co-pay provisions on the current dental plan will remain in effect.
All retirees after January 1, 1981, shall be entitled to carry dental insurance identical to that provided for all County employees, upon payment to the County (in advance) of an amount equal to that paid by the County to the carrier for such coverage.
Section 4.	- Optical Insurance
An Optical Insurance Plan will be provided by the County, and at the County’s expense to all eligible employees covered by this Agreement. The minimum coverage of this plan will apply to County employees only and will provide for an eye examination, lenses and frames every other year to a maximum of $150.00. This plan will be implemented as soon as possible after the signing of this Agreement.
Section 5.	- Death Payment
Any full-time permanent employee who dies while on the County payroll, and whose accrued sick days and unused vacation days do not total $3000, will be entitled to payment by the County of the difference between such employees’ credits and $3000. Said payment will be made as soon as possible to the spouse of the deceased employee, or other named beneficiary.
ARTICLE XV.
SENIORITY
The Employer agrees to recognize and adhere to the principles of seniority based on date of employment, the only exception being part-time employees whose time shall be pro-rated. Therefore, senior employees shall have first preference of employment and/or promotional opportunities in all cases for labor jobs, non-competitive jobs, and competitive jobs excepting where a Civil Service exam list has been established. Senior employees may choose their work shifts and work at the job for which the pay is the highest, providing such employee meets the qualification and/or experience for such job, the qualifications and/or experience to be determined by the Employer.
page 30
The CSEA reserves the right to grieve a hiring or promotion so as to ascertain that an eligible senior employee was given first opportunity under this Agreement. New employees shall be placed on the seniority list as of their date of employment.
Seniority shall be based on the date of employment, no matter what classification or upgrading an employee has been promoted into. He will carry his seniority into that position, from the date of his employment. Seniority shall be transferred from department to department.
ARTICLE XVI.
PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE
1.	It is the mission of the Employer to provide services to the residents of Schenectady County. In order to provide such services, the Employer must guide and direct its work force. The Employer agrees that, while directing its work force, discipline shall be applied progressively. However, it is understood that certain violations (e.g., patient abuse, theft, insubordination, or misconduct) may warrant immediate suspension and/or discharge. The Employer shall apply formal discipline only for just cause.
2.	The process of progressive discipline includes counseling, written warning notices, written reprimands and charges and specifications. It is understood that formal discipline shall begin with a written reprimand. An employee shall be entitled to their right to Union representation at each stage of this procedure.
3.	A written warning and/or reprimand shall be removed from an employee’s file one (1) year from the date of issue provided there are no repeat violations extending this time period or there is a pending disciplinary hearing during this period. More serious disciplinary penalties shall be removed after two (2) years.
4.	An employee may use the grievance process to appeal formal discipline. However, a grievance appealing a written reprimand shall commence with the department head and a grievance appealing a suspension and/or discharge may commence at the Chief Administrator stage of the grievance procedure, it will constitute a waiver of rights under Sections 75 and 76 of Civil Service Law.
5.	All formal discipline must be commenced within thirty (30) days from either, (a) the date of the offense, or, (b) the date of knowledge of the offense.
page 31
ARTICLE XVn.
WORK SECURITY
Section 1	- Any employee assigned to perform the duties of a higher classification shall be compensated at a rate of eight percent (8%) above his/her regular rate.
Section 2	- An employee may be assigned temporarily to perform the duties of a lower classification, but shall be compensated at his regular rate of pay.
Section 3	- CSEA Local President, or his designee, will be advised of promotions available for positions in the classified section.
Section 4	- Ten (10) copies of all Civil Service announcements regarding examinations and/or promotional opportunities will be sent to the local CSEA President for distribution.
ARTICLE XVm.
RECLASSIFICATION
Any employee, who sincerely believes that he is continually performing out-of-title work, shall have the right to confer regarding same with his immediate supervisor and shall have the right to be represented by the CSEA representative during said conference.
In the event any differences cannot be resolved, both parties shall request a hearing before the department head.
In the event the department head cannot satisfactorily resolve the differences, both parties shall submit a statement in writing to the Civil Service Commission for review. The decision of the Civil Service Commission shall be final. If a change is justified, necessary steps will be taken to correct the situation.
ARTICLE XIX.
LAYOFFS
1.	In all cases of layoffs, a reduction of forces and re-employment, the Employer shall go strictly by seniority from date of employment.
2.	The representative of CSEA shall be informed prior to any and all anticipated layoffs.
3.	The Employer will keep the seniority list up to date at all times.
page 32
4.	In the reduction of forces, the Employer shall apply the principles of seniority as follows:
A The employee in the job classification where the reduction is to take place who has the least job seniority, shall be removed from the job first.
B.	If that employee has worked in another job classification, he shall have the right to transfer back into the classification, providing he has more seniority.
5.	In the event of recall, the laid-off employee shall be given notice of recall by registered, or certified mail, sent to the address last given the Employer by the employee. Within three (3) calendar days after tender of delivery at such address of the employee’s notice, the employee must notify the Employer by registered or certified mail, or in person, of his intent to return to work Said employee must actually report to work within seven (7) calendar days. If the employee fails to comply with the above provisions, he shall lose all seniority rights under this Agreement and shall be considered as a voluntary quit.
6.	Permanent non-competitive and labor class employees within this negotiating unit with one (1) year or more of permanent continuous service who are laid off will have such lay-off governed by the process presently applicable to competitive class employees for the purpose of re-employment for future vacancies. Labor and non-competitive class employees within the negotiating units represented by CSEA if laid off, will be laid off within title on the basis of seniority, provided, however, that such employees shall not gain greater rights than they would have if they were covered by the provisions of the Civil Service Law, Sections 80 and 81 and provided, further, however, that this proposal does not extend to those employees coverage under Civil Service Law, Section 75, limited to period of the contract.
ARTICLE XX.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES FOR COUNTY EMPLOYEES
In order to establish a more harmonious and cooperative relationship between County employees, administrators and members of the County Legislature which will enhance the operation of the County of Schenectady, it is hereby declared to be the purpose of these procedures to provide a means for orderly settlement of differences, promptly and fairly as they arise and to assure equitable and proper regulations and policies of the County. The provisions of these procedures shall be reasonably construed for the accomplishment of this purpose.
Definitions:
1.	Employee - The term employee to whom this Agreement applies and whenever used, shall mean any individual employed or hired in accordance with the Civil Service Law and the local Civil Service Department and/or approved by the County Manager and who appears on the County or SCCC payroll at any given time and is within the Collective Bargaining Unit of the Schenectady County Local of the CSEA, Inc.
page 33
2.	Chief Administrator - Under this Agreement shall mean the Schenectady County Manager.
3.	Department Head - Under this Agreement shall mean the director, administrator, or head of any agency or department within the jurisdiction of and reporting directly to the Chief Administrator. This will also apply if such an individual is acting or temporary in the position of department head as defined above.
4.	Immediate Supervisor - Under this Agreement shall mean the supervisor, officer or designee (whether acting or temporary) to whom the employee is directly responsible.
5.	Representative - Under this Agreement shall mean the Union representative, or other counsel, representatives designated by the aggrieved person to act on their behalf.
6.	Temporary Employee - as defined in Section 65 of the Civil Service Law (amended by the Legislature in 1979.)
7.	Part-Time Employee - Under this Agreement shall mean one who is employed on an hourly, per diem or salaried rate of pay and who normally works less hours than the established work week within the department where they are hired.
8.	Grievance - Shall mean any claimed violation, misinterpretation, or inequitable application of this contract or any existing laws, rules, regulations or policies which relate to or involve the person in the exercise of the duties assigned to him, but grievance shall not be construed to relate to, nor shall any grievance claim be permitted concerning salary or other amount of basic compensation fixed by the County Legislature by budget action or other resolution or Local Law, or established by contract. The following compensation circumstances are subject to normal grievance procedures:
A.	Administrative errors (claimed).
B.	Misapplication of a salary or increment schedule (claimed).
C.	Inaccurate factual data (claimed), as applied to a given situation.
Procedures:
1.	Informal Stage - The aggrieved, within thirty (30) working days of the employee’s knowledge that such grievance has occurred, shall orally present his grievance to his immediate supervisor, who shall orally and informally discuss the grievance with the aggrieved person. The immediate supervisor shall render his determination to the aggrieved person within five (5) working days after the grievance has been presented to him. If such grievance is not satisfactorily resolved at this stage, the aggrieved employee may proceed to the formal stage(s).
page 34
2.	Formal Stage:
A.	Within five (5) working days after a determination has been made at the preceding stage, the aggrieved person may make a written request to the department head or his designee with a copy to the immediate supervisor for review and determination. If the department head designates a person to act in his behalf, he shall also delegate full authority to render a determination in his behalf.
B.	The department head or his designee shall render his determination in writing within five (5) working days after the written statements have been presented to him.
3.	Chief Administrator - The aggrieved person may, within ten (10) working days of the final determination by the department head, make a written request to the Chief Administrator with a copy to the department head’s office for review and determination. All written statements and records of the case shall be submitted to the Chief Administrator. The Chief Administrator or his designee shall notify all parties concerned in the case, of the time and place when an informal hearing will be held where such parties may appear and present oral and written statements supplementing their position in the case. Such hearings shall be held within ten (10) working days of receipt of the written statements pursuant to Paragraph 2B - Procedures. The Chief Administrator in any grievance procedure, shall render a decision within twenty (20) working days, unless such time is extended by mutual consent of the parties.
4.	Arbitration Stage:
A.	After such hearing, if the employee or Civil Service Employees Association are not satisfied with the decision at the Chief Administrator stage and the Civil Service Employees Association determines that the grievance is meritorious, it may submit the grievance to arbitration by written notice to the Chief Administrator within fifteen (15) working days of the decision at Stage 3.
B.	Within ten (10) working days after such written notice of submission to arbitration, the Chief Administrator and the Civil Service Employees Association will agree upon a mutually acceptable arbitrator competent in the area of the grievance, and will obtain a commitment from said arbitrator to serve. If the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator or to obtain a commitment within the specified period, a request for a list of arbitrators will be made to the Public Employment Relations Board by either party. The parties will then be bound by the rules and procedures of the Public Employment Relations Board in the selection of an arbitrator.
C.	The selected arbitrator will hear the matter promptly and will issue his decision not later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the close of the hearing, or, if oral hearings have been waived, then from the date the final statements and proofs are submitted to him. The arbitrator’s decision will be in writing and will set forth his findings of fact, reasoning and conclusions on the issues. The cost of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by both parties.
page 35
D.	The arbitrator shall have no power or authority to make any decision which requires the commission of an act prohibited by law or which is violative to the terms of this Agreement.
E.	The arbitrator’s award will be final and binding.
Basic Principles:
1.	It is the intent of these procedures to provide for the orderly settlement of differences in a fair and equitable manner. The resolution of a grievance at the earliest possible stage is encouraged.
2.	An employee shall have the right to present grievances, in accordance with these procedures, free from coercion, interference, restraint, discrimination or reprisal.
3.	An employee shall have the right to be represented at any step of the procedure by CSEA or by a representative of his own choosing, but no other employee organization may institute a grievance or represent an employee in the processing of a grievance.
4.	An employee and his representative, if a County employee, shall be allowed such time off from his regular duties as may be necessary for the processing of a grievance under the procedures without loss of pay or vacation or other time credits.
5.	Each party to a grievance shall have access at reasonable time to all written statements and records pertaining to such case.
6.	All hearings shall be confidential.
7.	It shall be the responsibility of the Chief Administrator to give force and effect to these procedures. Each administrator shall have the responsibility to consider promptly each grievance presented to him and make a determination within the authority delegated to him within the time specified in these procedures.
ARTICLE XXI.
RECIPROCAL RIGHTS
The Employer recognizes the right of the employee to designate representatives of the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., to appear on their behalf to discuss salaries, working conditions, grievances, and disputes as to the terms and conditions of this contract and to consult employees during working hours.
page 36
Section 1.
The Employer shall so administer its obligations under this contract in a manner which will be fair and impartial to all employees and shall not discriminate against any employee by reason of sex, nationality, race or creed.
Section 2.
The Schenectady County Local of the CSEA, Inc., shall have the right to post notices and other communications on bulletin boards maintained on the premises and facilities of the Employer, subject to the approval of the contents of such notices and communications by the County Manger or his designee. The officers and agents of the CSEA should have the right to visit the Employer’s facilities for the purpose of adjusting grievances and administering the terms and conditions of this contract.
Section 3.
Employees who are designated or elected for the purpose of adjusting grievances or assisting in the administration of this contract shall be permitted a reasonable amount of time free from their regular duties to fulfill these obligations, which has as their purpose the maintenance of harmonious and cooperative relations between the Employer and the employee and the uninterrupted operation of government.
Section 4.
The CSEA agrees to do its utmost to see that its members perform their respective duties loyally, efficiently and continuously under the terms of this Agreement. The CSEA and its members will use their best endeavors to protect the interests of the County of Schenectady to conserve the property, protect the public and to give service of the highest quality.
Section 5.
The president of the Schenectady County Local of CSEA shall be entitled to a private phone at a reasonable location to be used for Union business. Such phone shall also be available to other designated Union personnel for Union business. It is agreed that such phone will not be used excessively for long distance calling.
Section 6,
The President of the Schenectady County Local of CSEA shall be entitled to a maximum of ten (10) working days to be used for Union conventions to be paid for at their normal wage scale.
page 37
Section 7.
Each department head shall have the responsibility for the full operation of his department, but within and as part of that responsibility, they may allow such employees as can be permitted to leave their positions to attend conferences or workshops relating to their respective job disciplines during normal working hours. Such absences shall be at full pay, and with no charge to any other benefits; however, the County shall not be liable for any expenses connected with such conferences or workshops or other training sessions.
ARTICLE XXII.
WORKING CONDITIONS
A.	The Employer shall notify the Schenectady County Local of the CSEA, Inc. at least seven (7) days in advance of any change in working methods or working conditions, except where such change is required because of an emergency or major disaster over which the Employer has no control.
B.	All employees shall have the right to review their own personnel files in the office of the Civil Service Commission.
C.	Labor-Management Committee:
1.	A joint labor-management committee shall be continued within each County department. There shall be a minimum of three (3) CSEA representatives from each department consisting of: one departmental unit president, one departmental grievance chairman, plus one other member.
2.	This group shall meet monthly with their respective department heads and their representatives to discuss and resolve problems arising within the department.
3.	Upon ratification of this Agreement, a labor-management committee shall be formed to meet at approximately three (3) month intervals to discuss topics of mutual interest in a constructive manner. Any grievance in dispute at the time of any such meeting, shall not be a topic for discussion. Both parties to this Agreement shall have the right to name its own members to this committee. Agendas and the names of the committee members shall be exchanged at least ten (10) days prior to each such meeting.
D.	Uniforms - The Employer agrees to provide uniforms (either on a rental basis or by direct purchase) for all personnel in the Highway, custodial and maintenance classifications, and for persons employed in the Civil Service title of Security Officer. The number of uniforms shall be discussed in the labor-management meetings.
page 38
E.	Uniforms will be provided for the County Office Building “Cleaning Staff’ in addition, two sets of uniforms will be provided for:
1.	Senior Civil Engineer
2.	Junior Civil Engineer
3.	Engineering Technician II
F.	The County will provide Malpractice Insurance for all persons covered by this Agreement who provide nursing care for patients at any County-owned facility. County agrees to provide CSEA with a copy of a policy providing such insurance, as authorized and in force.
G.	Community College will provide an area for CSEA personnel, including sufficient keys as may be required to provide reasonable access thereto during normal working hours.
ARTICLE XXm.
EXISHING BENEFITS
A.	Any rights, privileges, or benefits already accorded the employees of the County of Schenectady shall not be rescinded or reduced.
B.	All existing rules, regulations, practices and benefits of the Employer which are more favorable to the employee will remain in the full force and effect during the life of this contract.
ARTICLE XXIV.
SEPARABILITY
If the enactment of legislation or a determination by a court of final jurisdiction (whether in a proceeding between the parties or one based on a similar state of facts) renders any portion of this Agreement invalid or unenforceable, it shall not affect the validity of the rest of this contract which shall remain in full force, according to the terms, and in the same manner and with the same effect as if such invalid portion had not been originally included therein.
ARTICLE XXV.
TERM OF CONTRACT
This contract shall become effective January 1, 1999, and shall continue until the close of business on December 31, 2002.
Upon written notice and with the mutual consent of the parties this contract may be re-opened during its term.
page 39
ARTICLE XXVI. LEGISLATIVE ACTION
IT IS AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES THAT ANY PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT REQUIRING LEGISLATIVE ACTION TO PERMIT ITS IMPLEMENTATION BY AMENDMENT OF LAW, OR BY PROVIDING THE ADDITIONAL FUNDS THEREFOR, SHALL NOT BECOME EFFECTIVE UNTIL THE APPROPRIATE LEGISLATIVE BODY HAS GIVEN APPROVAL.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Employer has caused its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and these presents to be signed by its duly authorized officer, and the Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., Local 1000, AFSCME, AFL-CIO, for the Schenectady County Unit of Schenectady Comity Local 847, has caused these presents to be signed by its duly authorized officer, this ________day of
October______, Nineteen Hundred and
Ninety- Nine .
APPROVED:	_
' COUNTY ATTORNEY (Deputy)
CO
CTADY, NEW
EMPLOYER
By:
ROBERT D. MCEVOY, COUNTY MAYTAG
CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATrON, INC
LOCAL 1000, AFSCME, AFL-CI
FOR/THE
SCHENECTADY COUNTY UNIT OF
^/Joanne M. DeSarbo,Local President
CTADY
NEGOTIATORS:
page 40
RESOLUTION - 86-99
Introduced by Legislator DeGeorgio:
A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE COUNTY MANAGER TO EXECUTE A FOUR YEAR AGREEMENT WITH THE SCHENECTADY COUNTY UNIT OF THE CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION, INC. FOR THE PERIOD JANUARY 1, 1999 THROUGH DECEMBER' 31, 2002
BE IT EMS CTET) by che Legislature of the County of Schenectady, as follows:
WHEREAS, after extensive negotiations during the past few months between representatives of the County and said union, agreement has been reached upon the terms of a new contract commencing January 1, 1999 and continuing until December 31, 2002 relating to terms and conditions of employment to be incorporated in a subsequent formal written contract to be executed by the parties to include the terms spelled out in the agreement between the County aro the said union, which said terms in such agreement have been explained to the members of the County Legislature and which contains the following major changes:
• Compensation
2.6-% per annum in 19 99
3.0% per annum in 2000
3.0% per annum in 2001
3.0% per annum in 2002
•	Part	Employee Fringe Benefits - Vacation and Sick
Leave accruals for part time employees will be based upon hours worked rather than on the number of years in County employ.
•	Vacation Policy - Employees who retire will be paid for vacation time carried over into the final year of employ up to the maximum of two weeks.
•	Extended Sick Leave Benefit (3S3) - ESB was modified to the advantage of employees who have large accumulations of sick leave. No employee will have to use more than 30 days of his or her own time before applying for ESB. Upon return to work the employee may use days remaining in the Sick Leave Bank only for follow-up visits to a physician in connection with the same cause which provided eligibility for the "bank".
be
page 41
RESOLVED, than the County Manager be and he hereby is authorized to enter into a four year contract on behalf of the County of Schenectady with the Schenectadv County Unit of the Cavil Service Employees Association; _nc. , subject to’the approval of the County Attorney, in accordance with the terms conditions of" employment spelled out in the Proposed Agreement between the
County and the aforesaid union for the calendar years of 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002 for all County employees in the unit represented by the azoresaid union.
STATE OF NEW YORK |
County of Schenectady L SS:	AYES	NOES	.ABSENT
Office, County Legislature J	13	o	o
i have compared the preceding copy with the original resolution adopted by the Schenectady County Legislature at a meeting held August IC, 1999'on file in this office, and I do HERESY CERTIFY the same to be a correct transcript therefrom in the whole of the original.
WITNESS my hand and the ^eal of the Schenectady County Legislature at the City of Schenectady this 11 th day or- Angus t,
One Thousand Nine Hundred and Ninety Sine
1999
SALARY STANDARD
ACCOUNTING AND STATISTICAL	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
Account Clerk	5	$20,867	$24,502
Account Clerk Typist	5	$20,867	$24,502
Assistant Microfilm Equipment Operator	5	$20,867	$24,502
Restitution Clerk	6	$21,761	$25,566
Bookkeeper	7	$22,754	$26,734
Payroll Audit Clerk	8	$23,809	$27,989
Microfilm Equipment Operator	9	$24,913	$29,318
Senior Account Clerk	9	$24,913	$29,318
Senior Account Clerk-Typist	9	$24,913	$29,318
Emergency Services Specialist	10	$26,074	$30,729
Principal Account Clerk	11	$27,355	$32,290
Senior Payroll Audit Clerk	11	$27,355	$32,290
Computer Services Specialist	13	$30,134	$35,544
Computer Technician	13	$30,134	$35,544
Principal Payroll Audit Clerk	13	$30,134	$35,544
Accountant	14	$31,638	$37,398
Sr. Microcomputer Network Coordinator	14	$31,638	$37,398
Accounting Supervisor	15	$33,299	$39,394
Financial Manager	16 .	$35,046	$41,516
BUILDING CARE AND CUSTODY			
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A	$13,240	$15,615
Laundry Worker (Jail)	4	$20,013	$23,443
Cleaner	4A	$22,871	$26,791
Maintenance Helper	4A	$22,871	$26,791
Maintenance Worker	5A	$23,787	$27,942
Cleaning Worker Supervisor	5A	$23,787	$27,942
Utility Worker	8A	$27,143	$31,928
General Mechanic	13	$30,134	$35,544
Electrician	15	$33,299	$39,394
Maintenance Construction Carpenter/Mason	15	$33,299	$39,394
Maintenance Plumber	15	$33,299	$39,394
Head General Mechanic	18	$38,941	$46,171
Head Utility Worker	18	$38,941	$46,171
* Cleaners (1A) automatically progress as follows: after one (1) full year of service to Grade 1A, Step 2; after two (2) full years of service to Grade 2, Step 1; after three (3) full years of service, to Grade 2, Step 2; after four (4) full years of service to Grade 3, Step 1; after 5 full years to Cleaner Grade 4A.
1999
SALARY STANDARD
COMMUNITY COLLEGE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A	$13,240	$15,615
Messenger	4	$20,013	$23,443
Cleaner	4A	$22,871	$26,791
Maintenance Worker	5A	$23,787	$27,942
Computer Operator	7	$22,754	$26,734
Duplicating Machine Operator	7	$22,754	$26,734
Senior Library Clerk	7	$22,754	$26,734
Utility Worker	8A	$27,143	$31,928
Custodian	8A	$27,143	$31,928
Painter	11	$27,355	$32,290
Senior Custodian	12	$28,707	$33,897
Senior Grounds Worker	12	$28,707	$33,897
Senior Maintenance Worker	12	$28,707	$33,897
Head Grounds Worker	13	$30,134	$35,544
General Mechanic	13	$30,134	$35,544
Electrician	15	$33,299	$39,394
Heating and Ventilating Technician	15	$33,299	$39,394
Head General Mechanic	18	$38,941	$46,171
Computer Systems Analyst/Programmer	18	$38,941	$46,171
ELECTIONS			
Elections Clerk	6	$21,761	$25,566
Senior Election Clerk	7	$22,754	$26,734
Principal Election Clerk	8	$23,809	$27,989
ENGINEERING			
Engineering Technician I	7	$22,754	$26,734
Engineering Technician II	10	$26,074	$30,729
Environmental and Facilities Systems Technician	15	$33,299	$39,394
Road Maintenance Supervisor	18	$38,941	$46,171
Supervisor Automotive Repairs	18	$38,941	$46,171
Assistant Facilities Engineer	19	$41,112	$48,727
Senior Road Maintenance Supervisor	19	$41,112	$48,727
Junior Civil Engineer	19	$41,112	$48,727
Senior Civil Engineer	21	$46,053	$54,678
1999
SALARY STANDARD
GENERAL CLERICAL AND OFFICE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
ADMINISTRATION			
Aging Services Aide	4	$20,013	$23,443
Clerical Aide	4	$20,013	$23,443
Clerk	4	$20,013	$23,443
Typist	4	$20,013	$23,443
Information Processing Specialist I	5	$20,867	$24,502
Motor Vehicle Representative I	5	$20,867	$24,502
Real Property Tax Service Aide	5	$20,867	$24,502
Stenographer	5	$20,867	$24,502
Consumer Affairs Investigator	7	$22,754	$26,734
Senior Clerk	7	$22,754	$26,734
Senior Typist	7	$22,754	$26,734
Information Processing Specialist II	8	$23,809	$27,989
Motor Vehicle Representative II	8	$23,809	$27,989
Senior Mail Clerk	8	$23,809	$27,989
Senior Stenographer	8	$23,809	$27,989
Social Welfare Examiner (HEAP)	8	$23,809	$27,989
Index and Recording Clerk	9	$24,913	$29,318
Executive Secretary I	10	$26,074	$30,729
Legal Secretary	10	$26,074	$30,729
Principal Clerk	10	$26,074	$30,729
Principal Index and Recording Clerk	10	$26,074	$30,729
Principal Typist	10	$26,074	$30,729
Secretary to Commissioner of Engineering	10	$26,074	$30,729
Information Processing Specialist in	11	$27,355	$32,290
Personnel Assistant	11	$27,355	$32,290
Secretary to District Attorney	11	$27,355	$32,290
Secretary to Public Defender	11	$27,355	$32,290
Fair Housing Program Coordinator	12	$28,707	$33,897
Planning Technician	12	$28,707	$33,897
Real Property Tax Service Technician	12	$28,707	$33,897
Tax Clerk I	12	$28,707	$33,897
Weights and Measures Inspector	12	$28,707	$33,897
Assistant Planner	13	$30,134	$35,544
Computer Programmer	13	$30,134	$35,544
Geographic Information Specialist	13	$30,134	$35,544
Program Coordinator-Traffic Safety Grant	13	$30,134	$35,544
Program Manager-Youth Services	13	$30,134	$35,544
Program Coordinator-Office for the Aging	14	$31,638	$37,398
Title V Training Program Coordinator - Aging	14	$31,638	$37,398
Index and Recording Supervisor	15	$33,299	$39,394
1999
SALARY STANDARD
GENERAL CLERICAL AND OFFICE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
ADMINISTRATION CONT...			
Motor Vehicle Bureau Supervisor	15	$33,299	$39,394
Senior Drafting Technician	17	$36,891	$43,701
Senior Geographical Information Specialist	17	$36,891	$43,701
Computer Systems AnalystZProgrammer	18	$38,941	$46,171
Groundwater Management Planner	18	$38,941	$46,171
Planner I	18	$38,941	$46,171
Planner II	19	$41,112	$48,727
Planner-Office for the Aging	19	$41,112	$48,727
Senior Planner	20	$43,405	$51,520
1999
SALARY STANDARD
GLENDALE HOME	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A	$13,240	$15,615
Cleaner	4A	$22,871	$26,791
Maintenance Helper	4A	$22,871	$26,791
Medical Records Clerk	5	$20,867	$24,502
Occupational Therapy Aide	5A •	$23,787	$27,942
Gardener	5A	$23,787	$27,942
Maintenance Worker	5A	$23,787	$27,942
Motor Equipment Operator (Light)	6	$21,761	$25,566
Diet Technician	11	$27,355	$32,290
Physical Therapy Assistant (40 hours)	12	$28,707	$33,897
Assistant Cleaning & Maintenance Supervisor	13	$30,134	$35,544
Micro Computer Network Coordinator	13	$30,134	$35,544
Sr. Micro Computer Network Coordinator LAW	14	$31,638	$37,398
Probation Assistant	7	$22,754	$26,734
Security Officer	9	$24,913	$29,318
Crime Victims Services Assistant	10	$26,074	$30,729
Crime Victims Services Coordinator	13	$30,134	$35,544
Investigator	13	$30,134	$35,544
Probation Officer Trainee	13	$30,134	$35,544
Probation Officer	14	$31,638	$37,398
Confidential Investigator	14	$31,368	$37,398
Senior Probation Officer	16	$35,046	$41,516
Alternatives to Incarceration Coordinator	16 .	$35,046	$41,516
Probation Supervisor	18	$38,941	$46,171
Confidential Target Criminal Investigator LIBRARY	18	$38,941	$46,171
Book Repairer	4	$20,013	$23,443
Library Clerk	4	$20,013	$23,443
Library Typist	4	$20,013	$23,443
Janitor	5	$20,867	$24,502
Custodian	7	$22,754	$26,734
Duplicating Machine Operator	7	$22,754	$26,734
Senior Library Clerk	7	$22,754	$26,734
Senior Library Typist	7	$22,754	$26,734
Principal Library Clerk	10	$26,074	$30,729
Senior Maintenance Worker	12	$28,707	$33,897
Library Assistant	13	$30,134	$35,544
Librarian I	15	$33,299	$39,394
Librarian II	17	$36,891	$43,701
Librarian HI	18	$38,941	$46,171
Librarian IV	20	$43,405	$51,520
1999
SALARY STANDARD
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
Air Traffic Controller Trainee	13	$30,134	$35,544
Air Traffic Controller	14	$31,638	$37,398
Senior Air Traffic Controller	15	$33,299	$39,394
PUBLIC HEALTH			
Public Health Outreach Worker	2	$18,410	$21,550
Certified Home Health Aide	2	$18,410	$21,550
Senior Public Health Outreach Worker	4	$20,013	$23,443
Environmental Health Aide	7	$22,754	$26,734
Public Health Technician	10	$26,074	$30,729
Registered Professional Nurse	14	$31,638	$37,398
Early Intervention Care Coordinator	14	$31,638	$37,398
Community Health Nurse	15	$33,299	$39,394
Public Health Sanitarian	15	$33,299	$39,394
Community Health Social Worker	18	$38,941	$46,171
Supervising Community Health Nurse	18	$38,941	$46,171
Senior Public Health Sanitarian	18	$38,941	$46,171
Early Education Specialist	19	$41,112	$48,727
SCHENECTADY JOB TRAINING AGENCY			
Employment & Training Assistant	7	$22,754	$26,734
Case Management Specialist	10	$26,074	$30,729
Skilled Groundswork Instructor	10	$26,074	$30,729
Skilled Maintenance Instructor	10	$26,074	$30,729
Youth/Adult Program Team Leader	10	$26,074	$30,729
Senior Employment & Training Assistant	11	$27,355	$32,290
Employment and Training Counselor Trainee	13	$30,134	$35,544
Employment and Training Financial Coordinator	13	$30,134	$35,544
Employment and Training Coordinator	13	$30,134	$35,544
Employment and Training Counselor	14	$31,638	$37,398
Recruitment Coordinator	14	$31,638	$37,398
Vocational Specialist	14	$31,638	$37,398
Senior Employment and Training Counselor	15	$33,299	$39,394
Substance Abuse Counselor	15	$33,299	$39,394
Employee Assistance Program Coordinator	16	$35,046	$41,516
Principal Employment & Training Coordinator	16	$35,046	$41,516
Principal Employment & Training Counselor	16	$35,046	$41,516
Transition to Employment Coordinator	16	$35,046	$41,516
Employment and Training Program Planner	20	$43,405	$51,520
Employment and Training Program Supervisor	20	$43,405	$51,520
1999
SALARY STANDARD
SOCIAL SERVICES	GRADE	MIMIMUM	MAXIMUM
Data Entry Machine Operator	4	$20,013	$23,443
Van Driver	4	$20,013	$23,443
Support Investigator	7	$22,754	$26,734
Senior Data Entry Machine Operator	7	$22,754	$26,734
Social Welfare Examiner	8	$23,809	$27,989
Senior Support Investigator	8	$23,809	$27,989
Senior Social Welfare Examiner	9	$24,913	$29,318
Principal Social Welfare Examiner	12	$28,707	$33,897
Caseworker Trainee	13	$30,134	$35,544
Social Services Investigator	13	$30,134	$35,544
Chief Social Welfare Examiner	14	$31,638	$37,398
Caseworker	14	$31,638	$37,398
Senior Caseworker	15	$33,299	$39,394
Supervising Social Services Investigator	15	$33,299	$39,394
Supervising Support Investigator	15	$33,299	$39,394
Case Supervisor “B”	16 .	$35,046	$41,516
Family Assessment Specialist	16	$35,046	$41,516
Family Intervention Specialist	16	$35,046	$41,516
Managed Care Coordinator	16	$35,046	$41,516
Training Coordinator “B”	16	$35,046	$41,516
Case Supervisor “A”	18	$38,941	$46,171
Coordinator-Child Support Enforcement Unit	20	$43,405	$51,520
2000
SALARY STANDARD
ACCOUNTING AND STATISTICAL	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
Account Clerk	5	$21,493	$25,238
Account Clerk Typist	5	$21,493	$25,238
Assistant Microfilm Equipment Operator	5	$21,493	$25,238
Restitution Clerk	6	$22,414	$26,334
Bookkeeper	7	$23,437	$27,537
Payroll Audit Clerk	8	$24,523	$28,828
Microfilm Equipment Operator	9	$25,660	$30,195
Senior Account Clerk	9	$25,660	$30,195
Senior Account Clerk-Typist	9	$25,660	$30,195
Emergency Services Specialist	10	$26,856	$31,651
Principal Account Clerk	11	$28,176	$33,261
Senior Payroll Audit Clerk	11	$28,176	$33,261
Computer Services Specialist	13	$31,038	$36,608
Computer Technician	13	$31,038	$36,608
Principal Payroll Audit Clerk	13	$31,038	$36,608
Accountant	14	$32,587	$38,522
Senior Micro Computer Network Coordinator	14	$32,587	$38,522
Accounting Supervisor	15	$34,298	$40,578
Financial Manger	16	$36,097	$42,762
BUILDING CARE AND CUSTODY			
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A .	$13,637	$16,082
Laundry Worker (Jail)	4	$20,613	$24,148
Cleaner	4A	$23,557	$27,597
Maintenance Helper	4A	$23,557	$27,597
Maintenance Worker	5A	$24,501	$28,781
Cleaning Working Supervisor	5A	$24,501	$28,781
Utility Worker	8A	$27,957	$32,887
General Mechanic	13	$31,038	$36,608
Electrician	15	$34,298	$40,578
Maintenance Construction Carpenter/Mason	15	$34,298	$40,578
Maintenance Plumber	15	$34,298	$40,578
Head General Mechanic	18	$40,109	$47,554
Head Utility	18	$40,109	$47,554
* Cleaners (1 A) automatically progress as follows: after one (1) full year of service to Grade 1A, Step 2; after two (2) full years of service to Grade 2, Step 1; after three (3) full years of service, to Grade 2, Step 2; after four (4) full years to Grade 3, Step 1; after five (5) full years to Cleaner Grade 4A.
2000
SALARY STANDARD
COMMUNITY COLLEGE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A	$13,637	$16,082
Messenger	4	$20,613	$24,148
Cleaner	4A	$23,557	$27,597
Maintenance Worker	5A	$24,501	$28,781
Computer Operator	7	$23,437	$27,537
Duplicating Machine Operator	7	$23,437	$27,537
Senior Library Clerk	7	$23,437	$27,537
Utility Worker	8A	$27,957	$32,887
Custodian	8A	$27,957	$32,887
Painter	11	$28,176	$33,261
Senior Custodian	12	$29,568	$34,913
Senior Grounds Worker	12	$29,568	$34,913
Senior Maintenance Worker	12	$29,568	$34,913
Head Grounds Worker	13	$31,038	$36,608
General Mechanic	13	$31,038	$36,608
Electrician	15	$34,298	$40,578
Heating and Ventilating Technician	15	$34,298	$40,578
Head General Mechanic	18	$40,109	$47,554
Computer Systems Analyst/Programmer	18	$40,109	$47,554
ELECTIONS			
Elections Clerk	6	$22,414	$26,334
Senior Election Clerk	7	$23,437	$27,537
Principal Election Clerk	8	$24,523	$28,828
ENGINEERING			
Engineering Technician I	7	$23,437	$27,537
Engineering Technician II	10	$26,856	$31,651
Environmental and Facilities Systems Technician	15	$34,298	$40,578
Road Maintenance Supervisor	18	$40,109	$47,554
Supervisor Automotive Repairs	18	$40,109	$47,554
Assistant Facilities Engineer	19	$42,345	$50,190
Senior Road Maintenance Supervisor	19	$42,345	$50,190
Junior Civil Engineer	19	$42,345	$50,190
Senior Civil Engineer	21	$47,435	$56,320
2000
SALARY STANDARD
GENERAL CLERICAL & OFFICE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
ADMINISTRATION			
Aging Services Aide	4	$20,613	$24,148
Clerical Aide	4	$20,613	$24,148
Clerk	4	$20,613	$24,148
Typist	4	$20,613	$24,148
Information Processing Specialist I	5	$21,493	$25,238
Motor Vehicle Representative I	5	$21,493	$25,238
Real Property Tax Service Aide	5	$21,493	$25,238
Stenographer	5	$21,493	$25,238
Consumer Affairs Investigator	7	$23,437	$27,537
Senior Clerk	7	$23,437	$27,537
Senior Typist	7	$23,437	$27,537
Information Processing Specialist II	8	$24,523	$28,828
Motor Vehicle Representative II	8	$24,523	$28,828
Senior Mail Clerk	8 .	$24,523	$28,828
Senior Stenographer	8	$24,523	$28,828
Social Welfare Examiner (HEAP)	8	$24,523	$28,828
Index & Recording Clerk	9	$25,660	$30,195
Executive Secretary I	10	$26,856	$31,651
Legal Secretary	10	$26,856	$31,651
Principal Clerk	10	$26,856	$31,651
Principal Index and Recording Clerk	10	$26,856	$31,651
Principal Typist	10	$26,856	$31,651
Secretary to Commissioner of Engineering	10	$26,856	$31,651
Information Processing Specialist HI	11	$28,176	$33,261
Personnel Assistant	11	$28,176	$33,261
Secretary to District Attorney	11	$28,176	$33,261
Secretary to the Public Defender	11	$28,176	$33,261
Fair Housing Program Coordinator	12	$29,568	$34,913
Planning Technician	12	$29,568	$34,913
Real Property Tax Service Technician	12	$29,568	$34,913
Tax Clerk I	12	$29,568	$34,913
Weights and Measures Inspector	12	$29,568	$34,913
Assistant Planner	13	$31,038	$36,608
Computer Programmer	13	$31,038	$36,608
Geographic Information Specialist	13	$31,038	$36,608
Program Coordinator-Traffic Safety Grant	13	$31,038	$36,608
Program Manager-Youth Services	13	$31,038	$36,608
Program Coordinator-Office for Aging	14	$32,587	$38,522
Title V Training Program Coordinator-Aging	14	$32,587	$38,522
Index and Recording Supervisor	15	$34,298	$40,578
2000
SALARY STANDARD
GENERAL CLERICAL AND OFFICE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
ADMINISTRATION CONT...			
Motor Vehicle Bureau Supervisor	15	$34,298	$40,578
Senior Drafting Technician	17	$37,998	$45,013
Senior Geographic Information Specialist	17	$37,998	$45,013
Computer Systems Analyst/Programmer	18	$40,109	$47,554
Groundwater Management Planner	18	$40,109	$47,554
Planner I	18	$40,109	$47,554
Planner H	19	$42,345	$50,190
Planner-Office for the Aging	19	$42,345	$50,190
Senior Planner	20	$44,707	$53,067
2000
SALARY STANDARD
GLENDALE HOME	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A	$13,637	$16,082
Cleaner	4A	$23,557	$27,597
Maintenance Helper	4A	$23,557	$27,597
Medical Records Clerk	5	$21,493	$25,238
Occupational Therapy Aide	5A	$24,501	$28,781
Gardener	5A	$24,501	$28,781
Maintenance Worker	5A	$24,501	$28,781
Motor Equipment Operator (Light)	6	$22,414	$26,334
Diet Technician	11 ■	$28,176	$33,261
Physical Therapy Assistant (40 hours)	12	$29,568	$34,913
Assistant Cleaning & Maintenance Supervisor	13	$31,038	$36,608
Micro Computer Network Coordinator	13	$31,038	$36,608
Sr. Micro Computer Network Coordinator	14	$32,587	$38,522
LAW			
Probation Assistant	7	$23,437	$27,537
Security Officer	9	$25,660	$30,195
Crime Victims Services Assistant	10	$26,856	$31,651
Crime Victims Services Coordinator	13	$31,038	$36,608
Investigator	13	$31,038	$36,608
Probation Officer Trainee	13	$31,038	$36,608
Probation Officer	14	$32,587	$38,522
Confidential Investigator	14	$32,587	$38,522
Senior Probation Officer	16	$36,097	$42,762
Alternatives to Incarceration Coordinator	16	$36,097	$42,762
Probation Supervisor	18	$40,109	$47,554
Confidential Target Criminal Investigator	18	$40,109	$47,554
LIBRARY			
Book Repairer	4	$20,613	$24,148
Library Clerk	4	$20,613	$24,148
Library Typist	4	$20,613	$24,148
Janitor	5	$21,493	$25,238
Custodian	7	$23,437	$27,537
Duplicating Machine Operator	7	$23,437	$27,537
Senior Library Clerk	7	$23,437	$27,537
Senior Library Typist	7	$23,437	$27,537
Principal Library Clerk	10	$26,856	$31,651
Senior Maintenance Worker	12	$29,568	$34,913
Library Assistant	13	$31,038	$36,608
Librarian I	15	$34,298	$40,578
Librarian II	17	$37,998	$45,013
Librarian HI	18	$40,109	$47,554
Librarian IV	20	$44,707	$53,067
2000
SALARY STANDARD
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
Air Traffic Controller Trainee	13	$31,038	$36,608
Air Traffic Controller	14	$32,587	$38,522
Senior Air Traffic Controller	15	$34,298	$40,578
PUBLIC HEALTH			
Public Health Outreach Worker	2	$18,962	$22,197
Certified Home Health Aide	2	$18,962	$22,197
Senior Public Health Outreach Worker	4	$20,613	$24,148
Environmental Health Aide	7	$23,437	$27,537
Public Health Technician	10	$26,856	$31,651
Registered Professional Nurse	14	$32,587	$38,522
Early Intervention Care Coordinator	14	$32,587	$38,522
Community Health Nurse	15	$34,298	$40,578
Public Health Sanitarian	15	$34,298	$40,578
Community Health Social Worker	18	$40,109	$47,554
Supervising Community Health Nurse	18	$40,109	$47,554
Senior Public Health Sanitarian	18	$40,109	$47,554
Early Education Specialist	19	$42,345	$50,190
SCHENECTADY JOB TRAINING AGENCY			
Employment and Training Assistant	7	$23,437	$27,537
Case Management Specialist	10	$26,856	$31,651
Skilled Groundswork Instructor	10	$26,856	$31,651
Skilled Maintenance Instructor	10	$26,856	$31,651
Youth/Adult Program Team Leader	10	$26,856	$31,651
Senior Employment & Training Assistant	11	$28,176	$33,261
Employment and Training Counselor Trainee	13	$31,038	$36,608
Employment and Training Financial Coordinator	13	$31,038	$36,608
Employment and Training Coordinator	13	$31,038	$36,608
Employment and Training Counselor	14	$32,587	$38,522
Recruitment Coordinator	14	$32,587	$38,522
Vocational Specialist	14	$32,587	$38,522
Senior Employment & Training Counselor	15	$34,298	$40,578
Substance Abuse Counselor	15	$34,298	$40,578
Employee Assistance Program Coordinator	16	$36,097	$42,762
Principal Employment and Training Coordinator	16	$36,097	$42,762
Principal Employment and Training Counselor	16	$36,097	$42,762
Transition to Employment Coordinator	16	$36,097	$42,762
Employment and Training Program Planner	20	$44,707	$53,067
Employment and Training Program Supervisor	20	$44,707	$53,067
2000
SALARY STANDARD
SOCIAL SERVICES	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
Data Entry Machine Operator	4	$20,613	$24,148
Van Driver	4	$20,613	$24,148
Support Investigator	7	$23,437	$27,537
Senior Data Entry Machine Operator	7	$23,437	$27,537
Social Welfare Examiner	8	$24,523	$28,828
Senior Support Investigator	8	$24,523	$28,828
Senior Social Welfare Examiner	9	$25,660	$30,195
Principal Social Welfare Examiner	12	$29,568	$34,913
Caseworker Trainee	13	$31,038	$36,608
Social Services Investigator	13	$31,038	$36,608
Chief Social Welfare Examiner	14	$32,587	$38,522
Caseworker	14	$32,587	$38,522
Senior Caseworker	15	$34,298	$40,578
Supervising Social Services Investigator	15	$34,298	$40,578
Supervising Support Investigator	15	$34,298	$40,578
Case Supervisor “B”	16	$36,097	$42,762
Family Assessment Specialist	16	$36,097	$42,762
Family Intervention Specialist	16	$36,097	$42,762
Managed Care Coordinator	16	$36,097	$42,762
Training Coordinator “B”	16	$36,097	$42,762
Case Supervisor “A”	18	$40,109	$47,554
Coordinator-Child Support Enforcement Unit	20	$44,707	$53,067
2001
SALARY STANDARD
ACCOUNTING AND STATISTICAL Account Clerk
Account Clerk Typist
Assistant Microfilm Equipment Operator
Restitution Clerk
Bookkeeper
Payroll Audit Clerk
Microfilm Equipment Operator
Senior Account Clerk
Senior Account Clerk-Typist
Emergency Services Specialist
Principal Account Clerk
Senior Payroll Audit Clerk
Computer Services Specialist
Computer Technician
Principal Payroll Audit Clerk Accountant
Sr. Micro Computer Network Coordinator
Accounting Supervisor
Financial Manager
BUILDING CARE AND CUSTODY
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)
Laundry Worker (Jail)
Cleaner
Maintenance Helper
Maintenance Worker
Cleaning Working Supervisor
Utility Worker
General Mechanic
Electrician
Maintenance Construction Carpenter/Mason Maintenance Plumber
Head General Mechanic
Head Utility Worker
GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
5	$22,138	$25,993
5	$22,138	$25,993
5	$22,138	$25,993
6	$23,086	$27,126
7	$24,140	$28,365
8	$25,259	$29,694
9	$26,430	$31,100
9	$26,430	$31,100
9	$26,430	$31,100
10	$27,662	$32,602
11	$29,021	$34,261
11	$29,021	$34,261
13	$31,969	$37,704
13	$31,969	$37,704
13	$31,969	$37,704
14	$33,565	$39,680
14	$33,565	$39,680
15	$35,327	$41,797
16	$37,180	$44,045
1A	$14,046	$16,566
4	$21,231	$24,871
4A	$24,264	$28,424
4A	$24,264	$28,424
5A	$25,236	$29,646
5A	$25,236	$29,646
8A	$28,796	$33,876
13	$31,969	$37,704
15	$35,327	$41,797
15	$35,327	$41,797
15	$35,327	$41,797
18	$41,312	$48,982
18	$41,312	$48,982
* Cleaners (1 A) automatically progress as follows: after one (1) full year of service to Grade 1A, Step 2; after two (2) full years of service to Grade 2, Step 1; after three (3) full years of service, to Grade 2, Step 2; after four (4) full years to Grade 3, Step 1; after five (5) full years to Cleaner Grade 4A.
2001
SALARY STANDARD
COMMUNITY COLLEGE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A	$14,046	$16,566
Messenger	4	$21,231	$24,871
Cleaner	4A	$24,264	$28,424
Maintenance Worker	5A	$25,236	$29,646
Computer Operator	7	$24,140	$28,365
Duplicating Machine Operator	7	$24,140	$28,365
Senior Library Clerk	7	$24,140	$28,365
Utility Worker	8A	$28,796	$33,876
Custodian	8A	$28,796	$33,876
Painter	11	$29,021	$34,261
Senior Custodian	12	$30,455	$35,960
Senior Grounds Worker	12	$30,455	$35,960
Senior Maintenance Worker	12	$30,455	$35,960
Head Grounds Worker	13 .	$31,969	$37,704
General Mechanic	13	$31,969	$37,704
Electrician	15	$35,327	$41,797
Heating and Ventilating Technician	15	$35,327	$41,797
Head General Mechanic	18	$41,312	$48,982
Computer Systems Analyst/Programmer	18	$41,312	$48,982
ELECTIONS			
Elections Clerk	6	$23,086	$27,126
Senior Election Clerk	7	$24,140	$28,365
Principal Election Clerk	8	$25,259	$29,694
ENGINEERING			
Engineering Technician I	7	$24,140	$28,365
Engineering Technician II	10	$27,662	$32,602
Environmental & Facilities Systems Technician	15	$35,327	$41,797
Road Maintenance Supervisor	18	$41,312	$48,982
Supervisor Automotive Repairs	18	$41,312	$48,982
Assistant Facilities Engineer	19	$43,615	$51,695
Senior Road Maintenance Supervisor	19	$43,615	$51,695
Junior Civil Engineer	19	$43,615	$51,695
Senior Civil Engineer	21	$48,858	$58,008
2001
SALARY STANDARD
GENERAL CLERICAL & OFFICE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
ADMINISTRATION			
Aging Services Aide	4	$21,231	$24,871
Clerical Aide	4	$21,231	$24,871
Clerk	4	$21,231	$24,871
Typist	4	$21,231	$24,871
Information Processing Specialist I	5	$22,138	$25,993
Motor Vehicle Representative I	5	$22,138	$25,993
Real Property Tax Service Aide	5	$22,138	$25,993
Stenographer	5	$22,138	$25,993
Consumer Affairs Investigator	7	$24,140	$28,365
Senior Clerk	7	$24,140	$28,365
Senior Typist	7	$24,140	$28,365
Information Processing Specialist II	8	$25,259	$29,694
Motor Vehicle Representative II	8	$25,259	$29,694
Senior Mail Clerk	8	$25,259	$29,694
Senior Stenographer	8	$25,259	$29,694
Social Welfare Examiner (HEAP)	8	$25,259	$29,694
Index and Recording Clerk	9	$26,430	$31,100
Executive Secretary I	10	$27,662	$32,602
Legal Secretary	10 .	$27,662	$32,602
Principal Clerk	10	$27,662	$32,602
Principal Index and Recording Clerk	10	$27,662	$32,602
Principal Typist	10	$27,662	$32,602
Secretary to Commissioner of Engineering	10	$27,662	$32,602
Information Processing Specialist III	11	$29,021	$34,261
Personnel Assistant	11	$29,021	$34,261
Secretary to District Attorney	11	$29,021	$34,261
Secretary to the Public Defender	11	$29,021	$34,261
Fair Housing Program Coordinator	12	$30,455	$35,960
Planning Technician	12	$30,455	$35,960
Real Property Tax Service Technician	12	$30,455	$35,960
Tax Clerk I	12	$30,455	$35,960
Weights and Measures Inspector	12	$30,455	$35,960
Assistant Planner	13	$31,969	$37,704
Computer Programmer	13	$31,969	$37,704
Geographic Information Specialist	13	$31,969	$37,704
Program Coordinator-Traffic Safety Grant	13	$31,969	$37,704
Program Manager-Youth Services	13	$31,969	$37,704
Program Coordinator-Office for the Aging	14	$33,565	$39,680
Title V Training Program Coordinator-Aging	14 ‘	$33,565	$39,680
Index and Recording Supervisor	15	$35,327	$41,797
Motor Vehicle Bureau Supervisor	15	$35,327	$41,797
2001
SALARY STANDARD
GENERAL CLERICAL AND	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
OFFICE ADMINISTRATION CONT...			
Senior Drafting Technician	17	$39,138	$46,363
Senior Geographic Information Specialist	17	$39,138	$46,363
Computer Systems Analyst/Programmer	18	$41,312	$48,982
Groundwater Management Planner	18	$41,312	$48,982
Planner I	18	$41,312	$48,982
Planner II	19	$43,615	$51,695
Planner-Office for Aging	19	$43,165	$51,695
Senior Planner	20	$46,048	$54,658
2001
SALARY STANDARD
GLENDALE HOME	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A	$14,046	$16,566
Cleaner	4A	$24,264	$28,424
Maintenance Helper	4A	$24,264	$28,424
Medical Records Clerk	5	$22,138	$25,993
Occupational Therapy Aide	5A	$25,236	$29,646
Gardener	5A	$25,236	$29,646
Maintenance Worker	5A	$25,236	$29,646
Motor Equipment Operator (light)	6	$23,086	$27,126
Diet Technician	11	$29,021	$34,261
Physical Therapy Assistant (40 hours)	12	$30,455	$35,960
Assistant Cleaning and Maintenance Supervisor	13	$31,969	$37,704
Micro Computer Network Coordinator	13	$31,969	$37,704
Sr. Micro Computer Network Coordinator LAW	14 .	$33,565	$39,680
Probation Assistant	7	$24,140	$28,365
Security Officer	9	$26,430	$31,100
Crime Victims Services Assistant	10	$27,662	$32,602
Crime Victims Services Coordinator	13	$31,969	$37,704
Investigator	13	$31,969	$37,704
Probation Officer - Trainee	13	$31,969	$37,704
Probation Officer	14	$33,565	$39,680
Confidential Investigator	14	$33,565	$39,680
Senior Probation Officer	16	$37,180	$44,045
Alternatives to Incarceration Coordinator	16	$37,180	$44,045
Probation Supervisor	18	$41,312	$48,982
Confidential Target Criminal Investigator LIBRARY	18	$41,312	$48,982
Book Repairer	4	$21,231	$24,871
Library Clerk	4	$21,231	$24,871
Library Typist	4	$21,231	$24,871
Janitor	5	$22,138	$25,993
Custodian	7	$24,140	$28,365
Duplicating Machine Operator	7	$24,140	$28,365
Senior Library Clerk	7	$24,140	$28,365
Senior Library Typist	7	$24,140	$28,365
Principal Library Clerk	10	$27,662	$32,602
Senior Maintenance Worker	12	$30,455	$35,960
Library Assistant	13	$31,969	$37,704
Librarian I	15	$35,327	$41,797
Librarian II	17	$39,138	$46,363
Librarian HI	18	$41,312	$48,982
Librarian TV	20	$46,048	$54,658
2001
SALARY STANDARD
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
Air Traffic Controller Trainee	13	$31,969	$37,704
Air Traffic Controller	14	$33,565	$39,680
Senior Air Traffic Controller	15	$35,327	$41,797
PUBLIC HEALTH			
Public Health Outreach Worker	2	$19,531	$22,861
Certified Home Health Aide	2	$19,531	$22,861
Senior Public Health Outreach Worker	4	$21,231	$24,871
Environmental Health Aide	7	$24,140	$28,365
Public Health Technician	10	$27,662	$32,602
Registered Professional Nurse	14	$33,565	$39,680
Early Intervention Care Coordinator	14	$33,565	$39,680
Community Health Nurse	15	$35,327	$41,797
Public Health Sanitarian	15	$35,327	$41,797
Community Health Social Worker	18	$41,312	$48,982
Supervising Community Health Nurse	18	$41,312	$48,982
Senior Public Health Sanitarian	18	$41,312	$48,982
Early Education Specialist	19	$43,615	$51,695
SCHENECTADY JOB TRAINING AGENCY			
Employment & Training Assistant	7	$24,140	$28,365
Case Management Specialist	10	$27,662	$32,602
Skilled Groundswork Instructor	10	$27,662	$32,602
Skilled Maintenance Instructor	10	$27,662	$32,602
Youth/Adult Program Team Leader	10	$27,662	$32,602
Senior Employment and Training Assistant	11	$29,021	$34,261
Employment and Training Counselor Trainee	13	$31,969	$37,704
Employment and Training Financial Coordinator	13	$31,969	$37,704
Employment and Training Coordinator	13	$31,969	$37,704
Employment and Training Counselor	14	$33,565	$39,680
Recruitment Coordinator	14	$33,565	$39,680
Vocational Specialist	14	$33,565	$39,680
Senior Employment and Training Counselor	15	$35,327	$41,797
Substance Abuse Counselor	15	$35,327	$41,797
Employee Assistance Program Coordinator	16	$37,180	$44,045
Principal Employment & Training Coordinator	16	$37,180	$44,045
Principal Employment & Training Counselor	16	$37,180	$44,045
Transition to Employment Coordinator	16	$37,180	$44,045
Employment and Training Program Planner	20	$46,048	$54,658
Employment and Training Program Supervisor	20	$46,048	$54,658
2001
SALARY STANDARD
SOCIAL SERVICES	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
Data Entry Machine Operator	4	$21,231	$24,871
Van Driver	4	$21,231	$24,871
Support Investigator	7	$24,140	$28,365
Senior Data Entry Machine Operator	7	$24,140	$28,365
Social Welfare Examiner	8	$25,259	$29,694
Senior Support Investigator	8	$25,259	$29,694
Senior Social Welfare Examiner	9	$26,430	$31,100
Principal Social Welfare Examiner	12	$30,455	$35,960
Caseworker Trainee	13	$31,969	$37,704
Social Services Investigator	13	$31,969	$37,704
Chief Social Welfare Examiner	14	$33,565	$39,680
Caseworker	14	$33,565	$39,680
Senior Caseworker	15	$35,327	$41,797
Supervising Social Services Investigator	15	$35,327	$41,797
Supervising Support Investigator	15	$35,327	$41,797
Case Supervisor “B”	16	$37,180	$44,045
Family Assessment Specialist	16	$37,180	$44,045
Family Intervention Specialist	16	$37,180	$44,045
Managed Care Coordinator	16	$37,180	$44,045
Training Coordinator “B”	16	$37,180	$44,045
Case Supervisor “A”	18	$41,312	$48,982
Coordinator-Child Support Enforcement Unit	20	$46,048	$54,658
2002
SALARY STANDARD
ACCOUNTING AND STATISTICAL	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
Account Clerk	5	$22,802	$26,772
Account Clerk-Typist	5	$22,802	$26,772
Assistant Microfilm Equipment Operator	5	$22,802	$26,772
Restitution Clerk	6	$23,779	$27,939
Bookkeeper	7	$24,864	$29,214
Payroll Audit Clerk	8	$26,017	$30,587
Microfilm Equipment Operator	9	$27,223	$32,033
Senior Account Clerk	9	$27,223	$32,033
Senior Account Clerk-Typist	9	$27,223	$32,033
Emergency Services Specialist	10	$28,492	$33,582
Principal Account Clerk	11	$29,892	$35,287
Senior Payroll Audit Clerk	11 -	$29,892	$35,287
Computer Services Specialist	13	$32,928	$38,833
Computer Technician	13	$32,928	$38,833
Principal Payroll Audit Clerk	13	$32,928	$38,833
Accountant	14	$34,572	$40,872
Senior Micro Computer Network Coordinator	14	$34,572	$40,872
Accounting Supervisor	15	$36,387	$43,052
Financial Manager	16	$38,295	$45,365
BUILDING CARE AND CUSTODY			
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A	$14,467	$17,062
Laundry Worker (Jail)	4	$21,868	$25,618
Cleaner	4A	$24,992	$29,277
Maintenance Helper	4A	$24,992	$29,277
Maintenance Worker	5A	$25,993	$30,533
Cleaning Working Supervisor	5A	$25,993	$30,533
Utility Worker	8A	$29,660	$34,890
General Mechanic	13	$32,928	$38,833
Electrician	15	$36,387	$43,052
Maintenance Construction Carpenter/Mason	15	$36,387	$43,052
Maintenance Plumber	15	$36,387	$43,052
Head General Mechanic	18	$42,551	$50,451
Head Utility Worker	18	$42,551	$50,451
* Cleaners (1 A) automatically progress as follows: after one (1) full year of service to Grade 1A, Step 2; after two (2) full years of service to Grade 2, Step 1; after three (3) full years of service, to Grade 2, Step 2; after four (4) full years to Grade 3, Step 1; after five (5) full years to Cleaner Grade 4A.
2002
SALARY STANDARD
COMMUNITY COLLEGE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A	$14,467	$17,062
Messenger	4	$21,868	$25,618
Cleaner	4A	$24,992	$29,277
Maintenance Worker	5A	$25,993	$30,533
Computer Operator	7	$24,864	$29,214
Duplicating Machine Operator	7	$24,864	$29,214
Senior Library Clerk	7	$24,864	$29,214
Utility Worker	8A	$29,660	$34,890
Custodian	8A	$29,660	$34,890
Painter	11	$29,892	$35,287
Senior Custodian	12	$31,369	$37,039
Senior Grounds Worker	12	$31,369	$37,039
Senior Maintenance Worker	12	$31,369	$37,039
Head Grounds Worker	13	$32,928	$38,833
General Mechanic	13	$32,928	$38,833
Electrician	15	$36,387	$43,052
Heating and Ventilating Technician	15 .	$36,387	$43,052
Head General Mechanic	18	$42,551	$50,541
Computer Systems Analyst/Programmer	18	$42,551	$50,541
ELECTIONS			
Elections Clerk	6	$23,779	$27,939
Senior Election Clerk	7	$24,864	$29,214
Principal Election Clerk	8	$26,017	$30,587
ENGINEERING			
Engineering Technician I	7	$24,864	$29,214
Engineering Technician II	10	$28,492	$33,582
Environmental and Facilities Systems Technician	15	$36,387	$43,052
Road Maintenance Supervisor	18	$42,551	$50,451
Supervisor Automotive Repairs	18	$42,551	$50,451
Assistant Facilities Engineer	19	$44,923	$53,243
Senior Road Maintenance Supervisor	19	$44,923	$53,243
Junior Civil Engineer	19	$44,923	$53,243
Senior Civil Engineer	21	$50,324	$59,749
2002
SALARY STANDARD
GENERAL CLERICAL AND OFFICE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
ADMINISTRATION			
Aging Services Aide	4	$21,868	$25,618
Clerical Aide	4	$21,868	$25,618
Clerk	4	$21,868	$25,618
Typist	4	$21,868	$25,618
Information Processing Specialist I	5	$22,802	$26,772
Motor Vehicle Representative I	5	$22,802	$26,772
Real Property Tax Service Aide	5	$22,802	$26,772
Stenographer	5	$22,802	$26,772
Consumer Affairs Investigator	7	$24,864	$29,214
Senior Clerk	7	$24,864	$29,214
Senior Typist	7	$24,864	$29,214
Information Processing Specialist II	8	$26,017	$30,587
Motor Vehicle Representative II	8	$26,017	$30,587
Senior Mail Clerk	8	$26,017	$30,587
Senior Stenographer	8	$26,017	$30,587
Social Welfare Examiner (HEAP)	8	$26,017	$30,587
Index and Recording Clerk	9	$27,223	$32,033
Executive Secretary I	10	$28,492	$33,582
Legal Secretary	10	$28,492	$33,582
Principal Clerk	10	$28,492	$33,582
Principal Index and Recording Clerk	10	$28,492	$33,582
Principal Typist	10	$28,492	$33,582
Secretary to Commissioner of Engineering	10	$28,492	$33,582
Information Processing Specialist DI	11	$29,892	$35,287
Personnel Assistant	11	$29,892	$35,287
Secretary to District Attorney	11	$29,892	$35,287
Secretary to the Public Defender	11	$29,892	$35,287
Fair Housing Program Coordinator	12	$31,369	$37,039
Planning Technician	12	$31,369	$37,039
Real Property Tax Service Technician	12	$31,369	$37,039
Tax Clerk I	12	$31,369	$37,039
Weights and Measures Inspector	12	$31,369	$37,039
Assistant Planner	13	$32,928	$38,833
Computer Programmer	13	$32,928	$38,833
Geographic Information Specialist	13	$32,928	$38,833
Program Coordinator-Traffic Safety Grant	13	$32,928	$38,833
Program Manager-Youth Services	13	$32,928	$38,833
Program Coordinator-Office for Aging	14	$34,572	$40,872
Title V Training Program Coordinator-Aging	14	$34,572	$40,872
Index and Recording Supervisor	15	$36,387	$43,052
Motor Vehicle Bureau Supervisor	15	$36,387	$43,052
2002
SALARY STANDARD
GENERAL CLERICAL AND OFFICE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
ADMINISTRATION CONT...			
Senior Drafting Technician	17	$40,312	$47,752
Senior Geographic Information Specialist	17	$40,312	$47,752
Computer Systems AnalystZProgrammer	18	$42,551	$50,451
Groundwater Management Planner	18	$42,551	$50,451
Planner I	18	$42,551	$50,451
Planner II	19	$44,923	$53,243
Planner-Office for the Aging	19	$44,923	$53,243
Senior Planner	20	$47,429	$56,299
2002
SALARY STANDARD
GLENDALE HOME	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
* Cleaner (hired after 2/24/94)	1A	$14,467	$17,062
Cleaner	4A	$24,922	$29,277
Maintenance Helper	4A	$24,922	$29,277
Medical Records Clerk	5	$22,802	$26,772
Occupational Therapy Aide	5A	$25,993	$30,533
Gardener	5A	$25,993	$30,533
Maintenance Worker	5A	$25,993	$30,533
Motor Equipment Operator (Light)	6	$23,779	$27,939
Diet Technician	11	$29,892	$35,287
Physical Therapy Assistant (40 Hours)	12	$31,369	$37,039
Assistant Cleaning and Maintenance Supervisor	13	$32,928	$38,833
Micro Computer Network Coordinator	13	$32,928	$38,833
Sr. Micro Computer Network Coordinator LAW	14	$34,572	$40,872
Probation Assistant	7	$24,864	$29,214
Security Officer	9	$27,223	$32,033
Crime Victims Services Assistant	10 .	$28,492	$33,582
Crime Victims Services Coordinator	13	$32,928	$38,833
Investigator	13	$32,928	$38,833
Probation Officer Trainee	13	$32,928	$38,833
Probation Officer	14	$34,572	$40,872
Confidential Investigator	14	$34,572	$40,872
Senior Probation Officer	16	$38,295	$45,365
Alternatives to Incarceration Coordinator	16	$38,295	$45,365
Probation Supervisor	18	$42,551	$50,541
Confidential Target Criminal Investigator LIBRARY	18	$42,551	$50,541
Book Repairer	4	$21,868	$25,618
Library Clerk	4	$21,868	$25,618
Library Typist	4	$21,868	$25,618
Janitor	5	$22,802	$26,772
Custodian	7	$24,864	$29,214
Duplicating Machine Operator	7	$24,864	$29,214
Senior Library Clerk	7	$24,864	$29,214
Senior Library Typist	7	$24,864	$29,214
Principal Library Clerk	10	$28,492	$33,582
Senior Maintenance Worker	12	$31,369	$37,039
Library Assistant	13	$32,928	$38,833
Librarian I	15	$36,387	$43,052
Librarian II	17	$40,312	$47,752
Librarian III	18	$42,551	$50,541
Librarian IV	20	$47,429	$56,299
2002
SALARY STANDARD
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE	GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
Air Traffic Controller Trainee	13	$32,928	$38,833
Air Traffic Controller	14	$34,572	$40,872
Senior Air Traffic Controller	15	$36,387	$43,052
PUBLIC HEALTH			
Public Health Outreach Worker	2	$20,117	$23,547
Certified Home Health Aide	2	$20,117	$23,547
Senior Public Health Outreach Worker	4	$21,868	$25,618
Environmental Health Aide	7	$24,864	$29,214
Public Health Technician	10	$28,492	$33,582
Registered Professional Nurse	14	$34,572	$40,872
Early Intervention Care Coordinator	14	$34,572	$40,872
Community Health Nurse	15	$36,387	$43,052
Public Health Sanitarian	15	$36,387	$43,052
Community Health Social Worker	18	$42,551	$50,451
Supervising Community Health Nurse	18	$42,551	$50,451
Senior Public Health Sanitarian	18	$42,551	$50,451
Early Education Specialist	19	$44,923	$53,243
SCHENECTADY JOB TRAINING AGENCY			
Employment and Training Assistant	7	$24,864	$29,214
Case Management Specialist	10	$28,492	$33,582
Skilled Groundswork Instructor	10	$28,492	$33,582
Skilled Maintenance Instructor	10	$28,492	$33,582
Youth/Adult Program Team Leader	10	$28,492	$33,582
Senior Employment and Training Assistant	11	$29,892	$35,287
Employment and Training Counselor Trainee	13	$32,928	$38,833
Employment and Training Financial Coordinator	13	$32,928	$38,833
Employment and Training Coordinator	13	$32,928	$38,833
Employment and Training Counselor	14	$34,572	$40,872
Recruitment Coordinator	14	$34,572	$40,872
Vocational Specialist	14	$34,572	$40,872
Senior Employment and Training Counselor	15	$36,387	$43,052
Substance Abuse Coordinator	15	$36,387	$43,052
Employee Assistance Program Coordinator	16	$38,295	$45,365
Principal Employment and Training Coordinator	16	$38,295	$45,365
Principal Employment and Training Counselor	16	$38,295	$45,365
Transition to Employment Coordinator	16	$38,295	$45,365
Employment and Training Program Planner	20	$47,429	$56,299
Employment and Training Program Supervisor	20	$47,429	$56,299
2002
SALARY STANDARD
SOCIAL SERVICES
Data Entry Machine Operator
Van Driver
Support Investigator
Senior Data Entry Machine Operator
Social Welfare Examiner
Senior Support Investigator
Senior Social Welfare Examiner
Principal Social Welfare Examiner
Caseworker Trainee
Social Services Investigator
Chief Social Welfare Examiner
Caseworker
Senior Caseworker
Supervising Social Services Investigator
Supervising Support Investigator
Case Supervisor “B”
Family Assessment Specialist
Family Intervention Specialist
Managed Care Coordinator
Training Coordinator “B”
Case Supervisor “A”
Coordinator-Child Support Enforcement Unit
GRADE	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
4	$21,868	$25,618
4	$21,868	$25,618
7	$24,864	$29,214
7	$24,864	$29,214
8	$26,017	$30,587
8	$26,017	$30,587
9	$27,223	$32,033
12	$31,369	$37,039
13	$32,928	$38,833
13	$32,928	$38,833
14	$34,572	$40,872
14	$34,572	$40,872
15	$36,387	$43,052
15	$36,387	$43,052
15	$36,387	$43,052
16	$38,295	$45,365
16	$38,295	$45,365
16	$38,295	$45,365
16	$38,295	$45,365
16	$38,295	$45,365
18	$42,551	$50,451
20	$47,429	$56,299
lg.99.CSEA INCREMENT TABLE
Longevity
2.6%				1999 has 261 working days.					Grade	1989	1984	1979
Grade	Increment	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6			10 Year	15 Year	20 Year
1	$406	$11,600	$12,006	$12,412	$12,818	$13,224	$13,630		1	$406	$812	$1,218
1A	$475	$13,240	$13,715	$14,190	$14,665	$15,140	$15,615		1A	$475	$950	$1,425
2	$628	$18,410	$19,038	$19,666	$20,294	$20,922	$21,550		2	$628	$1,256	$1,884
3	$661	$19,190	$19,851	$20,512	$21,173	$21,834	$22,495		3	$661	$1,322	$1,983
4	$686	$20,013	$20,699	$21,385	$22,071	$22,757	$23,443		4	$686	$1,372	$2,058
4A	$784	$22,871	$23,655	$24,439	$25,223	$26,007	$26,791		4A	$784	$1,568	$2,352
5	$727	$20,867	$21,594	$22,321	$23,048	$23,775	$24,502		5	$727	$1,454	$2,181
5A	$831	$23,787	$24,618	$25,449	$26,280	$27,111	$27,942		5A	$831	$1,662	$2,493
6	$761	$21,761	$22,522	$23,283	$24,044	$24,805	$25,566		6	$761	$1,522	$2,283
7	$796	$22,754	$23,550	$24,346	$25,142	$25,938	$26,734		7	$796	$1,592	$2,388
8	$836	$23,809	$24,645	$25,481	$26,317	$27,153	$27,989		8	$836	$1,672	$2,508
8A	$957	$27,143	$28,100	$29,057	$30,014	$30,971	$31,928		8A	$957	$1,914	$2,871
9	$881	$24,913	$25,794	$26,675	$27,556	$28,437	$29,318		9	$881	$1,762	$2,643
10	$931	$26,074	$27,005	$27,936	$28,867	$29,798	$30,729		10	$931	$1,862	$2,793
11	$987	$27,355	$28,342	$29,329	$30,316	$31,303	$32,290		11	$987	$1,974	$2,961
12	$1,038	$28,707	$29,745	$30,783	$31,821	$32,859	$33,897		12	$1,038	$2,076	$3,114
13	$1,082	$30,134	$31,216	$32,298	$33,380	$34,462	$35,544		13	$1,082	$2,164	$3,246
14	$1,152	$31,638	$32,790	$33,942	$35,094	$36,246	$37,398		14	$1,152	$2,304	$3,456
15	$1,219	$33,299	$34,518	$35,737	$36,956	$38,175	$39,394		15	$1,219	$2,438	$3,657
16	$1,294	$35,046	$36,340	$37,634	$38,928	$40,222	$41,516		16	$1,294	$2,588	$3,882
17	$1,362	$36,891	$38,253	$39,615	$40,977	$42,339	$43,701		17	$1,362	$2,724	$4,086
18	$1,446	$38,941	$40,387	$41,833	$43,279	$44,725	$46,171		18	$1,446	$2,892	$4,338
19	$1,523	$41,112	$42,635	$44,158	$45,681	$47,204	$48,727		19	$1,523	$3,046	$4,569
20	$1,623	$43,405	$45,028	$46,651	$48,274	$49,897	$51,520		20	$1,623	$3,246	$4,869
21	$1,725	$46,053	$47,778	$49,503	$51,228	$52,953	$54,678		21	$1,725	$3,450	$5,175
2000 CSEA INCREMENT TABLE
Longevity
3%					2000 has 260 workinc		days.		Grade	1990	1985	1980
Grade	Increment	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6			10 Year	15 Year	20 Year
1	$418	$11,948	$12,366	$12,784	$13,202	$13,620	$14,038		1	$418	$836	$1,254
1A	$489	$13,637	$14,126	$14,615	$15,104	$15,593	$16,082		1A	$489	$978	$1,467
2	$647	$18,962	$19,609	$20,256	$20,903	$21,550	$22,197		2	$647	$1,294	$1,941
3	$681	$19,766	$20,447	$21,128	$21,809	$22,490	$23,171		3	$681	$1,362	$2,043
4	$707	$20,613	$21,320	$22,027	$22,734	$23,441	$24,148		4	$707	$1,414	$2,121
4A	$808	$23,557	$24,365	$25,173	$25,981	$26,789	$27,597		4A	$808	$1,616	$2,424
5	$749	$21,493	$22,242	$22,991	$23,740	$24,489	$25,238		5	$749	$1,498	$2,247
5A	$856	$24,501	$25,357	$26,213	$27,069	$27,925	$28,781		5A	$856	$1,712	$7,568
6	$784	$22,414	$23,198	$23,982	$24,766	$25,550	$26,334		6	$784	$1,568	$2,352
7	$820	$23,437	$24,257	$25,077	$25,897	$26,717	$27,$7		7	$820	$1,640	$2,460
8	$861	$24,523	$25,384	$26,245	$27,106	$27,967	$28,828		8	$861	$1,722	$2,583
8A	$986	$27,957	$28,943	$29,929	$30,915	$31,901	$32,887		8A	$986	$1,972	$2,958
9	$907	$25,660	$26,567	$27,474	$28,381	$29,288	$30,195		9	$907	$1,814	$2,721
10	$959	$26,856	$27,815	$28,774	$29,733	$30,692	$31,651		10	$959	$1,918	$2,877
11	$1,017	$28,176	$29,193	$30,210	$31,227	$32,244	$33,261		11	$1,017	$2,034	$3,051
12	$1,069	$29,568	$30,637	$31,706	$32,775	$33,844	$34,913		12	$1,069	$2,138	$3,207
13	$1,114	$31,038	$32,152	$33,266	$34,380	$35,494	$36,608		13	$1,114	$2,228	$3,342
14	$1,187	$32,587	$33,774	$34,961	$36,148	$37,335	$38,522		14	$1,187	$2,374	$3,561
15	$1,256	$34,298	$35,554	$36,810	$38,066	$39,322	$40,578		15	$1,256	$2,512	$3,768
16	$1,333	$36,097	$37,430	$38,763	$40,096	$41,429	$42,762		16	$1,333	$2,666	$3,999
17	$1,403	$37,998	$39,401	$40,804	$42,207	$43,610	$45,013		17	$1,403	$2,806	$4,209
18	$1,489	$40,109	$41,598	$43,087	$44,576	$46,065	$47,554		18	$1,489	$2,978	$4,467
19	$1,569	$42,345	$43,914	$45,483	$47,052	$48,621	$50,190		19	$1,569	$3,138	$4,707
20	$1,672	$44,707	$46,379	$48,051	$49,723	$51,395	$53,067		20	$1,672	$3,344	$5,016
21	$1,777	$47,435	$49,212	$50,989	$52,766	$54,543	$56,320		21	$1,777	$3,554	$5,331
2001 CSEA INCREMENT TABLE
Longevity
3%				2001 has 261 working days.					Grade	1991	1986	1981
Grade	Increment	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6			10 Year	15 Year	20 Year
1	$431	$12,306	$12,737	$13,168	$13,599	$14,030	$14,461		1	$431	$862	$1,293
1A	$504	$14,046	$14,550	$15,054	$15,558	$16,062	$16,566		1A	$504	$1,008	$1,512
2	$666	$19,531	$20,197	$20,863	$21,529	$22,195	$22,861		2	$666	$1,332	$1,998
3	$701	$20,359	$21,060	$21,761	$22,462	$23,163	$23,864		3	$701	$1,402	$2,103
4	$728	$21,231	$21,959	$22,687	$23,415	$24,143	$24,871		4	$728	$1,456	$2,184
4A	$832	$24,264	$25,096	$25,928	$26,760	$27,592	$28,424		4A	$832	$1,664	$2,496
5	$771	$22,138	$22,909	$23,680	$24,451	$25,222	$25,993		5	$771	$1,542	$2,313
5A	$882	$25,236	$26,118	$27,000	$27,882	$28,764	$29,646		5A	$882	$1,764	$2,646
6	$808	$23,086	$23,894	$24,702	$25,510	$26,318	$27,126		6	$808	$1,616	$2,424
7	$845	$24,140	$24,985	$25,830	$26,675	$27,520	$28,365		7	$845	$1,690	$2,535
8	$887	$25,259	$26,146	$27,033	$27,920	$28,807	$29,694		8	$887	$1,774	$2,661
8A	$1,016	$28,796	$29,812	$30,828	$31,844	$32,860	$33,876		8A	$1,016	$2,032	$3,048
9	$934	$26,430	$27,364	$28,298	$29,232	$30,166	$31,100		9	$934	$1,868	$2,802
10	$988	$27,662	$28,650	$29,638	$30,626	$31,614	$32,602		10	$988	$1,976	$2,964
11	$1,048	$29,021	$30,069	$31,117	$32,165	$33,213	$34,261		11	$1,048	$2,096	$3,144
12	$1,101	$30,455	$31,556	$32,657	$33,758	$34,859	$35,960		12	$1,101	$2,202	$3,303
13	$1,147	$31,969	$33,116	$34,263	$35,410	$36,557	$37,704		13	$1,147	$2,294	$3,441
14	$1,223	$33,565	$34,788	$36,011	$37,234	$38,457	$39,680		14	$1,223	$2,446	$3,669
15	$1,294	$35,327	$36,621	$37,915	$39,209	$40,503	$41,797		15	$1,294	$2,588	$3,882
16	$1,373	$37,180	$38,553	$39,926	$41,299	$42,672	$44,045		16	$1,373	$2,746	$4,119
17	$1,445	$39,138	$40,583	$42,028	$43,473	$44,918	$46,363		17	$1,445	$2,890	$4,335
18	$1,534	$41,312	$42,846	$44,380	$45,914	$47,448	$48,982		18	$1,534	$3,068	$4,602
19	$1,616	$43,615	$45,231	$46,847	$48,463	$50,079	$51,695		19	$1,616	$3,232	$4,848
20	$1,722	$46,048	$47,770	$49,492	$51,2)4,	$52,936	$54,658		20	$1,722	$3,444	$5,166
21	$1,830	$48,858	$50,688	$52,518	$54,34®	$56,178	$58,008		21	$1,830	$3,660	$5,490
2002 CSEA INCREMENT TABLE
Longevity
3%					2002 has 261 workinc		days.		Grade	1992	1987	1982
Grade	Increment	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6			10 Year	15 Year	20 Year
1	$444	$12,675	$13,119	$13,563	$14,007	$14,451	$14,895		1	$444	$888	$1,332
1A	$519	$14,467	$14,986	$15,505	$16,024	$16,543	$17,062		1A	$519	$1,038	$1,557
2	$686	$20,117	$20,803	$21,489	$22,175	$22,861	$23,547		2	$686	$1,372	$2,058
3	$722	$20,970	$21,692	$22,414	$23,136	$23,858	$24,580		3	$722	$1,444	$2,166
4	$750	$21,868	$22,618	$23,368	$24,118	$24,868	$25,618		4	$750	$1,500	$2,250
4A	$857	$24,992	$25,849	$26,706	$27,563	$28,420	$29,277		4A	$857	$1,714	$2,571
5	$794	$22,802	$23,596	$24,390	$25,184	$25,978	$26,772		5	$794	$1,588	$2,382
5A	$908	$25,993	$26,901	$27,809	$28,717	$29,625	$30,533		5A	$908	$1,816	$2,724
6	$832	$23,779	$24,611	$25,443	$26,275	$27,107	$27,939		6	$832	$1,664	$2,496
7	$870	$24,864	$25,734	$26,604	$27,474	$28,344	$29,214		7	$870	$1,740	$2,610
8	$914	$26,017	$26,931	$27,845	$28,759	$29,673	$30,587		8	$914	$1,828	$2,742
8A	$1,046	$29,660	$30,706	$31,752	$32,798	$33,844	$34,890		8A	$1,046	$2,092	$3,138
9	$962	$27,223	$28,185	$29,147	$30,109	$31,071	$32,033		9	$962	$1,924	$2,886
10	$1,018	$28,492	$29,510	$30,528	$31,546	$32,564	$33,582		10	$1,018	$2,036	$3,054
11	$1,079	$29,892	$30,971	$32,050	$33,129	$34,208	$35,287		11	$1,079	$2,158	$3,237
12	$1,134	$31,369	$32,503	$33,637	$34,771	$35,905	$37,039		12	$1,134	$2,268	$3,402
13	$1,181	$32,928	$34,109	$35,290	$36,471	$37,652	$38,833		13	$1,181	$2,362	$3,543
14	$1,260	$34,572	$35,832	$37,092	$38,352	$39,612	$40,872		14	$1,260	$2,520	$3,780
15	$1,333	$36,387	$37,720	$39,053	$40,386	$41,719	$43,052		15	$1,333	$2,666	$3,999
16	$1,414	$38,295	$39,709	$41,123	$42,537	$43,951	$45,365		16	$1,414	$2,828	$4,242
17	$1,488	$40,312	$41,800	$43,288	$44,776	$46,264	$47,752		17	$1,488	$2,976	$4,464
18	$1,580	$42,551	$44,131	$45,711	$47,291	$48,871	$50,451		18	$1,580	$3,160	$4,740
19	$1,664	$44,923	$46,587	$48,251	$49,915	$51,579	$53,243		19	$1,664	$3,328	$4,992
20	$1,774	$47,429	$49,203	$50,977	$52,751	$54,525	$56,299		20	$1,774	$3,548	$5,322
21	$1,885	$50,324	$52,209	$54,094	$55,979	$57,864	$59,749		21	$1,885	$3,770	$5,655
1999 CSEA HOURLY RATES
35 Hours per Week
261 Working Days per Year / 1827 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$6.35	$6.57	$6.79	$7.02	$7.24	$7.46
1A	———	...	...	...	...	—-
2	$10.08	$10.42	$10.76	$11.11	$11.45	$11.80
3	$10.50	$10.87	$11.23	$11.59	$11.95	$12.31
4	$10.95	$11.33	$11.70	$12.08	$12.46	$12.83
4A	-—	—-	—	...	...	
5	$11.42	$11.82	$12.22	$12.62	$13.01	$13.41
5A	———	—	—-	—-	—	——
6	$11.91	$12.33	$12.74	$13.16	$13.58	$13.99
7	$12.45	$12.89	$13.33	$13.76	$14.20	$14.63
8	$13.03	$13.49	$13.95	$14.40	$14.86	$15.32
8A	—	...	...	...	—-	—
9	$13.64	$14.12	$14.60	$15.08	$15.56	$16.05
10	$14.27	$14.78	$15.29	$15.80	$16.31	$16.82
11	$14.97	$15.51	$16.05	$16.59	$17.13	$17.67
12	$15.71	$16.28	$16.85	$17.42	$17.99	$18.55
13	$16.49	$17.09	$17.68	$18.27	$18.86	$19.45
14	$17.32	$17.95	$18.58	$19.21	$19.84	$20.47
15	$18.23	$18.89	$19.56	$20.23	$20.89	$21.56
16	$19.18	$19.89	$20.60	$21.31	$22.02	$22.72
17	$20.19	$20.94	$21.68	$22.43	$23.17	$23.92
18	$21.31	$22.11	$22.90	$23.69	$24.48	$25.27
19	$22.50	$23.34	$24.17	$25.00	$25.84	$26.67
20	$23.76	$24.65	$25.53	$26.42	$27.31	$28.20
21	$25.21	$26.15	$27.10	$28.04	$28.98	$29.93
"A" grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
2000 CSEA HOURLY RATES
35 Hours per Week
260 Working Days per Year / 1820 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$6.56	$6.79	$7.02	$7.25 .	$7.48	$7.71
1A	—	———	—	—	———	—-
2	$10.42	$10.77	$11.13	$11.49	$11.84	$12.20
3	$10.86	$11.23	$11.61	$11.98	$12.36	$12.73
4	$11.33	$11.71	$12.10	$12.49	$12.88	$13.27
4A	—	—	—	—	—	—
5	$11.81	$12.22	$12.63	$13.04	$13.46	$13.87
5A	—	—	—	---	...	
6	$12.32	$12.75	$13.18	$13.61	$14.04	$14.47
7	$12.88	$13.33	$13.78	$14.23	$14.68	$15.13
8	$13.47	$13.95	$14.42	$14.89	$15.37	$15.84
8A	—	—	—	...	—-	—
9	$14.10	$14.60	$15.10	$15.59	$16.09	$16.59
10	$14.76	$15.28	$15.81	$16.34	$16.86	$17.39
11	$15.48	$16.04	$16.60	$17.16	$17.72	$18.28
12	$16.25	$16.83	$17.42	$18.01	$18.60	$19.18
13	$17.05	$17.67	$18.28	$18.89	$19.50	$20.11
14	$17.90	$18.56	$19.21	$19.86	$20.51	$21.17
15	$18.85	$19.54	$20.23	$20.92	$21.61	$22.30
16	$19.83	$20.57	$21.30	$22.03	$22.76	$23.50
17	$20.88	$21.65	$22.42	$23.19	$23.96	$24.73
18	$22.04	$22.86	$23.67	$24.49	$25.31	$26.13
19	$23.27	$24.13	$24.99	$25.85	$26.71	$27.58
20	$24.56	$25.48	$26.40	$27.32	$28.24	$29.16
21	$26.06	$27.04	$28.02	$28.99	$29.97	$30.95
"A" grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
2Q01 CSEA HOURLY RATES
35 Hours per Week
261 Working Days per Year / 1827 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$6.74	$6.97	$7.21	$7.44 .	$7.68	$7.92
1A	...	—-	...	...	—	...
2	$10.69	$11.05	$11.42	$11.78	$12.15	$12.51
3	$11.14	$11.53	$11.91	$12.29	$12.68	$13.06
4	$11.62	$12.02	$12.42	$12.82	$13.21	$13.61
4A	-—	—	...	...	...	...
5	$12.12	$12.54	$12.96	$13.38	$13.81	$14.23
5A	—-	—	...	...	...	
6	$12.64	$13.08	$13.52	$13.96	$14.41	$14.85
7	$13.21	$13.68	$14.14	$14.60	$15.06	$15.53
8	$13.83	$14.31	$14.80	$15.28	$15.77	$16.25
8A	———	—	...	...	...	...
9	$14.47	$14.98	$15.49	$16.00	$16.51	$17.02
10	$15.14	$15.68	$16.22	$16.76	$17.30	$17.84
11	$15.88	$16.46	$17.03	$17.61	$18.18	$18.75
12	$16.67	$17.27	$17.87	$18.48	$19.08	$19.68
13	$17.50	$18.13	$18.75	$19.38	$20.01	$20.64
14	$18.37	$19.04	$19.71	$20.38	$21.05	$21.72
15	$19.34	$20.04	$20.75	$21.46	$22.17	$22.88
16	$20.35	$21.10	$21.85	$22.60	$23.36	$24.11
17	$21.42	$22.21	$23.00	$23.79	$24.59	$25.38
18	$22.61	$23.45	$24.29	$25.13	$25.97	$26.81
19	$23.87	$24.76	$25.64	$26.53	$27.41	$28.30
20	$25.20	$26.15	$27.09	$28.03	$28.97	$29.92
21	$26.74	$27.74	$28.75	$29.75	$30.75	$31.75
"A" grades are cnly applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
2002 CSEA HOURLY RATES
35 Hours per Week
261 Working Days per Year / 1827 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$6.94	$7.18	$7.42	$7.67	$7.91	$8.15
1A	—-	—		—	———	—
2	$11.01	$11.39	$11.76	$12.14	$12.51	$12.89
3	$11.48	$11.87	$12.27	$12.66	$13.06	$13.45
4	$11.97	$12.38	$12.79	$13.20	$13.61	$14.02
4A	—	—	—	—	—	—
5	$12.48	$12.92	$13.35	$13.78	$14.22	$14.65
5A	—	—-	—	—	...	...
6	$13.02	$13.47	$13.93	$14.38	$14.84	$15.29
7	$13.61	$14.09	$14.56	$15.04	$15.51	$15.99
8	$14.24	$14.74	$15.24	$15.74	$16.24	$16.74
8A	—	—-	—	—	...	...
9	$14.90	$15.43	$15.95	$16.48	$17.01	$17.53
10	$15.59	$16.15	$16.71	$17.27	$17.82	$18.38
11	$16.36	$16.95	$17.54	$18.13	$18.72	$19.31
12	$17.17	$17.79	$18.41	$19.03	$19.65	$20.27
13	$18.02	$18.67	$19.32	$19.96	$20.61	$21.26
14	$18.92	$19.61	$20.30	$20.99	$21.68	$22.37
15	$19.92	$20.65	$21.38	$22.11	$22.83	$23.56
16	$20.96	$21.73	$22.51	$23.28	$24.06	$24.83
17	$22.06	$22.88	$23.69	$24.51	$25.32	$26.14
18	$23.29	$24.15	$25.02	$25.88	$26.75	$27.61
19	$24.59	$25.50	$26.41	$27.32	$28.23	$29.14
20	$25.96	$26.93	$27.90	$28.87	$29.84	$30.81
21	$27.54	$28.58	$29.61	$30.64	$31.67	$32.70
"A" grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
1999 CSEA HOURLY RATES
37.5 Hours per Week
261 Working Days per Year / 1957.5 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$5.93	$6.13	$6.34	$6.55 .	$6.76	$6.96
1A	—	—	—	—		—
2	$9.40	$9.73	$10.05	$10.37	$10.69	$11.01
3	$9.80	$10.14	$10.48	$10.82	$11.15	$11.49
4	$10.22	$10.57	$10.92	$11.28	$11.63	$11.98
4A	—	—	—	———	—	———
5	$10.66	$11.03	$11.40	$11.77	$12.15	$12.52
5A	—	———	—	...		—
6	$11.12	$11.51	$11.89	$12.28	$12.67	$13.06
7	$11.62	$12.03	$12.44	$12.84	$13.25	$13.66
8	$12.16	$12.59	$13.02	$13.44	$13.87	$14.30
8A	—		...	...	—	—
9	$12.73	$13.18	$13.63	$14.08	$14.53	$14.98
10	$13.32	$13.80	$14.27	$14.75	$15.22	$15.70
11	$13.97	$14.48	$14.98	$15.49	$15.99	$16.50
12	$14.67	$15.20	$15.73	$16.26	$16.79	$17.32
13	$15.39	$15.95	$16.50	$17.05	$17.61	$18.16
14	$16.16	$16.75	$17.34	$17.93	$18.52	$19.10
15	$17.01	$17.63	$18.26	$18.88	$19.50	$20.12
16	$17.90	$18.56	$19.23	$19.89	$20.55	$21.21
17	$18.85	$19.54	$20.24	$20.93	$21.63	$22.32
18	$19.89	$20.63	$21.37	$22.11	$22.85	$23.59
19	$21.00	$21.78	$22.56	623.34	$24.11	$24.89
20	$22.17	$23.00	$23.83	$24.66	$25.49	$26.32
21	$23.53	$24.41	$25.29	$26.17	$27.05	$27.93
"A" grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
2000 CSEA HOURLY RATES
37.5 Hours per Week
260 Working Days per Year / 1950 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$6,13	$6.34	$6.56	$6.77 .	$6.98	$7.20
1A	—	—	———	———	———	—-
2	$9.72	$10.06	$10.39	$10.72	$11.05	$11.38
3	$10.14	$10.49	$10.83	$11.18	$11.53	$11.88
4	$10.57	$10.93	$11.30	$11.66	$12.02	$12.38
4A	—	—	—	—	—	—
5	$11.02	$11.41	$11.79	$12.17	$12.56	$12.94
5A	—		...	——	—	—
6	$11.49	$11.90	$12.30	$12.70	$13.10	$13.50
7	$12.02	$12.44	$12.86	$13.28	$13.70	$14.12
8	$12.58	$13.02	$13.46	$13.90	$14.34	$14.78
8A	—	—		—		—
9	$13.16	$13.62	$14.09	$14.55	$15.02	$15.48
10	$13.77	$14.26	$14.76	$15.25	$15.74	$16.23
11	$14.45	$14.97	$15.49	$16.01	$16.54	$17.06
12	$15.16	$15.71	$16.26	$16.81	$17.36	$17.90
13	$15.92	$16.49	$17.06	$17.63	$18.20	$18.77
14	$16.71	$17.32	$17.93	$18.54	$19.15	$19.75
15	$17.59	$18.23	$18.88	$19.52	$20.17	$20.81
16	$18.51	$19.19	$19.88	$20.56	$21.25	$21.93
17	$19.49	$20.21	$20.93	$21.64	$22.36	$23.08
18	$20.57	$21.33	$22.10	$22.86	$23.62	$24.39
19	$21.72	$22.52	$23.32	$24.13	$24.93	$25.74
20	$22.93	$23.78	$24.64	$25.50	$26.36	$27.21
21	$24.33	$25.24	$26.15	$27.06	$27.97	$28.88
"A" grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
2001 CSEA HOURLY RATES
37.5 Hours per Week
261 Working Days per Year / 1957.5 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$6.29	$6.51	$6.73	$6.95 .	$7.17	$7.39
1A		—	—-	—	—-	—
2	$9.98	$10.32	$10.66	$11.00	$11.34	$11.68
3	$10.40	$10.76	$11.12	$11.47	$11.83	$12.19
4	$10.85	$11.22	$11.59	$11.96	$12.33	$12.71
4A	—	—		—	—	—-
5	$11.31	$11.70	$12.10	$12.49	$12.88	$13.28
5A	———	—	...	...	...	—-
6	$11.79	$12.21	$12.62	$13.03	$13.44	$13.86
7	$12.33	$12.76	$13.20	$13.63	$14.06	$14.49
8	$12.90	$13.36	$13.81	$14.26	$14.72	$15.17
8A	—	—-	...	...	—	——
9	$13.50	$13.98	$14.46	$14.93	$15.41	$15.89
10	$14.13	$14.64	$15.14	$15.65	$16.15	$16.65
11	$14.83	$15.36	$15.90	$16.43	$16.97	$17.50
12	$15.56	$16.12	$16.68	$17.25	$17.81	$18.37
13	$16.33	$16.92	$17.50	$18.09	$18.68	$19.26
14	$17.15	$17.77	$18.40	$19.02	$19.65	$20.27
15	$18.05	$18.71	$19.37	$20.03	$20.69	$21.35
16	$18.99	$19.70	$20.40	$21.10	$21.80	$22.50
17	$19.99	$20.73	$21.47	$22.21	$22.95	$23.68
18	$21.10	$21.89	$22.67	$23.46	$24.24	$25.02
19	$22.28	$23.11	$23.93	$24.76	$25.58	$26.41
20	$23.52	$24.40	$25.28	$26.16	$27.04	$27.92
21	$24.96	$25.89	$26.83	$27.76	$28.70	$29.63
"A" grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
2002 CSEA HOURLY RATES
37.5 Hours per Week
261 Working Days per Year / 1957.5 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$6.48	$6.70	$6.93	$7.16	$7.38	$7.61
1A	———	—	...	———	—	
2	$10.28	$10.63	$10.98	$11.33	$11.68	$12.03
3	$10.71	$11.08	$11.45	$11.82	$12.19	$12.56
4	$11.17	$11.55	$11.94	$12.32	$12.70	$13.09
4A	———		...	—-	———	-—
5	$11.65	$12.05	$12.46	$12.87	$13.27	$13.68
5A		...	—-	—	—	—
6	$12.15	$12.57	$13.00	$13.42	$13.85	$14.27
7	$12.70	$13.15	$13.59	$14.04	$14.48	$14.92
8	$13.29	$13.76	$14.22	$14.69	$15.16	$15.63
8A	—	...	—		—-	
9	$13.91	$14.40	$14.89	$15.38	$15.87	$16.36
10	$14.56	$15.08	$15.60	$16.12	$16.64	$17.16
11	$15.27	$15.82	$16.37	$16.92	$17.48	$18.03
12	$16.03	$16.60	$17.18	$17.76	$18.34	$18.92
13	$16.82	$17.42	$18.03	$18.63	$19.23	$19.84
14	$17.66	$18.30	$18.95	$19.59	$20.24	$20.88
15	$18.59	$19.27	$19.95	$20.63	$21.31	$21.99
16	$19.56	$20.29	$21.01	$21.73	$22.45	$23.17
17	$20.59	$21.35	$22.11	$22.87	$23.63	$24.39
18	$21.74	$22.54	$23.35	$24.16	$24.97	$25.77
19	$22.95	$23.80	$24.65	$25.50	$26.35	$27.20
20	$24.23	$25.14	$26.04	$26.95	$27.85	$28.76
21	$25.71	$26.67	$27.63	$28.60	$29.56	$30.52
"A" grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
1999 CSEA HOURLY RATES
40 Hours per Week
261 Working Days per Year / 2088 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$5.56	$5.75	$5.94	$6.14 .	$6.33	$6.53
1A	$6.34	$6.57	$6.80	$7.02	$7.25	$7.48
2	$8.82	$9.12	$9.42	$9.72	$10.02	$10.32
3	$9.19	$9.51	$9.82	$10.14	$10.46	$10.77
4	$9.58	$9.91	$10.24	$10.57	$10.90	$11.23
4A	$10.95	$11.33	$11.70	$12.08	$12.46	$12.83
5	$9.99	$10.34	$10.69	$11.04	$11.39	$11.73
5A	$11.39	$11.79	$12.19	$12.59	$12.98	$13.38
6	$10.42	$10.79	$11.15	$11.52	$11.88	$12.24
7	$10.90	$11.28	$11.66	$12.04	$12.42	$12.80
8	$11.40	$11.80	$12.20	$12.60	$13.00	$13.40
8A	$13.00	$13.46	$13.92	$14.37	$14.83	$15.29
9	$11.93	$12.35	$12.78	$13.20	$13.62	$14.04
10	$12.49	$12.93	$13.38	$13.83	$14.27	$14.72
11	$13.10	$13.57	$14.05	$14.52	$14.99	$15.46
12	$13.75	$14.25	$14.74	$15.24	$15.74	$16.23
13	$14.43	$14.95	$15.47 •	$15.99	$16.50	$17.02
14	$15.15	$15.70	$16.26	$16.81	$17.36	$17.91
15	$15.95	$16.53	$17.12	$17.70	$18.28	$18.87
16	$16.78	$17.40	$18.02	$18.64	$19.26	$19.88
17	$17.67	$18.32	$18.97	$19.63	$20.28	$20.93
18	$18.65	$19.34	$20.03	$20.73	$21.42	$22.11
19	$19.69	$20.42	$21.15	$21.88	$22.61	$23.34
20	$20.79	$21.57	$22.34	$23.12	$23.90	$24.67
21	$22.06	$22.88	$23.71	$24.53	$25.36	$26.19
"A” grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
2000 CSEA HOURLY RATES
40 Hours per Week
260 Working Days per Year / 2080 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$5.74	$5.95	$6.15	$6.35 .	$6.55	$6.75
1A	$6.56	$6.79	$7.03	$7.26	$7.50	$7.73
2	$9.12	$9.43	$9.74	$10.05	$10.36	$10.67
3	$9.50	$9.83	$10.16	$10.49	$10.81	$11.14
4 .	$9.91	$10.25	$10.59	$10.93	$11.27	$11.61
4A	$11.33	$11.71	$12.10	$12.49	$12.88	$13.27
5	$10.33	$10.69	$11.05	$11.41	$11.77	$12.13
5A	$11.78	$12.19	$12.60	$13.01	$13.43	$13.84
6	$10.78	$11.15	$11.53	$11.91	$12.28	$12.66
7	$11.27	$11.66	$12.06	$12.45	$12.84	$13.24
8	$11.79	$12.20	$12.62	$13.03	$13.45	$13.86
8A	$13.44	$13.91	$14.39	$14.86	$15.34	$15.81
9	$12.34	$12.77	$13.21	$13.64	$14.08	$14.52
10	$12.91	$13.37	$13.83	$14.29	$14.76	$15.22
11	$13.55	$14.04	$14.52	$15.01	$15.50	$15.99
12	$14.22	$14.73	$15.24	$15.76	$16.27	$16.79
13	$14.92	$15.46	$15.99	$16.53	$17.06	$17.60
14	$15.67	$16.24	$16.81	$17.38	$17.95	$18.52
15	$16.49	$17.09	$17.70	$18.30	$18.90	$19.51
16	$17.35	$18.00	$18.64	$19.28	$19.92	$20.56
17	$18.27	$18.94	$19.62	$20.29	$20.97	$21.64
18	$19.28	$20.00	$20.71	$21.43	$22.15	$22.86
19	$20.36	$21.11	$21.87	$22.62	$23.38	$24.13
20	$21.49	$22.30	$23.10	$23.91	$24.71	$25.51
21	$22.81	$23.66	$24.51	$25.37	$26.22	$27.08
"A" grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
2001 CSEA HOURLY RATES
40 Hours per Week
261 Working Days per Year / 2088 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$5.89	$6.10	$6.31	$6.51 .	$6.72	$6.93
1A	$6.73	$6.97	$7.21	$7.45	$7.69	$7.93
2	$9.35	$9.67	$9.99	$10.31	$10.63	$10.95
3	$9.75	$10.09	$10.42	$10.76	$11.09	$11.43
4	$10.17	$10.52	$10.87	$11.21	$11.56	$11.91
4A	$11.62	$12.02	$12.42	$12.82	$13.21	$13.61
5	$10.60	$10.97	$11.34	$11.71	$12.08	$12.45
5A	$12.09	$12.51	$12.93	$13.35	$13.78	$14.20
6	$11.06	$11.44	$11.83	$12.22	$12.60	$12.99
7	$11.56	$11.97	$12.37	$12.78	$13.18	$13.58
8	$12.10	$12.52	$12.95	$13.37	$13.80	$14.22
8A	$13.79	$14.28	$14.76	$15.25	$15.74	$16.22
9	$12.66	$13.11	$13.55	$14.00	$14.45	$14.89
10	$13.25	$13.72	$14.19	$14.67	$15.14	$15.61
11	$13.90	$14.40	$14.90	$15.40	$15.91	$16.41
12	$14.59	$15.11	$15.64	$16.17	$16.69	$17.22
13	$15.31	$15.86	$16.41	$16.96	$17.51	$18.06
14	$16.08	$16.66	$17.25	$17.83	$18.42	$19.00
15	$16.92	$17.54	$18.16	$18.78	$19.40	$20.02
16	$17.81	$18.46	$19.12	$19.78	$20.44	$21.09
17	$18.74	$19.44	$20.13	$20.82	$21.51	$22.20
18	$19.79	$20.52	$21.25	$21.99	$22.72	$23.46
19	$20.89	$21.66	$22.44	$23.21	$23.98	$24.76
20	$22.05	$22.88	$23.70	$24.53	$25.35	$26.18
21	$23.40	$24.28	$25.15	$26.03	$26.91	$27.78
"A" grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
2002 CSEA HOURLY RATES
40 Hours per Week
261 Working Days per Year / 2088 Hours per Year
Grade	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6
1	$6.07	$6.28	$6.50	$6.71 .	$6.92	$7.13
1A	$6.93	$7.18	$7.43	$7.67	$7.92	$8.17
2	$9.63	$9.96	$10.29	$10.62	$10.95	$11.28
3	$10.04	$10.39	$10.73	$11.08	$11.43	$11.77
4	$10.47	$10.83	$11.19	$11.55	$11.91	$12.27
4A	$11.97	$12.38	$12.79	$13.20	$13.61	$14.02
5	$10.92	$11.30	$11.68	$12.06	$12.44	$12.82
5A	$12.45	$12.88	$13.32	$13.75	$14.19	$14.62
6	$11.39	$11.79	$12.19	$12.58	$12.98	$13.38
7	$11.91	$12.32	$12.74	$13.16	$13.57	$13.99
8	$12.46	$12.90	$13.34	$13.77	$14.21	$14.65
8A	$14.20	$14.71	$15.21	$15.71	$16.21	$16.71
9	$13.04	$13.50	$13.96	$14.42	$14.88	$15.34
10	$13.65	$14.13	$14.62	$15.11	$15.60	$16.08
11	$14.32	$14.83	$15.35	$15.87	$16.38	$16.90
12	$15.02	$15.57	$16.11	$16.65	$17.20	$17.74
13	$15.77	$16.34	$16.90	$17.47	$18.03	$18.60
14	$16.56	$17.16	$17.76	$18.37	$18.97	$19.57
15	$17.43	$18.07	$18.70	$19.34	$19.98	$20.62
16	$18.34	$19.02	$19.69	$20.37	$21.05	$21.73
17	$19.31	$20.02	$20.73	$21.44	$22.16	$22.87
18	$20.38	$21.14	$21.89	$22.65	$23.41	$24.16
19	$21.51	$22.31	$23.11	$23.91	$24.70	$25.50
20	$22.72	$23.56	$24.41	$25.26	$26.11	$26.96
21	$24.10	$25.00	$25.91	$26.81	$27.71	$28.62
"A" grades are only applicable to 40 hour per week employees.
1929 CSEA NURSING_STAFF
SUPERVISING NURSE:
HEAD NURSE:
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total	Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total
1	$43,393	$4,339	$47,732	1	$40,179	$4,018	$44,197
2	$44,998	$4,500	$49,498	2	$41,784	$4,178	$45,962
3	$46,606	$4,661	$51,267	3	$43,391	$4,339	$47,730
4	$48,211	$4,821	$53,032	4	$44,996	$4,500	$49,496
5	$49,815	$4,982	$54,797	5	$46,604	$4,660	$51,264
6	$51,424	. $5,142	$56,566	6	$48,209	$4,821	$53,030
INFECTION CONTROL NURSE: IN-SERVICE TRAINING COORDINATOR: JAIL HEALTH SERVICE PROVIDER: QUALITY ASSURANCE NURSE: UTILIZATION REVIEW SCREENER:
LONGEVITY:		
1989 10 Year	1984 15 Year	1979 20 Year
$1,606	$3,212	$4,818
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total
1	$38,570	$3,857	$42,427
2	$40,177	$4,018	$44,195
3	$41,781	$4,178	$45,959
4	$43,389	$4,339	$47,728
5	$44,994	$4,499	$49,493
6	$46,600	$4,660	$51,260
261 Working Days
2088 Hours (8 hours shifts)
$2. Option in Lieu of Benefits.
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL NURSE:
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total	Per Diem	10% Shift	Total	1989 10 Yr Lo	1984 15 Yr Lo	1979 20 Yr Lo	Hourly Rate
1	$35,358	$3,536	$38,894	$135.47	$13.55	$149.02	—	—	—	$16.93
2	$36,963	$3,696	$40,659	$141.62	$14.16	$155.78	—	—	—	$17.70
3	$38,570	$3,857	$42,427	$147.78	$14.78	$162.56	——	—	—	$18.47
4	$40,177	$4,018	$44,195	$153.93	$15.39	$169.32	—	—	—	$19.24
5	$41,781	$4,178	$45,959	$160.08	$16.01	$176.09	—	—	—	$20.01
6	$43,389	$4,339	$47,728	$166.24	$16.62	$182.86	$6.15	$12.30	$18.45	$20.78
2000 CSEA NURSING STAFF
SUPERVISING NURSE:
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total
1	$44,695	$4,470	$49,165
2	$46,348	$4,635	$50,983
3	$48,004	$4,800	$52,804
4	$49,657	$4,966	$54,623
5	$51,309	$5,131	$56,440
6	$52,967	$5,297	$58,264
HEAD NURSE:
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total
1	$41,384	$4,138	$45,522
2	$43,038	$4,304	$47,342
3	$44,693	$4,469	$49,162
4	$46,346	$4,635	$50,981
5	$48,002	$4,800	$52,802
6	$49,655	$4,966	$54,621
INFECTION CONTROL NURSE: IN-SERVICE TRAINING COORDINATOR: JAIL HEALTH SERVICE PROVIDER: QUALITY ASSURANCE NURSE: UTILIZATION REVIEW SCREEN ER:
LONGEVITY:		
1990 10 Year	1985 15 Year	1980 20 Year
$1,654	$3,308	$4,962
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total
1	$39,727	$3,973	$43,700
2	$41,382	$4,138	$45,520
3	$43,034	$4,303	$47,337
4	$44,691	$4,469	$49,160
5	$46,344	$4,634	$50,978
6	$47,998	$4,800	$52,798
260 Working Days
2080 Hours (8 hours shifts)
$2. Option in Lieu of Benefits.
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL NURSE:
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total	Per Diem	10% Shift	Total	1990 10 Yr Lo	1985 15 Yr Lo	1980 20 Yr Lo	Hourly Rate
1	$36,419	$3,642	$40,061	$140.07	$14.01	$154.08	—	—	—	$17.51
2	$38,072	$3,807	$41,879	$146.43	$14.64	$161.07	---	—	---	$18.30
3	$39,727	$3,973	$43,700	$152.80	$15.28	$168.08	—	---	—	$19.10
4	$41,382	$4,138	$45,520	$159.16	$15.92	$175.08	—	—	—	$19.90
5	$43,034	$4,303	$47,337	$165.52	$16.55	$182.07	—		---	$20.69
6	$44,691	$4,469	$49,160	$171.89	$17.19	$189.08	$6.36	$12.72	$19.08	$21.49
2001 CSEA NURSING STAFF
SUPERVISING NURSE:
HEAD NURSE:
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift		Total	Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total
1	$46,036	<	>4,604	$50,640	1	$42,626	$4,263	$46,889
2	$47,738	<	H,774	$52,512	2	$44,329	$4,433	$48,762
3	$49,444	(	^4,944	$54,388	3	$46,034	$4,603	$50,637
4	$51,147	c	^5,115	$56,262	4	$47,736	$4,774	$52,510
5	$52,848	<	f5,285	$58,133	5	$49,442	$4,944	$54,386
6	$54,556	(	^5,456	$60,012	6	$51,145	$5,115	$56,260
INFECTION CONTROL NURSE: IN-SERVICE TRAINING COORDINATOR: JAIL HEALTH SERVICE PROVIDER: QUALITY ASSURANCE NURSE: UTILIZATION REVIEW SCREENER:
LONGEVITY:		
1991 10 Year	1986 15 Year	1981 20 Ye?r
#1,704	*$3,408	$5,112
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total
1	$40,919	$4,092	$45,011
2	$42,623	$4,262	$46,885
3	$44,325	$4,433	$48,758
4	$46,032	$4,603	$50,635
5	$47,734	$4,773	$52,507
6	$49,438	$4,944	$54,382
261 Working Days
2088 Hours (8 hours shifts)
$2. Option in Lieu of Benefits.
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL NURSE:
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total	Pgr Diem	10% Shift	Total	1991 10 Yr Lo	1986 15 Yr Lo	1981 20 Yr Lo	Hourly Rate
1	$37,512	$3,751	$41,263	$143.72	$14.37	$158.09	—	—	—	$17.97
2	$39,214	$3,921	$43,135	$150.25	$15.03	$165.28	—	—	—	$18.78
3	$40,919	$4,092	$45,011	$156.78	$15.68	$172.46	—	—	—	$19.60
4	$42,623	$4,262	$46,885	$163.31	$16.33	$179.64	—	—	—	$20.41
5	$44,325	$4,433	$48,758	$169.83	$16.98	$186.81	—	—	—	$21.23
6	$46,032	$4,603	$50,635	$176.37	$17.64	$194.01	$6.53	$13.06	$19.59	$22.05
2002 CSEA NURSING STAFF
SUPERVISING NURSE:
HEAD NURSE:
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total	Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total
1	$47,417	$4,742	$52,159	1	$43,905	$4,391 5	^48,296
2	$49,170	$4,917	$54,087	2	$45,659	$4,566 J	f50,225
3	$50,927	$5,093	$56,020	3	$47,415	$4,742 !|	^52,157
4	$52,681	$5,268	$57,949	4	$49,168	$4,917	^54,085
5	$54,433	$5,443	$59,876	5	$50,925	$5,093 f|	^56,018
6	$56,193	$5,619	$61,812	6	$52,679	$5,268 <j	(=57,947
INFECTION CONTROL NURSE: IN-SERVICE TRAINING COORDINATOR: JAIL HEALTH SERVICE PROVIDER: QUALITY ASSURANCE NURSE: UTILIZATION REVIEW SCREENER:
L 1992 10 Year	ONGEVITY: 1987 15 Year	1982 20 Year
$1,755	$3,510	$5,265
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total
1	$42,147	$4,215	$46,362
2	$43,902	$4,390	$48,292
3	$45,655	$4,566	$50,221
4	$47,413	$4,741	$52,154
5	$49,166	$4,917	$54,083
6	$50,921	$5,092	$56,013
261 Working Days
2088 Hours (8 hours shifts)
$2. Option in Lieu of Benefits.
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL NURSE:
Step	Base Salary	10% Shift	Total	Per Diem	10% Shift	Total	1992 10 Yr Lo	1987 15 Yr Lo	1982 20 Yr Lo	Hourly Rate
1	$38,637	$3,864	$42,501	$148.03	$14.80	$162.83	—	—	—	$18.50
2	$40,390	$4,039	$44,429	$154.75	$15.48	$170.23	—	—	—	$19.34
3	$42,147	$4,215	$46,362	$161.48	$16.15	$177.63	—-	—	—	$20.19
4	$43,902	$4,390	$48,292	$168.21	$16.82	$185.03	—■	—	—	$21.Q3
5	$45,655	$4,566	$50,221	$174.92	$17.49	$192.41		—	—	$21.87
6	$47,413	$4,741	$52,154	$181.66	$18.17	$199.83	$6.72	$13.44	$20.16	$22.71
2.6%
1999 CSEA HIGHWAY
(Base 4 Longevity) x 10% Shift
Highway Titles	Hourly Base Rate		5 Yr Lo 1994 2%	5 Year Anniv Rate	10 Yr Lo 1989 3.5%	10 Year Anniv Rate	15 Yr Lo 1984 7%	15 Year Anniv Rate	20 Yr Lo 1979 10%	20 Year Anniv Rate	25 Yr Lo 1974 12%	25 Year Anniv Rate
Laborer - Seasonal	$11.51			—	—	—	—	wwaa	— —			
Engineering Aide - Seasonal	$12.70		—	—	—	—	—-	—	—	—	—	—-
Maintenance Helper	$9.63		$0.19	$9.82	$0.34	$9.97	$0.67	$10.30	$0.96	$10.59	$1.16	$10.79
Laborer	$13.62		$0.27	$13.89	$0.48	$14.10	$0.95	$14.57	$1.36	$14.98	$1.63	$15.25
Automotive Stockroom Attendant	$14.11		$0.28	$14.39	$0.49	$14.60	$0.99	$15.10	$1.41	$15.52	$1.69	$15.80
Garage Attendant	$14.11		$0.28	$14.39	$0.49	$14.60	$0.99	$15.10	$1.41	$15.52	$1.69	$15.80
Motor Equipment Operator - Light	$14.11		$0.28	$14.39	$0.49	$14.60	$0.99	$15.10	$1.41	$15.52	$1.69	$15.80
Sign Painter	$14.98		$0.30	$15.28	$0.52	$15.50	$1.05	$16.03	$1.50	$16.48	$1.80	$16.78
Automotive Mechanic Helper	$14.98		$0.30	$15.28	$0.52	$15.50	$1.05	$16.03	$1.50	$16.48	$1.80	$16.78
Motor Equipment Operator	$14.98		$0.30	$15.28	$0.52	$15.50	$1.05	$16.03	$1.50	$16.48	$1.80	$16.78
Automotive Mechanic	$16.22		$0.32	$16.54	$0.57	$16.79	$1.14	$17.36	$1.62	$17.84	$1.95	$18.17
Automotive Stock Clerk	$16.22		$0.32	$16.54	$0.57	$16.79	$1.14	$17.36	$1.62	$17.84	$1.95	$18.17
Heavy Equipment Operator	$16.22		$0.32	$16.54	$0.57	$16.79	$1.14	$17.36	$1.62	$17.84	$1.95	$18.17
Working Team Leader - Maintenance	$16.48		$0.33	$16.81	$0.58	$17.06	$1.15	$17.63	$1.65	$18.13	$1.98	$18.46
Senior Auto Stock Clerk	$16.78		$0.34	$17.12	$0.59	$17.37	$1.17	$17.95	$1.68	$18.46	$2.01	$18.79
Working Crew Leader	$17.50		$0.35	$17.85	$0.61	$18.11	$1.23	$18.73	$1.75	$19.25	$2.10	$19.60
Senior Automotive Mechanic	$17.50		$0.35	$17.85	$0.61	$18.11	$1.23	$18.73	$1.75	$19.25	$2.10	$19.60
Working Team Leader - Construction	$17.84		$0.36	$18.20	$0.62	$18.46	$1.25	$19.09	$1.78	$19.62	$2.14	$19.98
Sr. Wrking Team Ldr - Construction	$19.30		$0.39	$19.69	$0.68	$19.98	$1.35	$20.65	$1.93	$21.23	$2.32	$21.62
Head Maintenance Worker	$20.39		$0.41	$20.80	$0.71	$21.10	$1.43	$21.82	$2.04	$22.43	$2.45.	$22.84
3%
2000 CSEA HIGHWAY
(Base + Longevity) x 10% Shift
Highway Titles	Hourly Base Rate		5 Yr Lo 1995 2%	5 Year Anniv Rate	10 Yr Lo 1990 3.5%	10 Year Anniv Rate	15 Yr Lo 1985 7%	15 Year Anniv Rate	20 Yr Lo 1980 10%	20 Year Anniv Rate	25 Yr Lo 1975 12%	25 Year Anniv Rate
Laborer - Seasonal	$11.86		—	—	—	—	—	—	—	—	—	...
Engineering Aide - Seasonal	$13.08		—	—	—	—	—	—	—	—	—	—
Maintenance Helper	$9.92		$0.20	$10.12	$0.35	$10.27	$0.69	$10.61	$0.99	$10.91	$1.19	$11.11
Laborer	$14.03		$0.28	$14.31	$0.49	$14.52	$0.98	$15.01	$1.40	$15.43	$1.68	$15.71
Automotive Stockroom Attendant	$14.53		$0.29	$14.82	$0.51	$15.04	$1.02	$15.55	$1.45	$15.98	$1.74	$16.27
Garage Attendant	$14.53		$0.29	$14.82	$0.51	$15.04	$1.02	$15.55	$1.45	$15.98	$1.74	$16.27
Motor Equipment Operator - Light	$14.53		$0.29	$14.82	$0.51	$15.04	$1.02	$15.55	$1.45	$15.98	$1.74	$16.27
Sign Painter	$15.43		$0.31	$15.74	$0.54	$15.97	$1.08	$16.51	$1.54	$16.97	$1.85	$17.28
Automotive Mechanic Helper	$15.43		$0.31	$15.74	$0.54	$15.97	$1.08	$16.51	$1.54	$16.97	$1.85	$17.28
Motor Equipment Operator	$15.43		$0.31	$15.74	$0.54	$15.97	$1.08	$16.51	$1.54	$16.97	$1.85	$17.28
Automotive Mechanic	$16.71		$0.33	$17.04	$0.58	$17.29	$1.17	$17.88	$1.67	$18.38	$2.01	$18.72
Automotive Stock Clerk	$16.71		$0.33	$17.04	$0.58	$17.29	$1.17	$17.88	$1.67	$18.38	$2.01	$18.72
Heavy Equipment Operator	$16.71		$0.33	$17.04	$0.58	$17.29	$1.17	$17.88	$1.67	$18.38	$2.01	$18.72
Working Team Leader - Maintenance	$16.97		$0.34	$17.31	$0.59	$17.56	$1.19	$18.16	$1.70	$18.67	$2.04	$19.01
Senior Auto Stock Clerk	$17.28		$0.35	$17.63	$0.60	$17.88	$1.21	$18.49	$1.73	$19.01	$2.07	$19.35
Working Crew Leader	$18.03		$0.36	$18.39	$0.63	$18.66	$1.26	$19.29	$1.80	$19.83	$2.16	$20.19
Senior Automotive Mechanic	$18.03		$0.36	$18.39	$0.63	$18.66	$1.26	$19.29	$1.80	$19.83	$2.16	$20.19
Working Team Leader - Construction	$18.38		$0.37	$18.75	$0.64	$19.02	$1.29	$19.67	$1.84	$20.22	$2.21	$20.59
Sr. Wrking Team Ldr - Construction	$19.88		$0.40	$20.28	$0.70	$20.58	$1.39	$21.27	$1.99	$21.87	$2.39	$22.27
Head Maintenance Worker	$21.00		$0.42	$21.42	$0.74	$21.74	$1.47	$22.47	$2.10	$23.10	$2.52	$23.52
3%
2001 CSEA HIGHWAY
(Base + Longevity) x 10% Shift
Highway Titles	Hourly Base Rate		5 Yr Lo 1996 2%	5 Year Anniv Rate	10 Yr Lo 1991 3.5%	10 Year Anniv Rate	15 Yr Lo 1986 7%	15 Year Anniv Rate	20 Yr Lo 1981 10%	20 Year Anniv Rate	25 Yr Lo 1976 12%	25 Year Anniv Rate
Laborer - Seasonal	$12.22			...	—.		—		— — —	-—		— — —
Engineering Aide - Seasonal	$13.47		—	—	—	—	—	—	—		—	—-
Maintenance Helper	$10.22		$0.20	$10.42	$0.36	$10.58	$0.72	$10.94	$1.02	$11.24	$1.23	$11.45
Laborer	$14.45		$0.29	$14.74	$0.51	$14.96	$1.01	$15.46	$1.45	$15.90	$1.73	$16.18
Automotive Stockroom Attendant	$14.97		$0.30	$15.27	$0.52	$15.49	$1.05	$16.02	$1.50	$16.47	$1.80	$16.77
Garage Attendant	$14.97		$0.30	$15.27	$0.52	$15.49	$1.05	$16.02	$1.50	$16.47	$1.80	$16.77
Motor Equipment Operator - Light	$14.97		$0.30	$15.27	$0.52	$15.49	$1.05	$16.02	$1.50	$16.47	$1.80	$16.77
Sign Painter	$15.89		$0.32	$16.21	$0.56	$16.45	$1.11	$17.00	$1.59	$17.48	$1.91	$17.80
Automotive Mechanic Helper	$15.89		$0.32	$16.21	$0.56	$16.45	$1.11	$17.00	$1.59	$17.48	$1.91	$17.80
Motor Equipment Operator	$15.89		$0.32	$16.21	$0.56	$16.45	$1.11	$17.00	$1.59	$17.48	$1.91	$17.80
Automotive Mechanic	$17.21		$0.34	$17.55	$0.60	$17.81	$1.20	$18.41	$1.72	$18.93	$2.07	$19.28
Automotive Stock Clerk	$17.21		$0.34	$17.55	$0.60	$17.81	$1.20	$18.41	$1.72	$18.93	$2.07	$19.28
Heavy Equipment Operator	$17.21		$0.34	$17.55	$0.60	$17.81	$1.20	$18.41	$1.72	$18.93	$2.07	$19.28
Working Team Leader - Maintenance	$17.48		$0.35	$17.83	$0.61	$18.09	$1.22	$18.70	$1.75	$19.23	$2.10	$19.58
Senior Auto Stock Clerk	$17.80		$0.36	$18.16	$0.62	$18.42	$1.25	$19.05	$1.78	$19.58	$2.14	$19.94
Working Crew Leader	$18.57		$0.37	$18.94	$0.65	$19.22	$1.30	$19.87	$1.86	$20.43	$2.23	$20.80
Senior Automotive Mechanic	$18.57		$0.37	$18.94	$0.65	$19.22	$1.30	$19.87	$1.86	$20.43	$2.23	$20.80
Working Team Leader - Construction	$18.93		$0.38	$19.31	$0.66	$19.59	$1.33	$20.26	$1.89	$20.82	$2.27	$21.20
Sr. Wrking Team Ldr - Construction	$20.48		$0.41	$20.89	$0.72	$21.20	$1.43	$21.91	$2.05	$22.53	$2.46	$22.94
Head Maintenance Worker	$21.63		$0.43	$22.06	$0.76	$22.39	$1.51	$23.14	$2.16	$23.79	$2.60	$24.23
3%
2002 CSEA HIGHWAY
(Base + Longevity) x 10% Shift
Highway Titles	Hourly Base Rate		5 Yr Lo 1997 2%	5 Year Anniv Rate	10 Yr Lo 1992 3.5%	10 Year Anniv Rate	15 Yr Lo 1987 7%	15 Year Anniv Rate	20 Yr Lo 1982 10%	20 Year Anniv Rate	25 Yr Lo 1977 12%	25 Year Anniv Rate
Laborer - Seasonal	$12.59		...		—	—		—	—.	—	—	—
Engineering Aide - Seasonal	$13.87		—	—	—	—	—	—	—-	—-	—	—
Maintenance Helper	$10.53		$0.21	$10.74	$0.37	$10.90	$0.74	$11.27	$1.05	$11.58	$1.26	$11.79
Laborer	$14.88		$0.30	$15.18	$0.52	$15.40	$1.04	$15.92	$1.49	$16.37	$1.79	$16.67
Automotive Stockroom Attendant	$15.42		$0.31	$15.73	$0.54	$15.96	$1.08	$16.50	$1.54	$16.96	$1.85	$17.27
Garage Attendant	$15.42		$0.31	$15.73	$0.54	$15.96	$1.08	$16.50	$1.54	$16.96	$1.85	$17.27
Motor Equipment Operator - Light	$15.42		$0.31	$15.73	$0.54	$15.96	$1.08	$16.50	$1.54	$16.96	$1.85	$17.27
Sign Painter	$16.37		$0.33	$16.70	$0.57	$16.94	$1.15	$17.52	$1.64	$18.01	$1.96	$18.33
Automotive Mechanic Helper	$16.37		$0.33	$16.70	$0.57	$16.94	$1.15	$17.52	$1.64	$18.01	$1.96	$18.33
Motor Equipment Operator	$16.37		$0.33	$16.70	$0.57	$16.94	$1.15	$17.52	$1.64	$18.01	$1.96	$18.33
Automotive Mechanic	$17.73		$0.35	$18.08	$0.62	$18.35	$1.24	$18.97	$1.77	$19.50	$2.13	$19.86
Automotive Stock Clerk	$17.73		$0.35	$18.08	$0.62	$18.35	$1.24	$18.97	$1.77	$19.50	$2.13	$19.86
Heavy Equipment Operator	$17.73		$0.35	$18.08	$0.62	$18.35	$1.24	$18.97	$1.77	$19.50	$2.13	$19.86
Working Team Leader - Maintenance	$18.00		$0.36	$18.36	$0.63	$18.63	$1.26	$19.26	$1.80	$19.80	$2.16	$20.16
Senior Auto Stock Clerk	$18.33		$0.37	$18.70	$0.64	$18.97	$1.28	$19.61	$1.83	$20.16	$2.20	$20.53
Working Crew Leader	$19.13		$0.38	$19.51	$0.67	$19.80	$1.34	$20.47	$1.91	$21.04	$2.30	$21.43
Senior Automotive Mechanic	$19.13		$0.38	$19.51	$0.67	$19.80	$1.34	$20.47	$1.91	$21.04	$2.30	$21.43
Working Team Leader - Construction	$19.50		$0.39	$19.89	$0.68	$20.18	$1.37	$20.87	$1.95	$21.45	$2.34	$21.84
Sr. Wrking Team Ldr - Construction	$21.09		$0.42	$21.51	$0.74	$21.83	$1.48	$22.57	$2.11	$23.20	$2.53	$23.62
Head Maintenance Worker	$22.28		$0.45	$22.73	$0.78	$23.06	$1.56	$23.84	$2.23	$24.51	$2.67	$24.95
1999 HPURLY_EMPLOY.EE RATE?
2.6%
ALL DEPARTMENTS H.E.R. Titles	Per...	Substitute Schedule	Regularly Scheduled	Unrestricted Schedule
SCCC Lab Aides	hour	—	—	$6.84
Library Page II	hour	—	-—	$7.84
Student Worker (hired prior to 5/19/88)	hour	—	—	$8.32
Library Page I	hour	$8.32	$8.62	—
Project Aide - Aging	hour	$8.39	$8.69	——
Laborer - COB	hour	$11.00	$11.39	—
Pharmacist	hour	$17.22	$17.83	—
Student Worker	hour		 Current Federal Minimum Wage		—
Court Attendant	diem	—	Per UCS - OCA Contract	—
Regularly scheduled employees receive an additional 3.6%.
All permanent employees below the supervisory level will be compensated at a rate of time and one-half for all hours In excess of eight (8) hours In any work day, or forty (40) hours in any work week, providing they are directed by, or have the approval of the Department Head.
All employees, exclusive of the Highway Department, required to work on Saturday or Sunday, will receive a twelve (12) percent differential.
All Student Workers hired on or after May 19, 1988 will be paid In accordance with the current minimum wage set up by Law for the duration of their employment as Student Workers.
3%
2000 HOURLY EMPLOYEE RATES
ALL DEPARTMENTS H.E.R. Titles	Per...	Substitute Schedule	Regularly Scheduled	Unrestricted Schedule
SCCC Lab Aides	hour	-—	—~	$7.05
Library Page II	hour	—-	—	$8.08
Student Worker (hired prior to 5/19/88)	hour	—	—	$8.57
Library Page I	hour	$8.57	$8.88	—
Project Aide - Aging	hour	$8.64	$8.95	—-
Laborer - COB	hour	$11.33	$11.73	—
Pharmacist	hour	$17.74	$18.36	—
Student Worker	hour .		 Current Federal Minimum Wage		—
Court Attendant	diem	—	Per UCS - OCA Contract	—
Regularly scheduled employees receive an additional 3.6%.
All permanent employees below the supervisory level will be compensated at a rate of time and one-half for all hours in excess of eight (8) hours in any work day, or forty (40) hours In any work week, providing they are directed by, or have the approval of the Department Head.
All employees, exclusive of the Highway Department, required to work on Saturday or Sunday, will receive a twelve (12) percent differential.
All Student Workers hired on or after May 19, 1988 will be paid In accordance with the current minimum wage set up by Law for the duration of their employment as Student Workers.
3%
2001 HOURLY EMPLOYEE RATES
ALL DEPARTMENTS H.E.R. Titles	Per...	Substitute Schedule	Regularly Scheduled	Unrestricted Schedule
SCCC Lab Aides	hour	—-	-—	$7.26
Library Page II	hour	—	—	$8.32
Student Worker (hired prior to 5/19/88)	hour	—	—	$8.83
Library Page I	hour	$8.83	$9.15	—
Project Aide - Aging	hour	$8.90	$9.22	—
Laborer - COB	hour	$11.67	$12.08	—
Pharmacist	hour	$18.27	$18.91	—
Student Worker	hour		 Current Federal Minimum Wage		—
Court Attendant	diem	—	Per UCS - OCA Contract	—
Regularly scheduled employees receive an additional 3.6%.
All permanent employees below the supervisory level will be compensated at a rate of time and one-half for all hours In excess of eight (8) hours in any work day, or forty (40) hours In any work week, providing they are directed by, or have the approval of the Department Head.
All employees, exclusive of the Highway Department, required to work on Saturday or Sunday, will receive a twelve (12) percent differential.
All Student Workers hired on or after May 19, 1988 will be paid In accordance with the current minimum wage set up by Law for the duration of their employment as Student Workers.
3%
2002 HOURLY EMPLOYEE RATES
ALL DEPARTMENTS H.E.R. Titles	Per...	Substitute Schedule	Regularly Scheduled	Unrestricted Schedule
SCCC Lab Aides	hour	—-	—	$7.48
Library Page II	hour	—-	—	$8.57
Student Worker (hired prior to 5/19/88)	hour	—-	—	$9.09
Library Page I	hour	$9.09	$9.42	—
Project Aide - Aging	hour	$9.17	$9.50	—
Laborer - COB	hour	$12.02	$12.44	—
Pharmacist	hour	$18.82	$19.48	—
Student Worker	hour		 Current Federal Minimum Wage		—
Court Attendant	diem	—	Per DCS - OCA Contract	—
Regularly scheduled employees receive an additional 3.6%.
All permanent employees below the supervisory level will be compensated at a rate of time and one-half for all hours In excess of eight (8) hours In any work day, or forty (40) hours In any work week, providing they are directed by, or have the approval of the Department Head.
All employees, exclusive of the Highway Department, required to work on Saturday or Sunday, will receive a twelve (12) percent differential.
All Student Workers hired on or after May 19, 1988 will be paid in accordance with the current minimum wage set up by Law for the duration of their employment as Student Workers.