Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Rockland, County of and Rockland County Unit, Civil Service Employees Association, Inc. (CSEA) Local 1000, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO, Local 844 (2002)
K#: 820535
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
'A 4* $205 35
AGREEMENT
by and between the
COUNTY OF ROCKLAND
and
CSEA, Local 1000 AFSCME, AFL-CIO
CSE^
Rockland County Unit
Rockland County Local 844
January 1,2002 — December 31,2004
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE..................................................... 1
ARTICLE
I	Parties to the Agreement......................... 1
II	Affirmation Not to Strike......................... 1
III	Appropriate Negotiating Unit...................... 1
IV	Scope of the Agreement............................ 2
V	Rights and Responsibilities of the Employer,
Employees and Union............................ 2
VI	Labor Management Committee........................ 5
VII	Collection of Dues................................ 6
VIII	Salary Plan....................................... 7
IX	Basic Work Week and Basic	Work Period............. 9
X	Hours of Work.................................... 10
XI	Overtime......................................... 11
XII	Overtime for Registered Nurses, Practical Nurses,
Nurses Aides, Mental Health Workers, Food Service Employees and BCI............................. 12
XIII	Stand By Time.................................... 13
XIV	Leave with Pay.................................... 13
Holidays.................................... 13
Vacation.................................... 14
Sick Leave.................................. 15
Extended Sick Leave........................  17
Personal Leave.............................. 17
Leave for Court and Jury Appearance......... 18
Leave for Civil Service Examination......... 18
Military Leave and Other Leave Required by Law.......................................... 18
Educational Leave........................... 18
Wage Continuation Plan - Work Related........ 18
Bereavement Leave........................... 20
XV	Leave Without Pay................................ 20
General..................................... 20
Maternity................................... 20
Child Rearing............................... 20
XVI	Medical, Surgical and Hospitalization Insurance,
and Other Benefits........................ 20
Medical, Surgical and Hospitalization	Plan... 20
Vision Plan................................. 21
Dental Plan................................  21
Contribution for New Hires.................  22
Lag for New Hires.........................   22
XVII	Participation in the New York State Retirement
System....................................... 22
XVIII	Grievance and Disciplinary Procedure............ 23
XIX	Definitions of Terms as Used In This Agreement.... 23
XX	General Provisions............................. 24
Bulletin Boards.......................... 24
Working Environment...................... 24
Uniforms ................................ 25
Mileage Allowance ....................... 25
Rest Period ............................. 25
Meals/Meal Allowance .................... 25
Snow Emergency .......................... 26
Reclassification ........................ 26
Clean-Up Period .......................   26
Tuition Reimbursement ................... 27
Personnel Files...........................	27
Travel Time ............................. 28
XXI	Reduction In Force............................. 28
XXII	Recall......................................... 29
XXIII	Effective Date and Duration of This Agreement... 29
XXIV	Necessity for Approval by the Appropriate
Legislative Body............................ 29
XXV	Retroactivity.................................. 30
APPENDIX A	GRIEVANCE AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE.......... 31
APPENDIX B	SALARY PLAN.................................. 36
PART A	Salary Plan............................... 36
PART B	Salary Grade Allocation................... 42
PART C	Salary Grade Schedule..................... 68
APPENDIX C	SICK LEAVE BANK.............................. 74
APPENDIX D	TRAVEL MILEAGE CHART......................... 76
APPENDIX E	OPTICAL RATE SHEET........................... 77
INDEX
78
PREAMBLE
Whereas it is the intent and purpose of the parties to this Agreement to:
1.	establish and maintain a harmonious and cooperative relationship between the County of Rockland and its employees in order to protect the public by assuring at all times the orderly and uninterrupted operation and function of government;
2.	comply with the requirements of the Public Employees' Fair Employment Act by recognizing the rights of the employees of the County of Rockland to self organization and representation for collective negotiations on the terms and conditions of employment.
Now in consideration of the mutual obligations contained herein the parties agree as follows:
article i - EartiesJtQJthQ-Agregniont
1.	The parties to this Agreement are the County of Rockland, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer", and Civil Service Employees Association, Inc., Local 1000, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Union, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the "Union," for the Rockland County Unit.
2.	The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of all those County Employees determined to be in the appropriate negotiating unit for the term of the Agreement.
article n- Affirmation Mot Io strike
The Union affirms that it does not assert the right to strike. Nor shall the Union cause, Instigate, encourage or condone a strike.
article in - Appropriate JN«?aotiating Unit
1.	Unless otherwise stated, the provisions of this Agreement apply to all employees of the County of Rockland except:
a.	All employees in the unclassified service.
b.	All employees in the exempt class of the classified service.
c.	The officer or head of each department, office or agency who has the power to appoint pursuant to law; any employee appointed as a deputy to such office, or head of department, office or agency and is paid as such; chief executive or director of each department, office or agency under the jurisdiction of a Board or Commission.
d.	Employees in existing	recognized	or certified	bargaining units.
e.	Student employees.
f.	All executive, managerial, administrative,	confidential employees.
g.	Security Officers.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc	j
h.	Relief employees who work less than 130 hours in any calendar quarter and 520 hours in any calendar year.
i.	Any part-time employee hired on or after January 1, 1980 who works less than 130 hours in any calendar quarter and 520 hours in any calendar year.
ARTICLE IV - Scone of the Agreement
1.	It is understood and agreed by the parties to this Agreement that any provision inconsistent with or contrary to law or rules and regulations having the force and effect of law shall be considered as deleted from the Agreement without harm to the remaining provisions of the Agreement.
If any article or section of this Agreement or any addendum thereto should be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any article or section should be restrained by such tribunal, the remainder of this Agreement and addenda shall not be affected thereby, and the parties shall enter Into immediate collective negotiations for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such article or section.
2.	The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which preceded this Agreement each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective negotiations and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore, for the life of this Agreement the Employer and the Union each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated, to negotiate collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subjects or matters may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated and signed this Agreement.
3.	The provisions of this Agreement, except as limited within the Agreement, apply to all permanent, provisional and temporary employees working in a position duly established by the legislative body in the competitive, non-competitive and labor classes in the classified service.
4.	Part-time employees covered by this Agreement shall benefit from the provisions contained therein for vacation, sick, holiday and personal leave accruals, except as limited by Article XIV, Section 1, in the proportion that the position as established or subdivided bears to the basic work week or work period of full-time positions in that title or job category. However, no such employee shall receive such benefits at a percentage rate higher than that determined by the number of hours of the position as established or subdivided.
ARTICLE V - Rights And Responsibilities Of The Employer, Employees And The Union
The intent and purpose of the within Article is to set forth the rights and responsibilities of the Employer, Employees and the Union consistent with law. Nothing contained herein shall deprive the Employer and Employees of any protection and/or rights they have under this Agreement, the New York State Civil Service Law and any other applicable law.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
2
1.
General Rights and Responsibilities of the Employer
a. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as delegating the authority conferred by law on any elected official, department, office or agency head, or the chief executive officer, or director of any department, office or agency under the jurisdiction of a Board or Commission or in any way to reduce or abridge such authority.
The rights and responsibilities of the Employer include but are not necessarily limited to the following:
1)	To determine the standards of services to be offered by its offices, agencies and departments;
2)	To direct employees of the County;
3)	To hire, promote, transfer, assign and retain employees and to suspend, demote, discharge or take disciplinary action against employees;
4)	To relieve employees from duties because of lack of work, or for other legitimate reasons;
5)	To maintain the efficiency of government operations entrusted to them;
6)	To determine the methods, means and personnel by which such operations are to be conducted;
7)	To take whatever actions may be necessary to carry out the mission of the department, office or agency concerned.
2.	General Rights and Responsibilities of the Employees and the Union
a.	County employees shall have the right to form, join and participate In or refrain from forming, joining or participating in the Union free from interference, coercion, restraint, discrimination or reprisal.
b.	The Union has the right to represent all County employees in the negotiating unit on any matter concerning the terms and conditions of employment within the limits of this Agreement. However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as to preclude any employee, regardless of Union membership, from bringing matters of personal concern directly to the attention of the appropriate appointing authority in accordance with applicable law, rules and/or regulations having the force and effect of law or pursuant to the established policy of the appointing authority.
c.	The Union is entitled to have at least one, but no more than two, County employees, in addition to a CSEA staff employee, present as a representative of an employee who is a member of the bargaining unit at any stage of a grievance and at any interrogation of such employee in connection with a proceeding in which the employee is the target of charges of incompetency or misconduct. Such representatives may also be present at any grievance arbitration hearing or disciplinary arbitration hearing held in which an employee member of the bargaining unit is the grievant or subject of a disciplinary proceeding pursuant to law or the provisions of this agreement. However, employees shall have an unqualified right to choose their own representative or to determine they do not want representation at any stage of the
C:\My DocumentsXCSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
3
grievance or disciplinary proceeding, in which case the Union shall have the right to have one representative present as an observer.
d.	Union Representatives
1)	The Union shall designate one (1) representative for each operating location of the office, institution, department or agency concerned. The Union shall furnish the Employer a list of the representatives' names and their assigned areas and shall keep the list current at all times.
2)	When requested by the employee, a representative may investigate any alleged grievance in the employee's assigned work area and assist in its presentation. The employee shall be allowed reasonable time therefore during working hours without loss of time or pay, upon notification and with the approval of the employee's immediate supervisor.
3)	It is agreed and understood that the activities of the Union representatives shall be carried out in a manner that will minimize interference with normal work functions.
e.	Negotiating Committee
1)	The negotiating committee of the Union shall consist of at least one member from each CSEA section of the County and the CSEA Rockland County Unit President. The Union shall furnish the Employer a list of the negotiating committee members and shall keep the list current at all times.
2)	Members of the negotiating committee of the Union shall be allowed reasonable time off for negotiations as necessary during regular working hours without loss of time or pay upon notification and with the approval of their respective Immediate supervisor.
f.	It is agreed and understood that any Employee who is absent from work under the provisions of Section d and/or Section e of this Article, shall not be compensated for any hours in excess of the employee's regular working hours.
g.	1) Individuals who have achieved permanent status and who are covered under Section 75 or 76 of the Civil Service Law shall, upon written waiver of their rights under said section(s), be afforded binding arbitration.
2)	All permanent labor and non-competitive employees in the unit not otherwise covered by Section 75 or 76 of the Civil Service Law, with twelve (12) or more months of continuous permanent labor or non-competitive class service in the unit, shall be afforded binding arbitration with respect to removal and other disciplinary action, except as otherwise provided herein.
3)	Written notice of charges and the proposed penalty or penalties shall be provided to the employee concerned and a copy of such shall be sent to the President of the Union. Pending a hearing on the charges, the employee may be suspended without pay for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, forty-five (45) days in the case of individuals not covered under Section 75 or 76 of the Civil Service Law. In a case where a delay in establishing a date for, or the completion of, a hearing is caused solely by the actions of the employee or the employee's representative, the suspension without pay may continue until such time as the hearing is completed.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
4
4)	No removal or disciplinary proceeding shall be commenced more than eighteen (18) months after the occurrence of the alleged incompetency or misconduct complained of and described in the charges provided, however, such limitations shall not apply where the Incompetency or misconduct complained of and described in the charges would, if proved In a court of appropriate jurisdiction, constitute a crime.
5)	The arbitrator shall be selected and appointed in the manner set forth in Article XVIII Appendix A - (D) (Arbitration).
6)	The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Employer and the Union. The cost of stenographic services, if any, shall be borne by the party who requests same and said party shall supply a copy of said stenographic record to the other, free of charge.
h.	Notwithstanding Section 75 and 76 of the Civil Service Law and any other applicable law and any other provisions of this Agreement, any employees covered by this Agreement may be issued letters of reprimand, copies of which shall be placed in the employees' personnel file as set forth in Article XX. 18 and sent to the Union. The letters of reprimand shall inform employees of their rights to make written replies to same.
I.	Absence Without Leave
1)	When an employee is absent without leave and without notification in writing to the employer for a period of ten (10) consecutive work days, such absence shall be considered to constitute a resignation to become effective on the date the absence began.
2)	Should an employee fail to return to work within ten (10) consecutive work days following the expiration or extension of a leave of absence, such absence shall constitute a resignation (which for the purposes of determining eligibility for reinstatement shall be deemed to be effective the date which marked the beginning of such leave of absence), unless such employee shall have submitted within said ten (10) day period notification in writing.
3)	Nothing herein shall be deemed to excuse the unauthorized absence of an employee, or failure to return to work upon the expiration of an authorized leave of absence, nor to waive any rights the County may have to take any appropriate disciplinary action.
ARTICLE VI - Labor Management Committee
1.	CSEA and the County recognize the need for communication to resolve issues of ongoing concern to either or both of the parties. To facilitate such communication, there is hereby established a Labor Management Committee consisting of four (4) members designated by the County Executive and four (4) members designated by the President of CSEA. The Committee shall meet as reasonably required and agreed, to deal with issues as they arise.
2.	The Committee shall consider (a) the limitations, if any, which shall be imposed on employees who are regularly required to use video display terminals for protracted periods of time, (b) alternate methods of scheduling, for example, holiday scheduling, flex time, (c) employee tardiness, (d) employee safety, and (e) the development of a plan for an employee suggestion program.
C:\My DocumentsXCSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
5
3.	Except in an emergency, at least ten (10) days notice of the need for a meeting shall be given and the request for the meeting shall identify its subject matter. Upon consent of the County Executive and the President, each shall have the right to bring such additional persons as they require to meetings of the Committee.
4.	The Committee may consider matters of concern to the County and to CSEA. It shall not be authorized to consider or negotiate any change in the provisions of the Agreement.
ARTICLE VII	- Collection of Dues
1.	Membership Dues
Upon written authorization of the employee concerned and unless said employee subsequently revokes such written authorization, the Employer shall deduct membership dues from the employee's bi-weekly pay in the amounts specified in the written authorization. The amounts so deducted shall be forwarded to the Union at regular intervals.
2.	Agency Shop
a.	Effective January 1, 1980, the Employer agrees, in accordance with Chapter 677 of the 1977 Laws of New York, to deduct from the salary of an employee who is not a member of the Union, but who is represented by the Union for the purpose of collective negotiation, an Agency Shop Fee In an amount equivalent to the amount of dues payable by a member of the Union, provided that the Union establish and maintain a procedure providing for the refund to any employee demanding the return of any part of such Agency Shop Fee, deductions which represent the employee's pro-rata share of the expenditures by the Union In aid of activities or causes only incidentally related to terms and conditions of employment.
b.	The Union shall Indemnify the Employer against all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, Incurred In the defense of any proceeding before a court or administrative agency commenced by an employee alleging the invalidity of such refund procedure or the improper deduction of agency fees. The Union shall pay any judgment which may be entered against the Employer in such a proceeding.
3.	Deductions
As soon as reasonably possible, and upon written authorization of the employee concerned and unless said employee subsequently rescinds such written authorization, the Employer agrees to permit deductions from the employee's wage for:
a.	Insurance premiums for home, automobile, accident and life insurance coverage sponsored by the Union;
b.	Individual retirement accounts;
c.	Tax sheltered annuities;
d.	Deferred compensation plans;
e.	Credit unions [not more than two (2)].
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
6
However, it is agreed and understood the number of vendors which are permitted to participate in sub-section b, c and d above, shall be at the sole discretion of the Employer.
It is further agreed and understood that notwithstanding anything else to the contrary, such deductions must comply with appropriate law and must function within the present capacity of the system, and must not require purchase of new equipment.
It is further agreed and understood that the Union shall indemnify and hold the County harmless for any claims arising from an act of omission or commission on the part of the Employer.
ARTICLE VIII	- Salary Plan
It Is agreed and understood that the official rate of pay is an hourly rate as shown in Appendix B, Part C.
1.	Waoe/Salarv Grade Increases
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
Effective January 1, 2002, the wage/salary grade schedule contained in Article VIII, Appendix B, Part C shall be increased by 4.00% over the schedule in effect on December 31, 2001.
Effective January 1, 2003 the wage/salary grade schedule contained in Article VIII, Appendix B, Part C shall be increased by 3.75% over the schedule in effect on December 31, 2002.
Effective January 1, 2004, the wage/salary grade schedule contained in Article VIII, Appendix B, Part C shall be increased by 3.75% over the schedule in effect on December 31, 2003.
Increments, where applicable, shall be awarded in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Only those unit employees who are employed by the County on or after January 1, 2002 or the date of ratification of the Memorandum of Agreement by the Legislature of Rockland County, whichever is later, shall be eligible for wage increases and/or retroactive wage adjustments, except that employees who have died, retired, or become disabled from work-related injury shall be eligible for retroactive wage adjustments for any applicable period(s) of active service on the payroll during the contract period.
2.	Administration of the Salary Plan
Provisions for the administration of the salary plan are contained in Appendix B, Part A.
3.	Reallocation Requests
a.	An employee or group of employees may request reallocation of their position title in the salary grades. Such requests shall be in writing addressed to the Commissioner of Personnel and the requestor(s) shall supply whatever data Is required to enable the Commissioner of Personnel to make a recommendation.
b.	Should the Commissioner of Personnel recommend reallocation, such recommendation shall be forwarded to the County Legislature.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc	7
c.	Should the Commissioner of Personnel recommend against reallocation, the Union on behalf of the appellant, may appeal such recommendation to the Reallocations Appeal Board (hereinafter referred to as the Board) as set forth below.
d.	The Board which is hereby established shall be composed of five (5) persons, three (3) of whom shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Chairman of the Legislature, and two (2) members shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the President of the Union.
e.	1) Appeals to the Board shall be in writing and accompanied by supporting documentation and shall be submitted to the Office of the Chairman of the Legislature for forwarding to the Board.
2)	Upon receipt of an appeal, the Board shall notify the Commissioner of Personnel, who shall then provide the recommendation and supporting documentation to the Board.
3)	The Board shall consider the written documentation submitted by both the Union and the Commissioner of Personnel in making its recommendation, but may request additional information as it deems necessary. The Board, In its discretion, may take testimony of parties, or other persons.
4)	The Board shall adopt Its own rules and regulations consistent with this Article. Decisions of the Board shall be by majority vote of the members of the Board.
f.	1) Should the Board recommend against reallocation, that decision is final and binding, and no further appeal may be had, subject to the following:
a)	After twelve (12) months from the date of the Board's denial, a new request for reallocation may be presented to the Commissioner of Personnel in conformance with the procedures in this Agreement.
b)	Such request must contain a reasonable change from the appeal previously denied by the Board. Should such request not contain such reasonable change, it shall be returned to the requestor without further recommendation. Such decision of the Commissioner of Personnel shall not be subject to the grievance procedure; nor is same appealable to the Board.
c)	Should the Commissioner of Personnel determine that reasonable change has been shown, but nevertheless recommends against reallocation, the Union, In behalf of the appellant, may appeal such recommendation to the Board as set forth supra, and same shall be considered as a new appeal.
2)	Should the Board recommend reallocation to another salary grade, the Board shall forward such recommendation to the Legislature.
g.	Should the Legislature adopt the recommendation of the Board, Implementation shall be governed by Subsection 6 of Appendix B, Part A. (Article VIII - Salary Plan).
h.	It is understood that no employee shall have any claim against the County for any salary differences for any period prior to the date changes in allocation become effective.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
8
i.	This Article and its provisions are not subject to the grievance procedure, and the right to appeal any decision or recommendation made pursuant to same is hereby waived.
4.	Pay Equity Study
The County shall undertake a pay equity study of employment in County government with a view towards the submission of recommendations for any necessary or appropriate reallocations of positions. Upon receipt and review of the study, the County Executive shall present such recommendations for reallocation of positions to the County Legislature. The County's financial commitment towards implementing any recommendations of the study which are approved by the County Legislature shall be limited to a rate of Four Hundred Thousand dollars ($400,000) per year.
5.	Shjft-Pififerantial
A ten percent (10%) shift differential shall be paid to any employee who works a second or third shift.
ARTICLE IX	- Basic Work Week and Basic Work Period
1.	Basic Work Week
a.	Forty (40) Hours
The basic work week for County employees shall be forty (40) hours, except for the following classes of employees.
1)	Registered nurses, practical nurses, nurses aides, mental health workers and food service employees assigned to or working in the Department of Hospitals and the Department of Mental Health.
2)	Clerical personnel (except Senior File Clerks-BCI).
3)	Professional, technical, administrative and supervisory personnel other than those directly involved in a three (3) shift, twenty-four (24) hour a day, seven (7) day a week operation; those engaged in construction, inspection of construction, renovating, remodeling, alteration or maintenance of public works and County facilities; and those who are employed by, assigned to or working in County institutions and are engaged in providing institutional domiciliary or medical care or ancillary laboratory or paramedical services.
4)	Such other classes of employees as may be determined by the Employer.
b.	Thirty-Five (35) Hours
The basic work week for the following classes of employees shall be thirty-five (35) hours.
1)	Clerical personnel.
2)	Professional, technical, administrative and supervisory personnel other than those directly involved in a three (3) shift, twenty-four (24) hour a day, seven (7) day a week operation; those engaged in construction, inspection of construction,
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
9
renovating, remodeling, alteration or maintenance of public works and County facilities; and those who are employed by, assigned to or working in County institutions and are engaged in providing institutional domiciliary or medical care or ancillary laboratory or paramedical services.
3)	Such other classes of employees as may be determined by the employer.
2.	The basic work week shall be completed within five (5) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods within a recurring period of one hundred sixty-eight (168) continuous hours, i.e., seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods, beginning at 12:01 a.m. Saturday and ending at 12 midnight the following Friday, except that the Employer may designate a different recurring period of one hundred sixty-eight (168) continuous hours for all or any class of employees as may be required by the operations of the department, institution, office or agency concerned. This section is Intended only to provide a fixed reference for the purpose of determining the number of hours of overtime that might be worked In any one (1) week.
3.	Basic Work Period
The basic work period for registered nurses, practical nurses, nurses aides, mental health workers and food service employees assigned to or working in the Department of Hospitals and the Department of Mental Health, and all employees in the BCI and Communications Division in the Sheriff's Department, except for clerical personnel and radio operators, shall be eighty (80) hours In a fourteen (14) day period.
' 4. The basic work period shall be completed within fourteen (14) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods beginning at 12:01 a.m. Saturday, at the end of which a new fourteen (14) day period begins.
5.	The work week or work period for part-time employees shall be determined by the appointing authority but in no event shall exceed the basic work week or period provided for in this Article.
6.	An employee must work the total number of hours in a basic work week or work period; if for any reason they work less, except for tardiness, the employee shall not be paid for time not worked unless on authorized leave with pay.
Nothing herein shall be deemed to excuse the unauthorized absence of an employee, nor to waive any rights the County may have to take any other appropriate action.
ARTICLE X - Hours of Work
1.	Offices shall be open for the transaction of business from at least 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding holidays, except as otherwise required by the Employer.
2.	Where an agency, office, department or institution conducts certain functions or operations on a twenty-four (24) hour basis or on other than a 9 to 5 basis, the working days and hours of an employee shall be established by the appointing authority in a manner not inconsistent with this Agreement.
3.	In the event that the appointing authority establishes hours of work other than the regular hours of work pursuant to subdivision 2 hereof, assignment of employees shall be made from among those employees having the skills and abilities required for the work and who
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
10
volunteer to work such hours, on the basis of seniority, and then from among other such employees on the basis of inverse order of seniority.
4.	No employee shall regularly be required to work a split shift. For purposes of this section a "split shift" is defined as a work schedule pursuant to which the employee regularly is required to work for a fixed period of time, is released from duty for a period of two (2) hours or more and then is required to work an additional fixed period. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prevent recalls to work, the assignment of overtime, or to prevent changes in a shift in the middle of a week, provided, however, that an employee who is changed from one shift to another, after said employee's work week has commenced, shall receive as compensation for the inconvenience caused thereby, premium pay of one and one-half the employee's normal rate of pay (in lieu of the employee's ordinary rate of pay) for the first day said employee works such new shift.
5.	New shift assignments shall be from among those employees who apply, based on departmental seniority. Such shift assignments, based on departmental seniority, shall be limited to the Initial assignment and any second assignment resulting therefrom.
ARTICLE XI - Overtime
The provisions of Sections 2, 3, 4, and 6 of this article shall not apply to registered nurses, practical nurses, nurse’s aides, mental health workers and food service employees assigned to or working in the Department of Hospitals and the Department of Mental Health, and all employees in the BCI and Communications Division in the Sheriff's Department, except for clerical personnel and radio operators. Such employees shall be compensated for overtime in accordance with the provisions of Article XII.
1.	Overtime must be authorized in advance by the appointing authority or those so designated. An employee shall work overtime when so required. However, no employee shall be required to work overtime unless given reasonable notice. What constitutes reasonable notice shall be determined after considering all circumstances of the situation requiring such overtime work. Assignment of overtime shall be on a rotating basis from among those employees having the skills and abilities required for the work, and who volunteer for such assignment, and then from among other such employees on the basis of Inverse order of seniority.
2.	Required and authorized hours of work in excess of forty (40) hours, up to and including forty-eight (48) hours in any basic work week, shall be compensated at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) times the regular hourly rate of the employee concerned.
3.	Required and authorized hours of work in excess of forty-eight (48) hours in any basic work week shall be compensated at the rate of two (2) times the regular hourly rate of the employee concerned.
4.	Required and authorized hours of work on a regular assigned day of rest shall be compensated at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) times the regular hourly rate of the employee concerned.
5.	It is agreed and understood that the provisions of Section 2, 3 or 4 shall not be construed under any circumstances as establishing a basis for duplicate, concurrent or overlapping claims of overtime for the same hours of work; for example, claim for overtime on the basis of work on a day of rest shall not establish an additional claim for overtime, if such work is also in excess of forty (40) hours in the basic work week.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
11
6.	a. An employee whose basic work week is thirty-five (35) hours shall be paid a regular hourly rate of pay for any hours worked up to and including five (5) hours in excess of thirty-five (35) hours in any basic work week or shall receive compensatory time off for such hours at the option of the employee.
b. If such an employee works more than forty (40) hours in the employee's basic work week, said employee shall also be compensated at the employee's regular hourly rate -for the five (5) hours in excess of thirty-five (35) hours In lieu of compensatory time off and for the hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any basic work week at the rate as provided for in this Article.	•
7.	Compensatory time off shall be taken at a time satisfactory to the appointing authority and the employee but under no circumstances shall be taken later than the sixth calendar quarter after the calendar quarter in which the overtime work was completed. Any compensatory time not liquidated within the time limit of this section shall be cancelled.
8.	Leave with pay shall be included In determining the total number of hours worked in any basic work week.
9.	Payment for overtime shall be for the actual number of hours authorized and worked, except as provided for in Section 10 of this article.
10.	caiHn Pay
Any employee who is called in and reports for work before or after the employee's regular day of work shall be guaranteed a minimum of three (3) hours of overtime work to be compensated as provided for in this Article; except that employees whose basic work week is thirty-five (35) hours shall be compensated at the regular hourly rate when called in for any hours of work up to and including forty (40) hours in any basic work week. Hours of work in excess of forty (40) hours in any basic work week shall be compensated as provided for in this Article. This guarantee shall not apply to work which runs into or immediately follows a normal work day or shift, or to more than one call-in during any eight (8) hour period.
This guarantee shall also apply to a call-in on an employee's day of rest, or on a holiday enumerated in Article XIV Section 3.a when said employee is not scheduled to work.
ARTICLE XII - Overtime for Registered Nurses, Practical Nurses, Nurse's Aides, Mental Health Workers, Food Service Employees and BCI
The provisions of this article shall apply to registered nurses, practical nurses, nurse's aides, mental health workers and food service employees assigned to or working in the Department of Hospitals and the Department of Mental Health, and all employees in the BCI and Communications Division in the Sheriff's Department, except for clerical personnel and radio operators.
1.	Required and authorized hours of work in excess of eight (8) hours on any one day, or In excess of eighty (80) hours but not over ninety-six (96) hours in a basic work period, shall be compensated at the rate of one and one half (1 1/2) times the regular hourly rate of the employee concerned.
2.	Required and authorized hours of work in excess of ninety-six (96) hours in any basic work ’ period shall be compensated at the rate of two (2) times the regular hourly rate of the employee concerned.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
12
3.	It is agreed and understood that the provisions of Sections 1 and/or 2 shall not be construed under any circumstances as establishing a basis for duplicate, concurrent or overlapping claims of overtime for the same hours of work.
article xiii - stand-BY Time
1.	Any employee required by the appointing authority to restrict the employee's personal movements so that the employee may be reached and be available to report for a work assignment within thirty (30) minutes on an assigned day of rest, or at any time other than during the employee's regular working hours, shall be considered to be on stand-by time.
2.	Any employee on stand-by time shall be paid one (1) hour of the employee's regular hourly rate for up to eight (8) hours of stand-by time on any one (1) day, not to exceed two (2) hours of such compensation on regular days of work or three (3) hours of such compensation on any other day.
3.	Stand-by time shall not be included in determining the total number of hours worked in any basic work week.
ARTICLE XIV - L<?<w.e .with. Pay
1.	A full-time or part-time employee shall not earn or accrue vacation and/or sick leave credits during any pay period such employee is on leave of absence without pay, or on educational leave with pay, for one-half (1/2) or more of the payroll period of the position as established or subdivided.
2... All leave credits, including personal leave, as provided for in Article XIV Subsection 7.d,
accumulated or earned by an employee as of the close of business December 31 of any year, shall be carried over to the employee's credit as of the start of business' January 1 of the subsequent year.
3.	Holidays
a.	All legal holidays enumerated herein shall be allowed as days off with pay. The days prescribed by law for the observance of New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday, Lincoln's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Thanksgiving Friday, and Christmas Day shall be observed as legal holidays. When any such holiday falls on a Saturday, employees shall be credited with an extra day of vacation. When any such holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as a holiday.
b.	1) Whenever a holiday falls on a day of rest for any employee whose days of rest are other than Saturday and Sunday, that employee shall be credited with an extra day of vacation.
2)	If an employee is required to work on a holiday set forth in 3.a above, in lieu of holiday pay, such employee shall be paid at time and one half the employee's hourly rate of pay for hours worked, and shall receive a credit of an additional vacation day or part thereof as appropriate to such employee's normal working hours.
3)	Employees in the Department of Hospitals, the Department of Mental Health the Rockland County Sewer District and the Department of General Services,
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
13
which are operated on a seven-day-a-week basis, shall celebrate the holidays of Christmas and New Year's Day on the actual calendar day on which the holidays fall. This shall include but not be limited to the following units: Nursing, Security, Housekeeping, Laundry, Dietary, Activities, Jail Health Services.
c.	Any employee who is scheduled to work on a holiday and who is absent without call on said holiday shall not be paid for said holiday.
d.	Nothing contained herein shall be construed as preventing the Employer from granting employees such additional days off with pay from time to time as may be duly authorized by the Employer.
4.	Vacation
An annual vacation with pay will be granted to each employee as hereinafter provided.
a.	All employees shall accrue vacation credits at the rate of one half (1/2) day per biweekly payroll period, except that new County employees shall not accrue vacation credits until they shall have completed six (6) full bi-weekly payroll periods.
b.	Additional vacation credits for length of service shall be granted each employee annually on the employee's anniversary date in accordance with the following schedule; provided however, that no employee shall receive less vacation credits for completed years of continuous service than earned or accumulated in 1970.
In computing longevity for vacation credits, an employee's length of service shall be computed from the date of the employee's original appointment in County service to any duly established position whether on a permanent, provisional or temporary basis, provided that the employee's service with the County has been continuous. For the purpose of computing the continuity of service, an authorized leave of absence without pay or a break in service not exceeding one (1) year, followed by reinstatement or rehire into the County service, shall not affect the anniversary day of any employee.
Completed Years of Continuous Service	Additional Vacation Credits	Completed Years of Continuous Service	Additional Vacation Credits
2	1 Working Day	13-15	7 Working Days
3	2 Working Days	16-18	8 Working Days
4-5	3 Working Days	19-20	9 Working Days
6-7	4 Working Days	21-22	10 Working Days
8-9	5 Working Days	23-24	11 Working Days
10-12	6 Working Days	25 and over	12 Working Days
c.	The time at which vacation may be drawn by an employee shall be subject to prior approval by the appointing authority. The request of an employee with respect to such time shall be honored by the appointing authority to the fullest extent possible consistent with the effective conduct of the County's business and with the relative seniority of employees in the department. Normally, vacation will be taken annually and for the total amount of accumulated credits. However, an employee may, with the prior approval of the appointing authority, utilize the vacation credits in such lesser amounts and at such times as may be jointly agreed to by the employee and the employee's appointing authority. In the event the employee is unable to utilize vacation credits because of the Employer's decision, the employee shall be secured from the loss of vacation credits.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
14
d.	When a holiday enumerated in Section 3a of this article falls on a scheduled day of vacation of an employee, such employee will not be charged a day of vacation for said holiday.
e.	No vacation credits may be accumulated beyond a maximum of fifty (50) days, except that such total accumulation shall be exclusive of any holiday credits earned in accordance with Article XIV Subsection 3-a, b & c. It shall be the responsibility of the appointing authority to notify the employee when that employee has accumulated vacation credits equal to the maximum less five (5) vacation credit days. Failure to notify an employee individually and in writing regarding the maximum accumulation of vacation credits shall preclude the cancellation of such excess credits. No cancellation shall be made until the employee has been properly notified and ten (10) full biweekly payroll periods have elapsed following such notification.
f.	Insofar as practicable, accumulated vacation credits shall be used prior to transfer. If that is not possible, the County agency, department or Institution to which an employee is transferred shall credit the employee for all vacation credits accumulated prior to transfer. It shall be the responsibility of the appointing authority releasing the employee to inform the employee and appointing authority gaining the employee by written notification of the amount of accumulated credits, if any, due such employee.
g.	In the event of the separation of an employee from County service by transfer, resignation, retirement or death, accumulated vacation credits shall be compensated for by cash payment to the employee or to the employee's beneficiary or estate, as the case may be, up to the maximum accumulation permitted. No compensation for accumulated vacation credit shall be paid an employee discharged for cause.
5.	Sick Leave
a.	On and after the effective date of this Agreement, an employee shall earn sick leave credits at the rate of one half (1/2) working day per bi-weekly payroll period, to be credited on the last day of each payroll period.
b.	Sick leave shall be authorized in the event of the illness or other physical disability of the employee up to the full extent of accumulated sick leave credits. Included within the term disability is the child bearing stage of pregnancy.
1)	The Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission recognizes three (3) stages in pregnancy for determining when a pregnant employee is disabled. They are the dormant, child bearing and child rearing stages. Job disability Is associated only with the child bearing stage and requires a certification of a duly licensed physician, stating that the employee is unable to continue to perform any of the normal and usual duties and responsibilities of her position. The determination that a job disability no longer exists also requires a certification of a duly licensed physician.
c.	In the event of illness or disability of a member of the employee's immediate family (parent, sibling, spouse or child) which circumstance requires the employee's presence, sick leave shall be authorized up to a maximum of fifteen (15) days in any one (1) calendar year or up to the amount of the employee's accumulated credits, whichever is less.
d.	Unused sick leave credits may be accumulated up to a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) working days. Sick leave credits may be used in hour units or any multiple thereof. Notwithstanding the above, all Employees with thirty (30) or more
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
15
e.
f.
years of service may accumulate unused sick leave credits for a maximum of two hundred (200) working days.
The employee is responsible for notifying the employee's supervisor or the appointing authority each time sick leave is to be taken and the reason therefor. Advance notification shall be given whenever possible, no later than one half (1/2) hour after the employee's normal time for reporting to work. However, In the event that the work of the employee is such that a substitute would be required, the appointing authority may require earlier notification whenever possible but not more than two (2) hours prior to the beginning of the employee's work day.
At the discretion of the appointing authority, such proof of illness or disability may be required as the appointing authority may deem necessary. Upon absences of more than three (3) consecutive working days because of illness or disability, or if a pattern of abuse is apparent, the appointing authority may require that a doctor's certificate be furnished substantiating the employee's claim of Illness or disability. The appointing authority may also require the employee to be examined at the expense of the Employer by a physician designated by the appointing authority.
Failure to provide proper notification, failure to submit such proof of illness or disability as may be required, unsatisfactory evidence of illness or evidence indicating that the physical condition of the employee was not such as to justify absence from work, or any other abuse of sick leave may be cause for disciplinary action at the discretion of the appointing authority.
The parties to this Agreement recognize and accept the principle that abuse of sick leave cannot be tolerated and further recognize and accept the fact that an employee who has rendered faithful and efficient service should not be unduly penalized for absences due to factors of health not within the employee's control. It is the stated agreement between the parties that they will cooperate to avoid any practice or practices which constitute an abuse of sick leave.
The appointing authority may require employees who have been on sick leave, prior to and as a condition of their return to work, to be examined, at the expense of the Employer, by a physician designated by the appointing authority to establish that the employees are able to perform their normal duties and that their return to work will not jeopardize their own health and safety or the health and safety of other employees.
When an employee is transferred within the County service the employee's accumulated sick leave credits shall be transferred with the employee. The releasing appointing authority is responsible for notifying, in writing, the gaining appointing authority and the employee of the amount of such transferred credits.
Unused accumulated sick leave credits shall not be compensated for in the event of the separation of an employee from County service. Any employee returning to County service in a permanent position within one (1) year of the employee's termination shall be recredited with sick leave credits, which were cancelled at the time of the employee's separation from County service.
Notwithstanding the above, all employees who separate from the County with 15 or more years of service (except those dismissed for cause) shall be compensated for all unused accumulated sick leave days over 165 at half (1/2) the employee's regular daily rate of pay. All employees who separate from the County with 20 or more years of service (except those dismissed for cause) shall be compensated for all unused sick
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Ci.doc
16
leave days over 165 at the employee's regular daily rate of pay. All employees who separate from the County with thirty (30) or more years of service (except those dismissed for cause) shall be compensated for all unused accumulated sick leave days over one hundred and sixty five (165) at the employee's regular daily rate of pay.
m. A sick leave bank (SLB) shall be established to provide income protection to participants whose accumulated leave has been exhausted as a result of catastrophic long term illness or catastrophic injury. (See Appendix C)
6.	Extended SLck-Leavs
a.	The Employer may grant an extension of sick leave with pay to any permanent employee who has exhausted all the employee's sick leave, vacation and overtime credits, provided, however that compensation for such extended sick leave be at one half (1/2) the normal salary of such employee and that any such extension not exceed the rate of eleven (11) working days for each completed year of continuous County service. For the purpose of this section, a leave of absence without pay, except for Military Leave, in excess of three (3) months shall not be included in determining continuous service.
b.	An employee desiring extended sick leave under this provision shall request same in writing through the appointing authority. The appointing authority shall forward any such request to the Employer together with a recommendation.
7.	personal Leave
Personal leave is leave with pay for personal business, including religious observances, which for compelling reasons require the employee to absent himself/herself from work. Such leave will not be charged against other leave credits. Personal leave credits may not be used in place of or to extend vacation.
a.	On the effective date of this Agreement and on each subsequent anniversary date thereof, each employee shall be credited with four (4) days of personal leave, except as herein otherwise provided.
b.	Employees who enter or re-enter County service after the effective date of this Agreement shall be credited with one (1) day of personal leave for each full quarter remaining in that calendar year, provided, however, that the total personal leave credits of any employee re-entering County service shall not exceed four (4) days in any calendar year.
c.	Personal leave may be drawn only upon written request whenever possible and at a time convenient to and approved in advance by the appointing authority; provided however, that personal leave allowed for religious observance shall be granted on the days and hours required, insofar as the same may be granted without interference with the proper conduct of government functions.
d)	Personal leave credits may be used in hour units or any multiple thereof. Personal leave credits are not cumulative. However, any unused personal leave credits at the end of the calendar year shall be transferred and credited to the employee's accumulated sick leave as provided in Article XIV, Section 5.d. Unused personal leave credits shall not be compensated for in event of the separation of an employee from County service. However, when an employee is transferred within County service, the employee's unused personal leave credits shall be transferred with the employee.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
17
8* Leave for Court and Jury Attendance
a.	On proof of the necessity of jury service or appearance as a witness pursuant to subpoena or other order of a court or body, an employee shall be granted a leave of absence with pay with no charge against leave credits; provided however, that this section shall not apply to any absence by an employee occasioned by such an appearance if the employee is party to an action.
b.	If an employee is called for jury duty during a twenty-four hour period in which the employee is scheduled to work and the employee is required to serve, that employee will receive the benefit in section a. above.
c.	Sub-sections a. and b. above shall not apply to Town and Village Justice Courts unless jury duty therein coincides with the employee's scheduled hours of work.
9.	Leave for Civil Service Examination
Upon due notice and presentation of an admission slip for the examination to the employee's appointing authority, an employee shall be given leave with pay to take any Rockland County Civil Service examination.
10.	Military Leave and Other Leave Required bv Law
The appointing authority shall grant any leave of absence with pay required by law.
11.	Educational Leave
a.	An employee who Is required by the Employer to complete a specific training course or educational program shall be granted a leave of absence with full pay for the duration of such course or program.
b.	The Employer may grant educational leave with pay to an employee upon the request and recommendation of the appointing authority. The rate of pay shall be determined by the Employer, but in no event shall exceed the normal annual salary of the employee. Such leave shall not exceed two (2) years in duration and shall not exceed two (2) years during any five (5) years of County service.
12.	Wage Continuation Plan - Work Related
a.	An employee who is determined by the employee's appointing authority to be unable to perform the usual and normal duties of the employee's employment because of occupational injury or disease as defined in the Worker's Compensation Law, and as a result thereof is necessarily absent from work, and files a claim therefore with the Worker's Compensation Board, shall after a waiting period often (10) working days be allowed leave from the employee's position with full pay for any period of absence not to exceed sixty-five (65) working days within six (6) months from the date of such disablement as determined by the Worker's Compensation Board. Such leave may be extended in the discretion of the Employer up to an additional sixty-five (65) working days within nine (9) months from the date of the disablement as determined by the Worker's Compensation Board.
b.	Worker's Compensation benefits for wage or salary compensation to which the employee is or may be entitled for any period for which the employee is receiving or has received pay from the Employer under the provision of this section shall be
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
18
assigned by the Employee to the Employer as reimbursement for wages paid. An employee who receives a check for such compensation benefits from the Worker's Compensation Insurance Company for any period for which the employee is entitled to benefits from the Employer under the provisions of this section shall within five (5) days thereafter convey said check to the Employer after duly endorsing same, or shall reimburse the Employer for the amount of said check. Receipt and deposit by an employee of such Worker's Compensation benefits without reimbursement to the Employer as provided for herein shall be deemed to be a waiver by such employee of the benefits provided for in this section, and the Employer may take whatever action it considers necessary to recover payments it has made to the employee under the provisions of this section.
c.	Before granting leave with pay pursuant to the provision of this section, the appointing authority may require such proof of the employee's inability to perform the usual and normal duties of the employee's employment as it may deem necessary.
d.	If the employee's claim for benefits under the Worker's Compensation Law is controverted by the Worker's Compensation Insurance Company the employee shall not be entitled to leave under this section. If final determination of the controverted claim is in favor of the employee, the employee shall be entitled to receive the benefits of this section as if such claim had never been controverted.
e.	Leave under this section may be withheld or terminated if the appointing authority determines that the occupational injury or disease suffered by the employee is of such a nature as to permanently incapacitate the employee from performing the duties of the employee's position.
f.	An employee who receives full pay for any period of leave under this section shall earn vacation, personal and sick leave credits during such period.
g.	Upon request of the employee to resume the employee's employment at or prior to the expiration of the maximum period of allowed leave, the appointing authority may require the employee to undergo medical examination by a physician designated by the appointing authority and at the expense of the Employer before the employee may be permitted to resume the employee's employment in order to establish that such employee is physically and mentally able to perform the usual and normal duties of the employee's employment without jeopardizing the health and safety of other employees as well as the employee.
h.	In order to enable the appointing authority to make such determinations as are authorized or required under this section, the appointing authority may require an employee at any time to be examined by a physician designated by the appointing authority at the Employer's expense.
i.	This section shall not be construed to require extension of any employment beyond the time at which it would otherwise terminate.
j.	An employee who is receiving benefits under this section may be required, as a condition of the granting or continuing of such benefits, to perform full or part-time duties other than those normally required by the employee's position to the extent that the employee is physically capable of performing such other duties.
C:\My Oocuments\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
19
13.	Bereavement Leave
a.	An employee shall be allowed a maximum of three (3) working days bereavement leave in the event of a death within the employee's immediate family. For the purpose of this Article, immediate family is defined as: spouse, parents, step-parents, parents of spouse, grandparents, grandchildren, siblings, children, step-children and spouses of children.
b.	An employee shall be allowed a maximum of one (1) working day bereavement leave in the event of the death of the grandparent of spouse, step-parent of spouse, or brother/sister-in-law.
ARTICLE XV - Leave Without Pay
1.	General
The appointing authority, upon the written request of the employee, may grant a leave of absence without pay to such employee not to exceed one (1) year. Such leave must be for a specific period of time; however, the employee and the appointing authority may mutually agree to terminate such leave prior to its expiration.
2.	Maternity Leave
A pregnant employee holding a position by permanent appointment, upon written request, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for any period of time not exceeding six (6) months, which may be extended by the appointing authority provided that the total leave granted shall not exceed one (1) year.
3.	Child Rearing Leave
An employee holding a position by permanent appointment upon written request, which shall be made at least sixty (60) days prior to the commencement of the leave, shall be granted a leave without pay for child rearing purposes for a period of time not to exceed six (6) months. Such leave shall be for the purpose of caring for a newly born or newly adopted infant and may be extended by the appointing authority for an additional six (6) months.
4.	Eligible employees shall receive the benefits provided by the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA). Pursuant to Article XIV, Section 6, employees may request extended sick leave.
5.	When a permanent County employee accepts a permanent appointment to a position within County service, in which the employee is required to serve a probationary term, the position thus vacated by the employee shall not be filled except on a temporary or contingent permanent basis during such probationary term. At any time during the probationary term, the employee shall have the right to return to the employee's previous position at the employee's own election.
ARTICLE XVI - Medical, Surgical and Hospitalization Insurance, and Other Benefits
1.	The Employer agrees to pay 100% of the premium or cost for the eligible individual employee and dependents, except as modified in Sections 7, 8, and 9 of this Article, for coverage under a core plus medical and psychiatric enhancements as described in the New York State Insurance Plan.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
20
2.	At any time, upon ninety (90) days notice to the President of the Rockland County Unit, CSEA, the Employer may elect to provide the same benefits provided by the core plan with medical and psychiatric enhancements through an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of New York, provided that:
a.	The benefits will be the same in all respects;
b.	Prescription drug coverage will be the same;
c.	Geographic areas of acceptability will be the same;
d.	The participating providers shall be provided whenever and wherever possible; it is
recognized that the Employer cannot guarantee that each and every participating physician will be identical. The Employer will use its best efforts to provide an equal number of participating physicians in the same medical specialties.
In the event the Employer elects to provide such plan through an insurance company, the Employer (a) will continue to pay 100% of the premium for the Individual employee and dependents and (b) such plan will not become effective until at least ninety (90) days after delivery of notice to the President of the Rockland County Unit, CSEA.
Any dispute concerning whether (a) benefits are the same, (b) geographic areas of acceptability are the same or, (c) the number or specialty of participating physicians are sufficient shall be resolved by expedited, binding arbitration pursuant to the Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association.
3.	To the extent available, an HMO option will be offered to employees and dependents at a cost no greater than otherwise provided herein.
4.	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, any issues arising from individual claims by participants are not to be resolved through arbitration. Such issues are to be resolved through the appeals mechanism provided within the Health Benefits Plan.
5.	Dental Plan
a.	The Employer agrees to provide a Dental Plan covering the individual employee only for the life of this Agreement.
b.	The Employer agrees to provide family dental benefits through Delta Dental for eligible family members. The family dental plan shall commence after the ratification of this Agreement by both parties. Without a successor agreement on or after January 1, 2005, the Employer assumes no obligation to fund any costs over and above the County's obligation for family coverage in effect as of December 31, 2004.
6.	Vision Plan
Effective January 1, 2002, the Employer agrees to pay the full premium for all members of the bargaining unit in the CSEA Employee Benefit Fund Composite (Family) Platinum 12 Vision Plan, including Progressive vision lenses. In no event will the premiums for such benefit exceed the amounts set forth in the rate sheet dated May 18, 2001 entitled "Vision Rates 7/1/01 to 6/30/05 - Rockland County" which rate sheet shall become a part of this contract as Appendix E.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
21
7.	The Employer agrees to pay a percentage of health, optical and dental insurance premiums for a part-time employee in the proportion that such part-time employee's position as established or subdivided, bears to the basic work week or work period of full-time positions In that title or category, subject to any limitations imposed by the Manual of Procedures for Participating Subdivisions, New York State Government Employees' Health Insurance Program. Further, that this limitation shall apply only to such employees appointed on or after 1.1.80.
8.	Contribution for New Hires:
a.	Employees hired between January 1, 1994 and April 8, 1996 shall contribute on a flat fee basis the dollar equivalent of the following percentage of the state net COBRA rate in effect on January 1, 1994 for 130 payments (equivalent to a period of five years) from their eligibility for medical benefits, after which contributions shall not be required.
Family Plan Coverage:	12%
Individual Plan Coverage: 10%
b.	Employees hired between April 9, 1996 and December 31, 1997 shall contribute on a flat fee basis the dollar equivalent of the following percentage of the state net COBRA rate in effect on January 1, 1996 for 260 payments (equivalent to a period of ten years) from their eligibility for medical benefits, after which contributions shall not be required.
Family Plan Coverage:	14%
Individual Plan Coverage: 12%
d.	Employees hired between January 1, 1998 and December 31, 1999 shall contribute on a flat fee basis the dollar equivalent of the following percentage of the state net COBRA rate in effect on January 1, 1998 for 312 payments (equivalent to a period of twelve years) from their eligibility for medical benefits, after which contributions shall not be required.
Family Plan Coverage:	16%
Individual Plan Coverage: 14%
Notwithstanding the above, employees hired on or after January 1, 2000 shall contribute for 390 payments (a period equivalent to 15 years) from their eligibility for medical benefits, after which contributions shall not be required.
9.	Employees as of December 31. 1993: All full-time unit employees employed by the County and on payroll on December 31, 1993 shall not be required to contribute toward their medical benefits for the duration of their unit employment with the County.
10.	Lao for New Hires: Effective January 1, 1994 all new hires shall become eligible for medical benefits after completing three months of service.
ARTICLE XVII - Participation in the New York State Retirement System
1.	The Employer agrees that it will continue the non-contributory retirement plan, as contained in Section 75-i of the Retirement and Social Security Law.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVILSVO\CSEACCl.doc
22
2.	The Employer agrees to continue to adopt the following options provided by the Retirement and Social Security Law if still available.
a.	Application of unused Sick Leave credits upon retirement. (Section 41-j)
b.	Service allowances for Military Service in World War II. (Section 41-k)
c.	Transfer of Service from another system. (Section 43-g)
d.	Credit for other Military Service as provided in Section 243 (4) of the Military Law.
e.	Guaranteed ordinary death benefits (Section 60-b)
article xviii - Grievance and-Disci Blinary Procedure
The Grievance Procedure as contained in Appendix A is hereby adopted and made an integral part of this Agreement.
article xix - DflflniU.onff.oJ-Terms_as Used In.Thfe. Agreement
I.	Anniversary Date - the annual anniversary of an employee's date of first hire in continuous County service; except that employment as a Student Employee shall not be included in such computation or determination. This provision shall not apply to any employee in the appropriate negotiating unit as of December 31, 1974.
2.	Continuous Service - continuous employment from the date of first hire in County service where there has been no break of service in excess of one (1) year, except authorized leave of absence; except that employment as a Student Employee shall not be included In such computation or determination. This provision shall not apply to any employee in the appropriate negotiating unit as of December 31, 1974.
3.	Dav of Rest - either one (1) of two (2) scheduled consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods during which the employee is not regularly required to work.
4.	Employee - one whose position or job has been determined to be within the negotiating unit.
a. A part-time employee is one whose work Is less than the basic work week for the class of position in the department, institution, office or agency concerned.
5.	Grievance - any alleged violation, misinterpretation, or inequitable application of this Agreement.
6.	Leave - authorized absence of an employee from the employee's work during the employee's normal working hours.
7.	Promotion - Promotion is a movement to another position which requires substantially the same basic knowledge and/or abilities as the former position but which involves greater responsibilities and/or skill, is allocated to a higher salary grade and requires additional educational and/or experience qualifications within the same general field of requirements.
8.	Representative - One designated by the employee or a group of employees in the case of group grievances to act in the employee's or their behalf in the processing of a grievance.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
23
9.	Unclassified, classified, exempt, competitive, non-competitive, labor, permanent, provisional, temporary, transfer, demotion and reclassification - Are used and defined as they are used and defined in the New York State Civil Service Law and the Rockland County Civil Service Rules.
10.	Appointing Authority - a public officer having the power to appoint or employ all subordinates and employees in the appointing authority's respective office, agency or department.
11.	Emergency - events or circumstances beyond the control of the Employer such as an Act of God, riot, flood, civil disorder or any other similar act.
12.	Seniority - length of continuous service (as herein defined) for the purpose of determining selection of employees for overtime work or work at hours other than the regular working hours among those employees determined by the appointing authority to have the skills and abilities for the work to be performed.
ARTICLE XX - General Provisions
1.	Bulletin Boards
a.	A bulletin board, or a reasonable portion of existing bulletin boards, will be made available for employees and the Union's use whenever it is possible and practical to do so. Bulletin boards which serve the general public shall not be used by an employee or the Union.
b.	Designation of a bulletin board for use by an employee or the Union shall be made by the appointing authority concerned.
c.	Any bulletin board so designated shall not be used for personal business or political activity. Any material posted must be dated and removed after thirty (30) days. The Union assumes responsibility for maintaining designated bulletin boards in a neat and orderly manner. However, the Employer reserves the right to remove any material which, in its judgment, does not conform to the requirements of this section.
2.	Working Environment
a.	The Employer agrees to maintain a working environment that reasonably serves the comfort, well being and safety of its employees. Wherever practical and possible within the physical limitation imposed by a location, the Employer will endeavor to maintain adequate rest area facilities.
b.	Where the appointing authority, or the appointing authority's designee, considers the working environment to be unreasonable at a particular location because of unusual or abnormal conditions, and where affected employees are not reassigned to other locations, such affected employees may be relieved of their normal duties during the continuation of such conditions. Such leave with pay shall not be charged against any other leave credits.
c.	An employee who is given an order by the employee's supervisor is required to obey that order even if the employee believes that order is in violation of this Agreement or beyond the authority of the supervisor, provided however, that the employee will not be guilty of insubordination in disobeying such order, if in fact, compliance with the order will expose the employee to a substantial and imminent threat to the employee's
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
24
health or safety and If the employee brings that fact to the attention of the supervisor at the time the order is disobeyed.
3.	Uniforms
a.	The Employer shall furnish uniforms to the following groups of employees:
1)	Maintenance personnel
2)	Rockland County Sewer District #1 Operating Employees
3)	Field Service personnel
4)	Security personnel
5)	Food Service personnel
6)	Nurses - up to three uniforms (including up to two pairs of shoes) per year, as required.
7)	Nurse's Aides
8)	Practical Nurses
b.	Uniforms must be worn unless excused for medical reasons.
4.	Mileage Allowance
The mileage allowance in lieu of actual and necessary expenses whenever use of personal vehicles on County business is authorized by the Employer shall be that allowed by the Internal Revenue Service either by rule, regulation or code.
5.	Printing and Distribution of the Agreement
The Union, at its own cost, shall be responsible for reproducing the negotiated contract for the purpose of distribution to all employees in the negotiating unit.
6.	Time Records
Daily time records showing actual time worked by an employee, and all leave credits earned, accumulated and taken shall be maintained by each appointing authority on a form approved by the Department of Personnel. In any location(s) where leave information is not provided on the employee paycheck stub, the employee shall be provided a summary of all expended, earned and accumulated leave credits as of the end of each calendar quarter.
7.	Rest Period
Employees shall be entitled to one (1) fifteen (15) minute rest period for each three and one half (3 ’/a) or four (4) hours respectively for a thirty-five (35) hour week and a forty (40) hour week during the regular work day.
8.	Meals/Meal Allowance
a.	Effective January 1, 2000 employees shall be furnished meals or a meal allowance of $6.00 after each four (4) consecutive hours of overtime work under conditions established by the appointing authority for the life of the Agreement.
b.	Meals shall be furnished to Registered Nurses and Mental Health Aides employed at the in-patient unit of the Department of Mental Health when such employees are required, as part of their duties, to eat with patients.
c.	Nurses at the Jail shall be furnished with meals.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
25
9.	Communications
All written communications from the Union to the Employer shall be addressed to:
County Attorney
County of Rockland
11 New Hempstead Road
New City, New York 10956
All written communications from the Employer to the Union shall be addressed to:
President
Rockland County Unit, C.S.E.A
120 North Main Street
New City, New York 10956
10.	SnoviEjriei^ncy
If as a result of a snow emergency declared by the Sheriff or County Executive, County agencies are closed, employees required to work on such days shall receive compensatory time off or have an equivalent amount of time added to their vacations, at the option of the employee concerned.
11.	Reclassification
The Union shall be notified of any position reclassification. However it is agreed and understood that the matter of reclassification shall not be considered the proper subject of a grievance to be processed through the grievance procedure of this Agreement; that appeals on such matters shall be through procedures established by law or rules and regulations having the force and effect of law.
12.	The County Department of Personnel and the Union shall develop a process whereby County employees will be provided information about County employment opportunities in the Labor and Non-Competitive classes. Such process shall be completed by December 31, 1996.
13.	Clean-Up Period
A period of clean-up time shall be granted to all employees engaged in laboring, maintenance, construction or outdoor work.
14.	Paychecks
The County will make every effort to issue paychecks on the Thursday before payday (after 3:00 p.m.) to employees who are off on Friday as a day of rest and to employees who are scheduled to work evening and night shifts.
15.	The Employer shall apprise all employees of their rights and benefits in writing, and shall explain how and where to enroll for each benefit. The Employer shall make available for inspection by the President of Rockland County Unit CSEA, Inc., or the President's designee, the names and location of every new employee at the County Personnel Office.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc 26
16.	Tuition ReimbursemenLBene.fit
In recognition of the desire of the County to provide for the advancement and improvement in the abilities and skills of its employees, a tuition reimbursement program is established as follows:
a.	Tuition Reimbursement Benefit:
Each qualifying employee shall be eligible to receive reimbursement of college tuition fees up to a maximum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per annum.
b.	Qualifying College Course:
1)	Courses taken at an accredited institution of higher learning which clearly improve present job skills and/or would provide the employee with knowledge or skills necessary for another position within the bargaining unit are eligible. This shall also include courses offered by other institutions certified or licensed by the New York State Department of Education that, similarly, improve job related skills, e.g., courses offered by BOCES that improve or add skills relevant to current occupation or for promotions within a field of promotion.
2)	Applicants wishing pre-approval of the courses that they intend to take must submit catalogue description of same to the County Department of Personnel at least three (3) weeks before the commencement of classes.
3)	The County retains the ultimate right to determine whether or not specific courses meet eligibility requirements.
c.	Payment Reimbursement:
1)	Payment reimbursement will be made subsequent to submission of official transcripts to the County Department of Personnel showing successful course completion(s).
2)	Applications for reimbursement must be submitted within six (6) months of course completion.
17.	Nursing Practices Committee
A Nursing Practices Committee shall be formed consisting of four (4) members, two (2) of whom shall be appointed by the Union and two (2) appointed by the Commissioner of Hospitals or the Commissioner's designee, to deal with nursing practices and patient care.
The Committee shall be advisory only and Its members shall serve without salary.
18.	Personnel Files
a.	An employee shall have an opportunity to review the employee's personnel file, maintained at the employee's place of employment, in the presence of the appointing authority or the appointing authority's designee upon five (5) days notice and to place in such file a written response of reasonable length to anything contained therein which such employee deems to be adverse.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
27
Notwithstanding any of the above, pre-employment material shall be privileged and not be made available to such employee.
b.	Letters, memoranda and evaluations alleging incompetence or misconduct shall not be placed in an employee's personnel file until the employee has been given a copy of such material. The employee must sign acknowledging receipt of such material and such receipt will also be placed in the file. It is understood and agreed that signature by the employee does not signify agreement with such material. Should the employee refuse to sign it, it shall be so noted on the material which shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of this section.
c.	Adverse material or information dealing with relatively minor acts of misconduct or incompetence (for example: tardiness) shall be removed from the personnel file six (6) months after the date of the occurrence, unless such misconduct or incompetence is repetitive and is not responsive to supervisory warnings.
d.	Adverse material or information dealing with relatively serious acts or incidence of misconduct or incompetence shall be removed from the personnel file three (3) years after the date of occurrence. For example: insubordination or dereliction of duty.
Except that the following shall not be removed from the personnel file:
1)	Determination of guilt as a result of disciplinary proceedings;
2)	Letters of Reprimand as provided by Article V, Section 2.h. However, such Letters of Reprimand shall be removed from the personnel file after five (5) years from the date of occurrence.
3)	Performance or other evaluations.
19.	Travel Time
a.	Effective January 1, 2000, for mandated training and/or County business conducted outside Rockland County, which by virtue of its schedule or location requires automobile travel outside their normal hours of work, unit employees may be compensated for any travel time that exceeds their normal hours of work.
b.	Time shall be calculated at the rate of one hour per 60 miles based on the mileage chart in Appendix D, which may be amended to include additional locations. The mileage shall be measured from the employee's normal work site to the temporary work/training location.
c.	Voluntary training will not be covered by this provision.
d.	Compensation shall be in conformance with Article XI of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXI - Reduction in Force
Any reduction in work force affecting non-competitive and labor class employees shall be in the inverse order of seniority among those employees affected in accordance with the following:
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
28
1.
Seniority
a.	Seniority for the purposes of this Article shall start on the date of the employee's original appointment on a permanent basis in County service, subject to the provisions of Sections 85 and 86 of the Civil Service Law, except that an appointment to an encumbered established position on a technically temporary basis shall be considered permanent for the purposes of this Article.
b.	A break in service of more than one (1) year shall constitute a break in seniority.
2.	Bumping
a.	A displaced non-competitive or labor class employee may bump an employee in the same title countywide who has less seniority as defined In Section l.a above.
b.	Any employee who has bumping rights as set forth in Section l.a above shall have the right to exercise such right or accept layoff.
c.	The least senior employee or employees who remain unplaced after the exercise of bumping rights in the case of a reduction in force shall be laid off, unless such employee or employees are eligible for retreat rights as detailed below.
d.	Employees who are laid off through bumping shall be eligible for recall.
. 3. Retreat
a.	A permanent employee displaced by a reduction in force, as provided in this Article, may retreat within the same Department to a position in a title in the same or a lower grade in which said employee last served on permanent basis immediately prior to service in the title from which displaced, provided that such position is authorized and vacant, or encumbered by an employee with less seniority.
b.	The least senior employee who remains unplaced after retreat rights have been exercised shall be laid off.
ARTICLE XXII - Recall
1.	a. Non-competitive or labor class employees who are laid off under the bumping provisions of Article XXI shall be eligible for recall in the title from which bumped.
b. Recall rights shall be for eighteen (18) months from the date of layoff. Individuals shall be recalled on the basis of seniority as defined in Article XXI and provided such individual can meet the qualifications and perform the duties of the job without a trial.
2.	a. Non-competitive and labor class employees who have exercised retreat rights under the provisions of Article XXI shall be eligible for recall to the original title within the same department from which said employee retreated.
b. Recall rights shall be for eighteen (18) months from the date of retreat. Employees shall be recalled on the basis of seniority as defined in Article XXI and provided such employee can meet the qualifications and perform the duties of the job without a trial.
3.	The Employer shall notify an employee being recalled of the vacancy to be filled by certified mail return receipt requested at the employee's last known address. Unless the Employer
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
29
receives from such employee being recalled, ah acceptance In writing within seven (7) business days of the date of mailing of the recall notice, such employee shall no longer be eligible for recall.
ARTICLE XXIII	- Effective Date and Duration of this Agreement
This Agreement shall become effective on January 1, 2002 and expire on December 31, 2005.
ARTICLE XXIV	- Necessity for Approval bv the Appropriate Legislative Body
IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 204-a OF THE CIVIL SERVICE LAW, "IT IS AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES THAT ANY PROVISION OF THIS AGREEMENT REQUIRING LEGISLATIVE ACTION TO PERMIT ITS IMPLEMENTATION BY AMENDMENT OF LAW OR BY PROVIDING THE ADDITIONAL FUNDS THEREFOR, SHALL NOT BECOME EFFECTIVE UNTIL THE APPROPRIATE LEGISLATIVE BODY HAS GIVEN APPROVAL."
ARTICLE XXV	- Beiro^gtivity
Unless otherwise indicated the parties agree that the provisions of this Agreement shall be retroactive to January 1, 2002.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be signed by their duly ’ authorized officers, and their corporate seals to be hereunto affixed this day of	13,
200j_.	7
COUNTY OF ROCKLAND:
CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION, INC., LOCAL 1000, AFSCME, AFL/CIO FOR THE ROCKLAND COUNTY UNIT OF ROCKLAND COUNTY LOCAL 844
Clerk to the Legislature
WILLIAM RICCALDO First Vice President
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
30
ARTICLE XVIII - APPENDIX A
GRIEVANCE AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
It Is understood and agreed that all references to an "employee" shall mean that the "employee or the Union" shall have a right to file a grievance.
A.	BASIC STANDARDS AND PRINCIPLES
1.	Every employee (within the scope of this agreement) shall have the right to present the employee's grievance In accordance with the procedures prescribed herein, with or without a representative of the employee's own choosing, free from Interference, coercion, restraint, discrimination, or reprisal.
2.	It is a fundamental responsibility of supervisors at all levels, commensurate with the authority delegated to them by their superiors, promptly to consider and take appropriate action upon grievances presented to them by employees under their supervision. To such extent as is practicable, appropriate authority shall be delegated to such supervisors to enable them to carry out the purposes of this agreement.
3.	The appointing authority of each county department, office, institution, or agency shall be responsible for carrying out the provisions of this agreement with respect to grievances in their department, office, institution or agency.
4.	Grievances involving more than one (1) employee under one (1) appointing authority (group grievances) shall be referred to the lowest supervisory level common to all of the aggrieved. Such employees, if they so desire, shall have the right to be represented by a single representative of their own choosing.
5.	The informal resolution of differences prior to initiation of action under the formal grievance procedure is encouraged and shall be the rule rather than the exception.
B.	APPLICATION
1.	The provisions of this procedure shall apply to any alleged violation of this agreement.
2.	Anything to the contrary notwithstanding the procedure shall not apply to matters which are reviewable under administrative procedure established by law or pursuant to rules having the force and effect of law. Consequently, such items which include but are not necessarily limited to dismissals, demotions, suspensions, position classification, Civil Service examination and ratings thereof are not subject to review as grievances under this procedure.
C.	CONSIDERATION OF GRIEVANCES
1.	Employees, supervisors and appointing authorities are expected to exhaust every administrative device to settle amicably all differences of opinion. An employee must initiate action under this procedure within a reasonable length of time after the occurrence of the alleged grievance.
2.	In the interest of uniform procedure and to expedite handling, an employee shall present the employee's problem or grievance through regular supervisory channels in the following order:
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
31
a.	The First Stage - The Immediate Supervisor
The employee shall first request an Interview with the employee's immediate supervisor. The immediate supervisor shall within five (5) business days hold an informal discussion with the employee. To the extent the immediate supervisor's authority permits, the immediate supervisor shall make every attempt to arrive at an amicable settlement of the grievance. In any event a written determination shall be made and given to the employee within five (5) business days after the informal discussion. If the supervisor is unable to resolve the grievance to the employee's satisfaction or if the matter is beyond the authority of the Immediate supervisor, the immediate supervisor shall advise the employee to submit the employee's grievance in writing In accordance with the provisions of section (b) herein. The grievance statement shall be as brief as practicable and constitute a statement of fact as defined in Section H.
b.	The Second Stage - The Unit, Section or Division Head
If a grievance Is not satisfactorily settled at the first stage, the employee may within seven (7) business days of notice from the employee's immediate supervisor request a review by presenting said grievance in written form as a statement of fact to the unit, section or division head. The unit, section or division head shall meet with the employee and the employee's representative, if any, within seven (7) business days after receipt of the grievance. The review shall be informal and every attempt shall be made to reach an amicable settlement. In any event, the unit, section, or division head shall within seven (7) business days of the informal hearing give a determination in writing to the employee with copies to the department head and the employee's immediate supervisor.
a. The Third Stage - The Appointing Authority
If a grievance is not satisfactorily settled at a lower stage, the employee may within seven (7) business days of the date of the notice of the determination at the second stage request a review by the appointing authority or a member of the appointing authority's staff designated by the appointing authority to act in the appointing authority's behalf. However, the person so designated by the appointing authority shall not have been involved in the first or second stage of the grievance. An agreed upon statement of fact may be submitted jointly by the employee and the employee's supervisor, or each shall submit separate statements. The appointing authority or the appointing authority's designated staff member, shall meet with the employee and the employee's representative, if any, within seven (7) business days after receipt of the grievance. The review shall be informal, except that a written record must be maintained of the review. Such record shall constitute an adequate summary of the review and need not be a verbatim transcript.
In any event, the appointing authority shall within seven (7) business days of review give a determination in writing to the employee together with a copy of the written record of the review.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
32
d. Final Determination By Binding Arbitration
Upon failure to resolve the employee's grievance satisfactorily at the department, office, agency or institution level, the Union must, within fifteen (15) days of notice of the appointing authority's determination, notify the County Executive, in writing, of its intention to submit such grievance to final and binding arbitration. The time limit for such notice may be extended upon written mutual agreement between the parties. Upon receipt of such notice, the parties shall cooperate in the appointment of an arbitrator and in the submission of the grievance to the arbitrator in accordance with the arbitration procedure set forth below.
D.	ARBITRATION:
1.	Grievances as described herein and disciplinary proceedings as described in Article V.2. of this agreement shall be finally determined by an arbitrator in accordance with the provisions of this article of the contract.
2.	The arbitrator shall be chosen from a list agreed upon in January of each year by the parties through their respective counsel or duly authorized representatives.
3.	The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be shared equally between the employer and the union.
4.	It is not the intention of the parties that a transcript of the hearing and proceedings before the arbitrator be routinely made. If, however, either the employer or the union shall elect to have a transcript made, there shall be no objection to the making of the transcript provided the cost thereof is borne by the party who requests the same and such party shall supply a copy of the transcript to the arbitrator and to the other party without charge.
5.	The arbitrator is empowered to receive, investigate, adjust, and adjudicate grievances submitted to it in accordance with the procedure set forth herein and render determinations of guilt or innocence and the appropriateness of proposed penalties In any disciplinary proceeding submitted to the arbitrator.
6.	The employer shall provide a place for the arbitration hearing on County property.
7.	The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing, take testimony of the parties and their witnesses and receive documents and other papers submitted as deemed relevant and appropriate by the arbitrator, and summon any and all persons considered necessary to the equitable adjustment of the grievance or disciplinary proceeding.
8.	The arbitrator shall neither add to, detract from, nor modify the language of this agreement in arriving at the determination of any issue presented for determination.
9.	The arbitrator shall not be bound by the formal rules of evidence.
10.	In disciplinary proceedings, the employee's entire record of employment may be considered with respect to the appropriateness of the penalty to be imposed, if any.
11.	In disciplinary arbitrations, the arbitrator shall have authority to determine whether there was just cause for the discipline and if the arbitrator determines that just cause does not exist, then the arbitrator shall determine an appropriate remedy.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
33
12.	All hearings before the arbitrator, as well as all discussions between an employee and the employee's supervisor or appointing authority shall, insofar as practicable, be conducted during working hours, subject to departmental needs and requirements.
13.	The arbitrator's decision after a hearing held in accordance with the procedure set forth herein shall be final and binding upon the parties.
E.	TIME OF HEARING
All hearings, as well as all discussions between an employee and the employee's supervisor or appointing authority, shall insofar as practicable be conducted during working hours. Employees whose attendance is required shall be allowed such time off from their regular duties as may be necessary and reasonable for hearings.
F.	HELE,..LIMITS
Failure to comply with the time limits established for any stage of the procedure shall be deemed a withdrawal of the grievance if on the part of an employee and a determination resolved against the employee; if on the part of the immediate supervisor, unit, section or division head, or appointing authority, the employee shall then be entitled to appeal to the next stage of the grievance procedure. Time limits may be extended by mutual consent for a period not to exceed ten (10) business days.
G.	LEVELS OF SUPERVISION
The fact that this procedure provides for three (3) stages for the resolution of a grievance before submission of a grievance to arbitration, shall not bar orderly processing of a grievance in departments or offices where only one (1) or two (2) levels of supervision exist. Where there are less than three (3) distinct levels of supervision, including that of the appointing authority, then for the purposes of this procedure, a grievance shall be considered to have been properly processed when a written determination on the disposition of the grievance is given to the employee by the appointing authority. The minimum time limits shall be those established for the first and third, or third stages, respectively, as may be applicable.
H.	DEFINITIONS
APPEAL is the process or procedure by which an employee presents a grievance on which the employee has received a written determination from the appointing authority with which the employee is not satisfied.
COUNTY means the County of Rockland.
EMPLOYEE means any person in the negotiating unit directly employed and compensated by the County of Rockland.
IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR means the employee or officer on the next higher level of authority in the department, institution, office or agency wherein the grievance exists and who normally assigns and reviews the employee's work, approves the employee's time record or evaluates the employee's work performance by or with the designation of the appointing authority.
REPRESENTATIVE means the agent selected by the employee, or a group of employees, in the case of group grievances, to act in the employee(s) behalf in the processing of a grievance.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc '	34
STAGE means a step of the procedure involving contact between the employee and a representative of management as a result of which a decision on the grievance is made. A stage is considered to have been completed when a written determination is given to the aggrieved employee.
STATEMENT OF FACT means a written summary of the alleged grievance and shall be in the following form:
1.	The name, home address, title and work location of the aggrieved;
2.	The name, title and location of the appointing authority;
3.	A recital of the circumstances or conditions alleged to constitute the grievance;
4.	The specific remedy or relief sought;
5.	A summary of actions taken and of determinations made at previous stages with respect to said grievance.
UNIT, SECTION OR DIVISION HEAD means the employee or officer on a higher level of authority in direct line next above the immediate supervisor and below the level of the appointing authority, unless otherwise designated by the appointing authority.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVILSVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
35
ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART A SALARY PLAN PROVISIONS FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE ROCKLAND COUNTY SALARY PLAN
1.	Purpose
The purpose of the Rockland County Salary Plan Is to provide the County with a uniform and equitable system for payment for services of its employees by:
a.	establishing salary ranges for the several classes of positions in consideration of their relative difficulty and responsibility, and
b.	establishing uniform rules for the assignment and administration of salaries.
Its further purpose Is to provide the Employer with an aid from which it can make decisions concerning fiscal problems and to provide all appointing officers with assistance in preparing budgetary requests for personnel services and in making appointments, transfers, promotions and other personnel transactions.
2.	Coverage
This salary plan covers all employees of Rockland County who are in the recognized negotiating unit represented by the Union.
3.	Administration
The adoption of a salary grade schedule and salary rules and of any additions, deletions or modifications thereto shall be upon Resolution of the County Legislature.
The Commissioner of Personnel shall be responsible, in the reviewing of personnel transactions, to monitor the payment of salaries for compliance with the plan; and the Commissioner shall further be responsible for the administration and continual review of the plan and for recommending any changes therein to the Employer.
4.	General
Payment Within Salary Range. No employee shall be paid less than the starting salary of the grade to which the employee's position has been duly allocated, and no employee shall be paid more than the normal maximum of the employee's salary grade unless:
a.	the employee has been duly awarded one (1) or more longevity increments, or
b.	the employee's salary at the time the position was allocated or re-allocated to a salary
grade was already in excess thereof;
c.	the employee has been awarded an additional increment or increments mandated by State or Federal Policy.
5.	Rate.oLPay
a.	All rates of pay prescribed in the salary grade plan are for full time employment in a position duly established by the Employer.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
36
b.	Temporary or seasonal employees not occupying a duly established position shall be paid on an hourly basis and only for hours actually worked in accordance with the appropriate hourly rate for the position in the department, institution, agency or office concerned.
6.	Allocation of Position to Salary Grades
a.	Existing Position Titles. The allocation of the existing position titles to the salary grades is as determined by the salary grade allocation list which Is an integral part of this Agreement. Any reallocation of one (1) or more classes of positions among salary grades because of changing labor market or employment conditions shall be by resolution of the County Legislature after review of the recommendations submitted by the Commissioner of Personnel or by the Reallocation Appeals Board.
b.	New Position Titles. After a position has been duly classified or reclassified by the Department of Personnel and such action results in a new position title, the Employer, upon establishing the position, shall review the Commissioner of Personnel's allocation recommendation and allocate the position to an appropriate salary grade.
c.	Subsequent Reallocation Upward. When a position title is reallocated to a higher salary grade the salary of all employees occupying such positions shall be established at the same increment steps of the new grade as they were on their previous grade.
d.	Subsequent Reallocation Downward. When a position title is reallocated to a lower salary grade the salaries of all employees occupying such positions shall remain unchanged; however, such employees shall thereafter earn increments only In the lower salary grade.
e.	Eligibility for Increment Increases Upon Reallocation. Reallocation of a position from one salary grade to another shall not effect an employee's eligibility for an annual or longevity increment under Section 11.
7.	Reclassification of Positions
a.	Resulting in Higher Title. When an individual position has been reclassified to a title allocated to a higher salary grade, an employee permanently appointed to such position shall continue to be paid in accordance with the original salary grade unless such employee is appointed to the reclassified title. In such case Section 9 becomes effective.
b.	Resulting in Lower Title. When a position has been reclassified to a title allocated to a lower salary grade, the salary of any employee occupying the position shall remain unchanged and such employee shall thereafter be eligible to earn increments only in the lower salary grade.
c.	1) This provision applies when an individual employee or the employee jointly with the Union initiates a request for reclassification and submits such request to the Department of Personnel in the approved manner.
2)	The Commissioner of Personnel will give reasonable notice after receipt of any application for a change in classification to the appointing authority and to the employees affected thereby. Any employees desiring to submit facts orally or in writing in connection with the reclassification of any position shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to do so.
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
37
3)	This provision shall not apply to reclassifications submitted as part of departmental budget submissions, department reorganizations or any other changes in operations required by law, programs or policies or departmental initiatives.
4)	Within the limit set forth above, when an individual employee or the employee jointly with the Union initiates a request for reclassification and submits such request to the Department of Personnel in the approved manner the following is agreed to:
(a)	Should the reclassification not be completed within three (3) months, at the employee(s), or the employee(s) jointly with the Union, request, the Commissioner of Personnel shall provide a written report within two (2) weeks as to the status of the pending reclassification request, together with a proposed timetable for completion.
(b)	If the Commissioner of Personnel confirms the existing classification or reclassifies to a title in the same or lower salary grade, the balance of this provision Is not applicable.
(c)	If the Commissioner of Personnel approves reclassification to a title allocated to a higher salary grade, concurrent with Its classification action, the Commissioner of Personnel shall direct the appointing authority to cease and desist using or assigning the employee to any duties and responsibilities other than those of the position to which such employee was originally appointed and shall concurrently notify the employee(s) who submitted such request and the Union.
(d)	Should the appointing authority continue to assign duties and responsibilities other than those of the position to which the employee was originally appointed for more than sixty (60) days after the date of the cease and desist letter, such employee or the employee with the Union shall have a right to file a grievance to obtain a money remedy of one (1) increment increase In salary or the starting salary of the higher position title, whichever is greater. Such right to file a grievance shall not extend beyond four (4) months from the date of the cease and desist letter signed by the Commissioner of Personnel.
(e)	If a grievance is properly filed and sustained, the money remedy described in subsection 4 (d) above shall be retroactive to no earlier than sixty (60) days prior to the date of the cease and desist letter.
8.	Appointments Above Starting Salary
a.	Specific Appointments. The Employer may from time to time authorize specific appointments at an increment step above the starting salary of the grade if the position has been deemed by the Commissioner of Personnel as being impossible to staff at only the starting salary. Appointment to Increment levels beyond the starting salary shall be based on training and/or experience factors In accordance with standards established by the Department of Personnel.
b.	Designated Position Titles. Where persistent shortages of qualified personnel exist or where it is deemed advantageous to the County to attract and to hold employees with special training or experience the Employer may, upon recommendation of the Department of Personnel, designate certain positions which may be filled and in which
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVO\CSEACCl.doc 38
incumbents may be paid at increments above starting salary in accordance with standards, established by the Department of Personnel, which reflect training and/or experience above the minimum required for the position.
c.	In the event that an appointment to a position is made at an increment step above starting salary as provided above all incumbents In the same position title who meet the experience standards shall be awarded Increment Increases to bring them in line with such appointee provided, however, no salary shall exceed the normal maximum of the salary grade for that position.
9.	Reappointments, Promotions and Demotions
a.	General. No employee of the County shall suffer a loss in pay by accepting a subsequent appointment in the County service to a position which is allocated to a salary grade no lower than the employee's present one. Consequently, any such appointee shall be paid the starting salary of the position or the employee's current salary, whichever is greater.
b.	Promotions, Whenever the reappointment of a County employee constitutes a promotional advance as defined by the Department of Personnel, such employee shall receive one increment increase In salary or the starting salary of the higher position whichever is greater.
c.	Reappointment to a Position allocated to a Lower Salary Grade. Any employee laid off after January 1, 1992 who is not the subject of any disciplinary proceeding, and who is rehired and appointed to position with a lower salary grade than the position from which they were laid off, shall be paid at the rate for their new salary grade which is closest to, but which shall not exceed the rate which they had previously received.
d.	Return to Original Position From Other Assignments. An employee who returns to the employee's original position after completing another assignment whether such be a temporary assignment or provisional promotion, shall be paid the employee's last salary in the employee's original position Increased by an annual or longevity increments or general increases the employee would have been eligible for had the employee remained in such original position.
e.	An employee temporarily required or assigned to work in a duly established position allocated to a higher salary grade shall, after four (4) weeks, be paid the minimum salary authorized for such duly established position or one (1) increment above said employee's present salary, whichever is greater. Provided however that it Is agreed and understood that such payment shall not constitute a grievance requiring the filling of such duly established position.
The intent is to restrict the use of 9.e above to cases of individuals assigned to work in established, encumbered positions when the Incumbent is absent from work for an extended period of time.
10.	Transfers and Reinstatements
a.	Transfers Within County Service. If an employee is transferred within the County Service, the employee shall continue to be paid the same salary.
b.	Transfers Into County Service. If an employee is transferred into the County Service, the employee shall normally be paid at the starting salary in the grade of the position to which the employee is transferred. However, if this salary is below that which the
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc
39
employee is being paid in the position from which transferred, the employee may, upon recommendation of the Department of Personnel and specific authorization of the Employer be paid up to the third increment step of the grade, due regard being given to the employee's total public service in the title in which transferred.
c.	Reinstatement From Former County Service. A reinstated County employee shall be paid at the increment level of the salary grade of the position to which reinstated which is nearest that of the employee's former salary in the County position from which reinstated, provided however, no such employee shall be deprived of the effect of any general wage increases or subsequent grade reallocation upward. For purposes of salary administration, any former County employee, who has been rehlred in the same or equivalent position title within one (1) year from the termination of the previous employment shall be paid as a reinstated County employee.
1)	A County employee rehired within one (1) year of termination, in a position allocated to a lower salary grade than the position from which terminated, but in same promotional field, shall be paid at the same increment level as the employee was paid in the former position, e.g., former position allocated to Grade 10 at Step C - rehired in a position allocated to Grade 5 shall be placed in Step C.
d.	Reinstatement From Other Jurisdictions. A former employee of another Civil division reinstated to a position in the County Service shall be paid in accordance with Section 10 (b) applying to transfers into the County Service.
11.	Increment and Longevity Increases
a.	General. The service of each employee shall be reviewed by the department head or appointing authority for the purpose of determining whether such employee shall be recommended for an annual or longevity increment increase. All personnel records, including those pertaining to attendance and tardiness, shall be considered. Any increment which is not awarded as a result of an unfavorable evaluation of service when the employee would otherwise be eligible for such award may, in the discretion of the appointing authority, subsequently be awarded during the ensuing year without jeopardizing any subsequent award of an annual or longevity increment for which the employee would otherwise be eligible.
b.	Annual Increments. An employee shall be eligible for an annual increment on the anniversary date of the employee concerned, except that for employees who entered County service on or prior to September 1, 1968, annual increments shall be awarded on January 1.
1)	Only full-time or part-time permanent, provisional and temporary employees in duly established positions shall be eligible to receive an annual increment.
2)	No employee shall receive more than one (1) such increment during the year under the provisions of this section.
c.	An employee shall be eligible to receive a salary increase for longevity whenever the following conditions are met:
1)	the employee's current salary has reached the normal maximum salary of the employee's grade or exceeds it; and,
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSE AC Cl.doc
40
2)	the employee shall have completed ten (10), fifteen (15), twenty (20), or twenty-five (25) years of continuous service with the County to be eligible respectively, for the first, second and third and fourth longevity increment of the grade; provided, however, that no employee shall be eligible for the second or third or fourth longevity increment prior to the employee's having received, respectively, the first and second and third longevity increment unless the employee's current salary is already In excess thereof; and,
3)	the employee is specifically recommended by the employee's appointing authority to receive the longevity increment; and,
4)	no employee shall receive more than one (1) such increment during the year under the provisions of this section.
12.	Additional RayXoLP.eRuty. Duties
a.	General Provisions. Subject to the limitations below, any employee who is duly designated to act for and in place of the employee's principal provided such principal is a department head or other appointing officer, shall, with the specific consent of the Employer in each instance, be entitled to receive one (1) additional increment in the salary grade to which the employee's permanent civil service position has been allocated, even though the maximum of the salary grade be exceeded. Such salary increment shall continue to be earned as long as the employee serves as a deputy and no limitations arise to prohibit payment for such services.
Any other salary actions taken pursuant to these Rules shall be determined by the salary grade allocation of the employee's position title without reference to this additional compensation.
b.	Limiting Provisions. Such increment differential shall be limited to one (1) position in any department or office and shall apply only in those departments or offices which do not have a classified deputy or equivalent position whether specifically classified as such or so indicated in the position specification, unless more than one (1) such assistant position exists. No employee may receive an increment differential for more than one (1) deputy designation at the time.
■»
C:\My Documents\CSEA (CIVIL SVC)\CSEAC Cl.doc 41
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION ALPHABETIC LISTING 35 Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	Title
6 6 17 19 24 19 14 16	Account Clerk Account Clerk-Typist Accountant I Accountant II Accountant III Administrative Analyst Administrative Secretary Administrative Secretary (County Executive)
15 8 5 16 18 8 20 23 17 19	Administrative Secretary (Medical) Archives Assistant Archives Clerk Art Therapist Assistant Coordinator, EMS Assistant Data Input Supervisor Assistant Director of Billing (Mental Health) Assistant Director, Guidance Center Assistant Environmental Health Specialist Assistant Managed Care Coordinator
16 5 19 19 8 18 16	Assistant Nutritionist (Public Health) Assistant Office Machine Operator Assistant Public Health Engineer Assistant Trips Operations Supervisor Billing Clerk Billing Specialist Budget Examiner I
19 22 25 15 18 13 13 20 12	Budget Examiner II Budget Examiner III Budget Specialist Budget Staff Assistant I Budget Staff Assistant II Career Counseling Assistant Career Counseling Intern Career Counselor Career Criminal Program Assistant
9 11 24 24 17 5 13 17	Career Information Assistant I Career Information Assistant II Case Supervisor, Grade B Case Supervisor (Protective Services) Caseworker (Group of Classes) Cashier (Cafeteria) Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant Chaplain
10/1/00
42
ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B
SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION
ALPHABETIC LISTING
	35 Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	Title
16 ‘	16 15 15 16 21 23 26 18 18	Chief Account Clerk Chief Audit Clerk Chief Billing Clerk Chief Purchasing Clerk Chief Tax Clerk Child Care Program Supervisor Child Psychologist II Child Psychologist III Child Support Specialist Child Support Unit Supervisor
5 5 5 5 19 5 9 4 17	Clerk Clerk and Courier Clerk Stenographer Clerk-Typist (Group of Classes) Collection Specialist Communications Aide Communications Assistant Community Client Services Aide Community Client Services Assistant (Intensive Care)
12 14 15 18 1 6 8 9	Community Client Services Assistant I (Group of Classes) Community Client Services Assistant II (Group of Classes) Community Development Program Assistant (Group of Classes) Community Mental Health Nurse Community Services Aide Community Services Worker I (Group of Classes) Community Services Worker II (Group of Classes) Community Services Worker III (Group of Classes)
6 6 10 21 17 14 19 9	Composer Operator Computer Operator II Computer Operations Specialist Computer Systems Trainer Confidential Investigator (ADP) (Spanish Speaking) Consumer Services Inspector I Consumer Services Inspector II Control Clerk I
12 12 .	20 15 23 .	20 21 18 23	Control Clerk II Control Clerk II (County Clerk) Coordinator, Enhanced Drug & Alcohol Services Program Coordinator, Healthy Neighborhood Coordinator, MIS (Personnel) Coordinator, Next Steps Program Coordinator, TANF Services Coordinator of Volunteer Services Coordinator, WIC Program
10/1/00
43
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION ALPHABETIC LISTING 35 Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	Title	.
18 16	County Payroll Coordinator Court Records Coordinator	.
15 16 5 8 11 13 9 6	Dance Therapist Data Control Assistant Data Entry Operator I Data Entry Operator II Data Entry Operator III Data Input Supervisor Data Processing Assistant (Computer Operations) Dental Assistant
14 11 18 15 20 22 20 15 18	Dental Hygienist Dietary Technician (Public Health) Director of Volunteer Services Discharge Coordination Assistant Early Intervention Assistant Early Intervention Specialist EISEP Program Coordinator Employee Rights & Equity Compliance Assistant I Employee Rights & Equity Compliance Assistant II
11 14 15 5 9 11 16	Employment Assistant I Employment Assistant II (Group of Classes) Employment Assistant III EMS Instruction Assistant EMS Laboratory Instructor EMS Instructor EMS Instruction Supervisor
20 21 8 13 8 4 14 19	Engineer I Engineer II Environmental Health Aide Environmental Health Assistant Facilities Liaison Assistant File Clerk (Group of Classes) Financial Support Services Supervisor Fire & Emergency Services Specialist
18 11 18 10 18 14 16 18	Fire Instruction Supervisor Fire Instructor Fiscal Staff Assistant Food Service Instructor	• Fraud & Fair Hearings Unit Supervisor G.I.S. Assistant	. G.I.S. Technician	■ G.I.S. Technician II
10/1/00
44
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION ALPHABETIC LISTING 35 Hr. Week
Grade Allocation	Title
24 16 12 13 15 6 15 3 7	Head Social Welfare Examiner Health Care Services Assistant Health Care Worker Health Records Assistant Home Economist Home Health Aide Home Program Assistant Homemaker Horticulture Therapy Assistant
20 6 9 10 18 16 10 12	Housing Locator Housing Program Assistant Housing Review Assistant (Group of Classes) Human Rights Assistant Human Rights Specialist Imaging Systems Coordinator Insurance Clerk I Insurance Clerk II
15 22 13 16 18 16	Insurance Clerk III Insurance Specialist Investigations Assistant (Public Defender) Job Developer I Job Developer II	' Job Development & Community Relations Assistant (Displaced Homemaker Project)
12 5	Job Service Outreach Worker (Social Services) Key Punch Operator
16 7 17 16 9 9 12 5	Kosher Food Inspector Laboratory Assistant (Public Health) Land Acquisition Agent Land Records Coordinator Legal Stenographer Legal Transcriber Litigation Assistant Mail Clerk
10 15 17 18 6 10 6 18 19	Managed Care Assistant Managed Care Specialist Managed Care Specialist II Map Design Technician Medical Clerk Medical Clerk and Stenographer Medical Clerk-Typist Medical Librarian Medical Services Unit Supervisor
10/1/00
45
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION ALPHABETIC LISTING 35 Hr, Week
Grade.AllQcati.on	Tille
17 8 8 14 21 1 16	Medical Social Worker Medical Stenographer Medical Transcriber MIS Assistant (Group of Classes) MIS Specialist (Group of Classes) Municipal Aide (Group of Classes) Music Therapist
3 23 22 17 18	Nurse's Aide (Public Health) Nurse Practitioner (Public Health) Nutrition Program Coordinator Nutritionist (Group of Classes) Nutritionist II (Public Health)
18 5 7 1 14 22 15	Occupational Therapist Occupational Therapy Aide Office Machine Operator Office Services Aide Office Services Supervisor Outpatient Billing Supervisor Outpatient Services Supervisor
11 14 17 17 11 7 7 18 16 12 9 12 21 19	Paralegal Specialist I (Criminal Law) Paralegal Specialist I (Municipal Law) Paralegal Specialist II (Criminal Law) Paralegal Specialist II (Group of Classes) Pastoral Assistant Payroll Clerk Payroll Clerk-Typist Payroll 8i Employee Services Specialist Personnel Assistant Personnel Clerk Personnel Information Clerk Personnel Projects Assistant Personnel Specialist Personnel Technician
19B 7 25 16 5 13 18 15 21 13	Pharmacist Pharmacy Assistant Pharmacy Specialist Physical Therapist Physical Therapy Aide Physical Therapy Assistant Planner (Group of Classes) Planning & Evaluation Assistant (Group of Classes) Planning & Evaluation Specialist	. Planning/GML Assistant
10/1/00
46
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION ALPHABETIC LISTING
	35 Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	litle
’	14 14 13 13 13 13 14 14	Principal Account Clerk Principal Account Clerk-Typist Principal Audit Clerk Principal Clerk Principal Clerk-Stenographer Principal Clerk-Typist Principal Library Clerk Principal Medical Clerk
22 14 22 11 13 13 14 .	19	Principal Occupational Therapist Principal Payroll Clerk Principal Physical Therapist Principal Physical Therapy Aide (Group of Classes) Principal Purchasing Clerk Principal Purchasing Clerk-Typist Principal Records Clerk Principal Social Welfare Examiner
14 14 13 19 8 13 21 16	Principal Tax Clerk Principal Telephone Operator Probation Assistant Probation Officer (Group of Classes) Program Aide (Tourism) Program Assistant	' Program Coordinator, Home Care Services Program Review Assistant (Aging)
16 20 12 19 16 18 22 25 19 23 26	Program Review Assistant (RCC) Program Specialist, Public Health Education Project Assistant, Rockland Environmental Corps Project Coordinator, Older Americans Act Project Coordinator, Rockland Environmental Corps Psychiatric Social Worker I (Group of Classes) Psychiatric Social Worker II (Group of Classes) Psychiatric Social Worker III (Group of Classes) Psychologist I Psychologist II Psychologist III
3 -	13 15 7 .	15 17 19 15	Public Health Aide Public Health Assessment Assistant Public Health Assessment Assistant II (Group of Classes) Public Health Assistant Public Health Educator Public Health Nurse Public Health Socibl Worker Public Health Specialist I
10/1/00
47
ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B
SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION
ALPHABETIC LISTING
	35 Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	litis	-
18 13 18 19 8 13 14 14 17 20	Public Health Specialist II Public Health Technician I	* Public Health Technician II Public Information Specialist Public Works Clerk I Public Works Clerk II Publications Assistant Publications Technician Purchaser I Purchaser II
13 18 6 6 6 8 8	Quality Assurance Control Clerk Radiological Health Specialist Receptionist Receptionist and Telephone Operator Receptionist-Typist Records Clerk (Group of Classes) Records Clerk-Typist (Group of Classes)
12 17 12 14 18 22 25 18	Records Management Assistant Records Management Specialist Recreational Therapist Registered Nurse (Public Health) Rehabilitation Counselor I, Rehabilitation Counselor II Rehabilitation Counselor III Remedial Teacher
18 15 21 13 13 13 9 9	Research Technician (Planning) Resource Assistant I Resource Assistant II Secretarial Assistant I Secretarial Assistant II Secretarial Assistant (Legal) Senior Account Clerk Senior Account Clerk-Typist
21 17 10 19 8 10 11 7	Senior Administrative Analyst Senior Art Therapist Senior Billing Clerk Senior Caseworker (Group of Classes) Senior Clerk Senior Drafter (Engineering)	' Senior Environmental Health Aide Senior File Clerk	,

10/1/00
48
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION ALPHABETIC LISTING 35 Hr. Week
Grade Allocation	Title
8 9 9 11 6 20 11 11	Senior Mail Clerk Senior Medical Clerk Senior Medical Clerk-Typist Senior Medical Transcriber Senior Nurse's Aide (Public Health) Senior Occupational Therapist Senior Office Machine Operator Senior Payroll Clerk
11 22 10 20 9 18 21	Senior Payroll Clerk-Typist Senior Pharmacist Senior Pharmacy Assistant Senior Physical Therapist Senior Physical Therapy Aide Senior Planning & Evaluation Assistant (Group of Classes) Senior Probation Officer
7 19 24 24 10 10 9 9	Senior Public Health Aide Senior Public Health Nurse Senior Public Health Social Worker Senior Public Information Specialist Senior Purchasing Clerk Senior Purchasing Clerk-Typist Senior Records Clerk (Group of Classes) Senior Records Clerk-Typist (Group of Classes)
18 14 15 20 20 8 9 9	Senior Recreational Therapist Senior Social Services Investigator (Fraud) Senior Social Welfare Examiner Senior Special Education Teacher Senior Speech and Hearing Therapist Senior Stenographer Senior Tax Clerk Senior Telephone Operator
8 10 6 8 26 13 13 15 15 18	Senior Typist (Group of Classes) Senior Youth Program Aide Services Aide (Records) Sewer Unit Inspector Sex Offender Treatment Specialist Social Services Investigator (Fraud) Social Welfare Examiner (Group of Classes) Social Work Assistant Social Work Assistant (Mental Health) Solid Waste Assistant
10/1/00
49
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION ALPHABETIC LISTING 35 Hr. Week
Grade Allocation	Title
3 8 17 18 18 16 25 13 16	Special Education Aide Special Education Assistant Special Education Teacher	. Special Projects Assistant Speech & Hearing Therapist Staff Development Assistant Supervising Probation Officer Support Investigator I (Group of Classes) Support Investigator II
19 9 16 14 12 6 18 18 5	Systems Analyst Systems Services Assistant (MIS) Systems Services Coordinator (MIS) Systems Services Specialist (MIS) Systems Services Technician (MIS) Tax Clerk Tax Specialist TDM Marketing Assistant Telephone Operator
5 8 21 7 5 17 20 8	Telephone Operator-Typist Terminal Operator & Control Clerk Title Examiner Traffic Safety Assistant Transcriber Transit Analyst Transit Operations Supervisor Transportation Aide
11 17 11B 14 3 18 6 13 8 16 18	Transportation Assistant (Group of Classes) Veteran's Specialist Vocational Instructor Volunteer Services Assistant Word Processing Machine Operator Workers Compensation Specialist Youth Employment Aide Youth Employment Coordinator Youth Program Aide Youth Program Assistant Youth Program Specialist
10/1/00
50
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION ALPHABETIC LISTING 40 Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	Title
47B 60 53 47 49 48 48 61 51B 54	Activities Aide Activities Coordinator, Adult Home Activities Coordinator, Family Shelter Adult Home Attendant Adult Home Attendant II Assistant Automotive Mechanic Assistant Building Maintenance Mechanic Assistant Head Nurse Assistant Shift Operator (WPCP) Automotive Mechanic
46 47B 48 54 42B 60 '	47B 45 50 52 44 48 42B 45 50 52	Beautician Chauffeur Chauffeur and Assistant Dispatcher Chief Dispatcher Cleaner Community Health Nurse Community Liaison Aide (Social Services) Cook I Cook II Cook III Courier Crime Victims Aide Custodial Worker Custodian I Custodian II Custodian III
49 54 62 54 49 50 60	Dietary Assistant Dietary Technician Dietitian Dispatcher II EKG/EEG Technician EKG/PVT Technician Electrical Inspector
57 59 41 59 65 *	63 47	Electro-Medical Equipment Repairer Electronic Equipment Repairer Elevator Attendant Engineer I (Field) Engineer II (Sewers) (Field) Engineering Specialist (Highway) Engineering Technician
10/1/00
51
ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B
SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION
ALPHABETIC LISTING
	40 Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	Title
43B 56 42C 53 53 61 43	Fire Instructor Aide Food Services Coordinator Food Service Helper Food Services Supervisor Groundskeeper I Groundskeeper II (County) Groundsworker
64 58 56 58 52 55 59	Head Nurse Housing Rehabilitation Coordinator Housing Rehabilitation Specialist (Field) Infection Control Nurse Investigative Aide I (Narcotics) Investigative Aide II (Narcotics) Investigative Aide III (Narcotics)
49 50 44B 53 43C 45C 48 49	Laboratory Assistant Laboratory Equipment Operator Laboratory Helper Laboratory Technician (Group of Classes) Laundry Worker I Laundry Worker II Laundry Worker III Law Enforcement Assistant
52 53 52 45B 55 58	Maintenance Assistant I Maintenance Assistant II Maintenance Assistant (Incinerator) Maintenance Helper Maintenance Mechanic (Group of Classes) Maintenance Mechanic II (Group of Classes)
61 58 45 50 60 44B 46 49B	Maintenance Supervisor (Group of Classes) Medical Investigator Medical Supply Worker Medical Supply Worker II Medical Technologist Mental Health Aide Mental Health Worker I Mental Health Worker II
10/1/00
52
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION ALPHABETIC LISTING 40 Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	Title
53 47 41 49 45B 47	Mental Health Worker III Motor Equipment Operator II Municipal Aide (Group of Classes) Municipal Bus Driver Nurse's Aide (Institutional) Nursing Assistant (Rehabilitation)
55 58 50 44 56 53 60 56 51 60 58	Park Ranger I Park Ranger II Patient Activities Leader Personal Care Aide Personal Care Services Supervisor Photo Process Technician (BCI) Plumbing Examiner Pollution Control Assistant Practical Nurse (Institutional) Principal Engineering Technician Projects Specialist (Hospitals)
60 54 56 54 57 54 57B 61 55	Radio Communications Specialist Radio Operator I Radio Operator II Radio Operator 8i Technician Radio Operator II & Technician Radiologic Technologist Registered Nurse (Institutional) Resident Home Site Manager Resident Shelter Manager
55 43C 52 57 44B 54 51 46C	Scheduling Assistant (Nursing) Seamstress Security Aide Security Assistant (Social Services) Senior Cleaner Senior Engineering Technician (Group of Classes) Senior File Clerk (BCI) Senior Food Service Helper
65 63 47 56 52 53 58 60	Senior Medical Investigator Senior Medical Technologist Senior Nurse's Aide (Institutional) Senior Security Aide Senior Watchman Sewage System Mechanic I Sewage System Mechanic II Sewage System Supervisor
10/1/00
53
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION ALPHABETIC LISTING 40 Hr. Week
Grade Allocation	Ittle
47 57 52 46 50 56 54 57	Shelter Services Worker Shift Operator (WPCP) Stationary Engineer Stock Clerk Storekeeper I Storekeeper II Substance Abuse Counselor I Substance Abuse Counselor II
63	Supervisor, Alcohol and Substance Abuse Rehabilitation Services (Day)
63	Supervisor, Alcohol and Substance Abuse Rehabilitation Services (Evening)
58 52 62 45B	Supervising Groundskeeper Supervising Housekeeper Supervising Operator (WPCP) Supply Aide
61 62 61 46C 52	Utilities Plant Foreman Utilization Review Assistant Vehicle Control Worker Watchman Witness Aide
10/1/00
54
ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B
SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION
LISTING BY GRADE
35-Hr, Week
Grade Allocation Title
1	Community Services Aide
1	Municipal Aide (Group of Classes)
1	Office Services Aide
3	Homemaker
3	Nurse's Aide (Public Health)
3	Public Health Aide
3	Special Education Aide
3	Word Processing Machine Operator
4	Community Client Services Aide
4	File Clerk (Group of Classes)
5	Archives Clerk
5	Assistant Office Machine Operator
5	Cashier (Cafeteria)
5	Clerk
5	Clerk and Courier
5	Clerk Stenographer
5	Clerk-Typist (Group of Classes)
5	Communications Aide
5	Data Entry Operator I
5	EMS Instruction Assistant
5	Key Punch Operator
5	Mail Clerk
5	Occupational Therapy Aide
5	Physical Therapy Aide
5	Telephone Operator
5	Telephone Operator-Typist
5	Transcriber
6	Account Clerk
6	Account Clerk-Typist
6	Community Services Worker I (Group of Classes)
6	Composer Operator
6	Computer Operator II
6	Dental Assistant
6	Home Health Aide
6	Housing Program Assistant
6	Medical Clerk
6	Medical Clerk-Typist
6	Receptionist
6	Receptionist and Telephone Operator
6	Receptionist-Typist
6	Senior Nurse's Aide (Public Health)
6	Services Aide (Records)
6	Tax Clerk
6	Youth Employment Aide
55
ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B
SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION
LISTING BY GRADE
Grade Allocation Title
35-Hr, Week
7	Horticulture Therapy Assistant
7	Laboratory Assistant (Public Health)
7	Office Machine Operator
7	Payroll Clerk
7	Payroll Clerk-Typist
7	Pharmacy Assistant
7	Public Health Assistant
7	Senior File Clerk
7	Senior Public Health Aide
7	Traffic Safety Assistant
8	Archives Assistant
8	Assistant Data Input Supervisor
8	Billing Clerk
8	Community Services Worker II	(Group of Classes)
8	Data Entry Operator II
8	Environmental Health Aide
8	Facilities Liaison Assistant
8	Medical Stenographer
8	Medical Transcriber
8	Program Aide (Tourism)
8	Public Works Clerk I
8	Records Clerk (Group of Classes)
8	Records Clerk-Typist (Group of Classes)
8	Senior Clerk
8	Senior Mail Clerk
8	Senior Stenographer
8	Senior Typist (Group of	Classes)
8	Sewer Unit Inspector
8	Special Education Assistant
8 Terminal Operator & Control Clerk
8	Transportation Aide
8	Youth Program Aide
9	Career Information Assistant I
9	Communications Assistant
9	Community Services Worker III	(Group of Classes)
9	Control Clerk I
9	Data Processing Assistant (Computer Operations)
9	EMS Laboratory Instructor
9	Housing Review Assistant	(Group of Classes)
9	Legal Stenographer
9	Legal Transcriber
9	Personnel Information Clerk
56
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION LISTING BY GRADE
35-Hr, Week
Grade Allocation Title
9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9	Senior Account Clerk Senior Account Clerk-Typist Senior Medical Clerk Senior Medical Clerk-Typist Senior Physical Therapy Aide Senior Records Clerk (Group of Classes) Senior Records Clerk-Typist (Group of Classes) Senior Tax Clerk Senior Telephone Operator Systems Services Assistant (MIS)
10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10	Computer Operations Specialist Food Service Instructor Human Rights Assistant Insurance Clerk I Managed Care Assistant Medical Clerk and Stenographer Senior Billing Clerk Senior Drafter (Engineering) Senior Pharmacy Assistant Senior Purchasing Clerk Senior Purchasing Clerk-Typist Senior Youth Program Aide
11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11B	Career Information Assistant II Data Entry Operator III Dietary Technician (Public Health) Employment Assistant I EMS Instructor Fire Instructor Paralegal Specialist I (Criminal Law) Pastoral Assistant Principal Physical Therapy Aide (Group of Classes) Senior Environmental Health Aide Senior Medical Transcriber Senior Office Machine Operator Senior Payroll Clerk Senior Payroll Clerk-Typist Transportation Assistant (Group of Classes) Vocational Instructor
12 12 12 12 12 12 12	Career Criminal Program Assistant Community Client Services Assistant I (Group of Classes) Control Clerk II Control Clerk II (County Clerk) Health Care Worker Insurance Clerk II Job Service Outreach Worker (Social Services)
57
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION LISTING BY GRADE
35-Hr, Week
Grade Allocation Title
12 12 12 12 12 12 12	Litigation Assistant Personnel Clerk Personnel Projects Assistant Project Assistant, Rockland Environmental Corps Records Management Assistant Recreational Therapist Systems Services Technician (MIS)
13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13 13	Career Counseling Assistant Career Counseling Intern Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant Data Input Supervisor Environmental Health Assistant Health Records Assistant Investigations Assistant (Public Defender) Physical Therapy Assistant Planning/GML Assistant Principal Audit Clerk Principal Clerk Principal Clerk-Stenographer Principal Clerk-Typist Principal Purchasing Clerk Principal Purchasing Clerk-Typist Probation Assistant Program Assistant Public Health Assessment Assistant Public Health Technician I Public Works Clerk II Quality Assurance Control Clerk Secretarial Assistant I Secretarial Assistant II Secretarial Assistant (Legal) Social Services Investigator (Fraud) Social Welfare Examiner (Group of Classes) Support Investigator I (Group of Classes) Youth Employment Coordinator
14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14	Administrative Secretary Community Client Services Assistant II (Group of Classes) Consumer Services Inspector I Dental Hygienist Employment Assistant II (Group of Classes) Financial Support Services Supervisor G.I.S. Assistant MIS Assistant (Group of Classes) Office Services Supervisor	. Paralegal Specialist I (Municipal Law)
58
ARTICLE MIU, APPENDIX B - PART B
SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION
LISTING BY GRADE
35-Hr. Week
Grade Allocation Title
14	Principal Account Clerk
14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14	Principal Account Clerk-Typist Principal Library Clerk Principal Medical Clerk Principal Payroll Clerk Principal Records Clerk Principal Tax Clerk Principal Telephone Operator Publications Assistant Publications Technician Registered Nurse (Public Health) Senior Social Services Investigator (Fraud) Systems Services Specialist (MIS) Volunteer Services Assistant
15 15 15 15 14 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15	Administrative Secretary (Medical) Budget Staff Assistant I Chief Billing Clerk Chief Purchasing Clerk Community Development Program Assistant (Group of Classes) Coordinator, Healthy Neighborhood Dance Therapist Discharge Coordination Assistant Employee Rights & Equity Compliance Assistant I Employment Assistant III Home Economist Home Program Assistant Insurance Clerk III Managed Care Specialist Outpatient Services Supervisor Planning & Evaluation Assistant (Group of Classes) Public Health Assessment Assistant II (Group of Classes) Public Health Educator Public Health Specialist I Resource Assistant I Senior Social Welfare Examiner Social Work Assistant Social Work Assistant (Mental Health)
16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16	Administrative Secretary (County Executive) Art Therapist Assistant Nutritionist (Public Health) Budget Examiner I Chief Account Clerk Chief Audit Clerk Chief Tax Clerk Court Records Coordinator Data Control Assistant
59
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION LISTING BY GRADE
35 Hr Week
Grade Allocation Title
16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16 16	EMS Instruction Supervisor G.I.S. Technician Health Care Services Assistant Imaging Systems Coordinator Job Developer I Job Development & Community Relations Assistant (Displaced Homemaker Project) Kosher Food Inspector Land Records Coordinator Music Therapist Personnel Assistant Physical Therapist Program Review Assistant (Aging) Program Review Assistant (RCC) Project Coordinator, Rockland Environmental Corps Staff Development Assistant Support Investigator II Systems Services Coordinator (MIS) Youth Program Assistant
17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17 17	Accountant I Assistant Environmental Health Specialist Caseworker (Group of Classes) Chaplain Community Client Services Assistant (Intensive Care) Confidential Investigator (ADP) (Spanish Speaking) Land Acquisition Agent Managed Care Specialist II Medical Social Worker Nutritionist (Group of Classes) Paralegal Specialist II (Criminal Law) Paralegal Specialist II (Group of Classes) Public Health Nurse Purchaser I Records Management Specialist Senior Art Therapist Special Education Teacher Transit Analyst Veteran's Specialist
18 18 18 18 18 18 18 18	Assistant Coordinator, EMS Billing Specialist Budget Staff Assistant II Child Support Specialist Child Support Unit Supervisor Community Mental Health Nurse Coordinator of Volunteer Services County Payroll Coordinator
60
Grade Allocation
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
19
ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B
SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION
LISTING BY GRADE
35-Hr, Week
Title
Director of Volunteer Services
Employee Rights & Equity Compliance Assistant II
Fire Instruction Supervisor
Fiscal Staff Assistant
Fraud & Fair Hearings Unit Supervisor
G.I.S. Technician II
Human Rights Specialist
Job Developer II
Map Design Technician
Medical Librarian
Nutritionist II (Public Health)
Occupational Therapist
Payroll & Employee Services Specialist
Planner (Group of Classes)
Psychiatric Social Worker I (Group of Classes)
Public Health Specialist II
Public Health Technician II
Radiological Health Specialist
Rehabilitation Counselor I
Remedial Teacher
Research Technician (Planning)
Senior Planning &. Evaluation Assistant (Group of Classes)
Senior Recreational Therapist
Solid Waste Assistant
Special Projects Assistant
Speech & Hearing Therapist
Tax Specialist
TDM Marketing Assistant
Workers Compensation Specialist
Youth Program Specialist
Accountant II
Administrative Analyst
Assistant Managed Care Coordinator
Assistant Public Health Engineer
Assistant Trips Operations Supervisor
Budget Examiner II
Collection Specialist
Consumer Services Inspector II
Fire 8t Emergency Services Specialist
Medical Services Unit Supervisor
Personnel Technician
Principal Social Welfare Examiner
Probation Officer (Group of Classes)
Project Coordinator, Older Americans Act
Psychologist I
Public Health Social Worker
Public Information Specialist
61
ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B
SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION
LISTING BY GRADE
Grade Allocation Title
35-Hr, Week
19	Senior Caseworker (Group of Classes)
19	Senior Public Health Nurse
19	Systems Analyst
19B	Pharmacist
20	Assistant Director of Billing (Mental Health)
20	Career Counselor
20	Coordinator, Enhanced Drug & Alcohol Services Program
20	Coordinator, Next Steps Program
20	Early Intervention Assistant
20	EISEP Program Coordinator
20	Engineer I
20	Housing Locator
20	Program Specialist, Public Health Education
20	Purchaser II
20	Senior Occupational Therapist
20	Senior Physical Therapist
20	Senior Special Education Teacher
20	Senior Speech and Hearing Therapist
20	Transit Operations Supervisor
21	Child Care Program Supervisor
21	Computer Systems Trainer
21	Coordinator, TANF Services
21	Engineer II
21	MIS Specialist (Group of Classes)
21	Personnel Specialist
21	Planning and Evaluation Specialist
21	Program Coordinator, Home Care Services
21	Resource Assistant II
21	Senior Administrative Analyst
21	Senior Probation Officer
21	Title Examiner
22	Budget Examiner III
22	Early Intervention Specialist
22	Insurance Specialist
22	Nutrition Program Coordinator
22	Outpatient Billing Supervisor
22	Principal Occupational Therapist
22	Principal Physical Therapist
22 Psychiatric Social Worker II (Group of Classes)
22	Rehabilitation Counselor II
22	Senior Pharmacist
62
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION
LISTING BY GRADE
35-Hr, Week Grade Allocation Title
23 23 23 23 23 23	Assistant Director, Guidance Center Child Psychologist II Coordinator, MIS (Personnel) Coordinator, WIC Program Nurse Practitioner (Public Health) Psychologist II
24 24 24 24 24 24	Accountant III Case Supervisor, Grade B Case Supervisor (Protective Services) Head Social Welfare Examiner Senior Public Health Social Worker Senior Public Information Specialist
25 25 25 25 25	Budget Specialist Pharmacy Specialist Psychiatric Social Worker III (Group of Classes) Rehabilitation Counselor III Supervising Probation Officer
26 26 26	Child Psychologist III Psychologist III Sex Offender Treatment Specialist
63
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION LISTING BY GRADE 4O-Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	Title
41 41	Elevator Attendant Municipal Aide (Group of Classes)
42B 42B 42C	Cleaner Custodial Worker Food Service Helper
43 43B 43C 43C	Groundsworker Fire Instructor Aide Laundry Worker I Seamstress
44 44 44B 44B 44B	Courier Personal Care Aide Laboratory Helper Mental Health Aide Senior Cleaner
45 45 45 45B 45B 45B 45C	Cook I Custodian I Medical Supply Worker Maintenance Helper Nurse's Aide (Institutional) Supply Aide Laundry Worker II
46 46 46 46C 46C	Beautician Mental Health Worker I Stock Clerk Senior Food Service Helper Watchman
47 47 47 47 47 47 47B 47B 47B	Adult Home Attendant Engineering Technician Motor Equipment Operator II Nursing Assistant (Rehabilitation) Senior Nurse's Aide (Institutional) Shelter Services Worker Activities Aide Chauffeur Community Liaison Aide (Social Services)
48 48 48 48 48	Assistant Automotive Mechanic Assistant Building Maintenance Mechanic Chauffeur and Assistant Dispatcher Crime Victims Aide Laundry Worker III
64
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION LISTING BY GRADE 40-Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	Title
49 49 49 49 49 49 49B	Adult Home Attendant II Dietary Assistant EKG/EEG Technician Laboratory Assistant Law Enforcement Assistant Municipal Bus Driver Mental Health Worker II
50 50 50 50 50 50 50	Cook II Custodian II EKG/PVT Technician Laboratory Equipment Operator Medical Supply Worker II Patient Activities Leader Storekeeper I
.	51 51 51B	Practical Nurse (Institutional) Senior File Clerk (BCI) Assistant Shift Operator (WPCP)
52 52 52 52 52 52 52 52 52 52	Cook III Custodian III Investigative Aide I (Narcotics) Maintenance Assistant (Incinerator) Maintenance Assistant I Security Aide Senior Watchman Stationary Engineer Supervising Housekeeper Witness Aide
53 53 53 53 53 53 53 53	Activities Coordinator, Family Shelter Food Services Supervisor Groundskeeper I Laboratory Technician (Group of Classes) Maintenance Assistant II Mental Health Worker III Photo Process Technician (BCI) Sewage System Mechanic I
’	54 54 54 ~	54	Automotive Mechanic Chief Dispatcher Dietary Technician Dispatcher II
65
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION LISTING BY GRADE 40-Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	Title
54 54 54 54 54	Radio Operator & Technician Radio Operator I Radiologic Technologist Senior Engineering Technician (Group of Classes) Substance Abuse Counselor I
55 55 55 55 55	Investigative Aide II (Narcotics) Maintenance Mechanic (Group of Classes) Park Ranger I Resident Shelter Manager Scheduling Assistant (Nursing)
56 56 56 56 56 56 56	Food Services Coordinator Housing Rehabilitation Specialist (Field) Personal Care Services Supervisor Pollution Control Assistant Radio Operator II Senior Security Aide Storekeeper II
57 57 57 57 57 57B	Electro-Medical Equipment Repairer Radio Operator II & Technician Security Assistant (Social Services) Shift Operator (WPCP) Substance Abuse Counselor II Registered Nurse (Institutional)
58 58 58 58 58 58 58 58	Housing Rehabilitation Coordinator Infection Control Nurse Maintenance Mechanic II (Group of Classes) Medical Investigator Park Ranger II Projects Specialist (Hospitals) Sewage System Mechanic II Supervising Groundskeeper
59 59 59	Electronic Equipment Repairer Engineer I (Field) Investigative Aide III (Narcotics)
60 60 60 60 60	Activities Coordinator, Adult Home Community Health Nurse Electrical Inspector Medical Technologist Plumbing Examiner
66
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B - PART B SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION LISTING BY GRADE 40-Hr, Week
Grade Allocation	Title
60 60 60	Principal Engineering Technician Radio Communications Specialist Sewage System Supervisor
61 61 61 61 61 61	Assistant Head Nurse Groundskeeper II (County) Maintenance Supervisor (Group of Classes) Resident Home Site Manager Utilities Plant Foreman Vehicle Control Worker
62 62 62	Dietitian Supervising Operator (WPCP) Utilization Review Assistant
63 63 63 63	Engineering Specialist (Highway) Senior Medical Technologist Supervisor, Alcohol and Substance Abuse Rehabilitation Svcs (Day) Supervisor, Alcohol and Substance Abuse Rehabilitation Svcs (Evening)
64	Head Nurse
65 65	Engineer II (Sewers) (Field) Senior Medical Investigator

67
CSEA SALARY GRADE SCHEDULE 35 HOUR WORK WEEK
	ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B, PART C EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2002								
		$11.51	$11.86	$12.44	$13.00	$13.63	$14.23	$15.00	$15.67
	B $11-51	$11.86	$12.44	$13.00	$13.63	$14.23	$15.00	$15.67	$16.40
	1 $11-86	$12.44	$13.00	$13.63	$14.23	$15.00	$15.67	$16.40	$17.19
	B $12.44	$13.00	$13.63	$14.23	$15.00	$15.67	$16.40	$17.19	$17.97
	B $13.00	$13.63	$14.23	$15.00	$15.67	$16.40	$17.19	$17.97	$18.82
	B $13.63	$14.23	$15.00	$15.67	$16.40	$17.19	$17.97	$18.82	$19.71
	1 $14.23	$15.00	$15.67	$16.40	$17.19	$17.97	$18.82	$19.71	$20.71
	■ $15.00	$15.67	$16.40	$17.19	$17.97	$18.82	$19.71	$20.71	$21.73
	B $15.67	$16.40	$17.19	$17.97	$18.82	$19.71	$20.71	$21.73	$22.74
	B $16.40	$17.19	$17.97	$18.82	$19.71	$20.71	$21.73	$22.74	$23.83
	B $17.19	$17.97	$18.82	$19.71	$20.71	$21.73	$22.74	$23.83	$24.99
	B $17.97	$18.82	$19.71	$20.71	$21.73	$22.74	$23.83	$24.99	$26.09
	B $18.82	$19.71	$20.71	$21.73	$22.74	$23.83	$24.99	$26.09	$27.47
	B $19.71	$20.71	$21.73	$22.74	$23.83	$24.99	$26.09	$27.47	$28.74
	g $20.71	$21.73	$22.74	$23.83	$24.99	$26.09	$27.47	$28.74	$30.13
	1 $21.73	$22.74	$23.83	$24.99	$26.09	$27.47	$28.74	$30.13	$31.62
	B $22.74	$23.83	$24.99	$26.09	$27.47	$28.74	$30.13	$31.62	$33.12
	B $23.83	$24.99	$26.09	$27.47	$28.74	$30.13	$31.62	$33.12	$34.75
	B $24.99	$26.09	$27.47	$28.74	$30.13	$31.62	$33.12	$34.75	$36.49
	B $26.09	$27.47	$28.74	$30.13	$31.62	$33.12	$34.75	$36.49	$38.24
	B $27.47	$28.74	$30.13	$31.62	$33.12	$34.75	$36.49	$38.24	$40.07
	B $28.74	$30.13	$31.62	$33.12	$34.75	$36.49	$38.24	$40.07	$42.07
	B $30.13	$31.62	$33.12	$34.75	$36.49	$38.24	$40.07	$42.07	$44.12
	B $31-62	$33.12	$34.75	$36.49	$38.24	$40.07	$42.07	$44.12	$46.30
	B $33.12	$34.75	$36.49	$38.24	$40.07	$42.07	$44.12	$46.30	$48.55
	B $34.75	$36.49	$38.24	$40.07	$42.07	$44.12	$46.30	$48.55	$51.01
	B $36.49	$38.24	$40.07	$42.07	$44.12 68	$46.30	$48.55	$51.01	$53.55
CSEA SALARY GRADE SCHEDULE 35 HOUR WORK WEEK ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B, PART C EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2003
$11.94 $12.30 $12.91 $13.49	$11.94 $12.30 $12.91 $13.49 $14.14	$12.30 $12.91 $13.49 $14.14 $14.76	$12.91 $13.49 $14.14 $14.76 $15.56	$13.49 $14.14 $14.76 $15.56 $16.26	$14.14 $14.76 $15.56 $16.26 $17.02	$14.76 $15.56 $16.26 $17.02 $17.83	$15.56 $16.26 $17.02 $17.83 $18.64	$16.26 $17.02 $17.83 $18.64 $19.53
$14.14	$14.76	$15.56	$16.26	$17.02	$17.83	$18.64	$19.53	$20.45
$14.76	$15.56	$16.26	$17.02	$17.83	$18.64	$19.53	$20.45	$21.49
$15.56	$16.26	$17.02	$17.83	$18.64	$19.53	$20.45	$21.49	$22.54
$16.26	$17.02	$17.83	$18.64	$19.53	$20.45	$21.49	$22.54	$23.59
$17.02	$17.83	$18.64	$19.53	$20.45	$21.49	$22.54	$23.59	$24.72
$17.83	$18.64	$19.53	$20.45	$21.49	$22.54	$23.59	$24.72	$25.93
$18.64	$19.53	$20.45	$21.49	$22.54	$23.59	$24.72	$25.93	$27.07
$19.53	$20.45	$21.49	$22.54	$23.59	$24.72	$25.93	$27.07	$28.50
$20.45	$21.49	$22.54	$23.59	$24.72	$25.93	$27.07	$28.50	$29.82
$21.49	$22.54	$23.59	$24.72	$25.93	$27.07	$28.50	$29.82	$31.26
$22.54	$23.59	$24.72	$25.93	$27.07	$28.50	$29.82	$31.26	$32.81
$23.59	$24.72	$25.93	$27.07	$28.50	$29.82	$31.26	$32.81	$34.36
$24.72	$25.93	$27.07	$28.50	$29.82	$31.26	$32.81	$34.36	$36.05
$25.93	$27.07	$28.50	$29.82	$31.26	$32.81	$34.36	$36.05	$37.86
$27.07	$28.50	$29.82	$31.26	$32.81	$34.36	$36.05	$37.86	$39.67
$28.50	$29.82	$31.26	$32.81	$34.36	$36.05	$37.86	$39.67	$41.57
$29.82	$31.26	$32.81	$34.36	$36.05	$37.86	$39.67	$41.57	$43.65
$31.26	$32.81	$34.36	$36.05	$37.86	$39.67	$41.57	$43.65	$45.77
$32.81	$34.36	$36.05	$37.86	$39.67	$41.57	$43.65	$45.77	$48.04
$34.36	$36.05	$37.86	$39.67	$41.57	$43.65	$45.77	$48.04	$50.37
$36.05	$37.86	$39.67	$41.57	$43.65	$45.77	$48.04	$50.37	$52.92
$37.86	$39.67	$41.57	$43.65	$45.77 69	$48.04	$50.37	$52.92	$55.56
CSEA SALARY GRADE SCHEDULE 35 HOUR WORK WEEK ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B, PART C EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2004
$12.39 $12.76 $13.39 $14.00	$12.39 $12.76 $13.39 $14.00 $14.67	$12.76 $13.39 $14.00 $14.67 $15.31	$13.39 $14.00 $14.67 $15.31 $16.14	$14.00 $14.67 $15.31 $16.14 $16.87	$14.67 $15.31 $16.14 $16.87 $17.66	$15.31 $16.14 $16.87 $17.66 $18.50	$16.14 $16.87 $17.66 $18.50 $19.34	$16.87 $17.66 $18.50 $19.34 $20.26
$14.67	$15.31	$16.14	$16.87	$17.66	$18.50	$19.34	$20.26	$21.22
$15.31	$16.14	$16.87	$17.66	$18.50	$19.34	$20.26	$21.22	$22.30
$16.14	$16.87	$17.66	$18.50	$19.34	$20.26	$21.22	$22.30	$23.39
$16.87	$17.66	$18.50	$19.34	$20.26	$21.22	$22.30	$23.39	$24.47
$17.66	$18.50	$19.34	$20.26	$21.22	$22.30	$23.39	$24.47	$25.65
$18.50	$19.34	$20.26	$21.22	$22.30	$23.39	$24.47	$25.65	$26.90
$19.34	$20.26	$21.22	$22.30	$23.39	$24.47	$25.65	$26.90	$28.09
$20.26	$21.22	$22.30	$23.39 ,	$24.47	$25.65	$26.90	$28.09	$29.57
$21.22	$22.30	$23.39	$24.47	$25.65	$26.90	$28.09	$29.57	$30.94
$22.30	$23.39	$24.47	$25.65	$26.90	$28.09	$29.57	$30.94	$32.43
$23.39	$24.47	$25.65	$26.90	$28.09	$29.57	$30.94	$32.43	$34.04
$24.47	$25.65	$26.90	$28.09	$29.57	$30.94	$32.43	$34.04	$35.65
$25.65	$26.90	$28.09	$29.57	$30.94	$32.43	$34.04	$35.65	$37.40
$26.90	$28.09	$29.57	$30.94	$32.43	$34.04	$35.65	$37.40	$39.28
$28.09	$29.57	$30.94	$32.43	$34.04	$35.65	$37.40	$39.28	$41.16
$29.57	$30.94	$32.43	$34.04	$35.65	$37.40	$39.28	$41.16	$43.13
$30.94	$32.43	$34.04	$35.65	$37.40	$39.28	$41.16	$43.13	$45.29
$32.43	$34.04	$35.65	$37.40	$39.28	$41.16	$43.13	$45.29	$47.49
$34.04	$35.65	$37.40	$39.28	$41.16	$43.13	$45.29	$47.49	$49.84
$35.65	$37.40	$39.28	$41.16	$43.13	$45.29	$47.49	$49.84	$52.26
$37.40	$39.28	$41.16	$43.13	$45.29	$47.49	$49.84	$52.26	$54.90
$39.28	$41.16	$43.13	$45.29	$47.49 70	$49.84	$52.26	$54.90	$57.64
CSEA SALARY GRADE SCHEDULE
40 HOUR WORK WEEK ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B, PART C
			EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2002					
	$10.14	$10.36	$10.91	$11.36	$11.97	$12.45	$13.11	$13.63
[ $10.14	$10.36	$10.91	$11.36	$11.97	$12.45	$13.11	$13.63	$14.30
| $10.36	$10.91	$11.36	$11.97	$12.45	$13.11	$13.63	$14.30	$15.09
$10.91	$11.36	$11.97	$12.45	$13.11	$13.63	$14.30	$15.09	$15.74
| $11.36	$11.97	$12.45	$13.11	$13.63	$14.30	$15.09	$15.74	$16.46
i $11.97	$12.45	$13.11	$13.63	$14.30	$15.09	$15.74	$16.46	$17.23
! $12.45	$13.11	$13.63	$14.30	$15.09	$15.74	$16.46	$17.23	$18.13
$13.11	$13.63	$14.30	$15.09	$15.74	$16.46	$17.23	$18.13	$19.03
$13.63	$14.30	$15.09	$15.74	$16.46	$17.23	$18.13	$19.03	$19.92
[ $14.30	$15.09	$15.74	$16.46	$17.23	$18.13	$19.03	$19.92	$20.85
I $15.09	$15.74	$16.46	$17.23	$18.13	$19.03	$19.92	$20.85	$21.90
| $15.74	$16.46	$17.23	$18.13	$19.03	$19.92	$20.85	$21.90	$22.92
$16.46	$17.23	$18.13	$19.03	$19.92	$20.85	$21.90	$22.92	$23.96
$17.23	$18.13	$19.03	$19.92	$20.85	$21.90	$22.92	$23.96	$25.13
$18.13	$19.03	$19.92	$20.85	$21.90	$22.92	$23.96	$25.13	$26.41
$19.03	$19.92	$20.85	$21.90	$22.92	$23.96	$25.13	$26.41	$27.73
I $19.92	$20.85	$21.90	$22.92	$23.96	$25.13	$26.41	$27.73	$29.02
| $20.85	$21.90	$22.92	$23.96	$25.13	$26.41	$27.73	$29.02	$30.44
| $21.90	$22.92	$23.96	$25.13	$26.41	$27.73	$29.02	$30.44	$31.93
$22.92	$23.96	$25.13	$26.41	$27.73	$29.02	$30.44	$31.93	$33.42
| $23.96	$25.13	$26.41	$27.73	$29.02	$30.44	$31.93	$33.42	$35.05
$25.13	$26.41	$27.73	$29.02	$30.44	$31.93	$33.42	$35.05	$36.78
$26.41	$27.73	$29.02	$30.44	$31.93	$33.42	$35.05	$36.78	$38.56
1 $27.73	$29.02	$30.44	$31.93	$33.42	$35.05	$36.78	$38.56	$40.52
| $29.02	$30.44	$31.93	$33.42	$35.05	$36.78	$38.56	$40.52	$42.55
| $30.44	$31.93	$33.42	$35.05	$36.78	$38.56	$40.52	$42.55	$44.62
I $31.93	$33.42	$35.05	$36.78	$38.56	$40.52	$42.55	$44.62	$46.79
71
CSEA SALARY GRADE SCHEDULE 40 HOUR WORK WEEK ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B, PART C EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1. 2003
$10.52 $10.75 $11.32 $11.79	$10.52 $10.75 $11.32 $11.79 $12.42	$10.75 $11.32 $11.79 $12.42 $12.92	$11.32 $11.79 $12.42 $12.92 $13.60	$11.79 $12.42 $12.92 $13.60 $14.14	$12.42 $12.92 $13.60 $14.14 $14.84	$12.92 $13.60 $14.14 $14.84 $15.66	$13.60 $14.14 $14.84 $15.66 $16.33	$14.14 $14.84 $15.66 $16.33 $17.08
$12.42	$12.92	$13.60	$14.14	$14.84	$15.66	$16.33	$17.08	$17.88
$12.92	$13.60	$14.14	$14.84	$15.66	$16.33	$17.08	$17.88	$18.81
$13.60	$14.14	$14.84	$15.66	$16.33	$17.08	$17.88	$18.81	$19.74
$14.14	$14.84	$15.66	$16.33	$17.08	$17.88	$18.81	$19.74	$20.67
$14.84	$15.66	$16.33	$17.08	$17.88	$18.81	$19.74	$20.67	$21.63
$15.66	$16.33	$17.08	$17.88	$18.81	$19.74	$20.67	$21.63	$22.72
$16.33	$17.08	$17.88	$18.81	$19.74	$20.67	$21.63	$22.72	$23.78
$17.08	$17.88	$18.81	$19.74	$20.67	$21.63	$22.72	$23.78	$24.86
$17.88	$18.81	$19.74	$20.67	$21.63	$22.72	$23.78	$24.86	$26.07
$18.81	$19.74	$20.67	$21.63	$22.72	$23.78	$24.86	$26.07	$27.40
$19.74	$20.67	$21.63	$22.72	$23.78	$24.86	$26.07	$27.40	$28.77
$20.67	$21.63	$22.72	$23.78	$24.86	$26.07	$27.40	$28.77	$30.11
$21.63	$22.72	$23.78	$24.86	$26.07	$27.40	$28.77	$30.11	$31.58
$22.72	$23.78	$24.86	$26.07	$27.40	$28.77	$30.11	$31.58	$33.13
$23.78	$24.86	$26.07	$27.40	$28.77	$30.11	$31.58	$33.13	$34.67
$24.86	$26.07	$27.40	$28.77	$30.11	$31.58	$33.13	$34.67	$36.36
$26.07	$27.40	$28.77	$30.11	$31.58	$33.13	$34.67	$36.36	$38.16
$27.40	$28.77	$30.11	$31.58	$33.13	$34.67	$36.36	$38.16	$40.01
$28.77	$30.11	$31.58	$33.13	$34.67	$36.36	$38.16	$40.01	$42.04
$30.11	$31.58	$33.13	$34.67	$36.36	$38.16	$40.01	$42.04	$44.15
$31.58	$33.13	$34.67	$36.36	$38.16	$40.01	$42.04	$44.15	$46.29
$33.13	$34.67	$36.36	$38.16	$40.01 72	$42.04	$44.15	$46.29	$48.54
CSEA SALARY GRADE SCHEDULE 40 HOUR WORK WEEK ARTICLE VIII, APPENDIX B, PART C EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2004
$10.91 $11.15 $11.74 $12.23	$10.91 $11.15 $11.74 $12.23 $12.89	$11.15 $11.74 $12.23 $12.89 $13.40	$11.74 $12.23 $12.89 $13.40 $14.11	$12.23 $12.89 $13.40 $14.11 $14.67	$12.89 $13.40 $14.11 $14.67 $15.40	$13.40 $14.11 $14.67 $15.40 $16.25	$14.11 $14.67 $15.40 $16.25 $16.94	$14.67 $15.40 $16.25 $16.94 $17.72
$12.89	$13.40	$14.11	$14.67	$15.40	$16.25	$16.94	$17.72	$18.55
$13.40	$14.11	$14.67	$15.40	$16.25	$16.94	$17.72	$18.55	$19.52
$14.11	$14.67	$15.40	$16.25	$16.94	$17.72	$18.55	$19.52	$20.48
$14.67	$15.40	$16.25	$16.94	$17.72	$18.55	$19.52	$20.48	$21.45
$15.40	$16.25	$16.94	$17.72	$18.55	$19.52	$20.48	$21.45	$22.44
$16.25	$16.94	$17.72	$18.55	$19.52	$20.48	$21.45	$22.44	$23.57
$16.94	$17.72	$18.55	$19.52	$20.48	$21.45	$22.44	$23.57	$24.67
$17.72	$18.55	$19.52	$20.48	$21.45	$22.44	$23.57	$24.67	$25.79
$18.55	$19.52	$20.48	$21.45	$22.44	$23.57	$24.67	$25.79	$27.05
$19.52	$20.48	$21.45	$22.44	$23.57	$24.67	$25.79	$27.05	$28.43
$20.48	$21.45	$22.44	$23.57	$24.67	$25.79	$27.05	$28.43	$29.85
$21.45	$22.44	$23.57	$24.67	$25.79	$27.05	$28.43	$29.85	$31.24
$22.44	$23.57	$24.67	$25.79	$27.05	$28.43	$29.85	$31.24	$32.76
$23.57	$24.67	$25.79	$27.05	$28.43	$29.85	$31.24	$32.76	$34.37
$24.67	$25.79	$27.05	$28.43	$29.85	$31.24	$32.76	$34.37	$35.97
$25.79	$27.05	$28.43	$29.85	$31.24	$32.76	$34.37	$35.97	$37.72
$27.05	$28.43	$29.85	$31.24	$32.76	$34.37	$35.97	$37.72	$39.59
$28.43	$29.85	$31.24	$32.76	$34.37	$35.97	$37.72	$39.59	$41.51
$29.85	$31.24	$32.76	$34.37	$35.97	$37.72	$39.59	$41.51	$43.62
$31.24	$32.76	$34.37	$35.97	$37.72	$39.59	$41.51	$43.62	$45.81
$32.76	$34.37	$35.97	$37.72	$39.59	$41.51	$43.62	$45.81	$48.03
$34.37	$35.97	$37.72	$39.59	$41.51 73	$43.62	$45.81	$48.03	$50.36
ARTICLE XIV - APPENDIX C
SICK LEAVE BANK
Sick Leave Bank (SLB) shall be established to provide income protection in the event a participant's accumulated leave has been exhausted as a result of catastrophic long-term illness or catastrophic injury.
1- Definitions
Eligible CSEA Member	Any member of the bargaining unit pursuant to Article I, Section 2, who has been in county employ for at least one year.
Committee	The group of individuals appointed to administer the SLB, as hereinafter provided.
Participant	Any member of the bargaining unit who has been approved by the Committee.
Benefit Leave	A withdrawal from the SLB of leave days granted by the Committee.
SLB Request	A form approved by the Committee for Participants to sign when applying for Benefit Leave.
2. Composition and Responsibilities of Committee:
The Committee shall:
• a. Consist of four (4) CSEA members appointed by the Association and two (2) representatives to be appointed by the County Executive. The methods of selection, terms of office, and other similar issues shall, with respect to each such individual, be determined by, and shall be the responsibility of, the party appointing such individual.
b.	Prepare SLB Request Forms, arrange for the duplication and distribution thereof so as to assure their availability to all who are entitled to receive them.
c.	Take all appropriate steps as are reasonable in order facilitate enrollment in the SLB.
d.	Establish procedures for the maintenance of appropriate records with respect to the SLB in
conjunction with the appropriate County agencies, including, but not limited to, the Department of Finance, the Management and Information Services Division of the Department of General Services, and the Department of Personnel.
e.	Review and pass upon all SLB requests submitted to it. All applications approved by the Committee shall be forwarded promptly to the individual department head for immediate processing. The approved request shall also be forwarded to the Department of Personnel. Any disapproval shall be returned promptly to the applicant, together with an explanation for such disapproval.
3.	Contributions
a.	The initial contribution required of each eligible member shall be either seven (7) or eight (8) hours as appropriate to the member's standard work day. Members who are employed on a less than full-time basis or part-time basis shall contribute hours on a pro rata basis (for example, a half-time employee working in what would otherwise be a 35 hour per week position would contribute 3 Vz hours; a half-time employee working in what would otherwise be a 40 hour per week position would contribute 4 hours.) These hours will be transferred from the individual's accrual and credited to the SLB.
74
ARTICLE XIV - APPENDIX C
SICK LEAVE BANK
b.	When each previously eligible employee reaches eligible member status, appropriate hoursc will be transferred as set forth in sub-paragraph a.
c.	An additional contribution of the appropriate hours as set forth in sub-paragraph a. shall be required of each eligible CSEA member whenever the total number of hours in the SLB falls below 4000.
4.	Withdrawals
a.	Application for Withdrawals shall be made by a participant at least ten (10) work days before his or her accumulated leave is exhausted. If approved, compensation will be retroactive to the expiration of accumulated leave.
b.	Withdrawals may only be made in connection with a catastrophic long-term illness, or catastrophic injury, of a participant. The Sick Leave Bank shall not be utilized for illness or injury of another member of participant's family or for time taken by participant to assist such other family member, nor shall it cover days for which participant is receiving any Worker's Compensation benefits.
c.	Should a participant be unable to do so, a member of participant's family or an agent may prepare and file a Sick Leave Withdrawal Request on participant's behalf.
d.	The employee must submit current medical reports, no more than one (1) month old, on the nature of the illness or disability. The reports must give the diagnosis, course of treatment, and a prognosis, including when the employee may return to work.
e.	Should the Committee so request, either before or after approval of a Sick Leave Withdrawal Request, the participant shall be required to undergo a medical examination by a participating provider physician of the Committee's choice. Failure to comply with such a request shall result in disapproval or cancellation of any prior approval.
f.	The Committee shall not grant a Withdrawal of more than thirty (30) work days for any one participant at any one (1) time. Additional leave days may be granted to a participant after any thirty (30) day grant only on request to, and after review by, the Committee and compliance with any reasonable requirements requested by the Committee. The maximum lifetime benefit available to any participant In the SLB shall be one hundred and eighty (180) days.
g.	Employees who borrow such hours from SLB will be required to repay such hours at the rate of one (1) hour per pay period, until totally repaid.
h.	All decisions of the Committee are final, binding and nongrievabie.
i.	Any balance in the SLB on December 31st of each year shall be carried over to the SLB for the following year.
5.	Termination
A member's right to participate in the SLB shall cease upon termination of participant's Employment by the County within the bargaining unit.
75
ARTICLE XX - APPENDIX D
MILEAGE CHARTS FOR COMPUTING TRAVEL TIME
To measure mileage from an employee's normal work location to a temporary work/training location, a. Select the appropriate normal Rockland worksite from List A and note the mileage from that location to New City (e.g., Spring Valley = 6 miles).
b.	Select the appropriate temporary training/work location from List B and note the mileage from New City to that point (e.g., Kingston = 76 miles).
c.	Add the mileage from the two lists (6 plus 76 = 82 miles).
d.	Divide by 60 miles (e.g., 82 miles divided by 60 = 1.37 hours).
List A:	CSEA COUNTY OF ROCKLAND WORKSITE MILEAGE CHART
List B:	GARNERVILLE	7 HAVERSTRAW	5 MONSEY	5 NYACK	9 ORANGEBURG	10 POMONA/HEALTH COMPLEX	4 SPRING VALLEY	6 SUFFERN/RCC	9 MILEAGE FROM NEW CITY TO POINTS IN NORTHEAST
	ALBANY, NY	126
	BOSTON, MA	205 CARMEL, NY	38 COLONIE, NY	132 GOSHEN, NY	42* HASBROUCK HEIGHTS, NJ 1	23 KIAMESHA LAKE, NY	73 KINGSTON, NY	76 LONG ISLAND, NY (Mineola/Garden City) 60 MONTOUR FALLS, NY	242 NEW PALTZ, NY	60 NEW YORK CITY, NY	31 NEWARK, NJ	37 NEWBURGH, NY	46* PHILADELPHIA, PA	121 POUGHKEEPSIE, NY	65* ROCHESTER, NY	348 SARATOGA SPRINGS, NY	160 SYRACUSE, NY	268* TARRYTOWN, NY	13 TROY, NY	133 TUXEDO PARK/STERUNG FOREST	23 WHITE PLAINS, NY	18
* Via New York State Thruway
76
ARTICLE XVI - APPENDIX E: OPTICAL RATE SHEET
FJH 15:1.1 FAX 18145J11117	C.S.BA.
Wt. t« ' #1 WON) I4i J»	CSEA	5t« MJ ’34
»*C», 2Z3
14)004
I
TO:	LARRY SPARSER, IJVBOR^LAra^SSPECIAIJST
FROM:	PATRICK RWAN, MARffiKp^^rCOMMUNJCATIONS MANAGER
DATE:	MAYU, 2001
RE:	VISION RATES 7/1/2004 TO 6Z3O/O5-ROCKLAND COUNTY
To tbllow-uponyour conversations withSr.P^RepresantatlveColleen Foley regarding
Vision Prenuumsfor Rockland County, the ibtow&^Con^oriteRaies are applicable:
Platinum 12	ProgreeaiveAdd.	Combined Total
Monthly Annual	Monthly Annual	Monthly Annual
7/MJ1-«3®p2	$1S.5B	$186.06	>47	^04	S15.75	S1S9.00
7/m.dWG	SI&Q5	SIKL0	$47	&&	W&,	SI94.64
7AAB-O0O4	S1&S3	$19S.3$	$47	M70	$200.40
7/1/04$16.86 $202.32	$.10	$17.05	$204.60
premiums.
sof
77
INDEX
Subject	Page #
Abandonment of Position...................................................................... 5
Accrual Report.............................................................................. 25
Adverse Material........................................................................  27,28
Agency Shop.................................................................................. 6
Anniversary Date (Definition)............................................................... 23
Annual Increments........................................................................ 37,40
Appointing Authority (Definition) .......................................................... 24
Arbitrator Expenses....................................................................... 5,33
Arbitrator Selection........................................................................ 33
Basic Work Period........................................................................... 10
Basic Work Week........................................................................... 9-10
Bereavement Leave........................................................................... 20
Breaks...................................................................................... 25
Bulletin Board..........................................................................     24
Bumping..................................................................................... 29
Call-in Pay................................................................................. 12
Child Rearing Leave......................................................................... 20
Civil Service Examination Leave.........................................................     18
Clean Up Period...........................................................................   26
Compensatory Time........................................................................... 12
Continuous Service (Definition)............................................................. 23
Court Attendance........................................................................     18
Day of Rest (Definition) ................................................................... 23
Deductions................................................................................. 6-7
Definitions.............................................................................. 23-24
Definitions (Grievance & Disciplinary Procedure) ........................................ 34-35
Demotion.................................................................................... 39
Dental Insurance............................................................................ 21
Deputy Duties............................................................................... 41
Disciplinary Procedure.............................................................   4,5,23,31
Dues Deduction............................................................................... 6
Educational Leave........................................................................... 18
Effective Date of Agreement................................................................. 30
Emergency (Definition) ..................................................................... 24
Employee (Definition) ................................................................... 23,34
Evaluations, Performance.................................................................... 28
Extended Sick Leave......................................................................... 17
FMLA (Family Medical Leave Act)............................................................. 20
General Provisions.......................................................................... 24
Grade Allocations...................................................................   37,42-67
Grievance and Disciplinary Procedure................................................. 4,5,23,31
Health Insurance..........................................................................   20
Lag for New Hires......................................................................... 22
New Hire Contribution..................................................................... 22
HMD.......................................................................................   21
78
Subject
Page #
Holidays................................................................................ 13-14
Hours of Work........................................................................... 10-11
Increments............................................................................... 37,40	'
Insubordination............................................................................ 24
Job Postings..............................................................................  26
Jury Duty.................................................................................. 18
Labor Management Committee...............................................................  5-6
Leave (Definition)......................................................................... 23
Leave Credits........................................................................ 13-20,25
Leave of Absence with Pay............................................................... 13-20
Leave of Absence without	Pay............................................................... 20
Legislative Approval....................................................................... 30
Longevity Increments................................................................. 36-37,40
Maternity Leave..........................................................................   20
Meal Allowance............................................................................. 25
Meal Provisions............................................................................ 25
Medical Insurance......................................................................  20-22
Lag for New Hires........................................................................ 22
New Hire Contribution.................................................................... 22
Mileage Allowance.........................................................................  25
Mileage Chart.............................................................................. 76
Military Leave............................................................................. 18
Negotiating Committee....................................................................... 4
No Strike Pledge............................................................................ 1
Nursing Practices Committee................................................................ 27
Optical Plan............................................................................ 21,77
Overtime............................................................................. 11,12,13
Part-Time.........................................................................     2,13,21
Parties to Agreement........................................................................ 1
Pay Equity Study...........................................................................  9
Paycheck Distribution...................................................................... 26
Performance Evaluations.................................................................... 28
Personal Leave............................................................................. 17
Personnel File......................................................................   5,27-28
Position Allocation List..............................................................   42-67
Postings................................................................................... 26
Promotion (Definition) .................................................................... 23
Promotion.................................................................................. 39
Reallocation........................................................................... 7-8,37
Reappointment.............................................................................. 39
Recall...............................................................................    29-30
Reclassification...................................................................   26,37-38
Recognition................................................................................. 1
Reduction in Force ..................................................................... 28-29
79
Subject
Page #
Reinstatements.......................................................................... 39-40
Representative (Definition)............................................................. 23,34
Reprimand..............................................................................   5,28
Responsibility of Employer.................................................................. 3
Responsibility of Employees & the Union.................................................     3
Rest Breaks................................................................................ 25
Rest Periods............................................................................... 25
Retirement (NYSRS) ...................................................................   22-23
Retreat.................................................................................... 29
Retroactivity.............................................................................. 30
Salary Grade Allocations..............................................................   42-67
Salary Grade Schedules.................................................................. 68-73
Salary Plan............................................................................ 7-9,36
Scope of Agreement.......................................................................... 2
Seniority (Definition) .................................................................... 24
Seniority............................................................................ 11,28-29
Shift Assignments........................................................................   11
Shift Differential.......................................................................... 9
Shop Stewards (Representatives)............................................................. 4
Sick Leave.............................................................................. 15-17
Sick Leave Bank......................................................................... 17,74
Split Shift................................................................................ 11
Snow Emergency............................................................................. 26
Stand By Time.............................................................................. 13
Transfers.....................................................................     15,16,39-40
Travel Time..............................................................................   28
Tuition Reimbursement..................................................................     27
Uniforms................................................................................... 25
Union Activities......................................................................     3,4
Union Representatives..................................................................... 3,4
Unit Definition........................................................................... 1-2
Vacation..............................................................................   14-15
Vision Plan ...................................................................          21,77
Workday - Workweek................................................................     9,10,12
Workers Compensation (Wage Continuation Plan-Work Related) ............................. 18-19
Working Environment........................................................................ 24
80