Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Alameda, County of and Service Employees International Union (SEIU), AFL-CIO, Hospital and Health Care Workers Union Local 250, Social Services Union Local 535, United Services Employees Local 616 (2000) (MOA)
K#: 820793
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
I $7o I
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 250, SEIU SOCIAL SERVICES UNION, LOCAL 535, SEIU
UNITED SERVICE EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 616, SEIU
AND / pf
THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
June 25,2000-July 5,2003
□ □


MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 2000-2003 BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA AND HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE WORKERS UNION LOCAL 250 SEIU, SOCIAL SERVICES UNION LOCAL 535 SEIU, AND UNITED SERVICE EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 616 SEIU
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Section 1.	Recognition........................................................ 1
Section 2.	No Discrimination...................................................2
Section 3.	Union Security......................................................2
Section 4.	Union Bulletin Board, Meetings and Access to Employees..............4
Section 5.	Shop stewards.......................................................5
Section 6.	Hours of Work, Shifts, Schedules	and Rest Periods...................7
Section 7.	Overtime............................................................9
Sections.	Leaves of Absence..................................................14
Section 9.	Holidays...........................................................19
Section 10.	Vacation Leave.....................................................23
Section 11.	Sick Leave.........................................................28
Section 12.	Premium Conditions.................................................33
Section 13.	Special Performance Pay............................................34
Section 14.	Health and Dental Plans..........................................  35
Section 15.	Allowance for Use of Private Automobiles...........................39
Section 16.	Wages..............................................................40
Section 17.	Two Week's Notice Upon Termination.................................43
Section 18.	Affirmative Action Committee.......................................44
Section 19.	Safety.............................................................44
Section 20.	Grievance Procedure................................................45
-I-
Page No.
Section 21.	Disability Insurance Benefits........................................47
Section 22.	Social Services Agency Caseloads.................................... 49
Section 23.	Notice of Layoffs....................................................49
Section 24.	Effect of Mandated Fringe Benefits...................................49
Section 25.	Educational Stipend................................................. 50
Section 26.	Uniform Allowances...................................................50
Section 27.	Agency/Department Head...............................................51
Section 28.	Transfer Hot Line....................................................51
Section 29.	Life Insurance.....................................................  51
Section 30.	Catastrophic Sick Leave Program......................................52
Section 31.	Vision Reimbursement Plan........................................... 53
Section 32.	Long-Term Disability Insurance	Policy................................53
Section 33.	Savings Clause...................................................... 53
Section 34.	Enactment............................................................53
Section 35.	No Strike, No Lockout................................................53
Section 36.	Scope of Agreement...................................................53
Section 37.	Term of Memorandum...................................................54
Appendix A:	Listing of All Job Classes and Their Salaries........................56
Appendix B:	Intermittent and Services-As-Needed Classifications.................122
Appendix C:	Agency Shop Confidential Exclusions.................................123
Appendix D:	Part-time and Services-As-Needed Registered Nurses..................124
Appendix E:	Domestic Partner Defined............................................125
Appendix F:	Flood Control & Water Conservation District Zone 7..................126
Subject Index ....................................................................127
Sideletters of Agreement..........................................................133
-ii-
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 2000 - 2003 BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
•	AND
HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 250, SEIU
SOCIAL SERVICES UNION, LOCAL 535, SEIU, AND UNITED SERVICE EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 616, SEIU
THIS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING is entered into by the Director of Human Resource Services of the County of Alameda, said political subdivision hereafter designated as "County", and Hospital and Health Care Workers Union Local 250, Social Services Union Local 535, and United Services Employees Local 616 of the Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO, hereafter designated as "Union", as a recommendation to the Board of Supervisors of the County of Alameda of those conditions of employment which are to be in effect from June 25, 2000 to and including July 5, 2003 for those employees working in representation units referred to in Section 1 hereof.
MUTUAL RESPECT. The County and the Union agree that all employees regardless of position, profession, or rank will treat each other with courtesy, dignity, and respect. The foregoing principles shall also apply in providing services to the public.
SECTION 1.	RECOGNITION
A.	The County recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for the following employees:
1.	All full-time employees in classifications included in Bargaining Units III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, X, XI, and XII, as specifically enumerated in the appendices attached hereto;
2.	All part-time employees in classifications included in Bargaining Units III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, X, XI, and XII, as referenced above, who are regularly scheduled to work two-fifths or more time per pay period; and,
3.	All services-as-needed employees included in classifications included in Bargaining Units III, IV, VII, VIII, X, XI, and XII, as specifically enumerated in the appendices attached hereto, who are regularly scheduled to work two-fifths time or more per pay period.
The County shall recognize the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for employees in any other classification which may be established substantially within the scope of the duties now included within the above-referenced classifications. On an as needed basis or not less than twice annually, in the months of May and November, representatives of the County and Union shall meet for the purpose of assigning any other newly created Civil Service classifications to the appropriate bargaining units. Such placement shall be by mutual consent. In case of disagreement, an arbitrator shall decide the matter.
B.	In disputes between the County and the Union over the assignment of newly created Civil Service classifications to appropriate bargaining units, the arbitrator shall decide the matter on the following basis:
1.	The arbitrator shall reject any claim by the Union to any newly created classification whose duties are substantially within the scope of (a) management designated classifications; e.g., project specialists, management specialists, administrative interns or other administrative classifications or (b) classifications represented by other employee organizations.
2.	The arbitrator shall reject any claim of the Union to any newly created classification occupied exclusively by employees who work less than two-fifths time.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-1-
SECTION 1.-contd.
3.	The arbitrator shall determine any dispute over whether or not the scope of duties of a newly created classification is substantially within the scope of duties now included within an SEIU represented classification or if a newly created classification is without clear recent precedent in the County service, whether or not the duties of such classification are, in general character, similar to those within SEIU represented units provided, however, that the arbitrator shall have no power to assign a supervisory classification, as defined in the National Labor Relations Act, to a nonsupervisory bargaining unit represented by the Union. In case of an arbitration involving classifications without clear recent precedent in the County service, the arbitrator shall receive as relevant evidence the views of affected employees.
4.	In the resolution of disputes arising from this Section 1, the parties agree on the selection of a permanent arbitrator for each fiscal year from a panel of no less than five arbitrators. In case of disagreement on the selection of the five member panel or the selection of the arbitrator, the provisions of Section 20.H. of the Memorandum of Understanding shall apply.
SECTION 2.	NO DISCRIMINATION
A.	DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED. No person shall be appointed, reduced or removed, or in any way favored or discriminated against because of his/her political or religious opinions or affiliations or because of racial or national origin, sexual orientation, and to the extent prohibited by law, no person shall be discriminated against because of age, sex physical disability, mental or psychological disabilities.
B.	NO DISCRIMINATION ON ACCOUNT OF UNION ACTIVITY. Neither County nor employee organizations shall interfere with, intimidate, restrain, coerce, or discriminate against employees because of the exercise of rights to engage in Union activity.
SECTION 3.	UNION SECURITY
A.	NOTICE OF RECOGNIZED UNION. Each county department or agency shall post within the employee work or rest area a written notice which sets forth the classifications included within each representation unit referred to in Section 1 hereof and which includes any classification existing in the department or agency, and the name and address of the recognized employee organization for each such unit. The department or agency shall also give a written notice to persons newly employed in representation unit classifications which notice shall contain the name and address of the employee organization recognized for such unit; the fact that the Union is the exclusive bargaining representative for the employee's unit and classification; and a copy of the current Memorandum of Understanding to be supplied by the Union. Each union shall receive from the County on a flow basis, but at least once biweekly, the names and addresses of all new employees hired within such units. The Union agrees that it has a duty to provide fair and non-discriminatory representation to all employees in all classes of the units for which this Section is applicable provided the employee pays Union dues, a service fee or a charitable contribution.
B.	AGENCY SHOP
1.	AGENCY SHOP. Except as provided otherwise in this Section, employees in representation units referred to in Section 1 hereof, shall, as a condition of continuing employment, become and remain members of the Union or shall pay to the Union a service fee in lieu thereof. Such service fee shall be ninety eight percent of Union dues and initiation fees (hereinafter collectively termed "service fee") of the Union representing the employee's classification and representation unit. Initiation fees shall not exceed a total of One Hundred Dollars.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-2-
SECTION 3.-contd.
2.	IMPLEMENTATION. Any employee hired by the County subject to this Memorandum of Understanding shall be provided through the employee's department or agency with a notice advising that the County has entered into an Agency Shop agreement with the Union and that all employees subject to the Memorandum of Understanding must either join the Union, pay a service fee to the Union, or execute a written declaration claiming a religious exemption from this requirement. Such notice shall include a form for the employee's signature authorizing payroll deduction of Union dues or a service fee. Said employee shall have five working days following the initial date of employment to fully execute the authorization form of his/her choice and return said form to Agency/Department Payroll. If the form is not completed properly and returned within five working days, the County Auditor shall commence and continue a payroll deduction of service fees from the regular biweekly pay warrants of such employee. The effective date of Union dues, service fee deductions or charitable contribution for such employees shall be the beginning of the first pay period of employment except that initiation fees shall be deducted in up to four equal installments in successive pay periods, beginning with the first pay period.
Membership in an SEIU local union other than the Union recognized for the employee's representation unit and classification is permissible but will not affect the employee's obligation to become and remain a member of the Union representing his/her unit and classification or to pay a service fee in lieu of such membership to such union.
The employee's earnings must be sufficient after other legal and required deductions are made to cover the amount of the dues or service fees checkoff authorized. When an employee is in a non-pay status for an entire pay period, no withholding will be made to cover the pay period from future earnings. In the case of an employee who is in a non-pay status during only part of the pay period, and the salary is not sufficient to cover the full withholding, no deduction shall be made. In this connection, all other legal and required deductions (including health care deductions) have priority over union dues and service fees.
3.	RELIGIOUS EXEMPTION. Any employee of the County subject to this Memorandum of Understanding who is a member of a bona fide religion, body or sect which has historically held conscientious objections to joining or financially supporting a public employee organization and which is recognized as such by the National Labor Relations Board, shall, upon presentation of verification of active membership in such religion, body or sect be permitted to make a charitable contribution equal to the service fee in lieu of Union membership or service fee payment. Declarations of or applications for religious exemption and any supporting documentation shall be forwarded to the appropriate local union within fifteen days of receipt by the County. The Union shall have fifteen days after receipt of a request for religious exemption to challenge any exemption granted by the County Administrator or his/her designee. If challenged, the deduction to the charity of the employee's choice shall commence but shall be held in escrow pending resolution of the challenge. Charitable contributions shall be by regular payroll deduction only. For purposes of this Section charitable deduction means a contribution to the Women's Refuge, the Emergency Shelter program or the Emergency Food Bank Network.
4.	EXCLUSION OF EMPLOYEES. The Agency Shop provisions set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 herein shall not apply to persons occupying positions designated as management, supervisory or confidential, nor to persons not in the classified civil service. The County may designate positions as confidential in accordance with Administrative Code Section 3.04.020. Those positions designated as confidential upon implementation of this Section, as set forth in Appendix C of this Memorandum of Understanding, shall not be precedent-setting for future designations of confidential positions. If any position designated confidential after the effective date of this Agency Shop provision is disputed by the Union, the matter shall be decided by an arbitrator.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-3-
SECTION 3. -contd.
5.	FINANCIAL REPORTS. Hospital and Health Care Workers Union, Local 250, and Social Services Union, Local 535, shall individually submit copies of the financial report required pursuant to the Labor-Management Disclosure Act of 1959 to the County Administrator once annually. United Services Employees, Local 616, shall submit a financial report patterned after the financial report required pursuant to the Labor-Management Disclosure Act of 1959 or pursuant to Section 3546.5 of the California Government Code, to the County Administrator once annually. Copies of such reports shall be available to employees subject to the Agency Shop requirements of this Section at the offices of the Union.
Failure to file such a report within 100 days of the close of each Union's fiscal year shall result in the termination of all agency fee deductions without jeopardy to any employee, until said report is filed.
6.	PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS AND PAYOVER. The County shall deduct Union dues or service fees and premiums for approved insurance programs from employee's pay in conformity with State and County regulations. The County shall promptly pay over to the designated payee all sums so deducted. The County shall also periodically provide a list of all persons making charitable deductions pursuant to a religious exemption granted herein.
7.	HOLD HARMLESS. Unions shall indemnify and hold the County, its officers and employees, harmless from any and all claims, demands, suits, or any other action arising from the Agency Shop provisions herein. In no event shall the County be required to pay from its own funds, Union dues, service fees or charitable contributions, which the employee was obligated to pay, but failed to pay, regardless of the reasons.
8.	SUSPENSION OF AGENCY FEES. For the duration of any strike, sanctioned, called or supported by Union, County may suspend collection of Agency service fees without jeopardy to the employee.
9.	WAIVER OF ELECTION FOR NEWLY-REPRESENTED EMPLOYEES AND NEW REPRESENTATION UNITS. The accretion of classifications and/or employees to the representation units set forth in Section 1 of this Memorandum of Understanding shall not require an election herein for the application of this Agency Shop provision to such classifications and/or employees. The recognition of newly-established bargaining units and the inclusion of same within Section 1 of this Memorandum of Understanding shall also not require an election herein for the application of this Agency Shop provision to such units.
SECTION 4.	UNION BULLETIN BOARD, MEETINGS AND ACCESS TO EMPLOYEES
A.	BULLETIN BOARDS. Reasonable space shall be allowed on bulletin boards as specified by Agency/Department Heads for use by employees and Union to communicate with agency/depaftmental employees. Material shall be posted upon the bulletin board space as designated, and not upon walls, doors, file cabinets or any other place. Posted material shall not be obscene, defamatory, or of a partisan political nature, nor shall it pertain to public issues which do not involve the County or its relations with County employees. All posted material shall bear the identity of the sponsor, shall be neatly displayed, and shall be removed when no longer timely. Where an Agency/Department policy permits an employee to post materials in their workplace for their personal convenience, union materials shall be treated on the same basis with other materials so posted.
B.	USE OF COUNTY FACILITIES. County facilities may be made available upon timely application for use by off-duty employees and the Union. Application for such use shall be made to the management person under whose control the facility is placed.
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-4-
SECTION 4. -contd.
C.	JOB CONTACTS. Any authorized representative of Union shall have the right to contact individual employees working within the representation unit represented by his/her organization in County facilities during business hours on matters within the scope of representation providing prior arrangements have been made for each such contact with the Agency/Department Head who shall grant permission for such contact, if, in his/her judgment, it will not disrupt the business of the work unit involved. When contact on the work location is precluded by confidentiality of records, or of work situation, health and safety of employees or the public, or by disturbance to others, the Agency/Department Head shall make other arrangements for a contact location removed from the work area during the same workday or the following workday.
D.	MEETINGS. Meetings of a representative of a recognized employee organization and a group of employees shall not be permitted during working hours, except as provided herein or in Section 20. The Agency/Department Head may, upon timely application, allow meetings of a representative and/or a steward of a recognized employee organization and a group of employees during the lunch period in County facilities. If conducting group orientation sessions for new employees, the Agency/Department Head shall permit a union representative or a steward to meet with said new employees for a period not to exceed 10 minutes. A steward who attends an orientation session shall be permitted release time for this purpose. No contacts shall be permitted during working hours with employees regarding membership, collection of monies, election of officers, or other similar internal employee organization business.
E.	DEPARTMENTAL MEETINGS. Unless otherwise agreed, representatives or employees of employee organization shall not be permitted to attend meetings or conferences called by agency/departmental personnel to attend to matters arising out of the normal course of agency/departmental activities.
As used herein, agency/departmental meetings shall not include meetings between management and affected employees on matters mutually acknowledged to be submitted under Section 20. Grievance Procedure.
F.	ACCESS TO RECORDS. An employee shall be permitted to review his/her own personnel record. Union representatives shall be permitted to review employee records when accompanied by the employee or upon presentation of a written authorization signed by the employee. The employee or the Union representative when accompanied by the employee or upon presentation of a written authorization signed by the employee may request a copy of the employee's personnel record. The County shall provide one copy of the record without charge. The County may verify any written authorization. The Union's access to employee records shall be for good cause only. Third party reference material shall not be made available.
Letters of reprimand or warning will be removed from an employee's official personnel file upon request of the employee after 5 years from the date of the letter, provided the County has not initiated any subsequent corrective action of the employee. All requests must be presented in writing to the Agency/Department Head.
G.	DATA TO UNION. The County shall, upon request, supply the Union with data processing runs of the names, home and office addresses and Civil Service classifications of all employees in represented units. Such service shall be supplied at no more than cost to the County.
SECTION 5.	SHOP STEWARDS
A.	PURPOSE. The County recognizes the need and affirms the right of the Union to designate shop stewards from among employees in the unit. It is agreed that the Union in appointing such shop stewards, does so for the purpose of promoting an effective relationship between supervisors and employees by helping to settle problems at the lowest level of supervision.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-5-
SECTION 5.-contd.
B.	ROLE OF STEWARD AND SUPERVISOR. The shop steward recognizes the fact that the supervisor is the key person in the agency/department and, as such, is responsible to higher management for the quality and quantity of work. As the supervisor is the key person for management, the shop steward is the key person for the Union. They must promote and maintain good morale and friendly relations and must be willing to meet in good faith to settle grievances as they arise, exercising a positive approach. There must be mutual respect on both sides in these relations. The shop steward understands that his/her stewardship function does not relieve him/her from conforming to all rules of conduct and standards of performance established by law, regulation, county or agency/department policy or Memorandum of Understanding.
C.	SELECTION OF STEWARDS. The Union shall reserve the right to designate the method of selection of shop stewards. The Union shall notify the Agency/Department Head in writing of the names of the stewards and the units they represent. If a change in stewards is made, the Agency/Department Head shall be advised in writing of the steward being replaced and the steward named to take his/her place. The number of stewards shall be mutually agreed upon and a list of stewards shall be submitted to each agency/department concerned.
D.	DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF STEWARDS. The following functions are understood to constitute the complete duties and responsibilities of shop stewards.
1.	Duties and Time Limits
a.	SHOP STEWARDS WORKING FULL TIME. After obtaining supervisory permission, shop stewards employed full-time will be permitted to leave their normal work area during on-duty time not to exceed eight hours per pay period in order to assist in investigation of facts and assist in presentation of a grievance or a disciplinary action.
b.	SHOP STEWARDS WORKING LESS THAN FULL TIME. After obtaining supervisory permission, shop stewards employed two-fifths time or more, but less than full time, will be permitted to leave their normal work area during on-duty time not to exceed four hours per pay period in order to assist in investigation of facts and assist in presentation of a grievance or a disciplinary action.
To obtain permission to investigate a grievance on on-duty time, the steward shall advise the supervisor of the grievant of his/her investigation of the facts and the general nature of the grievance. The shop steward shall report such time to his/her supervisor as shop steward leave (payroll code 66) for timekeeping purposes.
The shop steward is permitted to discuss the problem with all employees immediately concerned, and, if appropriate, to attempt to achieve settlement with the supervisory personnel involved. Agencies, wards, clients, detainees and outside interested parties will not be contacted by stewards as part of the grievance process. The employee may be represented by a steward at such times as a grievance is reduced to writing.
2.	If, in the judgment of the supervisor, because of the necessity of maintaining an adequate level of service, permission cannot be granted immediately to the shop steward in order to present or investigate a grievance or a disciplinary action during on-duty time, such permission shall be granted by the supervisor no later than the next working day from the date the shop steward was denied permission.
3.	Stewards/employees who participate in the meet and confer process and/or participate on a Labor Management Team, must report such time to their supervisor as payroll code 72 for meet and confer and payroll code 109 for participating on a labor management team.
E.	CHANGES IN STEWARDS OR NUMBER OF STEWARDS. If management reassigns a shop steward which will leave his/her present shift or work location without a steward, the Union shall have the right to appoint a replacement. Should the Union wish to change stewards during the grievance procedure, it may do so provided that only one steward will be allowed time off from work upon one occasion to investigate the grievance.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-6-
SECTION 5. -contd.
F.	CONDUCT OF MEETINGS. Any meeting of shop stewards and supervisors will be held in a quiet, dignified manner. Management personnel will agree to recognize and work with Union stewards in a conscientious effort to settle problems at the earliest possible step of the grievance procedure.
G.	LIMITATIONS OF TIME OFF. Stewards shall not be permitted time off from their work assignment for the purpose of conducting general Union business.
H.	SHOP STEWARD SIGNS. Shop stewards may identify themselves by use of an appropriate sign or placard so long as the sign or placard is no larger than 4 inches by 12 inches.
SECTION 6.	HOURS OF WORK, SHIFTS, SCHEDULES, AND REST PERIODS
A.	WORK SCHEDULE AND CHANGE OF SHIFT. Except for an employee in a classification enumerated in Appendix B, the Agency/Department Head shall prepare a schedule showing the hours each employee and appointive officer of the County in his/her agency/department is to work. Except under unforeseeable circumstances, the Agency/Department Head shall make every reasonable effort to assure that no employee shall have more than one change of shift in any workweek and that the employee shall be off duty no less than 12 hours prior to working the new shift. Except in cases of emergency, employees in units regularly assigned to cover shifts seven days a week, 24-hours a day, shall be given ten calendar days' notice of any change in shift schedule.
B.	WORKDAY AND WORKWEEK - except as provided in Section 7.G., H., I., J., K„ L., M., N„ 0., P„ and Q. hereof, the following shall apply:
1.	For each full-time employee who works 7.5 hours per day, the normal workweek shall be 37.5 hours.
2.	For each full-time employee who works 8 hours per day, the normal workweek shall be 40 hours.
3.	For each part-time employee, the workday and/or workweek will be determined by the Agency/Department Head. The workday and/or workweek will be a proration of time scheduled to work to the normal 37.5 or 40 hour workweek base as designated for the employee's classification enumerated in the Appendix A.
4.	For services as needed employees, the workweek is scheduled on an as needed basis as determined by the Agency/Department Head, with the workweek base being 37.5 or 40 hours as designated for the employee's classification in Appendix A.
5.	For part-time and services as needed employees, the "workweek base," as used herein, shall mean an amount of hours in a workweek which are equivalent to the full time hours listed for classifications as enumerated in Appendix A.
C.	HOURS OF WORK DEFINED. For all nonsupervisory or nonprofessional employees, hours worked, including all hours suffered to be worked, shall include all time not under the control of the employee whether such hours are worked in the County's work place, or in some other place where the employee is carrying out the duties of the County.
D.	REST PERIODS. No wage deduction shall be made nor time off charged against employees taking authorized rest periods, nor shall any right to overtime be accrued for rest periods not taken. There is no obligation upon the County to provide facilities for refreshments during the rest period, or for procurement thereof.
1.	All Employees Other than Video Display Screen Users: Each employee shall be granted a rest period of 15 minutes during each work period of more than 3 hours duration; provided, however, that rest periods are not scheduled during the first or last hour of such period of work. Such rest periods for courtroom personnel shall be scheduled at the discretion of the Judge/Commissioner.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-7-
SECTION 6. - contd.
2.	Employees Using Video Display Screens: In lieu of Section 6.D.1. above, employees who operate video display equipment which requires continuous viewing of a video screen for more than two consecutive hours in a day shall be granted rest periods often minutes in each hour of such assignment; provided, however, that a rest period is not scheduled during the last hour of an employee's scheduled workday. Occasional use of the telephone or services-as-needed public contact not related to the video display equipment of less than five minutes duration per hour is not inconsistent with the meaning of "continuous viewing" as stated herein. Employees described herein may alternatively select to schedule rest periods, as described in Section 6.D.1. above instead of the rest periods described in Section 6.D.2.
E.	CONVERSION OF WORKWEEK FROM 37.5 TO 40 HOURS. Employees in classifications converting to a 40-hour workweek shall carry over their vacation and sick leave and subject to Section 9.A. and 9.B. hereof, floating holiday balance in the same number of days and fractions of days recorded for the 37.5 hour workweek. For compensatory time, the same number of hours and fractions of hours recorded for the 37.5 hour workweek shall be carried over for the 40 hour workweek subject to Section 7.F. hereof.
F.	VOLUNTARY REDUCTION OF WORK PERIOD. Upon mutual agreement of a full-time permanent employee covered by this Memorandum of Understanding and an Agency/Department Head such employee may elect to reduce work hours with an equal reduction in pay and paid benefits for periods of up to 13 pay periods as follows:
1.	An employee and Agency/Department Head may agree that the employee shall work a part-time work schedule of 90%, 80%, 70%, 60%, or 50% in any biweekly pay period with a corresponding reduction in pay and paid benefits as set forth in paragraph 4 of this subsection.
2.	Employees working an approved reduced work schedule shall revert to full-time work status at the end of the agreed to period or, if the employee transfers, promotes, demotes, terminates or in any other way changes his/her status with the County he/she shall be removed from the reduced work schedule.
3.	With ten calendar days advance notice, an Agency/Department Head may unilaterally terminate an approved reduced work schedule in the event of an unanticipated staffing or fiscal emergency. The determination to terminate the approved reduction shall be final and nongrievable.
4.	Employees opting to reduce hours under this section, shall be deemed full-time employees for all purposes of this Memorandum provided that such employees shall be entitled to paid leave accruals and health and dental plan contributions on the same basis as part-time employees represented herein during such periods.
5.	Employees who reduce working hours under this section will remain on the payroll with full-time employee status and the hours not worked as the result of the reduction shall be coded as leave without pay.
G.	WORKING NONASSIGNED SHIFTS. A less than full-time employee may contact his/her respective Agency/Department Head and request to be scheduled to any nonassigned shift. In order to be considered timely, such requests must be made in writing at least 72 hours in advance of the starting time of the shift requested. An employee scheduled to work a nonassigned shift, who has less than eight hours of compensatory time accrued, may elect to be compensated for such work in cash or compensatory time-off by including such election in the written request to be assigned.
The Agency/Department Head shall respond to all timely requests and shall schedule the requesting employee for the requested nonassigned shift unless:
a.	The requesting employee, in the judgment of the Agency/Department Head, does not have the ability, skills, training and preparation to perform the duties of said shift assignment; and/or,
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-8-
SECTION 6.-contd.
b.	The requested shift would make the requesting employee eligible for overtime in which case the assignment shall be subject to approval by the Agency/Department Head as specified in Section 7.A. of this Memorandum.
If more than one such request is received, the Agency/Department Head shall respond to said requests in the order received.
Judgments made by the Agency/Department Head, as herein provided, shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
SECTION 7.	OVERTIME
A.	HOW OVERTIME IS AUTHORIZED. Work for the County by an employee at times other than those scheduled pursuant to Section 6A. shall be approved in advance in writing by the Agency/Department Head, or in cases of unanticipated emergency, shall be approved by the Agency/Department Head, after such emergency work is performed. No employee shall perform overtime work unless such overtime work has been approved by the Agency/Department Head or his/her designee.
B.	OVERTIME WORK DEFINED. Overtime work shall be defined as all work performed in a workweek pursuant to subsection A of this section in excess of the normal full-time workweek for the job classification. Holidays which fall on an employee's regularly scheduled day off shall not count towards the accumulation of the workweek. Holidays worked, holidays which fall on an employee's regularly scheduled workday and paid time off shall count toward the accumulation of the workweek.
C.	RATES DEFINED.
1.	For the purposes of this section, the hourly rate shall be defined as follows:
a.	For employees working a 37.5 hour workweek or 37.5 hour workweek base, the hourly rate shall be the biweekly rate divided by 75.
b.	For employees working a 40 hour workweek, or 40 hour workweek base, the hourly rate shall be the biweekly rate divided by 80.
c.	For employees working on an hourly rate basis, the hourly rate is reflected in appendices attached hereto.
d.	For employees working on a daily rate basis, the daily rate is reflected in Appendices attached hereto.
2.	For purposes of this section, the Fair Labor Standards Act regular rate shall be defined as follows:
An employee's regular rate shall include in addition to his/her hourly rate as defined in C. 1., any applicable salary ordinance footnote and any applicable premium payment pursuant to Section 12., 13.A. and 13.C. of this Memorandum of Understanding.
D.	OVERTIME PAYMENT. Employees shall be compensated for overtime work either in cash or in compensatory time at the option of the Agency/Department Head as follows and consistent with subsection F. herein:
1.	For classifications with a 37.5 hour workweek or a 37.5 hour workweek base, employees shall be compensated at time and one-half for all time worked in excess of 37.5 hours.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-9-
SECTION 7.-contd.
2.	For classifications with a 40 hour workweek or a 40 hour workweek base, excluding employees in classifications enumerated in Appendix D, employees shall be compensated at time and one-half for all time worked in excess of 40 hours.
3.	The method of compensation for cash payment of overtime worked shall be as follows:
a.	Employees covered by the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act shall be paid time and one-half for overtime worked as provided in subsection D. based on the hourly rate defined in subsection C.1 provided, however, that time and one-half the employee's Fair Labor Standards Act regular rate defined in subsection C.2 shall be paid for all actual hours worked in excess of 40 hours (excluding holidays and paid leave time) in an employee's designated workweek.
b.	Employees exempt from the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act shall be paid time and one-half for all overtime worked as provided in subsection D. based on the hourly rate defined in subsection C. 1.
4.	There shall be no overtime payment unless the employee has actually worked at least some portion of time during said workweek. An employee on paid leave only, during an entire workweek, is not entitled to any overtime compensation unless the individual physically works hours during that workweek. (For example: an employee on vacation Sunday through Thursday (37.5 or 40 hours) could work Friday and/or Saturday and receive overtime. The fact that the employee physically worked Friday and/or Saturday meets the criteria of performing work within the workweek.)
5.	For employees in classifications enumerated in Appendix D and the classification of 5420N, flextime schedules requiring an employee to work in excess of eight hours in any one workday, excluding meal period, or in excess of eight hours in consecutive time, excluding meal period, shall be exempted from the provision requiring overtime compensation after eight hours in a workday.
E.	WHEN OVERTIME SHALL BE PAID. Compensation for overtime work shall be paid not later than the completion of the pay period next succeeding the pay period in which such overtime was earned.
F.	WHEN COMPENSATING TIME OFF MAY BE TAKEN OR PAID: Compensating time off earned on or after April 15, 1986 may be accrued to a maximum of 80 hours, and any employee who has accumulated 80 hours of compensatory time off shall be paid in cash for all subsequent overtime worked until such time as the employee's compensating time off balance is reduced below 80 hours. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an employee may exceed the 80 hour maximum when an emergency or other unusual circumstances exist and the Agency/Department has obtained approval of the County Administrator's Office to grant compensating time off in excess of 80 hours.
Scheduling of compensating time off shall be by mutual agreement of the employee and the Agency/Department Head provided that the Agency/Department Head may require that an employee adjust his/her workweek in order to avoid overtime penalties.
An employee covered by the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act who has accrued compensating time off in accordance with this subsection shall upon separation from County service be paid for unused compensating time off at a rate of compensation not less than the average regular rate, as defined above, received by such employee during the last 3 years of employment or the final regular rate received by such employee, whichever is higher. An employee, at his/her option, may request to be paid off for any unused compensating time off, up to a maximum of 80 hours, upon resignation/reinstatement or transfer to another agency/department. An employee shall be paid off for any unused compensating time off, up to a maximum of 80 hours, prior to appointment from an FLSA non-exempt position to an FLSA exempt position.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-10-
SECTION 7. - contd.
An employee who is exempt from the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act who has accrued compensating time off in accordance with this subsection shall, upon separation from County service, be paid for unused compensating time off, up to a maximum of 80 hours, at the employee's biweekly or hourly rate for each classification as set forth in Appendix A.
G.	BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN DATA PROCESSING DEPARTMENT. Notwithstanding Sections 7.B. and 7.C. of this Memorandum, in those cases in which an employee working in the Data Processing Department and the Director of Data Processing agree to a fixed flexible biweekly work schedule under which an employee, who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour workweek, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 40 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, or, in the case of an employee whose classification is exempt from FLSA overtime provisions who would normally be subject to a 40 hour workweek, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 45 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible for overtime compensation, shall be entitled to such compensation only for the time worked in excess of the scheduled workweek of 35/35 hours or 40/45 hours. Data Processing Department employees who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5/8 hours off with pay on paid holidays and shall be required to makeup during the workweek in which the holiday falls the difference between 7.5/8 hours and the length of the workday which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal workday on the flexible schedule. Said employee shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for working said holiday makeup hours. The Director of Data Processing shall, in his/her discretion determine which, if any, classifications and positions shall be eligible for the flexible biweekly work schedule and retains the right, upon appropriate notice to Union and after meeting and conferring if requested by Union, to make changes in the classifications and positions eligible for such flexible schedule or to eliminate the program in its entirety.
H.	BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN SOCIAL SERVICES AGENCY. Notwithstanding Section 7.B. and 7.C. of the Memorandum of Understanding, in those cases in which an employee working in the Social Services Agency and the Director of the Social Services Agency agree to a fixed flexible biweekly work schedule under which an employee who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour week is scheduled to work 40 hours in one week and 35 hours the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible for overtime compensation, shall be entitled to such compensation only for the time worked in excess of the scheduled workweek of 40 hours or 35 hours. Social Services Agency employees who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5 hours off with pay on paid holidays and shall be required to makeup during the workweek in which the holiday falls, the difference between 7.5 hours and the length of the workday in which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal workday on the flexible schedule. Said employee shall not be entitled to overtime compensation if he/she is approved to work said holiday makeup hours, rather than take vacation or compensatory time.
I.	BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN PROBATION DEPARTMENT. Notwithstanding Section 7.B. and 7.C. of this Memorandum, in those cases in which an employee working in the Probation Department and the Chief Probation Officer agree to a fixed flexible biweekly work schedule under which an employee, who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour workweek, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 40 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible for overtime compensation, shall be entitled to such compensation only for the time worked in excess of the scheduled workweek of 35 hours or 40 hours. Probation Department employees who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5 hours off with pay on paid holidays and shall be required to makeup during the pay period in which the holiday falls the difference between 7.5 hours and the length of the workday which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal workday on the flexible schedule. Said employee shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for working said holiday makeup hours. The Chief Probation Officer shall, in his/her discretion, determine which, if any, classifications and positions shall be eligible for the flexible biweekly work schedule and retains the right, upon
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-11-
SECTION 7.-contd.
appropriate notice to Union and after meeting and conferring if requested by Union, to make changes in the classifications and positions eligible for such flexible schedule or to eliminate the program in its entirety.
J.	BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY. Notwithstanding Sections 7.B. and 7.C. of the Memorandum of Understanding, in those cases in which an employee working in the Community Development Agency and the Director, Community Development Agency agree to a flexible biweekly work schedule under which an employee, who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour workweek, is scheduled to work 40 hours in one week and 35 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible for overtime compensation, shall be entitled to such compensation only for the time worked in excess of the scheduled workweek. Department employees who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5 hours off with pay on paid holidays and shall be required to makeup during the workweek in which the holiday falls the difference between 7.5 hours and the length of the workday which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal workday on the flexible schedule. Said employee shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for working said holiday makeup hours. The Director, Community Development Agency shall, in his discretion, determine which, if any, classifications and positions shall be eligible for the flexible biweekly work schedule and retains the right, upon appropriate notice to Union and after meeting and conferring if requested by Union, to make changes in the classifications and positions eligible for such flexible schedule or to eliminate the program in its entirety.
K.	BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN REGISTRAR OF VOTERS DEPARTMENT. Notwithstanding Section 7.B. and 7.C. of the Memorandum of Understanding, in those cases in which an employee working in the Registrar of Voters Department and the Registrar of Voters agree to a fixed flexible biweekly work schedule under which an employee, who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour workweek, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 40 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible for overtime compensation, shall be entitled to such compensation only for time worked in excess of the scheduled workweek of 35 hours and 40 hours. Registrar of Voters Department employees who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5 hours off with pay on paid holidays and shall be required to makeup during the workweek in which the holiday falls the difference between 7.5 hours and the length of the workday which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal workday on the flexible schedule. Said employee shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for working said holiday makeup hours. The Registrar of Voters may in his/her discretion suspend flextime during peak workload periods. The Registrar of Voters shall, in his/her discretion, determine which, if any, classifications and positions shall be eligible for the flexible biweekly work schedule and retains the right, upon appropriate notice to Union and after meeting and conferring if requested by Union, to make changes in the classifications and positions eligible for such flexible schedule or to eliminate the program in its entirety.
L.	BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN THE PUBLIC WORKS AGENCY. Notwithstanding Sections 7.B. and 7.C. of this Memorandum of Understanding, in those cases in which an employee in the Public Works Agency and the Director of Public Works agree to a fixed flexible biweekly work schedule under which an employee, who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour workweek, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 40 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, or, in the case of an employee whose classification is exempt from FLSA overtime provisions who would normally be subject to a 40-hour workweek, is scheduled to work 35 or 36 hours in one week and 44 or 45 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible for overtime compensation, shall be entitled to such compensation only for the time worked in excess of the scheduled workweek of 35 or 35/36 hours and 40 or 44/45 hours. Public Works Agency employees who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5/8 hours off with pay on paid holidays and shall be required to makeup during the workweek in which the holiday falls the difference between 7.5/8 hours and the length of the workday which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal workday on the flexible schedule. Said employees shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for working said holiday makeup hours.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-12-
SECTION 7.-contd.
M.	BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN THE OFFICE OF ASSESSOR. Notwithstanding Sections 7.B. and 7.C. of this Memorandum, in those cases in which an employee in the Office of Assessor and the Assessor agree to a fixed flexible biweekly work schedule under which an employee, who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour workweek, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 40 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible for overtime compensation, shall be entitled to such compensation only for the time worked in excess of the scheduled workweek of 35 or 40 hours. Employees of the Office of Assessor who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5 hours off with pay on paid holidays and shall be required to makeup during the workweek in which the holiday falls the difference between 7.5 hours and the length of the workday which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal workday on the flexible schedule. Said employees shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for working said holiday makeup hours.
The Assessor shall, in his/her discretion, determine which, if any, classifications and positions shall be eligible for the flexible biweekly work schedule, after meeting and conferring with the Union.
The Assessor also retains the right, upon appropriate notice to the Union and after meeting and conferring if requested by the Union, to make changes in the classifications and positions eligible for such flexible schedule or to eliminate the program in its entirety.
N. BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN THE OFFICE OF THE TREASURER-TAX COLLECTOR. Notwithstanding Section 7.B. and 7.C. of this Memorandum of Understanding, in those cases which an employee working in the Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office and the Treasurer-Tax Collector agree to a fixed biweekly work schedule under which an employee, who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour work week, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 40 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible for overtime compensation, shall be entitled to such compensation only for the time worked in excess of the scheduled work week of 35 hours or 40 hours. Treasurer-Tax Collector employees who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5 hours off with pay on paid holidays and shall be required to makeup during the week in which the holiday falls the difference between 7.5 hours and the length of the work day which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal work day on the flexible schedule. Said employee shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for working said holiday makeup hours. The Treasurer-Tax Collector shall, in his/her discretion, determine which, if any, classifications and positions shall be eligible for the flexible biweekly work schedule and retains the right, upon appropriate notice to Union and after meeting and conferring if requested by Union, to make changes in the classifications and positions eligible for such flexible schedule or to eliminate the program in its entirety.
O.	BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN LIBRARY DEPARTMENT. Notwithstanding Section 7.B and 7.C of the Memorandum of Understanding, in those cases in which an employee working in the Library Department agrees to a fixed flexible biweekly work schedule under which an employee, who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour workweek, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 40 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible to overtime compensation shall be entitled to such compensation only for time worked in excess of the scheduled workweek of 35 and 40 hours, Library Department employees who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5 hours off with pay on paid holidays and shall be required to makeup during the workweek in which the holiday falls the difference between 7.5 hours and the length of the workday which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal workday on the flexible schedule. Said employee shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for working said holiday makeup hours. The County Librarian shall, in his/her discretion, determine which, if any, classifications and positions shall be eligible for the flexible biweekly work schedule and retains the right upon appropriate notice to the Union and after meeting and conferring if requested by the Union, to make changes in the classifications and positions eligible for such flexible schedule or eliminate the program in its entirety.
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-13-
SECTION 7.-contd.
P.	BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CARE SERVICES DEPARTMENT. Notwithstanding Section 7.B. and 7.C. of this Memorandum of Understanding, in those cases in which an employee working in the Behavioral Health Care Services Department and the Director of Behavioral Health Care Services agree to a fixed flexible biweekly work schedule under which an employee, who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour workweek, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 40 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, or, in the case of an employee whose classification is exempt from FLSA overtime provisions who would normally be subject to a 40 hour work week, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 45 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible for overtime compensation, shall be entitled to such compensation only for the time worked in excess of the scheduled work week of 35/35 hours or 40/45 hours. Behavioral Health Care Services Department employees who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5/8 hours off with pay on paid holidays and shall be required to makeup during the work week in which the holiday falls the difference between 7.5/8 hours and the length of the work day which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal work day on the flexible schedule. Said employee shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for working said holiday makeup hours. The Director of Behavioral Health Care Services shall, in his/her discretion, determine which, if any, classifications and positions shall be eligible for the flexible biweekly work schedule and retains the right, upon appropriate notice to Union and after meeting and conferring if requested by Union, to make changes in the classifications and positions eligible for such flexible schedule or to eliminate the program in its entirety.
Q.	BIWEEKLY WORK SCHEDULE IN THE ALAMEDA COUNTY EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT ASSOCIATION (ACERA). Notwithstanding Sections 7.B and 7.C. of the Memorandum of Understanding, in those cases in which an employee in ACERA and the General Manager of ACERA agree to a fixed flexible biweekly work schedule under which an employee, who would normally be subject to a 37.5 hour workweek, is scheduled to work 35 hours in one week and 40 hours in the other week of a biweekly pay period, the employee, if otherwise eligible for overtime compensation, shall be entitled to such compensation only for the time worked in excess of the scheduled work week of 35 and 40 hours.
Employees of the Retirement Association who are subject to the foregoing flexible work schedule shall not be entitled to more than 7.5 hours off with pay on paid holiday and shall be required to makeup during the workweek in which the holiday falls, the difference between 7.5 hours and the length of the workday which the employee would have been scheduled to work had the holiday been a normal workday on the flexible schedule. Said employees shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for working said holiday makeup hours.
The General Manager shall, in his/her discretion, determine which, if any, classifications and positions shall be eligible for the flexible biweekly work schedule. The General Manager also retains the right, upon appropriate notice to the Union and after meeting and conferring if requested by the Union, to make changes in the classifications and positions eligible for such flexible schedule or to eliminate the program in its entirety.
SECTION 8.	LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A.	LEAVE MAY NOT EXCEED NINE MONTHS. A leave of absence without pay may be granted by the Agency/Department Head upon the request of the employee seeking such leave, but shall not be longer than nine months, except as hereinafter provided.
B.	NO LEAVE TO ACCEPT OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT. A leave of absence without pay may not be granted to a person accepting either private or public employment outside the service of the County of Alameda, except as hereinafter provided.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-14-
SECTION 8. -contd.
C.	MILITARY LEAVE. Every employee shall be entitled to military leaves of absence as specified in Chapter 7, Part 1, Division 2 of the California Military and Veterans Code. The employee must present to his supervisor a copy of his/her military orders which specify the dates and duration of such leave.
If such employee shall have been continuously employed by the County for at least one year prior to the date such absence begins, he/she shall be entitled to receive paid military leave as follows:
I.	Paid military leave which may be granted during a fiscal year is limited to an aggregate of 30 calendar days during ordered military leave, including weekend days and travel time.
2.	During the period specified in 8.C.1. above, the employee shall be entitled to receive pay only for those days or fractions of days which the employee would have been scheduled to work and would have worked but for the military leave.
3.	The rate of pay shall be the same rate the employee would have received for shifts he/she would have been scheduled to work or scheduled for paid holiday leave, had he/she not been on military leave.
4.	In no event shall an employee be paid for time he/she would not have been scheduled to work during said military leave.
Time spent on military leave shall be included in determining eligibility to occupy a classification based upon length of service.
D.	TEMPORARY APPOINTMENT DUE TO MILITARY LEAVE. An Agency/ Department Head may grant an employee a leave of absence without pay from his/her position to permit such an employee to be temporarily appointed to fill a position which is vacant as the result, and during the period of, a military leave of absence.
E.	EDUCATIONAL LEAVE. A leave of absence without pay may be granted by the Agency/Department Head upon the request of the employee seeking such leave for the purpose of education, but no one such leave of absence shall exceed a period of one year.
F.	PAID TIME OFF FOR EDUCATION PURPOSES. Except for employees enumerated in Appendix B, employees in the following classifications will be granted paid leave per fiscal year for state mandated training required to maintain their licenses, certifications, or registration. Paid leave for any employee regularly scheduled to work less than the normal work week for the job classification shall be prorated within a pay period in which leave is granted, based upon a proportion of the hours which would have been worked during that pay period but for the leave to the normal full-time pay period for the job classification.
The County may substitute on an hour-for-hour basis accredited mandated training offered by the County on an in-service basis for Nursing and Pharmacy classifications, and for the classifications of Psychiatric Social Worker I and Psychiatric Social Worker II. With respect to scheduling paid time off for the Nursing classes included in this provision the Agency Head shall schedule such time as follows: The Agency Head shall designate a bulletin board at each major work location where continuing education course announcements shall be posted in a timely fashion. Nurses wishing leave to attend such courses shall complete and forward to the Agency Head any necessary leave form. The County shall have 15 days to deny such leave in writing or leave shall be granted as requested by the employee.
If additional classifications covered by this Memorandum of Understanding are mandated by State law or regulation to complete a continuing education requirement to maintain licensure or certification, at the request of the union, the County will meet and confer on inclusion of such classifications within the provisions of this Section 8.F.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-15-
SECTION 8. - contd.
1.	Microbiologist, Senior
Microbiologist
2.	Dental Hygienist
3.	Clinical Pharmacist Specialist
Upto 15 hours
Upto 12.5 hours
Upto 15 hours
4.	Appraisers	Up to 24 hours.
5.	Clinical Nurse Specialist, Clinical Nurse I, II & III, Mid-level Practitioner, Mental Health Specialists licensed as Vocational Nurses.
Up to 30 hours over a 2-fiscal year period.
6.	If a Mid-level Practitioner is required to obtain educational units by an Agency/Department Head that cannot be taken within the limit in No. 5 above, the Agency/Department Head will authorize such additional paid educational leave as is necessary to satisfy practitioner staff qualifications. Any such additional leave shall be prorated for part-time Mid-level Practitioners as provided above.
7.	Clinical Psychologist
8.	Acupuncturist
9.	Psychiatric Social Worker I & II Marriage, Family and Child Counselor I & II
$
Up to 36 hours over a 2 fiscal year period.
Up to 30 hours over a 2-fiscal year period.
Up to 36 hours over a 2-fiscal year period, effective on the date established by the Board of Behavioral Sciences.
G.
H.
10.	If a Psychiatric Social Worker I or Psychiatric Social Worker II has not complied with the one-time-State-required 10-hour Human Sexuality Training, or one-time-State-required 7-hour Child Abuse Training, or one-time-State-required 15 hour Alcoholism Training, the Agency/ Department Head shall authorize paid educational leave for these specific hours for these specific training programs. Any such leave shall be prorated for part-time employees in these classifications.
LEAVE WHEN LENT TO OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY OR GOVERNMENTAL INSTITUTION. A leave of absence without pay may be granted by the Agency/Department Head to any employee who is lent to another governmental jurisdiction, to an agency engaged in a survey of government practices, or to an educational institution, but no one such leave of absence shall exceed a period of one year.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE TO ACCEPT APPOINTMENT TO THE UNCLASSIFIED SERVICE. A leave of absence without pay may be granted to an employee to permit such person to accept employment for an indefinite period in the unclassified civil service of the County or in a position outside the County service, the salary of which is paid in whole or in part by the County. Upon termination of such employment, such person shall revert to the position from which said leave of absence was granted and, in the event such position has been filled by another person, the reduction in force procedures set forth in the Civil Service Commission Rules shall apply.
LEAVES OF ABSENCE TO ACCEPT APPOINTMENT TO ANOTHER POSITION IN THE CLASSIFIED SERVICE. An employee having tenure in a classification in the classified civil service who is appointed to another classification in the classified service of the County may be granted a leave of absence without pay from the position to which he/she has tenure until he/she obtains tenure to such other position, or his/her appointment thereto is terminated for any reason, whichever first
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-16-
SECTION 8. - contd.
occurs. In the event qf the return of such employee to the position from which leave of absence was granted, the employee with the least seniority in such class in such agency/department shall be laid off if all authorized positions are filled.
J.	LEAVE FOR ASSIGNMENT TO SPECIAL PROJECT. An employee having tenure in a classification in the classified civil service, who is appointed to the classification of Project Specialist, may be granted a leave of absence without pay from the classification in which he/she has tenure, by the Agency/Department Head, for the duration of said employee's assignment to the special project.
K.	LEAVE FOR JURY DUTY OR IN ANSWER TO A SUBPOENA. Sufficient paid leave shall be granted to permit an employee to travel between the work place and the court and while serving on jury duty or in answer to a subpoena as a witness. Compensation for any employee regularly scheduled to work less than the normal work week for the job classification shall be prorated within a pay period in which leave is granted, based upon a proportion of the hours which would have been worked during that pay period but for the leave to the normal full-time pay period for the job classification. Any jury or witness fee awarded to such person, less reimbursement for mileage, shall be deposited in the County Treasury. Any person assigned an afternoon or evening shift shall be entitled to equal time off as leave with pay from his/her next regularly scheduled shift for all time spent serving on jury duty, or answering a subpoena as a witness and for traveling to and from court. Any person who is regularly assigned to a schedule which includes working Saturday and Sunday, who serves on jury duty on their entire two scheduled days off during the previous Monday through Friday, shall be allowed the option to contact their supervisor and schedule their next regular work day as vacation or compensatory time.
When an employee is excused from jury duty or from answering a subpoena as a witness in time to report for at least one-half his/her regularly scheduled shift, the employee shall report to duty and jury duty pay under this section shall be reduced accordingly. If the employee fails to report as set forth herein, he/she shall be docked for the balance of the day.
Employees shall apply for standby jury duty if the court permits this option. An employee whose work assignment precludes participation in the standby jury duty shall be exempted from this requirement, provided that an Agency/Department Head may adjust an employee's work assignment to permit the employee to apply for standby duty.
L.	DISABILITY LEAVE FOR OTHER EMPLOYMENT. Anything in this Memorandum of Understanding to the contrary notwithstanding, any person who, because of sickness or injury, is incapable of performing his/her work or duties in the service of the County but who is nevertheless capable of performing other work or duties outside the service of the County may, within the discretion of the Agency/Department Head, be granted sick leave of absence without pay during such disability to accept such employment.
M.	PERSONAL DISABILITY LEAVE. After six months from date of employment, an employee shall be entitled to leaves of absence without pay for not more than two periods aggregating to no more than 90 calendar days within a 12-month period upon presentation of acceptable proof of his/her personal disability. Before such leave, the employee must have used all accrued vacation, paid sick leave or compensating time off, unless the employee is receiving accrued vacation, paid sick leave or compensating time off as a supplement to disability insurance benefits under Section 21 of this Memorandum, in which event, the employee shall be entitled to personal disability leave. But the employee's entitlement to personal disability leave shall be reduced by the hourly equivalent of the disability insurance payment (hours of personal disability deducted per pay period equals two times the employee's weekly disability insurance entitlement divided by the employee's normal hourly rate) provided, however, that an employee who has exhausted paid leave balances and is receiving disability insurance only shall have personal disability leave deducted on a day-for-day basis. Such leave may be extended by mutual agreement of the employee and the Agency/Department Head.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-17-
SECTION 8. -contd.
The Agency/Department Head may require acceptable proof of the employee's ability to return to work provided that the Agency/Department Head shall notify the employee in writing of such requirement in advance. If the submitted proof is deemed unacceptable, the Agency/Department Head shall immediately notify the employee in writing of existing deficiencies in the submitted proof. Employees granted leave under this paragraph shall be returned to the same classification and the Agency/Department Head shall make its best effort to return such employee to the same geographical location, shift and, where there is specialization within a classification, to the same specialization. Questions as to whether or not the Agency/Department Head has used his/her best effort herein shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
N.	MATERNITY LEAVE. A pregnant employee is entitled to a maternity leave of up to six months, the dates of which are to be mutually agreed by the employee and Agency/Department Head. Such an employee may elect to take accrued vacation or compensating time off or sick leave during the period of maternity leave, except that in the case of an employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than the normal full-time workweek for the classification, paid leave shall be granted only for those days, or fractions thereof, on which such an employee would have been regularly scheduled to work and would have worked but for the maternity leave. The employee shall be entitled to sick leave with pay accumulated pursuant to Section 11 .E. of this Memorandum of Understanding.
Reinstatement subsequent to maternity leave of absence shall be to the same classification from which leave was taken and the Agency/Department Head shall make its best effort to return such employee to the same geographical location, shift, and where there is specialization within a classification, to the same specialization. Questions as to whether or not the Agency/Department Head has used its best effort herein, shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
O.	PATERNITY AND ADOPTIVE LEAVE. A prospective father or adoptive parent is entitled to paternity or adoptive leave of up to six consecutive months, the dates of which are to be mutually agreed by the employee and the Agency/Department Head. Such an employee may elect to take accrued vacation or compensating time off during the period of paternity/adoptive leave except that in the case of an employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than the normal full-time workweek for the classification, paid leave shall be granted only for those days, or fractions thereof, on which such an employee would have worked but for paternity/adoptive leave. The use of sick leave during paternity/adoptive leave shall not be permitted to fathers or adoptive parents unless they are otherwise eligible to use it as provided in Section 11.L. Reinstatement subsequent to paternity/adoptive leave of absence shall be to the same classification from which leave was taken and the Agency/Department Head shall make its best effort to return such employee to the same geographical location, shift, and where there is specialization within a classification, to the same specialization. Questions as to whether or not the Agency/Department Head has made its best effort herein, shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
P.	DEATH IN IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Leave of absence with pay because of death in the immediate family of a regularly scheduled person in the County service may be granted by the Agency/Department Head for a period of up to 5 days. For purpose of this section, "immediate family" means mother, stepmother, father, stepfather, husband, wife, domestic partner, (upon submission of an affidavit as defined in Appendix E), son, stepson, daughter, stepdaughter, grandparent, grandchild, brother, sister, foster parent, foster child, mother-in-law and father-in-law, or any other person sharing the relationship of in loco parentis; and, when living in the household of the employee, a brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
Entitlement to leave of absence under this section shall be only for all hours the employee would have been scheduled to work for those days granted, and shall be in addition to any other entitlement for sick leave, emergency leave, or any other leave.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-18-
SECTION 8. -contd
Q.	LEAVE FOR PARTICIPATING IN EXAMINATION PROCESS. Upon 48 hours advance notice by the employee to his/her supervisor, an employee shall be granted paid leave while participating in an Alameda County examination which is scheduled during the employee's working hours. Sufficient paid leave shall be granted to permit the employee to travel between the work place and the testing site. Examinations for jurisdictions other than the County of Alameda are exempted from this provision.
R.	LEAVE FOR PARTICIPATING IN THE SELECTION OR TRANSFER PROCESS. Upon 24 hours advance notice by the employee to his/her supervisor, an employee who has received a certification for an Alameda County employment interview or an employee who must be interviewed as part of an interdepartmental transfer shall be granted paid leave while participating in the interview scheduled during the employee's work hours. Sufficient paid leave shall be granted to permit the employee to travel between the work place and the site of the interview. With prior notice to the employee, the Agency/Department Head may require written verification of an interdepartmental transfer interview. Interviews for jurisdictions other than the County of Alameda are exempted from this provision.
S.	LEAVE FOR PARTICIPATING IN A LITERACY PROGRAM. Any employee accepted into the Alameda County Workplace Literacy Program, subject to grant approval, as a learner or a participant or other workplace program approved by Alameda County shall be permitted up to 25 hours in a 12 month period of educational leave with pay to the extent that such courses of instruction are provided during the employee's on-duty hours.
T.	LEAVE FOR EMPLOYMENT WITH THE UNION. Upon written certification from the Union and the agreement of the Agency/Department Head, up to six employees at any one time who are subject to this Memorandum of Understanding shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for a period of up to six months in a 12 month period to work for Locals 250, 535 or 616. At the end of such leave the employee shall be returned to his/her same classification and Agency/Department
SECTION 9.	HOLIDAYS
A.	Holidays Defined. Paid Holidays shall be:
1.	January 1 - New Year's Day
Third Monday in January - Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday
February 12 - Lincoln's Birthday
Third Monday in February - Washington's Birthday
Last Monday in May - Memorial Day
July 4 - Independence Day
First Monday in September - Labor Day
September 9 - Admission Day
Second Monday in October - Columbus Day
November 11 - Veterans' Day
Fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving
Day after Thanksgiving
December 25 - Christmas
2.	All other days appointed by the President of the United States or the Governor of the State of California as a nationwide or statewide public holiday, day of fast, day of mourning, or day of thanksgiving, provided that observance of the day as a paid holiday is approved in writing by three or more members of the Board of Supervisors.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-19-
SECTION 9.-contd.
3.	Two floating holidays are to be scheduled by mutual agreement of the employee and his/her Agency/Department Head and taken within the fiscal year. When a written request for a floating holiday is submitted, the Agency/Department Head shall respond in writing within 14 calendar days or shall schedule the floating holidays as requested by the employee. Employees hired on or after April 1 of any fiscal year are not eligible to receive the floating holidays in that fiscal year. Less than full-time eligible employees shall be entitled to prorated floating holidays based upon a proration of the hours the employee is regularly scheduled to work.
4.	Services-as-Needed employees are not entitled to the holiday benefit as set forth in 9.A.1., 2. and 3. above.
B.	Effective July 1, 2001, holidays shall be defined as follows except as defined in Section B.5 below:
1.	January 1 - New Year’s Day
Third Monday in January - Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday
February 12 - Lincoln’s Birthday
Third Monday in February - Washington’s Birthday
Last Monday in May - Memorial Day
July 4 - Independence Day
First Monday in September - Labor Day
November 11 - Veteran’s Day
Fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving
Day after Thanksgiving
December 25 - Christmas
2.	All other days appointed by the President of the United States or the Governor of the State of California as a nationwide or statewide public holiday, day of fast, day of mourning, or day of thanksgiving, provided that observance of the day as a paid holiday is approved in writing by three or more members of the Board of Supervisors.
3.	Four floating holidays are to be scheduled by mutual agreement of the employee and his/her Agency/Department Head and taken within the fiscal year. The first four full days (7.5 or 8 hours) of vacation or compensatory time taken during each fiscal year shall be charged as floating holidays. Employees shall have the primary responsibility to schedule and take their floating holidays. When a written request for a floating holiday is submitted, the Agency/ Department Head shall respond in writing within 14 calendar days or shall schedule the floating holidays as requested by the employee. Agency/Department Heads shall make a reasonable effort to accommodate floating holiday requests. Employees hired on or after April 1 of any fiscal year are not eligible to receive the floating holidays in that fiscal year.
In the administration of the above paragraph, the provision set forth in Section 10.J.5, governing Vacation Leave Segments shall not apply when an employee’s leave request is solely for Floating Holidays.
4.	Services-as-Needed employees are not entitled to the holiday benefit as set forth in 9.B.1., 2. and 3. above.
5.	Employees of the Sheriffs Department who are in units regularly assigned to cover shifts seven days a week, 24-hours a day, who are employed in the Department on July 1, 2001 will continue to receive holidays as outlined in Section 9.A. Employees who are appointed to the Sheriffs Department after July 1, 2001, and who are in units regularly assigned to cover shifts seven days a week, 24-hours a day, shall receive holidays as specified in Section 9.B.
C.	VALUE OF A HOLIDAY. The value of a holiday which falls during a pay period is 1/1 Oth of an employee's time spent in paid status during such pay period, excluding overtime. The maximum
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-20-
SECTION 9.-contd.
value of a holiday is 7.5 hours for a classification normally scheduled to work 75 hours per pay period or 8 hours for a classification normally scheduled to work 80 hours per pay period.
D.	NUMBER OF HOLIDAYS FOR SHIFT WORKERS. Except as provided in subparagraph C. hereof, no employee assigned to shift work shall receive a greater or lesser number of holidays as defined in Section 9.A. or 9.B. in any calendar year than employees regularly assigned to work during the normal workweek, regardless of how the holiday is compensated. The intent of this section is to compensate each employee for each holiday defined in Section 9.A. or 9.B. above, whether compensation is in cash or time off.
For holiday administration purposes only, when an assigned shift overlaps two calendar days, the day worked or scheduled to be worked shall be that calendar day upon which a majority of work, excluding overtime, was performed or scheduled.
E.	HOLIDAYS TO BE OBSERVED ON WORK DAYS. In the event that January I; February 12, known as "Lincoln's Birthday"; July 4; September 9, known as "Admission Day"; November 11, known as "Veterans Day"; or December 25 shall fall on a Saturday, said holiday shall be observed on the preceding Friday. In the event that any of said holidays enumerated in this subparagraph shall fall on a Sunday, said holiday shall be observed on the following Monday. A day proclaimed as a nationwide or statewide public holiday, day of fast, day of mourning, or day of thanksgiving and approved in writing by three or more members of the Board of Supervisors, shall be granted only to those employees who are regularly scheduled to work on the day for which such holiday is proclaimed.
Notwithstanding the observance of holidays specified in Section 9.E. herein, and including the provisions of 9.D. herein, when December 25, January 1 or July 4 occur in the calendar year on a Saturday or Sunday and a weekend worker is scheduled on said day, the employee shall celebrate the Christmas holiday on December 25, the New Year's holiday on January Tand July 4 on the actual day.
F.	HOLIDAY COMPENSATION.
1.	For Full-time Employees
a.	Holidays not worked by full-time employees shall be compensated at straight time.
b.	In the event that any employee, by virtue of having worked a holiday, as defined in this
section, should work longer than the normal workweek as set forth in Section 6.B. of this Memorandum, said employee shall be compensated as provided in Section 7.D. hereof.
2.	For Part-time Employees
a.	For part-time employees, the compensation for holidays not worked shall be at straight time, prorated each pay period in which a holiday occurs, based upon a proration of the hours which would have been worked within the pay period, but for the holiday, to the normal full-time period for the job classification.
Such an employee may, in writing, with a minimum of seven calendar days notice to his/her Agency/Department Head elect to use accrued vacation and/or compensatory time off to replace a decrease experienced in the employee's regular biweekly salary due to a prorated holiday.
b.	Less than full time employees shall be compensated for hours worked on holidays defined herein at one and one-half times the normal hourly rate.
3.	For Services-As-Needed Employees
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-21-
SECTION 9. - contd.
a. Notwithstanding Section 9.A.4. and 9.B.4., services-as-needed employees shall be compensated only for hours worked on holidays defined in Section 9.A.1. and 2., and 9.B.1. and 2. at one and one-half times the normal hourly rate.
4.	In-Lieu Day Off
a.	Except in the case of employees regularly assigned to Zone 7 or the Sheriffs Department, when a holiday as set forth in paragraph A or B hereof, other than a day proclaimed by the President of the United States or the Governor of the State of California as a nationwide or statewide public holiday, day of fast, day of mourning, or day of thanksgiving and approved in writing by three or more members of the Board of Supervisors, falls on an employee's regularly scheduled day off, such employee may be given an in-lieu day off (a less than full-time employee will receive a prorated in-lieu day off) within 26 pay periods to be scheduled by mutual agreement of the employee and the Agency/Department, or the Agency/Department Head may compensate the employee in cash pursuant to Section 9.F.1.a. or 9.F.2.a. Should an in-lieu day off not be taken within 26 pay periods, the employee shall be compensated in cash pursuant to Section 9.F.1.a. or Section 9.F.2.a.
b.	In the case of employees regularly assigned to Zone 7 or the Sheriffs Department, when a holiday as set forth in paragraph A. or B. hereof, other than a day proclaimed by the President of the United States or Governor of the State of California as a nationwide or statewide public holiday, day of fast, day of mourning, or day of thanksgiving and approved in writing by three or more members of the Board of Supervisors, falls on an employee's regularly scheduled day off, such employee shall be compensated in cash (a less than full-time employee will receive prorated compensation in cash) at the rate of time and one-half the employee's normal hourly rate.
G.	ELIGIBILITY FOR HOLIDAY PAY. To be eligible for holiday pay, except pay for a floating holiday, an employee must be on paid status the employee's scheduled workday before and the employee's scheduled workday after the holiday.
H.	CONFORMITY WITH STATE HOLIDAYS. In the event the Legislature shall amend Section 6700 of the Government Code to change the date of a holiday listed in paragraph A. or B. hereof is observed, employees subject to this Memorandum of Understanding shall celebrate said holiday in conformity with the State. This paragraph shall not be applied so as to increase or decrease the number of holidays set forth in paragraph A. or B. hereof.
I.	EXEMPT WORK SITUATIONS. Time spent in study courses, seminars and meetings of professional groups is exempt from the provisions of this section.
J.	HOLIDAYS FOR COURT STAFF. Employees of the District Attorney's Office and the Public Defender's Office are excluded from the provisions of Section 9.A. and 9.B., but shall be entitled to paid holidays for days observed as judicial holidays pursuant to state law and the California Rules of Court. In the event that the total number of judicial holidays in any fiscal year shall be less than the number of County holidays, including the floating holidays, specified in Section 9.A. and 9.B., these employees shall be entitled to as many in-lieu holidays as is necessary to make the number of their holidays equal to the number of holidays specified in Section 9.A. and 9.B. An employee shall not qualify for an in-lieu holiday granted in exchange for the Section 9.A. and 9.B. floating holidays unless the employee was hired prior to April 1 of any fiscal year. An employee shall not qualify for an in-lieu holiday granted in exchange for any other holiday listed in Section 9.A. and 9.B. unless the employee was hired on or before the date of the Section 9.A or 9.B. holiday not observed as judicial holiday. An in-lieu holiday must be scheduled by mutual agreement of the employee and the Agency/Department Head, and taken within the fiscal year, except that the Agency/Department Head may in writing authorize the in-lieu holiday to be carried over for one fiscal year only.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-22-
SECTION 9. - contd.
K. HOLIDAYS FOR CLERK-RECORDER STAFF. Employees of the Clerk-Recorder’s Office are excluded from the provisions of Section 9.A. and 9.B., but shall be entitled to paid holidays for days observed as judicial holidays pursuant to state law. In the event that the total number of judicial holidays in any fiscal year shall be less than the number of County holidays, including the floating holidays, specified in Section 9.A. and 9.B., these employees shall be entitled to as many in-lieu holidays as is necessary to make the number of their holidays equal to the number of holidays specified in Section 9.A. and 9.B. An employee shall not qualify for an in-lieu holiday granted in exchange for the Section 9.A. and 9.B. floating holidays unless the employee was hired prior to April 1 of any fiscal year. An employee shall not qualify for an in-lieu holiday granted in exchange for any other holiday listed in Section 9.A. and 9.B. unless the employee was hired on or before the date of the Section 9.A or 9.B. holiday not observed as judicial holiday. An in-lieu holiday must be scheduled by mutual agreement of the employee and the Agency/Department Head, and taken within the fiscal year, except that the Agency/Department Head may in writing authorize the in-lieu holiday to be carried over for one fiscal year only.
SECTION 10.	VACATION LEAVE
Services-As-Needed employees working in classifications which are enumerated in Appendix B are excluded from the provisions of Section 10.
Employees in the service of the County shall receive a vacation entitlement or accrue vacation as specified below. Vacation pay shall be granted only for those days or fractions thereof on which employees would have been regularly scheduled to work and would have worked but for the vacation period. An employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than the normal work week for the job classification shall accrue vacation leave or vacation entitlement accordingly. Vacation accrual or vacation entitlement shall be prorated each pay period based upon a proration of the hours worked within that pay period to the normal full-time pay period for the job classification.
A.	VACATION ACCRUAL
1.	EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1,1998 (for time earned in 1997) - FOR PERSONS EMPLOYED ON OR BEFORE JANUARY 1, 1956. Except for an employee in a classification enumerated in Appendix B, each person in the service of the County whose employment began on or before January 1, 1956, shall receive as of January 1 of each year a vacation entitlement of .769 working days at full pay for each full-time biweekly pay period employed during the immediately preceding calendar year.
2.	EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1,1999 (for time earned in 1998) - FOR PERSONS EMPLOYED ON OR BEFORE JANUARY 1, 1956. Except for an employee in a classification enumerated in Appendix B, each person in the service of the County whose employment began on or before January 1, 1956, shall receive as of January 1 of each year a vacation entitlement of .962 working days at full pay for each full-time biweekly pay period employed during the immediately preceding calendar year.
3.	FOR PERSONS EMPLOYED AFTER JANUARY 1, 1956. Except for an employee in a classification enumerated in Appendix B, each person in the service of the County whose employment began after January 1,1956 shall accrue vacation leave according to the following schedules.
a.	Two weeks accrual - .385 working days for each full-time biweekly pay period on paid status until completion of 104 full-time biweekly pay periods (4 years) of continuous employment.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-23-
SECTION 10.-contd.
b.	Three weeks accrual - .577 working days for each full-time biweekly pay period on paid status after completion of 104 full-time biweekly pay periods (4 years) of continuous employment and until completion of 286 full-time biweekly pay periods (11 years) of continuous employment
c.	Four weeks accrual - .769 working days for each full-time biweekly pay period on paid status after completion of 286 full-time biweekly pay periods (11 years) of continuous employment and until completion of 520 biweekly pay periods (20 years) of continuous employment.
d.	Five weeks accrual - .962 working days for each full-time biweekly pay period on paid status after completion of 520 biweekly pay periods (20 years) of continuous employment.
B.	CASH PAYMENT IN LIEU OF VACATION LEAVE.
1.	For persons employed on or before January 1,1956.
a.	An employee who leaves the County service for any reason shall be paid at the biweekly or hourly rate for each classification as set forth in Appendix A, for unused vacation accrued to the date of his/her separation, provided that such entitlement shall not exceed vacation earned during the two years of employment preceding such separation.
b.	Employees shall have the primary responsibility to schedule and take sufficient vacation leave to reduce their accrued vacation leave balances to levels which do not exceed the amount for which they can receive cash payment hereunder upon termination. Agency/Department Heads shall make a reasonable effort to accommodate written vacation leave requests submitted by employees which state that the purpose of such requests is to reduce accrued vacation leave balances to the level which can be paid
•	for in cash upon termination.
2.	For persons employed after January 1,1956.
a.	An employee who accrues vacation leave pursuant to subsection 10.A.3. and who leaves the County service for any reason shall be paid at the biweekly or hourly rate for each classification as set forth in Appendix A, for unused vacation accrued to the date of his/her separation, provided that such entitlement shall not exceed the employee’s applicable maximum vacation balance as set forth in subsection 10.C.
b.	Employees shall have the primary responsibility to schedule and take sufficient vacation leave to reduce their accrued vacation leave balances to levels which do not exceed the amount for which they can receive cash payment hereunder upon termination. Agency/Department Heads shall make a reasonable effort to accommodate written vacation leave requests submitted by employees which state that the purpose of such requests is to reduce accrued vacation leave balances to the level which can be paid for in cash upon termination.
C.	LIMITATION ON UNUSED VACATION LEAVE BALANCES. Maximum vacation leave balances allowable prior to the pay period containing January 1 of each year beginning in the year 2002, shall be no more than two times the employees vacation accrual rate, and shall be as follows:
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-24-
SECTION 10. - contd.
Vacation Accrual Rate Maximum Balance in in Pay Period Prior to Pay Period Containing
January 1	January 1
10 days	20	days
15 days	30	days
20 days	40	days
25 days	50	days
D.	DATE WHEN VACATION CREDIT STARTS. Vacation credit shall begin on the first day of employment.
E.	CHANGEOVER TO MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE VACATION BALANCE AND USE OF PREVIOUSLY ACCRUED VACATION. Until December 22, 2001, employees who accrue vacation under subsection 10.A.3. will not be subject to maximum vacation balances, and in the event that they leave the County service for any reason, they shall be paid at the applicable biweekly or hourly rate as set forth in Appendix “A” for unused vacation accrued to the date of separation, but not to exceed vacation earned during the two years preceding such separation. Employees shall have the primary responsibility to schedule and take sufficient vacation leave to reduce their accrued vacation leave balances to levels which do not exceed the amount for which they can receive cash payment hereunder upon termination or which will avoid a downward adjustment on January 1, 2002. As of the pay period containing January 1, 2002 and every such pay period containing January 1 thereafter, the vacation leave balance of any employee which exceeds the maximum allowable vacation balance will be adjusted downward to the maximum allowable vacation balance level (by placing the excess vacation in a departmental catastrophic sick leave pool) and the County will thereafter have no obligation with respect to the vacation leave affected by the adjustment. Department Heads shall make a reasonable effort to accommodate written vacation leave requests submitted by employees which state that the purpose of such request is to reduce accrued vacation leave balances to the level which can be paid for in cash upon termination or to avoid a downward adjustment.
F.	WHEN FIRST VACATION IS DUE. Vacation credit and the first vacation leave for any employee j shall be due only after the completion of at least the equivalent of 130 full-time working days or the equivalent of 13 full-time pay periods of employment. For purposes of this section, "working day" shall mean any day upon which an employee would normally be required to work.
G.	MAXIMUM VACATION LEAVE. An employee shall be allowed to take two times his/her annual vacation accrual during any calendar year, provided that he/she has accumulated sufficient unused vacation leave. An employee, with the permission of his/her Agency/Department Head, may take vacation in excess of two times his/her annual vacation accrual during any calendar year, if he/she has accumulated sufficient unused vacation leave.
H.	EFFECT OF LEAVE WITHOUT PAY ON VACATION CREDIT. No vacation credit shall be earned during the period when an employee is absent on leave without pay.
I.	EFFECT OF ABSENCE ON CONTINUOUS SERVICE. Absence on authorized leave with or without ; pay, time during which a person is laid off because his/her services are not needed, and time during which a person is temporarily not employed by the County, if followed by reemployment within three years in the case of persons reemployed on or after July 1, 1975, or if followed by reemployment within one year in the case of persons reemployed prior to July 1,1975, shall not be considered as an interruption of continuous service for the purpose of this section, but the period of time such employee is absent on authorized leave without pay or so laid off or so temporarily not employed shall not be counted in computing such years of continuous employment for the purpose of this section, provided
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-25-
SECTION 10. - contd.
that persons who wer;e reemployed prior to July 1, 1975, after one year and within three years from the date such break in service commenced shall, after completing ten years of uninterrupted service following such reemployment, receive credit for all prior service in determining eligibility for vacation entitlement at the rate of .769 working days for each biweekly period.
J.	WHEN VACATION LEAVE MAY BE TAKEN. Paid leave may be granted only for those days or fractions thereof on which an employee would have been regularly scheduled to work and would have worked but for the vacation leave.	•
1.	Vacation Seniority. Except for employees assigned to the Sheriffs' Department, an employee's seniority for vacation seniority purposes begins once he/she enters a vacation scheduling unit within his/her classification. Should an employee change his/her scheduling unit and/or classification, the seniority accrual for vacation purposes starts over. Promotion within a flexible staffed position for purposes of vacation seniority will not be considered a change in classification.
For employees assigned to the Sheriffs Department, an employee's seniority for vacation seniority purposes begins once he/she enters the Sheriffs Department or continues upon reinstatement to the same classification excluding time not spent in the Sheriffs Department. Should an employee change his/her classification, the seniority accrual for vacation purposes starts over. Promotion within a flexible staffed position for purposes of vacation seniority will not be considered a change in classification. If a tie breaker is needed, the following applies:
total department time (less leave without pay)
total County time (less leave without pay) test administration number
score on exam
date stamp on application (received in County Personnel) coin toss
2.	For Full-time Employees. Except as provided in paragraph 4 hereof, vacation shall be scheduled by mutual agreement of the employee and the Agency/Department Head. Except for employees assigned to the Sheriffs' Department, in the event of conflicting requests from employees, the matter shall be decided in favor of the employee having the longest County service in a classification within a vacation scheduling unit. For employees assigned to the Sheriffs' Department, in the event of conflicting requests from employees, the matter shall be decided in favor of the employee who meets the criteria stated in subsection 10.J.1 above for the first three segments requested. The remaining two segments, if requested, shall follow the process stated in the following paragraph.
Subsequent vacation requests within the same calendar year shall be resolved in favor of the most senior employee who has not, by virtue of his/her senior position, previously had such a conflict resolved in his/her favor during the calendar year. In the event of vacation schedule conflict among employees, all of whom have, by virtue of their senior position, had such conflicts resolved in their favor during the calendar year, the senior employee who has had the least number of such conflicts resolved in his/her favor shall prevail. When written submission of a vacation request is required pursuant to this paragraph 2., the Agency/Department Head shall respond within 20 calendar days in writing or shall schedule the vacation requested by the employee.
3.	For Part-time Employees. Any employee scheduled to work less than the full-time workweek and two-fifths or more time for the job classification may, at the discretion of the Agency/Department Head be included in a vacation scheduling unit with full-time employees in the same job classification, and in such cases both the full-time and the less than full-time employees shall have conflicting requests resolved according to the procedure indicated herein.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-26-
SECTION 10. - contd.
4.	Alternative Scheduling Procedure. In the event that vacation scheduling pursuant to paragraph 2. or 3. hereof is impractical due to the size of the agency/department vacation scheduling unit involved or other reasons, the following procedures shall apply. In a month established by the Agency/Department Head, any employee may submit up to three choices of preferred vacation period for the subsequent 12 months. The Agency/Department Head shall approve such choices on the basis of employee seniority as set forth in paragraph 2. hereof. The Agency/Department Head shall post a list of approved and scheduled vacations no later than four weeks following the end of the designated month in which the vacation requests were due. Any employee who fails to submit a choice or choices or any new employee who misses the sign-up period for the agency/department shall schedule vacations by mutual agreement pursuant to paragraphs 2. or 3. hereof provided that such vacation scheduled by mutual agreement shall not supersede any vacation scheduled by submission.
In the administration of this paragraph, the Agency/Department Head shall post seniority lists; lists of the number of employees by classification allowed to be on vacation at one time or for any period; and blank calendars or other means which shall make it possible for employees to submit their three choices and to determine which employees have applied for which vacation periods.
5.	Vacation Leave Segments. An employee shall be allowed to divide his/her vacation leave in any calendar year into five segments. An Agency/Department Head, at his/her discretion, may grant an employee additional segments of vacation increments of at least one hour or more. These segments are to be in addition to any segments of vacation leave used as personal leave as defined in Section 10.K. This section excludes any requests for time off which come under the Floating Holiday provisions specified in Section 9.B.3.
K.	PERSONAL LEAVE. An employee shall be allowed two days in any calendar year from his/her regular vacation allowance for personal leave. An Agency/Department Head shall not deny a request for this leave except for reasons critical to the operation of his/her agency/department. Such personal leave shall be in segments of one hour or more.
L.	RATE OF VACATION PAY. Compensation during vacation shall be at the rate of compensation which such person would have been entitled to receive, including premium pay, if in active service during such vacation period.
M.	VACATION SELLBACK. Effective July 1, 2001, employees may receive equivalent cash payment for up to 5 vacation days per fiscal year. Effective July 1, 2002, employees accruing at least 20 days of vacation may receive equivalent cash payment for up to 10 days per fiscal year. This benefit shall be prorated for part-time employees based on the proportion of the normal 37.5 or 40 hour workweek for which the employee is regularly scheduled to work. In lieu of, or in addition to the foregoing, an employee may have accrued vacation leave credited against his/her transition pay obligation to the County. Vacation sellback under this section is in addition to the amount of sellback that can be used to purchase Long-Term Disability Insurance under Section 32. Requests for vacation sellback are irrevocable.
N.	VACATION PURCHASE PLAN. All full-time employees subject to this MOU, excluding employees in classifications enumerated in Appendix B and Appendix D may elect to purchase one or two additional weeks of vacation over and above their regular entitlement as set forth in paragraph A hereof. The additional week(s) may be purchased in the following manner: On or before the biweekly pay period nearest October 1 of any year, an eligible employee shall submit a written request to the Agency/Department Head, stating his/her desire to purchase one or two extra weeks of vacation. Such vacation must be purchased in increments of one or two weeks. The County shall then pay such employee 97.38% of his/her regular salary for one additional week or 94.76% of his/her regular salary for two additional weeks, as set forth in Appendix A until the biweekly pay period ending nearest June 30. (The 2.62% or 5.24% reduction is the value of one or two week(s) of vacation
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-27-
SECTION 10.-contd.
prorated over approximately nine months.) The additional vacation, once purchased, may be taken with the employee's regular vacation entitlement.
1.	Except for Personal Leave granted under Section 10.1., purchased vacation must be utilized before vacation balances accrued pursuant to Section 10.A. are utilized. In the event that an employee has exhausted vacation balances accrued pursuant to Section 10.A., then purchased vacation may be utilized for Personal leave granted under Section 10.1.
2.	For purposes of cash payment of vacation leave, vacation purchased pursuant to this section shall be combined with vacation accrued pursuant to Section 10.A. Said combined vacation balance shall be subject to the cash payment limitations of Section 10.B. hereof.
3.	Employees may not elect to purchase additional week(s) of vacation if their purchased vacation balance in October exceeds five days.
4.	Employees who change status from eligible status to purchase vacation to a non eligible status will be paid for any purchased vacation balance.
O.	EXTRA WEEK OF UNPAID LEAVE. A part-time employee in a classification enumerated in Appendix D and, for the term of this Memorandum of Understanding only, all other part-time employees subject to this MOU, after one calendar year from date of employment may schedule one week of unpaid leave each calendar year in conjunction with an approved vacation leave. The unpaid leave shall be taken in one segment. The scheduling of this unpaid leave shall be subject to the vacation scheduling provisions contained herein. This unpaid leave shall not reduce the regular biweekly dental plan contribution nor the health plan contribution paid by the County for such employees.
P.	VACATION TRANSFER. Married couples or domestic partners, employed by the County, may elect to transfer up to five of their accrued vacation leave balances to their spouse or domestic partner (upon submission of an affidavit as defined in Appendix E) per each event of maternity, paternity and adoption.
Q.	CONTINUATION OF SECTION. This Section 10. shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the expiration of the other sections of this Memorandum of Understanding on August 19, 2000, as provided in Section 36., and unless otherwise agreed to by the County, shall be incorporated into the successor Memorandum of Understanding.
R.	EMPLOYEE ENTRY INTO BARGAINING UNITS COVERED BY THIS MOU. Employees who enter a bargaining unit covered by this Agreement after January 1, 2002 shall have two full calendar years to reduce his/her vacation balance to the maximum allowable, unless the employee is coming from a bargaining unit where the "maximum allowable vacation balance" is already applicable. After two full calendar years, the vacation leave balance of any employee which exceeds the maximum balance allowable will be adjusted downward to the maximum balance (by placing the excess vacation in a departmental catastrophic sick leave pool) and the County will thereafter have no obligation with respect to the vacation leave affected by the adjustment. Department Heads shall make a reasonable effort to accommodate written vacation leave requests submitted by employees which state that the purpose of such request is to reduce accrued vacation leave balances to the level which can be paid for in cash upon termination or to avoid a downward adjustment.
SECTION 11.	SICK LEAVE
Services-As-Needed employees working in classifications which are enumerated in Appendix B are excluded from the provisions of Section 11.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-28-
SECTION 11.-contd.
A.	SICK LEAVE DEFIN.ED. As used in this section, "Sick Leave" means leave of absence of an employee because of any of the following: (i) illness or injury which renders him/her incapable of performing his/her work or duties for the County; (ii) his/her exposure to contagious disease; and (iii) routine medical or dental appointment of the employee.
B.	EMPLOYEE DEFINED. As used in this section, "Employee" means any person, except for employees in classifications enumerated in Appendix B, holding a regular, provisional, or temporary appointment in the County service, and otherwise subject to the provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding.
C.	SELF-INFLICTED INJURY EXCLUDED. In no case shall absence due to purposefully self-inflicted incapacity or injury be deemed as a basis for granting either sick leave or sick leave with pay under the provisions of this section.
D.	SICK LEAVE - DAYS OR FRACTIONS OF DAYS. Paid leave may be granted only for those days or fractions thereof on which an employee would have been regularly scheduled to work and would have worked but for the sick leave.
E.	CUMULATIVE SICK LEAVE PLAN
1.	Accumulation of Sick Leave
a.	For full-time employees - 40 hour workweek: Each employee shall accumulate sick leave with pay entitlement at the rate of one-half workday for each full biweekly pay period on paid status up to a maximum accumulation of 155 days of unused sick leave with pay entitlement.
b.	For full-time employees - 37.5 hour workweek: Each employee shall accumulate sick leave with pay entitlement at the rate of one-half workday for each full biweekly pay period on paid status up to a maximum accumulation of 155 days of unused sick leave with pay entitlement.
c.	For part-time employees - 40 hour workweek base: Each employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than the full-time 40 hour workweek base shall accrue sick leave pursuant to Section 11.E.1.a. above, except that the sick leave accrual shall be prorated each pay period based upon the proportion of the hours :	worked within a pay period to the 40 hour workweek base up to a maximum
accumulation of 155 days of unused sick leave with pay entitlement.
d.	For part-time employees - 37.5 hour workweek base: Each employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than the full-time 37.5 hour workweek base shall accrue sick leave pursuant to Section 11.E.1.b. above, except that the sick leave accrual shall be prorated each pay period based upon the proportion of the hours worked within a pay period to the 37.5 hour workweek base up to a maximum accumulation of 155 days of unused sick leave with pay entitlement.
F.	RESTORATION OF CUMULATIVE SICK LEAVE BALANCES. An employee laid off due to a reduction in force who is, within three years of the date of layoff, returned to County service from layoff status shall have the balance of unused cumulative sick leave accrued pursuant to Section 11 .E., restored to him/her for use as provided in this section.
G.	CONVERSION OF SICK LEAVE TO VACATION. When an employee's sick leave balance accrued pursuant to Section 11.E. hereof, reaches 155 days, 5 days shall be deducted from said sick leave balance and shall be converted to 1 day of vacation. Said vacation shall be added to vacation balances accumulated pursuant to Section 10. Vacation Leave, and shall thereafter be subject to the provisions of Section 10. Vacation Leave.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-29-
SECTION 11.-contd.
H.	SICK LEAVE CREDIT AT RETIREMENT. County employees who are members of the Alameda County Employees’ Retirement System and who retire, shall be credited for 50 percent of their unused paid sick leave accumulated as of the date of their retirement, up to a maximum credit of 62.5 days.
I.	MAJOR MEDICAL SUPPLEMENTAL PAID SICK LEAVE.
1.	LIMITS ON DURATION OF MAJOR MEDICAL SUPPLEMENTAL PAID SICK LEAVE.
a.	For employees who, as of June 25, 1979, completed the equivalent of 26 pay periods but less than 130 pay periods, the maximum aggregate lifetime eligibility for major medical supplemental paid sick leave shall be as follows:
1)	22 days for those employed on a full time basis as of 6/25/79.
2)	22 days prorated based upon a proportion of the hours worked in the pay
period immediately preceding 6/25/79 for those employed on a less than full time basis.
b.	For employees who, as of June 25, 1979, completed the equivalent of 130 pay periods of continuous employment, the maximum aggregate lifetime eligibility for major medical supplemental paid sick leave shall be as follows:
1)	44 days for those employed on a full time basis as of 6/25/79.
2)	44 days prorated based upon a proportion of the hours worked in the pay
period immediately preceding 6/25/79 for those employed on a less than full time basis.
2	CRITERIA WHICH MUST BE MET BEFORE GRANTING MAJOR MEDICAL SUPPLEMENTAL PAID SICK LEAVE. For employees continuously employed before July 1, 1975, who were otherwise granted the one-time non-recurring sick leave bonus made available to such employees, an Agency/Department Head in his/her sole discretion, may grant major medical supplemental paid sick leave in those instances in which:
a.	the employee exhausted paid cumulative sick leave entitlement accrued pursuant to subsection 11 .E hereof.
b.	the employee's absence is caused by a serious injury or illness requiring prolonged absence from work,
c.	the work or duties of the employee requesting such paid leave are being performed by others in the employee's work unit and another person has not been hired or assigned to the work unit to perform such duties.
d.	the injury or illness was not incurred in the course of employment, AND
e.	the employee has not incurred a break in service subsequent to June 24,1979.
3.	MAJOR MEDICAL SUPPLEMENTAL PAID SICK LEAVE. The Department Head's determination to deny major medical supplemental paid sick leave shall be final and non-grievable.
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-30-
SECTION 11.-contd.
J.	SICK LEAVE USAGE REPORT - S.L.I.C.E. REPORT. This is to clarify that the Countywide sick leave average as stated in this report is a tool to trigger the review of an employee's attendance record. Exceeding the Countywide average is not in and of itself an indicator of sick leave abuse for an individual employee.
No employee shall be placed on sick leave review unless he/she has first received an oral warning that his/her individual attendance record is marginal, followed by a written confirmation. Upon request, an employee shall be given a profile documenting his/her attendance record. If an employee is placed on sick leave review, he/she is to be provided with a written statement explaining the reason and the length of time his/her attendance is to be monitored.
K.	MEDICAL REPORT. The Agency/Department Head, as a condition of granting sick leave with pay, may require medical evidence of sickness or injury in the form of a statement from an employee's physician acceptable to the agency/department when the employee is absent for more than three consecutive working days or when the agency/department head determines within his/her discretion that there are indications of excessive use of sick leave or sick leave abuse.
A diagnosis is not required as medical evidence of sickness or injury unless it is reasonable to believe that the employee's condition may endanger the health or safety of other employees and/or the public.
L.	FAMILY SICK LEAVE.
1.	Emergency Leave - Sickness in Immediate Family. Leave of absence with pay because of sickness or injury in the immediate family of a person in the County service shall be granted by the Agency/Department Head for up to 5 days per calendar year to care for immediate family members or during the time reasonably necessary to arrange for care of the sick person by others, including emergency medical and dental appointments but not to exceed the amount of time which the person would be authorized for sick leave in Subsection E. Time taken for leave of absence under the provisions of this Subsection shall be deducted from the sick leave allowable for such person. For the purpose of this Subsection, "immediate family" means, mother, step-mother, father, step-father, husband, wife, domestic partner (as defined in Appendix E), son, step-son, daughter, step-daughter, foster parent, foster child, mother-in-law, father-in-law, or any other person sharing the relationship of in loco parentis; and, when living in i the household of the employee, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, and grandparents.
‘ 2. Routine Medical Care for Dependent Children/Dependent Adult. An employee shall be s	entitled to paid sick leave accrued pursuant to Subsection E hereof in order to accompany the
|	employee's dependent children living in the household of the employee and a dependent adult
j	during routine medical or dental appointments, but not to exceed an aggregate of 32 hours
I	within any calendar year. For the purpose of this Subsection, a dependent adult is defined as
:	any individual who meets the definition of "immediate family" as set forth in Subsection 1.
above. The determination of an Agency/Department Head that a medical or dental appointment was routine rather than emergency shall not be grievable.
( 3. Effective January 1, 2000, employees are eligible to use, in any calendar year, the amount of sick leave earned in a six month period (up to 6.5 days) to attend to family members who are ill. For the purposes of this subsection, family members are defined as the parents, spouse, or ;	child (biological, step, foster, legal ward, in loco parentis) of the employee. Leave used under
i	section 11.L.1. Emergency Leave and/or 11.L.2. Routine Medical Care will be deducted from
! the entitlement provided under this subsection.
M.	INDUSTRIAL SICK LEAVE BENEFIT. If an employee is incapacitated by sickness or injury received in the course of his/her employment by the County, such employee shall be entitled to pay as provided herein.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-31-
SECTION 11.-contd.
1.	Employees Excluded. The provisions of this section do not apply to safety members who are subject to the provisions of California Labor Code Section 4850 and all incumbents of positions in classes designated services as needed or by the letter N.
2.	Amount and Duration of Payment.
a.	Full-time employees: Such employees shall be entitled to receive industrial sick leave wage continuation commencing with the fourth calendar day of the incapacity. The industrial sick leave wage continuation shall be equal to the difference between 80% of his/her normal salary and the amount of any Worker's Compensation temporary disability payments to which such employee is entitled during such incapacity. This period shall not exceed one calendar year from the date of sickness or injury resulting in the incapacity. Following one calendar year, available leave balances may be granted to supplement temporary disability payments to provide the disabled employee a total of 80% of salary (the amount of leave necessary for this purpose is computed in each case by the County Auditor's Office) unless the employee provides written notice to the Agency/Department Head to limit the integration of such leaves. Available leave balances shall include sick leave, vacation leave, compensating time off, floating holidays, and holiday in-lieu time.
In the event that the period of the incapacity exceeds 14 calendar days, the employee so incapacitated shall be granted industrial sick leave wage continuation at the rate of 100% of his/her normal salary for the first three calendar days of such incapacity. If the period of the incapacity does not exceed 14 calendar days, the employee so incapacitated will be eligible to receive any available leave balance for scheduled workdays for the first three workdays of such incapacity.
b.	Part-time employees: Section 11.L.2.a. above applies to part-time employees, but shall be on a prorated basis.
3.	When Payments Shall be Denied. Payments shall not be made pursuant to subsection 11 .L.2. to an employee:
a.	Who does not apply for or who does not receive temporary disability benefits under the Worker's Compensation Law,
b.	Whose injury or illness has become permanent, and stationary,
c.	Whose injury or illness, although continuing to show improvement, is unlikely to improve sufficiently to permit the employee to return to work in his/her usual and customary position, and the employee has been declared a "Qualified Injured Worker" (QIW) and referred to vocational rehabilitation,
d.	Who is retired on permanent disability and/or disability retirement pension,
e.	Who unreasonably refuses to accept other County employment for which he/she is not substantially disabled,
f.	Whose injury or illness is the result of failure to observe County health or safety regulations or the commission of a criminal offense,
g.	Whose injury or illness has been aggravated or delayed in healing by reasons of the failure of the employee to have received medical treatment or to have followed medical advice, except where such treatment or advice has not been sought or followed by reason of the religious beliefs of the employee, and
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-32-
SECTION 11.-contd.
h.	Whose jnjury or illness is a recurrence or reinjury of an earlier job-related injury or illness, or is contributed to by a susceptibility or predisposition to such injury or illness related to an earlier job-related injury or illness.
4.	Fringe Benefit Entitlement During Industrial Injury Leave. Employees receiving Workers' Compensation temporary disability benefits and supplementing such payments with accrued paid leave or industrial sick leave wage continuation shall maintain and accrue all benefits to which they are entitled under this Memorandum of Understanding at 100% of their regularly scheduled biweekly hours immediately preceding an industrial illness or injury.
This benefit shall be administered in accordance with State Worker's Compensation laws.
5.	Leave for Medical Treatment. Employees with an approved Workers' Compensation claim who ( have returned to work and are required by their physician to undergo therapy diagnostic tests or I. treatment due to an industrial injury/illness shall receive Industrial Leave with pay under the following conditions:
a.	Treatments are being paid under Workers'Compensation;
b.	The therapy diagnostic tests or treatment falls within the employee's normal working hours;
c.	The leave applies only to the actual treatment time and reasonable travel time. In no event shall leave under this subsection and the employee's actual work time exceed the employee's normally scheduled workday.
N.	SERVICES-AS-NEEDED AND N-DESIGNATED CLASSIFICATIONS: HEALTH AND DENTAL ENTITLEMENT. Employees in classes designated Services-As-Needed or by the letter N who are absent from work due to an industrial injury or illness, who had been receiving health and dental benefits, and who would otherwise have worked and continued to receive such benefits but for the . ■ industrial illness or injury, shall continue to be eligible to receive health and dental benefits at the i same level and as set forth in Section 14.
SECTION 12.	PREMIUM CONDITIONS
A.	SPLIT SHIFT. Except as provided otherwise in paragraph B., below, any employee required to work a split shift shall be paid at a rate of five percent over and above his/her regular biweekly or hourly rate of pay for the entire shift so worked. For purposes of this paragraph "split shift" is defined as any daily tour of duty divided into two work periods of time and taking more than nine and one-half consecutive hours to complete.
B.	NIGHT SHIFT. Employees who are required to work at least five-eighths of their normal daily tour of duty after 4:30 p.m. and before 8:00 a.m. shall be paid at a rate of five percent over and above their normal biweekly or hourly rate of pay for the entire shift so worked.
C.	BILINGUAL PAY. Upon the recommendation of the Agency/Department Head and the approval of the Director of Human Resource Services, a person occupying a position designated as requiring fluency in a language other than English shall receive an additional $30.00 per pay period compensation. A person occupying such a position and having proficiency in three or more languages shall receive $35.00 per pay period, provided that such a person is required to utilize such . additional languages in the course of his/her duties for the County.
Bilingual pay for employees within the Social Services Agency carrying a caseload at least 25% of which is comprised of non-English speaking clients shall be paid an additional $35.00 per pay period. If an employee's caseload falls below the 25% threshold for more than one full calendar month,
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-33-
SECTION 12.-contd.
bilingual pay will revert to the lower level premium effective the first day of the first full pay period in the second calendar month following the month in which the caseload fell below the threshold. Conversely, payment at the higher level will begin on the first pay period in the second calendar month following the month in which the caseload exceeded the 25% threshold. The Agency will make every effort to assign non-English speaking caseloads to bilingual workers.
SECTION 13.	SPECIAL PERFORMANCE PAY
A.	FOR STANDBY DUTY. Unless otherwise provided in the Salary Ordinance, employees who are required to perform standby duty shall be compensated at the rate of one-eighth pay for such duty.
B.	FOR CALL-BACK. An employee called back to work from either standby duty or nonstandby status, shall be compensated at the premium overtime rate for such work, provided, however, that the minimum compensation shall be two hours at the overtime rate.
An employee called back to work because of a shift change shall be compensated at the premium rate for only the hours worked prior to the beginning of the employee's regular shift. An employee notified of a shift change before going off duty is not eligible for call back pay.
In addition, such compensation shall be provided to employees in the classification of Child Welfare Worker I (6740) and Child Welfare Worker II (6745) when assigned to the Social Services Agency Emergency Response Unit for services required by the employee's Agency Head to be provided over the telephone during times other than the employee's regularly scheduled work hours.
C.	FOR TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT TO A HIGHER LEVEL POSITION. An employee specifically assigned on a temporary basis to a higher level position in which there is no appointed incumbent or in which the appointed incumbent is on paid or unpaid leave, shall be compensated at the pay rate for the higher level position provided that all of the following criteria are met:
1.	The full range of duties of the higher level position, except the preparation of performance evaluations, has been specifically assigned in writing by the Agency/Department Head.
2.	Assignment for out-of-class pay can only be made for the full shift of the higher level position. Under the provisions of this section, part-time employees can only meet the "full shift" criteria by being assigned to a higher level part-time position, or by being assigned to work the full shift of a full-time position.
3.	Compensation for temporary assignment to a higher level position shall be as follows:
a.	The service in such position exceeds 10 days in any 12 month period, and payment shall be retroactive to the first day of such services in a 12-month period.
b.	The rate of pay pursuant to this section shall be calculated as though the employee has been promoted to the higher level position. Since out-of-class pay is an assignment rather than a Civil Service appointment to the position, the employee is not eligible for step increases which apply to the higher level position, but continues to receive step increases for the lower level position, if the employee is otherwise eligible for step increases in the lower level position.
Notwithstanding this restriction, however, the employee’s rate of pay shall not be reduced during a continuous period of out-of-class assignment in the event that the salary range of the higher level position increases.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-34-
SECTION 13. - contd.
c.	An employee otherwise eligible for out-of-class pay who is absent on paid leave shall be paid at the out-of-class pay rate for such paid leave, provided that:
(1)	Another person has not been hired or assigned to work on an out-of-class pay basis to the same position to which the out-of-class pay assignment has been made for the same period.
(2)	Paid leave shall be granted at the higher level during an employee's assignment in the higher level, provided, however, if an absence exceeds five consecutive work days, the employee shall be paid for such absence in excess of five workdays at the employee's regular non-out-of-class rate.
d.	Work assignments shall not be changed or rotated among employees for the purpose of evading this requirement of providing greater compensation to an employee who would otherwise be eligible for such pay as provided herein.
e.	An employee in a 37-1/2 hour classification who is assigned to a 40-hour higher level position may at the Agency/Department Head's discretion continue to work 37-1/2 hours and is to be paid at the appropriate hourly rate of the higher level classification, as if the employee were, in fact, promoted (see subsection 13.C.3.b. above).
f.	Time worked in a higher level assignment in excess of the workweek affixed to the employee's Civil Service appointed position shall be compensated pursuant to the provisions of Section 7 hereof.
D.	REPORTING PAY. In the event that an employee is scheduled or directed to report for work and so reports and is told by the Agency/Department Head that his/her services are not required, he/she will be entitled to two hours pay at the straight time rate. If such employee is sent home through no fault of his/her own before completion of a shift, such employee will be entitled to a minimum of four hours of pay at the straight time rate, or straight time pay for hours actually worked, whichever is greater.
SECTION 14.	HEALTH AND DENTAL PLANS
A.	HEALTH PLANS
1.	HEALTH PLAN COVERAGE FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES
a.	For coverage from June 25, 2000 through January 31, 2001, the County shall contribute towards the monthly provider's charge for a comprehensive group health plan by a health maintenance organization or toward an indemnity health plan for eligible full-time employees, as well as their spouses/domestic partners and eligible dependents up to $181.70 per month for an employee with no dependents; up to $363.38 per month for an employee with one dependent; up to $514.18 per month for an employee with two or more dependents. This contribution shall apply to the health plan options listed below.
These benefit options shall be available as listed to the extent that the carrier continues to offer these benefits. The County shall give notice to the Union of such benefit V	changes. Upon receiving such notice, the Union may request to meet and confer
regarding a substitute benefit but if a substitute benefit is not possible, as determined by the County, the parties will meet and confer regarding the effect of such benefit changes.
1)	Indemnity Options:
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-35-
SECTION 14.-contd.
a)	Blue Cross Prudent Buyer Plan
b)	Spousal Coverage Plan
2)	Kaiser
3)	California Care
4)	Health Net - Plan T
b.	For coverage from February 1, 2001 through January 31, 2003, the County shall contribute toward the monthly provider's charge for a comprehensive group health plan by a health maintenance organization or toward one of the indemnity options for eligible full-time employees, as well as their spouses/domestic partners and eligible dependents, up to but not exceeding the actual monthly charges established by the Kaiser Health Foundation for the same benefit coverage provided in A.1. hereof. In no event shall the County contribution exceed the premium of the options selected.
c.	The County contribution toward the providers charge shall be the full-time contribution provided that the employee is on full-time paid status. If the employee is on paid status on less than a full-time basis, the County contribution shall be as specified in 14.A.2.
2.	HEALTH PLAN COVERAGE FOR EMPLOYEES REGULARLY SCHEDULED TO WORK LESS THAN THE NORMAL WORKWEEK: Any employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than the normal workweek for the job classification shall be entitled to elect coverage under either the comprehensive group health plan by a health maintenance organization or one of the indemnity options as provided in Section 14.A. for full-time employees; provided, however, that the employee is on paid status at least 50% of the normal full-time workweek for the job classification.
The County's contribution toward the provider's charge for such plan shall be the full-time contribution prorated each pay period based upon a proportion of the hours the employee is on paid status within that pay period to the normal full-time pay period for the job classification, provided the employee is on paid status at least 50% of the normal full-time biweekly pay period for the job classification.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, such employees who normally work at least 50% of the normal full-time biweekly schedule for the job classification, who were on the County payroll for the pay period beginning April 1, 1979, and who received 100% of the County contribution during said pay period, shall continue to be eligible for 100% of said contribution until (1) a break in part-time service, (2) a break in health plan coverage, (3) a change to full-time service from part-time service even if the employee reverts to part-time service, whichever shall first occur, but in no event shall said contribution exceed the County contribution for coverage of full-time employees in comparable classes.
3.	DUPLICATIVE COVERAGE: This applies to married County employees (and employees in domestic partnerships as defined in Appendix E) both employed by the County. The intent of this section limits County employees who are married or in a domestic partnership from both covering each other within the same health plan. Married County employees and employees in domestic partnerships, both employed by the County, shall be entitled to one choice from the following list of health plan coverages:
a.	Up to one full family Kaiser membership.
b.	Up to one full family Blue Cross membership.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-36-
SECTION 14.-contd.
c.	Up to one full family Health Net membership.
d.	Up to one full family Blue Cross membership (excluding California Care) together with
up to one Blue Cross spousal option.
e.	Up to one full family Kaiser membership or Health Net membership together with up to one full family Blue Cross membership (excluding Blue Cross spousal).
f.	Up to one full family Kaiser membership with up to one full family Health Net membership.
g.	Up to one full family California Care membership.
4	EFFECT OF AUTHORIZED LEAVE WITHOUT PAY ON HEALTH PLAN COVERAGE: Employees who were absent on authorized leave without pay, and whose health plan coverage was allowed to lapse for a duration of three months or less, will be able to re-enroll as a continuing member in the same plan under which they had coverage prior to the authorized leave by completing the appropriate enrollment cards within thirty calendar days of the date they return to work. The deductibles, maximums, and waiting periods shall be applied as though the employee had been continuously enrolled. The effective date of coverage will be based on guidelines established by the Auditor-Controller's Office.
Those whose health plan coverage was allowed to lapse for a duration greater than three months will be able to re-enroll within thirty calendar days of the date they return to work in the same manner as is allowed for new hires; however, employees re-enrolling in Blue Cross will be subject to medical review to determine evidence of good health and effective date of coverage will be determined by Blue Cross after all medical information is received and reviewed. Such employees will be subject to new deductibles, maximums, and waiting periods.
5.	30-DAY RE-ENROLLMENT: For employees who are enrolled in the Blue Cross Spousal plan, an employee whose spouse's or domestic partner's health plan coverage is no longer available, may, within thirty calendar days of such loss of coverage, enroll in one of the County's Blue Cross Health Plans.
6.	OPEN ENROLLMENT: Eligible employees may choose from among Kaiser, California Care, Health Net, and an Indemnity Plan during an Open Enrollment period in the Fall of 1997 and annually thereafter.
B.	DENTAL PLANS
1.	DENTAL PLAN COVERAGE FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES:
a. For coverage from June 25, 2000 through the remaining term of this Memorandum of Understanding, the County shall contribute the cost of the provider's charge for a dental plan for full-time employees and their dependents, including domestic partners (as defined in Appendix E) and their dependents, provided that the employee is on paid status at least 50 percent of the normal full time pay period for the job classification. Eligible full-time employees may elect any one of the following dental plan options. This contribution shall apply to the dental plan options listed below.
These benefit options shall be available as listed to the extent that the carrier continues to offer these benefits. The County shall give notice to the Union of such benefit changes. Upon receiving such notice, the Union may request to meet and confer regarding a substitute benefit but if a substitute benefit is not possible, as determined by the County, the parties will meet and confer regarding the effect of such benefit changes. The maximum annual benefit for each covered individual is $1,200.
1)	An indemnity dental plan
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-37-
SECTION 14.-contd.
2)	A pre-paid, closed panel dental plan
3)	A supplemental spousal plan
4)	Married County employees (and domestic partners as defined in Appendix E), both employed by the County, shall be entitled to one choice from the following list of dental plan coverages:
a)	Up to one full family indemnity plan together with up to one supplemental spousal plan.
b)	Up to one full family indemnity plan together with up to one full pre-paid closed panel dental plan.
c)	Up to one full pre-paid closed panel dental plan.
d)	Up to one full family indemnity plan.
2.	DENTAL PLAN COVERAGE FOR LESS THAN FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES AND SERVICES-AS-NEEDED EMPLOYEES: For coverage from August 24, 1997 through the remaining term of this Memorandum of Understanding, the County shall contribute the full cost of the provider's charge for a dental plan for Services-as-Needed and less than full-time employees and their dependents, provided, however, that the employee is on paid status at least 50% of the normal full-time workweek for the job classification.
The dental plan for less than full-time employees shall provide the same benefit coverage as in effect for full-time employees as described in B.1. above. To participate, an employee working in a classification normally subject to a 40-hour workweek must be on paid status at least 40 hours in each and every biweekly pay period and an employee working in a classification normally subject to a 37.5 hour workweek must be on paid status at least 37.5 hours in each and every biweekly pay period.
To establish eligibility to participate an employee must have been on paid status at least 37.5/40 hours in each of seven consecutive biweekly pay periods. After eligibility to participate is achieved, should an employee fail to have been on paid status at least 37.5/40 hours in any biweekly pay period for reasons other than those stated in Section 14.B.4.b., eligibility to participate must be re-established by subsequently being on paid status at least 37.5/40 hours in each of seven consecutive biweekly pay periods.
3.	DENTAL PLAN PREMIUM PAYMENT ON FINAL PAYCHECK BEFORE AUTHORIZED LEAVE WITHOUT PAY OR EMPLOYEE SEPARATION: The County shall make a dental plan premium payment on a final paycheck before an authorized leave without pay or an employee separation, provided that an employee is on paid status at least one-half of the scheduled hours for the employee's classification in the employee's last biweekly pay period. Therefore, an employee working in a classification normally subject to an 80-hour biweekly pay period must have been in paid status at least 40 hours in the last biweekly pay period.
4.	EFFECT OF AUTHORIZED LEAVE WITHOUT PAY: Employees who are granted a leave of absence without pay, whose dental plan coverage has lapsed for a period of ten pay periods or less, and who return to work on paid status of at least 37.5/40 hours per pay period shall retain dental plan eligibility as further provided:
a.	Full-time employees who were absent on authorized leave without pay, and whose dental plan coverage lapsed for a duration of ten pay periods or less, will be re-enrolled
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-38-
SECTION 14.-contd.
in the dental plan as a continuing member with respect to the application of deductibles, maximums and waiting periods. Coverage will begin on the 15th day following the end of the biweekly period in which the employee worked one week or more.
Those whose dental plan coverage lapsed for a duration greater than ten pay periods will be re-enrolled in the same manner as is allowed for new hires with respect to the application of deductibles, maximums and waiting periods. Coverage will begin on the 15th day following the end of the biweekly period in which the employee worked one week or more.
b.	Part-time employees and Services-as-Needed employees regularly scheduled to work 50% time or more per pay period who were absent on authorized leave without pay, whose dental plan coverage lapsed for a duration of ten pay periods or less, who return to work and work 50% time or more per pay period, will be re-enrolled as a continuing member in the dental plan with respect to the application of deductibles, maximums and waiting periods. Coverage will begin on the 15th day following the end of the biweekly period in which the employee worked one week or more.
Those whose dental plan coverage lapsed for a duration greater than ten pay periods will be required to re-establish eligibility for the dental plan (paid status at least 37.5/40 hours in each of seven consecutive pay periods), and then be re-enrolled in the same manner as allowed for regularly scheduled part-time and services-as-needed new hires with respect to the application of deductibles, maximum and waiting period. Note: Coverage begins at the 10th pay period, given that the minimum time worked is 50% of the full-time schedule for seven consecutive pay periods.
5.	30-DAY RE-ENROLLMENT: For employees who are enrolled in the Spousal Plan, an employee whose spouse's or domestic partner's dental plan coverage is no longer available, may, within thirty calendar days of such loss of coverage, enroll in a County dental plan as a new member.
6.	OPEN ENROLLMENT: Eligible employees may choose from among the options listed in 14.B.1.a. during an Open Enrollment period in the Fall of 2000 and annually thereafter. Premiums of all County dental options will be paid according to dependent status (single, two-party, or family).
C.	HEALTH AND DENTAL COVERAGE: The County and Union agree that this Memorandum of Understanding shall be reopened at the County's request to meet and confer to discuss and mutually agree upon possible changes related to the health and dental plans, benefits and contribution rates for dental coverage effective on or after January 6, 2001 and for health coverage effective on or after February 4, 2001.
SECTION 15.	ALLOWANCE FOR USE OF PRIVATE AUTOMOBILES
A.	MILEAGE RATES PAYABLE. Mileage allowance for authorized use of personal vehicles on County business shall be paid at the standard business rate as prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service. Mileage allowance shall be adjusted to reflect changes in this rate effective the first month following announcement of the changed rate by the Internal Revenue Service.
B.	MINIMUM ALLOWANCE. An employee who is required by his/her Agency/Department Head to use his/her private automobile at least eight days in any month on County business shall not receive less than $10 in that month for the use of his/her automobile.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-39-
SECTION 15.-contd.
C.	PREMIUM ALLOWANCE. An employee who is required by his/her Agency/Department Head to use his/her private automobile at least 10 days in any month and, in connection with such use, is also regularly required to carry in his/her private automobile, County records, manuals and supplies necessary to his/her job of such bulk and weight (20 lbs. or more) that they may not be transported by hand, shall be compensated an additional $12 per month for any such month.
D.	REIMBURSEMENT FOR PROPERTY DAMAGE. In the event that an employee, required or authorized by his/her Agency/Department Head to use a private automobile on County business, while so using the automobile, should incur property damage to the employee's automobile through no negligence of the employee, and the employee is unable to recover the cost of such property damage from either his/her own insurance company or from any other driver, or other source, such costs shall be paid to such employee of the County, in a sum not exceeding $500, provided that any claims the employee may have against his/her insurance company or any third party have been litigated or settled, and provided further, that the employee is not found guilty of a violation of the California Vehicle Code or Penal Code in connection with the accident causing such damage. Employees shall submit proof of loss, damage or theft (i.e., appropriate police report and/or estimated statement of loss) to the Agency/Department Head within 30 days of such loss, damage or theft. Property damage or loss incurred to the private automobile while located on the street or at the parking facility serving the employee’s normal place of work shall not be compensated under this section, but property damage or loss incurred to the private automobile while located on the street or at the parking facility serving the employee’s County business destination shall be compensated as provided above.
SECTION 16.	WAGES
A.	Effective June 25, 2000, salaries for all represented classifications including Representation Unit III shall be increased by 4%.
B.	Effective July 8, 2001, salaries for all represented classifications including Representation Unit III shall be increased by 5%.
C.	Effective July 7, 2002, salaries for all represented classifications including Representation Unit III shall be increased by 5%.
D.	SPECIAL ADJUSTMENTS
1.	In addition to the general increase, the following classes will receive special salary adjustment as follows:
Item #	Classification Title	Effective 1st Year	Effective 2nd Year	Effective 3rd Year
1305	Account Clerk I		2.5%	
1305N	Account Clerk I SAN		2.5%	
1310	Account Clerk II		2.5%	
1310N	Account Clerk II SAN		2.5%	
0132	Accountant I	3%		
0135	Accountant II	3%		
0130	Accou ntant-Aud itor	3%		
1314	Accounting Specialist		2.5%	
8215	Agricultural Biologist	3%	2%	
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-40-
Item #	Classification Title	Effective 1st Year	Effective 2nd Year	Effective 3rd Year
8205	Agricultural Biologist Trainee	3%	2%	
2620	Appraiser III	2%		
2510	Assistant Right of Way Agent	2%	2%	2%
2515	Associate Right of Way Agent	2%	2%	2%
0142	Auditor I	3%		
0145	Auditor II	3%		
2715	Auditor-Appraiser III	2%		
0128	Auditor-Intern	3%		
1491	Billing Technician I		2.5%	
1492	Billing Technician II		2.5%	
1493	Billing Technician III		2.5%	
2968	Bonds & Finance Technician I		2.5%	
2969	Bonds & Finance Technician II		2.5%	
0172	Buyer I	1.5%		
0173	Buyer II	1.5%		
1480	Buyer Assistant	5%		
5553	Chemist	2%		
5300	Clinical Nurse I	3%		
5301N	Clinical Nurse I per diem	3%		
5305	Clinical Nurse II	3%		
5315	Clinical Nurse III	3%		
5337	Clinical Nurse Specialist	3%		
2970	Community Development Loan Specialist I		2.5%	
2971	Community Development Loan Specialist II		2.5%	
6701	Community Outreach Worker	1%	1%	
8520	Crime Laboratory Technician	2%		
8523	Criminalist I	2%		
8524	Criminalist II	2%		
8525	Criminalist III	2%		
1470	Eligibility Technician I	1%	1%	
1471	Eligibility Technician II	1%	1%	
1472	Eligibility Technician III	1%	1%	
1477N	Eligibility Technician Intermittent	1%	1%	
1468	Eligibility Technician Trainee	1%	1%	
1882	Emergency Services Dispatcher I	4%		
1885	Emergency Services Dispatcher II	4%		
1885N	Emergency Services Dispatcher SAN	4%		
7205	Gardener I	3.5%	3%	
7210	Gardener II	3.5%	3%	
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-41-
Item #	Classification Title	Effective 1st Year	Effective 2nd Year	Effective 3rd Year
5780	Health Educator I	4.5%	4%	3%
5781	Health Educator II	4.5%	4%	3%
2964	Housing & Comm Dev Spec I	11%		
2965	Housing & Comm Dev Spec II	11%		
2966	Housing & Comm Dev Spec III	11%		
2961	Housing & Comm Dev Technician	11%		
2955	Housing Rehab Specialist I	11%		
2956	Housing Rehab Specialist II	11%		
2957	Housing Rehab Specialist III	11%		
5344	Infection Control Practitioner	3%		
6929	Information & Referral Worker	1%	1%	
8202	Insect Trapper	3%	2%	
8202N	Insect Trapper SAN	3%	2%	
5550	Laboratory Technician	2%		
8522	Latent Fingerprint Examiner	2%		
2962	Lead Inspection Technician	1.5%		
2967	Lead Project Designer	5% above HRS III		
2963	Lead Risk Assessor	1.5%		
4115	Library Assistant I	2.5%	2.5%	2.5%
4120	Library Assistant II	2.5%	2.5%	2.5%
2301	Mapping Technician I	4%		
2302	Mapping Technician II	4%		
2303	Mapping Technician III	4%		
6496	Marriage, Family & Child Counselor I	7.5%	Parity to Rehab Counselor	
6497	Marriage, Family & Child Counselor II	7.5%	Parity to Rehab Counselor	
2181	Materials Testing Tech I	2%	1%	
2182	Materials Testing Tech II	2%	1%	
2183	Materials Testing Tech III	2%	1%	
1460	Medical Records Technician		1%	
5383	Mid Level Practitioner	3%		
5383N	Mid Level Practitioner per diem	3%		
5798	Nutrition Assistant I	1%	1%	
5799	Nutrition Assistant II	1%	1%	
1496	Patient Services Technician I	Parity to ET series	1%	
1497	Patient Services Technician II	Parity to ET series	1%	
1495	Patient Services Technician III	Parity to ET series	1%	
8204	Pest Detection Specialist	3%	2%	
8204N	Pest Detection Specialist SAN	3%	2%	
2925	Planner I	Parity with HCD-HRS Series		
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-42-
Item #	Classification Title	Effective 1st Year	Effective 2nd Year	Effective 3rd Year
2930	Planner U	Parity with HCD-HRS Series		
2935	Planner III	Parity with HCD-HRS Series		
2921	Planning Technician I	1.5%		
2922	Planning Technician II	1.5%		
1825	Programmer Analyst	10%		
6505	Psychiatric Social Worker I	3%	Parity to Rehab Counselor	
6510	Psychiatric Social Worker II	3%	Parity to Rehab Counselor	
2162	Public Works Inspector I	2%	1%	
2162	Public Works Inspector II	2%	1%	
2162	Public Works Inspector III	2%	1%	
0171	Purchasing Technician	1.5%		
2980	Redevelopment Specialist I	11%		
2981	Redevelopment Specialist II	11%		
1351	Retirement Specialist I		2.5%	
1352	Retirement Specialist II		2.5%	
1353	Retirement Specialist III		2.5%	
8225	Senior Agricultural Biologist	3%	2%	
5684	Senior Vector Control Officer	2.5%		
8685	Senior Zoning Investigator	1.5%		
6495	Substance Abuse Counselor	1%	1%	
6495N	Substance Abuse Counselor SAN	.1%	1%	
9288	Telecommunication Services Coord.	4.5%		
5682	Vector Control Officer Trainee	2.5%		
5683	Vector Control Officer	2.5%		
8680	Zoning Investigator	1.5%		
E.	The job classes, unique to the Alameda County Flood Control and Water Conservation District, Zone 7 listed in Appendix F are excluded from the provisions of this section.
At the County's discretion, reopeners may occur to meet and confer on salaries for specific classifications identified by the County based on recruitment and retention operational needs.
SECTION 17.	TWO WEEKS' NOTICE UPON TERMINATION
A.	In the event of the termination of an employee subject to this Memorandum of Understanding for a cause other than intoxication on the job, gross insubordination, dishonesty, or conviction of a felony which relates to the employee's job, the appointing authority or his/her designated agent shall give to such employee a written notice of termination no less than ten working days prior to the effective date of said termination. In the event, however, that such employee is not on the job on the date he/she would be entitled to such notice, it shall be mailed to him/her on such date. Time spent on
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-43-
SECTION 17.-contd.
the job during such ten-day notice period by a probationary employee shall not be counted toward completion of the probationary period. The County agrees to furnish a copy of any such notice to the Union if the employee so requests in writing, but failure to receive such notice shall not invalidate such termination.
B.	Non-utilization of Services-As-Needed Employees. In the event that a services-as-needed employee who has worked in a department 50% time or more every pay period for thirteen or more consecutive pay periods will no longer be utilized, the Agency/Department Head shall provide to the employee a written notice of non-utilization no less than ten working days prior to the effective date of said separation. This requirement for a notice of non-utilization shall not apply to services-as-needed employees with time-specific projects, employees in P-designated positions, or employees who accept either another services-as-needed position or assignment to another Agency/Department without a break in service.
An Agency/Department Head who, after issuing a notification of separation, subsequently extends the employee's utilization up to two weeks beyond the separation date shall not be obligated to reissue a separation notice. If the utilization extends beyond said two-week period, the Agency/ Department Head shall issue a revised written notice of separation.
SECTION 18.	AFFIRMATIVE ACTION COMMITTEE
A.	APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEE. The Union may appoint a committee consisting of four full-time or less than full-time employees as Union representatives to meet with the Diversity Programs Manager, provided, however, that the employee shall only be granted paid release time for meetings during those hours which the employee would have been regularly scheduled to work.
B.	MEETINGS. The Affirmative Action Committee shall meet quarterly, or more frequently by mutual agreement of the parties, at times and places to be decided by the parties.
C.	RECOMMENDATIONS. The recommendations and deliberations of said Committee shall be advisory to the County including its Agencies/Departments, commissions and personnel.
D.	GOALS. The goals and objectives of said Committee shall be those set forth in the Alameda County Board of Supervisors' Resolution No. 168398, adopted on August 24,1976.
SECTION 19.	SAFETY
A.	GOALS AND FUNCTIONS. Chapter 2.108 of the Alameda County Administrative Code relating to the County's Central Safety Committee is hereby incorporated into this Memorandum of Understanding by reference. Such Chapter establishes the goals and functions hereunder.
B.	CENTRAL SAFETY COMMITTEE. Pursuant to Section 2.108.030 of said Chapter, the County agrees to appoint four full-time or less than full-time employees to the Central Safety Committee as may hereafter be designated by the Unions.
C.	DEPARTMENTAL OR OFFICE SAFETY COMMITTEES. The Union shall have the right to participate in any and all existing agency/departmental safety committees or in any other formal or informal arrangement relating to safety as may currently be in effect. The Union shall further have the right to initiate a safety committee or other formal or informal arrangement relating to safety as may be appropriate to the work situation in any agency/department where such committees or other arrangements do not currently exist.
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-44-
SECTION 19.-contd.
D.	COUNTY TIME. Full-time or less than full-time employees who have been formally designated as Union representatives pursuant to paragraphs B. and C. above shall carry out their duties under this Section on County time, provided, however, that the employee shall only be granted paid release time for meetings during those hours which the employee would have been regularly scheduled to work.
SECTION 20.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	DEFINITION. A grievance is defined as an allegation by an employee, a group of employees or the Union that the County has failed to provide a condition of employment, which is established by the annual Salary Ordinance, by written agency/departmental rules, or by this Memorandum of Understanding as adopted by Ordinance, provided that the enjoyment of such right is not made subject to the discretion of the Agency/Department Head or the County; and, provided further, that the condition of employment which is the subject matter of the grievance is a matter within the scope of representation as defined in California Government Code Section 3504.
B.	EXCLUSION OF CIVIL SERVICE MATTERS. The grievance procedure herein established shall have no application to matters over which the Civil Service Commission has jurisdiction pursuant to the County Charter or rules adopted thereunder. Additionally, claims of discrimination in violation of < Section 2A by employees who are in the unclassified service, and therefore not subject to jurisdiction of the Civil Service Commission, shall not be grievable if they arise from or seek to reverse layoffs, separations, dismissals, suspensions, or reductions in rank or compensation, but these employees may pursue any other available administrative or legal remedy.
C.	DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW AND ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES. The following is the procedure to be followed in the resolution of grievances for full-time employees. For less than full-time employees the procedure shall be the same as herein except that the time limits for filing , written grievances, appeals and responses shall be ten calendar days.
1.	An employee having a grievance shall first discuss it with his/her immediate supervisor and ■} endeavor to work out a satisfactory solution in an informal manner with such supervisor.
2.	If a satisfactory solution is not accomplished by informal discussion, the employee shall have the right to consult with, and be assisted by, a representative of his/her own choice in this and all succeeding steps of this subparagraph C. and may thereafter file a grievance in writing with his/her immediate supervisor within seven working days after the date of such informal discussion. Within seven working days after receipt of any written grievance, the immediate supervisor shall return a copy of the written grievance to the employee with his/her answer thereto in writing. If the grievance is not resolved at this level, the employee shall have seven working days from receipt of the answer within which to file an appeal to the section head.
3.	The section head, or corresponding administrative level, shall have seven working days after receipt of the written appeal in which to review and answer the grievance in writing. If the grievance is not resolved at this level, the employee or his/her representative shall have seven working days from receipt of the answer within which to file an appeal with the division head, or corresponding administrative level.
4.	The division head, or corresponding administrative level, shall have seven working days after receipt of the written appeal in which to review and answer the grievance in writing. Although no hearing is required at this step, the employee and his/her representative may be present at, and participate in, any such hearing as the division head may conduct. If the grievance is not resolved at this level, the employee shall have seven working days from receipt of the answer within which to file an appeal with the Department Head.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-45-
SECTION 20. - contd.
5.	An Agency/Department Head shall have seven working days after receipt of the written appeal in which to review, hold hearings, and answer the grievance in writing. Unless waived by mutual agreement of the employee or his/her representative and the Agency/Department Head, a hearing is required at this step, and the employee and his/her representative shall have the right to be present at, and participate in, such hearing. The time limits at this step may be extended by mutual agreement between the Agency/Department Head and the employee or his/her representative.
D.	UNION GRIEVANCE. The Union may, in its own name, file a grievance alleging that the County has failed to provide it some organizational right which is established by the Board of Supervisors in Chapter 3.04 of the County of Alameda Administrative Code, by written agency/department rules, or by this Memorandum of Understanding as adopted by Ordinance, provided that such right is not made subject to the discretion of the agency/department. Such Union grievances shall be filed with the Agency /Department Head and heard and determined pursuant to the provisions of the fifth step of the grievance procedure.
E.	WAIVER OF APPEAL STEPS. If the grievance is not resolved after the first-line supervisor has answered it in writing, the Union and the Agency/Department Head may by mutual agreement waive review of the grievance at the section head or equivalent level, or at the division head or equivalent level, or both, in those cases in which such levels of management are without authority to resolve the grievance as requested by the employee. Grievances raised pursuant to Section 2.A. which allege sexual harassment by the first-line supervisor may be filed initially with the section head, grievances alleging sexual harassment by the section head may be filed initially with the division head, and grievances alleging sexual harassment by the division head may be filed initially with the Agency/Department Head.
F.	BINDING ARBITRATION OF GRIEVANCES. In the event that the grievance is not resolved at Step 5 of subparagraph C. herein, the grievant or his/her representative may, within 30 days after receipt of the decision of the Agency/Department Head made pursuant to said subparagraph C., request that the grievance be heard by an arbitrator.
G.	INFORMAL REVIEW BY DIRECTOR. Prior to the selection of the arbitrator and submission of the grievance for hearing by said arbitrator, the Director of Human Resource Services shall informally review the grievance and determine whether said grievance may be adjusted to the satisfaction of the employee. The Director of Human Resource Services shall have ten working days in which to review and seek adjustment of the grievance.
H.	SELECTION OF ARBITRATOR. The arbitrator shall be selected by mutual agreement between the Director of Human Resource Services and the employee or his/her representative. If the Director of Human Resource Services and the employee or his/her representative are unable to agree on the selection of an arbitrator, they shall jointly request the American Arbitration Association to submit a list of five qualified arbitrators. The Director of Human Resource Services and the employee or his/her representative shall then alternately strike names from the list until only one name remains, and that person shall serve as arbitrator.
I.	DUTY OF ARBITRATOR. Except when an agreed statement of facts is submitted by the parties, it shall be the duty of the arbitrator to hear and consider evidence submitted by the parties and to thereafter make written findings of fact and a disposition of the grievance which shall be final and binding upon the parties. The arbitrator shall have no power to amend this Memorandum of Understanding, a Resolution of the Board of Supervisors, the Charter, Ordinance, State law, or written agency/departmental rule, or to recommend such an amendment.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-46-
SECTION 20. - contd.
J.	PAYMENT OF COSTS. Each party to a hearing before an arbitrator shall bear his/her own expenses in connection therewith. All fees and expenses of the arbitrator and of a reporter shall be borne one-half by the County and one-half by the grievant.
K.	EFFECT OF FAILURE OF TIMELY ACTION. Failure of the employee to file an appeal within the required time limit at any step shall constitute an abandonment of the grievance. Failure of the County to respond within the time limit at any step shall result in an automatic advancement of the grievance to the next step.
L.	LIMITATION OF STALE GRIEVANCES. A grievance shall be void unless presented within 60 calendar days from the date upon which the County has allegedly failed to provide a condition of employment or a union organizational right. In no event shall any grievance include a claim for money relief for more than a 60-day period. This provision does not establish any limit for liability accruing after a grievance was filed.
M.	DESIGNATION OF APPEAL LEVELS. Each Agency/Department Head shall designate in writing the positions or levels in his/her agency/department to which the various appeals provided in subparagraph C. hereof shall be made.
N.	EXCLUSION OF NONRECOGNIZED ORGANIZATIONS. For the purposes of this section, the provisions of Section 1. of the Memorandum of Understanding shall be construed to limit the employee's right of selection of a representative to the extent that agents of any other employee organization as defined in Section 3.04.020 of the Alameda County Administrative Code, which is not a party to this Memorandum of Understanding, are specifically excluded from so acting. The Union shall be notified of all grievances filed pursuant to Section 20.C.2.
In those cases in which the employee elects to represent himself/ herself, or arranges for independent representation, the County shall make no settlement or award which shall be inconsistent with the terms and conditions of this Memorandum of Understanding. In the event the Union shall determine that such inconsistent award has been made, the Union, on its own behalf, may file a grievance pursuant to paragraph D. of this section for the purpose of amending such award. In the event any unrepresented or independently represented employee shall elect to go to arbitration under subsection F. hereof, the Union may elect to be a full and equal party to such proceeding for the purpose of protecting the interests of its members in negotiated conditions of employment.
O.	GRIEVANCE RIGHTS OF FORMER EMPLOYEES. A person who because of dismissal, resignation, or layoff is no longer a County employee may file and pursue a grievance at the department head level and may also pursue such grievance through the remaining levels of the grievance procedure, including binding arbitration, provided that the grievance is timely filed as provided in subsection 20.K. and 20.L. hereof, that the grievance is filed no later than 30 calendar days from the date of issuance of the warrant complained of, that the issue would otherwise be grievable under this Section; and provided further, however, that under no circumstances may a former employee file or pursue any grievance unless it relates solely to whether such person's final pay warrant(s) correctly reflected the final salary, or fringe benefits taken in the form of cash owned to such person.
SECTION 21.	DISABILITY INSURANCE BENEFITS
A.	Participation: The County shall continue to participate under the State Disability Insurance (SDI) Program.
B.	Payment of SDI Premiums: SDI premiums shall be shared equally by the employee and the County.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-47-
SECTION 21. - contd.
C.	Employee Options - There are two options available to an employee who is otherwise eligible for disability insurance benefits which are as follows:
1.	Option 1: Not applying for disability insurance benefits and using accrued paid leave, vacation leave, compensating time off, floating holiday pay, and/or with the consent of the Agency/Department Head, discretionary Major Medical Supplemental Paid Sick Leave or
2.	Option 2: Applying for disability insurance benefits and integrating accrued paid leaves with the SDI benefits. Such accrued paid leaves shall include sick leave, vacation leave, compensating time off, floating holiday pay, and/or, with the consent of the Agency/Department Head, discretionary Major Medical Supplemental Paid Sick Leave, unless the employee provides written notice to the Agency/Department Head to limit the integration to accrued sick leave only with SDI benefits. The choice to integrate accrued sick leave only with SDI benefits may not be waived by the employee or the County.
3.	Amount of Supplement: The amount of the supplement provided in Section D, hereof, for any hour of any normal workday, shall not exceed the difference between 100% of the employee's normal gross salary rate, including premium conditions specified in Section 12. and applicable Salary Ordinance footnotes, and the "weekly benefit amount" multiplied by two and divided by 75/80.
D.	HOW A SUPPLEMENT TO SDI IS TREATED. Hours, including fractions thereof, charged against the employee's accrued sick leave, discretionary major medical supplemental paid sick leave, vacation leave, compensating time off, and/or floating holiday balances as supplements to disability insurance benefits will be regarded as hours of paid leave of absence.
Vacation and sick leave shall be accrued based upon the proportion of the hours charged against the employee's accrued sick leave, discretionary major medical supplemental paid sick leave, vacation leave, compensating time off and/or floating holiday balances to the normal pay period.
E.	HEALTH AND DENTAL PLAN COVERAGE IN CONJUNCTION WITH SDI: For purposes of determining eligibility for the County's hospital and medical care contributions and dental coverage, employees who are receiving a supplement to disability insurance benefits paid from and charged to accrued sick leave, discretionary major medical supplemental paid sick leave, vacation leave, compensating time off and/or floating holiday balances shall be regarded as on paid status for their regular work schedules with regard to the days for which such supplement is paid.
The group health care providers will permit employees who are dropped from health and/or dental plan coverage because of exhaustion of their accrued sick leave, discretionary major medical supplemental paid sick leave, vacation leave, compensating time off and/or floating holiday balances, to re-enter the group plans upon returning to their former work schedules, if the employee is otherwise eligible pursuant to Section 14 herein.
F.	HOLIDAY PAY IN CONJUNCTION WITH SDI. In the event that a paid holiday occurs during a period of absence for which the employee receives disability insurance benefits, holiday pay shall be prorated in proportion to the amount paid to the employee as a supplement to the disability insurance benefit from accrued sick leave, discretionary major medical supplemental paid sick leave, vacation leave, compensating time off, and/or floating holiday balances on the day before and the day after the holiday.
G.	PERSONAL DISABILITY LEAVE IN CONJUNCTION WITH SDI. Refer to Section 8.M. Personal Disability Leave.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-48-
SECTION 22.	SOCIAL SERVICES AGENCY CASELOADS
In the appeal of dismissals, .demotions or suspensions involving an Eligibility Technician or case-carrying Social Worker or case-carrying Child Welfare Worker, who alleges that the discipline resulted from errors related to eligibility determinations, grant computations, case maintenance or inability to complete all tasks associated with the employee's regularly assigned cases, the County hereby agrees that if the employee can establish that his/her caseload exceeded the County's budgeted standard in effect during the time period related to the discipline, the County is required to establish that the employee's deficiencies did not result from assignment of cases in excess of such standard.
Time spent on assigned work not part of the regular caseload will be recognized and included in consideration of employee performance and in disciplinary appeals to the extent that such work has had an impact upon the quantity and/or quality of work performed by the employee on his/her regularly assigned caseload. The County shall keep records of work done by employees on cases outside their regular assignment, exclusive of routine telephone contacts and other incidental activities. The exclusive procedures for enforcing the obligation of the Social Services Agency to consider time spent on assigned work not part of the employee's regular caseload are (1) the filing of a rebuttal to the evaluation which shall be attached to the evaluation and/or (2) producing evidence at a disciplinary hearing at which such evaluation has been received, that the employee's work deficiencies resulted from time spent on assigned work not part of the employee's regular caseload which was not reflected in the evaluation.
No changes in the standards shall occur except after meet and confer sessions on the effects of proposed changes which are mandated by State or Federal regulations, court actions, or local adjustments deemed necessary by the Board of Supervisors.
A reasonable adjustment period will precede the application of any changes in the standards of caseload for disciplinary considerations. It is understood and agreed that any and all bilingual cases, regardless of aid category or to whom such cases are assigned, shall be given a weight of 1.2 regular cases effective November 1, 1992. Such weighing shall be credited against existing workload yardsticks in the case of Eligibility Technicians and for services shall be credited against the average of actual assigned caseloads in a given service program. This average is to be determined monthly on an agency-wide basis beginning November 1,1992.
SECTION 23.	NOTICE OF LAYOFFS
Except for employees employed in a classification enumerated in Appendix B, the County shall give reasonable notice to the Union before effecting any layoffs which materially affect employees represented under this agreement. Upon receiving such notices, the Union may meet and confer regarding the effect of the layoff.	>
SECTION 24.	EFFECT OF MANDATED FRINGE BENEFITS
In the event that State or Federal law shall mandate the granting to employees of benefits or other terms and conditions of employment which duplicate, supplement, or otherwise impinge upon benefits or other terms and conditions of employment set forth herein, the provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding so duplicated, supplemented, or impinged upon shall be void and of no further effect as of the date the mandated benefit or term and condition of employment becomes effective, but the parties hereto shall then meet and confer with regard to such benefit or other term and condition of employment in order to assure that the State or Federal mandate does not result in an overall loss of benefits to employees.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-49-
SECTION 25. EDUCATIONAL STIPENDS
Upon the approval of the Agency/Department Head of any plan submitted by an employee to engage in job-related educational courses which shall maintain or upgrade the employee’s skills on the job, or prepare the employee for promotional opportunities, the County shall pay up to $500 per employee per fiscal year. More than one educational plan may be approved in any fiscal year, but in no event shall the stipend exceed $500 per employee per fiscal year. The maximum County liability under this section shall not exceed $150,000 in any fiscal year; except as herein provided. The County agrees to carry over from fiscal year to fiscal year any unexpended funds from this provision, not to exceed a maximum of $20,000. Employees shall receive such stipends on a first come-first served basis each fiscal year.
SECTION 26.	UNIFORM ALLOWANCES
A.	Effective January 1, 2001, the uniform allowance for Sheriffs Technician shall be $500 per year upon the completion of 12 months of continuous service, payable in January of each year. The County shall replace or repair all uniforms damaged or lost, provided that the damages or loss occurred in the normal line of duty and that these damages or losses were not caused by or contributed to by any negligence on the employee’s part. The determination whether to repair or replace shall be at the discretion of the Sheriff. Sheriffs Technician uniform allowance will be increased to $525 per year effective January 1, 2002; and $550 per year effective January 1, 2003, upon the completion of 12 months of continuous service, payable in January of each year.
B.	The County will provide one set of rain gear including boots, per employee per employment to employees in the classifications of Building Inspector I, Building Inspector II and Construction inspector who are regularly assigned to work out of doors.
C.	The County shall reimburse employees in the classes of Cook (Item #7525), First Cook (Item #7535), Food Service Worker (Item #7510), Butcher (Item #7585), assigned to work at Juvenile Institutions and Work Furlough, for one-half the cost of up to eight (8) dietary uniforms per employee per fiscal year. Additionally, Cook (7525) and First Cook (7535) shall be reimbursed the full cost for chefs hats.
D.	The County shall provide uniforms to each employee in the classification of Senior Heavy Equipment Parts Technician (9411) and to one position of Supply Clerk II (1710) when assigned to the Heavy Equipment Repair Building of the Public Works Agency. The employees in these classifications shall be required to wear the uniform during work hours. At the discretion of the Agency/Department Head these uniforms will be replaced as needed.
E.	The County will provide up to one set of rain gear excluding boots, per employee to employees in the classification of Senior Weights & Measures inspector (8415), Weights & Measures Inspector (8410), and Weights & Measures Assistant (8405) who are regularly assigned to work out of doors. At the discretion of the Agency/Department Head the rain gear will be replaced as needed.
F.	Any employee in the classification of Water Plant Operator I, II, or III may be reimbursed up to $150 per fiscal year for the actual cost of approved safety footwear.
G.	Effective January 1, 2001, the uniform allowance for Emergency Services Dispatcher shall be $350 per year upon the completion of 12 months of continuous service, payable in January of each year. County to replace or repair all uniforms damaged or lost, provided that the damages or loss occurred in the normal line of duty and that these damages or losses were not caused by or contributed to by any negligence on the employee’s part. The determination whether to repair or replace shall be at the discretion of the Sheriff. Emergency Services Dispatchers uniform allowance will be increased to $375 per year effective January 1, 2002; and $400 per year effective January 1, 2003, upon the completion of 12 months of continuous service, payable in January of each year.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-50-
SECTION 26. - contd.
H.	Effective January 1,2001, the uniform allowance for Coroner’s Investigators shall be $430 per year upon the completion of 12 months of continuous service, payable in January of each year. County to replace or repair all uniforms damaged or lost, provided that the damages or loss occurred in the normal line of duty and that these damages or losses were not caused by or contributed to by any negligence on the employee’s part. The determination whether to repair or replace shall be at the discretion of the Sheriff. Coroner’s Investigators uniform allowance will be increased to $455 per year effective January 1, 2002; and $480 per year effective January 1, 2003, upon the completion of 12 months of continuous service, payable in January of each year.
I.	Effective January 1, 2001, the uniform allowance for Animal Control Aides shall be $330 per year upon the completion of 12 months of continuous service, payable in January of each year. County to replace or repair all uniforms damaged or lost, provided that the damages or loss occurred in the normal line of duty and that these damages or losses were not caused by or contributed to by any negligence on the employee’s part. The determination whether to repair or replace shall be at the discretion of the Sheriff. Animal Control Aides uniform allowance will be increased to $355 per year effective January 1, 2002; and $380 per year effective January 1, 2003, upon the completion of 12 months of continuous service, payable in January of each year.
J.	The County will provide five (5) sets of shirts and pants to each employee in the classifications of Gardener I (7205) and Gardener II (7210). The employees in these classifications will be required to wear the uniform during work hours. At the discretion of the Agency/Department Head, the ; uniform will be replaced as needed.
K.	The County will provide, through a linen service, a uniform shirt and uniform pants for each employee in the classifications of Janitor (7410) and Lead Janitor (7415). The fabric and the color will be determined by the General Services Agency and is non-grievable. The employees must wear the uniform shirt and uniform pants during work hours.
L.	The County will reimburse employees in the classifications of Gardener I (7205) and Gardener II (7210) for the actual cost of one pair of work boots (steel-toed, ankle high work boots) up to a : maximum of $75.00. Reimbursement, after the end of the calendar year, will be based on verification of assignment and submittal of proof of purchase. The employees are required to wear these work boots during work hours.
SECTION 27.	AGENCY/DEPARTMENT HEAD
"Agency/Department," as used herein, shall mean the Agency Head, the Department Head, or the designee of the Agency Head or Department Head.
SECTION 28.	TRANSFER HOT LINE
During the term of this MOU, the County shall continue the use of a transfer hot line as a method of notifying employees of vacancies. The method adopted shall be appropriate to the needs of the County Agencies/Departments.
SECTION 29.	LIFE INSURANCE
Except for employees enumerated in Appendix B. and any employee who is regularly scheduled to work less than half the normal work week for the job classification, basic group life insurance coverage of $9,000 will be provided to each employee who meets the enrollment requirements. The County shall
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-51-
SECTION 29. - contd.
continue to pay necessary .premiums for two pay periods after the employee goes on approved leave without pay. This coverage reduces by 33% at age 65, at age 70, at age 75, at age 80, at age 85, at age 90, and at age 95. This reduction will apply to the amount in force just prior to each reduction interval. The reduced amounts will be rounded in accordance with the existing schedule.
SECTION 30.	CATASTROPHIC SICK LEAVE PROGRAM
An employee may be eligible to receive donations of paid leave to be included in the employee's sick leave balance if s/he has suffered a catastrophic illness or injury which prevents the employee from being able to work. Catastrophic illness or injury is defined as a critical medical condition considered to be terminal or a long-term major physical impairment or disability.
Eligibility:
1.	The recipient employee, recipient employee's family, or other person designated in writing by the recipient employee must submit a request to the Human Resource Services Department.
2.	The recipient employee is not eligible so long as s/he has paid leaves available, however, the request may be initiated prior to the anticipated date leave balances will be exhausted.
3.	A medical verification including diagnosis and prognosis must be provided by the recipient employee.
4.	A recipient employee is eligible to receive 180 working days of donated time per employment.
5.	Donations shall be made in full-day increments of 7.5/8 hours for full time employees, and in
increments of 3.5/4 hours for less than full-time employees. Employees may donate unlimited amounts of time. All donations are irrevocable. In addition, effective January 1, 1998, employees with vacation balances that exceed the amount that can be paid off, may donate unlimited amounts of vacation to an Agency/Department catastrophic sick leave pool.
6.	The donor employee may donate vacation, compensatory time or in lieu holiday time which shall be converted to recipient employee's sick leave balance and all sick leave provisions will apply. Time donated in any pay period may be used in the following pay periods. No retroactive donations will be permitted.
7.	The donor's hourly value will be converted to the recipient's hourly value and then added to the recipient's sick leave balance on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
8.	The recipient employee's entitlement to personal disability leave will be reduced by the number of hours added to the recipient's sick leave balance.
9.	The determination of the employee's eligibility for Catastrophic Sick Leave donation shall be at the county's sole discretion and shall be final and non-grievable.
10.	Recipient employees who are able to work but are working less than their regular schedule will integrate Catastrophic Sick Leave donations with time worked and their own paid leaves, which must be used first, not to exceed 100% of the employee's gross salary.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-52-
SECTION 31. VISION REIMBURSEMENT PLAN
Employees shall be eligible for vision care reimbursement subject to the following criteria: The employee is eligible for reimbursement after six months of continuous employment working at least 50% time or more each pay period. The employee shall be reimbursed for the cost of either lenses and frames or contact lenses specifically prescribed for the employee only, up to a maximum reimbursement of $150.00 in the twenty-four month period ending August 31, 1997, and each twenty-four month period beginning on September 1 of odd numbered years. Effective September 1, 2001, the twenty-four month reimbursement shall be increased to $200.00.
Reimbursement will be made subject to applicable Auditor's Office procedures and requirements.
SECTION 32.	LONG-TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE POLICY
Effective January 1, 1998, a long-term disability insurance policy will be made available for the employee only. Coverage can be purchased either through the use of vacation sellback (up to five days) or through payroll deduction. This policy is subject to premium costs, eligibility requirements, age limitations, coverage exclusions, conversion rights, and all other provisions set forth in the applicable insurer contracts.
SECTION 33.	SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any provision of this Memorandum of Understanding shall be held invalid by operation of law or by any court of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any provision shall be restrained by any tribunal, the remainder of this Memorandum of Understanding shall not be affected thereby, and the parties shall enter into negotiation for the sole purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such provision.
SECTION 34.	ENACTMENT
It is agreed that the foregoing shall be jointly submitted to the Alameda County Board of Supervisors by the Director of Human Resource Services and the Unions for the Board's consideration and approval. Upon approval, the Board shall adopt an Ordinance which shall incorporate this Memorandum of Understanding either in full or by reference. Upon such adoption, the provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding shall supersede and control over conflicting or inconsistent County Ordinances and Resolutions.
SECTION 35.	NO STRIKE, NO LOCKOUT
A.	During the term of this Agreement, SEIU, its members and representatives agree that it and they will not engage in, authorize, or sanction a strike, stoppage of work, or withdrawal of services.
B.	The County will not lockout employees during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding.
SECTION 36.	SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, this Memorandum of Understanding fully and completely incorporates the understanding of the parties hereto regarding the provisions contained in this MOU. Neither party shall, during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding, demand any change herein, provided that nothing herein shall prohibit the parties from changing the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding by mutual agreement.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-53-
SECTION 37. TERM OF MEMORANDUM
This Memorandum of Understanding shall become effective upon the approval of the Board of Supervisors and shall remain in full effect to and including July 5, 2003.
SIGNED AND ENTERED INTO THIS 7 DAY OF
ALAMEDA COUNTY
, 2000.
SOCIAL SERVICES UNION LOCAL 535, SEIU
Keith Fleming, Chief Spokesperson
Red Beal, Chief Spokesperson
Director, Human Resource Services

HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CARE WORKERS LOCAL 250, SEIU
Approved as to Form
RICHARD E. WINNIE, County Counsel
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000-July 5, 2003
-54-
2000 - 2003 Memorandum of Understanding SEIU, Locals 250, 535,616
Signatures Page 2
\Abel\SEIU 2000
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-55-
APPENDIX A
Listed herein are all the Alameda County job classes represented by S.E.I.U. Locals 535, 616 and 250. Job classes are listed by Representation Unit and salaries are effective on the dates shown at the heading of each listing.
O/T* STATUS CODES: The letter designation shown for each class in the column titled OfT* STATUS represents the method of compensation (either in pay or in compensating time off) for overtime worked as shown below:
A.	=	1.5 O/T for all time over workweek - Cash or CTO at Agency/Department Head option.
B.	=	1.5 O/T for all time worked over workweek except that for all time worked in excess of twelve
consecutive hours as provided in Section 7.D.6., the rate shall be 2 times the employee's hourly rate as defined in Section 7.C.
C.	=	1.5 O/T for all time worked over 7.5/8.0 hours in any one workday, or 37.5/40 hours in any
workweek, except that for all time worked in excess of 12 consecutive hours as provided in Section 7.D.6., the rate shall be 2 times the employee's hourly rate as defined in Section 7.C.
B/C. =	"B" overtime code applies to full-time employees; "C" overtime code applies to part-time
employees.
D.	=	1.5 O/T for all time worked over 7.5 hours in any one workday or 37.5 hours in any workweek,
as provided in Section 7.D.1.C.
FLSA CODES: The letter designation shown for each class in the column titled FLSA CODE represents the status of the class under the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
C. = Covered by the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
E.	=	Exempt from the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-56-
APPENDIX A - ALPHABETICAL LISTING BY CLASS*
CLASSIFICATION	REP. UNIT	SEIU LOCAL	HRS.	O/T STATUS	FLSA STATUS
ABSENTEE VOTING TECHNICIAN	010	616	37.5	A	c
ACCOUNT CLERK I	010	616	37.5	A	c
ACCOUNT CLERK I (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
ACCOUNT CLERK II	010	616	37.5	A	c
ACCOUNT CLERK II (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
ACCOUNTANT I	011	616	37.5	A	E
ACCOUNTANT II	011	616	37.5	A	E
ACCOUNTANT-AUDITOR	011	616	37.5	A	C
ACCOUNTING SPECIALIST	010	616	40	A	C
ACUPUNCTURIST	007	616	40	A	c
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT	010	616	40	A	c
ADULT PROTECTIVE SVS WORKER I	005	535	37.5	A	E
ADULT PROTECTIVE SVS WORKER II	005	535	37.5	A	E
AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST	011	616	37.5	A	E ■
AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST TRAINEE	011	616	37.5	A	C
ANIMAL CONTROL AIDE	012	616	37.5	A	C
ANIMAL CONTROL AIDE (SAN)	012	616	37.5	A	c
APPRAISER I	011	616	37.5	A	c
APPRAISER I (SAN)	011	616	37.5	A	c
APPRAISER II	011	616	37.5	A	E
APPRAISER II (SAN)	011	616	37.5	A	c
APPRAISER III	011	616	37.5	A	E
APPRAISER INTERN	011	616	37.5	A	C
ARCHITECTURAL PROJ COORD I	011	616	37.5	A	c
ARCHITECTURAL PROJ COORD II	011	616	37.5	A	E / c :
ASSESSMENT TECHNICIAN	012	616	37.5	A	
ASSOCIATE RIGHT OF WAY AGENT	011	616	40	A	E
ASST COOK	004	250	37.5	A	C
ASST PUBLIC GUARDN-CONSRVTR	011	616	37.5	A	E
ASST RIGHT OF WAY AGENT	011	616	40	A	E
AUDITOR I	011	616	37.5	A	■ ' E
AUDITOR II	011	616	37.5	A	E
AUDITOR-APPRAISER AIDE	012	616	37.5	A	C
AUDITOR APPRAISER I	011	616	37.5	A	C
AUDITOR APPRAISER I (SAN)	011	616	37.5	A	c
AUDITOR-APPRAISER II	011	616	37.5	A	E
AUDITOR-APPRAISER II (SAN)	011	616	37.5	A	E
AUDITOR-APPRAISER III	011	616	37.5	A	E
AUDITOR-INTERN	011	616	37.5	A	C
AUTO PARTS TECHNICIAN	012	616	40	A	C
*For Salary Information, See Appendix A - Listing of Classifications by Representation Unit.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-57-
APPENDIX A - ALPHABETICAL LISTING BY CLASS*
CLASSIFICATION	REP. UNIT	SEIU LOCAL	HRS.	O/T STATUS	FLSA STATUS
BILLING TECHNICIAN I	010	616	37.5	A	C
BILLING TECHNICIAN II	010	616	37.5	A	C
BILLING TECHNICIAN III	010	616	37.5	A	C
BONDS AND FINANCE TECHNICIAN I	011	616	37.5	A	C
BONDS AND FINANCE TECHNICIAN II	011	616	37.5	A	C
BOOKMENDER	012	616	37.5	A	C
BOOKMOBILE DRIVER CLERK	012	616	37.5	A	C
BUILDING INSP I	012	616	40	A	C
BUILDING INSP II	012	616	40	A	C
BUILDING INSPECTION TECH	012	616	40	A	C
BUYER I	011	616	37.5	A	C
BUYER II	011	616	37.5	A	E
BUYER'S ASSISTANT	010	616	37.5	A	C
CAREER DEVELOPMENT SPEC I	005	535	37.5	A	E
CEREBRAL PALSY THERAPIST (OCC)	007	616	37.5	A	E
CEREBRAL PALSY THERAPIST (PHYS)	007	616	37.5	A	E
CHEMIST	011	616	40	A	E
CHILD WELFARE WORKER I	005	535	37.5	A	E
CHILD WELFARE WORKER II	005	535	37.5	A	E
CLERK I	010	616	37.5	A	C
CLERK I (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	C
CLERK II	010	616	37.5	A	C
CLERK II (SAN)	.	010	616	37.5	A	C
CLERK INTERMITTENT I	010	616	37.5	A	C
CLERK INTERMITTENT II	010	616	37.5	A	C
CLERK-RECORDER'S SPECIALIST I	010	616	37.5	A	C
CLERK-RECORDER’S SPECIALIST II	010	616	37.5	A	C
CLERK-RECORDER’S SPECIALIST III	010	616	37.5	A	C
CLINICAL NURSE I	003	616	40	B	E
CLINICAL NURSE II	003	616	40	B	E
CLINICAL NURSE III	003	616	40	B	E
CLINICAL NURSE PER DIEM	003	616	40	C	E
CLINICAL NURSE SPECIALIST	003	616	40	C	E
CLINICAL PHARMACIST SPECIALIST	007	616	40	C	E
CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST	007	616	37.5	A	E
CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST (SAN)	007	616	37.5	A	E
CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST TRAINEE (SAN)	007	616	37.5	A	C.
COLLECTION ENFRCEMNT DEPTY I	012	616	37.5	A	C
COLLECTION ENFRCEMNT DEPTY II	012	616	37.5	A	C
*For Salary Information, See Appendix A - Listing of Classifications by Representation Unit.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-58-
APPENDIX A - ALPHABETICAL LISTING BY CLASS*
CLASSIFICATION	REP. UNIT	SEIU LOCAL	HRS.	O/T STATUS	FLSA STATUS
COMMUNITY DEV. LOAN SPEC. I	011	616	37.5	A	c
COMMUNITY DEV. LOAN SPEC II	011	616	37.5	A	c
COMMUNITY OUTREACH WORKER	008	616	37.5	A	c
COMPUTER OPERATOR I	012	250	37.5	A	c
COMPUTER OPERATOR I (SAN)	012	616	37.5	A	c
COMPUTER OPERATOR II	012	616	37.5	A	c
CONSTRUCTION INSPECTOR	012	616	40	A	c
COOK	004	250	37.5	A	c
COOK (SAN)	004	250	37.5	A	c
CORONER’S AIDE I	012	616	37.5	A	c
CORONER'S AIDE II	012	616	37.5	A	c
CORONER'S INVESTIGATOR I	012	616	40	A	c
CORONER'S INVESTIGATOR II	012	616	40	A	c
CRIME LABORATORY TECHNICIAN	012	616	37.5	A	c
CRIMINALIST I	011	616	37.5	A	c
CRIMINALIST II	011	616	37.5	A	E
CRIMINALIST ill	011	616	37.5	A	E
CUSTODIAN (SAN)	004	250	40	A	c
DATA CONTROL TYPIST	010	616	37.5	A	c
DATA ENTRY OPERATOR	010	616	37.5	A	c
DATA INPUT CLERK	010	616	37.5	A	c
DATA PROCESSING TECH I	012	616	37.5	A	c
DATA PROCESSING TECH II	012	616	37.5	A	c
DENTAL ASSISTANT	008	250	37.5	A	c
DENTAL HYGIENIST	007	616	37.5	A	E
ELECTIONS TECHNICIAN	010	616	37.5	A	c
ELIGIBILITY SUPPORT CLERK	010	616	37.5	A	c
ELIGIBILITY TECH I	006	535	37.5	A	c
ELIGIBILITY TECH II	006	535	37.5	A	c
ELIGIBILITY TECH III	006	535	37.5	A	c
ELIGIBILITY TECHNICIAN TRAINEE	006	535	37.5	A	c
EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER I	012	616	40	A	c
EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER II	012	616	40	A	c
EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER II (SAN)	012	616	40	A	c
EMERGENCY SERVICES COORD I	012	616	37.5	A	c
EMERGENCY SERVICES COORD II	012	616	37.5	A	E
EMPLOYMENT COUNSELOR	005	535	37.5	A	E
EMPLOYMENT COUNSELOR,TRAINEE	005	535	37.5	A	c
ENGINEERING AIDE	012	616	40	A	c
ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH I	012	616	40	A	c
*For Salary Information, See Appendix A - Listing of Classifications by Representation Unit.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-59-
APPENDIX A - ALPHABETICAL LISTING BY CLASS*
CLASSIFICATION	REP. UNIT	SEIU LOCAL	HRS.	O/T STATUS	FLSA STATUS
ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH II	012	616	40	A	c
ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH III	012	616	40	A	c
ENGINEERING STAFF ASST I	012	616	40	A	c
ENGINEERING STAFF ASST II	012	616	40	A	c
ENGINEERING STAFF ASST III	012	616	40	A	c
ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPEC TRAINEE	007	616	40	A	c
ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPECIALIST	007	616	40	A	E
FAMILY SERVICES SUPPORT WORKER	005	535	37.5	A	c
FINANCIAL HEARING OFF (INT)	012	616	37.5	A	c
FINANCIAL HEARING OFFICER	012	616	37.5	A	c
FINGERPRINT TECHNICIAN	012	616	37.5	A	c
FIRST COOK	004	250	37.5	A	c
FOOD SERVICE WORKER	004	250	37.5	A	c
FOOD SERVICE WORKER (SAN)	004	250	37.5	A	c
GARDENER I	004	250	40	A	c
GARDENER II	004	250	40	A	c
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SPECIALIST	007	616	40	A	E
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TECHNICIAN	007	616	40	A	c
HEALTH EDUCATOR I	007	616	37.5	A	E
HEALTH EDUCATOR II	007	616	37.5	A	E
HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC I	011	616	37.5	A	C
HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC II	011	616	37.5	A	C
HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC III	011	616	37.5	A	c
HOUSING & COMM DEV TECHNICIAN	011	616	37.5	A	c
HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST I	011	616	37.5	A	c
HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST II	011	616	37.5	A	c
HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST III	011	616	37.5	A	c
HUMAN RESOURCES ASSISTANT I	010	616	37.5	A	c
HUMAN RESOURCES ASSISTANT II	010	616	37.5	A	c
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE ENGINEER	007	616	40	A	E
INFECTION CONTROL PRACTITIONER	003	616	. 40	C	E
INFORMATION & REFERRAL WORKER	006	535	37.5	A	c
INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN I	012	616	40	A	c
INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN II	012	616	40	A	c
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST I	012	616	37.5	A	c
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST II	012	616	37.5	A	c
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST III	012	616	37.5	A	c
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST IV	012	616	37.5	A	c
INSECT TRAPPER	011	616	37.5	A	c
INSECT TRAPPER (SAN)	011	616	37.5	A	c
INTERVIEWER	012	616	37.5	A	c
*For Salary Information, See Appendix A - Listing of Classifications by Representation Unit.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-60-
APPENDIX A - ALPHABETICAL LISTING BY CLASS*
CLASSIFICATION	REP. UNIT	SEIU LOCAL	HRS,	o/t STATUS	FLSA STATUS
JANITOR	004	250	37.5	A	c
JANITOR (SAN)	004	250	37.5	A	c
JOB DEVELOPER, PJ.C.	005	535	37.5	A	E
KEEPER	012	616	40	A	c
KEEPER (SAN)	012	616	40	A	c
LABORATORY ASSISTANT I	008	250	37.5	A	c
LABORATORY ASSISTANT I (SAN)	008	250	37.5	A	c
LABORATORY ASSISTANT II	008	250	37.5	A	c
LABORATORY ASSISTANT III	008	250	37.5	A	c
LABORATORY TECHNICIAN	011	616	37.5	A	c
LATENT FINGERPRINT EXAMINER	010	616	37.5	A	c
LAUNDRY SERVICE WORKER	004	250	37.5	A	c
LAUNDRY SERVICE WORKER (SAN)	004	250	37.5	A	c
LAUNDRY SUPRV, SANTA RITA JAIL	004	250	37.5	A	c
LEAD CLERK	010	616	37.5	A	c
LEAD INSPECTION TECHNICIAN	011	616	37.5	A	c
LEAD JANITOR	004	250	37.5	A	c
LEAD MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST	010	616	37.5	A	c
LEAD PROJECT DESIGNER	012	616	37.5	A	c
LEAD RISK ASSESSOR	011	616	37.5	A	c
LEGAL PROCESS CLERK I	010	616	37.5	A	c
LEGAL PROCESS CLERK II	010	616	37.5	A	c
LEGAL SECRETARY	010	616	37.5	A	c
LEGAL STENOGRAPHER	010	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARIAN I	011	616	37.5	A	E
LIBRARIAN I (SAN)	011	616	37.5	A	E
LIBRARIAN II	011	616	37.5	A	E
LIBRARIAN II (SAN)	011	616	37.5	A	E
LIBRARIAN III	011	616	37.5	A	E
LIBRARY ASSISTANT I	011	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARY ASSISTANT II	011	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARY ASSISTANT II (SAN)	011	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARY CLERK I	010	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARY CLERK I (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARY CLERK II	010	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARY CLERK II (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARY DRIVER-CLERK	012	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARY DRIVER-CLERK (SAN)	012	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARY PAGE	010	616	37.5	A	c
LIBRARY PAGE (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
*For Salary Information, See Appendix A - Listing of Classifications By Representation Unit.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-61-
APPENDIX A - ALPHABETICAL LISTING BY CLASS*
CLASSIFICATION	REP. UNIT	SEIU LOCAL	HRS.	OfT STATUS	FLSA STATUS
LICENSED VOCATIONAL NURSE	008	250	37.5	A	C
LICENSED VOCATIONAL NURSE (SAN)	008	250	37.5	A	C
LICENSING EVALUATOR	006	535	37.5	A	C
LITERACY ADVOCATE	011	616	37.5	A	C
MAPPING TECHNICIAN I	012	616	37.5	A	C
MAPPING TECHNICIAN II	012	616	37.5	A	C
MAPPING TECHNICIAN III	012	616	37.5	A	C
MARRIAGE, FAM & CHILD COUNS I	005	535	37.5	A	C
MARRIAGE, FAM & CHILD COUNS II	005	535	37.5	A	E
MATERIALS TESTING TECH I	012	616	40	A	C
MATERIALS TESTING TECH II	012	616	40	A	C
MATERIALS TESTING TECH III	012	616	40	A	c
MEDICAL CLERK	010	616	37.5	A	c
MEDICAL CLERK (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN	012	616	37.5	A	c
MEDICAL SOCIAL WORKER I	005	535	37.5	A	c
MEDICAL SOCIAL WORKER II	005	535	37.5	A	E
MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST	010	616	37.5	A	c
MEDICAL TRANSLATOR I	008	250	37.5	A	c
MEDICAL TRANSLATOR II	008	250	37.5	A	c
MEDICAL TRANSLATOR II (SAN)	008	250	37.5	A	c
MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST I	008	250	37.5	A	c
MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST II	008	250	37.5	A	c
MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST II (SAN)	008	250	37.5	A	c
MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST III	008	250	37.5	A	c
MESSENGER	010	616	37.5	A	c
MESSENGER (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
MICROBIOLOGIST	007	616	37.5	A	E
MICROBIOLOGIST (SAN)	007	616	37.5	A	E
MICROFILM TECHNICIAN	010	616	37.5	A	c
MICROFILM TECHNICIAN TRAINEE	010	616	37.5	A	c
MICROGRAPHIC SPECIALIST	010	616	37.5	A	c
MID-LEVEL PRACTITIONER	003	616	40	A	E
MID-LEVEL PRACTITIONER (SAN)	003	616	40	A	E
NETWORK SUPPORT TECHNICIAN I	012	616	40	A	C
NETWORK SUPPORT TECHNICIAN II	012	616	40	A	C
NURSING ASSISTANT	008	250	37.5	A	c
NURSING ASSISTANT (PER DIEM)	008	250	37.5	A	c
NUTRITION ASSISTANT I	008	250	37.5	A	c
NUTRITION ASSISTANT II	008	250	37.5	A	c
NUTRITIONIST	007	616	37.5	A	E
*For Salary Information, See Appendix A - Listing of Classifications By Representation Unit.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-62-
APPENDIX A - ALPHABETICAL LISTING BY CLASS*
CLASSIFICATION	REP. UNIT	SEIU LOCAL	HRS.	OfT STATUS	FLSA STATUS
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST I	007	616	37.5	A	E
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST II	007	616	37.5	A	E
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST I INT.	007	616	37.5	A	E
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY AIDE	008	250	37.5	A	C
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY ASSISTANT	007	616	37.5	A	C
PATIENT SERVICES TECH I	006	535	37.5	A	c
PATIENT SERVICES TECH II	006	535	37.5	A	c
PATIENT SERVICES TECH III	006	535	37.5	A	c
PAYROLL RECORDS CLERK	010	616	37.5	A	c
PAYROLL RECORDS CLERK, AUD-CON	010	616	37.5	A	c
PEST DETECTION SPECIALIST	011	616	37.5	A	c
PEST DETECTION SPECIALIST (SAN)	011	616	37.5	A	c
PHOTOGRAPHER	012	616	37.5	A	c
PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY TECH.	010	616	37.5	A	c
PHYSICAL THERAPIST ASSISTANT	008	250	37.5	A	c
PHYSICAL THERAPIST I	007	616	37.5	A	E
PHYSICAL THERAPIST I INT.	007	616	37.5	A	E
PHYSICAL THERAPIST II	007	616	37.5	A	E
PHYSICAL THERAPY AIDE	008	250	37.5	A	C
PLANNER I	011	616	37.5	A	E
PLANNER II	011	616	37.5	A	E
PLANNER III	011	616	37.5	A	E
PLANNING TECHNICIAN I	011	616	37.5	A	C
PLANNING TECHNICIAN II	011	616	37.5	A	C
PLANS CHECKER	012	616	40	A	c
PROGRAMMER ANALYST	011	616	40	A	E
PROGRAMMER I	011	616	40	A	c
PROGRAMMER II	011	616	40	A	c
PROGRAMMING TECHNICIAN I	011	616	40	A	c
PROGRAMMING TECHNICIAN II	011	616	40	A	c
PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER I	005	535	37.5	A	c
PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER II	005	535	37.5	A	E
PSYCHIATRIC TECHNICIAN	008	250	37.5	B	c
PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEER	007	616	37.5	A	E
PUBLIC HEALTH INVESTIGATOR	007	616	37.5	A	C
PUBLIC HEALTH INVESTIGTR TR	007	616	37.5	A	c
PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING ASST I	008	250	37.5	A	c
PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING ASST II	008	250	37.5	A	c
PUBLIC HEALTH PHYSICIST	007	616	37.5	A	E
PUBLIC HEALTH SOCIAL WORKER	005	535	37.5	A	E
*For Salary Information, See Appendix A - Listing of Classifications By Representation Unit.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-63-
APPENDIX A - ALPHABETICAL LISTING BY CLASS*
CLASSIFICATION	REP. UNIT	SEIU LOCAL	HRS.	O/T STATUS	FLSA STATUS
PUBLIC WORKS AIDE I	004	250	37.5	A	c
PUBLIC WORKS AIDE II	004	250	37.5	A	c
PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR I	012	616	40	A	c
PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR II	012	616	40	A	c
PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR III	012	616	40	A	c
PURCHASING TECHNICIAN	011	616	37.5	A	c
RECREATION ASSISTANT	012	616	40	A	E
REDEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST I	011	616	37.5	A	c
REDEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST II	011	616	37.5	A	c
REHABILITATION COUNSELOR I	005	535	37.5	A	c
REHABILITATION COUNSELOR II	005	535	37.5	A	E
RETIREMENT SPECIALIST I	010	616	37.5	A	c
RETIREMENT SPECIALIST II	010	616	37.5	A	c
RETIREMENT SPECIALIST III	010	616	37.5	A	c
RETIREMENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST	010	616	37.5	A	c
SECRETARY CLK OF THE BD MINS I	010	616	37.5	A	c
SECRETARY I	010	616	37.5	A	c
SENIOR AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST	011	616	37.5	A	E
SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPEC	007	616	40	A	E
SENIOR FOOD SERVICE WORKER	004	250	37.5	A	C
SENIOR HAZARDOUS MAT.SPEC.	007	616	40	A	E
SENIOR HEAVY EQUIP. PARTS TECH.	012	616	40	A	C
SENIOR MICROBIOLOGIST	007	616	37.5	A	E
SENIOR THERAPIST	007	616	37.5	A	E
SENIOR VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER	008	250	40	A	C
SENIOR WEIGHTS & MEASURES INSP	012	616	37.5	A	C
SENIOR ZONING INVESTIGATOR	011	616	40	A	E
SERVICE SUPPORT SPECIALIST	010	616	37.5	A	C
SHERIFF'S CLERK	010	616	37.5	A	C
SHERIFF'S TECHNICIAN	012	616	40	A	c
SOCIAL WELFARE SPECIALIST	005	535	37.5	A	E
SOCIAL WORKER I	005	535	37.5	A	c
SOCIAL WORKER II	005	535	37.5	A	E
SOCIAL WORKER III	005	535	37.5	A	• E
SOCIAL WORKER TRAINEE	005	535	37.5	A	C
SOFTWARE ANALYST	011	616	40	A	C
SOFTWARE ANALYST I	011	616	40	A	c
SOFTWARE ANALYST TRAINEE	011	616	40	A	c
SPECIALIST CLERK	010	616	37.5	A	c
SPECIALIST CLERK (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
*For Salary Information, See Appendix A - Listing of Classifications By Representation Unit.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-64-
APPENDIX A
- ALPHABETICAL LISTING BY CLASS
CLASSIFICATION	REP. UNIT	SEIU LOCAL	HRS.	O/T STATUS	FLSA STATUS
STATISTICAL TECHNICIAN	012	616	37.5	A	c
STENOGRAPHER I	010	616	37.5	A	c
STENOGRAPHER I (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
STENOGRAPHER II	010	616	37.5	A	c
STENOGRAPHER II (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
STOREKEEPER I	012	616	37.5	A	c
SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELOR	007	616	37.5	A	c
SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELOR (SAN)	007	616	37.5	A	c
SUPPLY CLERK I	012	616	37.5	A	c
SUPPLY CLERK I (SAN)	012	616	37.5	A	c
SUPPLY CLERK II	012	616	37.5	A	c
SUPPLY CLERK II (SAN)	012	616	37.5	A	c
TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST I	012	616	37.5	A	c
TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST II	012	616	37.5	A	c
TELECOM EQUIPMENT INSTALLER	012	616	40	A	c
TELECOM SERVICES COORDINATOR	010	616	40	A	c
TELECOM TECHNICIAN	012	616	40	A	c
TELECOM TECHNICIAN TRAINEE	012	616	40	A	c
TRANSCRIPTIONIST	010	616	37.5	A	c
TRANSCRIPTIONIST (SAN)	010	616	37.5	A	c
VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER	008	250	40	A	c
VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER,TRAINEE	008	250	40	A	c
VETERANS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE	006	535	37.5	A	c
VOCATIONAL SVC SPECIALIST I	005	535	37.5	A	c
VOCATIONAL SVC SPECIALIST II	005	535	37.5	A	E
WEIGHTS & MEASURES INSPECTOR	012	616	37.5	A	c
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ASSISTANT	012	616	37.5	A	c
WELFARE SERVICES AIDE	006	535	37.5	A	c
ZONING INVESTIGATOR	011	616	40	A	c
*For Salary Information, See Appendix A - Listing of Classifications By Representation Unit.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-65-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT SALARIES EFFECTIVE JUNE 25, 2000 Representation Unit III - SEIU Local 616
	ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	STEP 6	STEP 7	MO4-0	MO-HI	HRS	OT* STAT	FLSA STAT
	5300	CLINICAL NURSE I											
	5305	06/25/2000 CLINICAL NURSE II						2150.40	4672	4672	40.0	B	E
	5315	06/25/2000 2258.40 CLINICAL NURSE III	2319.20	2384.80	2489.60	2599.20	2649.60	2704.00	4906	5874	40.0	B	E
	5301 N	06/25/2000 2378.40	2442.40 CLINICAL NURSE PER DIEM		2510.40	2612.80	2727.20	2786.40	2841.60	5167	6173	40.0	B	E
	5337	06/25/2000	283.19	292.06 CLINICAL NURSE SPECIALIST		298.97	311.96	325.47	332.06	338.30			40.0	C	E
	5344	06/25/2000 2636.00	2706.40	2783.20 INFECTION CONTROL PRACTITIONER			2972.80	3152.00	3300.80	3434.40	5727	7461	40.0	C	E
- -	5383	06/25/2000 2258.40	2319.20 MID-LEVEL PRACTITIONER		2384.80	2489.60	2599.20	2649.60	2704.00	4906	5874	40.0	C	E
	5383 N	06/25/2000 2437.60	2502.40 MID-LEVEL PRACTITIONER		2572.80	2739.20	2919.20	3017.60	3078.40	5296	6688	40.0	A	E
		06/25/2000				36.49	37.72	38.48			40.0	A	E
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-66-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit IV - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
7520	ASSISTANT COOK									
7525	06/25/2000	966.00 COOK	1006.50	1050.00	1101.00	1144.50	2099	2486	37.5	A	C
7525 N	06/25/2000 COOK	1174.50	1228.50	1283.25	1334.25	2552	2899	37.5	A	C
7420 N	06/25/2000 CUSTODIAN				16.36			37.5	A	C
7535	06/25/2000 FIRST COOK				13.98			40.0	A	C
7510	06/25/2000 1265.25	1320.75 FOOD SERVICE WORKER		1374.00	1439.25	1500.00	2749	3259	37.5	A	C
7510 N	06/25/2000	1118.25 FOOD SERVICE WORKER		1174.50	1223.25	1267.50	2429	2754	37.5	A	C
7205	06/25/2000 GARDENER 1				15.65			37.5	A	C
7210	06/25/2000 1180.80 GARDENER II	1228.00	1287.20	1344.00	1404.80	2565	3052	40.0	A	C
7410	06/25/2000 1352.80 JANITOR	1417.60	1472.80	1545.60	1615.20	2939	3509	40.0	A	C
7410 N	06/25/2000 1025.25 JANITOR	1071.75	1114.50	1170.00	1220.25	2227	2651	37.5	A	C
7710	06/25/2000 LAUNDRY SERVICE WORKER				14.86			37.5	A	C
7710 N	06/25/2000 1002.75	1050.00 LAUNDRY SERVICE WORKER		1098.75	1142.25	1188.75	2178	2583	37.5	A	C
7750	06/25/2000 LAUNDRY SUPRV, SANTA RITA JAIL				14.64			37.5	A	C
7415	06/25/2000 1263.00 LEAD JANITOR	1329.00	1386.75	1453.50	1521.00	2744	3304	37.5	A	C
7401	06/25/2000 1119.75 PUBLIC WORKS AIDE 1	1167.00	1224.00	1276.50	1334.25	2433	2899	37.5	A	C
7402	06/25/2000 PUBLIC WORKS AIDE II			836.25	869.25	1817	1888	37.5	A	C
7512	06/25/2000	928.50 SENIOR FOOD SERVICE	968.25 WORKER	1006.50	1056.75	1104.00	2017	2398	37.5	A	C
	06/25/2000 1129.50	1176.75	1220.25	1274.25	1328.25	2454	2886	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-67-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit V - SEIU Local 535
ITEM	TITLE	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
	EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3							
6760	ADULT PROTECTIVE SVS WORKER I 06/25/2000 1595.25	1665.00	1746.00	1821.75	1909.50	3466	4148	37.5	A	E
6765	ADULT PROTECTIVE SVS WORKER II 06/25/2000	1821.75	1909.50	1997.25	2091.00	3958	4543	37.5	A	E
6787	CAREER DEVELOPMENT SPEC I 06/25/2000 1629.00	1704.75	1786.50	1872.00	1958.25	3539	4254	37.5	A	E
6740	CHILD WELFARE WORKER I 06/25/2000 1786.50	1865.25	1955.25	2040.75	2139.00	3881	4647	37.5	A	E
6745	CHILD WELFARE WORKER II 06/25/2000	2040.75	2139.00	2237.25	2342.25	4434	5089	37.5	A	E
6784	EMPLOYMENT COUNSELOR 06/25/2000 1409.25	1470.00	1533.00	1602.75	1683.00	3062	3656	37.5	A	E
6783	EMPLOYMENT COUNSELOR TRAINEE 06/25/2000 1181.25	1234.50	1287.00	1346.25	1409.25	2566	3062	37.5	A	C
6737	FAMILY SERVICES SUPPORT WORKER 07/09/2000 1410.00	1473.00	1536.75	1606.50	1682.25	3063	3655	37.5	A	C
6786	JOB DEVELOPER 06/25/2000 1521.75	1587.75	1656.00	1733.25	1821.75	3306	3958	37.5	A	E
6496	MARRIAGE/FAM CHILD COUNS 1 06/25/2000	1746.00	1825.50	1917.00	1998.00	3793	4341	37.5	A	C
6497	MARRIAGE/FAM CHILD COUNS II 06/25/2000	1917.00	1998.00	2094.75	2191.50	4165	4761	37.5	A	C
6405	MEDICAL SOCIAL WORKER 1 06/25/2000	1737.75	1824.75	1902.75	3775	4134	37.5	A	C
6415	MEDICAL SOCIAL WORKER II 06/25/2000	1902.75	1991.25	2084.25	4134	4528	37.5	A	E
6505	PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER I 06/25/2000	1836.00	1920.00	2016.00	2103.00	3989	4569	37.5	A	C
6510	PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER II 06/25/2000	2016.00	2103.00	2202.75	2302.50	4380	5002	37.5	A	E
5775	PUBLIC HEALTH SOCIAL WORKER 06/25/2000	1849.50	1937.25	2024.25	4018	4398	37.5	A	E
6638	REHABILITATION COUNSELOR 1 06/25/2000 1801.50	1881.00	1960.50	2051.25	2157.75	3914	4688	37.5	A	C
6640	REHABILITATION COUNSELOR II 06/25/2000 1960.50	2051.25	2157.75	2259.00	2363.25	4259	5134	37.5	A	E
6792	SOCIAL WELFARE SPECIALIST 06/25/2000 1770.75	1848.00	1943.25	2034.00	2130.00	3847	4627	37.5	A	E
6710	SOCIAL WORKER I 06/25/2000 1410.00	1473.00	1536.75	1606.50	1682.25	3063	3655	37.5	A	C
6715	SOCIAL WORKER II 06/25/2000 1536.00	1606.50	1681.50	1755.75	1828.50	3337	3972	37.5	A	E
6720	SOCIAL WORKER III 06/25/2000 1572.00	1639.50	1711.50	1788.75	1878.00	3415	4080	37.5	A	E
6705 6781	SOCIAL WORKER TRAINEE 06/25/2000 VOCATIONAL SVC SPECIALIST I 06/25/2000 1205.25	1260.75	1314.00	1374.00	1326.75 1438.50	2882 2618	2882 3125	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
6782	VOCATIONAL SVC SPECIALIST II 06/25/2000 1438.50	1500.75	1565.25	1636.50	1716.75	3125	3730	37.5	A	E
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25,2000 - July 5, 2003
-68-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VI - SEIU Local 535
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT	
1470	ELIGIBILITY TECH I									
1471	06/25/2000 1178.25	1226.25 ELIGIBILITY TECH II	1284.00	1336.50	1395.75	2560	3032	37.5	A	C	
1472	06/25/2000 1284.00	1336.50 ELIGIBILITY TECH III	1395.75	1458.75	1522.50	2789	3308	37.5	A	C	
1468	06/25/2000 1371.00	1432.50 ELIGIBILITY TECHNICIAN TRAINEE	1494.00	1566.75	1638.00	2978	3559	37.5	A	C	
6929	06/25/2000 INFORMATION & REFERRAL WORKER			1040.25	2260	2260	37.5	A	C	
6732	06/25/2000 1140.00	1189.50 LICENSING EVALUATOR	1243.50	1296.00	1354.50	2477	2943	37.5	A	C	
1496	06/25/2000 1509.75	1580^25 PATIENT SERVICES TECH 1	1653.75	1726.50	1797.75	3280	3906	37.5	A	C	
1497	06/25/2000 1178.25	1226.25 PATIENT SERVICES TECH II	1284.00	1336.50	1395.75	2560	3032	37.5	A	C	-	J
1495	06/25/2000 1284.00	1336.50 PATIENT SERVICES TECH III	1395.75	1458.75	1522.50	2789	3308	37.5	A	C	
1476	06/25/2000 1371.00	1432.50	1494.00 VETERANS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE		1566.75	1638.00	2978	3559	37.5	A	C	
6702	09/03/2000 1284.00	1336.50 WELFARE SERVICES AIDE	1395.75	1458.75	1522.50	2789	3308	37.5	A	C	
	06/25/2000 1215.00	1266.75	1314.00	1374.00	1434.75	2640	3117	37.5	A	C	
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-69-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
5887	ACUPUNCTURIST								
5850	06/25/2000 1638.40	1719.20	1804.00 CEREBRAL PALSY THERAPST (OCC)		1894.40	1991.20	3559	4326	40.0	A	C
5860	06/25/2000 1984.50	2079.75	2177.25 CEREBRAL PALSY THERAPST (PHYS)		2282.25	2397.75	4311	5209	37.5	A	E
5644	06/25/2000 1984.50	2079.75	2177.25 CLINICAL PHARMACIST SPECIALIST		2282.25	2397.75	4311	5209	37.5	A	E
6316	06/25/2000 2539.20	2666.40 CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST	2800.00	2940.00	3087.20	5516	6707	40.0	C	E
6316 N	06/25/2000 CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST	2382.00	2500.50	2613.75	5175	5678	37.5	A	E
6305 N	06/25/2000 CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST TRAINEE			30.25			37.5	A	E
5779	06/25/2000 DENTAL HYGIENIST			16.39			37.5	A	C
5660	06/25/2000 1507.50	1580.25	1651.50 ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPEC TRAINE		1736.25	1815.00	3275	3943	37.5	A	E
5665	06/25/2000	1565.60	1636.80 ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPECIALIST		1713.60	1788.80	3401	3886	40.0	A	C
5650	06/25/2000 2100.80	2198.40	2300.80 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SPECIALIST		2398.40	2516.80	4564	5468	40.0	A	E
5649	06/25/2000 2100.80	2198.40	2300.80 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TECHNICIAN		2398.40	2516.80	4564	5468	40.0	A	E
5780	06/25/2000 1788.80	1872.80 HEALTH EDUCATOR 1	1961.60	2046.40	2145.60	3886	4661	40.0	A	C
5781	06/25/2000	1379.25 HEALTH EDUCATOR II	1434.75	1501.50	1568.25	2996	3407	37.5	A	E
2080	06/25/2000 INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE ENGINEER	1721.25	1807.50	1891.50	3739	4109	37.5	A	E
5605	06/25/2000	2382.40 MICROBIOLOGIST	2496.80	2612.80	2738.40	5176	5949	40.0	A	E
5605 N	06/25/2000 1734.00	1806.00 MICROBIOLOGIST	1887.00	1975.50	2059.50	3767	4474	37.5	A	E
5795	06/25/2000 NUTRITIONIST			25.14			37.5	A	E
5810	06/25/2000 1748.25	1824.75 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST 1	1915.50	2004.75	2099.25	3798	4561	37.5	A	E
5810 N	06/25/2000 1956.00	2046.00 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST 1	2136.75	2242.50	2353.50	4249	5113	37.5	A	E
5815	06/25/2000 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST II			28.49			37.5	A	E
5806	06/25/2000 2200.50	2310.00	2420.25 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY ASSISTANT		2538.75	2641.50	4781	5739	37.5	A	E
5835	06/25/2000 1169.25	1221.75 PHYSICAL THERAPIST 1	1276.50	1336.50	1391.25	2540	3022	37.5	A	C
5835 N	06/25/2000 1956.00	2046.00 PHYSICAL THERAPIST I	2136.75	2242.50	2353.50	4249	5113	37.5	A	E
5840	06/25/2000 PHYSICAL THERAPIST II			28.49			37.5	A	E
5689	06/25/2000 2200.50	2310.00 PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEER	2420.25	2538.75	2641.50	4781	5739	37.5	A	E
5770	06/25/2000 PUBLIC HEALTH INVESTIGATOR	2439.00	2561.25	2685.75	5299	5835	37.5	A	E
	06/25/2000 1343.25	1404.75	1467.75	1534.50	1607.25	2918	3492	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-70-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
5771	PUBLIC HEALTH INVESTIGTR TR								
5787	06/25/2000 PUBLIC HEALTH PHYSICIST		874.50	914.25	1900	1986	37.5	A	C
5667	06/25/2000 1812.75	1902.00	1990.50 SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPEC		2082.00	2183.25	3938	4743	37.5	A	E
5655	06/25/2000 2380.00	2489.60 SENIOR HAZARDOUS MAT.SPEC.	2604.00	2718.40	2850.40	5171	6192	40.0	A	E
5610	06/25/2000 2380.00	2489.60 SENIOR MICROBIOLOGIST	2604.00	2718.40	2850.40	5171	6192	40.0	A	E
5865	06/25/2000 1839.75	1928.25 SENIOR THERAPIST	2009.25	2106.75	2210.25	3997	4802	37.5	A	E
6495	06/25/2000 2110.50	2216.25 SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELOR	2326.50	2442.75	2565.75	4585	5574	37.5	A	E
6495 N	06/25/2000 1287.75	1345.50 SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELOR	1401.75	1467.75	1534.50	2798	3334	37.5	A	C
	06/25/2000			18.69			37.5	A	C
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-71-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VIII - SEIU Local 250
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
6701	COMMUNITY OUTREACH WORKER								
5510	06/25/2000 1287.75	1345.50 DENTAL ASSISTANT	1401.75	1467.75	1534.50	2798	3334	37.5	A	C
7879	06/25/2000 1251.75	1306.50 HEALTH SERVICES TRAINEE	1359.00	1423.50	1482.75	2719	3221	37.5	A	C
7850	06/25/2000	891.00	929.25 LABORATORY ASSISTANT I	967.50	1014.75	1050.75	1936	2283	37.5	A	C
7850 N	06/25/2000 1052.25	1096.50 LABORATORY ASSISTANT 1	1146.75	1191.00	1242.00	2286	2698	37.5	A	C
7855	06/25/2000 LABORATORY ASSISTANT II			15.28			37.5	A	C
7856	06/25/2000 1122.75	1175.25 LABORATORY ASSISTANT III	1220.25	1275.75	1329.00	2439	2887	37.5	A	C
5420	06/25/2000 1200.75	1243.50 LICENSED VOCATIONAL NURSE	1302.00	1357.50	1422.75	2609	3091	37.5	A	C
5420 N	06/25/2000 1461.75	1497.75 LICENSED VOCATIONAL NURSE	1533.00	1567.50	1607.25	3176	3492	37.5	A	C
1160	06/25/2000	158.17	160.79 MEDICAL TRANSLATOR I	163.25	166.34	168.92			37.5	A	C
1161	06/25/2000 MEDICAL TRANSLATOR II	1227.00	1285.50	1330.50	2666	2891	37.5	A	C
1161 N	06/25/2000 1242.00	1305.75 MEDICAL TRANSLATOR II	1380.00	1451.25	1524.00	2698	3311	37.5	A	C
6490	06/25/2000 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST I			18.35			37.5	A	C
6491	06/25/2000 1140.00	1192.50 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST II	1242.00	1292.25	1353.00	2477	2939	37.5	B	C
6491 N	06/25/2000	1305.00 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST II	1362.00	1425.75	1489.50	2835	3236	37.5	B	C
6492	06/25/2000 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST III			18.15			37.5	B	C
5415	06/25/2000 1430.25	1491.00 NURSING ASSISTANT	1557.75	1630.50	1701.00	3107	3695	37.5	B	C
5415 N	06/25/2000 1125.00	1173.75 NURSING ASSISTANT	1221.75	1271.25	1331.25	2444	2892	37.5	A	C
5798	06/25/2000	121.78	126.06 NUTRITION ASSISTANT 1	132.00	138.02	144.01			37.5	A	C
5799	06/25/2000 1175.25	1233.75 NUTRITION ASSISTANT II	1295.25	1359.75	1428.75	2553	3104	37.5	A	C
5800	06/25/2000 1287.75	1345.50 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY AIDE	1401.75	1467.75	1534.50	2798	3334	37.5	A	C
5825	06/25/2000 1155.75	1197.75 PHYSICAL THERAPY AIDE	1255.50	1308.75	1372.50	2511	2982	37.5	A	C
5823	06/25/2000 1173.00	1215.00 PHYSICAL THERAPY ASSISTANT	1274.25	1329.00	1392.00	2548	3024	37.5	A	c
5743 N	06/25/2000 1169.25	1221.75 PSYCHIATRIC TECHNICIAN	1276.50	1336.50	1391.25	2540	3022	37.5	A	c
5980	06/25/2000 PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING ASST 1			150.43			37.5	A	c
5981	06/25/2000	913.50	957.75 PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING ASST II	1011.75	1055.25	1109.25	1985	2410	37.5	A	c
	06/25/2000 1108.50	1156.50	1205.25	1254.00	1313.25	2408	2853	37.5	A	c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25,2000 - July 5, 2003
-72-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VIII - SEIU Local 250
TITLE	OT* FLSA
ITEM	EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	STAT	STAT
5684	SENIOR VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER 06/25/2000 1565.60	1635.20	1707.20	1780.80	1868.00	3401	4058	40.0	A	C
5683	VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER 06/25/2000 1489.60	1555.20	1626.40	1696.00	1778.40	3236	3864	40.0	A	C
5682	VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER,TRAINEE 06/25/2000	1376.80	1442.40	2991	3134	40.0	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-73-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit X - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1281	ABSENTEE VOTING TECHNICIAN									
1305	06/25/2000 1219.50 ACCOUNT CLERK 1	1276.50	1327.50	1393.50	1453.50	2649	3158	37.5	A	C
1305 N	06/25/2000 1064.25 ACCOUNT CLERK 1	1110.75	1157.25	1203.75	1263.00	2312	2744	37.5	A	C
1310	06/25/2000 ACCOUNT CLERK II				14.06			37.5	A	C
1310 N	06/25/2000 1140.00 ACCOUNT CLERK II	1185.00	1242.75	1293.00	1349.25	2477	2931	37.5	A	C
1314	06/25/2000 ACCOUNTING SPECIALIST				16.57			37.5	A	C
1142	06/25/2000 1260.00	1325.60 ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT		1384.80	1460.80	1530.40	2737	3325	40.0	A	C
1491	06/25/2000 1490.40 BILLING TECHNICIAN I	1564.80	1636.00	1726.40	1808.00	3238	3928	40.0	A	c
1492	06/25/2000 1095.75 BILLING TECHNICIAN II	1147.50	1189.50	1244.25	1299.75	2381	2824	37.5	A	c
1493	06/25/2000 1163.25 BILLING TECHNICIAN III	1215.00	1268.25	1323.00	1381.50	2527	3001	37.5	A	c
1480	06/25/2000 1257.00 BUYER’S ASSISTANT	1314.00	1374.00	1434.00	1490.25	2731	3238	37.5	A	c
1115	06/25/2000 1189.50 CLERK I	1245.00	1294.50	1357.50	1414.50	2584	3073	37.5	A	c
1115 N	06/25/2000 CLERK 1	1030.50	1071.75	1122.75	1170.00	2239	2542	37.5	A	c
1120	06/25/2000 CLERK II				14.29			37.5	A	c
1120 N	06/25/2000 CLERK II	1170.00	1213.50	1269.00	1318.50	2542	2864	37.5	A	c
1296 N	06/25/2000 CLERK INTERMITTENT 1				16.07			37.5	A	c
1297 N	06/25/2000 CLERK INTERMITTENT II				14.51			37.5	A	c
1521	06/25/2000	999.00	1046.25 CLERK-RECORDER’S SPECIALIST 1		1088.25	1133.25	1178.25			37.5	A	c
1522	06/25/2000	1170.00	1213.50 CLERK-RECORDER'S SPECIALIST II			1269.00	1318.50	2542	2864	37.5	A	c
1523	06/25/2000 1217.25	1272.00	1323.00 CLERK-RECORDER'S SPECIALIST III			1386.00	1441.50	2644	3132	37.5	A	c
1130	06/25/2000 1388.25 DATA CONTROL TYPIST	1449.75	1507.50	1580.25	1643.25	3016	3570	37.5	A	c
1805	06/25/2000 1116.00	1170.00 DATA ENTRY OPERATOR		1213.50	1269.00	1318.50	2425	2864	37.5	A	c
1131	06/25/2000 1116.00 DATA INPUT CLERK	1170.00	1213.50	1269.00	1318.50	2425	2864	37.5	A	c
1282	06/25/2000 1116.00	1170.00 ELECTIONS TECHNICIAN		1213.50	1269.00	1318.50	2425	2864	37.5	A	c
1132	06/25/2000 1341.00	1404.75 ELIGIBILITY SUPPORT CLERK		1460.25	1533.00	1598.25	2913	3472	37.5	A	c
1121	06/25/2000 1185.75 1239.75 HUMAN RESOURCES ASSISTANT I		1285.50	1347.00	1401.00	2576	3044	37.5	A	c
1122	06/25/2000	1211.25 HUMAN RESOURCES ASSISTANT II		1260.00	1320.00	1372.50	2631	2982	37.5	A	c
	06/25/2000	1259.25	1325.25	1395.75	1468.50	2736	3190	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-74-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit X - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1124	LEAD CLERK									
1217	06/25/2000 1177.50	1230.00	1278.00 LEAD MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST			1340.25	1393.50	2558	3027	37.5	A	C
1511	06/25/2000	1392.00 LEGAL PROCESS CLERK I		1453.50	1517.25	1586.25	3024	3446	37.5	A	C
1513	06/25/2000 1122.75	1170.00 LEGAL PROCESS CLERK II		1213.50	1269.00	1318.50	2439	2864	37.5	A	C
1240	06/25/2000 1146.75 LEGAL SECRETARY	1194.00	1251.00	1308.00	1368.75	2491	2974	37.5	A	C
1213	06/25/2000 1240.50	1293.00 LEGAL STENOGRAPHER		1346.25	1410.75	1473.00	2695	3200	37.5	A	C
1103	06/25/2000 LIBRARY CLERK 1	1237.50	1293.00	1350.75	1407.00	2688	3057	37.5	A	C
1103 N	06/25/2000 LIBRARY CLERK 1	1030.50	1071.75	1122.75	1170.00	2239	2542	37.5	A	C
1104	06/25/2000 LIBRARY CLERK II				14.29			37.5	A	C
1104 N	06/25/2000 LIBRARY CLERK II	1170.00	1213.50	1269.00	1318.50	2542	2864	37.5	A	C
1109	06/25/2000 LIBRARY PAGE				16.07			37.5	A	C
1109 N	06/25/2000 LIBRARY PAGE			12.81	13.42	2090	2190	37.5	A	C
1126	06/25/2000 MEDICAL CLERK				12.17			37.5	A	C
1126 N	06/25/2000 1159.50 MEDICAL CLERK	1211.25	1260.00	1320.00	1372.50	2519	2982	37.5	A	C
1214	06/25/2000 MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST				16.80			37.5	A	C
1214 N	06/25/2000	1271.25 MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST		1324.50	1383.00	1443.75	2762	3137	37.5	A	C
1105	06/25/2000 MESSENGER				17.66			37.5	A	c
1105 N	06/25/2000 1050.00 MESSENGER	1097.25	1140.00	1193.25	1239.00	2281	2692	37.5	A	C
1153	06/25/2000 MICROFILM TECHNICIAN				15.20			37.5	A	c
1152	06/25/2000 1068.00	1110.00 MICROFILM TECHNICIAN TRAINEE		1161.00	1213.50	1262.25	2320	2742	37.5	A	c
1156	06/25/2000	966.00 MICROGRAPHIC SPECIALIST		1001.25	1047.75	1088.25	2099	2364	37.5	A	C
1127	06/25/2000 1116.00	1164.00 PAYROLL RECORDS CLERK		1211.25	1269.00	1318.50	2425	2864	37.5	A	C
1125	06/25/2000 1159.50	1211.25	1260.00 PAYROLL RECORDS CLERK, AUD-CON			1320.00	1372.50	2519	2982	37.5	A	C
8521	06/25/2000 1173.00	1224.00	1269.75 PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY TECH.			1331.25	1386.00	2548	3011	37.5	A	c
	06/25/2000 1131.75	1173.75.	1232.25	1281.75	1344.75	2459	2921	37.5	A	c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-75-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit X - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	SIEP5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1351	RETIREMENT SPECIALIST I									
1352	06/25/2000 1197.00	1246.50 RETIREMENT SPECIALIST II		1305.00	1360.50	1419.00	2600	3083	37.5	A	C
1353	06/25/2000 1335.00	1404.75 RETIREMENT SPECIALIST III		1481.25	1557.00	1639.50	2900	3562	37.5	A	C
1344	06/25/2000 1630.50	1717.50	1808.25 RETIREMENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST			1902.75	2003.25	3542	4352	37.5	A	C
1218	06/25/2000 1186.50	1245.75 SECRETARY CLK BD MINUTES 1		1308.00	1373.25	1442.25	2578	3133	37.5	A	C
1215	06/25/2000 1318.50 SECRETARY I	1375.50	1434.75	1500.00	1565.25	2864	3401	37.5	A	C
1133	06/25/2000 1213.50	1269.75 SERVICE SUPPORT SPECIALIST		1327.50	1385.25	1446.00	2636	3141	37.5	A	C
1284	06/25/2000 1173.00 SHERIFF'S CLERK	1226.25	1271.25	1332.75	1386.00	2548	3011	37.5	A	C
1128	06/25/2000 1192.50 SPECIALIST CLERK	1239.00	1298.25	1349.25	1414.50	2591	3073	37.5	A	C
1128 N	06/25/2000 SPECIALIST CLERK	1211.25	1260.00	1320.00	1372.50	2631	2982	37.5	A	C
1205	06/25/2000 STENOGRAPHER I				16.16			37.5	A	C
1205 N	06/25/2000 STENOGRAPHER I	1047.75	1094.25	1139.25	1186.50	2276	2578	37.5	A	C
1210	06/25/2000 STENOGRAPHER II				14.58			37.5	A	C
1210 N	06/25/2000 STENOGRAPHER II		1231.50	1286.25	1340.25	2675	2912	37.5	A	C
9288	06/25/2000 TELECOM SERVICES COORDINATOR				16.90			37.5	A	C
1212	06/25/2000 1870.40 TRANSCRIPTIONIST	1960.80	2050.40	2155.20	2265.60	4063	4922	40.0	A	C
1212 N	06/25/2000 TRANSCRIPTIONIST		1261.50	1318.50	1373.25	2741	2983	37.5	A	C
	06/25/2000				17.54			37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-76-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
	EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3							
0132	ACCOUNTANT I 06/25/2000	1669.50	1743.00	1824.00	3627	3963	37.5	A	E
0135	ACCOUNTANT II 06/25/2000 1550.25	1618.50	1693.50	1774.50	1854.00	3368	4028	37.5	A	E
0130	ACCOUNTANT-AUDITOR 06/25/2000	1534.50	1602.00	1669.50	3334	3627	37.5	A	C
8215	AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST 06/25/2000 1399.50	1467.00	1529.25	1602.00	1677.75	3040	3645	37.5	A	E
8205 2610	AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST TRAINEE 06/25/2000 APPRAISER I 06/25/2000	1423.50	1490.25	1277.25 1554.75	2775 3093	2775 3378	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
2610 N 2615	APPRAISER 1 06/25/2000 APPRAISER II 06/25/2000 1590.75	1659.75	1739.25	1815.75	19.36 1904.25	3456	4137	37.5 37.5	A A	C E
2615 N 2620	APPRAISER II 06/25/2000 APPRAISER III 06/25/2000 1803.75	1886.25	1980.00	2067.75	23.25 2173.50	3919	4722	37.5 37.5	A A	E E
2605	APPRAISER INTERN 06/25/2000	824.25	856.50	885.75	1791	1924	37.5	A	C
2203	ARCHITECTURAL PROJ COORD 1 06/25/2000 1543.50	1619.25	1692.00	1767.75	1847.25	3353	4013	37.5	A	C
2205	ARCHITECTURAL PROJ COORD 11 06/25/2000 1730.25	1811.25	1896.75	1980.00	2070.00	3759	4497	37.5	A	E
8509	ASSISTANT PUBLIC GUARDN-CONSRVTR 06/25/2000	1821.75	1909.50	1997.25	2091.00	3958	4543	37.5	A	E
2510	ASSISTANT RIGHT OF WAY AGENT 06/25/2000 1423.20	1496.80	1563.20	1636.00	1710.40	3092	3716	40.0	A	E
2515	ASSOCIATE RIGHT OF WAY AGENT 06/25/2000 2088.00	2188.00	2292.80	2400.00	2517.60	4536	5469	40.0	A	E
0142	AUDITOR I 06/25/2000 1478.25	1545.75	1615.50	1688.25	1769.25	3211	3844	37.5	A	E
0145	AUDITOR II 06/25/2000 1625.25	1700.25	1782.75	1862.25	1948.50	3531	4233	37.5	A	E
2705	AUDITOR-APPRAISER 1 06/25/2000	1423.50	1490.25	1554.75	3093	3378	37.5	A	C
2705 N 2710	AUDITOR-APPRAISER I 06/25/2000 AUDITOR-APPRAISER II 06/25/2000 1590.75	1659.75	1739.25	1815.75	19.36 1904.25	3456	4137	37.5 37.5	A A	C E
2710 N 2715	AUDITOR-APPRAISER II 06/25/2000 AUDITOR-APPRAISER III 06/25/2000 1803.75	1886.25	1980.00	2067.75	23.25 2173.50	3919	4722	37.5 37.5	A A	E E
0128	AUDITOR-INTERN 06/25/2000	856.50	891.00	920.25	1861	1999	37.5	A	C
2968	BONDS & FINANCE TECHNICIAN I 06/25/2000 1258.50	1321.50	1386.75	1455.75	1527.75	2734	3319	37.5	A	C
2969	BONDS & FINANCE TECHNICIAN II 06/25/2000 1397.25	1467.00	1533.75	1618.50	1695.00	3036	3682	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-77-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1 STEP 2	STEP 3	shp4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
0172	BUYER I								
0173	06/25/2000 BUYER II	1328.25	1386.75	1449.75	2886	3150	37.5	A	C
5553	06/25/2000 1587.75	1656.75 CHEMIST	1735.50	1818.00	1899.75	3449	4127	37.5	A	E
2970	06/25/2000 1924.80	2006.40	2101.60 2201.60 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN SPECIALIST 1			2300.80	4182	4998	40.0	A	E
2971	06/25/2000 1258.50	1321.50	1386.75	1455.00 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN SPECIALIST II			1527.75	2734	3319	37.5	A	C
8523	06/25/2000 1397.25	1467.00 CRIMINALIST 1	1533.75	1618.50	1695.00	3036	3682	37.5	A	C
8524	06/25/2000 1797.00	1881.00 CRIMINALIST II	1970.25	2066.25	2165.25	3904	4704	37.5	A	C
8525	06/25/2000 1973.25	2066.25 CRIMINALIST III	2165.25	2269.50	2369.25	4287	5147	37.5	A	E
2964	06/25/2000 2165.25	2269.50 HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC I	2369.25	2485.50	2609.25	4704	5669	37.5	A	E
2965	06/25/2000 1607.25	1683.00 HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC II	1754.25	1838.25	1923.75	3492	4179	37.5	A	C
2966	06/25/2000 1838.25	1923.75 HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC III	2012.25	2104.50	2197.50	3994	4774	37.5	A	C
2961	06/25/2000 2104.50	2197.50	2304.00 HOUSING & COMM DEV TECHNICIAN		2409.75	2533.50	4572	5504	37.5	A	c
2955	06/25/2000 1368.00	1431.75 HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST I	1491.00	1561.50	1630.50	2972	3542	37.5	A	c
2956	06/25/2000 1607.25	1683.00 HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST II	1754.25	1838.25	1923.75	3492	4179	37.5	A	c
2957	06/25/2000 1838.25	1923.75 HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST III	2012.25	2104.50	2197.50	3994	4774	37.5	A	c
8202	06/25/2000 2104.50	2197.50 INSECT TRAPPER	2304.00	2409.75	2533.50	4572	5504	37.5	A	c
8202 N	06/25/2000 1021.50	1072.50 INSECT TRAPPER	1126.50	1182.75	1241.25	2219	2697	37.5	A	c
5550	06/25/2000	13.62	14.30 LABORATORY TECHNICIAN	15.02	15.77	16.55			37.5	A	c
2962	06/25/2000 1408.50	1471.50 LEAD INSPECTION TECHNICIAN	1540.50	1611.75	1689.75	3060	3671	37.5	A	c
2963	06/25/2000 1190.25	1237.50 LEAD RISK ASSESSOR	1294.50	1351.50	1410.75	2586	3065	37.5	A	c
4130	06/25/2000 1470.00	1539.00 LIBRARIAN I	1604.25	1680.75	1758.75	3194	3821	37.5	A	c
4130 N	06/25/2000	1454.25 LIBRARIAN I	1519.50	1591.50	1665.75	3159	3619	37.5	A	E
4140	06/25/2000 LIBRARIAN II			20.26			37.5	A	E
4140 N	06/25/2000	1618.50 LIBRARIAN II	1696.50	1777.50	1863.75	3516	4049	37.5	A	E
4175	06/25/2000 LIBRARIAN III			22.62			37.5	A	E
	06/25/2000 1658.25	1737.75	1818.75	1902.00	1997.25	3603	4339	37.5	A	E
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-78-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
4115	LIBRARY ASSISTANT I								
4120	06/25/2000 1233.00	1287.75 LIBRARY ASSISTANT II	1351.50	1410.75	1465.50	2679	3184	37.5	A	C
4120 N	06/25/2000 1336.50	1395.00 LIBRARY ASSISTANT II	1447.50	1520.25	1585.50	2904	3444	37.5	A	C
1417	06/25/2000 LITERACY ADVOCATE			19.29			37.5	A	C
8204	06/25/2000 1287.75	1345.50 PEST DETECTION SPECIALIST	1401.75	1467.75	1534.50	2798	3334	37.5	A	C
8204 N	06/25/2000 1269.75	1336.50 PEST DETECTION SPECIALIST	1401.00	1472.25	1547.25	2759	3361	37.5	A	C
2925	06/25/2000 PLANNER 1			18.68			37.5	A	C
2930	06/25/2000 1607.25	1683.00 PLANNER II	1754.25	1838.25	1923.75	3492	4179	37.5	A	E
2935	06/25/2000 1838.25	1923.75 PLANNER III	2012.25	2104.50	2197.50	3994	4774	37.5	A	E
2921	06/25/2000 2104.50	2197.50 PLANNING TECHNICIAN I	2304.00	2409.75	2533.50	4572	5504	37.5	A	E
2922	06/25/2000 1212.75	1272.75 PLANNING TECHNICIAN II	1311.00	1377.75	1446.75	2635	3143	37.5	A	C
1825	06/25/2000 1308.75	1374.00 PROGRAMMER ANALYST	1443.00	1515.75	1590.75	2843	3456	37.5	A	C
1821	06/25/2000 2254.40	2360.00 PROGRAMMER 1	2467.20	2587.20	2710.40	4898	5888	40.0	A	E
1823	06/25/2000 1668.00	1746.40 PROGRAMMER II	1816.80	1905.60	1997.60	3624	4340	40.0	A	C
1819	06/25/2000 1932.80	2026.40 PROGRAMMING TECHNICIAN 1	2120.80	2224.00	2326.40	4199	5054	40.0	A	C
1820	06/25/2000 PROGRAMMING TECHNICIAN II	1384.00	1452.80	1526.40	3007	3316	40.0	A	c
0171	06/25/2000 PURCHASING TECHNICIAN	1490.40	1561.60	1629.60	3238	3540	40.0	A	C
2980	06/25/2000 1307.25	1368.75 REDEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST I	1428.00	1496.25	1557.75	2840	3384	37.5	A	C
2981	06/25/2000 1607.25	1683.00 REDEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST II	1754.25	1838.25	1923.75	3492	4179	37.5	A	c
8225	06/25/2000 1838.25	1923.75	2012.25 SENIOR AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST		2104.50	2197.50	3994	4774	37.5	A	C
8685	06/25/2000 1517.25	1587.75 SENIOR ZONING INVESTIGATOR	1666.50	1747.50	1830.00	3296	3976	37.5	A	E
1842	06/25/2000 1942.40	2027.20 SOFTWARE ANALYST	2127.20	2226.40	2339.20	4220	5082	40.0	A	E
1840	06/25/2000 2148.00	2245.60 SOFTWARE ANALYST I	2352.00	2466.40	2583.20	4667	5612	40.0	A	C
1839	06/25/2000 1832.00	1924.80 SOFTWARE ANALYST TRAINEE	2021.60	2121.60	2228.00	3980	4840	40.0	A	C
8680	06/25/2000 1672.00	1755.20 ZONING INVESTIGATOR	1844.80	1934.40	2032.80	3632	4416	40.0	A	C
	06/25/2000 1696.80	1773.60	1856.00	1942.40	2027.20	3686	4404	40.0	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-79-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
8163	ANIMAL CONTROL AIDE								
8163 N	06/25/2000 1021.50	1073.25 ANIMAL CONTROL AIDE	1126.50	1182.75	1242.00	2219	2698	37.5	A	C
2602	06/25/2000 ASSESSMENT TECHNICIAN			10.65			37.5	A	C
2700	06/25/2000 1246.50	1303.50 AUDITOR-APPRAISER AIDE	1356.75	1416.75	1474.50	2708	3203	37.5	A	C
9408	06/25/2000 1095.75	1149.75 AUTO PARTS TECHNICIAN	1209.00	1268.25	1332.75	2381	2895	37.5	A	C
9200	06/25/2000 BOOKMENDER			1444.80	3139	3139	40.0	A	C
9312	06/25/2000	1130.25 BOOKMOBILE DRIVER CLERK	1182.00	1230.75	1291.50	2455	2806	37.5	A	C
8305	06/25/2000 1263.00	1320.00 BUILDING INSP 1	1373.25	1440.00	1503.75	2744	3267	37.5	A	C
8310	06/25/2000 1774.40	1856.80 BUILDING INSP II	1946.40	2036.00	2128.80	3855	4625	40.0	A	C
8303	06/25/2000 2036.00	2128.80 BUILDING INSPECTION TECH	2234.40	2343.20	2455.20	4423	5334	40.0	A	C
1420	06/25/2000 1375.20	1432.00 COLLECTION ENFRCEMNT DEPTY I	1501.60	1568.80	1638.40	2988	3559	40.0	A	C
1425	06/25/2000 1293.75	1348.50	1404.75 COLLECTION ENFRCEMNT DEPTY II		1470.00	1533.00	2811	3330	37.5	A	C
1811	06/25/2000 1398.75	1466.25 COMPUTER OPERATOR 1	1529.25	1598.25	1665.00	3039	3617	37.5	A	C
1811 N	06/25/2000 1128.75	1177.50 COMPUTER OPERATOR 1	1231.50	1285.50	1341.00	2452	2913	37.5	A	C
1812	06/25/2000 COMPUTER OPERATOR II			16.41			37.5	A	C
8350	06/25/2000 1263.00	1322.25 CONSTRUCTION INSPECTOR	1376.25	1439.25	1500.00	2744	3259	37.5	A	C
8501	06/25/2000 1006.40 CORONER’S AIDE I			2731.20	2186	5934	40.0	A	C
8502	06/25/2000 1060.50	1106.25 CORONER'S AIDE II	1155.00	1206.00	1260.00	2304	2737	37.5	A	C
8503	06/25/2000 1155.00	1206.00 CORONER'S INVESTIGATOR 1	1260.00	1318.50	1380.00	2509	2998	37.5	A	C
8504	06/25/2000 CORONER'S INVESTIGATOR II	1786.40	1880.80	1981.60	3881	4305	40.0	A	C
8520	06/25/2000 1867.20	1960.80 CRIME LABORATORY TECHNICIAN	2053.60	2152.00	2252.00	4056	4892	40.0	A	C
1809	06/25/2000 1497.75	1566.75 DATA PROCESSING TECH 1	1642.50	1719.00	1797.75	3254	3906	37.5	A	C
1810	06/25/2000	948.00	993.00 DATA PROCESSING TECH II	1045.50	1100.25	1149.75	2060	2498	37.5	A	C
1882	06/25/2000 1005.00	1054.50 EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER I	1107.00	1162.50	1221.75	2183	2654	37.5	A	c
1885	06/25/2000 1417.60	1478.40 EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER II	1545.60	1618.40	1696.80	3080	3686	40.0	A	c
1885 N	06/25/2000 1644.00	1723.20 EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER II	1798.40	1887.20	1976.80	3572	4295	40.0	A	C
	06/25/2000			24.06			40.0	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-80-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
8720	EMERGENCY SERVICES COORD I								
8721	06/25/2000 1448.25	1512.75 EMERGENCY SERVICES COORD II	1580.25	1654.50	1730.25	3146	3759	37.5	A	C
2105	06/25/2000 1609.50	1680.00 ENGINEERING AIDE	1755.00	1840.50	1923.00	3497	4178	37.5	A	E
2122	06/25/2000 1214.40	1261.60 ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH I	1320.00	1377.60	1438.40	2638	3125	40.0	A	C
2123	06/25/2000 1516.00	1575.20 ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH II	1650.40	1729.60	1804.00	3294	3919	40.0	A	C
2124	06/25/2000 1729.60	1804.00 ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH III	1887.20	1973.60	2061.60	3758	4479	40.0	A	C
2111	06/25/2000 1887.20	1973.60 ENGINEERING STAFF ASST I	2061.60	2161.60	2255.20	4100	4899	40.0	A	C
2112	06/25/2000 1516.00	1575.20 ENGINEERING STAFF ASST II	1650.40	1729.60	1804.00	3294	3919	40.0	A	C
2113	06/25/2000 1729.60	1804.00 ENGINEERING STAFF ASST III	1887.20	1973.60	2061.60	3758	4479	40.0	A	C
1426	06/25/2000 1887.20	1973.60 FINANCIAL HEARING OFFICER	2061.60	2161.60	2255.20	4100	4899	40.0	A	C
1426 N	06/25/2000 1573.50	1640.25 FINANCIAL HEARING OFFICER	1716.75	1797.00	1875.00	3418	4073	37.5	A	C
1283	06/25/2000 FINGERPRINT TECHNICIAN			22.89			37.5	A	C
0410	06/25/2000 1288.50	1347.75 INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECH 1	1410.75	1470.75	1532.25	2799	3329	37.5	A	C
0411	06/25/2000 1178.40	1241.60 INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECH II	1297.60	1364.00	1428.80	2560	3104	40.0	A	C
1792	06/25/2000 1434.40	1505.60	1576.00 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST 1		1661.60	1740.00	3116	3780	40.0	A	C
1793	09/03/2000 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST II		1126.50	1182.75	2447	2570	37.5	A	C
1794	09/03/2000 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST III		1242.00	1303.50	2698	2832	37.5	A	C
1795	09/03/2000 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST IV		1368.75	1437.75	2974	3124	37.5	A	C
1475	09/03/2000 INTERVIEWER	1509.00	1584.00	1664.25	3278	3616	37.5	A	C
8740	06/25/2000	1059.75	1104.75 KEEPER	1159.50	1203.75	1256.25	2302	2729	37.5	A	c
8740 N	06/25/2000 1219.20	1278.40 KEEPER	1343.20	1411.20	1482.40	2649	3221	40.0	A	c
8522	06/25/2000 LATENT FINGERPRINT EXAMINER			16.78			40.0	A	c
2967	06/25/2000 1491.75	1559.25 LEAD PROJECT DESIGNER	1635.75	1711.50	1791.75	3241	3893	37.5	A	c
9310	06/25/2000 2209.50	2307.75 LIBRARY DRIVER-CLERK	2419.50	2530.50	2660.25	4800	5779	37.5	A	c
9310 N	06/25/2000 1159.50	1211.25 LIBRARY DRIVER-CLERK	1260.00	1320.00	1372.50	2519	2982	37.5	A	c
	06/25/2000			16.80			37.5	A	c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-81-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE	STEP 4	STEP5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	OT* STAT	FLSA STAT
	EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3							
2301	MAPPING TECHNICIAN I 06/25/2000	1268.25	1327.50	1386.75	2755	3013	37.5	A	C
2302	MAPPING TECHNICIAN II 06/25/2000 1327.50	1386.75	1449.00	1515.75	1582.50	2884	3438	37.5	A	C
2303	MAPPING TECHNICIAN III 06/25/2000 1449.00	1515.75	1582.50	1660.50	1731.75	3148	3762	37.5	A	C
2181	MATERIALS TESTING TECH 1 06/25/2000 1503.20	1565.60	1636.80	1712.00	1788.80	3266	3886	40.0	A	C
2182	MATERIALS TESTING TECH II 06/25/2000 1712.00	1788.80	1870.40	1957.60	2042.40	3719	4437	40.0	A	C
2183	MATERIALS TESTING TECH III 06/25/2000 1880.80	1968.00	2058.40	2151.20	2260.00	4086	4910	40.0	A	C
1460	MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN 06/25/2000 1271.25	1329.75	1382.25	1448.25	1506.75	2762	3273	37.5	A	C
1803	NETWORK SUPPORT TECHNICIAN 1 06/25/2000 1428.00	1498.40	1574.40	1654.40	1736.00	3102	3771	40.0	A	C
1804	NETWORK SUPPORT TECHNICIAN II 06/25/2000 1654.40	1736.00	1823.20	1913.60	2009.60	3594	4366	40.0	A	C
9295	PHOTOGRAPHER 06/25/2000 1323.00	1384.50	1452.00	1516.50	1587.00	2874	3448	37.5	A	C
8308	PLANS CHECKER 06/25/2000 1856.80	1946.40	2036.00	2128.80	2234.40	4034	4854	40.0	A	C
2160	PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR 1 06/25/2000 1582.40	1648.00	1722.40	1800.00	1880.80	3438	4086	40.0	A	C
2161	PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR II 06/25/2000 1880.80	1968.00	2058.40	2151.20	2260.00	4086	4910	40.0	A	C
2162	PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR III 06/25/2000 2058.40	2151.20	2260.00	2356.80	2473.60	4472	5374	40.0	A	C
2604	REAL PROPERTY APPRAISER AIDE 06/25/2000 1170.75	1228.50	1291.50	1356.00	1423.50	2543	3093	37.5	A	C
6831	RECREATION ASSISTANT 06/25/2000 1253.60	1314.40	1382.40	1452.00	1514.40	2723	3290	40.0	A	C
9411 8415	SENIOR HEAVY EQUIP. PARTS TECH 06/25/2000 SENIOR WEIGHTS & MEASURES INSP 06/25/2000 1508.25	1572.75	1639.50	1711.50	1616.80 1792.50	3512 3277	3512 3894	40.0 37.5	A A	C C
8755	SHERIFF’S TECHNICIAN 06/25/2000 1329.60	1390.40	1451.20	1516.00	1585.60	2889	3445	40.0	A	C
0403	STATISTICAL TECHNICIAN 06/25/2000 1068.00	1109.25	1158.00	1213.50	1266.75	2320	2752	37.5	A	C
1715	STOREKEEPER 1 06/25/2000 1192.50	1251.75	1304.25	1368.75	1428.75	2591	3104	37.5	A	c
1705	SUPPLY CLERK I 06/25/2000 1068.75	1114.50	1168.50	1215.00	1272.75	2322	2765	37.5	A	c
1705 N 1710	SUPPLY CLERK 1 06/25/2000 SUPPLY CLERK II 06/25/2000 1089.00	1134.00	1188.00	1245.75	15.56 1302.00	2366	2829	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
1710 N	SUPPLY CLERK II 06/25/2000		16.03			37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-82-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	OT* STAT	FLSA STAT	
1798	TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST I								
1799	09/03/2000 TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST II	1509.00	1584.00	3278	3441	37.5	A	C	- -
9270	09/03/2000	1664.25 TELECOM EQUIPMENT INSTALLER	1743.75	1830.75	3616	3977	37.5	A	C	
9280	06/25/2000 1422.40	1477.60	1547.20 TELECOM TECHNICIAN	1616.80	1682.40	3090	3655	40.0	A	C	- -
9279	06/25/2000 1780.80	1862.40	1949.60 TELECOM TECHNICIAN TRAINEE	2037.60	2139.20	3869	4647	40.0	A	c	
8410	06/25/2000 1422.40	1477.60	1547.20 WEIGHTS & MEASURES INSPECTOR	1616.80	1682.40	3090	3655	40.0	A	c	
8405	06/25/2000	1431.00	1504.50 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ASSISTANT	1568.25	1634.25	3109	3550	37.5	A	c	
	06/25/2000		1372.50	2982	2982	37.5	A	C	
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-83-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT SALARIES EFFECTIVE JULY 2, 2001 Representation Unit III - SEIU Local 616
TITLE	OT* FLSA
ITEM	EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEPS	STEP 6	STEP 7	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	STAT	STAT
5300	CLINICAL NURSE I											
5305	07/08/2001 CLINICAL NURSE II						2257.60	4905	4905	40.0	B	E
5315	07/08/2001 2371.20 CLINICAL NURSE III	2435.20	2504.00	2614.40	2728.80	2782.40	2839.20	5151	6168	40.0	B	E
5301 N	07/08/2001 2497.60	2564.80 CLINICAL NURSE PER DIEM		2636.00	2743.20	2863.20	2925.60	2984.00	5426	6483	40.0	B	E
5337	07/08/2001	297.35	306.66 CLINICAL NURSE SPECIALIST		313.92	327.56	341.74	348.66	355.22			40.0	C	E
5344	07/08/2001 2768.00	2841.60	2922.40 INFECTION CONTROL PRACTITIONER			3121.60	3309.60	3465.60	3606.40	6013	7835	40.0	C	E
5383	07/08/2001 2371.20	2435.20 MID-LEVEL PRACTITIONER		2504.00	2614.40	2728.80	2782.40	2839.20	5151	6168	40.0	C	E
5383 N	07/08/2001 2559.20	2627.20 MID-LEVEL PRACTITIONER		2701.60	2876.00	3064.80	3168.80	3232.00	5560	7022	40.0	A	E
	07/08/2001				38.31	39.61	40.40			40.0	A	E
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-84-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit IV - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	TEP4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
7520	ASSISTANT COOK									
7525	07/08/2001	1014.00 COOK	1056.75	1102.50	1155.75	1201.50	2203	2610	37.5	A	C
7525 N	07/08/2001 COOK	1233.00	1290.00	1347.75	1401.00	2679	3044	37.5	A	C
7420 N	07/08/2001 CUSTODIAN				17.18			37.5	A	C
7535	07/08/2001 FIRST COOK				14.68			40.0	A	C
7510	07/08/2001	1328.25	1386.75 FOOD SERVICE WORKER		1443.00	1511.25	1575.00	2886	3422	37.5	A	C
7510 N	07/08/2001	1174.50 FOOD SERVICE WORKER		1233.00	1284.75	1331.25	2552	2892	37.5	A	C
7205	07/08/2001 GARDENER 1				16.43			37.5	A	C
7210	07/08/2001	1277.60 GARDENER II	1328.00	1392.00	1453.60	1519.20	2776	3300	40.0	A	C
7410	07/08/2001 1463.20 JANITOR	1533.60	1592.80	1672.00	1747.20	3179	3796	40.0	A	C
7410 N	07/08/2001	1076.25 JANITOR	1125.00	1170.00	1228.50	1281.00	2338	2783	37.5	A	C
7710	07/08/2001 LAUNDRY SERVICE WORKER				15.60			37.5	A	C
7710 N	07/08/2001	1053.00	1102.50 LAUNDRY SERVICE WORKER		1153.50	1199.25	1248.00	2288	2711	37.5	A	C
7750	07/08/2001 LAUNDRY SUPRV, SANTA RITA JAIL				15.37			37.5	A	C
7415	07/08/2001	1326.00 LEAD JANITOR	1395.75	1455.75	1526.25	1596.75	2881	3469	37.5	A	C
7401	07/08/2001	1176.00 PUBLIC WORKS AIDE I	1225.50	1285.50	1340.25	1401.00	2555	3044	37.5	A	C
7402	07/08/2001 PUBLIC WORKS AIDE II			878.25	912.75	1908	1983	37.5	A	C
7512	07/08/2001	975.00 SENIOR FOOD SERVICE	1017.00 WORKER	1056.75	1109.25	1159.50	2118	2519	37.5	A	C
	07/08/2001	1185.75	1235.25	1281.00	1338.00	1395.00	2576	3031	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-85-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit V - SEIU Local 535
ITEM	TITLE	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
	EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3							
6760	ADULT PROTECTIVE SVS WORKER I 07/08/2001 1674.75	1748.25	1833.00	1912.50	2004.75	3638	4355	37.5	A	E
6765	ADULT PROTECTIVE SVS WORKER II 07/08/2001	1912.50	2004.75	2097.00	2195.25	4155	4769	37.5	A	E
6787	CAREER DEVELOPMENT SPEC 1 07/08/2001 1710.75	1790.25	1875.75	1965.75	2056.50	3717	4468	37.5	A	E
6740	CHILD WELFARE WORKER 1 07/08/2001 1875.75	1958.25	2052.75	2142.75	2246.25	4075	4880	37.5	A	E
6745	CHILD WELFARE WORKER II 07/08/2001	2142.75	2246.25	2349.00	2459.25	4655	5343	37.5	A	E
6784	EMPLOYMENT COUNSELOR 07/08/2001 1479.75	1543.50	1609.50	1683.00	1767.00	3215	3839	37.5	A	E
6783	EMPLOYMENT COUNSELOR TRAINEE 07/08/2001 1240.50	1296.00	1351.50	1413.75	1479.75	2695	3215	37.5	A	C
6737	FAMILY SERVICES SUPPORT WORKER 07/08/2001 1480.50	1546.50	1613.25	1686.75	1766.25	3216	3837	37.5	A	C
6786	JOB DEVELOPER 07/08/2001 1597.50	1667.25	1738.50	1820.25	1912.50	3471	4155	37.5	A	E
6496	MARRIAGE/FAM CHILD COUNS 1 07/08/2001	1974.75	2058.75	2154.00	2265.75	4290	4922	37.5	A	C
6497	MARRIAGE/FAM CHILD COUNS II 07/08/2001	2154.00	2265.75	2372.75	2481.75	4680	5392	37.5	A	C
6405	MEDICAL SOCIAL WORKER 1 07/08/2001	1824.75	1916.25	1998.00	3964	4341	37.5	A	C
6415	MEDICAL SOCIAL WORKER II 07/08/2001	1998.00	2091.00	2188.50	4341	4755	37.5	A	E
6505	PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER 1 07/08/2001	1974.75	2058.75	2154.00	2265.75	4290	4922	37.5	A	C
6510	PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER II 07/08/2001	2154.00	2265.75	2372.25	2481.75	4680	5392	37.5	A	E
5775	PUBLIC HEALTH SOCIAL WORKER 07/08/2001	1941.75	2034.00	2125.50	4218	4618	37.5	A	E
6638	REHABILITATION COUNSELOR 1 07/08/2001	1891.50	1974.75	2058.75	2154.00	2265.75	4109	4922	37.5	A	C
6640	REHABILITATION COUNSELOR II 07/08/2001 2058.75	2154.00	2265.75	2372.25	2481.75	4473	5392	37.5	A	E
6792	SOCIAL WELFARE SPECIALIST 07/08/2001 1859.25	1940.25	2040.75	2136.00	2236.50	4039	4859	37.5	A	E
6710	SOCIAL WORKER 1 07/08/2001 1480.50	1546.50	1613.25	1686.75	1766.25	3216	3837	37.5	A	C
6715	SOCIAL WORKER II 07/08/2001	1612.50	1686.75	1765.50	1843.50	1920.00	3503	4171	37.5	A	E
6720	SOCIAL WORKER III 07/08/2001	1650.75	1721.25	1797.00	1878.00	1971.75	3586	4284	37.5	A	E
6705 6781	SOCIAL WORKER TRAINEE 07/08/2001 VOCATIONAL SVC SPECIALIST 1 07/08/2001	1265.25	1323.75	1380.00	1443.00	1392.75 1510.50	3026 2749	3026 3282	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
6782	VOCATIONAL SVC SPECIALIST II 07/08/2001 1510.50	1575.75	1643.25	1718.25	1802.25	3282	3915	37.5	A	E
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-86-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VI - SEIU Local 535
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1470	ELIGIBILITY TECH I								
1471	07/08/2001	1250.25	1300.50 ELIGIBILITY TECH II	1362.00	1417.50	1480.50	2716	3216	37.5	A	C
1472	07/08/2001	1362.00	1417.50 ELIGIBILITY TECH III	1480.50	1546.50	1614.75	2959	3508	37.5	A	C
1468	07/08/2001	1453.50	1519.50 ELIGIBILITY TECHNICIAN TRAINEE	1584.75	1661.25	1737.00	3158	3774	37.5	A	C
6929	07/08/2001 INFORMATION & REFERRAL WORKER			1103.25	2397	2397	37.5	A	C
6732	07/08/2001	1209.00	1261.50 LICENSING EVALUATOR	1318.50	1374.00	1436.25	2627	3120	37.5	A	C
1496	07/08/2001 1585.50	1659.00 PATIENT SERVICES TECH I	1736.25	1812.75	1887.75	3444	4101	37.5	A	C
1497	07/08/2001	1250.25	1300.50 PATIENT SERVICES TECH II	1362.00	1417.50	1480.50	2716	3216	37.5	A	C
1495	07/08/2001 1362.00	1417.50 PATIENT SERVICES TECH III	1480.50	1546.50	1614.75	2959	3508	37.5	A	C
1476	07/08/2001	1453.50	1519.50	1584.75 VETERANS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE		1661.25	1737.00	3158	3774	37.5	A	C
6702	07/08/2001	1362.00	1417.50 WELFARE SERVICES AIDE	1480.50	1546.50	1614.75	2959	3508	37.5	A	C
	07/08/2001	1275.75	1329.75	1380.00	1443.00	1506.75	2772	3273	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25,2000 - July 5, 2003
-87-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEPS	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
5887	ACUPUNCTURIST							
5850	07/08/2001 1720.00	1804.80	1894.40 CEREBRAL PALSY THERAPST (OCC)	1988.80	2090.40	3737	4541	40.0	A	C
5860	07/08/2001 2083.50	2184.00	2286.00 CEREBRAL PALSY THERAPST (PHYS)	2396.25	2517.75	4526	5470	37.5	A	E
5644	07/08/2001 2083.50	2184.00	2286.00 CLINICAL PHARMACIST SPECIALIST	2396.25	2517.75	4526	5470	37.5	A	E
6316	07/08/2001 2666.40	2800.00	2940.00 CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST	3087.20	3241.60	5793	7042	40.0	C	E
6316 N	07/08/2001	2501.25 CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST	2625.75	2744.25	5434	5962	37.5	A	E
6305 N	07/08/2001 CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST TRAINEE		31.76			37.5	A	E
5779	07/08/2001 DENTAL HYGIENIST		17.21			37.5	A	C
5660	07/08/2001 1583.25	1659.00	1734.00 ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPEC TRAINE	1823.25	1905.75	3440	4140	37.5	A	E
5665	07/08/2001	1644.00	1718.40 ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPECIALIST	1799.20	1878.40	3572	4081	40.0	A	C
5650	07/08/2001 2205.60	2308.00	2416.00 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SPECIALIST	2518.40	2642.40	4792	5741	40.0	A	E
5649	07/08/2001 2205.60	2308.00	2416.00 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TECHNICIAN	2518.40	2642.40	4792	5741	40.0	A	E
5780	07/08/2001 1878.40	1966.40	2060.00 HEALTH EDUCATOR 1	2148.80	2252.80	4081	4894	40.0	A	C
5781	07/08/2001	1506.00	1566.75 HEALTH EDUCATOR II	1639.50	1713.00	3272	3721	37.5	A	E
2080	07/08/2001	1879.50 INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE ENGINEER	1974.00	2065.50	4083	4487	37.5	A	E
5605	07/08/2001	2501.60	2621.60 MICROBIOLOGIST	2743.20	2875.20	5435	6246	40.0	A	E
5605 N	07/08/2001 1821.00	1896.00	1981.50 MICROBIOLOGIST	2074.50	2162.25	3956	4697	37.5	A	E
5795	07/08/2001 NUTRITIONIST		26.40			37.5	A	E
5810	07/08/2001 1836.00	1916.25	2011.50 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST 1	2105.25	2204.25	3989	4789	37.5	A	E
5810 N	07/08/2001 2053.50	2148.00	2243.25 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST 1	2355.00	2471.25	4461	5369	37.5	A	E
5815	07/08/2001 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST II		29.91			37.5	A	E
5806	07/08/2001 2310.75	2425.50	2541.00 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY ASSISTANT	2665.50	2773.50	5020	6025	37.5	A	E
5835	07/08/2001	1227.75	1282.50	1340.25 PHYSICAL THERAPIST I	1403.25	1461.00	2667	3174	37.5	A	C
5835 N	07/08/2001 2053.50	2148.00	2243.25 PHYSICAL THERAPIST 1	2355.00	2471.25	4461	5369	37.5	A	E
5840	07/08/2001 PHYSICAL THERAPIST II		29.91			37.5	A	E
	07/08/2001 2310.75	2425.50	2541.00	2665.50	2773.50	5020	6025	37.5	A	E
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-88-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
5689	PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEER								
5770	07/08/2001 PUBLIC HEALTH INVESTIGATOR	2561.25	2689.50	2820.00	5564	6126	37.5	A	E
5771	07/08/2001 1410.75	1475.25 PUBLIC HEALTH INVESTIGTR TR	1541.25	1611.00	1687.50	3065	3666	37.5	A	C
5787	07/08/2001 PUBLIC HEALTH PHYSICIST		918.00	960.00	1994	2086	37.5	A	C
5667	07/08/2001 1903.50	1997.25	2090.25 SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPEC		2186.25	2292.75	4135	4981	37.5	A	E
5655	07/08/2001 2499.20	2614.40 SENIOR HAZARDOUS MAT.SPEC.	2734.40	2854.40	2992.80	5430	6502	40.0	A	E
5610	07/08/2001 2499.20	2614.40 SENIOR MICROBIOLOGIST	2734.40	2854.40	2992.80	5430	6502	40.0	A	E
5865	07/08/2001	1932.00	2025.00 SENIOR THERAPIST	2109.75	2211.75	2320.50	4197	5041	37.5	A	E
6495	07/08/2001 2216.25	2327.25 SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELOR	2442.75	2565.00	2694.00	4815	5853	37.5	A	E
6495 N	07/08/2001 1365.75	1427.25 SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELOR	1486.50	1557.00	1626.75	2967	3534	37.5	A	C
	07/08/2001			19.82			37.5	A	C
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-89-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VIII - SEIU Local 250
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
6701	COMMUNITY OUTREACH WORKER								
5510	07/08/2001 1365.75	1427.25 DENTAL ASSISTANT	1486.50	1557.00	1626.75	2967	3534	37.5	A	C
7879	07/08/2001 1314.00	1371.75 HEALTH SERVICES TRAINEE	1427.25	1494.75	1557.00	2855	3383	37.5	A	C
7850	07/08/2001	935.25	975.75 LABORATORY ASSISTANT I	1016.25	1065.75	1103.25	2032	2397	37.5	A	C
7850 N	07/08/2001	1104.75	1151.25 LABORATORY ASSISTANT 1	1203.75	1250.25	1304.25	2400	2833	37.5	A	C
7855	07/08/2001 LABORATORY ASSISTANT II			16.04			37.5	A A	C
7856	07/08/2001 1179.00	1233.75 LABORATORY ASSISTANT III	1281.00	1339.50	1395.75	2561	3032	37.5	A	C
5420	07/08/2001 1260.75	1305.75 LICENSED VOCATIONAL NURSE	1367.25	1425.75	1494.00	2739	3246	37.5	A	C
5420 N	07/08/2001	1534.50	1572.75 LICENSED VOCATIONAL NURSE	1609.50	1646.25	1687.50	3334	3666	37.5	A	C
1160	07/08/2001	166.08	168.83 MEDICAL TRANSLATOR 1	171.41	174.66	177.37			37.5	A	C
1161	07/08/2001 MEDICAL TRANSLATOR II	1288.50	1350.00	1397.25	2799	3036	37.5	A	C
1161 N	07/08/2001	1304.25	1371.00 MEDICAL TRANSLATOR II	1449.00	1524.00	1600.50	2833	3477	37.5	A	C
6490	07/08/2001 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST 1			19.27			37.5	B	C
6491	07/08/2001 1197.00	1252.50 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST II	1304.25	1356.75	1420.50	2600	3086	37.5	B	C
6491 N	07/08/2001	1370.25 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST II	1430.25	1497.00	1563.75	2977	3397	37.5	B	C
6492	07/08/2001 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST III			19.06			37.5	B	C
5415	07/08/2001	1501.50	1565.25 NURSING ASSISTANT	1635.75	1712.25	1785.75	3262	3880	37.5	A	C
5415 N	07/08/2001	1181.25	1232.25 NURSING ASSISTANT	1282.50	1335.00	1398.00	2566	3037	37.5	A	C
5798	07/08/2001	127.87	132.36 NUTRITION ASSISTANT I	138.60	144.92	151.21			37.5	A	c
5799	07/08/2001 1245.75	1308.00 NUTRITION ASSISTANT II	1373.25	1442.25	1515.00	2706	3291	37.5	A	c
5800	07/08/2001 1365.75	1427.25 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY AIDE	1486.50	1557.00	1626.75	2967	3534	37.5	A	c
582$	Q7/08/2001	1213.50	1257.75 PHYSICAL THERAPY AIDE	1318.50	1374.00	1441.50	2636	3132	37.5	A	c
5823	07/08/2001	1231.50	1275.75 PHYSICAL THERAPY ASSISTANT	1338.00	1395.75	1461.75	2675	3176	37.5	A	c
5743 N	07/08/2001	1227.75	1282.50 PSYCHIATRIC TECHNICIAN	1340.25	1403.25	1461.00	2667	3174	37.5	A	c
	07/08/2001			157.95			37.5		c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-90-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VIII - SEIU Local 250
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	or HRS STAT	FLSA STAT
5980	PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING ASST I						A	
5981	07/08/2001	959.25	1005.75 PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING ASST II	1062.00	1107.75	1164.75	2084	2530	37.5 A	C
5684	07/08/2001 1164.00	1214.25	1265.25 SENIOR VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER		1317.00	1379.25	2529	2996	37.5 A	C
5683	07/08/2001 1644.00	1716.80 VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER	1792.80	1869.60	1961.60	3572	4262	40.0 A	C
5682	07/08/2001	1564.00	1632.80	1708.00 VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER,TRAINEE		1780.80	1867.20	3398	4056	40.0 A	c
	07/08/2001		1445.60	1514.40	3141	3290	40.0	c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-91-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit X - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1281	ABSENTEE VOTING TECHNICIAN								
1305	07/08/2001 1280.25	1340.25 ACCOUNT CLERK 1	1394.25	1463.25	1526.25	2781	3316	37.5	A	C
1305 N	07/08/2001	1145.25	1195.50 ACCOUNT CLERK 1	1245.75	1295.25	1359.00	2488	2952	37.5	A	C
1310	07/08/2001 ACCOUNT CLERK II			15.13			37.5	A	C
1310 N	07/08/2001	1227.00	1275.00 ACCOUNT CLERK II	1338.00	1391.25	1452.00	2666	3154	37.5	A	C
1314	07/08/2001 ACCOUNTING SPECIALIST			17.84			37.5	A	C
1142	07/08/2001 1356.00	1427.20 ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT	1490.40	1572.00	1647.20	2946	3579	40.0	A	C
1491	07/08/2001 1564.80	1643.20 BILLING TECHNICIAN 1	1717.60	1812.80	1898.40	3400	4124	40.0	A	C
1492	07/08/2001	1179.00	1235.25 BILLING TECHNICIAN II	1280.25	1339.50	1399.50	2561	3040	37.5	A	C
1493	07/08/2001	1252.50	1308.00 BILLING TECHNICIAN III	1365.00	1423.50	1486.50	2721	3229	37.5	A	C
1480	07/08/2001 1353.00	1414.50 BUYER’S ASSISTANT	1479.00	1543.50	1603.50	2939	3484	37.5	A	C
1115	07/08/2001	1248.75	1307.25 CLERK 1	1359.00	1425.75	1485.00	2713	3226	37.5	A	C
1115 N	07/08/2001	1082.25 CLERK 1	1125.00	1179.00	1228.50	2351	2669	37.5	A	C
1120	07/08/2001 CLERK II			15.00			37.5	A	C
1120 N	07/08/2001	1228.50 CLERK II	1274.25	1332.75	1384.50	2669	3008	37.5	A	C
1296 N	07/08/2001 CLERK INTERMITTENT 1			16.87			37.5	A	C
1297 N	07/08/2001 CLERK INTERMITTENT II			15.24			37.5	A	C
1521	07/08/2001	1049.25	1098.75 CLERK-RECORDER’S SPECIALIST 1	1143.00	1190.25	1237.50			37.5	A	C
1522	07/08/2001	1228.50	1274.25 CLERK-RECORDER'S SPECIALIST II		1332.75	1384.50	2669	3008	37.5	A	C
1523	07/08/2001	1278.00	1335.75	1389.00 CLERK-RECORDER’S SPECIALIST III		1455.00	1513.50	2776	3288	37.5	A	C
1130	07/08/2001	1458.00	1522.50 DATA CONTROL TYPIST	1583.25	1659.00	1725.75	3168	3749	37.5	A	C
1805	07/08/2001 1171.50	1228.50 DATA ENTRY OPERATOR	1274.25	1332.75	1384.50	2545	3008	37.5	A	c
1131	07/08/2001	1171.50	1228.50 DATA INPUT CLERK	1274.25	1332.75	1384.50	2545	3008	37.5	A	c
1282	07/08/2001	1171.50	1228.50 ELECTIONS TECHNICIAN	1274.25	1332.75	1384.50	2545	3008	37.5	A	c
	07/08/2001 1407.75	1475.25	1533.00	1609.50	1678.50	3058	3647	37.5	A	c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-92-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit X - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1132	ELIGIBILITY SUPPORT CLERK									
1121	07/08/2001	1245.00	1302.00 HUMAN RESOURCES ASSISTANT 1		1350.00	1414.50	1470.75	2705	3195	37.5	A	C
1122	07/08/2001	1272.00 HUMAN RESOURCES ASSISTANT II		1323.00	1386.00	1441.50	2763	3132	37.5	A	C
1124	07/08/2001 LEAD CLERK	1322.25	1391.25	1465.50	1542.00	2873	3350	37.5	A	C
1217	07/08/2001 1236.75	1291.50	1341.75 LEAD MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST			1407.00	1463.25	2687	3179	37.5	A	C
1511	07/08/2001	1461.75 LEGAL PROCESS CLERK I		1526.25	1593.00	1665.75	3176	3619	37.5	A	C
1513	07/08/2001 1179.00	1228.50 LEGAL PROCESS CLERK II		1274.25	1332.75	1384.50	2561	3008	37.5	A	C
1240	07/08/2001 1203.75 LEGAL SECRETARY	1254.00	1313.25	1373.25	1437.00	2615	3122	37.5	A	C
1213	07/08/2001 1302.75	1357.50 LEGAL STENOGRAPHER		1413.75	1481.25	1546.50	2830	3360	37.5	A	C
1103	07/08/2001 LIBRARY CLERK 1	1299.75	1357.50	1418.25	1477.50	2824	3210	37.5	A	C
1103 N	07/08/2001 LIBRARY CLERK 1	1082.25	1125.00	1179.00	1228.50	2351	2669	37.5	A	C
1104	07/08/2001 LIBRARY CLERK II				15.00			37.5	A	C
1104 N	07/08/2001 LIBRARY CLERK II	1228.50	1274.25	1332.75	1384.50	2669	3008	37.5	A	C
1109	07/08/2001 LIBRARY PAGE				16.87			37.5	A	C
1109 N	07/08/2001 LIBRARY PAGE			13.45	14.09	2195	2299	37.5	A	C
1126	07/08/2001 MEDICAL CLERK				12.78			37.5	A	c
1126 N	07/08/2001	1217.25 MEDICAL CLERK	1272.00	1323.00	1386.00	1441.50	2644	3132	37.5	A	c
1214	07/08/2001 MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST				17.64			37.5	A	C
1214 N	07/08/2001	1335.00 MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST		1390.50	1452.00	1515.75	2900	3293	37.5	A	c
1105	07/08/2001 MESSENGER				18.54			37.5	A	c
1105 N	07/08/2001	1102.50 MESSENGER	1152.00	1197.00	1253.25	1301.25	2395	2827	37.5	A	c
	07/08/2001				15.96			37.5	A	c
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-93-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit X - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1 STEP 2	STEP 3	SJEP4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1153	MICROFILM TECHNICIAN								
1152	07/08/2001	1121.25	1165.50 MICROFILM TECHNICIAN TRAINEE	1218.75	1274.25	1325.25	2436	2879	37.5	A	C
1156	07/08/2001	1014.00 MICROGRAPHIC SPECIALIST	1051.50	1100.25	1143.00	2203	2483	37.5	A	C
1127	07/08/2001 1171.50	1222.50 PAYROLL RECORDS CLERK	1272.00	1332.75	1384.50	2545	3008	37.5	A	C
1125	07/08/2001 1217.25	1272.00	1323.00 PAYROLL RECORDS CLERK, AUD-CON		1386.00	1441.50	2644	3132	37.5	A	C
8521	07/08/2001	1231.50	1285.50	1333.50 PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY TECH.		1398.00	1455.00	2675	3161	37.5	A	C
1351	07/08/2001	1188.00	1232.25 RETIREMENT SPECIALIST 1	1293.75	1345.50	1412.25	2581	3068	37.5	A	C
1352	07/08/2001	1288.50	1341.75 RETIREMENT SPECIALIST II	1404.75	1464.75	1527.75	2799	3319	37.5	A	C
1353	07/08/2001	1437.00	1512.00 RETIREMENT SPECIALIST III	1594.50	1676.25	1764.00	3122	3832	37.5	A	C
1344	07/08/2001 1755.00	1848.75	1946.25 RETIREMENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST		2048.25	2156.25	3813	4684	37.5	A	C
1218	07/08/2001 1245.75	1308.00 SECRETARY CLK BD MINUTES I	1373.25	1442.25	1514.25	2706	3290	37.5	A	C
1215	07/08/2001	1384.50	1444.50 SECRETARY 1	1506.75	1575.00	1643.25	3008	3570	37.5	A	C
1133	07/08/2001	1274.25	1333.50 SERVICE SUPPORT SPECIALIST	1394.25	1454.25	1518.00	2768	3298	37.5	A	C
1284	07/08/2001 1231.50	1287.75 SHERIFFS CLERK	1335.00	1399.50	1455.00	2675	3161	37.5	A	c
1128	07/08/2001	1252.50	1301.25 SPECIALIST CLERK	1363.50	1416.75	1485.00	2721	3226	37.5	A	c
1128 N	07/08/2001	1272.00 SPECIALIST CLERK	1323.00	1386.00	1441.50	2763	3132	37.5	A	c
1205	07/08/2001 STENOGRAPHER 1			16.97			37.5	A	c
1205 N	07/08/2001	1100.25 STENOGRAPHER 1	1149.00	1196.25	1245.75	2390	2706	37.5	A	c
1210	07/08/2001 STENOGRAPHER II			15.31			37.5	A	c
1210 N	07/08/2001 STENOGRAPHER II	1293.00	1350.75	1407.00	2809	3057	37.5	A	c
9288	07/08/2001 TELECOM SERVICES COORDINATOR			17.75			37.5	A	c
1212	07/08/2001	1964.00	2059.20 TRANSCRIPTIONIST	2152.80	2263.20	2379.20	4267	5169	40.0	A	c
1212 N	07/08/2001 TRANSCRIPTIONIST	1324.50	1384.50	1442.25	2877	3133	37.5	A	C
	07/08/2001			18.42			37.5	A	c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-94-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
	EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3							
0132	ACCOUNTANT I 07/08/2001	1752.75	1830.00	1915.50	3808	4161	37.5	A	E
0135	ACCOUNTANT II 07/08/2001 1627.50	1699.50	1778.25	1863.00	1947.00	3536	4230	37.5	A	E
0130	ACCOUNTANT-AUDITOR 07/08/2001	1611.00	1682.25	1752.75	3500	3808	37.5	A	C
8215	AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST 07/08/2001 1498.50	1571.25	1638.00	1716.00	1797.00	3255	3904	37.5	A	E
8205 2610	AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST TRAINEE 07/08/2001 APPRAISER 1 07/08/2001	1494.75	1564.50	1368.00 1632.75	2972 3247	2972 3547	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
2610 N 2615	APPRAISER 1 07/08/2001 APPRAISER II 07/08/2001 1670.25	1743.00	1826.25	1906.50	20.33 1999.50	3629	4344	37.5 37.5	A A	c E
2615 N 2620	APPRAISER II 07/08/2001 APPRAISER III 07/08/2001	1893.75	1980.75	2079.00	2171.25	24.75 2282.25	4114	4958	37.5 37.5	A A	E E
2605	APPRAISER INTERN 07/08/2001	865.50	899.25	930.00	1880	2020	37.5	A	C
2203	ARCHITECTURAL PROJ COORD 1 07/08/2001 1620.75	1700.25	1776.75	1856.25	1939.50	3521	4214	37.5	A	C
2205	ARCHITECTURAL PROJ COORD II 07/08/2001 1816.50	1902.00	1991.25	2079.00	2173.50	3946	4722	37.5	A	E
8509	ASSISTANT PUBLIC GUARDN-CONSRVTR 07/08/2001	1912.50	2004.75	2097.00	2195.25	4155	4769	37.5	A	E
2510	ASSISTANT RIGHT OF WAY AGENT 07/08/2001	1524.00	1603.20	1674.40	1752.00	1832.00	3311	3980	40.0	A	E
2515	ASSOCIATE RIGHT OF WAY AGENT 07/08/2001 2236.80	2343.20	2455.20	2570.40	2696.00	4859	5857	40.0	A	E
0142	AUDITOR 1 07/08/2001	1552.50	1623.00	1696.50	1773.00	1857.75	3373	4036	37.5	A	E
0145	AUDITOR II 07/08/2001	1706.25	1785.00	1872.00	1955.25	2046.00	3707	4445	37.5	A	E
2705	AUDITOR-APPRAISER 1 07/08/2001	1494.75	1564.50	1632.75	3247	3547	37.5	A	C
2705 N 2710	AUDITOR-APPRAISER 1 07/08/2001 AUDITOR-APPRAISER II 07/08/2001 1670.25	1743.00	1826.25	1906.50	20.33 1999.50	3629	4344	37.5 37.5	A A	C E
2710 N 2715	AUDITOR-APPRAISER II 07/08/2001 AUDITOR-APPRAISER III 07/08/2001 1893.75	1980.75	2079.00	2171.25	24.75 2282.25	4114	4958	37.5 37.5	A A	E E
0128	AUDITOR-INTERN 07/08/2001	899.25	935.25	966.00	1954	2099	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-95-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	OT* STAT	FLSA STAT
2968	BONDS & FINANCE TECHNICIAN I								
2969	07/08/2001 1354.50	1422.00 BONDS & FINANCE TECHNICIAN II	1492.50	1566.75	1644.00	2943	3572	37.5	A	C
0172	07/08/2001 1503.75	1578.75 BUYER 1	1650.75	1742.25	1824.00	3267	3963	37.5	A	C
0173	07/08/2001 BUYER II	1395.00	1455.75	1522.50	3031	3308	37.5	A	C
5553	07/08/2001 1667.25	1739.25 CHEMIST	1822.50	1908.75	1995.00	3622	4334	37.5	A	E
2970	07/08/2001 2020.80	2106.40	2206.40 2312.00 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN SPECIALIST 1			2416.00	4390	5249	40.0	A	E
2971	07/08/2001 1354.50	1422.00	1492.50	1566.00 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN SPECIALIST II			1644.00	2943	3572	37.5	A	C
8523	07/08/2001 1503.75	1578.75 CRIMINALIST 1	1650.75	1742.25	1824.00	3267	3963	37.5	A	C
8524	07/08/2001 1887.00	1974.75 CRIMINALIST II	2068.50	2169.75	2273.25	4100	4939	37.5	A	c
8525	07/08/2001 2072.25	2169.75 CRIMINALIST III	2273.25	2382.75	2487.75	4502	5405	37.5	A	E
2964	07/08/2001 2273.25	2382.75 HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC 1	2487.75	2610.00	2739.75	4939	5952	37.5	A	E
2965	07/08/2001 1687.50	1767.00 HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC II	1842.00	1930.50	2019.75	3666	4388	37.5	A	C
2966	07/08/2001 1930.50	2019.75 HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC III	2112.75	2209.50	2307.75	4194	5014	37.5	A	c
2961	07/08/2001 2209.50	2307.75	2419.50 HOUSING & COMM DEV TECHNICIAN		2530.50	2660.25	4800	5779	37.5	A	C
2955	07/08/2001 1436.25	1503.00 HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST 1	1565.25	1639.50	1712.25	3120	3720	37.5	A	c
2956	07/08/2001 1687.50	1767.00 HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST II	1842.00	1930.50	2019.75	3666	4388	37.5	A	c
2957	07/08/2001 1930.50	2019.75 HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST III	2112.75	2209.50	2307.75	4194	5014	37.5	A	c
8202	07/08/2001 2209.50	2307.75 INSECT TRAPPER	2419.50	2530.50	2660.25	4800	5779	37.5	A	c
8202 N	07/08/2001 1094.25	1149.00 INSECT TRAPPER	1206.75	1266.75	1329.75	2377	2889	37.5	A	C
5550	07/08/2001	14.59	15.32 LABORATORY TECHNICIAN	16.09	16.89	17.73			37.5	A	c
2962	07/08/2001 1479.00	1545.00 LEAD INSPECTION TECHNICIAN	1617.75	1692.00	1774.50	3213	3855	37.5	A	c
2963	07/08/2001 1249.50	1299.75 LEAD RISK ASSESSOR	1359.00	1419.00	1481.25	2715	3218	37.5	A	c
4130	07/08/2001	1543.50	1616.25 LIBRARIAN I	1684.50	1764.75	1846.50	3353	4012	37.5	A	c
4130 N	07/08/2001	1527.00 LIBRARIAN 1	1595.25	1671.00	1749.00	3317	3800	37.5	A	E
	07/08/2001			21.27			37.5	A	E
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-96-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	OT* STAT	FLSA STAT	
4140	LIBRARIAN II										
4140 N	07/08/2001 LIBRARIAN II	1699.50	1781.25	1866.75	1956.75	3692	4251	37.5	A	E	
4175	07/08/2001 LIBRARIAN III				23.75			37.5	A	E	
4115	07/08/2001 1741.50 LIBRARY ASSISTANT I	1824.75	1909.50	1997.25	2097.00	3783	4556	37.5	A	E	
4120	07/08/2001	1326.75 LIBRARY ASSISTANT II	1386.00	1454.25	1518.00	1577.25	2882	3427	37.5	A	C	
4120 N	07/08/2001 1438.50 LIBRARY ASSISTANT II	1501.50	1558.50	1635.75	1707.00	3125	3708	37.5	A	C	
1417	07/08/2001 LITERACY ADVOCATE				20.76			37.5	A	C	
8204	07/08/2001 1365.75	1427.25 PEST DETECTION SPECIALIST		1486.50	1557.00	1626.75	2967	3534	37.5	A	C	
8204 N	07/08/2001	1360.50	1431.00 PEST DETECTION SPECIALIST		1500.00	1576.50	1656.75	2956	3599	37.5	A	C	
2925	07/08/2001 PLANNER 1				20.00			37.5	A	C	
2930	07/08/2001	1687.50 PLANNER II	1767.00	1842.00	1930.50	2019.75	3666	4388	37.5	A	E	
2935	07/08/2001	1930.50 PLANNER III	2019.75	2112.75	2209.50	2307.75	4194	5014	37.5	A	E	
2921	07/08/2001 2209.50 PLANNING TECHNICIAN	2307.75 1	2419.50	2530.50	2660.25	4800	5779	37.5	A	E	
2922	07/08/2001	1273.50 PLANNING TECHNICIAN	1336.50 II	1376.25	1446.75	1518.75	2767	3299	37.5	A	C	
1825	07/08/2001 1374.00	1443.00 PROGRAMMER ANALYST		1515.00	1591.50	1670.25	2985	3629	37.5	A	C	
1821	07/08/2001 2367.20 PROGRAMMER 1	2478.40	2590.40	2716.80	2845.60	5143	6182	40.0	A	E	
1823	07/08/2001	1751.20 PROGRAMMER II	1833.60	1908.00	2000.80	2097.60	3804	4557	40.0	A	C	
1819	07/08/2001 2029.60	2128.00 PROGRAMMING TECHNICIAN 1		2227.20	2335.20	2442.40	4409	5306	40.0	A	C	
1820	07/08/2001 PROGRAMMING TECHNICIAN II		1453.60	1525.60	1602.40	3158	3481	40.0	A	c	
0171	07/08/2001 PURCHASING TECHNICIAN		1564.80	1640.00	1711.20	3400	3718	40.0	A	C	
2980	07/08/2001 1372.50	1437.00 REDEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST I		1499.25	1571.25	1635.75	2982	3554	37.5	A	C	
2981	07/08/2001	1687.50	1767.00 REDEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST II		1842.00	1930.50	2019.75	3666	4388	37.5	A	C	
8225	07/08/2001	1930.50	2019.75	2112.75 SENIOR AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST			2209.50	2307.75	4194	5014	37.5	A	c	
8685	07/08/2001	1624.50	1700.25 SENIOR ZONING INVESTIGATOR		1785.00	1872.00	1959.75	3529	4258	37.5	A	E	
	07/08/2001 2039.20	2128.80	2233.60	2337.60	2456.00	4430	5336	40.0	A	E	
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-97-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	or HRS STAT	FLSA STAT
1842	SOFTWARE ANALYST 07/08/2001 2255.20	2357.60	2469.60	2589.60	2712.00	4899	5892	40.0 A	C
1840	SOFTWARE ANALYST 1 07/08/2001 1924.00	2020.80	2122.40	2228.00	2339.20	4180	5082	40.0 A	C
1839	SOFTWARE ANALYST TRAINEE 07/08/2001 1756.00	1843.20		1936.80	2031.20	2134.40	3815	4637	40.0 A	C
8680	ZONING INVESTIGATOR 07/08/2001 1781.60	1862.40	1948.80	2039.20	2128.80	3871	4625	40.0 A	c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-98-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEPS	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
8163	ANIMAL CONTROL AIDE 07/08/2001 1072.50	1127.25	1182.75	1242.00	1304.25	2330	2833	37.5	A	C
8163 N 2602	ANIMAL CONTROL AIDE 07/08/2001 ASSESSMENT TECHNICIAN 07/08/2001 1308.75	1368.75	1424.25	1487.25	11.18 1548.00	2843	3363	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
2700	AUDITOR-APPRAISER AIDE 07/08/2001	1150.50	1207.50	1269.75	1332.00	1399.50	2499	3040	37.5	A	C
9408 9200	AUTO PARTS TECHNICIAN 07/08/2001 BOOKMENDER 07/08/2001	1186.50	1241.25	1292.25	1516.80 1356.00	3295 2578	3295 2946	40.0 37.5	A A	C C
9312	BOOKMOBILE DRIVER CLERK 07/08/2001 1326.00	1386.00	1442.25	1512.00	1578.75	2881	3430	37.5	A	C
8305	BUILDING INSP 1 07/08/2001 1863.20	1949.60	2044.00	2137.60	2235.20	4048	4856	40.0	A	C
8310	BUILDING INSP II 07/08/2001 2137.60	2235.20	2346.40	2460.00	2577.60	4644	5600	40.0	A	C
8303	BUILDING INSPECTION TECH 07/08/2001 1444.00	1504.00	1576.80	1647.20	1720.00	3137	3737	40.0	A	C
1420	COLLECTION ENFRCEMNT DEPTY I 07/08/2001 1358.25	1416.00	1475.25	1543.50	1609.50	2951	3497	37.5	A	C
1425	COLLECTION ENFRCEMNT DEPTY II 07/08/2001 1468.50	1539.75	1605.75		1678.50	1748.25	3190	3798	37.5	A	C
1811	COMPUTER OPERATOR 1 07/08/2001 1185.00	1236.75	1293.00	1350.00	1407.75	2574	3058	37.5	A	C
1811 N 1812	COMPUTER OPERATOR 1 07/08/2001 COMPUTER OPERATOR II 07/08/2001	1326.00	1388.25	1445.25	1511.25	17.23 1575.00	2881	3422	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
8350 8501	CONSTRUCTION INSPECTOR 07/08/2001	1056.80 CORONER'S AIDE I 07/08/2001	1113.75	1161.75	1212.75	1266.00	2868.00 1323.00	2296 2420	6231 2874	40.0 37.5	A A	C C
8502	CORONER'S AIDE II 07/08/2001 1212.75	1266.00	1323.00	1384.50	1449.00	2635	3148	37.5	A	C
8503	CORONER'S INVESTIGATOR 1 07/08/2001	1876.00	1975.20	2080.80	4076	4521	40.0	A	C
8504	CORONER'S INVESTIGATOR II 07/08/2001 1960.80	2059.20	2156.00	2260.00	2364.80	4260	5138	40.0	A	c
8520	CRIME LABORATORY TECHNICIAN 07/08/2001	1572.75	1644.75	1725.00	1805.25	1887.75	3417	4101	37.5	A	c
1809	DATA PROCESSING TECH 1 07/08/2001	995.25	1042.50	1098.00	1155.00	1207.50	2162	2623	37.5	A	c
1810	DATA PROCESSING TECH II 07/08/2001	1055.25	1107.00	1162.50	1221.00	1282.50	2293	2786	37.5	A	c
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-99-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1882	EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER I								
1885	07/08/2001 1488.80	1552.00 EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER II	1623.20	1699.20	1781.60	3234	3871	40.0	A	C
1885 N	07/08/2001 1726.40	1801.60 EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER II	1888.00	1981.60	2076.20	3751	4511	40.0	A	C
8720	07/08/2001 EMERGENCY SERVICES COORD 1			25.26			40.0	A	C
8721	07/08/2001 1521.00	1588.50 EMERGENCY SERVICES COORD II	1659.00	.1737.00	1816.50	3304	3946	37.5	A	C
2105	07/08/2001	1689.75	1764.00 ENGINEERING AIDE	1842.75	1932.75	2019.00	3671	4386	37.5	A	E
2122	07/08/2001	1275.20	1324.80 ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH 1	1386.40	1446.40	1510.40	2770	3281	40.0	A	C
2123	07/08/2001 1592.00	1653.60 ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH II	1732.80	1816.00	1894.40	3459	4116	40.0	A	C
2124	07/08/2001 1816.00	1894.40 ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH III	1981.60	2072.00	2164.80	3945	4703	40.0	A	c
2111	07/08/2001 1981.60	2072.00 ENGINEERING STAFF ASST 1	2164.80	2269.60	2368.00	4305	5144	40.0	A	C
2112	07/08/2001 1592.00	1653.60 ENGINEERING STAFF ASST II	1732.80	1816.00	1894.40	3459	4116	40.0	A	c
2113	07/08/2001 1816.00	1894.40 ENGINEERING STAFF ASST III	1981.60	2072.00	2164.80	3945	4703	40.0	A	C
1426	07/08/2001	1981.60	2072.00 FINANCIAL HEARING OFFICER	2164.80	2269.60	2368.00	4305	5144	40.0	A	C
1426 N	07/08/2001	1652.25	1722.00 FINANCIAL HEARING OFFICER	1802.25	1887.00	1968.75	3590	4277	37.5	A	c
1283	07/08/2001 FINGERPRINT TECHNICIAN			24.03			37.5	A	c
0410	07/08/2001	1353.00	1415.25 INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECH I	1481.25	1544.25	1608.75	2939	3495	37.5	A	c
0411	07/08/2001 1237.60	1304.00 INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECH II	1362.40	1432.00	1500.00	2689	3259	40.0	A	c
1792	07/08/2001	1506.40	1580.80	1655.20 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST I		1744.80	1827.20	3273	3970	40.0	A	c
1793	07/08/2001 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST II		1182.75	1242.00	2570	2698	37.5	A	c
1794	07/08/2001 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST III		1304.25	1368.75	2833	2974	37.5	A	c
1795	07/08/2001 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST IV		1437.00	1509.75	3122	3280	37.5	A	C
1475	07/08/2001 INTERVIEWER	1584.75	1663.50	1747.50	3443	3796	37.5	A	C
8740	07/08/2001	1113.00	1160.25 KEEPER	1217.25	1263.75	1319.25	2418	2866	37.5	A	C
8740 N	07/08/2001	1280.00	1342.40 KEEPER	1410.40	1481.60	1556.80	2781	3382	40.0	A	c
	07/08/2001			17.62			40.0	A	c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-100-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEPS	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT	
8522	LATENT FINGERPRINT EXAMINER									
2967	07/08/2001 1566.00	1637.25 LEAD PROJECT DESIGNER	1717.50	1797.00	1881.00	3402	4086	37.5	A	C	- -
9310	07/08/2001 2319.75	2423.25 LIBRARY DRIVER-CLERK	2540.25	2657.25	2793.00	5040	6068	37.5	A	C	
9310 N	07/08/2001 1217.25	1272.00 LIBRARY DRIVER-CLERK	1323.00	1386.00	1441.50	2644	3132	37.5	A	C	
2301	07/08/2001 MAPPING TECHNICIAN I			17.64			37.5	A	C	
2302	07/08/2001 MAPPING TECHNICIAN II	1332.00	1394.25	1455.75	2894	3163	37.5	A	C	
2303	07/08/2001 1394.25	1455.75 MAPPING TECHNICIAN III	1521.75	1591.50	1662.00	3029	3611	37.5	A	C	- -
2181	07/08/2001 1521.75	1591.50 MATERIALS TESTING TECH 1	1662.00	1743.75	1818.00	3306	3950	37.5	A	C	
2182	07/08/2001	1594.40	1660.80 MATERIALS TESTING TECH II	1735.20	1815.20	1896.80	3464	4121	40.0	A	C	
2183	07/08/2001 1815.20	1896.80 MATERIALS TESTING TECH III	1984.00	2076.00	2166.40	3944	4707	40.0	A	C	
1460	07/08/2001 1995.20	2087.20 MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN	2183.20	2280.80	2396.80	4335	5207	40.0	A	C	
1803	07/08/2001 1335.00	1396.50 NETWORK SUPPORT TECHNICIAN I	1451.25	1521.00	1581.75	2900	3436	37.5	A	C	
1804	07/08/2001	1499.20	1573.60	1652.80 NETWORK SUPPORT TECHNICIAN II		1736.80	1823.20	3257	3961	40.0	A	C	
9295	07/08/2001	1736.80	1823.20 PHOTOGRAPHER	1914.40	2009.60	2110.40	3773	4585	40.0	A	C	
8308	07/08/2001	1389.00	1453.50 PLANS CHECKER	1524.75	1592.25	1666.50	3018	3620	37.5	A	C	
2160	07/08/2001 1949.60	2044.00 PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR 1	2137.60	2235.20	2346.40	4236	5098	40.0	A	C	
2161	07/08/2001 1678.40	1748.00 PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR II	1827.20	1909.60	1995.20	3646	4335	40.0	A	C	
2162	07/08/2001	1995.20	2087.20 PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR III	2183.20	2280.80	2396.80	4335	5207	40.0	A	C	
2604	07/08/2001 2183.20	2280.80 REAL PROPERTY APPRAISER AIDE	2396.80	2499.20	2623.20	4743	5699	40.0	A	c	
6831	07/08/2001	1229.25	1290.00 RECREATION ASSISTANT	1356.00	1423.50	1494.75	2671	3247	37.5	A	c	
9411	07/08/2001 1316.00	1380.00	1451.20 SENIOR HEAVY EQUIP. PARTS TECH		1524.80	1590.40	2859	3455	40.0	A	c	
8415	07/08/2001 SENIOR WEIGHTS & MEASURES INSP			1697.60	3688	3688	40.0	A	c	
8755	07/08/2001	1584.00	1651.50 SHERIFF’S TECHNICIAN	1721.25	1797.00	1882.50	3441	4090	37.5	A	C	
0403	07/08/2001 1396.00	1460.00 STATISTICAL TECHNICIAN	1524.00	1592^)0	1664.80	3033	3617	40.0	A	c	
	07/08/2001	1121.25	1164.75	1215.75	1274.25	1329.75	2436	2889	37.5	A	C	
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-101-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1715	STOREKEEPER I									
1705	07/08/2001 1252.50 SUPPLY CLERK 1	1314.00	1369.50	1437.00	1500.00	2721	3259	37.5	A	C
1705 N	07/08/2001 1122.00 SUPPLY CLERK 1	1170.00	1227.00	1275.75	1336.50	2438	2904	37.5	A	C
1710	07/08/2001 SUPPLY CLERK II				16.34			37.5	A	C
1710 N	07/08/2001 1143.75 SUPPLY CLERK II	1191.00	1247.25	1308.00	1367.25	2485	2970	37.5	A	C
1798	07/08/2001 TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST I				16.83			37.5	A	C
1799	07/08/2001 TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST II			1584.75	1663.50	3443	3614	37.5	A	C
9270	07/08/2001 TELECOM EQUIPMENT INSTALLER		1747.50	1830.75	1922.25	3796	4176	37.5	A	C
9280	07/08/2001 1493.60 TELECOM TECHNICIAN	1551.20	1624.80	1697.60	1766.40	3245	3838	40.0	A	C
9279	07/08/2001 1869.60	1955.20 TELECOM TECHNICIAN TRAINEE		2047.20	2139.20	2246.40	4062	4880	40.0	A	C
8410	07/08/2001	1493.60 WEIGHTS & MEASURES	1551.20	1624.80 INSPECTOR		1697.60	1766.40	3245	3838	40.0	A	C
8405	07/08/2001	1502.25	1579.50 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ASSISTANT			1647.00	1716.00	3264	3728	37.5	A	C
	07/08/2001				1441.50	3132	3132	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-102-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT SALARIES EFFECTIVE JULY 2, 2002 Representation Unit III - SEIU Local 616
	ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	STEP 6	STEP 7	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
	5300	CLINICAL NURSE I										
	5305	07/07/2002 CLINICAL NURSE II					2370.40	5150	5150	40.0	B	E
	5315	07/07/2002 2489.60	2556.80 CLINICAL NURSE III	2629.60	2744.80	2865.60	2921.60	2980.80	5409	6476	40.0	B	E
	5301 N	07/07/2002 2622.40	2692.80 CLINICAL NURSE PER DIEM	2768.00	2880.00	3006.40	3072.00	3133.60	5697	6808	40.0	B	E
	5337	07/07/2002	312.22	321.99 CLINICAL NURSE SPECIALIST	329.62	343.94	358.83	366.09	372.98			40.0	C	E
-	5344	07/07/2002 2906.40	2984.00	3068.80 INFECTION CONTROL PRACTITIONER		3277.60	3475.20	3639.20	3786.40	6314	8226	40.0	C	E
	5383	07/07/2002 2489.60	2556.80 MID-LEVEL PRACTITIONER	2629.60	2744.80	2865.60	2921.60	2980.80	5409	6476	40.0	C	E
	5383 N	07/07/2002 2687.20	2758.40 MID-LEVEL PRACTITIONER	2836.80	3020.00	3218.40	3327.20	3393.60	5838	7373	40.0	A	E
		07/07/2002			40.23	41.59	42.42			40.0	A	E
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-103-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit IV - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEPS	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
7520	ASSISTANT COOK									
7525	07/07/2002 1065.00 COOK	1109.25	1158.00	1213.50	1261.50	2314	2741	37.5	A	C
7525 N	07/07/2002 COOK	1294.50	1354.50	1415.25	1470.75	2812	3195	37.5	A	C
7420 N	07/07/2002 CUSTODIAN				18.04			37.5	A	C
7535	07/07/2002 FIRST COOK				15.41			40.0	A	C
7510	07/07/2002 1395.00	1455.75 FOOD SERVICE WORKER		1515.00	1587.00	1653.75	3031	3593	37.5	A	C
7510 N	07/07/2002	1233.00 FOOD SERVICE WORKER		1294.50	1349.25	1398.00	2679	3037	37.5	A	C
7205	07/07/2002 GARDENER I				17.25			37.5	A	C
7210	07/07/2002 1341.60 GARDENER II	1394.40	1461.60	1526.40	1595.20	2915	3466	40.0	A	C
7410	07/07/2002 1536.00 JANITOR	1610.40	1672.80	1756.00	1834.40	3337	3985	40.0	A	C
7410 N	07/07/2002 1130.25 JANITOR	1181.25	1228.50	1290.00	1344.75	2455	2921	37.5	A	C
7710	07/07/2002 LAUNDRY SERVICE WORKER				16.38			37.5	A	c
7710 N	07/07/2002 1105.50	1158.00 LAUNDRY SERVICE WORKER		1211.25	1259.25	1310.25	2402	2847	37.5	A	c
7750	07/07/2002 LAUNDRY SUPRV, SANTA RITA JAIL				16.14			37.5	A	c
7415	07/07/2002 1392.00 LEAD JANITOR	1465.50	1528.50	1602.75	1676.25	3024	3642	37.5	A	c
7401	07/07/2002 1234.50 PUBLIC WORKS AIDE I	1287.00	1350.00	1407.00	1470.75	2682	3195	37.5	A	c
7402	07/07/2002 PUBLIC WORKS AIDE II			922.50	958.50	2004	2082	37.5	A	c
7512	07/07/2002 1023.75	1068.00 SENIOR FOOD SERVICE WORKER		1109.25	1164.75	1217.25	2224	2644	37.5	A	c
	07/07/2002 1245.00	1296.75	1344.75	1404.75	1464.75	2705	3182	37.5	A	c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-104-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit V - SEIU Local 535
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	OT* STAT	FLSA STAT
6760	ADULT PROTECTIVE SVS WORKER I								
6765	07/07/2002 1758.75	1836.00	1924.50 ADULT PROTECTIVE SVS WORKER II		2008.50	2105.25	3821	4574	37.5	A	E
6787	07/07/2002	2008.50 CAREER DEVELOPMENT SPEC 1	2105.25	2202.00	2304.75	4363	5007	37.5	A	E
6740	07/07/2002 1796.25	1879.50 CHILD WELFARE WORKER I	1969.50	2064.00	2159.25	3902	4691	37.5	A	E
6745	07/07/2002 1969.50	2056.50 CHILD WELFARE WORKER II	2155.50	2250.00	2358.75	4279	5124	37.5	A	E
6784	07/07/2002	2250.00 EMPLOYMENT COUNSELOR	2358.75	2466.75	2582.25	4888	5610	37.5	A	E
6783	07/07/2002 1554.00	1620.75	1689.75 EMPLOYMENT COUNSELOR TRAINEE		1767.00	1855.50	3376	4031	37.5	A	E
6737	07/07/2002 1302.75	1360.50	1419.00 FAMILY SERVICES SUPPORT WORKER		1484.25	1554.00	2830	3376	37.5	A	C
6786	07/07/2002 1554.75	1623.75 JOB DEVELOPER	1694.25	1770.75	1854.75	3378	4029	37.5	A	C
6496	07/07/2002 1677.75	1750.50 MARRIAGE/FAM CHILD COUNS 1	1825.50	1911.00	2008.50	3645	4363	37.5	A	E
6497	07/07/2002	2073.75 MARRIAGE/FAM CHILD COUNS II	2161.50	2262.00	2379.00	4505	5168	37.5	A	C
6405	07/07/2002	2262.00 MEDICAL SOCIAL WORKER 1	2379.00	2491.50	2605.50	4914	5660	37.5	A	C
6415	07/07/2002 MEDICAL SOCIAL WORKER II	1916.25	2012.25	2097.75	4163	4557	37.5	A	C
6505	07/07/2002 PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER 1	2097.75	2195.25	2298.00	4557	4992	37.5	A	E
6510	07/07/2002	2073.75 PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER II	2161.50	2262.00	2379.00	4505	5168	37.5	A	C
5775	07/07/2002	2262.00 PUBLIC HEALTH SOCIAL WORKER	2379.00	2490.75	2605.50	4914	5660	37.5	A	E
6638	07/07/2002 REHABILITATION COUNSELOR 1	2038.50	2136.00	2232.00	4429	4849	37.5	A	E
6640	07/07/2002 1986.00	2073.75 REHABILITATION COUNSELOR II	2161.50	2262.00	2379.00	4315	5168	37.5	A	C
6792	07/07/2002 2161.50	2262.00 SOCIAL WELFARE SPECIALIST	2379.00	2490.75	2605.50	4696	5660	37.5	A	E
6710	07/07/2002 1952.25	2037.00 SOCIAL WORKER 1	2142.75	2242.50	2348.25	4241	5102	37.5	A	E
6715	07/07/2002 1554.75	1623.75 SOCIAL WORKER II	1694.25	1770.75	1854.75	3378	4029	37.5	A	C
6720	07/07/2002 1693.50	1770.75 SOCIAL WORKER III	1854.00	1935.75	2016.00	3679	4380	37.5	A	E
6705	07/07/2002 1733.25	1807.50 SOCIAL WORKER TRAINEE	1887.00	1971.75	2070.00	3765	4497	37.5	A	E
6781	07/07/2002 VOCATIONAL SVC SPECIALIST 1			1462.50	3177	3177	37.5	A	C
6782	07/07/2002 1328.25	1389.75 VOCATIONAL SVC SPECIALIST II	1449.00	1515.00	1586;25	2886	3446	37.5	A	C
	07/07/2002 1586.25	1654.50	1725.75	1804.50	1892.25	3446	4111	37.5	A	E
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-105-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VI - SEIU Local 535
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	SIEP5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT	
1470	ELIGIBILITY TECH I										
1471	07/07/2002 1312.50 ELIGIBILITY TECH II	1365.75	1430.25	1488.75	1554.75	2851	3378	37.5	A	C	.	
1472	07/07/2002 1430.25 ELIGIBILITY TECH III	1488.75	1554.75	1623.75	1695.75	3107	3684	37.5	A	C	
1468	07/07/2002 1526.25	1595.25 ELIGIBILITY TECHNICIAN TRAINEE		1664.25	1744.50	1824.00	3316	3963	37.5	A	C	
6929	07/07/2002 INFORMATION & REFERRAL WORKER				1158.75	2517	2517	37.5	A	C	
6732	07/07/2002 1269.75 LICENSING EVALUATOR	1324.50	1384.50	1443.00	1508.25	2759	3277	37.5	A	C	
1496	07/07/2002 1665.00	1742.25 PATIENT SERVICES TECH I		1823.25	1903.50	1982.25	3617	4306	37.5	A	C	- -
1497	07/07/2002 1312.50	1365.75 PATIENT SERVICES TECH II		1430.25	1488.75	1554.75	2851	3378	37.5	A	C	
1495	07/07/2002 1430.25	1488.75 PATIENT SERVICES TECH III		1554.75	1623.75	1695.75	3107	3684	37.5	A	C	
1476	07/07/2002 1526.25	1595.25	1664.25 VETERANS SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE			1744.50	1824.00	3316	3963	37.5	A	C	
6702	07/07/2002 1430.25	1488.75 WELFARE SERVICES AIDE		1554.75	1623.75	1695.75	3107	3684	37.5	A	C	
	07/07/2002 1339.50	1396.50	1449.00	1515.00	1581.75	2910	3436	37.5	A	C	
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-106-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	OT* STAT	FLSA STAT
5887	ACUPUNCTURIST							
5850	07/07/2002 1806.40	1895.20	1988.80 CEREBRAL PALSY THERAPST (OCC)	2088.00	2195.20	3924	4769	40.0	A	C
5860	07/07/2002 2187.75	2293.50	2400.00 CEREBRAL PALSY THERAPST (PHYS)	2516.25	2643.75	4753	5744	37.5	A	E
5644	07/07/2002 2187.75	2293.50	2400.00 CLINICAL PHARMACIST SPECIALIST	2516.25	2643.75	4753	5744	37.5	A	E
6316	07/07/2002 2800.00	2940.00	3087.20 CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST	3241.60	3404.00	6083	7395	40.0	C	E
6316 N	07/07/2002	2626.50 CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST	2757.00	2881.50	5706	6260	37.5	A	E
6305 N	07/07/2002 CLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST TRAINEE		33.35			37.5	A	E
5779	07/07/2002 DENTAL HYGIENIST		18.07			37.5	A	C
5660	07/07/2002 1662.75	1742.25	1821.00 ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPEC TRAINE	1914.75	2001.00	3612	4347	37.5	A	E
5665	07/07/2002	1726.40	1804.00 ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPECIALIST	1888.80	1972.00	3751	4284	40.0	A	C
5650	07/07/2002 2316.00	2423.20	2536.80 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SPECIALIST	2644.00	2774.40	5032	6027	40.0	A	E
5649	07/07/2002 2316.00	2423.20	2536.80 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TECHNICIAN	2644.00	2774.40	5032	6027	40.0	A	E
5780	07/07/2002 1972.00	2064.80	2163.20 HEALTH EDUCATOR I	2256.00	2365.60	4284	5139	40.0	A	C
5781	07/07/2002	1628.25	1694.25 HEALTH EDUCATOR II	1773.00	1852.50	3537	4025	37.5	A	E
2080	07/07/2002	2032.50 INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE ENGINEER	2135.25	2234.25	4416	4854	37.5	A	E
5605	07/07/2002	2626.40	2752.80 MICROBIOLOGIST	2880.00	3019.20	5706	6559	40.0	A	E
5605 N	07/07/2002 1911.75	1990.50	2080.50 MICROBIOLOGIST	2178.00	2270.25	4153	4932	37.5	A	E
5795	07/07/2002 NUTRITIONIST		27.72			37.5	A	E
5810	07/07/2002 1927.50	2012.25	2112.00 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST I	2210.25	2314.50	4187	5028	37.5	A	E
5810 N	07/07/2002 2156.25	2255.25	2355.75 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST 1	2472.75	2595.00	4684	5638	37.5	A	E
5815	07/07/2002 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPIST II		31.41			37.5	A	E
5806	07/07/2002 2426.25	2547.00	2667.75 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY ASSISTANT	2799.00	2912.25	5271	6327	37.5	A	E
5835	07/07/2002 1289.25	1347.00	1407.00 PHYSICAL THERAPIST 1	1473.75	1533.75	2801	3332	37.5	A	C
	07/07/2002 2156.25	2255.25	2355.75	2472.75	2595.00	4684	5638	37.5	A	E
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-107-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VII - SEIU Local 616
	TITLE				OT*				FLSA
ITEM 5835 N 5840	EFFECT	STEP 1 STEP 2 PHYSICAL THERAPIST I 07/07/2002 PHYSICAL THERAPIST II	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEPS 31.41	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS 37.5	STAT A	STAT E
5689	07/07/2002 2426.25	2547.00 PUBLIC HEALTH ENGINEER	2667.75	2799.00	2912.25	5271	6327	37.5	A	E
5770	07/07/2002 PUBLIC HEALTH INVESTIGATOR	2689.50	2823.75	2961.00	5843	6433	37.5	A	E
5771 5787	07/07/2002 1481.25	1548.75 PUBLIC HEALTH INVESTIGTR TR 07/07/2002 PUBLIC HEALTH PHYSICIST	1618.50	1691.25 963.75	1772.25 1008.00	3218 2094	3850 2190	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
5667	07/07/2002 1998.75	2097.00	2194.50 SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL HLTH SPEC		2295.75	2407.50	4342	5230	37.5	A	E
5655	07/07/2002 2624.00	2744.80 SENIOR HAZARDOUS MAT.SPEC.	2871.20	2996.80	3142.40	5701	6827	40.0	A	E
5610	07/07/2002 2624.00	2744.80 SENIOR MICROBIOLOGIST	2871.20	2996.80	3142.40	5701	6827	40.0	A	E
5865	07/07/2002 2028.75	2126.25 SENIOR THERAPIST	2215.50	2322.00	2436.75	4407	5294	37.5	A	E
6495	07/07/2002 2327.25	2443.50 SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELOR	2565.00	2693.25	2829.00	5056	6146	37.5	A	E
6495 N	07/07/2002 1434.00	1498.50 SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELOR 07/07/2002	1560.75	1635.00	1707.75 20.81	3115	3710	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-108-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VIII - SEIU Local 250
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	SJEP4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	OT* STAT	FLSA STAT
6701	COMMUNITY OUTREACH WORKER								
5510	07/07/2002 1434.00	1498.50 DENTAL ASSISTANT	1560.75	1635.00	1707.75	3115	3710	37.5	A	C
7879	07/07/2002 1380.00	1440.00 HEALTH SERVICES TRAINEE	1498.50	1569.75	1635.00	2998	3552	37.5	A	C
7850	07/07/2002	981.75	1024.50 LABORATORY ASSISTANT I	1067.25	1119.00	1158.75	2133	2517	37.5	A	C
7850 N	07/07/2002 1160.25	1209.00 LABORATORY ASSISTANT 1	1263.75	1312.50	1369.50	2521	2975	37.5	A	C
7855	07/07/2002 LABORATORY ASSISTANT II			16.84			37.5	A	C
7856	07/07/2002 1238.25	1295.25 LABORATORY ASSISTANT III	1344.75	1406.25	1465.50	2690	3184	37.5	A	C
5420	07/07/2002 1323.75	1371.00 LICENSED VOCATIONAL NURSE	1435.50	1497.00	1569.00	2876	3409	37.5	A	C
5420 N	07/07/2002 1611.00	1651.50 LICENSED VOCATIONAL NURSE	1689.75	1728.75	1772.25	3500	3850	37.5	A	C
1160	07/07/2002	174.38	177.27 MEDICAL TRANSLATOR 1	179.98	183.39	186.24			37.5	A	C
1161	07/07/2002 MEDICAL TRANSLATOR II	1353.00	1417.50	1467.00	2939	3187	37.5	A	C
1161 N	07/07/2002 1369.50	1439.25 MEDICAL TRANSLATOR II	1521.75	1600.50	1680.75	2975	3651	37.5	A	C
6490	07/07/2002 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST 1			20.23			37.5	A	C
6491	07/07/2002 1257.00	1315.50 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST II	1369.50	1424.25	1491.75	2731	3241	37.5	B	C
6491 N	07/07/2002	1438.50 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST II	1501.50	1572.00	1641.75	3125	3567	37.5	B	C
6492	07/07/2002 MENTAL HEALTH SPECIALIST III			20.01			37.5	B	C
5415	07/07/2002 1576.50	1643.25 NURSING ASSISTANT	1717.50	1797.75	1875.00	3425	4073	37.5	B	C
5415 N	07/07/2002 1240.50	1293.75 NURSING ASSISTANT	1347.00	1401.75	1467.75	2695	3189	37.5	A	C
5798	07/07/2002	134.26	138.98 NUTRITION ASSISTANT 1	145.53	152.17	158.77			37.5	A	c
5799	07/07/2002 1308.00	1373.25 NUTRITION ASSISTANT II	1442.25	1514.25	1590.75	2842	3456	37.5	A	c
5800	07/07/2002 1434.00	1498.50 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY AIDE	1560.75	1635.00	1707.75	3115	3710	37.5	A	c
5825	07/07/2002 1274.25	1320.75 PHYSICAL THERAPY AIDE	1384.50	1443.00	1513.50	2768	3288	37.5	A	c
5823	07/07/2002 1293.00	1339.50 PHYSICAL THERAPY ASSISTANT	1404.75	1465.50	1534.50	2809	3334	37.5	A	c
5743 N	07/07/2002 1289.25	1347.00 PSYCHIATRIC TECHNICIAN	1407.00	1473.75	1533.75	2801	3332	37.5	A	c
	07/07/2002			165.85			37.5	A	c
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-109-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit VIII - SEIU Local 250
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	or HRS STAT	FLSA STAT
5980	PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING ASST I							
5981	07/07/2002 1007.25	1056.00 PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING ASST II	1115.25	1163.25	1223.25	2188	2658	37.5 A	C
5684	07/07/2002 1222.50	1275.00	1328.25 SENIOR VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER		1383.00	1448.25	2656	3146	37.5 A	C
5683	07/07/2002 1726.40	1802.40 VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER	1882.40	1963.20	2060.00	3751	4475	40.0 A	C
5682	07/07/2002 1642.40	1714.40	1793.60 VECTOR CONTROL OFFICER,TRAINEE		1869.60	1960.80	3568	4260	40.0 A	C
	07/07/2002		1517.60	1590.40	3297	3455	40.0 A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-110-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit X - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
	EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2								
1281	ABSENTEE VOTING TECHNICIAN 07/07/2002 1344.00	1407.00	1464.00	1536.75	1602.75	2920	3482	37.5	A	C
1305	ACCOUNT CLERK I 07/07/2002 1202.25	1255.50	1308.00	1359.75	1427.25	2612	3101	37.5	A	C
1305 N 1310	ACCOUNT CLERK I 07/07/2002 ACCOUNT CLERK II 07/07/2002 1288.50	1338.75	1404.75	1461.00	15.89 1524.75	2799	3313	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
1310 N 1314	ACCOUNT CLERK II 07/07/2002 ACCOUNTING SPECIALIST 07/07/2002 1424.00	1498.40	1564.80	1650.40	18.73 1729.60	3094	3758	37.5 40.0	A A	C C
1142	ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT 07/07/2002 1643.20	1725.60	1803.20	1903.20	1993.60	3570	4331	40.0	A	C
1491	BILLING TECHNICIAN I 07/07/2002 1238.25	1296.75	1344.00	1406.25	1469.25	2690	3192	37.5	A	C
1492	BILLING TECHNICIAN II 07/07/2002 1315.50	1373.25	1433.25	1494.75	1560.75	2858	3391	37.5	A	C
1493	BILLING TECHNICIAN III 07/07/2002 1420.50	1485.00	1553.25	1620.75	1683.75	3086	3658	37.5	A	C
1480	BUYER’S ASSISTANT 07/07/2002 1311.00	1372.50	1427.25	1497.00	1559.25	2848	3387	37.5	A	C
1115	CLERK 1 07/07/2002	1136.25	1181.25	1238.25	1290.00	2469	2803	37.5	A	C
1115 N 1120	CLERK I 07/07/2002 CLERK II 07/07/2002	1290.00	1338.00	1399.50	15.75 1453.50	2803	3158	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
1120 N 1296 N 1297 N 1521	CLERK II 07/07/2002	. CLERK INTERMITTENT I 07/07/2002 CLERK INTERMITTENT II 07/07/2002 1101.75	1153.50 CLERK-RECORDER’S SPECIALIST I 07/07/2002	1290.00	1200.00 1338.00	1249.50 1399.50	17.71 16.00 1299.75 1453.50	2803	3158	37.5 37.5 37.5 37.5	A A A A	C C C c
1522	CLERK-RECORDER'S SPECIALIST II 07/07/2002 1341.75	1402.50	1458.75		1527.75	1589.25	2915	3453	37.5	A	c
1523	CLERK-RECORDER'S SPECIALIST III 07/07/2002 1530.75	1599.00	1662.75		1742.25	1812.00	3326	3937	37.5	A	c
1130	DATA CONTROL TYPIST 07/07/2002 1230.00	1290.00	1338.00	1399.50	1453.50	2672	3158	37.5	A	c
1805	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR 07/07/2002 1230.00	1290.00	1338.00	1399.50	1453.50	2672	3158	37.5	A	c
1131	DATA INPUT CLERK 07/07/2002 1230.00	1290.00	1338.00	1399.50	1453.50	2672	3158	37.5	A	C
1282	ELECTIONS TECHNICIAN 07/07/2002 1478.25	1548.75	1609.50	1689.75	1762.50	3211	3829	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-111-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit X - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1132	ELIGIBILITY SUPPORT CLERK									
1121	07/07/2002 1307.25	1367.25 HUMAN RESOURCES ASSISTANT 1		1417.50	1485.00	1544.25	2840	3355	37.5	A	C
1122	07/07/2002	1335.75 HUMAN RESOURCES ASSISTANT II		1389.00	1455.00	1513.50	2902	3288	37.5	A	C
1124	07/07/2002 LEAD CLERK	1388.25	1461.00	1539.00	1619.25	3016	3518	37.5	A	C
1217	07/07/2002 1298.25	1356.00	1408.50 LEAD MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST			1477.50	1536.75	2820	3339	37.5	A	C
1511	07/07/2002	1534.50 LEGAL PROCESS CLERK I		1602.75	1672.50	1749.00	3334	3800	37.5	A	C
1513	07/07/2002 1238.25	1290.00 LEGAL PROCESS CLERK II		1338.00	1399.50	1453.50	2690	3158	37.5	A	C
1240	07/07/2002 1263.75 LEGAL SECRETARY	1317.00	1379.25	1442.25	1509.00	2745	3278	37.5	A	C
1213	07/07/2002 1368.00	1425.75 LEGAL STENOGRAPHER		1484.25	1555.50	1623.75	2972	3528	37.5	A	C
1103	07/07/2002 LIBRARY CLERK I	1365.00	1425.75	1489.50	1551.75	3097	3371	37.5	A	C
1103 N	07/07/2002 LIBRARY CLERK I	1136.25	1181.25	1238.25	1290.00	2469	2803	37.5	A	C
1104	07/07/2002 LIBRARY CLERK II				15.75			37.5	A	C
1104 N	07/07/2002 LIBRARY CLERK II	1290.00	1338.00	1399.50	1453.50	2803	3158	37.5	A	C
1109	07/07/2002 LIBRARY PAGE				17.71			37.5	A	C
1109 N	07/07/2002 LIBRARY PAGE			14.12	14.79	2304	2413	37.5	A	C
1126	07/07/2002 MEDICAL CLERK				13.42			37.5	A	C
1126 N	07/07/2002 1278.00 MEDICAL CLERK	1335.75	1389.00	1455.00	1513.50	2776	3288	37.5	A	c
1214	07/07/2002 MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST				18.52			37.5	A	c
1214 N	07/07/2002	1401.75 MEDICAL TRANSCRIPTIONIST		1460.25	1524.75	1591.50	3045	3458	37.5	A	c
1105	07/07/2002 MESSENGER				19.47			37.5	A	c
1105 N	07/07/2002 1158.00 MESSENGER	1209.75	1257.00	1316.25	1366.50	2516	2969	37.5	A	c
	07/07/2002				16.76			37.5	A	c
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-112-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit X - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT	
1153	MICROFILM TECHNICIAN									
1152	07/07/2002 1177.50	1224.00 MICROFILM TECHNICIAN TRAINEE	1279.50	1338.00	1391.25	2558	3022	37.5	A	C	
1156	07/07/2002	1065.00 MICROGRAPHIC SPECIALIST	1104.00	1155.00	1200.00	2314	2607	37.5	A	C	
1127	07/07/2002 1230.00	1284.00 PAYROLL RECORDS CLERK	1335.75	1399.50	1453.50	2672	3158	37.5	A	C	
1125	07/07/2002 1278.00	1335.75	1389.00 PAYROLL RECORDS CLERK, AUD-CON		1455.00	1513.50	2776	3288	37.5	A	C	
8521	07/07/2002 1293.00	1350.00	1400.25 PHOTOGRAPHIC LABORATORY TECH.		1467.75	1527.75	2809	3319	37.5	A	C	
1351	07/07/2002 1247.25	1293.75 RETIREMENT SPECIALIST I	1358.25	1413.00	1482.75	2710	3221	37.5	A	C	
1352	07/07/2002 1353.00	1408.50 RETIREMENT SPECIALIST II	1475.25	1538.25	1604.25	2939	3485	37.5	A	C	
1353	07/07/2002 1509.00	1587.75 RETIREMENT SPECIALIST III	1674.00	1760.25	1852.50	3278	4025	37.5	A	C	
1344	07/07/2002 1842.75	1941.00	2043.75 RETIREMENT SUPPORT SPECIALIST		2151.00	2264.25	4003	4919	37.5	A	C	
1218	07/07/2002 1308.00	1373.25 SECRETARY CLK BD MINUTES I	1442.25	1514.25	1590.00	2842	3454	37.5	A	C	
1215	07/07/2002 1453.50	1516.50 SECRETARY 1	1581.75	1653.75	1725.75	3158	3749	37.5	A	C	
1133	07/07/2002 1338.00	1400.25 SERVICE SUPPORT SPECIALIST	1464.00	1527.00	1593.75	2907	3462	37.5	A	C	
1284	07/07/2002 1293.00	1352.25 SHERIFF’S CLERK	1401.75	1469.25	1527.75	2809	3319	37.5	A	C	
1128	07/07/2002 1315.50	1366.50 SPECIALIST CLERK	1431.75	1487.25	1559.25	2858	3387	37.5	A	C	
1128 N	07/07/2002	1335.75 SPECIALIST CLERK	1389.00	1455.00	1513.50	2902	3288	37.5	A	c	
1205	07/07/2002 STENOGRAPHER 1			17.82			37.5	A	C	
1205 N	07/07/2002	1155.00 STENOGRAPHER I	1206.75	1256.25	1308.00	2509	2842	37.5	A	C	
1210	07/07/2002 STENOGRAPHER II			16.08			37.5	A	C	
1210 N	07/07/2002 STENOGRAPHER II	1357.50	1418.25	1477.50	2949	3210	37.5	A	C	-
9288	07/07/2002 TELECOM SERVICES COORDINATOR			18.64			37.5	A	C	
1212	07/07/2002 2062.40	2162.40 TRANSCRIPTIONIST	2260.80	2376.00	2498.40	4481	5428	40.0	A	C	
1212 N	07/07/2002 TRANSCRIPTIONIST	1390.50	1453.50	1514.25	3021	3290	37.5	A	c	
	07/07/2002			19.34			37.5	A	C	
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-113-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	SJEP5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT	
0132	ACCOUNTANT I										
0135	07/07/2002 ACCOUNTANT II		1840.50	1921.50	2011.50	3998	4370	37.5	A	E	- T
0130	07/07/2002 1709.25 ACCOUNTANT-AUDITOR	1784.25	1867.50	1956.00	2044.50	3713	4442	37.5	A	E	
8215	07/07/2002 AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST		1691.25	1766.25	1840.50	3674	3998	37.5	A	C	
8205	07/07/2002 1573.50	1650.00	1719.75 AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST TRAINEE			1801.50	1887.00	3418	4100	37.5	A	E	
2610	07/07/2002 APPRAISER I				1436.25	3120	3120	37.5	A	C	
2610 N	07/07/2002 APPRAISER I		1569.75	1642.50	1714.50	3410	3725	37.5	A	C	* -
2615	07/07/2002 APPRAISER II				21.35			37.5	A	c	
2615 N	07/07/2002 1753.50 APPRAISER II	1830.00	1917.75	2001.75	2099.25	3809	4561	37.5	A	E	
2620	07/07/2002 APPRAISER III				26.25			37.5	A	E	
2605	07/07/2002 1988.25 APPRAISER INTERN	2079.75	2183.25	2280.00	2396.25	4319	5206	37.5	A	E	
2203	07/07/2002 ARCHITECTURAL PROJ COORD 1		909.00	944.25	976.50	1975	2121	37.5	A	C	
2205	07/07/2002 1701.75	1785.00 ARCHITECTURAL PROJ COORD II		1865.25	1949.25	2036.25	3697	4424	37.5	A	C	
8509	07/07/2002 1907.25	1997.25	2091.00 ASSISTANT PUBLIC GUARDN-CONSRVTR			2183.25	2282.25	4144	4958	37.5	A	E	
2510	07/07/2002	2008.50 ASSISTANT RIGHT OF WAY AGENT		2105.25	2202.00	2304.75	4363	5007	37.5	A	E	
2515	07/07/2002 1632.00	1716.80 ASSOCIATE RIGHT OF WAY AGENT		1793.60	1876.80	1962.40	3546	4263	40.0	A	E	
0142	07/07/2002 2396.00 AUDITOR I	2509.60	2628.80	2752.80	2888.00	5205	6274	40.0	A	E	
0145	07/07/2002 1630.50 AUDITOR II	1704.00	1781.25	1861.50	1950.75	3542	4238	37.5	A	E	
2705	07/07/2002 1791.75 AUDITOR-APPRAISER 1	1874.25	1965.75	2052.75	2148.00	3893	4667	37.5	A	E	
2705 N	07/07/2002 AUDITOR-APPRAISER 1		1569.75	1642.50	1714.50	3410	3725	37.5	A	C	
2710	07/07/2002 AUDITOR-APPRAISER II				21.35			37.5	A	C	
2710 N	07/07/2002 1753.50 AUDITOR-APPRAISER II	1830.00	1917.75	2001.75	2099.25	3809	4561	37.5	A	E	
2715	07/07/2002 AUDITOR-APPRAISER III				26.25			37.5	A	E	
0128	07/07/2002 1988.25 AUDITOR-INTERN	2079.75	2183.25	2280.00	2396.25	4319	5206	37.5	A	E	
	07/07/2002		944.25	981.75	1014.00	2051	2203	37.5	A	C	
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-114-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
TITLE		or							FLSA
ITEM	EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	STAT	STAT
2968	BONDS & FINANCE TECHNICIAN I								
2969	07/07/2002 1422.00	1493.25 BONDS & FINANCE TECHNICIAN II	1567.50	1644.75	1726.50	3089	3751	37.5	A	C
0172	07/07/2002 1578.75	1657.50 BUYER 1	1733.25	1829.25	1915.50	3430	4161	37.5	A	C
0173	07/07/2002 BUYER II	1464.75	1528.50	1599.00	3182	3474	37.5	A	C
5553	07/07/2002 1750.50	1826.25 CHEMIST	1914.00	2004.00	2094.75	3803	4551	37.5	A	E
2970	07/07/2002 2121.60	2212.00	2316.80	2428.00 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN SPECIALIST 1			2536.80	4609	5511	40.0	A	E
2971	07/07/2002 1422.00	1493.25	1567.50	1644.00 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN SPECIALIST II			1726.50	3089	3751	37.5	A	C
8523	07/07/2002 1578.75	1657.50 CRIMINALIST 1	1733.25	1829.25	1915.50	3430	4161	37.5	A	C
8524	07/07/2002 1981.50	2073.75 CRIMINALIST II	2172.00	2278.50	2387.25	4305	5186	37.5	A	C
8525	07/07/2002 2175.75	2278.50 CRIMINALIST III	2387.25	2502.00	2612.25	4727	5675	37.5	A	E
2964	07/07/2002 2387.25	2502.00 HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC 1	2612.25	2740.50	2877.00	5186	6250	37.5	A	E
2965	07/07/2002 1772.25	1855.50 HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC II	1934.25	2027.25	2121.00	3850	4608	37.5	A	C
2966	07/07/2002 2027.25	2121.00 HOUSING & COMM DEV SPEC III	2218.50	2319.75	2423.25	4404	5265	37.5	A	C
2961	07/07/2002 2319.75	2423.25	2540.25 HOUSING & COMM DEV TECHNICIAN		2657.25	2793.00	5040	6068	37.5	A	C
2955	07/07/2002 1508.25	1578.00 HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST 1	1643.25	1721.25	1797.75	3277	3906	37.5	A	C
2956	07/07/2002 1772.25	1855.50 HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST II	1934.25	2027.25	2121.00	3850	4608	37.5	A	C
2957	07/07/2002 2027.25	2121.00 HOUSING REHAB SPECIALIST III	2218.50	2319.75	2423.25	4404	5265	37.5	A	C
8202	07/07/2002 2319.75	2423.25 INSECT TRAPPER	2540.25	2657.25	2793.00	5040	6068	37.5	A	C
8202 N	07/07/2002 1149.00	1206.75 INSECT TRAPPER	1266.75	1329.75	1396.50	2496	3034	37.5	A	C
5550	07/07/2002	15.32	16.09 LABORATORY TECHNICIAN	16.89	17.73	18.62			37.5	A	C
2962	07/07/2002 1553.25	1622.25 LEAD INSPECTION TECHNICIAN	1698.75	1776.75	1863.00	3374	4047	37.5	A	C
2963	07/07/2002 1311.75	1365.00 LEAD RISK ASSESSOR	1427.25	1490.25	1555.50	2850	3379	37.5	A	C
4130	07/07/2002 1620.75	1697.25 LIBRARIAN 1	1768.50	1853.25	1938.75	3521	4212	37.5	A	C
4130 N	07/07/2002	1603.50 LIBRARIAN 1	1674.75	1754.25	1836.75	3484	3990	37.5	A	E
	07/07/2002			22.33			37.5	A	E
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-115-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	OT* STAT	FLSA STAT
4140	LIBRARIAN II									
4140 N	07/07/2002 LIBRARIAN II	1784.25	1870.50	1959.75	2054.25	3876	4463	37.5	A	E
4175	07/07/2002 LIBRARIAN III				24.94			37.5	A	E
4115	07/07/2002 1828.50 LIBRARY ASSISTANT 1	1916.25	2004.75	2097.00	2202.00	3972	4784	37.5	A	E
4120	07/07/2002 1427.25 LIBRARY ASSISTANT II	1491.75	1565.25	1633.50	1697.25	3101	3687	37.5	A	C
4120 N	07/07/2002 1548.00 LIBRARY ASSISTANT II	1616.25	1677.75	1760.25	1837.50	3363	3992	37.5	A	C
1417	07/07/2002 LITERACY ADVOCATE				22.35			37.5	A	C
8204	07/08/2001	1434.00	1498.50 PEST DETECTION SPECIALIST		1560.75	1635.00	1707.75	3115	3710	37.5	A	C
8204 N	07/07/2002 1428.75	1502.25 PEST DETECTION SPECIALIST		1575.00	1655.25	1739.25	3104	3779	37.5	A	C
2925	07/07/2002 PLANNER 1				21.00			37.5	A	C
2930	07/07/2002 1772.25 PLANNER II	1855.50	1934.25	2027.25	2121.00	3850	4608	37.5	A	E
2935	07/07/2002 2027.25 PLANNER III	2121.00	2218.50	2319.75	2423.25	4404	5265	37.5	A	E
2921	07/07/2002 2319.75 PLANNING TECHNICIAN	2423.25 I	2540.25	2657.25	2793.00	5040	6068	37.5	A	E
2922	07/07/2002 1337.25 PLANNING TECHNICIAN	1403.25 II	1445.25	1518.75	1594.50	2905	3464	37.5	A	C
1825	07/07/2002 1443.00	1515.00 PROGRAMMER ANALYST		1590.75	1671.00	1753.50	3135	3809	37.5	A	C
1821	07/07/2002 2485.60 PROGRAMMER 1	2602.40	2720.00	2852.80	2988.00	5400	6491	40.0	A	E
1823	07/07/2002 1838.40 PROGRAMMER II	1925.60	2003.20	2100.80	2202.40	3994	4785	40.0	A	C
1819	07/07/2002 2131.20	2234.40 PROGRAMMING TECHNICIAN 1		2338.40	2452.00	2564.80	4630	5572	40.0	A	C
1820	07/07/2002 PROGRAMMING TECHNICIAN II		1526.40	1601.60	1682.40	3316	3655	40.0	A	c
0171	07/07/2002 PURCHASING TECHNICIAN		1643.20	1722.40	1796.80	3570	3904	40.0	A	c
2980	07/07/2002 1441.50	1509.00 REDEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST 1		1574.25	1650.00	1717.50	3132	3731	37.5	A	c
2981	07/07/2002 1772.25	1855.50 REDEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST II		1934.25	2027.25	2121.00	3850	4608	37.5	A	c
8225	07/07/2002 2027.25	2121.00	2218.50 SENIOR AGRICULTURAL BIOLOGIST			2319.75	2423.25	4404	5265	37.5	A	c
8685	07/07/2002 1705.50	1785.00 SENIOR ZONING INVESTIGATOR		1874.25	1965.75	2058.00	3705	4471	37.5	A	E
	07/07/2002 2140.80	2235.20	2345.60	2454.40	2579.20	4651	5603	40.0	A	E
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-116-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XI - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	SJEP3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1842	SOFTWARE ANALYST 07/07/2002 2368.00	2475.20	2592.80	2719.20	2848.00	5144	6187	40.0	A	C
1840	SOFTWARE ANALYST I 07/07/2002 2020.00	2121.60	2228.80	2339.20	2456.00	4388	5336	40.0	A	C
1839	SOFTWARE ANALYST TRAINEE 07/07/2002 1844.00	1935.20		2033.60	2132.80	2240.80	4006	4868	40.0	A	C
8680	ZONING INVESTIGATOR 07/07/2002 1870.40	1955.20	2046.40	2140.80	2235.20	4063	4856	40.0	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-117-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEPS	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT	
8163	ANIMAL CONTROL AIDE									
8163 N	07/07/2002 1126.50	1183.50 ANIMAL CONTROL AIDE	1242.00	1304.25	1369.50	2447	2975	37.5	A	C	r
2602	07/07/2002 ASSESSMENT TECHNICIAN			11.74			37.5	A	C	
2700	07/07/2002 1374.00	1437.00 AUDITOR-APPRAISER AIDE	1495.50	1561.50	1625.25	2985	3531	37.5	A	C	7
9408	07/07/2002 1208.25	1268.25 AUTO PARTS TECHNICIAN	1333.50	1398.75	1469.25	2625	3192	37.5	A	C	
9200	07/07/2002 BOOKMENDER			1592.80	3460	3460	40.0	A	C	
9312	07/07/2002	1245.75 BOOKMOBILE DRIVER CLERK	1303.50	1356.75	1423.50	2706	3093	37.5	A	C	- -
8305	07/07/2002 1392.00	1455.00 BUILDING INSP 1	1514.25	1587.75	1657.50	3024	3601	37.5	A	C	
8310	07/07/2002 1956.00	2047.20 BUILDING INSP II	2146.40	2244.80	2347.20	4249	5099	40.0	A	C	
8303	07/07/2002 2244.80	2347.20 BUILDING INSPECTION TECH	2464.00	2583.20	2706.40	4877	5880	40.0	A	C	
1420	07/07/2002 1516.00	1579.20 COLLECTION ENFRCEMNT DEPTY I	1656.00 I	1729.60	1806.40	3294	3924	40.0	A	C	
1425	07/07/2002 1426.50	1486.50	1 548.75 COLLECTION ENFRCEMNT DEPTY II		1620.75	1689.75	3099	3671	37.5	A	C	
1811	07/07/2002 1542.00	1617.00 COMPUTER OPERATOR I	1686.00	1762.50	1836.00	3350	3989	37.5	A	C	
1811 N	07/07/2002 1244.25	1298.25 COMPUTER OPERATOR 1	1357.50	1417.50	1478.25	2703	3211	37.5	A	C	
1812	07/07/2002 COMPUTER OPERATOR II			18.09			37.5	A	C	
8350	07/07/2002 1392.00	1458.00 CONSTRUCTION INSPECTOR	1517.25	1587.00	1653.75	3024	3593	37.5	A	C	
8501	07/07/2002 1109.60 CORONER'S AIDE 1			3011.20	2411	6542	40.0	A	C	
8502	07/07/2002 1169.25	1219.50 CORONER'S AIDE II	1273.50	1329.00	1389.00	2540	3018	37.5	A	C	
8503	07/07/2002 1273.50	1329.00 CORONER'S INVESTIGATOR I	1389.00	1453.50	1521.75	2767	3306	37.5	A	C	
8504	07/07/2002 CORONER'S INVESTIGATOR II	1969.60	2073.60	2184.80	4279	4746	40.0	A	c	
8520	07/07/2002 2059.20	2162.40 CRIME LABORATORY TECHNICIAN	2264.00	2372.80	2483.20	4474	5395	40.0	A	c	
1809	07/07/2002 1651.50	1727.25 DATA PROCESSING TECH I	1811.25	1895.25	1982.25	3588	4306	37.5	A	C	
1810	07/07/2002 1044.75	1095.00 DATA PROCESSING TECH II	1152.75	1212.75	1268.25	2270	2755	37.5	A	C	
1882	07/07/2002 1107.75	1162.50 EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER I	1221.00	1281.75	1347.00	2407	2926	37.5	A	c	
	07/07/2002 1563.20	1629.60	1704.00	1784.00	1870.40	3396	4063	40.0	A	C	
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-118-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
	ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT	
	1885	EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER II									
	1885 N	07/07/2002 1812.80	1892.00 EMERGENCY SERV DISPATCHER II	1982.40	2080.80	2180.00	3938	4736	40.0	A	C	
	8720	07/07/2002 EMERGENCY SERVICES COORD 1			26.52			40.0	A	C	
	8721	07/07/2002 1596.75	1668.00 EMERGENCY SERVICES COORD II	1742.25	1824.00	1907.25	3469	4144	37.5	A	C	
	2105	07/07/2002 1774.50	1852.50 ENGINEERING AIDE	1935.00	2029.50	2120.25	3855	4606	37.5	A	E	
	2122	07/07/2002 1339.20	1391.20 ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH 1	1456.00	1518.40	1585.60	2909	3445	40.0	A	C	
- -	2123	07/07/2002 1672.00	1736.00 ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH II	1819.20	1907.20	1988.80	3632	4321	40.0	A	C	
	2124	07/07/2002 1907.20	1988.80 ENGINEERING CAD/D TECH III	2080.80	2176.00	2272.80	4143	4938	40.0	A	C	
	2111	07/07/2002 2080.80	2176.00 ENGINEERING STAFF ASST 1	2272.80	2383.20	2486.40	4521	5402	40.0	A	C	
	2112	07/07/2002 1672.00	1736.00 ENGINEERING STAFF ASST II	1819.20	1907.20	1988.80	3632	4321	40.0	A	C	
	2113	07/07/2002 1907.20	1988.80 ENGINEERING STAFF ASST III	2080.80	2176.00	2272.80	4143	4938	40.0	A	C	
	1426	07/07/2002 2080.80	2176.00 FINANCIAL HEARING OFFICER	2272.80	2383.20	2486.40	4521	5402	40.0	A	C	
	1426 N	07/07/2002 1734.75	1808.25 FINANCIAL HEARING OFFICER	1892.25	1981.50	2067.00	3769	4491	37.5	A	C	
	1283	07/07/2002 FINGERPRINT TECHNICIAN			25.23			37.5	A	C	
	0410	07/07/2002 1420.50	1485.75 INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECH 1	1555.50	1621.50	1689.00	3086	3669	37.5	A	C	-
	0411	07/07/2002 1299.20	1369.60 INFORMATION SYSTEMS TECH II	1430.40	1504.00	1575.20	2823	3422	40.0	A	C		
	1792	07/07/2002 1581.60	1660.00	1737.60 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST 1		1832.00	1918.40	3436	4168	40.0	A	C	
	1793	07/07/2002 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST II		1242.00	1304.25	2698	2833	37.5	A	C	
	1794	07/07/2002 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST III		1369.50	1437.00	2975	3122	37.5	A	c	
	1795	07/07/2002 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST IV		1509.00	1585.50	3278	3444	37.5	A	c	—
	1475	07/07/2002 INTERVIEWER	1664.25	1746.75	1835.25	3616	3987	37.5	A	c	
	8740	07/07/2002 1168.50	1218.00 KEEPER	1278.00	1326.75	1385.25	2539	3009	37.5	A	c	
	8740 N	07/07/2002 1344.00	1409.60 KEEPER	1480.80	1556.00	1634.40	2920	3551	40.0	A	c	
	8522	07/07/2002 LATENT FINGERPRINT EXAMINER			18.50			40.0	A	c	
		07/07/2002 1644.00	1719.00	1803.75	1887.00	1974.75	3572	4290	37.5	A	c	
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-119-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
	EFFECT	STEP1 STEP 2	STEP 3							
2967	LEAD PROJECT DESIGNER 07/07/2002 2436.00	2544.75	2667.00	2790.00	2932.50	5292	6371	37.5	A	C
9310	LIBRARY DRIVER-CLERK 07/07/2002 1278.00	1335.75	1389.00	1455.00	1513.50	2776	3288	37.5	A	C
9310 N 2301	LIBRARY DRIVER-CLERK 07/07/2002 MAPPING TECHNICIAN 1 07/07/2002	1398.75	1464.00	18.52 1528.50	3039	3321	37.5 37.5	A A	C C
2302	MAPPING TECHNICIAN II 07/07/2002 1464.00	1528.50	1597.50	1671.00	1745.25	3181	3792	37.5	A	C
2303	MAPPING TECHNICIAN III 07/07/2002 1597.50	1671.00	1745.25	1830.75	1908.75	3471	4147	37.5	A	C
2181	MATERIALS TESTING TECH 1 07/07/2002 1674.40	1744.00	1821.60	1905.60	1992.00	3638	4328	40.0	A	C
2182	MATERIALS TESTING TECH II 07/07/2002 1905.60	1992.00	2083.20	2180.00	2274.40	4140	4941	40.0	A	C
2183	MATERIALS TESTING TECH III 07/07/2002 2095.20	2191.20	2292.00	2395.20	2516.80	4552	5468	40.0	A	C
1460	MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN 07/07/2002 1401.75	1466.25	1524.00	1596.75	1660.50	3045	3607	37.5	A	C
1803	NETWORK SUPPORT TECHNICIAN 1 07/07/2002 1574.40	1652.00	1735.20	1824.00	1914.40	3420	4159	40.0	A	C
1804	NETWORK SUPPORT TECHNICIAN II 07/07/2002 1824.00	1914.40	2010.40	2110.40	2216.00	3963	4814	40.0	A	C
9295	PHOTOGRAPHER 07/07/2002 1458.75	1526.25	1601.25	1671.75	1749.75	3169	3801	37.5	A	C
8308	PLANS CHECKER 07/07/2002 2047.20	2146.40	2244.80	2347.20	2464.00	4448	5353	40.0	A	C
2160	PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR 1 07/07/2002 1762.40	1835.20	1918.40	2004.80	2095.20	3829	4552	40.0	A	C
2161	PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR II 07/07/2002 2095.20	2191.20	2292.00	2395.20	2516.80	4552	5468	40.0	A	C
2162	PUBLIC WORKS INSPECTOR III 07/07/2002 2292.00	2395.20	2516.80	2624.00	2754.40	4979	5984	40.0	A	C
2604	REAL PROPERTY APPRAISER AIDE 07/07/2002 1290.75	1354.50	1423.50	1494.75	1569.75	2804	3410	37.5	A	C
6831	RECREATION ASSISTANT 07/07/2002 1381.60	1448.80	1524.00	1600.80	1669.60	3002	3627	40.0	A	C
9411 8415	SENIOR HEAVY EQUIP. PARTS TECH 07/07/2002 SENIOR WEIGHTS & MEASURES INSP 07/07/2002 1663.50	1734.00	1807.50	1887.00	1782.40 1977.00	3872 3614	3872 4295	40.0 37.5	A A	C C
8755	SHERIFF’S TECHNICIAN 07/07/2002 1465.60	1532.80	1600.00	1672.00	1748.00	3184	3798	40.0	A	C
0403	STATISTICAL TECHNICIAN 07/07/2002 1177.50	1223.25	1276.50	1338.00	1396.50	2558	3034	37.5	A	C
1715	STOREKEEPER I 07/07/2002 1315.50	1380.00	1437.75	1509.00	1575.00	2858	3422	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-120-
APPENDIX A - LISTING OF CLASSIFICATION BY REPRESENTATION UNIT
Representation Unit XII - SEIU Local 616
ITEM	TITLE EFFECT	STEP1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	MO-LO	MO-HI	HRS	or STAT	FLSA STAT
1705	SUPPLY CLERK I									
1705 N	07/07/2002 1178.25 SUPPLY CLERK I	1228.50	1288.50	1339.50	1403.25	2560	3049	37.5	A	C
1710	07/07/2002 SUPPLY CLERK II				17.16			37.5	A	C
1710 N	07/07/2002 1200.75 SUPPLY CLERK II	1250.25	1309.50	1373.25	1435.50	2609	3119	37.5	A	C
1798	07/07/2002 TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST 1				17.67			37.5	A	C
1799	07/07/2002 TECHNICAL SUPPORT SPECIALIST II			1664.25	1746.75	3616	3795	37.5	A	C
9270	07/07/2002 TELECOM EQUIPMENT INSTALLER		1835.25	1922.25	2018.25	3987	4385	37.5	A	C
9280	07/07/2002 1568.00 TELECOM TECHNICIAN	1628.80	1706.40	1782.40	1854.40	3406	4029	40.0	A	C
9279	07/07/2002 1963.20	2052.80 TELECOM TECHNICIAN TRAINEE		2149.60	2246.40	2358.40	4265	5124	40.0	A	C
8410	07/07/2002 1568.00 WEIGHTS & MEASURES	1628.80	1706.40 INSPECTOR		1782.40	1854.40	3406	4029	40.0	A	C
8405	07/07/2002	1577.25	1658.25 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ASSISTANT			1729.50	1801.50	3427	3914	37.5	A	C
	07/07/2002				1513.50	3288	3288	37.5	A	C
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-121-
APPENDIX B INTERMITTENT AND SERVICES-AS-NEEDED CLASSIFICATIONS
ITEM	TITLE	ITEM	TITLE
1305N	Account Clerk I	4130N	Librarian I
1310N	Account Clerk II	4140N	Librarian II
8163N	Animal Control Aide	4120N	Library Assistant II
2610N	Appraiser I	1103N	Library Clerk I
2615N	Appraiser II	1104N	Library Clerk II
2705N	Auditor-Appraiser I	9310N	Library Driver-Clerk
2710N	Auditor-Appraiser II	5420N	Licensed Vocational Nurse
1150N	Clerk I	1126N	Medical Clerk
1120N	Clerk II	1161N	Medical Translator II
1296N	Clerk Intermittent I	1105N	Messenger
1297N	Clerk Intermittent II	6491N	Mental Health Specialist II
5301N	Clinical Nurse Per Diem	5605N	Microbiologist
6316N	Clinical Psychologist	5383N	Mid-Level Practitioner
6305N	Clinical Psychologist Trainee	5340N	Nurse Anesthetist
1811N	Computer Operator I	5415N	Nursing Assistant (Per Diem)
7525N	Cook	5810N	Occupational Therapist I (Int.)
7420N	Custodian	8204N	Pest Detection Specialist
1885N	Emergency Services Dispatcher II	5835N	Physical Therapist I (Int.)
1426N	Financial Hearing Officer (Int.)	5743N	Psychiatric Technician
7510N	Food Service Worker	1128N	Specialist Clerk
8202N	Insect Trapper	1205N	Stenographer I
741 ON	Janitor	1210N	Stenographer II
8740N	Keeper	6495N	Substance Abuse Counselor
7850N	Laboratory Assistant I	1705N	Supply Clerk I
771 ON	Laundry Service Worker (SAN)	1710N	Supply Clerk II
1245N	Legal Secretary-Reporter II	1212N	Transcriptionist
(SAN)
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25,2000 - July 5,2003
-122-
APPENDIX C AGENCY SHOP CONFIDENTIAL EXCLUSIONS
1.	Any and all future clerical positions assigned to the Board of Supervisors.
2.	All present and future clerical positions assigned to the Clerk, Board of Supervisors.
3.	All	present and future	clerical	positions	assigned to the County Administrator.
4.	All	present and future	clerical	positions	assigned to County Counsel.
5.	All	present and future	clerical	positions	assigned to the County Human Resource
Services Department.
6.	All present and future clerical positions assigned to the Personnel/Payroll Sections of the Probation Department.
7.	All present and future clerical positions assigned to the Personnel/Payroll Sections of the Social Services Agency.
8.	All present and future clerical positions assigned to the Personnel Sections of the Health Care Services Agency.
9.	The Secretary I position assigned in HCSA, Eden Administration, Budget 440.
10.	The Secretary I position assigned in HCSA, East Oakland Administration, Budget
440.
11.	Two Secretary I positions assigned in the Social Services Agency:
a)	Administrative Services/OMO, Budget 352.
b)	Economic Benefits, Budget 350.
12.	The Secretary I position assigned in the General Services Agency, Budget 117.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-123-
APPENDIX D PART-TIME AND SERVICES-AS-NEEDED REGISTERED NURSES
Employees in the following classifications who are regularly scheduled to work two-fifths time or more but less than full-time in a workweek.
ITEM	TITLE
5300	Clinical Nurse I
5305	Clinical Nurse II
5315	Clinical Nurse III
5337	Clinical Nurse Specialist
5383	Mid-Level Practitioner
5383N	Mid-Level Practitioner
5301N	Clinical Nurse Per Diem
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-124-
APPENDIX E DOMESTIC PARTNER DEFINED
A "domestic partnership" shall exist between two persons, one of whom is an employee of the County, covered by this Memorandum of Understanding, regardless of their gender and each of them shall be the "domestic partner" of the other if they both complete, sign, and cause to be filed with the County an "Affidavit of Domestic Partnership" attesting to the following:
a.	the two parties reside together and share the common necessities of life;
b.	the two parties are: not married to anyone; eighteen years or older; not related by blood closer than would bar marriage in the State of California; and mentally competent to consent to contract;
c.	the two parties declare that they are each other's sole domestic partner and they are responsible for their common welfare;
d.	the two parties agree to notify the County if there is a change of circumstances attested to the affidavit;
e.	the two parties affirm, under penalty of perjury, that the assertions in the affidavit are true to the best of their knowledge.
Termination. A member of a domestic partnership may end said relationship by filing a statement with the County. In the statement, the person filing must affirm, under penalty of perjury, that: 1) the partnership is terminated, and 2) a copy of the termination statement has been mailed to the other partner.
New Statements of Domestic Partnership. No person who has filed an affidavit of domestic partnership may file another such affidavit until six months after a statement of termination of the previous partnership has been filed with the County.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-125-
APPENDIX F
FLOOD CONTROL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT ZONE 7
Alameda County Flood Control and Water Conservation District Zone 7 job classes represented by SEIU Local 616 are covered by this Memorandum of Understanding except for Section 16. Wages which are set in a separate Memorandum of Understanding between the Board of Directors of Zone 7 and SEIU Local 616.
Item No.	Classification
4916 4918 4925 4936 4937 4938 4939 4942T 4943T 4944 4949 4950 4954 4955	Office Assistant, Zone 7 Secretary, Zone 7 Account Clerk, Zone 7 Water Resources Engineering Aide, Zone 7 Water Resources Technician I Water Resources Technician II Water Resources Technician III Water Plant Operator I Water Plant Operator II Water Plant Operator III Water Quality Laboratory Technician, Zone 7 Water Quality Chemist, Zone 7 Buyer, Zone 7 Maintenance Materials Planner/Buyer
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-126-
SUBJECT INDEX
Page No.
Access to Records.................................................................. 5
Adoptive Leave.................................................................... 18
Affirmative Action Committee...................................................... 44
Agency/Department Head............................................................ 51
Agency Shop........................................................................ 2
ACERA, Biweekly Work Schedule..................................................... 14
Allowance for Use of Private Automobiles.......................................... 39
Appendix A	 56
Appendix B.........................	 122
Appendix C	123
Appendix D	 124
Appendix E	125
Appendix F.......	126
Assessor’s Office, Biweekly Work Schedule......................................... 13
Bargaining Units, Entry Into/Vacation Leave....................................... 28
Behavioral Health Care Services, Biweekly Work Schedule........................... 14
Bilingual Pay..................................................................... 33
Binding Arbitration of Grievances................................................. 46
Biweekly Work Schedule ACERA........................................................................    14
Assessor’s Office.............................................................. 13
Behavioral Health Care Services................................................ 14
Community Development Agency................................................... 12
Data Processing Department..................................................... 11
Library Department............................................................. 13
Probation Department........................................................... 11
Public Works Agency............................................................ 12
Registrar of Voters Department................................................. 12
Social Services Agency......................................................... 11
Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office............................................... 13
Bulletin Boards.................................................................... 4
Call-Back, Special Performance Pay................................................ 34
Caseloads, Social Services Agency................................................. 49
Catastrophic Sick Leave Program................................................... 52
Central Safety Committee.......................................................... 44
Change of Shift and Work Schedule.................................................. 7
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-127-
Page No.
Clerk-Recorder Staff Holidays....................................................... 23
Community Development Agency, Biweekly Work Schedule................................ 12
Compensating Time Off............................................................... 10
Conversion of Workweek from 37.5 to 40 Hours......................................... 8
Court Staff Holidays...........................................,....................	22
Cumulative Sick Leave Plan.......................................................... 29
Data Processing Department, Biweekly Work Schedule.................................. 11
Data to Union.......................................................................  5
Death in Immediate Family........................................................... 18
Dental Plan Coverage..............................................................   37
Departmental Meetings................................................................ 5
Disability Insurance Benefits....................................................... 47
Disability Leave for Other Employment............................................... 17
Disability Leave, Personal.........................................................  17
Discrimination Prohibited............................................................ 2
Education, Paid Time Off............................................................ 15
Educational Leave................................................................... 15
Educational Stipends................................................................ 50
Enactment........................................................................... 53
Family Sick Leave................................................................    31
Fringe Benefits, Mandated........................................................... 49
Grievance Procedure................................................................. 45
Appeal Levels.................................................................... 47
Binding Arbitration.............................................................. 46
Exclusion of Nonrecognized Organizations......................................... 47
Rights of Former Employees......................................................  47
Stale Grievances, Limitation of.................................................. 47
Union Grievance.................................................................. 46
Waiver of Appeal Steps........................................................... 46
Health and Dental Coverage (Meet/Confer)...........................................  39
Health and Dental Entitlement, SAN and N-Designated Classifications................. 33
Health and Dental Plan Coverage in Conjunction with SDI............................. 48
Health and Dental Plans............................................................. 35
Health Plan Coverage................................................................ 35
Holiday Pay in Conjunction with SDI................................................. 48
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25,2000 - July 5, 2003
-128-
Page No.
Holidays............................................................................. 19
Clerk-Recorder Staff.............................................................. 23
Compensation...................................................................... 21
Conformity with State Holidays.................................................... 22
Court Staff.....................................................................   22
Eligibility for Holiday Pay....................................................... 22
Exempt Work Situations............................................................ 22
Number for Shift Workers.......................................................... 21
Observed on Work Days............................................................. 21
Value ..........................................................................   20
Hours of Work Defined...............................................................   7
Hours of Work, Shifts, Schedules, and Rest Periods.................................... 7
Industrial Sick Leave Benefit........................................................ 31
Job Contacts.......................................................................... 5
Jury Duty, Leave for................................................................  17
Layoffs, Notice of................................................................... 49
Leave Without Pay, Effect on Vacation Credit......................................... 25
Leaves of Absence.................................................................... 14
Accept Appointment to Another Position in Classified Service...................... 16
Accept Appointment to Unclassified Service.......................................  16
Death in Immediate Family......................................................... 18
Disability Leave.................................................................. 17
Educational Leave................................................................. 15
Employment With the Union......................................................... 19
Examination Process............................................................... 19
Jury Duty or to Answer Subpoena................................................... 17
Literacy Program.................................................................. 19
Maternity Leave................................................................... 18
Military Leave.................................................................... 15
Outside Employment, No Leave for.................................................  14
Paternity and Adoptive Leave...................................................... 18
Selection or Transfer Process....................................................  19
Special Project Assignment.......................................................  17
When Lent to Other Governmental Agency/lnstitution................................ 16
Library Department, Biweekly Work Schedule........................................... 13
Life Insurance....................................................................... 51
Limitation on Unused Vacation Leave Balances......................................... 24
Long-Term Disability Insurance Policy................................................ 53
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-129-
Page No.
Major Medical Supplemental Paid Sick Leave.......................................... 30
Mandated Fringe Benefits, Effect of................................................. 49
Maternity Leave....................................................................  18
Maximum Allowable Vacation	Balance................................................ 25
Maximum Vacation Leave.............................................................  25
Medical Report, Sick Leave.......................................................... 31
Meetings............................................................................. 5
Mileage Rates Payable............................................................... 39
Military Leave...................................................................    15
Minimum Allowance for Use of Private Automobiles.................................... 39
Mutual Respect......................................................................  1
Night Shift, Premium Conditions..................................................... 33
No Discrimination.................................................................... 2
No Discrimination on Account of Union Activity....................................... 2
No Leave to Accept Outside Employment............................................... 14
No Strike, No Lockout............................................................... 53
Notice of Layoffs................................................................... 49
Notice of Recognized Union........................................................... 2
Overtime............................................................................. 9
Authorized/Defined................................................................ 9
Payment.......................................................................     9
Rates Defined...................................................................   9
When it Shall be Paid............................................................ 10
Paid Time Off For Education Purposes................................................ 15
Paternity Leave....................................................................  18
Personal Disability Leave in Conjunction With SDI................................... 48
Personal Leave...................................................................... 27
Premium Allowance for Use of Private Automobiles.................................... 40
Premium Conditions................................................................   33
Probation Department, Biweekly Work Schedule........................................ 11
Public Works Agency, Biweekly Work Schedule......................................... 12
Recognition.......................................................................... 1
Registrar of Voters Department, Biweekly Work Schedule.............................. 12
Reimbursement for Property Damage, Use of Private Automobiles....................... 40
Reporting Pay, Special Performance Pay.............................................. 35
Rest Periods......................................................................... 7
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-130-
Page No.
Safety.............................................................................. 44
Safety Committees, Departmental or Office..........................................  44
Salary Adjustments, Special......................................................... 40
Savings Clause.....................................................................  53
Scope of Agreement..................................................................	53
Shop Stewards........................................................................ 5
Conduct of Meetings............................................................... 7
Duties and Responsibilities....................................................... 6
Purpose........................................................................... 5
Role of Steward and Supervisor.................................................... 6
Selection of Stewards............................................................  6
Signs............................................................................. 7
Sick Leave........................................................................   28
Conversion to Vacation........................................................... 29
Credit at Retirement............................................................  30
Cumulative Sick Leave Plan......................................................  29
Defined.......................................................................... 29
Employee Defined................................................................. 29
Family........................................................................... 31
Industrial....................................................................... 31
Major Medical Supplemental Paid Sick Leave....................................... 30
Medical Report................................................................... 31
N-Designated Classifications, Health/Dental Entitlement........................   33
SAN Classifications, Health/Dental Entitlement................................... 33
Self-Inflicted Injury Excluded................................................... 29
Usage Report-S.L.I.C.E. Report................................................... 31
Sideletters of Agreement........................................................... 133
Social Services Agency, Biweekly Work Schedule...................................... 11
Social Services Agency Caseloads.................................................... 49
Special Performance Pay............................................................  34
Split Shift, Premium Conditions..................................................... 33
Standby Duty, Special Performance Pay............................................... 34
State Disability Insurance (SDI)...................................................  47
State Holidays, Conformity With..................................................... 22
Subpoena, Leave to Answer..........................................................  17
Temporary Assignment to Higher Position, Special Performance Pay.................... 34
Term of Memorandum.................................................................. 54
Transfer Hot Line................................................................... 51
Treasurer-Tax Collector, Biweekly Work Schedule..................................... 13
Two Weeks’ Notice Upon Termination.................................................  43
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-131-
Page No.
Uniform Allowances.............................................................. 50
Union Bulletin Board, Meetings and Access to Employees........................... 4
Union Employment, Leave for..................................................... 19
Union Grievance................................................................. 46
Union Security................................................................... 2
Unpaid Leave, Extra Week........................................................ 28
Use of County Facilities......................................................... 4
Vacation Leave.................................................................. 23
Accrual...................................................................... 23
Cash Payment in Lieu of...................................................... 24
Changeover to Maximum Allowable Vacation Balance and Use of
Previously Accrued Vacation.............................................. 25
Continuation of Section...................................................... 28
Date When Credit Starts...................................................... 25
Effect of Absence on Continuous Service...................................... 25
Effect of LWOP..............................................................  25
Limitation on Unused Balances................................................ 24
Maximum.....................................................................  25
Personal Leave............................................................... 27
Purchase Plan..............................................................   27
Rate of Pay.................................................................. 27
Sellback..................................................................... 27
Transfer..................................................................... 28
When First is Due............................................................ 25
When it May be Taken......................................................... 26
Vision Reimbursement Plan....................................................... 53
Voluntary Reduction of Work Period............................................... 8
Wages.........................................................................   40
Wages, Special Adjustments...................................................... 40
Work Schedule and Change of Shift................................................ 7
Workday and Workweek............................................................. 7
Working Nonassigned Shifts....................................................... 8
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-132-
SIDELETTERS OF AGREEMENT
Table of Contents
Sideletters of Agreement and Letters of Understanding are provisions negotiated by the Union and the County that are separate from, and supplemental to, our Memorandum of Understanding. These provisions are not grievable, unless so specified in their language, but they are legally enforceable through the courts.
Page No.
Alameda County Medical Center/General Services Agency - Transfer Policy.........................134
Alameda County Medical Center - Commitment to Placement in the Event of Layoff..................135
Clerical Classification Study...................................................................136
County Central Committee Safety Committee Chair.................................................137
Departmental Personnel Manual...................................................................138
Dependent Care Salary Contribution............................................................. 139
Emergency Services Dispatcher Communication Training........................................... 140
Health and Safety...............................................................................141
Health and Safety Provisions..................................................................  142
Health Plan Task Force..........................................................................144
Keepers' Hours, Sheriffs Department............................................................ 145
Paid Sick Leave On Scheduled Workdays Only......................................................146
Probation Department - Food Services Division...................................................147
Release Time for Retirement Planning............................................................148
Scheduling Of Lunch Periods...................................................................  149
Services As Needed Conversion - Local 250 Classifications.......................................150
Sheriffs Technician Overtime and Transfer Policy................................................152
Sickout Sideletter..............................................................................153
Social Services Agency
•	Department of Children and Families Services............................................157
•	Eligibility Intake Caseloads........................................................... 162
•	Foster Care Caseloads...................................................................163
•	Joint Committees for Department Concerns................................................164
•	Welfare Workload Distribution ......................................................... 166
•	Welfare to Work - CalWORKS Integrated Intake/Case Management............................167
Temporary Workers...............................................................................168
Vacation Seniority...........................................................................   169
Vector Control Officers - Cell Phones...........................................................170
Welfare Reform..................................................................................171
Word Processing Differential....................................................................172
Workload During Negotiations....................................................................173
Workplace Violence Guidelines...................................................................174
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-133-
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
ALAMEDA COUNTY MEDICAL CENTER AND THE GENERAL SERVICES AGENCY - TRANSFER POLICY
Except in cases of emergency or unforeseeable circumstances, employees in the Alameda County Medical Center and the General Services Agency who are reassigned to a different work location shall be given at least ten calendar days’ notice of any change in work location.
This sideletter is grievable.
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT
For the County:
For the Union:
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-134-
September 3, 1997
Lakeside (Plaza ‘Building, 100 dourteentfi Street, Oal^land, CS4 94612-4311
9\(aomi O. Hums	Stephen Q. Amano
‘Director	Deputy Director
Fran Jefferson SEIU Local 616 337 - 17th Street Oakland, CA 94612
Shirley Ware
SEIU Local 250 560 - 20th Street Oakland, CA 94612
Fred Beal
SEIU Local 535 667 - 27th Street Oakland, CA 94612
SUBJECT: LETTER OF COMMITMENT
Dear Ms. Jefferson, Ms. Ware and Mr. Beal:
When an Agency/Department implements a reduction in force, Alameda County Civil Services Rules and Regulations govern the process to be followed for impacted individuals in the classified service. Moreover, Section 23 of the SEIU Memorandum of Understanding states in part that..."the County shall give reasonable notice to the Union before effecting any layoff which materially affect employees represented under the agreement and, upon receiving such notices, the Union may meet and confer regarding the effect of the layoff."
Notwithstanding the provisions cited above, this will confirm that, during the meet and confer process relative to the impact of a reduction in force, the County agrees to continue its practice to carefully review and consider the Union’s request to place impacted employees affected by a reduction in force, in vacant positions and in classifications to which they have tenure and are otherwise qualified, based on total County seniority. Furthermore, separate and apart from the provisions set forth in the existing Alameda County Civil Services Rules and Regulations, the County affirms its commitment to work diligently with all County Departments and exert all reasonable efforts to place employees who are impacted by a reduction in force in the Alameda County Medical Center in vacant positions county-wide and classifications for which they are qualified.
Very truly yours,
Director
NOB:JMJ:me
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-135-
Lakeside Tfaza “BuiCding 1401 Lakeside Drive, Suite 200
Services
Oakland CJ4 94612-4305
Alameda County
June 14, 2000
Fran Jefferson SEIU Local 616 337-17th Street Oakland, CA 94612
SUBJECT: CLERICAL CLASSIFICATION STUDY
Dear Ms. Jefferson:
Recently we have discussed the changing nature of clerical work in the County. Change has occurred as a result of major reorganization such as the Social Services Agency and the ongoing technology revolution. A significant number of clerical support staff functions will also change when Alcolink becomes operational.
To insure that we have a classification and compensation plan responsive to the needs of both the County and its employees, my department is planning a major undertaking by conducting a comprehensive study of the entire clerical series. For this study to be meaningful and not quickly outdated we must first get Alcolink up and running so that we may study the manner in which that affects clerical work. It is our commitment to initiate a comprehensive clerical study within six months after Alcolink becomes fully operational.
In a manner consistent with our past practice, we will solicit your input, share the study with you and meet with you regarding its implementation.
Very truly yours,
Naomi O. Bums Director
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-136-
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
COUNTY CENTRAL SAFETY COMMITTEE CHAIR
The Chair of the County Central Safety Committee will be rotated semi-annually.
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT
For the County
For the Union
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-137-
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT:
The Parties agree to enter into a side letter which provides the following:
Those Departnients/Agencies that have or in the future develop a Personnel Manual shall provide at no charge to each SEIU local union, which represents employees in its Department/Agency, one copy of that Personnel Manual and any updates.
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT:
For the County:
For the Union:
DATED:
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-138-
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
1221 OAK STREET • SUITE 555 • OAKLAND. CALIFORNIA D46I2 • (415) 272-6084
STEVEN C. SZALAY ASSISTANT COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
DEPENDENT CARE SALARY CONTRIBUTION
Except for employees in classifications enumerated in Appendix B, effective the first pay period in August, 1988, subject to the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Service, employees may contribute up to $5,000 each calendar year from their salaries for approved dependent care. (Eligible employees may only salary contribute for such expenses; there is no county contribution for dependent care.)
Reimbursements are made on a monthly basis subject to submission of itemized statements, adequate accumulation of the salary contribution, proof of payment, and applicable county administrative procedures.
Signed and entered into this / 7	of	1987.
(81421)
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-139-
AUGUST 23, 1997
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
SEIU LOCALS 616,250, AND 535 AND THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
COMMUNICATIONS TRAINING
Within 90 days of the adoption of the 1997-2 OflOMemorandum of Understanding between SEIU Locals, 616, 250, and 535 and the County of Alameda, the Alameda County Sheriffs Department agrees to commence a meet and confer with SEIU Local 616 to consider a training differential for Emergency Services Dispatcher Il’s who are assigned to Wain Emergency Services Dispatcher I’s or H’s.
FOR THE COUNTY
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-140-
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
HEALTH AND SAFETY
A. The Union shall have the right to designate workplace Union Safety Representative pursuant to CAL-OSHA laws.
The County’s Risk Manager shall respond in writing to all recommendations made by the County-wide Safety Committee within sixty (60) days after receipt of said recommendations.
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT:
blthsaf.selu 9/28/94
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-141-
July 10, 2000
TENTATIVE AGREEMENT
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY
A.	The Union shall have the right to designate workplace Union Safety Representatives pursuant to CAL-OSHA laws.
B.	The County's Risk Manager shall respond in writing to all recommendations made by the County-wide Safety Committee within sixty (60) days after receipt of said recommendations.
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT:
This paragraph to be added to the Administrative Code:
It is the County's responsibility to maintain a safe working environment. The County will conduct and maintain facilities (owned or leased) in accordance with standards established by the State Division of Occupational Safety & Health and in compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act and other applicable safety and health regulations.
The following items were discussed and agreed to by the parties:
1.	The County agrees to amend the provisions of Administrative Code Section 2.108 - Safety Committee. Specifically, the County will rewrite Section 2.108.020 Membership as follows:
"The committee consists of four (4) members selected as follows:
a.	One staff member of the Human Resource Services Department designated by the Director of Human Resource Services.
b.	One staff member of the Risk Management Department serving in the capacity of County Safety Officer.
c.	One staff member of the Public Works Agency designated by the Director of Public Works.
d.	One staff member of the General Services Agency designated by the Director, General Services
Agency."
2.	Each department will include SEI U represented employees in agency/department or work site safety committees that currently exist or are formed during the term of this Memorandum of Understanding. The agency/department SEIU field representative will submit a list of union designated employees to be appointed to the agency/department or work site safety committee. The size of each committee will be determined by the agency/department head. The number of department SEIU designated employees assigned to a committee will be determined by mutual agreement. In the event the Union and the Department are unable to agree on the number of Union designated employees, the Union may appeal to the Central Safety Committee. If the Central Safety Committee is unable to reach a majority decision, it may be appealed to the County Risk Manager. Committees will meet monthly unless the committee members agree to an alternative schedule. The committees may elect to have a rotating chairperson.
3.	‘ The County Safety Officer will provide orientation/training to the members of the Departmental Safety Committees. Training provided to safety committee members may be developed by the County Central Safety Committee, subject to the approval by the County Safety Officer. In the event outside training is available to the committees, the County will allow release time for committee members in accordance with Section 19E. of the Memorandum of Understanding.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000-July 5, 2003
-142-
4.	The County Safety Officer will distribute to County employees a memorandum specifying the procedure that should be followed in reporting hazards or safety problems. This memo will also identify the Department's Safety Coordinator and the members of the Departmental Safety Committee. The content of the memo will be developed by the County Central Safety Committee, subject to the approval of the County Safety Officer.
5.	A Safety/Hazard Report Form will be developed by the County Central Safety Committee. This form will be available for distribution through supervisors, safety committee members, departmental safety coordinator and the County Safety Officer. The Safety/Hazard Report Form will be attached to the memo described in Section 4 above.
6.	The County Safety Officer will prepare and circulate one copy of the County's Cal/OSHA log to each of the three SEIU locals on a quarterly basis. These forms will also be made available to the Departmental Safety Committees upon request.
7.	The County reserves the right to reopen the MOU regarding safety committees, work site representatives, and orientation/training of designated on-site employee representatives. If the parties are unable to reach agreement during the reopener negotiations, the County reserves its right to implement its proposals pursuant to the Meyers-Milias-Brown Act.
FOR THE COUNTY:
FOR SEIU:
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25,2000 - July 5, 2003
-143-
July 10, 2000
SEIU NEGOTIATIONS
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE
SEIU LOCALS 250, 535,616 AND THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
HEALTH PLAN TASKFORCE
During the course of the 2000 SEIU contract negotiations, the County communicated its intent to revise the contribution rates for health benefits from the Kaiser premium rate to the lowest medical plan provider’s rate. In response to the County’s intent to revise rates, SEIU expressed concerns regarding the impact of such changes on their membership. In an effort to constructively address the concerns raised by SEIU, coupled with the need of the County to revise rates, the parties have agreed to the establishment of a Task Force.
The purpose of the Task Force will be to provide a framework for effective labor-management collaboration in examining and developing alternatives to the manner in which the County funds its health and dental plans. The Task Force will comprise a maximum of three SEIU representatives and three County representatives who will meet a minimum of twice a month.
The Task Force will be established on June 1, 2001 and will remain in full force until its expiration on October 1, 2001. If by October 1, 2001, the Task Force does not develop alternatives mutually acceptable to the parties, both parties agree to reopen negotiations regarding Section 14 of the MOU (Health and Dental). The MOU reopener negotiations will conclude no later than December 31, 2001. If the parties are unable to reach agreement during the reopener negotiations, the County reserves its right to implement its proposals (to become effective calendar year 2003) pursuant to the Meyers-Milias-Brown Act. This sideletter will supercede Section 14.C of the MOU.
FOR THE COUNTY:
DATE: -Xjy 24, 2O6A
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-144-
MEL HING COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
1221 OAK STREET • SUITE 555 • O A K L AN D. C ALI FO R N IA 94012 • <415127 2-0964
STEVEN C. SZALAY assistant county administrator
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
HOURS PER WEEK: KEEPERS' HOURS, SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT
The County agrees to remove the restriction placed on the Sheriff's Department which limited the hours of work for the classification of Keeper (SAN) to 32 hours per week, and the Sheriff may allow employees in the classification of Keeper and Keeper (SAN) to work up to 40 hours per week at his discretion.
r the
For the County:
SEIU/ Local 535
Signed and entered into this
, 1987.
(81421)
SEIU, Local 616
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-145-
MEL HING COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR 1Z2I OAK STREET • SUITE SSS • OAKLAND. CALIFORNIA 84612 • I41SI 272-6884
STEVEN C. SZALAY ASSISTANT COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
PAID SICK LEAVE ON SCHEDULED WORK DAYS ONLY
The amendment to Section 11D of the SEIU MOU which grants paid sick leave only for those days on which an employee would have been scheduled to work, does not prevent the employee who becomes ill while on paid vacation, from receiving sick leave under the provisions of Personnel Bulletin #6: Sick Leave on Paid Vacation.
For the County:
ho
Signed
SE
SEI
SEIU, Local 616
and entered into this	of	, 1987.
(81421)
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-146-
Afameda County
/ Luman .
source Services
Lakeside “Plaza Building 1401 Lakeside “Drive, Suite 200 Oakland CJ4 94612-4305
July 6, 2000
Fred Beal
SEIU Local 535 667- 27th Street
Oakland, CA 94612
Fran Jefferson SEIU Local 616 337-17th Street Oakland, CA 94612
Steve Espinoza SEIU Local 250 560-20* Street Oakland, CA 94612
SUBJECT: LETTER OF COMMITMENT
Dear Mr. Beal, Ms. Jefferson, & Mr. Espinoza:
It is the policy of the Board of Supervisors that all County agency and department heads continually examine the services they provide, to ensure that they are being administered in the most efficient and effective manner possible.
In the event of a reduction-in-force due to the contracting of Food Services in the Probation Department, the County affirms its commitment to train impacted SEIU-represented employees as deemed appropriate and place these employees in vacant county-wide positions and classifications for which they are qualified.
The provision applies to individuals employed as of June 30,2000 and will remain in effect during the term of this agreement.
Very truly yours,
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-147-
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (SEIU) LOCALS 250,535,616 AND THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
RELEASE TIME TO ATTEND RETIREMENT PLANNING SESSIONS
This sideletter of agreement provides that County employees represented by SEIU and who are members of the Alameda County Employees’ Retirement Association (ACERA) shall be afforded paid release time to attend two ACERA sponsored workshops or seminars per year.
Upon ten working days advance notice by the employee to his/her supervisor, an employee, who is a member of ACERA, shall be granted paid release time to attend two ACERA sponsored workshops/seminars per year which are held during the employee’s scheduled working hours. Sufficient paid leave shall be granted to permit the employee to travel between the work place and the session site. Planning sessions for jurisdictions other than the County of Alameda are exempted from this sideletter.
With prior notice to the immediate supervisor, additional leave may be granted by the Agency/Department Head and charged to the employee’s accrued vacation, compensatory time, in-lieu holiday and floating holiday balance.
An Agency/Department shall not deny a request for this leave except for reasons critical to the operation of the Agency/Department.
FOR THE COUNTY:
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-148-
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
JOSEPH P. BORT
SUPERVISOR FOURTH DISTRICT
Mrs. Shirley Ware
Hospital and Institutional
Workers, Local 250
2417 Mariner Square Loop Alameda, Ca. 94501
August 4, 1981
Mr. Randy Johnese Social Services Union
Local 535 2936 McClure Oakland, Ca. 94606
Mrs. Diane Burneo United Service Employees, Local 616 337 - 17th Street Oakland, Ca. 94612
Dear Field Representatives:
RE: Scheduling of Lunch Periods
This is to confirm that it is not the intent of the County to intentionally assign a lunch.period to an employee so as to avoid giving the employee a rest period as provided in Section 6 (d) of the current Memorandum of Understanding.
Very truly yours,
Chairman, Board of supervisors
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-149-
AUGUST 28, 1997
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
SEIU LOCALS 616, 250 AND 535
AND THE
COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
STATEMENT OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES:
SERVICES-AS-NEEDED EMPLOYEES IN SEIU LOCAL 250
Within two pay periods of the adoption of the 1997 - MOU. employees serving in Services-as-Needed (SAN) positions within SEIU Local 250 (who work 2/5ths or more per pay period), the County will follow the administrative procedure outlined herein.
1-	MONITORING PROCESS
The County will establish a monitoring system for departments and agencies for the purpose of insuring that such departments and agencies are aware of the actual hours of work and length of employment of individuals serving in SAN positions. Commencing two pay periods after die adoption of this MOU. where the Personnel and Labor Relations Department determines that an employee is in a SAN position in SEIU Local 250 and has been regularly scheduled on a full or part time basis for 12 months (1950 hours for 75.0 / 2080 hours for 80.0) continuously in the same position in the same department and has gained tenure, one of the following actions will be required:
a.	Commence the process of transitioning the employee to full or part time status; or,
b.	Justify, in writing, to the Civil Service Commission why the employee should not be transitioned.
Disputes regarding such justification shall be resolved by the Civil Service Commission in accordance with the Commission’s established procedures for classification appeals, as referenced in Civil Service Rule 1232.
For employees in SAN positions who are regularly scheduled on a full-time basis, leaves of absence which have been agreed to and approved in writing by the department head of up to six months duration and/or periods of non-utilization or periods of non-availability totaling 15 work days or less in any twelve month period shall not constitute an interruption of continuous service for the purpose of this section. Such absences or periods of non-utilization I non-availability shall not count toward the accumulation of such service time, but their occurrence shall also not require an employee to begin again the accumulation of such service time. Therefore, the calculation of twelve months of continuous service may extend to the equivalent of twelve months of service accumulated over a longer period of time whenever such leaves of absence or periods of non-utilization / non-availability occur. Also for the purposes of this section, for employees in SAN positions who are regularly scheduled on a part-time basis, these same provisions in regard to the continuity of service shall apply on a pro-rated basis. (For example: an employee regularly scheduled to work three-fifths time may experience a temporary period of non-utilization / non-availability of a total of nine days or less in any twelve month period before incurring a break in the continuity of service.)
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-150-
Sideletter of Agreement Page 2
2.	CONVERSION TO PERMANENT STATUS:
Where the employing department requests the employee to be converted to full or part time status, the Personnel and Labor Relations Department will:
a.	Conduct an audit of the position to determine the appropriate class for conversion to full or part time status.
b.	Determine whether the.incumbent is appointable to the position either through a noncompetitive qualifying exam (the incumbent must have performed the duties of the position the equivalent of frill time for one year) or by being selected from an appropriate eligible list; and,
c.	If the incumbent is eligible for appointment, process the reallocation of the position. The
Personnel and Labor Relations Department will make its best effort to act on and where warranted, complete such reallocations within 45 calendar days of the receipt of the request from the employing department.
3.	APPLICATION
• a. This policy applies to employees in SEIU Local 250.
b.	It is not the intent of this policy to condone the continuing use of SAN appointments where a long-term history (a year or longer) of regular full or part time work scheduling in a position designated as SAN indicates such appointments are no longer consistent with Rule 1713.
c.	Nothing herein shall limit the right of employees in SAN positions to appeal the allocation of their positions pursuant to Civil Service Rule 1232.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-151-
June 14, 2000
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
SEIU LOCALS 250,535, AND 616 AND THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
SHERIFF’S TECHNICIAN OVERTIME AND TRANSFER POLICY
Within 90 days of the adoption of the 2000- 2003 Memorandum of Understanding between SEIU Locals 616, 535, and 250 and the County of Alameda, the Alameda County Sheriffs Department agrees to commence a meet and confer with SEIU Local 616 regarding Overtime and Transfer policies for Sheriffs Technicians.
FOR THE COUNTY:	FOR SEIU:
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-152-
JOSEPH P. BORT •URCRVISOR FOURTH DISTRICT
August 4, 1981
Mrs. Shirley Ware
Hospital and Institutional
Workers, Local 250
2417 Mariner Square Loop
Alameda, Ca. 94501
Mr. Randy Johnese Social Services Union, Local 535
2936 McClure
Oakland, Ca. 94609
Mrs. Diane Borneo United Service
Employees Local 616 337 - 17th Street Oakland, Ca. 94612
Dear Field Representatives:
RE: Sickout Side Letter
The County and Union agree as follows:	.
1.	County and Union have met and conferred pursuant to Government Code Section 3500 et Seq. regarding the County's policy of denying sick leave with pay to employees who have engaged in a "sickout" as a form of concerted action.
2.	County and Union agree that an employee absent during what an Agency/Department Head, in his/her discretion, determines to be a
concerted sickout shall not be eligible for sick leave with pay for such absence unless the employee submits within five (5) working days from the date of such absence evidence of sickness or injury consisting of declarations of the employee and a physician signed on forms supplied by the County, copies of which are attached. The Agency/Department Head, with the approval of the County Administrator, may waive the declarations requirement where there is compelling evidence of the employee's sickness or injury.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-153-
2-
Mrs. Shirley Ware Mr. Randy Johnese Ms. Diane Borneo
August 4, 1981
3.	Any dispute as to-whether an Agency/Department Head has erred in determining that a concerted sickout has occurred may be promptly appealed by the Union to the Board of Supervisors and/or the Superior Court.
Very truly yOurs,
Jpseph P. Bort chairman, Board of Supervisors
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-154-
ALAMEDA COUNTY STATEMENT TO SUPPORT REQUEST FOR SICK LEAVE
INSTRUCTIONS: It is the employee’s responsibility to have a physician certified to practice in California complete the form below in full, answering each question based upon his professional knowledge of the health situation for which sick leave is requested.
______________________________________________'________________was under my professional care from
Name of Employee
to. The patient was seen by me for the Date	Date
following conditions or disorder: ____________________________________________________________________
My diagnosis of the patient’s condition is: ________________________________________________
This diagnosis is based upon (check applicable statement(s):
 symptoms confirmed by observation or test
 symptoms reported by the patient
I am aware that the employee’s work duties are as follows (to be filled in by the employee, describing the specific job that the person performs for the County of Alameda): ;
Based upon my understanding of the employee’s job assignment and my assessment of the employee’s health situation, it is my recommendation that the person return to work on
Date
I declare under penalty of perjury that to the best of my knowledge and belief the foregoing is true and correct. Executed at______________, California, this_, of_____________,
19.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-155-
DECLARATION RELATIVE TO SICK LEAVE REQUEST
I am requesting paid sick leave from to
I declare that the ilIness/injury/disability for which I am requesting sick leave is bona fide and prevents me from performing my assigned duties. My absence from work was not related to a labor dispute with the County of Alameda or any department or officer or agent. I am aware that an investigation of this statement may be made and that, if it is found to be a misstatement of fact, disciplinary action including termination may be taken. I declare under penalty of perjury that the forgoing is true an correct.
Executed at California, this, day of,
19.
Signed_________■______________________________________
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-156-
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
SEIU LOCALS 616,535, AND 250 AND THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA July 10,2000
DEPARTMENT OF CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES
This Sideletter of Agreement between the County of Alameda and SEIU Locals 535,250 and 616 applies to bargaining unit members in the Department of Children and Families Services of the Alameda County Social Services Agency.
The Board of Supervisors is committed to value-based budgeting; it recognizes that the protection of vulnerable children from neglect and abuse has a very high priority in the allocation of County resources; and it pledges, as part of its budget process, to meet and confer as required by law and to seriously and earnestly consider any recommendation that will further child welfare caseload fairness and worker safety.
To that end, a joint Labor/Management Committee on the Crisis in Child Welfare will be established within 60 days from the adoption of this agreement, comprised of the Social Services Agency Director and a member of the Board of Supervisors who will reestablish and will meet with eight other management employees and eight non-management SEIU represented departmental employees designated by their Union. The Union participants will attend all Labor/Management Committee meetings on release time.
The goal of the Labor/Management Committee is to assist in the development of effective caseloads and to make recommendations to the Board of Supervisors for its review and consideration during its budgetary process each fiscal year. In order to achieve its goal, the Labor/Management Committee may develop, review, and recommend revenue enhancement strategies, structural and programmatic changes, fiscal strategies, effective caseload sizes and workers' safety initiatives.
The Labor/Management Committee will meet at least once a month to develop and refine triage plans, to monitor the outcomes of the budgetary/legislative strategies and worker safety efforts set forth in this sideletter and by mutual agreement whenever worker(s) have caseloads that exceed existing effective caseload sizes.
Minutes of each Labor/Management Committee meeting, including all Committee recommendations, shall be distributed to each member of the Board of Supervisors. Additionally, the Social Services Agency shall report three times per year to each Board member the nature of the assigned caseloads and any agency action taken to ameliorate the caseloads.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-157-
BUDGETARY/LEGISLATIVESTRATEGIES - INCREASE FEDERAL/STATE SOCIAL SERVICES REVENUES
•	Pursue Federal legislation to claim Title IV-E revenues for all court-ordered foster care placements.
•	Pursue Federal and State waivers to permit the County to retain Federal and State shares of CalWORKs (TANF) savings from welfare fraud activities.
•	Pursue State regulatory changes that would revise the CWS allocation to include unique needs of specific counties.
•	Pursue changes that would reflect the recommendations of the SB 2030 Child Welfare Services Workload Study to the extent possible.
WORKER SAFETY - IMPROVE SUPPORT FROM LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
The Agency will designate a Program Manager to work with a Sub-Committee of the Children and Family Services Labor Management Team to address worker safety issues. The Department will continue to work with local police jurisdictions to address worker safety issues through the joint protocol developed between Children and Family Services and Alameda County police jurisdictions: The Protocol, Intervention into Child Abuse and Neglect in Alameda County, A Multidisciplinary Approach. The Union may designate a Child Welfare Worker representative to attend the Juvenile Officer’s Coordinating Committee (JOCC) meeting .
WORKER SAFETY - EQUIPMENT FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE UNITS
Reliable Cars: The Department of Children and Family Services will work with the General Services Agency (GSA) to either replace or reallocate older and/or less reliable vehicles with newer cars that will be equipped with proper child safety seats.
Personal Alarms: The Social Services Agency will purchase personal alarms/safety sirens and any other equipment required by law for Child Welfare Workers, who are assigned to work in the field, upon request.
WORKER SAFETY - CELLULAR TELEPHONES
The Social Services Agency shall, within 90 days of the adoption of the Memorandum of Understanding between Alameda County and SEIU Local 250, 535,616, provide a cellular telephone for each employee in the classification of Child Welfare Worker, in the Department of Children and Family Services, who is regularly assigned to work in the field.
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-158-
WORKER SAFETY - INDEMNIFICATION
In the event that the County is served with a lawsuit or lawsuits involving members of the bargaining unit and in which bargaining unit members are identified by name as defendants, or are clearly identifiable as fictitiously named defendants, the County will immediately notify the bargaining unit member or members so identified or identifiable of their potential liability, and will also notify the member or members of their rights to County representation and indemnification pursuant to the Government Code of the State of California. Upon such notification, it will be presumed that the employee has thereby requested that the County provide a defense to the employee/employees unless the employee or employees specifically and with full knowledge of the facts and their right, affirmatively and unmistakably decline such representation and indemnification. In the event any conflict exists between the rights of the involved employees and the County in any lawsuit, the County will provide representation separate from that of the County or any other defendant as to whom there might be a conflict of interest.
COUNTY COMMITMENT
The Board of Supervisors is committed to reducing assigned caseloads to promote quality and effective services in the Department of Children and Family Services of the Social Services Agency. This commitment is consistent with the County's Value-Based Budgeting Program Priorities. Additional funding will be allocated to child welfare services whenever funding can be identified. Nothing herein removes the Board of Supervisors' discretion to determine during its budget deliberation processes that additional funding may be allocated to child welfare services.
CASE MONITORING
The Board of Supervisors is committed to reducing case assignments and effectively monitoring caseload sizes in order to promote quality and effective services in the Department of Children and Family Services of the Social Services Agency. Therefore, the Social Services Agency is establishing effective caseload sizes for those Child Welfare Workers who are assigned cases in one of the listed programs as their primary assignment .
Program	Effective Caseload Sizes
Emergency Response, field workers (ERU)*	15
Family Reunification	23
Permanent Placement	39
Group Homes	39
Family Maintenance — Children	32
Family Maintenance — Family	18
Dependency Investigation*	5
Adoptions Children	35
ILSP	39
SEED	23
Adoptions Court Unit	39
Particular Children Workers	40
MAPP Home Study	40
System of Care	8
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-159-
All existing Children and Family Services case carrying programs, as of July 1, 2000, not covered by this Sideletter of Agreement shall be discussed at the Social Services Agency - Children and Family Services Labor/Management Team meetings. The Union and Management shall meet on the status of the effective caseload sizes at a regular meeting of the Labor/Management Team (LMT) for the Department of Children and Family Services.
* It is the practice and policy of the Social Services Agency/Department of Children and Family Services, that when workers are assigned as an Emergency Response field worker (ERU) or a Dependency Investigator and are absent on approved leave for five or more consecutive work days, they shall be removed from assignment rotation during the period of their absence.
The Social Services Agency/Department of Children and Family Services shall give a weight of 1.5 for each case defined as Medically Fragile or Non-Reunification.
The Social Services Agency will prepare a report regarding current cases with the number of assigned workers and forward such report to the Board of Supervisors in the months of February, June and October of each year. The report will include the following elements:
•	Number of cases assigned by program
•	Number of case-carrying Child Welfare Workers by program
•	Personnel changes that may affect case assignments such as resignations, individuals on leave, etc.
•	Evaluation of Agency actions taken to reduce case assignments
The Board of Supervisors will assess the report and consider budgetary implications of the report during the annual budget preparation process.
The Director of the Social Services Agency shall notify the Social Services Subcommittee of the Board of Supervisors, the Union, and the Labor/Management Committee on Children and Families Service Delivery within 30 working days from the end of the month in which actual assigned cases exceed the effective caseload sizes by ten (10%) percent. Within 15 working days of that notification the Social Services Agency shall meet with the Union to disclose and discuss all information and provide copies of all documentation on which the projection is based. If no agreement is reached between the Union and the Social Services Agency to resolve the issue, the Director of the Social Services Agency shall notify the Social Services Subcommittee of the Board of Supervisors during a public meeting.
Any proposed changes in the effective caseload sizes or creations of new categories shall be subject to meet and confer pursuant to Section 22 of the Memorandum of Understanding.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
•160-
PREMIUM PAY
Effective August 20, 2000 Child Welfare Workers who are assigned cases in one of the programs listed above as their primary assignment, shall receive a $100 premium payment per pay period when their caseload exceeds effective caseload size for a continuous period of at least 60 calendar days. Such premium payment shall be made retroactive to the pay period when the worker’s caseload exceeded 10% of the effective caseload size and will continue through the pay period during which their caseload falls below 10% of the effective caseload size.
GRIEVANCE PROCESS
The provisions of this Sideletter of Agreement shall be grievable, pursuant to Section 20 of the Memorandum of Understanding. However, the union may file and pursue claims that the Social Services Agency and/or the Director of Social Services, but not the Board of Supervisors or its committees, have failed to perform duties placed upon them by the provisions of the agreement. In no event, however, shall an arbitrator have the power to require that fewer cases be assigned to any Child Welfare Worker or that additional workers be assigned or hired.
FOR THE COUNTY:

DATE:	26 2000
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-161-
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
SOCIAL SERVICES AGENCY ELIGIBILITY INTAKE CASELOAD STANDARDS
JUNE 28, 2000
It shall be the policy of the Social Services Agency that Eligibility Technicians (ETs) assigned to Intake who are absent from work on approved leave for five (5) or more consecutive work days shall be removed from Intake assignment rotation during the period of their absence. The following modifications (*) in the Intake assignment standards will become effective 60 days after adoption of the MOU.
General Assistance Intake ETII* = (includes FS/ESFS/CHASS)
CalWORKS Intake ET II
MediCal Intake II	=
FS Only (Non-Assistance) Intake ET II * =
45 applications/month
31 applications/month
41 applications/month in odd-numbered months
42 applications/month in even-numbered months
70 applications/month
These standards may be adjusted either to a higher or lower number in accordance with the provisions of Section 22 of the current Memorandum of Understanding.
This sideletter is grievable.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-162-
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
SOCIAL SERVICES AGENCY FOSTER CARE CASELOADS
JULY 2, 2000
The effective caseload size for Eligibility Technicians (ETs) in the Foster Care program shall be as follows:
Foster Care Intake: 31 applications/month
Foster Care District: 277 cases/month
Within 60 days of the adoption of the 2000-2Zo3Memorandum of Understanding between SEIU Locals 616, 535, and 250 and the County of Alameda, the Department of Children and Family Services agrees to commence a meet and confer regarding the Kinship Guardianship Assistance Payment (Kin-GAP) Program.
FOR THE COUNTY:	FOR SEIU:/ /
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-163-
July 6, 2000
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
JOINT COMMITTEES FOR DEPARTMENT CONCERNS
SOCIAL SERVICES AGENCY
The Alameda County.Sodal Services Agency and Service Employees International Union Locals 535 and 616 hereby agree to the following:
1.	Joint Committees for Department Concerns
A.	The Purpose of the Committees
1.	The long-term goal of this agreement is to establish a framework for effective labor-management collaboration which enables the Agency to creatively address the demands of the future while preserving the integrity and rights of the workforce.
2.	The purpose of the Committees will be to meet, discuss, decide, or make recommendations regarding issues related to the operation of the Agency’s service departments. Issues may include but are not limited to the following:
a.	Consistency of Department operations with policies
b.	Communications
c.	Workload distribution
d.	Morale
e.	Department procedures
f.	New program initiatives
3.	The Committees will provide a forum for information-sharing, identification of issues requiring resolution, and review of workplace developments.
4.	The Committees will not discuss issues related to discipline, grievances, individual performance problems, negotiations, or meet-and-confer items.
B.	Composition
1.	The Committees will include a maximum of six Social Services Agency representatives from SEIU Local 535 and/or 616 plus a Business Agent from 535 and a Business Agent from 616, and an equal number (up to eight) of representatives from Department administration, including the Department Head.
C.	Committee Protocol
1.	Committee protocol will be decided by the Committees. Such issues as routing of agenda and minutes, meeting leadership, and recording will be decided at the initial meetings.
2.	Committees should maintain formal agendas and records of meetings.
3.	Responsibility for chairing the Committees will be alternated between SEIU and management.
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-164-
4.	The Committees shall meet no less frequently than bi-monthly.
5.	This sideletter shall be in effect through the term of the current MOU between Alameda County and SEIU Locals 535 and 616.
D.	Joint Labor-Management Teams
It is acknowledged by the County that employees designated by the Union and released by the County to serve on teams specifically designated as a joint departmental Labor-Management Team lasting more than 30 calendar days may be unable to maintain their workload when attending said meetings. To that end, the Director or his/her designee shall reassign or make other reasonable adjustments to the employees’ workload as the Agency determines necessary.
Committees
Labor-Management Team for Department of Children and Families Services
Labor-Management Tearn for Department of Welfare to Work
Labor-Management Team for Department of Adult and Aging Services
Labor-Management Team for Department of Workforce and Resource Development
Labor-Management Team for Agency Administrative and Finance
FOR THE COUNTY
FOR SEIU
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-165-
SIDE LETTER OF AGREEMENT
WELFARE WORKLOAD DISTRIBUTION
DISTRIBUTION OF WELFARE WORKLOAD:	Where an employee, who is already at
“budgeted standards,” is assigned work other than that required by the regularly assigned caseload, the Agency shall endeavor to spread and rotate such extra assignments throughout the unit in such a manner that in any thirty (30) day period such extra tasks shall not fall disproportionately on any one worker.
(Signed 1976)
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-166-
July 10, 2000
SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCY WELFARE TO WORK
Intent:
To establish an Integrated Intake/Case Management program within the Social Services Agency Department of Welfare to Work.
Sideletter of Agreement
Language:
In the event that the Social Services Agency Department of Welfare to Work implements a CalWORKs Integrated Intake/Case Management Program, the effective number of cases that can be assigned to an Integrated Intake Employment Counselor shall be:
Twenty new employable CalWORKs applications per month
This sideletter shall be grievable.
FOR THE COUNTY:	FOR SEIlfc
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-167-
July 6, 2000
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE SEIU LOCALS 250,535,616 AND THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
TEMPORARY WORKERS
Alameda County is committed to reducing the utilization of temporary workers. To accomplish that objective, the County will develop a proactive action plan in conjunction with Agencies and Departments to reduce usage of temporary workers.
In its initial effort to reduce the use of temporary workers, the County will implement a tracking system to produce a report by January 1,2001. The report will track temporary workers by classification and duration of appointment for each Agency/Department. The report will be disseminated to Department Heads through Human Resource Services for the purpose of tracking the number and frequency of positions most often staffed by temporary workers. This information will be distributed to Agencies and Departments and will be provided to SEIU Locals 250, 535 and 616 on a quarterly basis.
The use of temporary workers is, in many cases, a practical tool that can permit Agencies and Departments to complete essential work, serve the public, and eliminate clerical backlogs due to employee absence situations, the difficulty of immediately filling vacant positions, and clerical overloads that oftentimes accompany the implementation of new technology. However, the County does not support the use of temporary workers for the purpose of avoiding the Civil Service hiring process when qualified eligible persons are available to fill vacant positions. To that end, the County will develop and carry out its plan to track, limit and reduce the use of temporary workers.
FOR THE COUNTY:
DATE:
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-168-
Office of the County Administrator
August 4, 1981
Mrs. Shirley Ware
Hospital and Institutional
Workers, Local 250
2417 Mariner Square Loop
Alameda, Ca. 94501
Dear Field Representatives:
Mr. Randy Johnese Social Services Union, Local 535 2936 McClure Oakland, Ca. 94609
Mrs. Diane Burneo United Services
Employees, Local 616 337 - 17th Street Oakland, Ca. 94612
RE: VACATION SENIORITY
This is to confirm for clarification purposes the sentence contained in Memorandum of Understanding Section 10 (j) "In the event of conflicting requests from employees, the matter shall be decided in favor of the employee having the longest County service in a classification within a vacation scheduling unit", shall be interpreted as follows:
An employee's seniority for vacation seniority purposes begins once he/she enters a vacation scheduling unit within his/her classification. Should an employee change his/her scheduling unit and/or classification the seniority accrual for vacation purposes starts over. Promotion within a flexible staffed position for purposes of vacation seniority will not be considered a change in classification.
Very truly yours,
orma J.
Chief Spokesperson
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-169-
SEIU NEGOTIATIONS JUNE 29, 2000
COUNTY COUNTER PROPOSAL TO UNION PROPOSAL #39
LETTER OF COMMITMENT
Within sixty (60) days of the adoption of a new Memorandum of Understanding between Alameda County and SEIU Locals 250,535, and 616, the County shall provide a cellular telephone to each employee in the classifications of Vector Control Officer and Senior Vector Control Officer in the Public Health Department, Environmental Health Services, who are regularly assigned to work in the field.
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5,2003
-170-
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN
SEIU LOCALS 616, 250, AND 535
AND THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
WELFARE REFORM AUGUST 24,1997
At the time that the State of California establishes guidelines for the implementation of Welfare Reform in the State, the parties agree to meet and confer over the implementation guidelines for Alameda County. The following items shall be topics of discussion:
•	assessment of the feasibility of movement into any classification represented by SEIU;
•	determination and/or establishment of civil service classifications to transition welfare recipients into the work force; and,
New classifications established as a result of Welfare Reform shall be accreted into the appropriate bargaining unit. The parties agree that no current bargaining unit employees or classifications represented by SEIU will be displaced or eliminated as a result of transitioning welfare recipients into positions or classifications represented by SEIU. Classifications which require changes in duties / responsibilities and respective salaries shall be subject to meet and confer.
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-171-
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
SEIU LOCALS 250,535, AND 616
AND THE
COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
WORD PROCESSING DIFFERENTIAL
JUNE 14, 2000
The parties agree that within 60 days of the adoption of the Memorandum of Understanding, SEIU represented employees receiving the word processing differential under Salary Ordinance Section 3-21.8 or 3-21.23 shall choose one of the options listed below:
Option 1:	Continue to receive the word processing differential at the specific dollar amount in
effect on the above date as long as the employee continues to meet the eligibility criteria pursuant to Salary Ordinance Section 3-21.8 or 3-21.23 and remains in the same position; or,
Option 2:	Waive eligibility for the word processing differential pursuant to Salary Ordinance
Section 3-21.8 or 3-21.23, and elect to receive a one-time lump sum payment of $1200.00.
To qualify for Option 2, an eligible employee must submit a completed Waiver of Word Processing form to the Agency/Department Human Resources Office within 60 days of adoption of the MOU, and continue to meet the eligibility criteria at the time of payment (2 pay periods after deadline to submit form). Employees who fail to submit a Waiver of Word Processing by the deadline will not be eligible for the one-time lump sum payment.
The parties further agree that effective within two pay periods after adoption of the Memorandum of Understanding, the provisions of Salary Ordinance Sections 3-21.8 and 3-21.23 will no longer apply to the following:
•	New hires, reinstated employees, or rehired employees; and
•	Employees who are promoted, demoted or transferred into another position
The provisions of Salary Ordinance Sections 3-21.8 and 3.2L23 will not apply to employees who waived eligibility for the differential by accepting the one-time lump sum payment.
FOR THE COUNTY:
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-172-
MEL HING COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
1221 OAK STREET • SUITE 555 • O AKL AN D. C ALIFO R N IA ©4512 • 14151 272-5084
STEVEN C. SZALAY ASSISTANT COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT
WORKLOAD DURING NEGOTIATIONS
The County recognizes that employees who are designated by the Union and released by the County for attendance at multiple meet and confer sessions lasting over 30 calendar days cannot perform work when the employee is attending meet and confer sessions. In those instances when the Agency/Department Head determines an employee's workload is not current due to attendance at meet and confer sessions, the Agency/Department Head shall reassign such portion of the employee's workload or make such other reasonable adjustments as the Agency/Department Head determines is necessary.
(81421)
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-173-
SEIU NEGOTIATIONS SIDELETTER OF AGREEMENT August 30,1997
This sideletter of agreement confirms the County’s commitment for all Agencies and Departments to develop workplace violence guidelines and to meet and confer with the Unions during the term of the agreement. Further, the policies developed shall insure compliance with the County-wide Workplace Violence Guidelines.
FOR THE COUNTY:
FOR THE UNION
SEIU 250, 535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-174-
ALAMEDA COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
** MINUTE ORDER **
UTie /o££acaiag. id action fatten ty. tfie iSaaxda/SupevitiaaJta on (2cta£e^ 24.2000
Approved as Recommended 0
Other □
Read title, waived reading of ordinance in its entirety and adopted ordinance 0-2001-19
Unanimous O Carson 0 Haggerty Q King EH Steele O Chan 0-4
Vote Key:	A=Yes; N=No; AB=Abstain; X=Excused
Documents accompanying this matter:
□ Resolution(s)
0 Ordinance(s) 0-2001-19
D Contract(s)■
File No. 15055______________
Item No. 8__________________
Copies sent to:
Robert Sheldon
Special Notes:
I certify that the foregoing is a correct copy of a Minute Order adopted by the Board of Supervisors, Alameda County, State of California.
ATTEST:
LESLIE BURNS, Assistant Clerk
Board of Supervisors
By: $0
Deputy
SEIU 250,535,616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-175-
COUNTY OF ALAMEDA		2000	PAYPERIOD CALENDAR	
FROM		 ,TO ’	PAYDAY	_ PAYPFRIOD
12/12/99	12/25/99	01/07/00 CHRISTMAS OBSERVED 12/24/99	00-01
12/26/99	01/08/00	01/21/00 NEW YEAR'S OBSERVED 12/31/99	00-02
01/09/00	01/22/00	02/04/00 MARTIN L KING'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 01/17/00	00-03
01/23/00	02/05/00	02/18/00	00-04
02/06/00	02/19/00	03/03/00 UNCOLN'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 02/11/00	00-05
02/20/00	03/04/00	03/17/00 • WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 02/21/00	'00-06
03/05/00	03/18/00	03/31/00	00-07
03/19/00	04/01/00	04/14/00	.	00-08
04/02/00	04/15/00	04/28/00	00-09
04/16/00	04/29/00	05/12/00	00-10
04/30/00	05/13/00	05/26/00	00-11
05/14/00	05/27/00	06/09/00	00-12
05/28/00	06/10/00	06/23/00	00-13
MEMORIAL DAY OBSERVED 05/29/00
06/11/00	06/24/00	07/07/00	00-14
06/25/00	07/08/00	07/21/00	00-15
		INDEPENDENCE DAY OBSERVED 07/04/00	
07/09/00	07/22/00	08/04/00	00-16
07/23/00	08/05/00	08/18/00	00-17
08/06/00	08/19/00	-	09/01/00	00-18
08/20/00	09/02/00	09/15/00	00-19
09/03/00	09/16/00	09/29/00	00-20
LABOR DAY OBSERVED 09/04/00 ADMISSION DAY OBSERVED 09/08/00
09/17/00	09/30/00	10/13/00	00-21
10/01/00	10/14/00	10/27/00 COLUMBUS DAY OBSERVED 10/09/00	00-22
10/15/00	10/28/00	11/09/00	00-23
10/29/00	11/11/00	11/22/00 VETERAN'S DAY OBSERVED 11/10/00	00-24
11/12/00	11/25/00	12/08/00	' THANKSGIVING OBSERVED 11/23/00 AND 11/24/00	00-25
11/26/00	12/09/00	12J22J00	00-26
COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
2001
PAYPERIOD CALENDAR
FROM		TO	PAYDAY		PAYPFRinn
12/10/00	12/23/00	01/05/01 CHRISTMAS OBSERVED 12/25/00	01-01
12/24/00	01/06/01	01/19/01 NEW YEAR'S OBSERVED 01/01/01	01-02
01/07/01	01/20/01	■	02/02/01 MARTIN L KING'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 01/15/01	01-03
01/21/01	02/03/01	02/16/01	01-04
02/04/01	02/17/01	03/02/01 UNCOLN'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 02/12/01	01-05
02/18/01	03/03/01	03/16/01 WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 02/19/01	01-06
03/04/01	03/17/01	03/30/01	01-07
03/18/01	03/31/01	04/13/01	01-08
04/01/01	04/14/01	04/27/01	01-09
04/15/01	04/28/01	05/11/01	01-10
04/29/01	05/12/01	05/25/01	01-11
05/13/01	05/26/01	06/08/01	01-12
05/27/01	06/09/01	,Q6/22/01 MEMORIAL DAY OBSERVED 05/28/01	01-13
06/10/01	06/23/01	07/06/01	01-14
06/24/01	07/07/01	07/20/01 INDEPENDENCE DAY OBSERVED 07/04/01	01-15
07/08/01	07/21/01	08/03/01	01-16
07/22/01	08/04/01	08/17/01	01-17
08/05/01	08/18/01	08/31/01	01-18
08/19/01	09/01/01	09/14/01	01-19
09/02/01	09/15/01	09/28/01 LABOR DAY OBSERVED 09/03/01 ADMISSION DAY OBSERVED 09/10/01	01-20
09/16/01	09/29/01	10/12/01	01-21
09/30/01	10/13/01	10/26/01 COLUMBUS DAY OBSERVED 10/08/01	01-22
10/14/01	10/27/01	11/09/01	01-23
10/28/01	11/10/01	11/21/01 VETERAN'S DAY OBSERVED 11/12/01	01-24
11/11/01	11/24/01	12/07/01 THANKSGIVING OBSERVED 11/22/01 AND 11/23/01	01-25
11/25/01	12/08/01	12/21/01	01-26
COUNTY OF ALAMEDA PAYPERIOD CALENDAR
2002
FROM	.TO	PAYDAY	PAYPFRIOD
12/09/01	12/22/01	01/04/02	02-01
12/23/01	01/05/02	01/18/02 CHRISTMAS OBSERVED 12/25/01 NEW YEAR'S OBSERVED 01/01/02	02-02
01/06/02	01/19/02	02/01/02	02-03
01/20/02	02/02/02	02/15/02 MARTIN Luther. KING'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 01/21/02	02-04
02/03/02	02/16/02	03/01/02 LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 02/12/02	02-05
02/17/02	03/02/02	03/15/02 WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 02/18/02	02-06
03/03/02	03/16/02	03/29/02	02-07
	- 	— 		- - 		. - —- -	 -- - - - . - - --- -	 — ■ - - -♦ -		
03/17/02	03/30/02	04/12/02	02-08
03/31/02	04/13/02	04/26/02	02-09
04/14/02	04/27/02	05/10/02	02-10
04/28/02	05/11/02	05/24/02	02-11
05/12/02	05/25/02	06/07/02	02-12
05/26/02	06/08/02	06/21/02 MEMORIAL DA Y OBSERVED 05/27/02	02-13
- - 	-	 — _ .		- 			- - — —.. -.. —- - — _ .... -- ^... _ ... - —			.	.	I	—
06/09/02	06/22/02	07/05/02	02-14
06/23/02	07/06/02	07/19/02 INDEPENDENCE DAY OBSERVED 07/04/02	02-15
07/07/02	07/20/02	08/02/02	02-16
07/21/02	08/03/02	08/16/02	02-17
08/04/02	08/17/02	08/30/02	02-18
08/18/02	08/31/02	09/13/02	02-19
09/01/02	09/14/02	09/27/02 LABOR DAY OBSERVED 09/02/02 ADMISSION DAY OBSERVED 09/09/02	02-20
09/15/02	09/28/02	10/11/02	02-21
09/29/02	10/12/02	10/25/02	02-22
10/13/02	10/26/02	11/08/02 COLUMBUS DAY OBSERVED 10/14/02	02-23
10/27/02	11/09/02.	11/22/02	02-24
11/10/02	11/23/02	12/06/02 VETERAN'S DAY OBSERVED 11/11/02	02-25
11/24/02	12/07/02	12/20/02 THANKSGIVING OBSERVED 11/28/02 AND 11/29/02	02-26
COUNTY OF ALAMEDA PAYPERIOD CALENDAR 2003
FROM	TO	PAYDAY	PAYPFRIOD
12/08/02	12/21/02	01/03/03	03-01
12/22/02	01/04/03	01/17/03 CHRISTMAS OBSERVED 12/25/02 NEW YEAR'S OBSERVED 01/01/03	03-02
01/05/03	01/18/03	01/31/03	03-03
01/19/03	02/01/03	02/14/03 MARTIN Luther KING'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 01/20/03	03-04
02/02/03	02/15/03	02/28/03 LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 02/12/03	03-05
02/16/03	03/01/03	03/14/03 WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY OBSERVED 02/17/03	03-06
03/02/03	03/15/03	03/28/03	03-07
03/16/03	03/29/03	04/11/03	03-08
03/30/03	04/12/03	04/25/03	03-09
04/13/03	04/26/03	05/09/03	03-10
04/27/03	05/10/03	05/23/03	03-11
05/11/03	05/24/03	06/06/03	03-12
05/25/03	06/07/03	06/20/03 MEMORIAL DA Y OBSERVED 05/26/03	03-13
■ ■				——■ ■ - ■ —' -			■ ■	’ 	 ..
06/08/03	06/21/03	07/03/03	03-14
06/22/03	07/05/03	07/18/03 INDEPENDENCE DAY OBSERVED 07/04/03	03-15
07/06/03	07/19/03	08/01/03	03-16
07/20/03	08/02/03	08/15/03	03-17
08/03/03	08/16/03	08/29/03	03-18
08/17/03	08/30/03	09/12/03	03-19
08/31/03	09/13/03	09/26/03 LABOR DAY OBSERVED 09/01/03	03-20
		ADMISSION DAY OBSERVED 09/09/03	
09/14/03	09/27/03	10/10/03	03-21
09/28/03	10'11/03	10/24/03	03-22
10/12/03	10/25/03	11/07/03 COLUMBUS DAY OBSERVED 10/13/03	03-23
10/26/03	11/08/03	11/21/03	03-24
11/09/03	11/22/03	12/05/03 VETERAN'S DA Y OBSERVED 11/11/03	03-25
11/23/03	12/06/03	12/19/03 THANKSGIVING OBSERVED 11/27/03 AND 11/28/03	03-26
NOTES
SEIU 250, 535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-176-
NOTES
SEIU 250,535, 616 June 25, 2000 - July 5, 2003
-177-