UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
AND
UNIVERSITY OF PROFESSIONAL AND
TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES (U ?TE)
AGREEMENT
HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS UNIT
MARCH 30, 2007 - JUNE 30, 2011
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	EAGE
1	Agreement.............................................. 1
2	Access................................................. 2
3	Arbitration Procedure.................................. 6
4	Campus Closure......................................... 11
5	Compensation........................................... 12
6	Corrective Action, Discipline and Discharge............ 16
7	Union Dues and Agency Fees Deductions.................. 18
8	Grievance Procedure.................................... 20
9	Health and Safety...................................... 26
10	Holidays............................................... 27
11	Hours of Work.......................................... 29
12	Job Posting............................................ 34
13	Layoff and Reduction in Time........................... 34
14	Leaves of Absence...................................... 40
15	Leave of Absence for Union Business.................... 51
16	Management Rights...................................... 52
17	Medical Separation..................................... 53
18	Military Leave......................................... 55
19	Moving Expenses........................................ 57
20	Multiple Appointments.................................. 57
21	No Strikes............................................. 58
22	Nondiscrimination In Employment........................ 58
23	Out-Of-Classification Assignments...................... 59
24	Parking................................................ 60
25	Performance Evaluation................................. 61
26	Personnel Files........................................ 62
27	Positions.............................................. 63
28	Probationary Period.................................... 67
29	Professional Development and Educational ..eave........	68
30	Reasonable Accommodation............................... 69
31	Reclassification Review................................ 71
32	Release Time For Review................................ 71
33	Resignation/Job Abandonment............................ 72
34	Severability........................................... 73
35	Shift Differential..................................... 73
36	Sick Leave............................................. 74
37	Subcontracting......................................... 78
38	Travel Reimbursement................................... 79
39	Uniforms............................................... 80
40	University Health And Welfare Benefits................. 80
41	University Retirement And Savings Plans................ 82
42	Vacation............................................... 83
43	Waiver................................................. 86
44	Work Rules............................................. 86
45	Work-Incurred Injury or Illness........................ 86
46	Workplace Committees;.................................. 88
47	Duration............................................... 90
48	Fair and Respectful Treatment.......................... 91
Memorandum of Negotiators................................ 92
Contract Execution....................................... 93
Appendix A:	Wages......................................................94
Appendix B:	Enumeration of University Benefits........................208
Appendix C:	list of Arbitrators.......................................211
Appendix D:	Grievance Form............................................213
Appendix E:	Side Letter (Inactive Titles).............................215
Appendix F:	Side Letter (UC Davis Medical Center-Premium Pay for Holidays).216
Appendix G:	Side Letter (UC San Francisco Holidays)...................217
Appendix H:	Side Letter (Equity Discussions)..........................218
Appendix I;	Side Letter: (UCLA/UCLAMC Experienced Based Steps)........219
Appendix J:	Side Letter: (PTO At UCLA Medical Center).................220
Appendix K:	Side Letter (Lump Sum Signing Bonus)......................221
Appendix L:	Side Letter (University Health And Welfare Benefits)......222
Appendix M:	Side Letter (University Retirement And Savings Plans).....223
Appendix N:	Side Letter (Mid Year Increases at UCSF/UCSFMC)...........224
ARTICLE 1 AGREEMENT
This Agreement, effective March 30, 2007, is entered into between The Regents of the University of California, a corporation (hereinafter referred '.o as the 'University^, or "management", or "employer"), represented by the Office of the F'resident of the University of California system, and the University Professional and Technical Employees - Communications Workers of America Local 9119 union, (hereinafter referred to as "UPTE" or the "union", pursuant to the provisions of the Higher Education Employer-Employee Relations Act (HEERA).
A, PURPOSE
It is the intent and purpose of the parties that this Agreement constitutes an implementation of the provisions of HEERA, and provides for orderly and constructive employment relations in the public interest, in the interests ol the employees represented by UPTE, and in the interests of the University, The parties hereby acknowledge that this Agreement represents an amicable understanding reached by the parties as a result of the unlimited right and opportunity of the parties to make any and all demands with respect to the employer-employee relationship that exists t atween them relative to the scope of bargaining.
B.	EXCLUSIVE REPRESENTATIVE
The University recognizes UPTE-CWA 9119, which wns certified by the Public Employment Relations Board (PERB) on September 15. 1S97 in SF-PC-1053-H as the sole and exclusive representative for the purposes of collecti"e bargaining with respect to wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment t:r all employees, excluding employees defined by HEERA as managerial, supervisory and/or confidential and all student employees whose employment is contingent upon th ;:ir status as students, in the Health Care Professionals (HX) bargaining unit,
C,	EMPLOYEE DEFINED
The term "employee" as used in this Agreement shall refer to employees of the University of California in the HX unit, except for those excluded pursua it to Section B„ above. The classes and title codes included in the HX unit are listed in Appendix A.
D.	CREATION OF NEW CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	UPTE recognizes that the University has the exclusive right to establish new title codes and titles for any individual, position, or title included in or excluded from the bargaining unit, as defined in Section B. of this article. The University shall advise UPTE of any such new title/title code.
2.	When the University creates a new classification an ! title within the bargaining unit, the University shall provide a notice to UF'TE of the classification's bargaining unit assignment at least sixty (60) calendf; days before the proposed date of implementation. The notice to the union s iall include a statement of reason(s) for the creation of the new classification. JPTE shall have thirty (30) calendar days after mailing of such notice to contest he University’s assignment of the newly created classification/title to the HX bargi lining unit. Employees shall not be placed in the new classification/title until the thiity (30) day notice period is complete. If UPTE does not contest the bargaining u lit assignment of the newly created position within the thirty (30) calendar dny notice period, the unit assignment of the new classification shall be deemr :1 agreeable to the parties and employees shall be assigned to the newly createt classification.
a.	If the new classification is in the bargaining uni in accordance with the provisions of Section D.1., above, the Universit" and UPTE shall meet and confer regarding the salary range and ancillary pay practices for that new classification in accordance with its protocols.
b.	If UPTE contests the bargaining unit assignr ent of the newly created classification/title within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving notice from the University, the University and UPTE shall meet in an effort to reach agreement on the bargaining unit assignment f:ir the classification. If the parties are unable to reach agreement regeiding the bargaining unit
1
assignment of the title/classification, the dispute shall be submitted to PERB for resolution.
c.	No employee shall be assigned to the newly established classification or title until the bargaining unit assignment is either agreed to or resolved by PERB, although the duties associated with the position may be assigned to the affected employees.
3.	When the University creates a new classification and title outside the bargaining unit, the University shall mail a notice to UPTE of the classification's bargaining unit assignment, if any.
4.	UPTE shall notify the University within thirty (30) calendar days of the mailing of the notice if UPTE intends to challenge the University's bargaining unit assignment of the new title and classification. The parties will meet to discuss UPTE's concerns. Following the discussions, any unresolved disputes may be submitted to PERB for resolution.
E.	RECLASSIFICATION FROM UNIT TO NON-U NIT POSITIONS
In the event the University determines that a position should be reclassified or designated for exclusion from the unit, or the University intends to replace the major portion of a bargaining unit position with a position in a classification outside of the unit, the University shall notify UPTE in writing at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the proposed implementation. If UPTE believes that the action violates this Agreement, UPTE shall, within thirty (30) calendar days of the mailing of the University's notice, notify the University in writing that it wishes to challenge the action. The parties will meet to discuss UPTE’s concerns. Any unresolved disputes that remain following these discussions may be submitted to PERB for resolution. The discussions shall not delay the exclusion.
F,	ABOLITION OF CLASSES
The University shall inform UPTE when classifications are abolished. The University will provide UPTE with sixty (60) calendar days notice of its intent to abolish a classification. The notice to the union shall include a statement of the reason(s) for the abolition. In the event employees will be affected by the abolition of a classification, the University and UPTE shall, following the request of UPTE, meet at least thirty (30) calendar days before the intended date of implementation, unless the parties agree otherwise. The University shall not abolish the classification unless the parties have reached an agreement. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement, the dispute shall be submitted to PERB for resolution.
ARTICLE 2 ACCESS
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
The parties acknowledge that it is in the union’s interest that it be granted access to University facilities for union business for the purpose of ascertaining whether the terms of this Agreement are being met; engaging in the investigation, preparation, and adjustment of grievances; conducting union meetings; explaining to bargaining unit members their rights and responsibilities under the Agreement; and informing Healthcare Professionals Unit employees of union activities, including collective bargaining.
1.	The University has the right to enforce reasonable access rules and regulations as promulgated at each campus/hospital/laboratory.
B.	PATIENT CARE AREAS
Union representatives shall have access to patient care areas only as necessary for travel to and from union business, UPTE representatives shall not contact employees in, or use patient care areas when conducting union business. When the designated campus/hospital/laboratory official and the union representative mutually agree that a
2
visit to a patient care area is necessary to adjust grievances, and contract related issues, access to patient care areas will be granted. "Patient care ana’ includes:
1.	Chart rooms and rooms that function as or are in the iature of chart rooms;
2.	Nursing stations;
3.	Patient and/or visitor lounges including patient conference rooms, sitting rooms, and solaria;
4.	Libraries or study areas located within patient care am as;
5.	Patient floor and operating room area corridors; and
6.	Patient rooms, operating rooms, laboratories, clinics, nnd other treatment and patient care areas.
C.	ACCESS BY THE UNION/UN1ON REPRESENTATIVES — (i EJERAL PROVISIONS
1.	Designated union UPTE representatives who are nut University employees, or who are not employed at the facility visited, may vinit the facility at reasonable times and upon notice to the designated campus/hospital/laboratory representative to discuss with the University or bargaining unit members' matters pertaining to this Agreement. In the case of visits fb ’ the purpose of conducting unscheduled meetings with bargaining unit member!;, the union representative shall give advance notice upon arrival in accordance with local campus/hospital/laboratory procedures.
2.	UPTE will furnish the University with a written list o’ all UPTE representatives, employee representatives and UPTE officers who an authorized by the union to conduct union business.
This list shall be maintained in a timely manner by UPTE and any changes, additions or deletions to the list must be made in writin ;j to the University.
3.	Union business or activities such as membership recruitment, campaigning for union office, hand-billing or other distribution of litenatu e, drafting of information to employees about union business/actlvities, and all oth it union activities shall take place during non-work time. Employee rest and meal periods are non-work time for the purposes of this Article.
D.	EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES
1.	The University shall recognize UPTE designated employee representatives who have been identified in accordance with the terms of th. is Agreement. The function of the UPTE designated employee representative is tc > inform employees of their rights under this Agreement, to ascertain that the te rns and conditions of this Agreement are being observed, and to investigate and assist in the processing of grievances.
2.	For the purposes of receiving paid release time as pre vided in this section, each campus/hospital/laboratory may have one UPTE-desir mated employee as UPTE designated employee representative (for example, or e representative from the San Diego campus & hospitals). If a campus/hospita laboratory has more than one hundred (100) bargaining unit members, UPTE may additionally designate one (1) UPTE-designated employee representative fo each one hundred (100) bargaining unit members thereafter, up to a maximum < if six (6) UPTE-designated employee representatives per campus/hospital/latx ratory. UPTE shall not designate more than one (1) UPTE designated em ployee representative per department.
a. The total cumulative use of paid release time lor any UPTE designated employee representative shall be limited to ten (10) hours in any one (1) month, with the exception of one (1) UPTE designated representative who would receive twelve (12) hours per month per location. University convened meetings pursuant to Article 9 - Grievance Procedure, shall not be deducted from this block of time.
3
p. The use of the maximum time provided shall be for grievance-related activity such as:
1)	The initial hand-delivered filing of a grievance and the retrieval of University documents provided pursuant to a written request for information related to a grievance;
2)	One on one meetings with a grievant concerning a filed grievance, or an alleged violation of this Agreement which is at the Informal Review stage of Article 8, Grievance;
3)	Meetings with the University representative to whom written grievances are presented, or to whom documents related to filed grievance are presented/signed, or with whom time limit agreements are achieved;
4)	Informal Review meetings held pursuant to Section E. of Article 8, Grievance;
c.	A request for release time will be made to the UPTE designated employee representative's supervisor prior to the activity. Such approval shall be granted solely based on operational needs and shall not be denied unreasonably.
d.	At its sole discretion, the University may authorize use of release time for more than the time limits provided in this Article. The exercise of this discretion and/or the enforcement by the University of the maximum time shall under no circumstances establish a precedent for the UPTE designated employee representative or department involved. Furthermore, the allowance of greater than the maximum time in a month for an UPTE designated employee representative shall not have any effect or bearing on the University’s ability to enforce the maximum on any other UPTE designated employee representative.
p.	Should a question of possible abuse of these release time provisions arise, the University will so notify UPTE, and the parties will attempt to resolve the matter. If a question remains, the University may take corrective action when warranted.
E.	meeting rooms and bulletin boards
1,	UPTE shall be granted use of designated general purpose meeting rooms. Such use shall be arranged in advance with the designated campus/hospital/laboratory Office and will not be unreasonably denied. Room reservations shall not be cancelled by the University except where unforeseen circumstances require the room to be used for purposes such as teaching, or patient care-related purposes, dr staff conferences. If a reserved room is canceled, the University will attempt to provide a comparable alternative.
2.	UPTE shall have access to general purpose bulletin boards and shall have the use of those bulletin boards. Any materials posted must be dated and initialed by the union representative responsible for the posting and a copy of all materials posted must be provided to the appropriate University representative at the location at the time of posting. At those locations where the University is responsible for posting material on bulletin boards, the University will post copies of the UPTE-provided material within one (1) business day.
F.	MAIL DELIVERY
United States mail, which is received by the University bearing an employee name and accurate address, will be placed in the employee mailboxes in the normal manner. In departments where employee mailboxes exist, the union shall have reasonable use of them. Iri departments where individual mailboxes are in a restricted work area, UPTE may make arrangements with the responsible University official in the restricted work area to have the UPTE mail placed in the employee mailboxes. Where mailboxes do not exist for employees, the University will distribute UPTE mail to employees by the normal method.
4
G.	TELEPHONE USE
Employee representatives may use University telephone i to conduct union business which is specifically authorized by Article 8, Grievance Procedure. Employees are responsible for paying any costs associated with such tel iiphone usage in accordance with the departmental procedures in effect at the time. Ti e frequency and duration of permitted telephone calls shall not be such as to interfere with or disrupt the employees’ completion of work assignments, nor impair the efficiency of University operations, UC may audit employee's use of telephone system.
H.	E-MAIL USE
Any use of e-mail by employee representatives shall conform to and be in accordance with applicable University policy regarding mail/electronic comm inications.
f. EMPLOYEE LISTS
1,	On a monthly basis, the University shall provide UPTE with an electronic list via File Transfer Protocol (FTP) of all employees in the bargaining unit. This list will include the following: name, title, title code, date of hire, annualized pay rate, percentage appointment, appointment type, campuis mailing address, and hiring unit. In addition, the list will include the home address and telephone number of bargaining unit members, unless the employee has specifically requested that the home information not be released. The University will provide UPTE a weekly list of changes (e.g. new hire, corrections, transfers, -alary changes) via FTP that have occurred within the bargaining unit.
2.	The Union will inform bargaining unit employees of I heir right to designate their home address as confidential. Such notice will bt provided when the union provides its "Hudson" notice to employees.
3.	Upon written request by UPTE, the University w.ll provide the undisclosed home addresses to a mutually agreed-upon mailing service firm through which UPTE can correspond with said individuals. The mailing service shall keep confidential the home address of the employees wl o have requested that the home information not be released. UPTE will bear a1! cos.s associated with this service,
4.	Employee work and home addresses and telephone numbers shall be maintained as confidential by the Union. The Union shall take all reasonable steps to ensure the confidentiality of all information provided to it under this Article.
5.	The Union agrees to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the University of California (including its subdivisions and employees) from any claim, suit or liability of any nature arising from (a) a challenge io this Section I; or (b) any action of the Union taken pursuant to, or in violat on of, this Section F. The Regents will give the Union prompt written notice (if any claim; suit or liability which it contends is subject to this provision.
J.	DISTRIBUTION OF AGREEMENT
A copy of this Agreement shall be given by the Universit / to each employee in the Bargaining Unit. The University and UPTE shall split the cost of printing contracts for unit members. In addition, the parties shall each pay for the number of copies they need for administrative and other purposes.
K.	NEW EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION
UPTE may be permitted to meet with new bargaining uni. employees in accordance with local campus/hospital/laboratory timetables, polic es and practices for a reasonable period of time not to exceed thirty (30) mini tes immediately after new employee orientation sessions, if any, for the purpose of sl-aring information with new bargaining unit employees. The University shall notify UP! 5 in advance of scheduled orientations, if any, upon request of the local UPTE representative.
5
ARTICLE 3 ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
A.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
1.	An appeal to arbitration may be made only by the union and only after the timely exhaustion of Article 8, Grievance Procedure. The appeal to arbitration must be signed by the President of UPTE-CWA Local 9119 or his/her designee, and filed with the Office of Labor Relations, Office of the President.
a.	When hand delivered, proof of service must accompany the appeal to arbitration. The date of receipt will be used to determine the date of the appeal for hand-delivered appeals.
b.	When mailed, the appeal must arrive in an envelope with a U.S. Postal Service Postmark. The U.S. Postal Service Postmark will be used to determine the date of the appeal for mailed appeals.
2.	For the purposes of this Article, time limits are calculated in calendar days, and deadlines which fall on a day which is not a University/campus business day will automatically be extended to the next business day. All time limits may be extended by written agreement of the parties in advance of the expiration of the time limit. The union's failure to meet any time limit, or extension to a time limit will render the Appeal to Arbitration ineligible for further processing and the University's Step 3 answer will be considered final.
3.	If the appeal to arbitration is withdrawn or an arbitration hearing otherwise does not take place, the University's Step 3 answer will be considered final.
4.	The decision of the arbitrator on any issue properly before her/him shall be final and binding.
5.	An appeal to arbitration shall not prohibit efforts by the University and UPTE to resolve the grievance during the time the appeal is pending and until such time that an arbitrator has rendered her/his decision.
6.	UPTE shall have full authority to settle, withdraw or otherwise dispose of any grievance brought on behalf of the union and/or on the behalf of employees. An agreement by the parties to settle, withdraw, or otherwise dispose of a grievance appealed to arbitration shall be binding upon the grievant(s).
7.	Where two (2) or more grievances are appealed to arbitration, all grievances by or related to the same employee(s), or grievances which relate to the same incident, issue or course of action, may be consolidated by agreement of the parties.
8.	TIME LIMITS
a.	Initial Filing - An appeal to arbitration must be filed within thirty (30) calendar days of the issuance of the University's Step 3 decision to the union. Appeals which do not contain the appropriate union signature will be considered ineligible for appeal to arbitration.
b.	University Acknowledgement of Receipt - Within fifteen (15) calendar days of the postmark or, in the case of hand delivery the date of receipt, of the union's appeal to arbitration, the University shall mail to the union an acknowledgment of the receipt of the appeal and the identity of the location to which all relevant correspondence should be directed.
c.	Scheduling of the Hearing Date - Within ninety (90) calendar days from the date the grievance was originally appealed to arbitration; the parties shall select an arbitrator and schedule an arbitration date. Should toe parties be unable to agree to a hearing date, the authority to schedule the hearing rests with the arbitrator. The parties may extend the ninety (90) day limit for scheduling the arbitration by mutual written agreement in advance of the expiration of the time limit. In such cases the arbitrator shall be provided with a copy of the written agreement.
6
d.	UPTE Request That A Grievance Be Placed in Abeyance - Should UPTE make a request that the grievance be placed in abeyance for any reason, the period of abeyance shall not exceed nine!' (90) days, except in cases of sexual harassment where it shall be one hundred-eighty days (180). The provisions of Section H.1 shall appt to grievances placed in abeyance by UPTE. Failure by UPTE to reach'ate the grievance within the ninety (90) or one hundred-eighty (180) day ti tie limit following agreement by the parties that it be held in abeyance, will render the grievance ineligible for arbitration and the last preceding University written answer shall become final.
9.	An appeal of an expedited grievance to arbitration mi.y be made only by UPTE in accordance with this section. Requests for arbit ution under the expedited grievance, Section F.2.e., of Article 8, Grievance Procedure must include a copy of the completed grievance form.
B.	DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Article, the terms:
1.	"GRI EVANT" means any employee covered by this contract who has a grievance or complaint (as defined by this Article);
2.	’WITNESS", for the purposes of release time, means any employee covered by this contract who is serving as a witness in a grievance proceeding;
3.	"EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVE" means any employee covered by this contract who is a designated union representative of UPTE, in accordance with the provisions of Article 2, Access; and
4.	“UPTE REPRESENTATIVE" means any person who is a non-university employee acting in the interest of or on behalf of UPTE.
5.	"THE PARTIES" means the University and
a.	the grievant; and/or
b,	the "UPTE representative" or the "employeeiispresentative" serving as the grievanfs representative.
C.	EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION
Union representation at the arbitration hearing may consist of up to two (2) representatives, with only one (1) of the two (2) representat ves being eligible for without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status. Only one (1) of these individuals may be designated as the employee advocate for the course of the hearing.
D.	SELECTION OF ARBITRATOR
Within forty-five (45) calendar days of the date of the appeal to arbitration, the arbitrator shall be selected using the following permanent panel proce dures:
1.	On a case by case basis, the parties may agree to the selection of any qualified and available person to serve as an arbitrator, \bsent such agreement, the parties may agree to the selection of an arbitrator fir rn their respective panel.
2.	In the event the parties cannot agree to an arbitral :>r, the parties shall select the names of seven (7) arbitrators from the appropriate panel, as provided in Section L.6., below, by blind lot. The parties shall then aLemately strike one (1) name each from the seven names. The first strike will be determined by a flip of a coin, and the last name remaining shall be the arbitrator.
3.	If both parties disagree with the arbitrator who hai> been selected, the process shall be repeated once in its entirety.
4.	A separate arbitrator shall be selected for each grie vance appealed to arbitration, unless the parties agree otherwise in writing.
7
5,	The parties may agree in writing to extend the forty-five (45) day limit for selecting the arbitrator. Failure to select the arbitrator within forty-five (45) calendar days, or to achieve a written extension of the time period, will render the appeal to arbitration ineligible for further processing and the University's Step 3 answer will be considered final.
6.	If UPTE initiates the selection process in writing to the University with a preferred arbitrator from the arbitration panel and there is no written University response by the deadline for selection of the arbitrator (45 days from UPTE's appeal to arbitration), then the UPTE choice shall be final unless UPTE initiates the selection process within fifteen (15) business days of the deadline for selection of the arbitrator. In such case, the University shall have fifteen (15) business days to respond to UPTE’s choice of an arbitrator and the period for scheduling the arbitration hearing shall be extended by ten (10) business days.
7.	All arbitrability disputes, substantive or procedural, shall be subject to arbitration under this Article 3, including disputes arising from University claims that UPTE has lost the right to pursue arbitration of a pending grievance because of untimely processing or that the grievance is ineligible for further processing.
8.	The process set forth herein to pursue an arbitrability hearing when the University claims that UPTE has failed to select an arbitrator in a timely manner shall be the exclusive process for such purpose, superceding and/or replacing any other claimed process.
9.	When the University refuses to proceed to arbitration on a grievance on the grounds that UPTE has failed to participate in the selection of arbitrators in a timely manner as required by Article 3, Section D.5., of the contract, UPTE will make a demand for arbitration of that issue in writing to the Office of the President within thirty (30) days of the postmark of the campus notification to the union that the case is ineligible for further processing.
E.	SCOPE OF ARBITRATION
1.	Unless there is an agreement by both parties to modify the scope of the hearing, the issue(s) to be heard by the arbitrator shall solely and in its entirety be restricted to the issue(s) stated by Step 3. Issues or allegations which were known or should have been known to either party but not introduced by the Step 3 process shall not be introduced by either party at the arbitration hearing, except as provided in Section E.2., below.
2.	When practicable, the University shall inform UPTE in writing of its intent to assert the issue of arbitrability prior to the selection of the arbitrator in its Acknowledgement of Receipt, according to A.8.b above. The issue(s) of arbitrability shall be resolved in a hearing prior to and separate from the hearing (if any) about the substantive facts and/or allegations in dispute, except as provided in Section E.3., below. In such case, the parties shall use the selection process described in Section 0. above to select two arbitrators. The first arbitrator wifi be selected to hear the issues of arbitrability and the second arbitrator will be selected to decide the merits of the case if the issues are determined to be arbitrable. Unless either party requests a full and complete arbitration proceeding on the arbitrability issue, the first arbitrator shall issue either a bench decision, or upon either party’s request, a written decision within seven (7) calendar days of the completion of the arbitrability hearing. In the event that the first arbitrator, as a result of the hearing referenced above determines a matter to be arbitrable, the first arbitrator shall have no authority to decide the issues pursuant to the merits of the case. A hearing on the merits of the case will be scheduled with the second arbitrator, unless the parties agree otherwise.
3.	If, following the University's acknowledgement of UPTE's appeal to arbitration in A.8.b, the University raises for the first time issue(s) of arbitrability a single hearing on the issue of arbitrability and the substantive facts will be held, unless the parties agree otherwise. If the arbitrator finds the grievance to be not arbitrable, the substantive facts of the case need not be heard and the grievance shall be denied. If the arbitrator finds in favor of arbitrability, the hearing shall proceed to the substantive issues raised.
8
4.	Section E.1. and Section E.2, above, shall not prevent the parties from agreeing in writing to combine the arbitrability hearing with the hearing on the merits of the case.
5.	If the union requests a postponement of the ; cheduled arbitration hearing following the University's raising issue(s) of aibitrability, the hearings on arbitrability and facts, if any, shall be separate, and the provisions of Section E.3. above, shall apply.
F.	ARBITRATION PROCEEDING
1.	The parties will attempt to agree on a location for tht, arbitration hearing.
2.	The arbitration hearing shall be closed to anyone otl ler than the participants in the
arbitration hearing, unless the parties otherwise agrta in writing.
3.	The arbitration hearing shall provide an opportunity for UPTE and the University to examine and cross-examine witnesses under oat \ or affirmation, and to submit relevant evidence.
4.	Settlement offers made any time during the Grievance and/or Arbitration Procedure shall not be introduced as evidence in tht arbitration hearing,
5.	Either or both parties may, at their discretion, file Uriels with the arbitrator. The order and time limits of briefing shall, on a case by cuse basis, be as agreed upon by the parties or as specified by the arbitrator. Sriefing time limits shall be extended by the Arbitrator upon the agreement of bclh parties.
6.	The arbitrator shall consider the evidence presented and render a written decision within thirty (30) calendar days of the close of the record of the hearing.
7.	In all cases appealed to arbitration pursuant to the terms of this Article and this Agreement, UPTE has the burden of initiating the stops in the procedure. With the exception of those cases in which the issue is I hat of actions taken by the University pursuant to Article 6 - Corrective Action, Discipline and Discharge, UPTE shall have the burden of proof. The burden of proof in cases in which the issue is that of actions taken by the University pursuant to Article 6 - Corrective Action, Discipline and Discharge, shatl be the University's.
8.	Prior to the hearing, the parties may endeavor to exchange the names of known witnesses and relevant materials to be introduced at ihe hearing.
G.	AUTHORITY OF THE ARBITRATOR
1.	The arbitrator's authority shall be limited to delerrr ining whether the University has violated the provision(s) of this Agreement. The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction or authority to add to, amend, modify, m llify or ignore in any way the provisions of this Agreement and shall not make any award which would, in effect, grant UPTE or the employee(s) any terms which were not obtained in the negotiation process.
2.	The arbitrator shall have the authority to subpoena documents and to require the attendance of witnesses upon the reasonable recuesof either party, but not upon his/her own motion.
3.	The expense of service and appearance fees, if any, '.hall be borne entirely by the party requesting the subpoena of witnesses and ea::h party shall, in advance of the hearing date, inform the other party of the identity of witnesses it subpoenaed.
4.	The arbitrator shatl have the obligation of assuring that all necessary facts and considerations are brought before her or him by 1he epresentatives of the parties at the hearing. In all respects he/she shall assure tl at the hearing is a fair one. The arbitrator shall be the sole judge of the relevancy and materiality of the evidence and testimony offered. The arbitrator may receive and consider evidence but shall give appropriate weight to any objections made. All documents to be considered by the arbitrator shall be filed at th ;s hearing, or within the posthearing time lines agreed to by the parties during the nearing.
9
H.	ARBITRATION REMEDIES
1.	No remedy by an arbitrator with respect to any grievance which shall be submitted to her/him shall in any case be made retroactive to a date earlier than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the filing of the Step 1 grievance, except for the correction of mathematical, calculation, recording or accounting errors relating to the payment of wages. For grievances involving the correction of mathematical, calculation, recording or accounting errors relating to the payment of wages, an award of an arbitrator shall not in any case be made retroactive to a date earlier than three (3) years prior to the initiation of the written grievance in Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure. Additionally, no remedy shall be provided for any period of time during the grievance and/or arbitration procedure for which an extension of time limits has been granted at the request of UPTE; any period of time between the date a hearing was originally scheduled to be held, and due to a request from UPTE to postpone or change the scheduled hearing, the rescheduled date of the hearing; or any time an employee was on strike.
2.	in any decision of a grievance appealed to arbitration involving retroactive payments, the appropriate University and UPTE representatives shall expeditiously determine the identity of the payees and the specific amount owed each payee. Such amount of payment shall be final and no employee or group of employees may subsequently grieve the amounts owed.
3.	Remedies involving monetary payment and/or credit shall be limited in their calculation to the utilization of the employee's actual and appropriate wage or benefit amount at the time of the violation and shall not include the awarding of interest or any other payment/credit unrelated to a University benefit amount or the employee's hourly wage.
4.	Upon the motion of either party, or at his or her own discretion, an arbitrator may retain jurisdiction in cases involving an award of retroactive monetary payment and/or credit.
5.	If the grievance is sustained in whole, or in part, the remedy shall not exceed restoring to the employee the pay, benefits or rights lost less any compensation from any source, including,0 but not limited to, Workers' Compensation, Unemployment Compensation or other employment.
I.	COST OF ARBITRATION
1.	The cost of the arbitrator and expenses of the hearing will be shared equally by the University and UPTE. If either party requests that a stenographic record of the hearing be made and/or transcripts of the stenographic record or a taped record be provided, the parties shall equally share the entire cost of such service and the cost of the provision of a transcript to each party and the arbitrator.
2.	In the event either party requests the cancellation or postponement of a scheduled arbitration proceeding which causes an arbitrator to impose a cancellation or postponement fee, the party requesting such cancellation or postponement shall bear the full cost of the cancellation/postponement fee. In the event the parties agree to settle or postpone the arbitration during the period of time in which the arbitrator will charge a cancellation/postponement fee, the parties will equally bear the cost of the fee, unless the parties agree otherwise.
J.	PAY STATUS
1.	The grievant, as defined in Article 8, Grievance Procedure, Section A.5.a., (one [1] grievant in a group grievance) shall be in a without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status at the arbitration hearing.
2.	The University and UPTE shall establish a reasonable schedule for witness(es)' testimony at the arbitration proceeding. Employee witnesses who appear at the arbitration hearing at the request of UPTE shall be in a without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status for the time spent actually giving testimony or waiting to testify in accordance with the established schedule. Every effort shall be made by UPTE to avoid the presentation of repetitive witnesses.
10
3.	Total release time for the grievant, employee reprt sentative and witness(es) for travel to/from the hearing and for participation in ;he hearing shall not exceed either their normally scheduled hours of work for the day(s) of the hearing or their actual participation in the hearing. Participants shall travel to/from the hearing via the most expeditious method of transportation available.
4.	Not more than one employee representative will b;> released in without-loss-of-straight- time-pay status for attendance at any one (■) arbitration hearing.
5.	The University shall not be responsible for any lodging, travel expenses or other expenses incurred by grievants, witnesses, employee or UPTE representatives with regard to the union's presentation in the arbitration hearing.
K.	EXPEDITED ARBITRATION
The parties may agree to use an expedited form of arbitration, to be agreed to by the parties and the arbitrator.
L.	ARBITRATION PANEL
1.	The parties will make an attempt to agree on the punel of thirty (30) arbitrators, with fifteen (15) on a Northern Panel, and fifteen (15) on a Southern Panel. Nothing shall preclude the parties from including an < rbitrator on both the northern and southern lists. If agreement cannot be reached on the names of the arbitrators on each list, the remaining number of arbilrators needed to complete a panel will be selected alternately by the parties. The party selecting first shall be determined by a flip of a coin.
2.	After one (1) year from the date the panel memberu were initially selected, and annually thereafter, each party shall have the righ: to eliminate up to one (1) arbitrator from the panel. A party exercising this right shall notify the other party in writing of the name of the arbitrator to be stricken fror ;i the panel.
3.	In replacing arbitrators who were eliminated from Ihe panel, the procedure in Section L.1. shall be used again, but any arbitrate r eliminated in Section L.2. above, may not be placed back on the panel until a: least one (1) year from the date on which such arbitrator was stricken.
4.	In the event one (1) vacancy in the panel of arbitrators occurs, other than the elimination of an Arbitrator by the parties pursuant a Section L.3., above, such vacancy may be filled by the parties within thirty (20) calendar days, using the procedures in Section L.1. and 2. above, if the partie:; agree that a replacement is necessary. In the event more than one vacancy in th ;i panel of arbitrators occurs, such vacancy shall be filled by the parties within thirty (30) calendar days by using the procedures in Section L.1. and 2. above, unlesu both parties agree that no replacement is necessary prior to the annual panel re .'lew.
5.	The northern list of arbitrators shall be used for arbi rations arising at the Davis, the Office of the President, Lawrence Berkeley Lclxjratory, Berkeley, San Francisco, Santa Cruz, and Merced locations, unless the parties agree to use an arbitrator from the southern panel. The southern list o'arbitrators shall be used for arbitrations arising at the Santa Barbara, Los Angele i, Irvine, Riverside, and San Diego locations, unless the parties agree to use an arbitrator from the northern panel.
6.	The Lists of Arbitrators are listed in Appendix C.
ARTICLE 4 CAMPUS CLOSURE
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	Consistent with its management rights, the University has the sole, non-grlevable right to curtail or shut down some or all of its activities, on a location-by-location basis, for periods of specific duration. By way of exar pie and not limitation, such curtailment periods may represent: opportunities for energy/cost savings; adjustments to reduce levels of work activity due □ transition periods in the
11
academic calendar; “seasonal" or “holiday" influences on scheduled work activities; the occurrence at or on University facilities of major public events; and/or the occurrence of emergency or “forces of nature" situations adversely affecting normal University operations.
2.	When feasible, the University shall provide UPTE and affected members of the bargaining unit with forty-five (45) calendar days advance notice of a closure, in the event an alleged violation of the notice is grieved/arbitrated, any remedy or arbitrator’s award or decision acknowledging improper notice shall be limited to an amount of back pay and/or reinstatement of benefits which would make employees whole for the number of days the notice was deficient.
B.	PAY STATUS
During a total or partial closure or curtailment of operations described in Section A., above, whether or not the University is able to anticipate such event, one or a combination of the following pay-status options may apply to affected employees.
1.	Employees may elect to use accumulated vacation leave during the closure period. Newly-employed unit members will be allowed to use accrued vacation even if the required six (6) continuous months or quadri-weekly cycles on pay status have not been completed. Employees without sufficient accrued vacation time will be allowed to use up to three (3) days vacation leave prior to actual accrual.
2.	Employees may elect to use accrued compensatory time to cover the scheduled time off or to offset the use of vacation time.
3.	Employees who do not use vacation or compensatory time off may elect to take a leave without pay during the closure. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 41, Vacation, and Article 36, Sick Leave, if an employee is in ieave-without-pay status due to a location closure which is three consecutive days or less in duration, such a full-time or part-time employee shall continue to accrue vacation and sick leave at his/her normal rate.
4.	Employees who do not select from Section B1„ 2., or 3., above or who do not qualify for Section B.1., 2., or 3., above, shall, for the period of time necessary, be placed in a Ieave-without-pay status. The hourly accrual provisions in Section B.3. above, related to location closure(s) shall also apply to employees who are placed in Ieave-without-pay status.
ARTICLE 5 COMPENSATION
A, YEAR ONE - ZONE COMPENSATION
1.	For year one (1) of this Agreement, the salary ranges for the HX Unit shall be a zone-based structure. A zone is a subdivision of the range establishing a minimum salary rate that corresponds to either years of continuous UC experience in the HX bargaining unit classification at the campus/hospital or continuous experience in the HX bargaining unit.
Pharmacist job family classifications shall be exempt from the zone compensation structure.
2.	The effective date of all range adjustments and salary increases described tn Sections A.4 and A.5 below, shall be the first day of the biweekly or monthly pay date nearest to and following the effective date of this Agreement. Payment date shall not be more than one-hundred twenty (120) calendar days after the effective date of this Agreement.
3,	Salary ranges and zones for each title at each location for Year One appear in Appendix A-1. Actual rates may vary due to rounding.
12
4.	Salary Increases
a.	Within-range general increases and/or markel increases will be provided as reflected in Appendix A-1.
b.	To be eligible for all Year One salary increeses, employees must have non-probationary, career status, and must be on pay status or on approved leave in the bargaining unit on the elfective date of the increase and on the date of the payout.
In addition, employees must have earned a raling of satisfactory or better performance on the most recent performanc evaluation preceding the effective date of the increase.
5.	Zone Movement
a.	Eligible employees whose salaries fall belov the proper zone in their salary range after receiving any general and 'or market increases, shall have their salaries adjusted to the proper zoi'e, as determined by local practice.
b.	If the employee's performance is rated as lesrs than satisfactory in the most recent performance evaluation, then the University may determine not to move the employee to the next zone.
6.	Increases Above the Maximum of the Range
Employees within the salary range who are not eligible for the full amount of the within range increase shall be compensated as follows:
a.	The employee's individual salary rate shall be raised to the maximum of the range and the amount above the range shall be paid in a one time, non-base building lump sum and coded in the pa. roll system as covered compensation, or
b.	The employee's individual salary rate shall be ra ied to the maximum of the range and the amount above the range shall t s paid as a base building increase above the maximum of the range, or
c.	The maximum of the classification range shall be increased to encompass the full value of the increase the employee wo ,ild have received had the employee not been at the top or near the top of thprevious range.
d.	The selection of option a, b, or c above shall be at the non-grievable, non-arbitrable discretion of the campus or medical cenl?r.
7.	Reclass if! cat! on/Promotion
Upon upward reclassification and/or promotion during year one, an employee shall receive a salary increase of at least five percent (!>%) or to the minimum of the range of the new classification, whichever is greater.
8.	Order of Increases
If more than one salary adjustment takes place on I e same date, actions occur in the following order:
a.	salary range adjustment
b.	general salary increase
c.	equity adjustments
d,	zone placement
e.	salary action resulting from promotion, reclassification, transfer, or
demotion.
In the event an individual's salary remains below the row range minimum after the implementation of all base building increases, I* ?> or her salary will be increased to the new range minimum.
13
B.	YEAR 2 - JULY 1, 2007 TRANSITION TO STEP COMPENSATION
1.	The University will implement a step structure beginning in Year 2 of the contract for all career and limited status employees (including those in probationary status) as outlined in Appendix A-2 of this agreement. Actual rates may vary due to rounding.
2.	As outlined below, HX employees will have their individual salaries increased by a general salary increase, equity increase(s), if any, and then placed on the matching step; otherwise the next higher step.
3.	For HX Bargaining Unit employees at Student Health Centers, funding for all of the above identified increases shall be provided consistent with the State Budget Act as finally adopted.
4.	Order of increases
If more than one salary adjustment takes place on the same date, actions occur in the following order;
a.	salary range adjustment
b.	general salary increases
c.	equity adjustments, if any
d.	placement on steps
e.	salary action resulting from promotion, reclassification, transfer, or demotion.
5.	In the event an individual's salary remains below the new range minimum after the implementation of all base building increases, his or her salary will be increased to the new range minimum.
6.	Increases Above the Maximum of the Range
Employees within the salary range who are not eligible for the full amount of the within range increase shall be compensated as follows:
a.	The employee’s individual salary rate shall be raised to the maximum of the range and the amount above the range shall be paid in a one time, non-base building lump sum and coded in the payroll system as covered compensation, or
b.	The employee’s individual salary rate shall be raised to the maximum of the range and the amount above the range shall be paid as a base building increase above the maximum of the range, or
c.	The maximum of the classification range shall be increased to encompass the full value of the increase the employee would have received had the employee not been at the top or near the top of the previous range.
d.	The selection of option a, b, or c above shall be at the non-grievable, non-arbitrable discretion of the campus or medical center.
C.	YEAR 3 - JULY 1,2008 STEP COMPENSATION
1.	Salary Range and Equity Adjustments
Salary ranges and rates for Year 3 appear in Appendix A-3. Actual rates may vary due to rounding.
2.	Step Increases
Employees who have earned a rating of satisfactory or better on their most recent performance evaluation preceding the effective date of the increase, will receive a minimum of one step increase in accordance with local merit review programs. In no case will employees be paid above the maximum of the range.
14
For employees at the range max, the Campus or Me licai Centers shall have the sole, non-grievable discretion to provide a one time, r on-base building lump sum, coded in the payroll system as covered compensation
3.	For HX Bargaining Unit employees at Student Healt i Centers, funding for all of the above identified increases shall be provided consistent with the State Budget Act as finally adopted.
4.	Order of Increases
If more than one salary adjustment takes place on the same date, actions occur in the following order:
a.	salary range adjustment
b.	equity adjustments, if any
C.	step increases
d.	salary action resulting from promotion, reclassification, transfer, or
demotion.
D.	YEARS 4 & 5 - JULY 1,2009 & 2010 STEP COMPENSATION
Percentage increases will be subject to re-opener negotiafons in the Spring of 2009. The following provisions outline the framework for the compensation model for Years 4 and 5 of the agreement.
1.	Salary Range and Equity Adjustments
Range increases will be subject to re-opener bargaining.
2.	Step Increases
Step movements/increases will be subject to re-opener bargaining.
3.	Order of Increases
If more than one salary adjustment takes place on thi i same date, actions occur in the following order:
a.	salary range adjustment
b.	equity adjustments, if any
c.	step increases
d.	salary action resulting from promotion, ^Classification, transfer, or
demotion.
E.	ANNUAL MARKET EQUITY LOCAL DISCUSSIONS
1.	Upon the written request of the Union to the loc :il labor relations office, the University and UPTE agree to meet at least once a year, no later than March 1" of each contract year (unless the parties agree otherwise), tor purposes of engaging in a labor-management meeting, to be hel :l locally, and for purposes of exchanging ideas and discussing market salary equity issues for the HX Unit. There will be no such meetings in March 2007 or March 2009 due to scheduled bargaining sessions.
2.	UPTE shall submit the agenda items to be discussed fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the date of the meeting.
3.	One bargaining unit employee will be released in <i without-loss-of-straight-time pay status to attend scheduled meetings, provided UPTE has given the University at least fourteen (14) calendar days’ notice of hi NTter selection. UPTE may request, and the University may allow, additional unit employees to attend the meetings. Additional attendees may be placed in ;> without-loss-of-straight-time pay status at the sole, non-grievable discretion ol the Un' /ersity.
15
F.	LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY
In the event that the University resumes work that was previously performed by HX employees at LBNL, the parties will meet and confer over wage rates to be implemented for employees at LBNL.
G,	OTHER INCREASES
1.	The University may increase salary rates, salary ranges, shift differentials, on-call rates and/or extend the coverage of such rates for selected classes at selected locations.
2.	The University may adjust zones and/or steps during the life of the agreement.
3.	The University shall notice UPTE headquarters a minimum of 30 days prior to implementing the adjustments referenced in G.1 and G.2 above.
4.	Union and or employee requests for market equity review shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate local Office of Labor Relations and shall include:
a.	The specific name(s) & classifications of the individuals to be reviewed;
b.	The data upon which the equity adjustment is being requested.
The University shall notice UPTE headquarters a minimum of 30 days prior to implementing adjustments that may granted pursuant to employee requests.
Decisions to either grant or deny market equity increases shall be at the sole, non-grievable discretion of the University.
5.	Ye^rs 2, 3, 4 and 5 Reclassification and Promotion - Upon upward reclassification and/or promotion, an employee shall receive a salary increase of at least four percent (4%), then to next highest step (if between steps) or new range minimum.
H.	BONUS AND INCENTIVE AWARDS
The program that was formerly known as the Incentive Award Program (IAP), has been abolished at all campus locations and the 0.5% funding of this program has been rolled into the general increase identified in Appendix A and Sections A - C above.
The University shall have the sole, non-grievable right to establish, continue, modify or abolish campus/hospital/laboratory incentive award programs.
ARTICLE 6
CORRECTIVE ACTION, DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
Corrective Action is an action designed to improve conduct or performance, which does not involve an adverse impact on rights, pay, or benefits. Discipline is an action imposed on a non-probationary employee when corrective action has proven ineffectual or when the employee's misconduct or failure to perform satisfactorily is serious enough to warrant discipline. The University has the authority to discharge or to take other appropriate disciplinary action against a non-probationary employee for just cause.
B.	TYPE OF ACTIVITY
The University may use an oral reprimand or counseling memorandum as corrective action. Discipline may involve a written warning, suspension without pay for up to five (5) working days without prior notice, suspension beyond five (5) working days with notice, salary reduction, demotion for failure to meet performance standards, as defined in Section C., below, or discharge. Employees who are suspended without pay for up to five (5) working days, and who wish to contest the suspension, must grieve within the time limits established by the grievance procedure of this Agreement. Corrective actions are not subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures of this Agreement.
16
C.	DEMOTION
The University may demote an employee to a lower classification, with concurrent reassignment to work of tesser duties and responsibilities., based on a demonstrated failure to meet the performance standards of the higher cia iisification. Such action shall take place only after reasonable attempts to correct the deficient performance have failed. Demotion shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures.
D.	INVESTIGATORY LEAVE
The University may place an employee on investigatory lea"e with pay in order to review or investigate allegations of conduct which, in the University’s view, would warrant relieving the employee immediately from all work duties. An investigatory leave with pay shall not be considered corrective action or discipline as defined in this Article.
E.	NOTICE
1.	When the University intends to suspend for more than five (5) working days, reduce an employee's salary for more than thirty (< <)) working days, demote, or discharge an employee, written notice of its intent si* all be given to the employee. Such notice shall be made either by delivery of the notice to the employee in person, or by placing the notice of intent in the Unit i d States mail with first class postage paid in an envelope addressed to the employee at his/her last known home address. In either case, a copy of the notice of intent shall be sent by United States mail, first class postage paid, to UPTE, It shall be the responsibility of the employee to inform the University in writing of any change of home address. Whether delivery is made in person or by nail, the notice of intent shall contain a proof of service indicating the date on w rich the notice of intent was personally delivered or mailed. Such date of person ill delivery or mailing shall be the "date of issuance" of the notice of intent.
2.	The notice shall:
a.	Inform the employee of the action intended, 1 he reason for the disciplinary action and the effective date of the action;
b.	Include a copy of the charge and material upcn which the charge is based; and
c.	Inform the employee of the right to respond a nd to whom to respond within the time limit in Section F., below, either ora ly or in writing in accordance with Section F., below.
F.	EMPLOYEE RESPONSE
1.	The employee shall be entitled to respond, orally or in writing, to the notice of intent described in Section E., above. If the written notice of intent is delivered in person to the employee, the employee's response must be received within ten (10) calendar days from the date of issuance, in accordance with instructions given by the University in the written notice. If the wiiitten notice of intent is mailed to the employee and UPTE, the employee's response must be received within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of the US tostal Service postmark.
2.	After review of the employee's timely response, if any, the University shall notify the employee of any action to be taken. Such action to be taken may not include discipline more severe than that described in the notice of intent; however, the University may reduce such discipline without the issuance of a further notice of intent. When such action includes a suspension w ihout pay for five (5) days or longer, a copy of the letter of discipline/suspension will be sent concurrently to UPTE.
G.	PERSONNEL RECORDS
1.	A counseling memorandum may be placed in the err izrioyee's personnel records.
2.	A copy of a written warning given or mailed to an employee shall be placed in the employee's personnel records. The University agrees that written warning shall be accompanied by a proof of service. Written wai .ring shall be destroyed after
17
two (2) consecutive years during which there have been no further written warnings issued to the employee.
3.	There shall be no charge for the first copy of the contents of the employee's personnel file.
H.	REPRESENTATION
1.	A non-probationary employee shall have the right of representation at any scheduled investigatory meeting, the outcome of which may be a disciplinary act of written warning, suspension without pay, demotion or discharge. The University shall advise an employee of any scheduled investigatory meeting the outcome of which may be a written warning, suspension without pay, disciplinary demotion or discharge. An employee may request a representative of the employee's choice other than a University employee who has been designated as supervisory, managerial, or confidential to be present when there is reason to believe that a meeting may result in disciplinary action as defined above. If the employee’s preferred representative is not available to attend a meeting scheduled by the University, the employee shall arrange for an alternative representative for the meeting. If no alternative representative can be found for the scheduled meeting, the University may reschedule the meeting within eight (8) calendar days, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
2.	The term "meeting" does not include the occasion in which the University only presents an employee with written confirmation of the results of the prior meeting referenced in Section H.1., above.
ARTICLE 7
UNION DUES AND AGENCY FEE DEDUCTIONS
A.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
1.	UPTE-CWA shall establish the monthly amount it requires for union members’ dues and initiation fees, and the amount required of unit members for agency fees. UPTE shall certify to the University in writing the monthly union dues and agency fee amounts, and the amount of members’ initiation fees. The amount of the agency fee shall not exceed the monthly dues that are payable by members of UPTE. The University agrees to deduct from the pay of represented employees the amount of agency fees and dues UPTE has certified in writing.
2.	UPTE may change the amounts to be deducted from unit employees’ pay once per calendar year. Any annual changes in the amounts to be deducted for UPTE dues or agency fees shall be certified to the University, in writing, at least forty-five (45) calendar days prior to the effective date of such change. All actual costs associated with changing the dues/agency fee amount (machine, programming, etc.) shall be paid by UPTE, following discussion with UPTE.
3.	Dues/agency fee deductions shall be monthly, or, where applicable, more frequently, in accordance with University payroll procedures in place at the time the deduction is made, unless there are insufficient net earnings in that period to cover said deduction.
B.	DUES AND FEES
The payment of fair share fees and union dues through payroll deduction will continue even if the collective bargaining agreement expires.
1.	Union Dues
a.	The University will deduct from the pay of union members who have submitted a written individual authorization fo’ the deduction of union dues, the monthly amount certified by the Union io be the dues required for the employee's membership in the Union. The employee’s authorization must be provided on a form agreed upon by the parties.
b.	Dues deductions shall be effective following the University's receipt of the authorization form and completion of the appropriate programming and/or payroll changes.
18
c.	An employee may at any time cancel his/her authorization for payroll dues deduction by presenting her or his written equest for termination and cancellation to the designated University offic ■!. The University will send a copy of the written request for cancellation of dues deduction to UPTE.
2.	Agency Fees
a.	Employees who do not pay union dues si i all pay agency fees as a condition of employment. The amount of the ;ee shall be deducted by the University from the wages or salary of the emf ioyee and paid to UPTE.
b.	Employees who are conscientious objectors to the payment of agency fees must apply for objector status with UPTE
1)	UPTE shall determine the validity of :he employee's status as a conscientious objector.
2)	If UPTE agrees to the objector status of the employee, it shall provide monthly to the University, p'oof of payments made to Charitable Organizations.
C.	PROCESSING PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR DUES AND l:EES
1.	For each dues/fee deduction check submitted to UTPE, each campus/hospital/laboratory shall deduct from the tot ill dues amount remitted, an administrative fee of $.07 per employee for who due; i deductions are being made in addition to $10.00 for each check remitted. The se costs will continue to be charged to UPTE on an ongoing basis.
2.	Each campus/hospital/laboratory shall remit to UPTE, in the form of a check to an address designated by UPTE, an amount representing the duesffees deductions less any reduction(s) referenced in Section C.1. abo/e. Accompanying the check shall be a standard electronic and printed deduction eport, which shall contain by campus/hospital/laboratory, by local number, an alphabetical listing of the UPTE unit members for whom payroll deductions were m<ide. The report shall include the employee identification number, employee mime, bargaining unit code, campus code, employee within unit salary, and iimount withheld. Any costs associated with changing the deduction report referenced above shall be fully paid by UPTE. The report shall be provided electronically via the FTP site.
D.	CORRECTION OF ERRORS
1.	If the University fails to make appropriate authorized payroll dues or fee deductions, or any part thereof, the University shall c Direct the deduction amounts within thirty (30) days of notice from the Union.
2.	If the University’s error resulted in deductions less han the correct amount, the University shall make the additional required deductions to make up the difference between the actual and correct amounts in accordance with current payroll policy regarding additional deductions. However, additions deductions shall not exceed two times the normal dues amount in any given pay । lerioci.
3.	If the error results in payment of more than the corre i:t amount and the Union has received the funds, the Union shall reimburse the err ployees accordingly.
E.	OTHER DEDUCTIONS
Payroll deductions shall be made for UPTE-sponsored programs pursuant to the provisions of the University’s Accounting Manual requirements. For insured benefit programs, the section of the Accounting Manual entitled " iipecial Regulations for NonUniversity Insured Benefit Program" applies. For other than insured benefit programs the section of the Accounting Manual entitled "Employee Organ! nations" applies.
F.	INDEMNIFICATION
It is specifically agreed that the University assumes no oblig iition other than that specified in Section A., above, or liability, financial or otherwise, arisir:g out of the provisions of this Article. UPTE shall inform the University when the amount cif the monthly dues changes.
19
Such notice should be sent in time to provide for appropriate programming. Further, UPTE hereby agrees that it will reimburse the University for any cost and indemnify and hold the University harmless from any claims, actions, or proceedings by any person or entity, arising from deductions made by the University pursuant to this Article.
ARTICLE 8 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
1.	A grievance is a written complaint by an individual employee, a group of employees, or UPTE that the University has violated a specific provision of this Agreement. The University shall not have the right to use the grievance procedure.
2.	No employee shall be subject to reprisal for using or participating in the grievance procedure of this Agreement.
3.	Filing
a.	All grievances must be filed with the campus/hospital/laboratory Labor Relations office at the campus that employs the grievant within the time frames specified in this Article, on a form agreed to by the parties (see Appendix D). If the grievance is for more than one (1) employee, all individuals adversely affected will be identified on the grievance form by UPTE to the extent UPTE knows who the affected employees are at the time of filing.
b.	The grievance form must be signed and dated by the employee(s) or the employee’s representative upon submission to the University. Union grievances must be signed by the UPTE President or designee. UPTE will identify designee(s) in writing to the University.
c.	The grievance form (see Appendix D) shall be furnished to the employee by either UPTE or the University designee, although failure of a University Representative to provide a grievance form upon request shall not constitute cause for an extension of the time lines for filing, nor shall the employee of UPTE be able to grieve the University’s failure to provide a grievance form.
1)	Only one subject matter shall be covered in any one grievance. A formal grievance must identity the specific Article(s) and Section(s) of this Agreement alleged to have been violated; describe the action(s) which allegedly violated the identified Article(s) and Section(s), together with the date(s) of the action(s); and describe the remedy requested.
2)	Receipt of the grievance shall be acknowledged in writing by the University as soon as practicable following receipt, and sent to the non work address listed on the grievance form, if the grievance is incomplete or does not identify the information required in Section A.3.C.I. above, the University will advise the representative to complete the information within seven (7) days of the date of the acknowledgement. The provision of information does not in any way extend the original thirty (30) days to file the grievance.
3)	For the initial filing of a grievance, the date filed shall be the date received. However, if the grievance is m.JIed, the date of the US Postal Service postmark shall be considered the date filed. For grievance appeals and responses, the date of issuance shall be the date hand-delivered, or the date of the US Postal Service postmark, if mailed. Additionally, a grievance may be filed by facsimile, if a signed hard copy is received by the University within five (5) business days. The date and the time registered by the University's facsimile machine shall constitute the official date of receipt. If the registered date on the facsimile falls outside the
20
campus's business hours, the following business day shall constitute the official date of receipt.
4.	No remedy shall exceed restoring to the grievant the jiay, benefits or rights lost as a result of the violation of the contract, less any inc :>me earned from any other source including, but not limited to, workers' cc mpensation, or any other employment.
5.	Terms/Definitions
For the purposes of this Article, the terms:
a,	"grievant* means any eligible employee covered by this contract who has a grievance or complaint (as defined by this Agreement);
b.	"other grievance representative" means ary person representing an employee covered by this contract, other than an UPTE-designated employee representative or an UPTE representative, in the resolution of his/her grievance other than a person wh< has been designated as supervisory, managerial, or confidential;
c.	"UPTE-designated employee representativ>' means any employee covered by this contract who is a designated union representative of UPTE, in accordance with the provisions of Ar ide 2, Section C.;
d.	"UPTE representative* means any persor who is a non-university employee designated by UPTE to act in the interest of or on behalf of UPTE;
e.	"the parties" means the University and
1)	the "grievant(s)", when the grievant^:) is self-represented or is represented by an individual, as defined in Section A.5.b. above; or
2)	the "UPTE representative" or the "UPTE-designated employee representative" when the grievant(n) is represented by an individual, as defined in Section A.5.d. or Section A.5.c. above; or
3)	UPTE, when UPTE is itself the grievanl.
f.	"witness* means any employee who is servinri as a witness in a grievance proceeding; for the purposes of release time, said employee must be covered by this contract.
B.	EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION
A grievant shall have the right to be represented at all step: i of ihe grievance procedure by an UPTE representative or an UPTE-designated employee representative, or any other one person of the grievant’s choice other than a University employee who has been designated as supervisory, managerial, or confidential.
C.	TIME LIMITS
1.	Other than the time limits for the initial Step 1 filing ca grievance, the time limits as specified in this article may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties. Extensions must be in writing and must be signed by the parties in advance. The parties may mutually agree to skip any steps of the g fevance procedure. Such an agreement must be in writing and must be signed by -Uie parties.
2.	Deadlines that fall on a day that is not a regular busir ass day will automatically be extended to the next business day.
3.	If a grievance is not appealed to the next step of the procedure within applicable time limits, and an extension has not been agreed io in advance, the grievance will be considered resolved on the basis of the Iasi University response to the grievance and shall be considered ineligible for furthe r appeal.
21
4.	Request That Grievance Be Placed In Abeyance - Should the grievant and/or UPTE make a request that the grievance be placed in abeyance for any reason, the period of abeyance shall not exceed ninety (90) days, except in cases of
' sexual harassment where it shall be one hundred-eighty (180) days. Failure by UPTE to reactivate the grievance within the ninety (90) day time limit, except in the case of sexual harassment where it shatl be one hundred-eighty (180) days, following agreement by the parties that it be held in abeyance will render the grievance ineligible for arbitration and the last preceding University written answer shall become final.
D.	GRIEVANTS WHO HAVE RESIGNED
Grievants who voluntarily resign or retire their employment with the University shall have their pending grievances immediately withdrawn and will not benefit by any subsequent settlement or disposition of any individual, union, or group grievance.
However, if the group or union grievance is related to the implementation of a compensation provision negotiated in a UC/UPTE Agreement, the grievance may be continued if it has moved to Step 2 before the date of the employees' resignation or retirement. The foregoing provision shall not apply to LBNL.
E.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - INFORMAL REVIEW
Before commencing the formal grievance procedure, an individual employee, or group of employees, with or without their representative, may first attempt to resolve informally the grievance with the immediate supervisor.
F.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE - FORMAL REVIEW
1.	Stepl;
a.	All grievances (individual, group, or union) must be filed either by U.S. mail or hand delivery, and received by the Labor Relations Office at the campus/hospital/laboratory which employs the gnevant(s) within thirty (30) calendar days after the date on which the employee or UPTE knew or could be expected to know of the event or action giving rise to the grievance. Informal attempts of settlement to resolve shall not extend time limits including the initial thirty (30) day filing limit.
b.	Grievances received after the filing deadline will be processed solely for the purposes of determining whether the grievance was untimely. Any formal grievance which is not received in accordance with Section F.1., or this section, shall be reviewed only in accordance with the review procedures in Section Q.
c.	University Review:
1)	The University's written response will be issued to the grievant and the representative, if any, within fifteen (15) calendar days after the formal grievance is filed. If the response is not issued within this time limit, or if the grievance is not resolved at Step 1, the grievance may proceed to Step 2.
2)	Resolution of the grievance at Step 1 or earlier, although final, shall not be precedent-setting.
d.	Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution Procedures:
1.	An employee alleging sexual harassment may elect to substitute a campus/hospital/laboratory Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution Procedure for Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure. An employee who elects to use the Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution Procedure may return to the grievance procedure only if . they filed a grievance within the 30-day time limit for filing. An employee who elects to resume the regular grievance procedure in place of the Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution Procedure shall do so by sending written notice to the University. The
22
University's Step 1 Grievance respon ie w'l be issued within fifteen (15) calendar days after the notice i:i received by the designated University official, if the second step ci the grievance is not invoked by the grievant or UPTE, the University will hold the grievance in abeyance for upto one hundred-eight(180) days.
2.	Grievances that allege a violation involving sexual harassment may, at the grievant’s option, enter the grievance procedure at Step 2.
3.	If no report issues from the sexual harassment process or the employee elects to use the sexual harassment process and for any reason the grievance is in abeyance for more than one hundredeighty (180) days, the case will be considered withdrawn by the grievant, unless expressly confirmed in writing to be in abeyance. Any request for extension of the abei'ance will be subject to new deadlines pursuant to this Section.
2.	Step 2:
a.	If the grievance is not resolved at Step 1, the grievant or the Union may proceed to Step 2 by filing a written appeal w th hie Labor Relations Office within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date t ie written response is issued or, if not issued, is due.
b.	Unless the parties agree otherwise, the desiccated University local official shall convene a meeting with the grie rantfs) and the grievant’s representative, if any, to attempt to resolve the grievance. The meeting shall be convened no later than fifteen (15) calendar days following receipt of the appeal to Step 2. During the Step ? meeting, the parties shall discuss information and contentions relative t<i the grievance.
c.	During the Step 2 process, the parties may egree in writing to amend the alleged violations stated in the original grievar ce.
d.	If requested by the grievant, a second UPTE representative may participate in the Step 2 meeting. In tt 3 event a second UPTE representative attends, only one representative may actively participate in the grievance meeting, and the University shall pay release time for only one representative.
e.	If a grievance that alleges a violation of Article 6 - Corrective Action, Discipline and Discharge only is not satisf,ictorily resolved at Step 2, UPTE may appeal directly to arbitration in iccurdance with Article 3 -Arbitration Procedure.
f.	A written decision shall be issued within fifteen (15) calendar days following the Step 2 meeting, or receipt of the Step 2 appeal if it is agreed that no meeting will be held.
3.	Step 3:
a.	All grievances that are not satisfactorily re solved at Step 2 may be appealed to Step 3. The appeal must be file:i with the Director of Labor Relations in the Office of the President within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date the University’s Step 2 written answer was issued or, if no University answer was issued, within fifteen (1 !5) calendar days of the date the University’s answer was due.
b.	The Step 3 appeal shall identify all unresolved issues, alleged violations and remedies, and shall be signed and daind by the grievant or their representative. The subject of the grievance as stated at Step 2 shall constitute the sole and entire subject matter of the appeal to Step 3.
c.	The Office of the President Office of Labor Relutivns official shall issue the University's written answer to a Step 3 appeiil within thirty (30) calendar days of the receipt of the appeal. The answer "rill be issued to the grievant when self-represented, or to the employee’s representative.
23
d,	By mutual agreement between the University and UPTE, Step 3 may also be the first step in the Grievance Procedure when UPTE is filing a grievance on behalf of employees at more than one location. Such a grievance must be filed within thirty (30) calendar days of the action that gave rise to the grievance and follow all other requirements of Section A.3 Filing above.
4.	Appeals to Arbitration
if an appeal to arbitration is not post marked or hand delivered within thirty (30) calendar days of the issuance of the University’s Step 3 answer, Section C. of this article Shall apply.
G.	UNION GRIEVANCES
UPTE shall have the right to present grievances under this prccedure on behalf of an individual employee, on behalf of a group of employees, or on behalf of itself. It shall be the Union’s responsibility to inform an employee that it is bringing a grievance.
H.	GROUP GRIEVANCE
A group grievance is defined as a grievance that covers more than one employee, and that involves like circumstances and facts. A group grievance must be so identified on the grievance form at Step 1. if an employee wishes to withdraw from a group grievance represented by UPTE, the employee shall notify UPTE. UPTE shall in turn notify the University in writing if the employee is to be withdrawn.
I.	CONSOLIDATION OF GRIEVANCES
Grievances of two or more employees, as well as multiple grievances by or related to the same employee, or which relate to the same incident, issue, alleged violation, facts, or course of conduct, may be consolidated. Consolidation or severance of grievances shall occur by mutual written agreement.
J.	OFFERS OF SETTLEMENT
Settlement offers made at any stage of this procedure, including informal resolution, shall not be introduced as evidence in subsequent steps, and shall not be precedent setting.
K.	RETROACTIVITY
Settlement of grievances may or may not be retroactive as equities of a particular case may demand. In any case where it is determined that the settlement shall be applied retroactively, except for the correction of mathematical, calculation, recording or accounting errors relating to the payment of wages, the maximum period of retroactivity allowed shall not in any case be made retroactive to a date earlier than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the initiation of the written grievance in Step 1.
L.	EXCLUSIVE PROCEDURE
The Grievance Procedure set out in this Article shall be exclusive and shall replace any other grievance procedure for adjustment of any disputes arising from the alleged violation of this Agreement. Unless otherwise indicated within this Agreement, any previous grievance procedure or other procedure in existence or adopted by the University shall not apply to employees covered by this Agreement for any purposes whatsoever.
M.	RELEASE TIME AND PAY STATUS FOR GRit’VANTS, EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES AND/OR WITNESSES
1.	University-Convened Meetings
a.	If the University convenes a meeting involving the parties to a grievance for the purposes of resolving the grievance and/or completing the steps of the Grievance Procedure, the grievant(s), witness(es), if any, and UPTE-designated employee representatives eligible to attend such meeting
24
pursuant to this article and Article 2 - Acct ss, Section C. shall be in without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status during I he meeting provided:
1.	Such meeting occurs during the regularly scheduled hours of work of the grievant(s), UPTE-designated emplO|<ee representative, and/or witness(es); and advance request is mads and approval is received from the supervisor of the grievant(s), t ie witness(es), and/or the UPTE-designated employee representative. Approval to attend shall be made on an operational needs basis and shall not be unreasonably denied.
2.	A grievant or the representative may request the availability of bargaining unit employee witnesses for University-convened grievance meetings. The availability' of bargaining unit employee witnesses shall be determined by their immediate supervisors) on the basis of operational needs, and such requests shall not be denied unreasonably. Witnesses shal be in a without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status if the information they provide pertains to the subject of the grievance and the criteria enumerated above (Section M.1.a. and Section M.1.b. below) are met. Grievants and UPTE agree that every effort shall be made t :> avoid the presentation of repetitive witnesses and the absence of t ay or all witnesses shall not require the meeting to be recessed or poiitponed.
b.	The University is not responsible for any travel or lodging expenses or any other expenses incurred by the representative, grievant or union witnesses.
c.	Paid release time for UPTE designated empltyee representatives for purposes other than University convened meetings shall be provided in accordance with Article 2 - Access.
N.	EXCLUSION OF LIMITED APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEE i> AND PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
The retention or release of limited appointment employees e nd probationary employees or the non-scheduling of per diem employees, if applicable, is at the sole discretion of the University, and shall not be subject to Article 8 - Grievance Procedure or Article 3 -Arbitration Procedure of this Agreement.
O.	OTHER REPRESENTATION
Grievants may choose a representative other than an UPTE representative for purposes of grievance representation and adjustment. In the event the University is involved in the resolution of a grievance from a grievant or group of grievan I s who are self-represented or represented by someone other than an UPTE representath e:
1.	The University shall provide UPTE with a copy of the grievance and the proposed resolution, indicating die grievant or grievants have ct :isen a representative other than UPTE.
2,	UPTE shall have ten (10) calendar days from the date the University provides the material referenced above in which to comment ii writing on the proposed resolution.
3.	The University shall not implement the proposed resolution of the grievance until timely receipt and review of UPTE’s written comments, if any.
4.	The resolution of grievances presented by someone other than an UPTE representative shall be consistent with the terms of thi i. Agreement.
P.	GRIEVANCE FILE
Records involving the processing of an employee’s grievance, such as the grievance form, step appeals/responses, and settlement documents, will be kept in a file separate from the employee’s personnel file. It is not the intent of this section to exclude from the
25
employee's personnel file final disciplinary action documents, including those that result from a settlement agreement.
Q.	REVIEW OF GRIEVANCES CLOSED FOR PROCEDURAL DEFECTS
When the University determines a grievance is ineligible for further processing due to procedural defects, including but not limited to timeliness, UPTE may make a written appeal to thfj Office of the President Labor Relations within thirty (30) calendar days of the postmark of the notification to the grievant(s). This appeal is solely limited to a review of the procedural issue(s). If the Office of the President denies this appeal UPTE may appeal the issue of the closure of the grievance directly to arbitration per Article 3, Arbitration, within thirty (30) calendar days of the issuance of the denial of the appeal.
ARTICLE 9
HEALTH AND SAFETY
A.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
1.	Within the overall University responsibility to provide medical care, the University shall make reasonable attempts to furnish and maintain in safe working condition the workplace and equipment required, in order that employees within the bargaining unit might carry out the duties of their positions.
2.	UPTE and the University agree that exposure to risks from the patient populations the University treats is inherent in employment. The University shall make reasonable attempts to provide bargaining unit employees with such equipment, methods, practices, processes and procedures, as are necessary under applicable law to afford a working environment as safe and healthful as the nature of employment reasonably permits.
3.	An employee may request an ergonomic evaluation of their work station. The University will provide a response to the employee within thirty (30) calendar days after the ergonomic evaluation report is submitted. The response shall include the action(s) to be taken, if any.
B.	ASSIGNMENTS
An employee shall not be assigned to any task abnormally dangerous or hazardous at the employee's place of employment. An abnormally hazardous or dangerous task shall be defined as those tasks, the dangers or hazards of which are identifiably greater than the dangers or hazards inherent to the usual performance of a given job. In the event an employee within the bargaining unit regards an assigned task as abnormally dangerous the employee shall notify the immediate supervisor of the claim that the task assigned is abnormally dangerous. In attempting to resolve the employee’s claim, the supervisor or the employee may contact the appropriate Environmental Health & Safety I Safety personnel at the location. The supervisor shall attempt to make workplace task performance and/or task assignment changes consistent with health and safety considerations and the availability of additional or alternate personnel. The supervisor may direct the employee to perform the task, or may assign the affected employee to other available work consistent with the work usually performed by the employee.
C.	RELATED GRIEVANCES
1.	If th© matter is not resolved to the satisfaction of the employee and/or the employee carries out the task, the employee may later file a grievance in accordance with the grievance procedure of this Agreement. If the employee unreasonably refuses to perform the task, the employee may be subject to discipline.
2.	Any grievance filed by an employee alleging the assignment of an abnormally hazardous or dangerous task shall include a statement containing all facts, including time, place of incident, name of persons involved, type of object or substance likely to cause injury, and a description of the likely injury which might have resulted from the assignment of such task. In addition, the grievance shall contain the employee’s suggested resolution for preventing the illness, injury and/or other hazards the employee alleges to be associated with the assigned task.
26
3.	If, as a result of the filing of a grievance relative to a > abnormally dangerous or hazardous task assignment, the University and UPTE ; igree as to the existence of such abnormally hazardous or dangerous assignment, the University shall attempt to correct such a situation within a reasonable time and utilizing such funds as may be specifically budgeted for the particuia efforts.
4.	The University's ability to comply with the provisions ot this Article is subject to the availability of budgeted funds for the accomplishment :rf such actions which may be necessary in order for the University to meet its obligations under this Article and/or pursuant to any settlement, award, and/or arbitration decision rendered pursuant to a grievance/ arbitration related to the pr ^visions of this Agreement and Article. The availability of such specifically budgeted and available funds shall be a contingency upon which the University’s compliance with a settlement award, arbitrator’s decision, and/or order of enforceme nt of such decision relative to a grievance or arbitration related to this Article shall :ie dependent.
5.	In the case of a suspected outbreak of a communicable disease and when the University requires testing and provides treatment for t -.ich communicable disease of patients and/or employees who are not members :>f this bargaining unit, the University shall offer such tests and treatment for bargaining unit employees ■ within the appropriate affected work areas at no cost t > the employees. In case of a work-incurred illness or injury which is compen vr-.ble under the Workers' Compensation Act, the University shall provide such treatment to the employee within the bargaining unit as may be required by the Act.
ARTICLE 10 HOLIDAYS
UNIVERSITY HOLIDAYS
The University shall observe the following days as holidays:
New Year’s Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Third Monday in February (or announced equivalent) Last Monday in May
Fourth of July Labor Day
Veterans Day
Thanksgiving D iiy
Friday following Thanksgiving (or announced equ valent)
December 24 (c: announced equivalent)
Christmas Day
December 31 (<: announced equivalent
Cesar Chavez Day (Cesar Chavez floating holiday as provided in
Section B., below)
Unless the University designates an alternate day, when a h<iliday falls on Saturday, the preceding Friday is observed, and when the holiday falls on Sunday the following Monday is observed as a holiday.
The total number of holidays shall not exceed 13 holidays in a ralendar year.
B.	PERSONAL HOLIDAY FOR EMPLOYEES AT MEDICAL CENTER/HOSPITAL LOCATIONS
1.	Each member of the unit who works at a medical center hospital or clinic who is not working on an academic calendar shall be entities to one (1) floating holiday in lieu of Cesar Chavez Day mentioned in Section A., above, under the following circumstances:
a.	The employee is a member of the unit on A.igust 1st of the applicable contract year; and
b.	The employee uses the one (1) day between At gust 1* and July 31“ of each contract year. In the event the employee does not use the Personal Holiday time before April SO1*1, the University may schedule the use of the
27
holiday prior to July 315l. In the event the employee does not use the Personal Holiday time prior to the end of the contract year, the University will, at its sole non-grievable discretion, convert the Personal Holiday to either compensatory time and placed into the employee’s holiday compensatory time bank, or pay.
2.	The University shall grant requests for use of personal holiday time in accordance with hospital and clinic scheduling needs.
C.	HOLIDAY TIME PAY
1.	Eligibility
An employee is eligible for holiday time pay if the employee is on pay status at least fifty-percent (50%) of the hours in the appropriate pay cycle, excluding holiday hours. The employee must also work the last scheduled work day before the holiday and the first scheduled work day after the holiday, in order to receive holiday pay.
No employee shall receive holiday pay for any holiday, which is immediately preceded by or followed by an unauthorized absence or a disciplinary suspension.
2.	Compensation for Holidays
All eligible employees shall receive holiday time for the thirteen (13) holidays provided for in this Article, except as provided in Section B„ above, whether or not the holiday is worked. The decision pertaining to the method of payment for the holiday, which can either be paid in straight-time compensatory time off or in actual straight-time pay, shall be at the sole non-grievable discretion of the University.
a.	An eligible full-time, non-exempt employee shall receive eight (8) hours of holiday time, regardless of his or her work schedule.
b.	An eligible part-time, non-exempt employee shall receive proportionate holiday time, up to the maximum of eight (8) hours per holiday as provided in Section C.1. above. Such holiday time Is calculated on the number of hours in pay status in the month (for monthly pakt employees) in which the holiday falls, or the two (2) pay periods immediately preceding the pay period in which the holiday occurs (for bi-weekly paid employees).
3.	Pay For Holidays Worked
In addition to Section C.2., above, an employee shall be paid for all hours actually worked on the named holidays in accordance with the following:
a.	FLSA non-exempt employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/i) regular pay for hours worked on Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day (December 25th), New Year’s Day (January 1**), the Last Monday in May, Fourth of July and Labor Day.
b.	FLSA non-exempt employees and all FLSA exempt employees shall be paid regular pay at the straight-time rate for hours actually worked on all other holidays.
4.	Holiday Time As Compensatory Time
When holiday time is placed in a compensatory time bank, such bank shall be a straight-time holiday bank, and shall be kept separate from any other compensatory time bank. Holiday compensatory time banks shall be paid out in accordance with Article 11, Hours of Work, B.13.C, Compensatory Time Bank.
D.	RELIGIOUS OBSERVANCE
By charging time off to vacation, compensatory time off (for non-exempt employees), or leave without pay, an employee may observe a special or religious holiday if the University determines that work schedules permit.
28
E.	TEMPORARY LAYOFF
A full-time employee on a temporary layoff of not more thai twenty (20) calendar days, including holidays, shall receive pay for any holiday, which o ::cu>ved during that period.
F.	LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY
1.	A new full-time employee will be paid for any holiday immediately following his or her' last day of work if the holiday is the first working day(s) of a pay period. This rule does not apply to part-time employees.
2.	A terminating full-time employee shall receive pay for any holiday immediately following his or her last day of work if the holiday is the last working day(s) of a pay period. This rule does not apply to part-time employees.
3.	In lieu of using the Administrative Holiday during the winter shut-down, it may be used as a floating holiday, with advance supervisory approval, on Cesar Chavez Day (the last Friday in March) or Veterans Day (No ember 11). The Laboratory will be open on both Cesar Chavez Day and Veterans Day and closed during winter shut-down. Employees electing to use the flouting holiday on either Cesar Chavez Day or Veterans Day will be required to use an additional vacation day or leava-without-pay day during the winter shut-down. The floating holiday must be taken during the calendar year and cannot be accrued for future use. Nonexempt employees working on Cesar Chavez Day and Veterans Day will be paid for hours worked only. They will not receive additional h Dlirtvy pay.
ARTICLE 11
HOURS OF WORK
A.	EXEMPT EMPLOYEES
1.	The normal workweek for a full-time exempt employee is considered to be 40 hours, and for part-time exempt employees the prop ortion of 40 hours equivalent to the appointment percentage. However, greater emphasis is placed on meeting the responsibilities assigned to the position rather han on working a specified number of hours. Exempt employees do not receive overtime compensation or compensatory time off, or additional compensation t ayond the established salary for the position. After extended periods of additional time worked or unusually heavy workload, supervisors may approve an emplo fee's request for a temporary reduction in work schedule with no loss of pay.
2.	Accounting For Time Not Worked
a.	For full-time exempt employees, leaves with und without pay shall be used in one-day increments only.
b.	Part-time exempt employees shall account ft r time off work in increments not less than that portion of a day during which an employee on less than full-time pay status is normally scheduled to work; absences of less than an employee's regularly scheduled work day shall not be charged against accrued leave time.
c.	The salary of exempt employees shall not be reduced for absences of less than a full day or less than that portion of a d uy during which an employee on less than fall-time pay status is normally scheduled to work.
B.	NON-EXEMPT EMPLOYEES
1.	Workweek
A workweek is a period of time consisting of se ien consecutive days. The workweek is from 12:00 a.m. Sunday to 11:59 |i m. the following Saturday. Workweeks beginning and ending on a day ottnr than the above may be established by the University.
29
2.	Work Schedule
a.	A work schedule is the normal hours of work for an employee within one or more workweeks. Employees will be scheduled in accordance with the needs of the University.
b.	Full and part-time work schedules which may be established by the University include, but are not limited to:
1)	Eight (8) hours per day, excluding meal periods, on five (5) separate days within a workweek;
2)	Eight (8) hours per day, excluding meal periods, on ten (10) separate days within two (2) consecutive workweeks;
3)	Ten (10) hours per day, excluding meal periods, on four (4) separate days within a workweek;
4)	Ten (10) hours per day, excluding meal periods, on eight (8) separate days within two (2) consecutive workweeks;
5)	Twelve (12) hours per day, excluding meal periods, on ten (10) separate days within three (3) consecutive workweeks; or
6)	Twelve (12) hours per day, excluding meal periods, on thirteen (13) separate days within four (4) consecutive workweeks.
3.	Shift Coverage
The University shall determine when coverage is needed for vacation leave, sick leave, jury duty, military leave and other leaves. The University shall consider volunteers in assignment of HX employees.
4.	Alternate Work Schedules
a.	Employees may request alternate work schedules. The University will review the feasibility of implementing alternate work schedules in those work units for which the employee(s) indicate(s) there is an interest in such schedules.
b.	In the event the University decides to abolish, establish or change alternate work schedules in work areas, the University shall inform UPTE at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to taking such action.
c.	Nothing in this section shall infringe upon, interfere with or diminish in any way the University’s right to ensure adequate staffing and coverage to meet operational requirements and necessities in an efficient and orderly manner.
5.	Posting Of Schedules
a.	The University shall attempt to post work schedules at least two (2) weeks in advance. HX unit employees will be notified when changes occur to the schedule.
b.	1 "Posted work schedules” as used in this Article shall mean a printed, typewritten or handwritten schedule which is posted in a work site area of the affected employee.
c.	Part-time career employees who have indicated their availability for additional assignments shall, when practicable, offered the opportunity to work additional full or partial shifts prior to the scheduling of any per diem employee(s) for additional shifts, within the following limitations:
1)	The affected part-time career employee(s) are qualified for the additional assignment(s), as determined by the University; and
30
2)	The University shall not be obligaiisd to offer any additional assignnnent(s) to part-time employee:; if such assignment(s) will result in any form of premium pay as a result of the employee(s) working any additional shift(s); and
3)	The University shall not be obligated Io modify the work schedule of any Per Diem employee who has biren previously prescheduled in order to provide any part-time career employee(s) with additional work,
6.	Shift Preference
With regard to shift assignments, an employee mny tiie a written indication of preference for a particular shift (i.e., day shift, evening shift, or night shift) with his/her supervisor. The University shall also conside t length of University service and the skills, knowledge, and abilities of the employees who normally perform the work involved prior to deciding upon the shift assignment.
7.	Meal Periods
Not more than one (1) meal period of at least one half (14) hour is provided for shifts of eight (8) continuous hours or more. Meal periods are neither time worked nor time on pay status unless an employee is required by the University to remain on the job at a workstation. Whenever an employee is required to perform work during a meal period, the meal period shall be considered time worked.
8.	Rest Periods
Time normally granted for rest periods is limited to Iwo (2) periods of fifteen (15) minutes during an 8-hour or 10-hour shift, or three (3) periods during a 12-hour shift.
9.	Changing and Clean-up Time
The University shall determine when cleanup time or uniform changing time is necessary for employees. When the University rec‘.liras that the employee must change into or out of uniform, or must engage in special washing or cleaning procedures, the time spent in such activities shall be considered as time worked.
10,	Travel Time
Travel on University business during an employee's normal working hours, or outside normal working hours is considered time worked if performed pursuant to the University's instructions. Travel between an employee's home and the workplace is not considered time worked.
11.	Call Back
a.	Call back pertains to an employee who is nc L in on-call status and is called back to work in his/her unit after completing a shift and leaving the premises and before the employee’s next scheduled shift. An employee called back to work may be assigned :y the University to perform available work.
b.	An employee called back to work shall be p;lid fc/the time actually worked upon return or a minimum of three (3) hoi; rs, whichever is greater. Call back time whether worked or not is considered time worked for the purpose of calculating hours of overtime.
12.	On-Call
a.	On-call is time during which an employee is required to be available for return to work as a result of a call to woik. |\n employee is not considered to be in on-call status unless the employee iad previously been scheduled by the University for the assignment. The University retains the right to determine the need for, and the assignment of, on-call time.
31
b.	On-call will not be considered hours worked when employees are free to engage in activities for their own purposes even though they are required to inform the employer how they can be reached though to carry a beeper or radio.
1)	An employee in on-call status who is called in to work shall be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours of work or two (2) hours of pay in lieu of work for each occurrence of call-in. An employee in on-call status is not eligible for minimum call-back.
2)	Time spent in unrestricted on-call status, but not actually worked is not considered as time worked or time on regular pay status.
3)	An employee called in to work from on-call status shall be assigned by the University to perform available work.
4)	Employees are eligible for additional pay for unrestricted on-call in accordance with the rates listed in Appendix A-1, A-2 and A-3.
c.	On-call will be considered hours worked when an employee is required to restrict personal activities so that the employee cannot use his or her time effectively for the employee’s purposes. Under such circumstances, the employee will be paid at the employee’s normal pay rate (or overtime when appropriate).
13.	Overtime
a.	Assignment of Overtime
The University shall decide when overtime is needed and which employees will be assigned overtime. When practicable, the University shall ask for volunteers in the assignment of overtime and shall attempt to distribute overtime work assignments equitably based on the employee's ability to perform the work. Overtime must be approved in advance by the University. As soon as practicable after the need for overtime is determined, the University shall notify the employee that overtime must be worked. Employees are expected to work overtime when such work is assigned.
b.	Compensation of Overtime
1)	Overtime hours do not count toward accumulation of sick leave, vacation, holiday, or retirement service credit.
2)	Actual work for the purpose of computing overtime does not include hours paid in non-work status, such as sick leave pay, vacation pay, holiday pay, compensatory time, and paid leave of absence pursuant to Article 14 - Leaves of Absence.
3)	Except as provided in Section D, below, employees shall be compensated for overtime worked at one and one-half (1-’/t) times the straight-time rate when the following conditions apply;
a)	8/80 Option
Designated eight-hour employees who are assigned to a fourteen (14) consecutive day work period shall receive the time and one-half (1-%) overtime rate after eighty (80) hours of actual work in the fourteen (14) day period. In addition, such employees shall be compensated at one and one-half (1-’AX) times the regular straight time rate for hours worked which exceed eight (8) hours of actual work in any workday within the 14-day work period. Any payment at the time and one-half rate for daily overtime hours worked within the 14-da/ work period shall be credited toward any time and one-half (1-'/2x) compensation due for hours worked in excess of eighty (80) hours of actual work in the work period.
32
b)	Location Practice
Nothing shall preclude the University from paying ■ employees, on a campus by campus basis, time and one-half (1-%X) pay after shift. I:’or the purposes of this paragraph only, a shift is defined as a minimum of eight hours.
c.	Compensatory Time
1)	Overtime Compensation
a)	At the option of the University, overtime shall be compensated at the appropriate; rate either by pay or by compensatory time off, if t ie Department offers a compensatory time program, in accordance with this section.
b)	Unless the employee and the University agree otherwise, overtime will be paid. An emp oyee may within thirty (30) days of the effective date of th s agreement, or upon hire, and thereafter during the mouth of June, file a written indication of preference for eithiir compensatory time off or pay with his/her immediate supervisor. The University shad grant the preference indicated.
c)	The written indication of preference referenced in 1) b) above may be withdrawn by mutual agreement of the supervisor and the employee.
2)	Accumulation of compensatory time is lim'ted to no more than two hundred-forty (240) hours. An employee shall be paid for hours of overtime which exceed this limit.
3)	An employee may request scheduling of compensatory time. An employee's request for the scheduling of compensatory time shall be granted subject to the needs of the University, and shall not be unreasonably denied. Once the University has approved an employee's request to schedule compe nsatory time, the University shall not unreasonably rescind such approval.
C.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
There shall be no duplication, pyramiding, or compound ng of any premium wage payments.
D.	CONSECUTIVE DAYS OF WORK
1.	Subject to operational needs, the University shall nake every effort to avoid assigning HX Unit employees to work full shifts in exi :ess of the terms outlined in D.3.a., b., and c. below. For the purpose of this Section, a full shift consists of 8, 10 or 12 hours of work.
2.	The consecutive days of work provisions may be waited by the employee, either at his/her request or as the result of scheduling change requested by the employee which results in such consecutive days of v mrk.
3.	An HX Unit employee shall be paid one and one-half1-1/2) times the employee's straight-time rate for all hours worked on each shift in excess of a., b., or c., below until a day off is granted when:
a.	A designated 8-hour employee is scheduled to work more than six (6) consecutive full shifts within six (6) consecutive days.
b.	A designated 10-hour employee is scheduler to work more than five (5) consecutive full shifts within five (5) consecuth days.
33
c.
A designated 12-hour employee is scheduled to work more than four (4) consecutive full shifts within four (4) consecutive days.
E.	REST BETWEEN SHIFTS
The University encourages supervisors to schedule shifts so as to provide adequate rest between shifts.
F.	LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY
Policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, calculations, covered hours and rates in effect at PERB’s certification of UPTE-CWA local 9119, on September 15, 1997, shall remain in effect for employees at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and shall supersede the provisions of this Article where in conflict with the Agreement.
ARTICLE 12 JOB POSTING
Whenever vacancies within the bargaining unit are available for recruitment, the University shall either post a notice (in writing or electronically) listing the active, available, vacant position(s), or provide for electronic matching of employee skills with vacant positions, or circulate a notice to each unit at the campus/hospital/laboratory where the vacancies occur. The notice shall identify the unit and shift of the job opening and the duration of the recruitment. An employee may apply for posted vacancies before the closing date of the notice in accordance with local campus/hospitaf/laboratory procedures.
ARTICLE 13
LAYOFF AND REDUCTION IN TIME
A, GENERAL
1.	The University has the sole, non-grievable, non-arbitrable right to determine when temporary, emergency, or indefinite layoffs shall occur. If, in the judgment of the University, a layoff is necessary, staffing levels will be reduced in accordance with this Article. The University shall determine the unit of layoff and which positions are to be subject to layoff. When the University determines that there is to be a layoff within the bargaining unit, it shall give UPTE advance notice in accordance with Sections C. and D. below.
2.	Layoffs may be emergency, temporary or indefinite.
3.	A layoff is an involuntary:
a.	Separation from employment as implemented in accordance with the provisions of this Article, or
b.	Transfer of an employee in a career position to a non-career position, or
c.	Reduction in appointment rate of a non-probationary career employee.
B.	DEFINITIONS
1.	An emergency layoff is one for which the need occurs suddenly and may be caused by a decrease in workload, low census, or unforeseen occurrence that limits the availability of work. An individual employee may not be subject to emergency layoffs for more than fifteen (15) calendar days. An emergency layoff requires no advance notice.
2.	A temporary layoff is one for which the University specifies an affected employee’s date for return to work of not more than one hundred-twenty (120) calendar days from the effective date of the layoff.
3.	An indefinite layoff is one for which the affected employee receives no date for return to work, or no date of restoration to his/her former appointment rate.
34
C.	TEMPORARY LAYOFF
If the University determines that a temporary layoff of one hu ,dred-twenjy (120) calendar days or less is imminent, it shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
1.	Alternatives To Layoff
The University may, at its sole, non-grievable discretion attempt to avoid a temporary layoff, or to ease its impact, by implements p the following alternatives:
a.	Temporarily reassigning the affected emp :>yee(s) to an alternative assignment for which he/she is qualified, or
b.	Scheduling the use of accrued compensatory 1 ime, or
c.	Scheduling the use of accrued vacation time.
2.	Notice
When the University identifies particular employees to be affected by a temporary layoff, it shall give the individual employee written notice of the expected beginning and ending dates of the temporary layoff ar follows:
a.	The University shall give, if feasible, fifteen (>5) calendar days’ notice of the expected beginning and ending dates of the layoff to the affected employee(s) and the Union.
b.	For conversion from temporary layoff to indufinne layoff, the University shall give thirty (30) calendar days' notice, if f« visible.
c.	If less than fifteen (15) calendar days' notue is granted, the affected employee(s) may receive straight time pay in lieu of notice fbr each additional day the employee(s) would have been on pay status had the employee(s) been given fifteen (15) calendar days’ notice. Pay in lieu of notice is provided for reductions in appointme it rate only for the difference between the two rates.
d.	If the ending date of the temporary layoff is changed, the University shall give the affected employee notice. The employee shall return to work on the date provided in the notice.
1)	The employee shall return to work i;n the date provided in the Section C.2., Notice, above, and s iall notify the University in advance if he/she is unable to do i>o. The University and the employee shall attempt to establish n mutually agreeable return date. If, due to operational considenilions, the University cannot accommodate the employee's reques. for an alternate return date, he/she will be considered to have resigned effective on the date provided in the notice in Section C 2., iibove.
2)	Notice of a change in temporary layclf dates does not invoke the “pay in lieu of notice" provisions of this Article.
e.	When the University determines that a temporary layoff is imminent, it shall give UPTE such notice as is reasonable under the circumstances. The notice shall describe the general area(S/ which may be affected. The University shall notify the union concurrent with notification to affected HX employees that they are to be laid off, or thut changes in the temporary layoff dates have occurred.
3.	Conversion Of Temporary To Indefinite Layoff
In the event the University converts a temporary la> off or reduction in time to an indefinite layoff, the affected employee shall be provided all rights under Section D., Indefinite Layoff, beginning at the time of notification of conversion. If the University determines that an indefinite layoff is immnent, it shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of Section D, betov ।
35
In the case of reduction in time, employees who are laid off following a reduction in time that occurred within sixty (60) calendar days of the layoff notice shall be eligible for severance, or reduced severance, on the basis of their percentage of appointment just prior to their reduction in time.
D.	INDEFINITE LAYOFF
If the University determines that an indefinite layoff is imminent, it shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
1.	Alternatives To Layoff
The University may attempt to avoid an indefinite layoff, or to ease its impact, by implementing the following alternatives:
a.	Offering affected employee(s) an active available vacant career position, if any, at the same appointment rate, at the same salary level as determined by the salary range maximum within the layoff unit within the facility, provided the employee is qualified for the vacant position, or
b.	Scheduling the use of accrued vacation and/or compensatory time, in accordance with the needs of the University.
2.	Selection for Layoff
a.	"Seniority" is based on the most recent date of hire in a career position. Employment prior to a break in service shall not be counted when calculating seniority. When employees have the same date of hire, seniority shall be determined according to alphabetical order of the last name.
b.	The order of indefinite layoff of employees in the same classification within the unit of layoff shall be in inverse order of seniority.
c.	The University may retain employees irrespective of seniority who possess special knowledge, skills, or abilities which are 'sot equally possessed by other employees in the same classification in the layoff unit and which are necessary to perform the ongoing functions of the affected area. However, senior employees selected for layoff who have the ability to learn the necessary skills, within thirty (30) days, will be retained in the unit.
d.	Employees in the unit(s) affected by the layoff who have more seniority than those employees designated for layoff may volunteer to waive their seniority rights solely in order to be designated for the layoff. The University may approve such waiver, provided that the needs of the University, as determined by the University, are met.
Such employees shall be provided all rights under Section D.4., and Section D.5., below, beginning at the time of notification of Indefinite layoff.
e.	Where electronic job placement bulletin boards are in use, the University shall provide bargaining unit members access to such placement bulletin boards to the same degree as such bulletin boards are made available to other staff employees. Employees who are laid off may be provided information about other University locations' job placement bulletin boards according to local procedures.
3.	Notice
a.	When the University identifies particular employees to be affected by an indefinite layoff, it shall give individual written notice of the effective date of the layoff to each affected employee and the Union. Advance notice will be provided as follows:
1)	For indefinite layoff, the University shall give sixty (60) calendar days notice if feasible. The University may pay up to thirty (30) days of the sixty (60) day notice period in lieu of notice. In no event
36
shall an employee receive less than thirty (30) days notice , of indefinite layoff. For conversion from temporary layoff to indefinite layoff, the University shall give thirty 130) calendar days notice if feasible.
2)	If an HX unit employee with less serJority is to be retained, the University shall notify the union in adv. ;nce of the layoff date and in writing of the special knowledge, skills and abilities, which support the retention of the less senior HX em|iloyee.
b.	An employee shall be provided all rights under Section D.4, and Section D.5., below, beginning at the time of notification of his/her indefinite layoff.
4.	Recall
a.	Non-probationary career employees who aro indefinitely laid off shall be recalled in order of seniority to an active available vacant career position provided:
1)	The position is to be filled and
2)	Is in the same classification within th ;; layoff unit from which they were laid off, as determined by the University.
b.	Probationary, per diem, and limited appointment employees shall not have a right to recall. Employees who are eligible for recall with less than five (5) years of seniority shall retain recall eligibility for one (1) year. Employees who are eligible for recall with fi\ (5) years or more seniority shall retain recall eligibility for two (2) years.
c.	The right to recall terminates:
1)	Upon the employee’s retirement; or
2)	At the end of the eligibility period; or
3)	if an employee refuses and/or fails t:i respond affirmatively within ten (10) calendar days to a University inquiry concerning the employee’s desire to remain on the recall list for possible return to work; or
4)	If an employee refuses or fails to respond within ten (10) calendar days to a written recall to work in the same classification within the layoff unit, at the same or greater appointment rate, and at the same or greater rate of pay earned ty the employee at the time of layoff, or
5)	if an employee refuses an offer of r ^employment at the same or greater appointment rate, at the same or higher salary level as determined by the salary range maximum, and at the same or higher rate of pay earned by the employee at the time of layoff within ten (10) calendar days, or
6)	If an employee accepts a career petition within the University at the same or higher salary level as determined by the salary range maximum, the same or greater appointment rate, and the same or higher rate of pay earned by the empmyee at the time of layoff, or
7)	If a career employee who has received her/his notice of indefinite layoff elects to receive severance pa;1 in lieu of recall.
d.	Recall rights, once terminated, may be reinslituted at the sole discretion of the University, upon the request of the emplc yee.
5.	Preference for Reemployment
a.	A non-probationary career employee who 'i=; on indefinite layoff, or who has received written notice of an indefinite layoff shall be granted
37
preference for reemployment or transfer to any active, vacant career bargaining unit position at the same campus/hospital/laboratory from which the employee was laid off and for which the employee is qualified when the position is to be filled is:
1)	At the same or lower salary level (as determined by the salary range maximum); and
2)	At the same or lesser percentage of time as the position held by the employee at the time of layoff.
b.	Preference for reemployment or transfer is not extended to probationary, per diem, or limited appointment HX employees. A regular status HX employee with preference for reemployment or transfer may be rejected only if the employee lacks qualifications required of the position sought.
c.	HX employees eligible for preference for reemployment with less than ten (10) years seniority at the time the layoff occurs ihall retain preference for reemployment status for one (1) year. HX employees with ten (10) or more years of seniority at the time the layoff occurs shall retain preference for reemployment for two (2) years.
d.	HX employees preferentially rehired from layoff status or assigned to a new position after receiving notice of layoff who fail to perform satisfactorily may, at any time during the six (6) months following such return, be returned to or placed on layoff status. Previous time on layoff status prior to rehire shall be deducted from the employee's period of eligibility.
e.	The right to preference for reemployment terminates:
1)	Upon the employee’s retirement; or
2)	At the end of the eligibility period; or
3)	If an HX employee refuses recall under the provisions of Section D.4., Recall, above; or
4)	If an HX employee refuses and/or fails to respond to a University inquiry concerning the employee’s decire to remain on the preference for reemployment list; or
5)	If an HX employee accepts a career position; or
6)	If an HX employee refuses to accept a position offered by the University which is at the same or higher salary level (as determined by the salary range maximum); and, is at the same or higher appointment rate held by the HX employee at the time of layoff; or
7)	If a career employee who has received her/his notice of indefinite layoff elects to receive severance pay in lieu of preferential rehira.
f.	The right to preference for reemployment continues during, but is not extended by, temporary periods of employment in limited appointment and/or Per Diem positions.
6.	Severance ~ Effective March 30, 2007 through the Duration of the Agreement.
a.	A career employee who has received notice of indefinite layoff may elect, in writing, to receive severance pay in lieu of preferential rehire and recall rights within fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt of the notice of layoff. Election is irrevocable. Each medical center/campus department shall, in each instance of layoff, not reduction in time, offer severance in lieu of preferential rehire and recall rights with reduced severance to all employees in the department affected by the layoff. Employees who are reduced in time may elect only severance pay (proportional to their
38
reduction in time) in lieu of preferential rehire ;ind recall rights. Severance pay shall be in accordance with the following:
1)	Payment. An employee who elects severance pay in lieu of preferential rehire and recall rights shall be paid a lump sum as follows:
a.	Employees with less than fi/e (5) years of University service shall receive two (2) we i?ks severance pay.
b.	Employees with five (5) or mor !.1 years of University service shatl receive five (5) weeks sei/er-.nce pay, plus one week for each additional year of service, up to a maximum of sixteen (16) weeks.
c.	Employees who are laid off fallowing a reduction in time that occurred within sixty (60) calendar days of the layoff shall be eligible for severance, or reduced severance, on the basis of their percentage of appointment just prior to their reduction in time.
d.	This section shall not apply to temporary layoff.
e.	Failure to make an election £;si provided in Section 6 will result in the employee receiving preferential rehire and recall rights and extinguish the right to severance pay.
b.	Reduced Severance (with Preference and Re caff)
1)	A career employee who has received1notice of indefinite layoff may elect, in writing, to receive preferential rehire and recall rights with reduced severance within 14 days of receipt of the notice of layoff. Election is irrevocable. The UnIversit,' sF-ill offer severance in lieu of preferential rehire and recall rights vith reduced severance to all eligible employees in the department affected by toe layoff. Reduced severance pay shall be in accordance with the following:
2)	Employees with less than five (5) ye iirs of service are not eligible for reduced severance under this section.
3)	Employees with five (5) or more year;; of service shall receive four (4) weeks reduced severance.
4)	Employees with 13 or more years of iiervice shall receive eight (8) weeks reduced severance.
5)	Employees who are laid off follow ng a reduction in time that occurred within sixty (60) calendar days of the layoff notice shall be eligible for reduced severance on the basis of their percentage of appointment just prior to their reduction in time.
6)	This section shall not apply to temper nry layoff or reduction in time.
7)	Failure to make an election as provided to Section 6 will result in
the employee receiving preferential rehire and recall rights and extinguish the right to the reduced se rerance pay option.
c.	1) UPTE will be notified if an employee J as been provided severance or reduced severance.
2)	Should an employee, as a result <i a grievance, arbitration, or settlement agreement, be returned to work or be rehired or preferentially rehired or recalled, related to the layoff, the severance or reduced severance received will be deducted from the back pay award, if any, or credite d as an advance on earnings, if proportional severance is to be returned.
d.	1) An employee cannot be returned to v ork without first repaying the
39
severance or reduced severance or signing a severance repayment agreement. The employee’s failure to complete the severance repayment obligation shall not increase the University’s back pay liability, if applicable.
2)	Repayment. An employee who has received severance pay under this provision and who returns to work in a career position with the University at the same or higher salary and same or higher percentage of time as the position held at the time of layoff shall repay to the University the portion of severance pay received that exceeds the time the employee was laid off. Before returning to work, the employee must make repayment in full or sign a repayment agreement
E.	CONTINUITY OF SERVICE UPON REEMPLOYMENT
1.	A layoff of one hundred-twenty (120) calendar days or less does not create a break in service.
2.	Reemployment in a career position within the period of right to recall or preference provides continuity of service and reinstates previous seniority.
3,	Seniority accrues, and benefit accruals are accumulated, only when an employee is on pay status.
F.	BENEFIT COVERAGE
Medical and retirement plan coverage may be provided to employees in layoff status, in accordance with the Plan Regulations and Documents. An employee in layoff status should discuss his/her medical and/or retirement coverage with the campus/hospital benefits office representative.
G.	LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY
Policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, and calculations in effect at PERB’s certification of UPTE-CWA Local 9119, on September 15, 1997, relative to severance pay, preferential rehire, and recall shall remain in effect for employees at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and shall supersede the provisions of this Article where in conflict with the agreement.
ARTICLE 14 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
Subject to the provisions of this Article, leaves of absence may be with or without pay, may be for medical purposes and/or non-medical reasons, and are subject to the approval of the University. Nothing shall preclude the University, on a campus-by-campus basis, from establishing, implementing, or continuing a Catastrophic Illness or Injury Leave policy covering Health Care Professional unit employees.
1.	Definitions
a.	Non-medical leaves of absence, with or without pay, include: Family Care Leave, leave for jury duty, voting, blood donations, administrative or legal proceedings, emergencies, and University functions.
b.	Medical Leaves with or without pay, include Pregnancy Disability Leave, Family Care/Medical Leave, and Disability Leave.
c.	FMLA is the federal Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
d.	CFRA is the California Family Rights Act of 1995.
2.	Use Of Family Care And Medical Leave Entitlement
40
a.	If an employee eligible for a Family Care/Mecical Leave takes a leave for her/his own serious health condition, (as defir =;d in Section B.1 ,e. below), the absence from work shall be deducted iiom the employee's Family Care/Medical Leave entitlement.
b.	If an employee is ineligible for Family Care/Mecical Leave or if the employee has exhausted her/his leave year entitlement, en approved disability leave of absence may be provided for the period(s) ar< eligible employee is absent from work for verifiable medical reasons as provided in Section C. and Section D. of this Article.
3.	Benefit Eligibility While On Leave Without Pay
a.	Special Benefit Eligibility For Family Care/L “dical Leaves - An eligible employee shall have University-provided heallh benefits continued for the period of the Family Care/Medical Leave in ac ::ordance with Section B.9. of this Article.
b.	An approved leave without pay shall not be cori'iide.ed a break in service.
c.	The provisions of Article 36, Sick Leave, Articli । 42, Vacation, and Article 40,
University Health and Welfare Benefits, shall ripply when employees are on an approved leave without pay.
d.	An eligible employee on approved leave without pay may elect to continue University-sponsored insurance coverages (as determined by plan documents or regulations) for the period of th< ■■ leave by remitting the entire premium amount due for the period of the approved leave, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable plan(s). Regulations of the retirement systems determine the effects of leave without pay on retirement benefits.
4.	Requests For Leave
Except as provided under Section B.3., Family Care/Medical Leave Notification, requests for leaves of absence and extensions,, with or without pay, shall be submitted in writing to the University. Such 'equests shall be submitted sufficiently in advance of the requested leave date to provide the University time to assess the operational impact of granting the re [uest. All requests for (eaves of absence shall contain the requested beginning end end date of the leave, and any additional information as required.
5.	Duration
a.	The start date of the leave, the terms of the leave and the date of return from the leave are determined when the lei we is granted, and shall be Communicated to the employee, in accordarce with the provisions of this Article. Except as provided under Section 6.4.b., Family Care/Medicaf Leave, written confirmation shall be provided when the University determines such confirmation is appropriate.
b.	Except as provided for under Pregnancy Disability, Section C.1.b,2.r the aggregate maximum of leaves taken in any cc mbination shall not exceed six (6) months in any one (1) year period.
c.	No employee with a predetermined appointment end date or predetermined date of separation shall be granted a leavu of absence beyond her/his appointment end date or the predetermined dnte of separation.
6.	Return To Work
a.	Except as provided in Section B, Family Gire/Mxiical Leave, Section C, Pregnancy Disability Leave, and Article 18, Military Leave, an employee who has been granted an approved leave with or without pay shall be reinstated to the same or a similar position in the same department upon expiration of the leave, in accordance with the Provisions of this Article. If the position held has been abolished or affected by layoff liuring the leave, the employee shall be afforded the same considerations W' dch would have been afforded
41
had that employee been on pay status when the position was abolished or affected by layoff.
b.	Failure to provide a medical release to return to work, as required in Section B.5. and Section D.4., may result in the delay of reinstatement until the employee submits the required medical release certification.
c.	An employee who has exhausted her/his original leave entitlement and who has been granted additional leave under another section of this Article, shall be reinstated in accordance with the provisions of the section under which the additional leave was granted. The employee shall be advised in writing, at the time the additional leave is granted.
d.	An employee who fails to return to work from a leave of absence on the approved anticipated date of return shall be considered to have abandoned her/his job, in accordance with Article 33 - Resignation/Job Abandonment.
B.	FAMILY CARE AND MEDICAL LEAVE
Family Care Leave includes Parental Leave and Family Illness Leave. Medical Leave is provided for the employee's own serious health condition,
1,	Definitions
a,	"Parental Leave” is leave to care for the employee's newborn or a child who has been placed with the employee for adoption, stepchild, legal ward, or foster care.
b.	“Family Illness Leave” is leave to care for the employee's child, parent, or spouse with a serious health condition.
c.	“A Family Member" for the purposes of family care leave is the employee's biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild or legal ward who is under eighteen (18) years, a child for whom the employee stands in loco parentis, or an adult dependent child; a biological, foster, or adoptive parent, stepparent or legal guardian, an individual who stood in loco parentis while the employee was a child; or spouse, or same / opposite sex domestic partner.
d,	“A Serious Health Condition For The Purposes Of Family Illness Leave” is an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition which warrants the participation of the employee to provide supervision or care during a period of treatment or incapacity including psychological comfort.
e.	"Medical Leave" is leave granted for the employee's own serious health condition which makes the employee unable to perform any one or all of the essential assigned functions of the employee's position. An employee disabled because of pregnancy-related conditions is covered under Section C. - Pregnancy Disability, below.
f.	"An Employee's Own Serious Health Conditior.” is an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition, that renders the employee unable to perform any one or all of the essential functions of the employee's position and involves the following:
1)	Inpatient care in a hospital, hospice, or residential medical care facility, or
2)	Continuing treatment by a health care provider for:
a)	A period of incapacity of more than three (3) consecutive calendar days, or
b)	Any period of incapacity or treatment due to a chronic serious health condition, or
42
c)	Any period of incapacity which is jjermanent or long-term due to a condition for which treatment nay not be effective.
g.	*A Health Care Provider" is an individual who Is licensed in California or is duly licensed in another State or jurisdiction,'to hold either a physician's and surgeon's certificate or an osteopathic, physician's and surgeon's certificate, or who is duly licensed as a podiatrist, dentist, clinical psychologist, optometrist, chiropractor (limited to the treatment of the spine to correct a subluxation as demonstra isd by x-ray to exist), nurse practitioner or nurse mid-wife performing withi i the scope of her/his duties, or Christian Science practitioner or any health care provider that the employee’s health plan carrier recognizes for purposes of payment.
h.	”1,250 Hours Of Actual Service” means time, actually spent at work and does not include any paid time off including but not limited to an employee’s use of accrued vacation, compematcry time, or sick leave, nor does it include time paid for holidays no; worked or time spent in unrestricted on-call status (for employees grafted military leave, all hours that would have been worked had the employee not been ordered to military duty shall be used to calculate the 1,250 actual hours of work requirement.)
2.	Eligibility Criteria And Duration
a.	Employees who have at least twelve (12) cumulative months of University service, and have at least 1,250 hours of actual service during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the commencement of the leave, are eligible for and shall be granted up to a total of twelve (12) workweeks of Family Care/Medical Leave in the leave year. For the purposes of this Article and section, only, all prior University si rrvice, including service with the Department of Energy Laboratories, shrill be used to calculate the twelve-month service requirement.
b.	Family Care/Medical Leave is unpaid leave, except as otherwise provided in this Article.
1)	An employee's use of her/his accrued Compensatory Time Off cannot be deducted from the tweve (12) workweek Family Care/Medical Leave maximum, and st all not be granted. All other time off used for family care and/cr medical leave purposes, including Work Incurred Injury and Illness leave, shall be deducted from the twelve (12) workweek Family Care/Medical Leave maximum.
2)	Family Care/Medical Leave shall not exceed twelve (12) workweeks in any twelve (12) month.period, and the leave year shall commence on the date the employee first takes leave, in the event the leave year for alt other University employees becomes a calendar year, the commencement period for employees in this bargaining unit shall be the same as thcommencement period for all other staff employees.
c.	If the employee has exhausted her/his entitieinent to Family Care/Medical Leave, s/he may apply for additional leave pur ;uant to this Article.
3.	Notification
a.	If the employee teams of the event giving risti to the need for leave more than thirty (30) calendar days in advance, o: the leave's anticipated initiation date, the employee shall give the Unive rsity at least thirty (30) calendar days notice of the need for leave. Au employee who fails to give thirty (30) days’ notice for a foreseeable leave with no reasonable basis for the delay, may have the family care and/or medical leave delayed until thirty (30) days after the date on which the em iloyee provides notice.
1)	If the need for leave is foreseeable due to a planned medical treatment or the supervision of a family member's medical treatment, the employee shall make reasonable efforts to schedule
43
the treatment so as to not unduly disrupt the University's operations.
2)	If the need for leave is unforeseeable or r dually occurs prior to the anticipated date of foreseeable leave, the employee shall provide the University with as much notice as practicable and, at a minimum, within five calendar days after learning of the need for leave.
b.	The University shall determine whether the employee meets the eligibility requirements and therefore qualifies for a Family Care/Medical Leave and shall, as soon as practicable, notify the employee whether the leave is designated or provisionally designated as Family Care/Medical Leave. The start date of the leave, the terms of the leave and the date of return from the leave are determined when the leave is granted.
c.	Extensions to the Family Care/Medical Leave, up to the aggregate maximum of twelve (12) weeks in the leave year, may be granted in accordance with Section B.2.b. of this Article.
4.	Certification
a.	For The Employee’s Own Serious Health Condition. When a leave of absence is requested for the employee's own serious health condition, the University may, at its discretion, require that an employee's request for leave be supported by written certification issued oy the employee's health care provider. When the University requires certification, the University shall inform the employee of its requirement in writing. Certification may be provided by the employee on a form given to the employee by the University and shall, regardless of the format in which it is provided, include:
1)	Certification that the employee has a serious health condition as defined in Section B.1.f., above, and
2)	A statement as to whether the employee is unable to perform any one or more of the essential assigned functions of the position including a statement of the function(s) the employee is unable to perform, and
3)	The date on which the employee's serious health condition began, if known, the probable duration of the condition and the employee's probable date of return, and
4)	Whether it will be necessary for the employee to take leave intermittently or to work on a reduced work schedule, and if so, the probable duration of such schedule, and,
5)	If the condition is chronic and the employee is presently incapacitated, the duration and frequency of episodes of incapacity.
b.	For The Employee’s Family Member. When a leave of absence is requested for the serious health condition of the employee's family member, the University may, at its discretion, require that an employee's request for leave be supported by written certification issued by the family member's health care provider. When the University requires certification, the University shall inform the employee in writing. Certification may be provided by the employee on a form given to the employee by the University and shall, regardless of the format in which it is provided, include:
1)	Certification that the employee's family member has a serious health condition as defined in Section B.l.d., above, and
2)	A statement that the family member's serious health condition warrants the participation of the employee to provide supervision or care during a period of the treatment or incapacity or psychological comfort, and
44
3)	Whether the employee’s family member will need care intermittently or on a reduced work schedule and the probable duration that the employee is needed to provide care.
4)	In addition, the employee will be requi ed to certify either on the form or separately the care s/he will p'ovide the family member and the estimated duration of the period of care.
c.	Confirmation Of Family Relationship. The University may, at its sole, non-grievable discretion, require an employee requestin';] leave to care for a family member with a serious health condition or reqi ssting Parental leave, to provide documentation of the familial relationship c r proof of birth, placement for adoption or foster care. The employee's failure to provide documentation within fifteen (15) calendar days of the University's request may, at the sole, non-grievable discretion of the University, result in eitiier
1)	A delay of the leave until Vie required do cumentation is provided or
2)	If the leave has not begun, it will be denied. If the leave has
begun, the leave will not be designated as Family and Medical Care Leave and may be discontinued by Ihe University.
d.	Questioned Medical Opinions. Should the University question the validity of the employee's certification for her/his own serious health condition the University may, at its sole, non-grievable discretion, require the employee to obtain a second medical opinion from a second heiilth care provider selected by the University. Should the second medical opin on differ from the opinion of the employee's own health care provider, the University may, at its sole, non-grievable discretion, require a third medical opinion from a third health care provider, jointly agreed to by the employee und the University. The University shall bear the cost of the second and tired opinions, and the third opinion shall be final.
e.	Additional Certification And /Or Recertification. If additional leave is requested or should the circumstances of the leave change, he University may, at its sole, non-grievable discretion, require the employed to obtain recertification. Such requests for subsequent certification and/or recertification may be either verbal or in writing.
1)	If certification and/or recertification are required, the employee shall return the certification within fifteen j 15) calendar days of the University's request, where practicable.
2)	Failure to provide certification and/er recertification for a foreseeable leave within the requested time may result in delay of the leave until the required certification is received. Failure to provide certification for an unforeseeable leave within the requested time period may result in discontinuance of the leave until the required certification is provided. If the employee fails to provide certification, the leave is not Family Care/Medical Leave and will be denied as family care leave, in accordance with the provisions of Section B.4.C.2).
f.	Failure To Provide Complete Certification And/Or Recertification. If the employee fails to provide a completed certification and/or recertification, the employee shall be given at least fifteen (15) calendar days to perfect the certification and/or recertification. Failure to perfect ;i incomplete certification and/or recertification within the requested time period may result in delay of the leave or discontinuance of the leave until the recuired certification and/or recertification is provided. If the employee fails to provide a complete certification and/or recertification, the leave is not Family Care/Medical Leave and will be denied in accordance with the provisions ol Section B.4.C.2.
5.	Return From Family Care/Medical Leave For Own Health Condition
a.	The employee shall provide her/his employing department at least ten (10) days notice of her/his anticipated return to work.
45
b.	An employee who has been granted a Family Care/Medical Leave for her/his own serious health condition, must provide a written medical release to return to work prior to returning to work.
c.	The employee who has been medically released to perform the essential assigned functions of her/his job, shall be returned in accordance with the provisions of Section B.10.
d.	Failure to provide a medical release to return to work may result in the delay of reinstatement until the employee submits the required medical release certification.
6.	Use Of Accrued Paid Leave
a.	Family Care/Medical Leave is unpaid, except for the use of sick leave and/or the use of accrued vacation, as provided in this Article;
b.	An employee on leave for her/his own serious health condition:
1)	Shall use accrued sick leave in accordance with the University's disability plan requirements; or
2)	If not eligible for University disability benefits and not on leave as a result of a work-incurred injury or illness, shall use all accrued sick leave prior to taking leave without pay; or
3)	If on leave due to a work-incurred injury or illness, may use accrued sick leave as provided in Article *5 - Work Incurred Injury or Illness.
c.	An employee on leave for her/his own serious health condition shall use accrued vacation time prior to taking leave without pay, if all accrued sick leave has been exhausted.
g.	An employee on Family Care Leave for Family Illness may use sick leave in accordance with Article 36 - Sick Leave, Section B.3., and shall use accrued vacation time prior to taking leave without pay.
7.	Duration
a.	For the purposes of Family Care/Medical Leave, only twelve (12) workweeks is equivalent to four-hundred eighty (480) hours of scheduled work for full-time career and limited employees who are normally scheduled for an eight (8) hours per day five (5) days per workweek (8/40) schedule. While the use of Family Care/Medical Leave need not be consecutive, in no event shall an employee's aggregate use of Family Care/Medical Leave exceed a total of twelve (12) workweeks within the leave year.
b.	Hourly Conversion For Part-Time or Alternatively Scheduled Employees. For employees who work part-time or a schedule other than an 8/40, the number of Family Care/Medical Leave hours to which the employee is eligible shall be adjusted in accordance with her/his normal weekly work schedule. An employee whose schedule varies from week to week is eligible for a pro-rated amount of Family Care/Medical Leave based on her/his hours worked over the previous twelve (12) weeks preceding the leave.
c.	Employee Requests For Reduced Work Schedules. When medically necessary and supported by medical certification, the University shall grant an eligible employee's request for a reduced work schedule or intermittent leave including absences of less than one (1) day. When granted, the University wilt count only the time actually spent on the intermittent leave or reduced work schedule towards the employee’s entitlement of four-hundred eighty (480) hours in the leave year.
d.	Alternate Assignments To Accommodate Intermittent Leave Or Reduced Work Schedule. When the employee requests an intermittent leave or a
46
reduced work schedule, the University may, at its sole, non-grievable discretion, require the employee to transfer ssmporarily to an available alternate position for which the employee is qualified and which better accommodates the employee's recurring perilid of leave. Such transfer shall have equivalent pay and terms and cor ditions of employment, but does not need to have equivalent duties.
8.	Parental Leave
a.	Parental Leave is a form of Family Care/MeiIleal Leave to care for the employee's newborn or a child placed with the employee for adoption, stepchild, legal ward or foster care. Such loave must be initiated and concluded within one (1) year of the birth or placement of the child. The University shall grant a Parental Leave subject to the limitations described below. If requested and taken immediately following a Pregnancy Disability Leave, an employee eligible for FML^TFRA at the beginning of her Pregnancy Disability leave shall be graded the unused portion of CFRA/FMLA leave for Parental Leave purposes, up to a maximum of twelve (12) workweeks. The amount available for use is determined by the amount which the employee has previous y used under CFRA/FMLA in the leave year.
b.	Requests For Parental Leave. The employee s hall request Parental Leave sufficiently in advance of the expected birth da of the child or placement of a child for adoption or foster care to allow tie University to plan for the absence of the employee. The anticipated d ute of return from Parental Leave shall be set at the time such leave commences, or if requested in conjunction with a Family Care/Medicai Luave on account of the pregnancy/childbearing disability, shall be se. at the time such Family Care/Medical Leave commences. Parents, Leave, .when taken for adoption or foster care, could commence prior 11> the date of placement.
c.	Duration. Parental Leave, alone, shall not exc ned twelve (12) workweeks within the leave year as defined in Section B.2.b.2) and B.7., above. However, when Parental Leave is combined viith a leave for pregnancy-related and/or childbearing disability only, the total Family Care/Parental Leave shall not exceed seven (7) months in the l^ave year.
1)	An employee on Parental Leave shall use accrued vacation time prior to taking leave without pay.
2)	The University shall grant a Parental Leave of at least two (2) weeks duration on any two occasions during the leave year.
3)	The University, at its sole, non-grievable discretion, may require that any additional Parental Leave requested during this same time period be for a minimum duration U two (2) weeks, unless otherwise required by law.
9.	Continuation Of Health Benefits
An eligible employee who is on an approved Family dare and/or Medical Leave shall be entitled to continue participation in health plan coverage (medical, dental, and vision) as if s/he were on pay status for a period of up to twelve (12) workweeks in the leave year. However, an employee >:>n an approved Pregnancy Disability Leave who is dually eligible for leave unditr the federal Family and Medical Leave Act and the California Family Rights Ac I, shall be entitled for up to twelve (12) workweeks of health plan coverage for the combined Pregnancy Disability Leave/Parental Leave which runs concurrently with FMLA and/or CFRA. Other group insurance coverage and retirement ben yfits shall be continued in accordance with the provisions of the applicable group insurance and retirement system regulations.
10.	Return To Work
When an employee has been granted an approved Family Care/Medical Leave of Absence and returns within twelve (12) workweeks of the initiation of the leave, s/he shall be reinstated to the same or an equivalent position upon expiration of
47
the leave. If the position has been abolished or otherwise affected by layoff and an equivalent position is not available, the employee shall be afforded the same considerations that would have been afforded had the employee been on pay status when the position was abolished or affected by layoff. No employee with a predetermined appointment end date or predetermined date of separation shall be granted a leave of absence beyond her/his appointment end date or the predetermined date of separation. An employee who has been granted a Family Care/Medical Leave for her/his own health condition, will be required by the University to provide a written medical release to return to work prior to her/his return to work.
C.	PREGNANCY DISABILITY LEAVE
1.	Duration
a.	During the period of verified pregnancy-related and/or childbearing disability, an employee is entitled to and the University shall grant up to four (4) months of Pregnancy Disability Leave for pregnancy/childbearing disability purposes.
b.	Duration. If the employee is eligible for Family Care/Medical Leave, pursuant to Section B, above, such leave shall be deducted from an employee's federal Family and Medical Leave entitlement.
1)	If the pregnancy-related/childbearing medical disability continues beyond four (4) months, a medical disability leave of absence may be granted in accordance with Section D., below, for a total medical absence not to exceed six (6) months.
2)	Additionally, the employee may be eligible for Parental Leave, pursuant to Section B.8., above, to care L-- her newborn child. The total Family Care Leave, when combined with a Pregnancy Disability Leave, shall not exceed seven (7) months in the leave year.
c.	Pregnancy Disability Leave May Consist of leave with or without pay; however, an employee shall be required to use accrued sick leave in accordance with the University's Disability Plan. If sick leave is exhausted, the employee may elect to use accrued vacation time before taking leave without pay. .
d.	Additional Family Care Leave in The Leave Year. Upon termination of the Pregnancy Disability Leave, which runs concurrently with federal Family Care/Medical Leave, an eligible employee shall also be entitled to the unused portion of CFRA/FMLA leave up to a maximum of twelve (12) workweeks for any covered reason except leave for a pregnancy-related medical condition provided that the CFRA/FMLA leave begins immediately following the end of the Pregnancy Disability Leave. The amount available for use is determined by the amount that the employee has previously used under FMLA/CFRA in the leave year.
2.	As An Alternative To Or In Addition To Pregnancy Disability Leave, the University shall temporarily transfer a pregnant employee to a less strenuous or hazardous position upon the request of the employee and with the advice of the employee's health care provider, if the transfer can be reasonably accommodated. For the purpose of this section, a temporary transfer includes a temporary modification of the employee's own position to make it less strenuous or hazardous. A temporary transfer under this section is considered time worked and shall not be counted toward an employee's entitlement of up to four (4) months of pregnancy disability leave, unless the employee is also on a reduced work schedule or an intermittent leave schedule.
3.	Reduced Work Schedule - When medically necessary, and supported by medical certification, the University shall grant an employee Pregnancy Disability Leave on a reduced work schedule or on an intermittent basis including absences of less than one (1) day. Only the time actually spent on the intermittent or reduced leave schedule shall be counted towards the employee's entitlement of four (4) months in any twelve (12) month period.
48
4.	Return To Work - An employee who has been granted a temporary transfer and/or Pregnancy Disability Leave shall be reinstsled to the same position, provided that the employee returns to work immediat i:ly upon termination of the Pregnancy Disability Leave and provided that the agg jgate duration of all leaves granted for a given pregnancy does not exceed four (i|) months. If the same job has been abolished or affected by layoff, the employee shall be reinstated to a similar job. If a similar position is not available, the employee shall be afforded the same considerations which would have been a forded had that employee been on pay status when the position was abolished or affected by layoff. The date of reinstatement is determined when the leave is i:ranted.
5.	Continuation Of Benefits
An employee on Pregnancy Disability Leave who is niso eligible for leave under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act and the (State of California Family Rights Act, shall be entitled, if eligible, to continue participation in health plan coverage (medical, dental, and vision) as if on pay f,lotus for up to twelve (12) workweeks in the leave year. Other group insurance coverage and retirement benefits shall be continued in accordance with the provisions of the applicable group insurance and retirement system regulations.
D,	DISABILITY LEAVES OTHER THAN FMLA/CFRA/PIIEGNANCY DISABILITY ENTITLEMENT
1.	A disability leave of absence is the period(s) an eligible career employee is granted leave from work for medical reasons in accordance with Section D.2., below. This leave includes the combined use of accrued sick leave and the disability leave of absence without pay in accordance with the provisions of this Article and Article 36 - Sick Leave. Disability leaves :>f absence with or without pay are provided for leaves due to non-work related illnesses or injuries.
2.	Eligibility
a.	An employee may be eligible for a disability lea ,re of absence with or without pay when s/he has exhausted her/his twelve (12) workweek Family Care/Medical Leave entitlement in the' leave year, or s/he is not otherwise eligible for Family Care/Medical Le ave, or the employee has exhausted her four (4) month entitlement t rider Pregnancy Disability Leave, and s/he:
b.	Is medically incapable of performing the esstatial assigned functions of her/his job due to a non-work related illness or injury; and
c.	Has furnished evidence of disability satisfactory to the University.
3.	Duration
a.	When the use of accrued sick leave and a disability leave of absence without pay are combined, the University may ijrant a disability leave for a total period of verified disability not to exceed si :< (6) months.
b.	An employee granted a disability leave who is ulso applying for University disability for non-work related disability purpose is shall use all accrued sick leave in accordance with the University's disability plan prior to taking leave without pay.
c.	In the event that the employee's accrued sick leave is greater than six (6) months, a disability leave of absence without c =iy in addition to the use of all accrued sick leave, shall not be granted.
d.	If an extension to a disability lepve of absence within the total six (6) month period is not granted, an employee will; be medically separated in accordance with Article 17 - Medical Separation of this Agreement.
e.	An employee who is receiving long term disability payments from a retirement system to which the University contributes will be medically
49
separated on the basis of medical condition in accordance with Article 17 Medical Separation of this Agreement.
4.	Return To Work
The employee shall not be reinstated from a medically-related leave of absence until a medical release certification is provided to the University within the time limits specified by the department. A medical release certification shall include a statement by the employee's health care provider of the employee's ability to perform the essential functions of the position.
E.	PERSONAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
1.	A non-probationary career employee may be granted a Personal Leave of Absence without Pay at the sole, non-grievable discretion of the University. Such leave shall not exceed six (6) calendar months. Personal Leave without Pay shall not be considered a break in service and shall not determine eligibility for benefits except that the regulations of the retirement systems must be specifically checked to determine the effects of such leave without pay on retirement benefits.
2.	The University, at its sole, non-grievable discretion, may approve extension of a personal leave of absence without pay. Total leave time is normally not more than twelve (12) months.
F.	LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITH PAY
1.	Jury Duty
A full-time employee in a career position on any shift work schedule shall be granted leave with pay for actual time spent on jury service and in related travel, not to exceed the number of hours in the employee's normal work day and the employee’s normal workweek. A part-time employee in a career position shall be granted leave with pay for actual time spent on jury service and in related travel which occur during the employee's regularly scheduled hours of work.
2.	Voting
An employee shall be granted leave with pay, up to a maximum of two (2) hours, for voting in a statewide primary or general election if the employee is scheduled to work eight (8) hours or more on that day and does not have time to vote outside of working hours.
3.	Blood Donations
An employee may be granted leave with pay, up to a maximum of two (2) hours, for donating blood during regularly scheduled hours of work.
4.	Administrative Or Legal Proceedings
a.	When an employee is attending administrative or legal proceedings as directed by the University or is subpoenaed by the University to appear as a witness in an administrative or legal proceeding, leave without loss of straight time pay will be granted for actual time spent in the proceedings and in related travel not to exceed the number of hours in the employee's normal work day and workweek.
b.	An employee subpoenaed by the State or a political subdivision thereof when the State or political subdivision is prosecuting a person for an offense which the employee, by virtue of being on University premises during scheduled work hours, witnessed, shall be granted leave-without-loss-of-straight-time pay for actual time spent in the proceedings and in related travel time not to exceed the employee's normal work day and workweek.
c.	The granting of leave-without-loss-of-straight-time pay status for other employment-related situations where an employee has been subpoenaed shall be at the sole, non-grievable, non-arbitrable discretion of the University.
50
5.
Emergencies
In the event of natural or man-made emergencies, ar., employee may be granted leave with straight time pay during regularly scheduled hours of work for the period of time authorized by the University. The granting of such leave and the period of time shall be at the sole, non-grievabie discre hon of the University.
6.	University Functions
At the sole, non-grievable discretion of the University rind on a campus basis and within a campus basis, an employee may be granled leave during regularly scheduled hours of work to attend Commencement exercises, Charter Day exercises and other University meetings or functic ns as designated by the University. Such leave, when granted, shall be without loss-of-straight-time pay.
ARTICLE 15 LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION BUSINESS
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	Employee Eligibility for Leave
For each campus/hospltal/lab with more than 500 bargaining unit employees the University shall grant no more than two FTE (261 days ) paid reimbursed leave or reduction in time for union business per calendar year without loss of compensation. For each campus/hospital/laboratory with less than or equal to 500 bargaining unit employees the University shall grant mi more than one FTE (130 days) paid reimbursed leave or reduction in time for union business per calendar year without loss of compensation. However, only one employee shall be released per department per leave. The University nee :i not grant the leave when it can demonstrate compelling business needs, or if a liampus/hospital/laboratory has fewer than fifty (50) bargaining unit employees. Th i> University may postpone the leave when it can demonstrate compelling business needs.
2.	Pay Status
During die paid reimbursed leave, the employee shall be paid by the University and shall continue to accrue service credit; and shall mtain all benefits to which the employee was entitled prior to the start of the cave. Employee benefit contributions will continue to be deducted during the lea ?e.
a.	During the paid reimbursed leave, the empkyee shall be eligible for increases in accordance with campus practices.
b.	Any leave granted in accordance with this sec:ion shall not constitute a break tn service.
c.	During the paid reimbursed leave, the employee shall not be eligible for Workers Compensation benefits arising out of ;tn injury occurring during the leave from the University. While on paid rei nbursed leave, University employees shall be covered by UPTE's Workers Compensation carrier.
3.	Union Reimbursement
The Union shall reimburse the University for all costs of employee compensation, including but not limited to, salary plus all benefits paid to the employee for the time the employee is on leave without loss of compensation (36%). The Union shall submit payment to the University within thirty (30) days of receipt of confirmation of payment to the employee. The Unversity has the right to terminate the leave if the Union fails to provide timely pa ;ment.
4.	Long-term Leave of Absence
Upon at least thirty (30) calendar days advance-written naquest to the local Labor Relations office from UPTE and the employee, no more than one (1) per department UPTE-represented non-probationary cbreer employees per campus/hospital/laboratory shall be granted a leave cl absence to engage in
51
Union business pursuant to A.1. above. The duration of the leave of absence shall be specified at the time the employee commences the leave. No such leave shall be granted unless the written request specifies the duration of the leave.
a.	Such leaves of absence shall be for a period of not less than thirty (30) calendar days. In no situations shall the leave of absence be granted for a period of more than three (3) years.
b.	The University, due to operational requirements, may postpone the date such leave of absence is scheduled to begin.
5.	Short-term Leave
Subject to operational considerations, upon at least thirty (30) calendar days written request to the local Labor Relations office from UPTE and the employee, no more than one (1) per department non-probationary career employee, pursuant to A.1. above, will be granted a leave of absence for union business for not less than two (2) days and not longer than twenty-nine (29) days. Requests for this short-term leave shall not be unreasonably denied.
6.	Reduction in Time
The University will approve requests from employees for temporary reductions in time for up to three (3) calendar years for union business. Requests for reduction in time will not be unreasonably denied.
7.	Attendance at Local Meetings
Upon seven (7) calendar days advance written notice to her/his supervisor, local union officers and local employee representatives included on the list provided to the University by UPTE, as set forth in Section C.2. of Article 2, Access, shall be granted time off without pay or, at the employee’s option, such time would be charged to accrued compensatory time off or accrued vacation time, to attend local union meetings. Approval for such leave shall not be granted for a period to exceed four (4) hours and such approval shall not be granted to any individual employee more than once per month. The supervisor may grant additional time over four (4) hours on a case-by-case basis. The granting of such approval to local employee representatives and officers shall be subject to the operational needs of the University and may be granted to one (1) or more but not necessarily all such employees on the same shift in the same operational area. Such approval shall not be unreasonably denied.
B.	RETURN FROM LEAVE
The University shall not be required to return an employee on a leave of absence for union business prior to the return date specified at the start of the leave.
1.	For leaves longer than sixty (60) days, at least forty-five (45) calendar days prior to the completion of the long-term leave of absence, ve Union shall notify the University of the employee's intent to return to the University's employ and the employee shall likewise so advise the University. For leaves of less than 60 days, at least 15 days notice shall be required if the requested return date is other than the return date specified at the start of the leave.
2.	Upon return, the employee shall be placed in the same or similar position from which the employee took the leave of absence and at the rate of pay which would place the employee at the same relative position in the range for the position as that range exists when the employee returns. Placement of the employee in his/her previous position shall be consistent with staffing reductions and/or layoffs which may have occurred during the period of the paid reimbursed leave.
ARTICLE 16 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
A.	Management of the University is vested exclusively in the University. The parties agree that all rights not specifically granted in this Agreement are reserved solely to the University. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, UPTE agrees that the
52
University has the right to make and implement decisions re Siting to areas including, but not limited to those enumerated below. Although the University may upon request consult with UPTE concerning the following areas, the University is not obligated to bargain with UPTE as to such areas during the term of this Agreement.
B.	Examples of the rights reserved solely to the University administration and its agents and officials include, but are not limited to, the right:
1,	To establish the University's missions, programs, objectives, activities, and priorities;
2.	To plan, supervise, direct and control the use ol resources to achieve the University's missions, programs, objectives, activities, and priorities;
3.	To develop, implement and administer affirmative acti :>n programs;
4.	To establish and administer procedures, rules and regulations and determine the methods and means by which operations are to be cairied on;
5.	To introduce new or Improved methods, programs equipment, or facilities or change or eliminate existing methods, equipment, orfiicti ties;
6.	To determine the location or relocation, reorganiziition, or discontinuance of operations; to determine where employees shall wo k; or subcontract ail or any portion of any operation;
7.	To assign, reassign, and schedule work; to determine the need for overtime;
8.	To establish the size, composition, and qualifications ।;f the work force;
9.	To recruit, hire, develop, train, evaluate, promote, transfer, demote, or layoff limited appointment, career, or probationary employer is;
10.	To determine the basis for, and to determine thti amount granted for merit increases;
11.	To establish, modify, and enforce standards of perfo -mance, conduct, and safety for employees; and to determine the process by whivh employee performance is evaluated;
12.	To reprimand, suspend, release, or otherwise discip ine or discharge employees for misconduct or failure to perform satisfactorily;
13.	To maintain safety standards and programs;
14.	To determine and modify job classifications and job d e scriptions.
C.	The above enumerations of management rights are not irdusive and do not exclude other management rights not specified, nor shall the exerc ire or non-exercise of rights retained by the University be construed to mean that any righ I is waived.
D.	No action taken by the University with respect to a management right shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure or collateral suit, unless the exercise thereof violates an express written provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17 MEDICAL SEPARATION
A.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
1.	When the University determines that a non-probailonary career employee is unable to satisfactorily perform the essential assigned functions of her/his position due to disability, that employee may be medically separated. Prior to medical separation, the University will engage in the interactive process and will determine what accommodation, if any, may be reasonably provided. Such accommodation,
53
if any, shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of Article 30, Reasonable Accommodation. An employee who is medically separated is eligible for special reemployment procedures as set forth in Section E., below.
2.	Except as provided in Section A.3., below, a medical separation shall be based on:
a.	University statement describing the essential functions of the job the employee is not able to perform satisfactorily; and
b.	Any pertinent information, including medical information provided by the employee's licensed health practitioner and/or the University’s physician, and/or work-related information provided by appropriate University officials.
3.	A medical separation may also be based on the employee's receipt of long term disability payments from a retirement system to which the University contributes, such as UCRS or PERS.
4.	if an employee who is on an approved leave of absence related to a medical condition has a specific return to work date established by a health practitioner licensed by the State in which s/he practices and such return to work date is within one-hundred eighty (180) days of the beginning of leave of absence, the employee shall not, during the period between the beginning of the leave of absence and the retum-to-work date (a maximum of one-hundred eighty (180) days), be medically separated.
B.	PROOF OF DISABILITY OR OTHER MEDICAL CONDITION
Proof of the employee’s disability is required and is subject to verification by the University. When the University requests a second medical opinion as verification of disability, the University shall pay the costs of the medical examination(s) requested.
C.	NOTICE OF INTENT TO MEDICALLY SEPARATE
The University shall give the employee a written notice of intent to medically separate. Such notice shall be provided either by delivery of the notice to the employee in person, or by placing the notice of intent in the U.S. mail, first class postage paid, in an envelope addressed to the employee at the employee’s last known home address. Proof of service shall accompany the notice of intent: The notice shall:
1.	Inform the employee of the action intended, the reason for the action and the effective date of the action;
2.	Inform the employee of the right to respond and to whom to respond within ten (10) calendar days from the date of issuance of such notice of intent, in accordance with the instructions given by die University in the written notice provided to the employee. A copy of the notice of intent shall be provided to UPTE.
D.	EMPLOYEE NOTICE
After review of the employee’s timely response, if any, the University shall notify the employee of any action to be taken. An effective date of separation shall follow the employee’s timely response or, if no response is provided, shall be at least ten (10) calendar days from the date of issuance of the notice of intention to separate, pursuant to Section C., above.
E.	RE-EMPLOYMENT
1.	For a period of one (1) year following the date of a medical separation, a medically separated former non-probationary career employee may be selected for a position without the requirement that the position be publicized. However, if the former employee is receiving disability benefits from a retirement system to which the University contributes the period shall be three (3) years from the date benefits commenced. In order to be eligible for rehire under this Article, the medically separated employee must provide a medical certification from a
54
University-approved medical physician describin<i in detail the medically separated employee's ability to return to work.
2.	if a non-probationary career employee separated unc or this Article is re-employed within one-hundred eighty (180) calendar days, a breiik in service does not occur. If a non-probationary career employee is receiving disability payments from a retirement system to which the University contribute s and is re-employed within three (3) years, a break in service does not occur.
ARTICLE 18 MILITARY LEAVE
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
An employee is entitled to Reserve Training Leave for Inactive Duty, Temporary Military Leave for Active Duty Training, Extended Military Leave, Emergency National Guard Leave, and Military Leave for Physical Examinations provided that the employee gives advance verbal or written notice of the leave except when such notice is precluded by military necessity, impossibility or unreasonableness. In any event, the University may require verification of an employee's military orders.
B.	ELIGIBILITY FOR PAY AND BENEFITS
1.	General Provisions
An employee granted reserve training leave for inactive duty, temporary military leave for active-duty training or extended military 'eave is entitled to receive regular University pay for the first thirty (30) calendar days of such leave in any one fiscal year, but not to exceed the actual period of service, provided;
a.	The employee has at least twelve (12) rnonlhs of continuous University service immediately prior to the granting of ;ne leave (any prior full-time military service shall be included in calculi iting this University service requirement); and
b.	Such payment for reserve training, temporary and extended military leave in any combination, in addition to any University payment for military leave for physical examinations, does not exceed >.ne pay due for a period of thirty (30) calendar days in any one (1) fiscal yna:.
2.	Part-Time Employee. An eligible part-time emp jyee shall receive pay in proportion to the average percent of full-time worked during the three completed monthly pay periods immediately preceding the leave,
3.	Ineligible Employee. An employee not eligible for military leave pay may have such absence charged to accrued vacation or accrued compensatory time off, or the military leave may be without pay.
4.	Service Credit And Benefits. An employee on tempcrary military leave for active-duty training or extended military leave, who is not on pay status shall receive length-of-service credit, provided that the employee returns to University service at the expiration of the leave in accordance with applicable State and Federal laws. Such employee shall accrue vacation and sick leave and receive holiday pay only in accordance with Article 42 - Vacation Le iive, Article 36 - Sick Leave, and Article 10 - Holidays. If on pay status, provided Ihat the employee returns to University service at the expiration of the leave in accordance with applicable State and Federal Laws, the employee shall receive,regular benefits. Retirement benefits and service credit shall be continued in acccidance with the provisions of the applicable retirement system regulations. Healt । benefits may be continued at the employee's request and expense for the tine period outlined under the University's group insurance regulations.
C.	RESERVE TRAINING LEAVE FOR INACTIVE DUTY
Reserve training leave for inactive duty shall be granted o any employee who, as a member of a reserve component of the United States A med Forces, must perform inactive duty such as weekly or monthly meetings or wee ken ;l drills.
55
D.	TEMPORARY MILITARY LEAVE FOR ACTIVE-DUTY TRAINING
Temporary military leave for active-duty training shall be granted to any employee who, as a member of a reserve component of the United States Armed Forces, is ordered to full-time active military duty for training for a period not to exceed one hundred-eighty (180) days, including time spent traveling to and from such duty.
E.	EXTENDED MILITARY LEAVE
Extended military leave shall be granted to an employee who enlists or is ordered into active duty in the United States Armed Forces or a reserve comoonent or who is ordered into active Federal military duty as a member of the National Guard or Naval Militia. Such leave shall be granted for active-duty service of any length or for active-duty training more than one hundred-eighty (180) days.
1.	Period Of Leave. An employee shall be granted extended military leave for the initial period of enlistment, service, or tour of duty for a period not to exceed five (5) years, in addition, leave shall be granted for a period up to six (6) months from the date of release from duty if the employee requests such extension.
2.	Service Credit And Benefits. An employee granted extended military leave shall receive a lump-sum payment for earned salary, accrued vacation, and accrued overtime or compensatory time off. Upon written request, an employee may elect to retain accrued vacation on the records for a period not to exceed one hundred-eighty (180) days. Vacation credits retained on the records in excess of one hundred-eighty (180) days shall be paid out at the pay rate in effect at the time of payment, taking into account any salary increases that may have occurred in the previous one hundred-eighty (180) day period.
3.	Sick leave credit shall be retained on the records.
4.	Probationary Employee. An employee who was servinp a probationary period at the time extended military leave became effective shall be required to complete the probationary period upon reinstatement.
a.	If the probationary employee served in active military service for a period of more than thirty (30) days, s/he shall not be separated from employment by management action except for cause for six months from the date of reinstatement.
b.	If the probationary employee served in active military service for a period more than one hundred-eighty (180) days, s/he shall not be separated from employment by management except for cause for one year from the date of reinstatement.
F.	EMERGENCY NATIONAL GUARD LEAVE
Military Leave shall be granted to an employee who as a member of the National Guard is called to active duty during a state of emergency by proclamation of the Governor of the State of California. An employee who as a member of the National Guard is called to active federal military duty at the request of the President of the United States is not eligible for emergency National Guard leave, but shall be granted extended military leave as set forth in Section E.
1.	Eligibility for Pay. An employee granted military leave for emergency National Guard duty is entitled to receive regular University pay for a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days in any one fiscal year. An employee is eligible for pay regardless of the length of University service, and such pay is in addition to any University payment for reserve training leave, temporary military leave for active-duty training, extended military leave, and military leave for physical examinations.
2.	Benefits. An employee on military leave with pay for emergency National Guard duty shall receive all benefits related to employment which are granted when an employee is on pay status. If not on pay status, the employee shall receive length-of-service credit, provided the employee returns to University service immediately after the emergency service is over. Such employee shall accrue
56
vacation and sick leave and receive holiday pay in accordance with Article 42 -Vacation Leave, Article 36 - Sick Leave, and Article 10 ■ Holidays.
G.	PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Military leave with pay shall be granted to an employee in a cordance with Section B., regardless of length of service, when the employee is require :l to take a pre-induction or pre-enlistment physical examination to fulfill a commitment under a Selective Service or comparable law, or during a period of war or comparable natio ial emergency.
1.	Time off for other physical examinations in connection with military service may be charged to accrued sick leave, accrued vacation leave, or accrued compensatory time off, or shall be without pay.
2.	The University may require verification of an employee's military orders to report for a physical examination.
H.	REINSTATEMENT
Following release from military service, an employee shall hay. such right to return, and only such right, as may be required by State and Federal few in effect at the time the employee applies for reinstatement. Upon reinstatement, ;in employee shall receive salary range adjustments applicable to the employee's position during the military leave as provided by the Agreement.
ARTICLE 19 MOVING EXPENSES
A.	POLICY
Payment for moving expenses may be granted by the University when an employee moves from one University work location to another University work location at the University's request. No expenses shall be paid to an employee if the University determines that the new work location is within reasonable commuting distance of the previous location.
B.	EXPENSES TO BE PAID
Expenses approved in advance by the University and support i:d by invoices and receipts may be paid for costs incurred for packing, insurance, trans portation, storage in transit (not to exceed 30 calendar days), unpacking, and instruction of the employee's household effects at a new location. Actual travel expense* for the employee and the employee’s immediate family may be paid by the University, not to exceed air coach transportation cost and/or the University allowance for individuals for the cost of meals en route for the employee and the employee’s immediate family.
C.	LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY
Policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, calculations and rates relative to moving expenses at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory shall be in accordance with Laboratory policy for other staff employees at the Laboratory.
D.	The terms of this Article are not subject to grievance and aibitration provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 20 MULTIPLE APPOINTMENTS
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
Employees with multiple appointments will be covered by the provisions of this Agreement only for the time in which the employees are woiking in any appointment(s) which would place her/him in the unit, except that the lime worked in per diem appointments is covered only by the provisions listed in Article 27 - Positions.
57
B.	BENEFITS/ RETIREMENT
In the event an individual has multiple appointments, the employee shall be eligible to participate in the benefits/retirement provided in Article 40 - University Health and Welfare Benefits and/or Article 41 - University Retirement and Savings Plan.
ARTICLE 21 NO STRIKES
A.	During the term of this Agreement or any written extension thereof, the University agrees that there shall be no lockouts by the University. UPTE, on behalf of its officers, agents, and members agrees that there shall be no strikes, stoppages or interruptions of work, or other concerted activities, including sympathy strikes, which interfere directly or indirectly with University operations during the life of this Agreement or any written extension thereof, UPTE, on behalf of its officers, agents, and members, agrees that it shall not in any way authorize, assist, encourage, participate in, sanction, ratify, condone, or lend support to any activities in violation of this Article.
B.	Any employee who violates this Article shall be subject to discipline up to and including termination of employment, in accordance with Article 6 - Corrective Action, Discipline and Discharge.
C.	UPTE shall immediately take whatever affirmative action is necessary to prevent and bring about an end to any concerted activity in violation of this Article. Such affirmative action shall include but not be limited to: sending written notice to the home address of all employees engaged in prohibited activity informing them that the concerted activity is in violation of this Article, that engaging in such activity may lead to disciplinary action, and stating that employees engaged in prohibited activity must cease such activity and immediately return to work.
D.	Nothing herein constitutes a waiver of the University's right to seek appropriate legal relief in the event of a violation of this Article.
ARTICLE 22 NONDISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
Within the limits imposed by law or University policies, the University shall not discriminate against or harass employees on the basis of race, color, religion, marital status, national origin, ancestry, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, physical or mental disability, medical condition, (cancer-related or genetic characteristics) covered veterans status as defined by the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Act (VEVRA)), age, citizenship, or union activity or affiliation. For the purposes of this Article only, medical condition means any health impairment related to or associated with a diagnosis of cancer, for which a person has been rehabilitated or cured based on competent medical evidence.
General discrimination-related issues not related to any individual’s specific complaint may be raised in the labor/management meetings defined in Article 46 - Workplace Committees, Section A or B.
B.	GRIEVANCES
1.	For discrimination complaints to be eligible for processing under the grievance procedure:
a.	The complaint must be eligible in accordance with Section B.2., 3., or 4., below, and
b.	The employee or her/his representative must file a grievance at Step 1 within thirty (30) calendar days of the date the employee knew or should have known of the alleged discrimination.
2.	Allegations of a violation of this Article alone are subject to the Article 8-Grievance Procedure of this Agreement through Step 2 only.
58
3.
An alleged violation of this Article and a non-arbitrablE* Article shall be subject to the grievance procedure insofar as the other Article is <)rievable, although it shall not be subject to Arbitration.
4.	Allegations of a violation of this Article, when made in connection with a provision of another Article that is grievable beyond Step 2. shrill be eligible for appeal to the same degree that the contract provisions to which he grievance is connected is grievable and/or arbitrable.
C.	SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMPLAINT RESOLUTION PROC i-DURE
With regard to grievances alleging sexual harassment, an employee who has timely filed a grievance may elect to substitute the campus/hospital/laboratory Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution procedure for Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure. Use of the Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution procedure shall toll ihe time limits for Step 1 of the Grievance Procedure only if a grievance has been timely :iied, pursuant to Article 8, Grievance Procedure, Section F. At any time, an employee, may elect to resume the regular grievance procedure in place of foe alternate procedure by written notice to the University. The University's Step 1 Grievance response will bi issued within fifteen (15) calendar days after such notice to return to Step 1 of thd Grievance Procedure is received by the designated campus/hospital/laboratory official.
ARTICLE 23
OUT-OF-CLASSIFICATION ASSIGNMENT!!
A.	TEMPORARY REASSIGNMENT TO POSITIONS WITH A HIGHER SALARY RANGE MAXIMUM
1.	When the University temporarily assigns an employee to perform fully the functions of a position in a higher classification for at least fifteen (15) working days or more:
a.	The employee shall be reclassified to the hi gher level position or be provided an administrative stipend.
b.	The employee will be paid at least four percent (4%) over his or her current pay rate or the minimum of the higher pbsition’s range, whichever is higher. If the employee is temporarily reclassified to a higher position, the salary of the new position shall not exceed tne maximum salary of the higher level position.
c.	Such pay will become effective on the sixteen h day of foe assignment retroactive to the first day of foe assignment.
2.	The University shall determine the duration and end dati i of such assignment.
3.	Such temporary assignment and resulting pay increase, if any, shall not result in
the permanent reclassification of the employee.
B.	TEMPORARY REASSIGNMENT TO POSITIONS WITH A LOWER SALARY RANGE MAXIMUM
1.	The University may temporarily reassign employees o positions with a lower salary range maximum.
2.	An employee who is temporarily assigned to perform this duties of a position in a lower classification shall continue to receive the employee’s regular rate of pay. Such temporary assignment shall not be considered a layoff.
C.	SHIFT CHARGE DIFFERENTIAL
When the University, at its sole discretion, assigns an employee temporary charge duties a charge differential of $1.25 per hour shall be paid when an employee is assigned such duties for their entire shift. For foe purpose of identifying charge duties, examples may include but are not limited to:
59
1.	Tracking staff attendance and time.
2.	Overseeing daily review and spot-check of others' work, verifying accuracy and completeness.
3.	Preparing staff schedule to pre-established staffing levels, ensuring appropriate coverage.
4.	Providing direction for personnel, prioritizing and facilitating workflow to ensure timely delivery of services.
5.	Serving as a lead resource person taPresolve problems as they occur in the work unit.
It is understood that these types of duties are not exclusively charge shift duties and may be assigned in whole or in part to others without the requirement of the differential payment.
The University’s determination of the necessity to assign, or not to assign temporary shift change assignments is not subject to the Article 8, Grievance and Article 3. Arbitration provisions of this contract.	\
ARTICLE 24 PARKING
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	The University shall provide to employees covered by this Agreement parking and parking-related services at each campus/hospital/laboratory to the same extent and under the same conditions as normally provided for other University staff employees at the employee's location.
2.	It is understood and agreed that parking spaces designated for employees may from time to time be eliminated or reassigned due to construction, special events, and/or operational needs of the University.
B.	MEET AND DISCUSS PARKING RATE CHANGES
1.	At least forty-five (45) calendar days prior to a campus/hospital’s/laboratory's implementation of new or changed parking fees to be charged to employees of this unit, the University shall inform UPTE of its intent to establish or change parking charges.
2.	UPTE shall have fifteen (15) calendar days from receipt of the University's notice to request that the University meet with UPTE to discuss the changes.
3.	Upon receipt of a timely written request from UPTE, the campus/hospital/ laboratory shall schedule a meeting to discuss with UPTE the new or changed parking charges. Such meeting shall occur within fifteen (15) calendar days following UPTE's request to meet. Continuation of discussions beyond the implementation date specified in the notice to UPTE shall not preclude the University from implementing the new charges on the d ite specified in the notice to UPTE.
C.	LOCAL PARKING MEETINGS
Local Labor/Management Meetings may be scheduled upon request to address alternative transportation and incentives.
D.	GRIEVANCES
UPTE may grieve the implementation of the parking fee without forty-five (45) calendar days' notice, with the remedy being limited to the reimbursement to affected employees covered by this Agreement of the difference between the new fee and the old fee for the number of days the notice provided was less than forty-five (45) calendar days. Otherwise, the establishment and implementation of new or changed parking services or charges are at the sole, non-grievable, non-arbitrable discretion of the University.
60
E.	PARKING ENFORCEMENT AT LBNL
LBNL Parking Policy, RPM 1.04, including the referenced Paridng Enforcement System for LBNL Employees and Non-Employees Eligible for Parking Privileges, describes penalties for parking violations as "discipline' or 'disciplinary 'action.* For the purposes of this policy only, the term "discipline" or "disciplinary action" ior parking violations means parking sanctions (e.g,, suspension or revocation of parkit ig privileges) and/or vehicle immobilization as described in the policy. Disciplinary or corrective action up to and including dismissal as specified in Article 6, Corrective Acticn, Discipline and Discharge, shall not be imposed fbr parking violations in and of themselves. This does not prevent the Laboratory from disciplining an employee whose violati :m of this policy rises to the level of misconduct under the terms of Article 6, Corrective Action, Discipline and Discharge.
Records of parking violations and any related parking san tons that may be imposed shall not be included in the employee's personnel file. Hoi«ever, copies of disciplinary actions for violations of this policy that rise to the level of misconduct will be placed in the employee's personnel file as in the case of any other disciplinary action.
ARTICLE 25 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
A.	EVALUATION
1.	Performance Evaluation is a constructive proc ass to acknowledge the performance of an employee. An employee's evaluation shall be sufficiently specific to inform and guide the employee in the performance of his/her duties. The evaluation of each employee shall be based cri the individual employee’s performance and not on financial considerations.
2.	The University will, sixty (60) calendar days prinr to implementing a new performance tool, provide a copy of the proposed tool to UPTE. Following request by UPTE, the University will meet with UPTE io discuss the new tool.
3.	Performance evaluation is not in and of itself a discip! nary procedure.
4.	An HX Unit employee who receives an overall "needs improvement" rating shall have been informed of any deficiencies, including1 information about how to correct said deficiencies prior to receiving such overall evaluation.
5.	The performance of each employee will be evaluated at least annually, in accordance with a process established by the University. In the event a non-probationary career employee does not receive he written evaluation, the employee may take the following action:
a.	Within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date' the written evaluation was due but not received, the employee shall make a written request for the evaluation to the employee’s immediate supervisor. When an employee makes such a request an evaluation shall be Completed within fifteen (15) calendar days of the request, unless the partie i: mutually agree otherwise.
b.	In the event a non-probationary career em ployee does not receive a written evaluation and fails to request that tin evaluation be completed within the required period of time, the employee’s overall evaluation shall be “meets expectations."
B.	EMPLOYEE RESPONSE TO AN EVALUATION
After receiving a University' performance evaluation, an emjtovee may write comments pertaining to her/his evaluation or add relevant materials, winch may supplement or enhance the evaluation. When the University receives isuch written comments or materials from the employee, they shall be attached to the erformance evaluation and placed in the employee’s personnel file in which performance Evaluations are maintained.
61
C.	GRIEVABILITY
1.	A non-probationary career employee who receives a written performance evaluation with an overall rating of less than satisfactory may file a grievance pursuant to the provisions of Article 8 - Grievance Procedure of this Agreement. Such grievance concerning the contents of the performs ice evaluation rating the employee as less than satisfactory shall be eligible to be processed through Steps 1 and 2 of the Grievance Procedure but shall not be eligible for review at Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure. The remedy for such a grievance shall be limited to revision of the section(s) being grieved and revision of the rating(s) in question.
2.	Disputes arising regarding the performance evaluation of employees, including but not limited to, the form, timing, procedure, impact and effects, shall not be subject to Article 8 - Grievance Procedure or Article 3 - Arbitration Procedure of this Agreement, with the exception of Section C.1., above.
ARTICLE 26 PERSONNEL FILES
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	Location Of Personnel Files
Personnel files may be located in an employee’s employing department and/or the campus/hospitaVlaboratory Human Resources Department.
2.	Information in the Files
a.	An employee’s personnel fife(s) contain information pertaining, but not limited, to; employment, such as the application for employment, tests, and letters or statements of reference; pay and benefits; training; conduct; education, honors and awards; duties and job classification; performance; discipline, release, and dismissal actions; attendance; and other relevant or necessary information specified by the University.
b.	Copies of letters of disciplinary action, along with copies of proofs of service that accompany the letters, upon being provided to an employee, shall be placed in the employee’s personnel file(s). The employee’s written comments, if any, regarding such letters shall be placed in her/his personnel file(s). Such comments shall not require the University to change or alter the letters or the actions indicated by the letters.
c.	Letters of disciplinary action shall, upon written request of the employee, be removed from the employee’s personnel file(s) if there have been no other disciplinary actions of the same or of a similar kind for a period not to exceed two (2) years. Materials which would be removed upon an employee's request which are more than two (2) 'ears old will not be used or relied upon to take or support disciplinary action. The employee shall receive the written request and the document(s) back.
d.	Upon the employee's written request, counseling memoranda and/or written records of discussions will be removed from the employee's personnel file if there have been no other such memoranda relating to, or disciplinary action on, the same or similar issue(s) for a two-year period not to exceed two (2) years. Counseling memoranda and/or written records of discussion, in and of themselves, are not discipline nor are they grievable/arbitrable.
e.	Items placed in an employee's personnel file shall contain the date of the document’s creation and its source.
62
B.	EMPLOYEE AND/OR REPRESENTATIVE REVIEW OF PEI ISONNEL FILE(S)
An employee shall upon advanced notice have the opportunity to review her/his personnel file(s), as described in Section A., above, with Ti a reasonable time in the presence of a representative of the University.
1.	An individual of the employee’s choice may accomp; i ny the employee when the employee is reviewing her/his personnel file(s).
2.	Alternatively, an individual employee may authorize a designated representative to review the employee's personnel file(s) on the emp loyee's behalf. Such written authorization shall be valid for a period of thirty (30) celendar days from the date of the signature of the authorization or within a whiter time limit specified by the employee.
3.	When the employee has chosen a member of the HX b isrgaining unit to assist in the review of the file(s), that person’s release time shal' be in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
4.	An employee shall be granted a reasonable amour I of time in without-loss-of-straight-time pay status to review his/her personnel iile(s) within the operational needs of the department.
C,	PROTECTED INFORMATION
Records protected by recognized legal privilege and records excepted from disclosure by law may be withheld from the employee and/or the employee is representative.
D,	GRIEVANCE-RELATED FILES
Records involving the processing of an employee’s grieve nee, such as the grievance form, step appeals/responses, and settlement documents, wilt be kept in a file separate from the employees' personnel file. It is not the intent of thir section to exclude from the employee's personnel file final disciplinary action document!., including those that result from a settlement agreement.
E.	DUPLICATION COSTS
Employees shall receive, without cost, a first copy of docum ■rnt-j. or extracts thereof, that are located in her/his personnel file. However, employees m.; y be charged the same fees as are customarily charged other staff employees for additional copies of documents in the employee's personnel file.
ARTICLE 27 POSITIONS
A.	CAREER POSITIONS
1.	Career positions are positions established at a fixe d or variable percentage of time at fifty percent (50%) or more of full-time, which -are expected to continue for one (1) year or longer.
2.	In addition, beginning on January 1, 2001 a ciireer appointment may be established by conversion from a limited appointmer'! pursuant to Section B.2. of this Article.
B.	LIMITED APPOINTMENTS
1.	A limited appointment is established at any percenters of time, fixed or variable, during which the appointee is expected to be on pay status for less than one thousand (1,000) hours in a rolling twelve (12)-month period.
2.	In the event that a limited appointment employee a.':ains one thousand (1, 000) hours of qualifying service within a rolling 12-mont'i period, without a break in service of at least one-hundred twenty (120) consecutive calendar days, the incumbent’s appointment shall convert to career. The University shall notify the employee of conversion.
63
a.	Qualifying service includes all time on pay status in one or more limited appointments at the campus/hospital/laboratory. Pay status shall not include on-call or overtime hours.
b.	Such career conversion shall be effective on the first day of the month following attainment of one-thousand (1000) hours of qualifying service.
c.	Any break in service of one-hundred twenty (120) days or longer shall result in a new 12-month period for purposes of calculating the 1000-hour requirement.
3.	Employees in limited appointments may have their appointment terminated or have their time reduced at the sole discretion of the University and without recourse to the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement. An employee who is appointed to a limited appointment is automatically terminated as of the last day of the appointment unless there is an earlier separation or a formal extension of the appointment.
C.	PARTI AL-YEAR POSITIONS
1.	General Provisions
Partial-year positions are career positions established with regularly scheduled periods during which the incumbents remain employees but are not at work. These scheduled periods during which employees are mt at work are designated as furloughs and are without pay. Furlough periods are not to exceed a total of three (3) months in each calendar year. Partial-year career positions may be established as nine-, ten- or eleven-month appointments.
a.	When calculating time in pay status during a calendar year the University shall include any period of time for which an employee receives pay for time worked, including compensatory time off, or for time on paid leave. Paid leave time includes sick leave, extended sick leave, vacations, holidays, or military leave with pay. The one-month’s pay for extended military leave lump-sum payments for terminal vacation do not represent time on pay status.
b.	Whenever it appears that an employee will be unable to achieve nine (9) months on pay status in a calendar year, the University may assign the employee to perform additional work according to classification and skills in an attempt to achieve nine (9) months on pay status. Once an employee has reached her/his appointment rate, additional scheduling will occur in accordance with the needs of the University and the qualifications of the employees.
2.	Distribution of Salary over the Year
Employees with partial-year career appointments may choose either to receive paychecks during pay periods worked only, or to distribute their pay so that they will receive twelve (12), or the biweekly equivalent, paychecks throughout the year. Employees who occupy partial-year career positions and who elect the pay over twelve (12) months option must occupy the partial-year career position at least nine (9) months or the biweekly equivalent before receiving pay during the furlough period.
3.	Benefits
a.	An employee in a designated partial-year career position shall be provided the University's contribution to the cost of University-sponsored life, medical, vision, dental, and disability while s/he is on furtough for a maximum of three (3) months in a calendar year where the employee's earnings are insufficient to otherwise generate the University's contribution. For medical plans, which require an employee contribution, employees on furlough must remit to the University the amount of the employee's contributions for the plan to remain in force.
64
b.	Time on furlough is not qualifying time for service computation for seniority or for vacation leave, sick leave, or holiday pay when furloughed absences exceed twenty (20) days in a month.
4.	Reassignment
The reassignment of an employee in a full-time career position to a partial-year position or to a part-time position at a fixed or variable percentage of time shall be considered a reduction in time and must be carried nut in accordance with the provisions of Article 13, Layoff and Reduction in Time.
D.	PER DIEM POSITIONS
1.	Definition
a. This Article sets forth the terms and condition i of Per Diem employment. Requirements for maintaining Per Diem Employee status are established by the University, and may vary at each locafcti. Per Diem Employees are those employed in University title codes as listed in Appendix A-1, A-2, and A-3. Per Diem Employees are neither career nor limited appointment employees. Standards of the University's position descriptions must be met as follows:
i.	Per Diem Employee work assignmen t add to or substitute for career and limited appointment employees on a pre-scheduled basis or as needed on a day-to-day busis, as determined by the University. Per Diem Employees r'iay be scheduled or not scheduled, or called off from a pre-established schedule. Additionally, a Per Diem Employee's eligibility for scheduling may be discontinued at any time at the sole’ discretion of the University and without recourse to the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement, except as set forth in S ection D.3. of this Article.
ti. Per Diem Employees are not eligible fur benefits under Article 40, University Health and Welfare Benefits; Night rates for Per Diem employees may include shift differentia . Per Diem Employees are not eligible for paid time off such as vacation, sick leave, holidays, leaves of absence, or educational leavn. At the mutual agreement of the University and the Per Diem E,r>('oyee, her/his Per Diem Employee status may be temporarily held in abeyance. The University will not unreasonably dem; a Per Diem Employee's request that her/his status be held ii. abeyance for family care purposes.
2.	Coverage
Per Diem Employees are covered by the following Articles of this Agreement: Article 2 - Access, the related portion of Article 5 - Compensation, Article 7 - Dues Deduction, Article 9 - Health and Safety, Article 11 - Hours of Work section B.5.C., Article 12 - Job Posting, Article 16 - Management Ricpts, Article 21 - No Strikes, Article 22 - Nondiscrimination in Employment, Artichi 24 - Parking, Article 26 -Personnel Files, Article 27 - Positions, Article 30 - R iiasonable Accommodation, Article 32 - Release Time for Bargaining, Article 34 - Severability, Article 43 -Waiver, Article 44 - Work Rules, Article 47 - Duration. Per Diem Employees may use the grievance and arbitration procedures of this / Agreement only with respect to alleged violations of those Articles that cover thiim, except as set forth in Section D.3. of this Article.
3.	Special Per Diem Rights
Effective January 1, 2002 and as amended March 30, 2007, Per Diem employees who work one-thousand (1,000 hours) (seven hu idred-fifty (750) hours for Student Health Center Per Diem employees) exclusive of overtime and on-call hours, within the following twelve-month (12 month) fieriod, and who provide the University with a commitment to work in the future ht least fifty percent (50%) time, will be eligible for coverage by Article 6 - Corrective Action, Discipline and
65
Discharge and the related portions of Article 3 - Arbitration Procedure and Article 8 - Grievance Procedure.
a.	Failure to comply with the minimum scheduling requirements may result in release from employment at any time at the sole discretion of the University and without access to Article 8 - Grievance Procedure.
b.	In the event a Per Diem employee rescinds her/his fifty percent (50%) work commitment, or fails to work fifty percent (50%) time or one-thousand (1000) (seven hundred-fifty (750) hours for Student Health Center Per Diem employees) hours as scheduled within a twelve (12) month period, s/he waives her/his right to Articles 3 - Arbitration Procedure, 6 -Corrective Action, Discipline and Discharge, and 8 -Grievance Procedure.
4.	Overtime
Overtime will be paid at the time and one-half (1-'/iX) overtime rate in accordance with campus practices.
5.	Reporting
a.	Requirements
Where required, the Per Diem Employee shall call in to verify the availability of work prior to reporting for work. Where the Per Diem Employee is not required to call in to verify the availability of work, the campus/hospital/laboratory shall notify the Per Diem Employee of the unavailability of work in advance of her/his scheduled report time by telephoning the Per Diem Employee at the Por Diem Employee's last known telephone number. It shall be the responsibility of the Per Diem Employee to inform the University of any change of telephone number.
b.	Reporting Pay/Work
A Per Diem Employee who reports for work as scheduled without receiving prior notice that her/his assignment is not available, shall perform any work to which s/he may be alternately assigned by the University for the duration of the assignment. If no alternate work is available, the Per Diem Employee shall be paid two (2) hours pay in lieu of work. In the event that the University has made reasonable attempts to notify the Per Diem Employee of the unavailability of work, or where the Per Diem Employee has not called in to verify the availability of work when required to do so, work or pay need not be provided.
6.	Premium Pay for Work on Specified Holidays
A Per Diem Employee who works on Christmas Day shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-%X) the regular rate of pay for the hours actually worked.
7.	Worker's Compensation
A Per Diem Employee who is injured on the job may apply for Workers' Compensation.
8.	Professional Development
a.	Per Diems are encouraged to pursue professional development and education in relation to their career in health care.
b.	Per diems shall be reimbursed for the costs of educational programs that are required and approved by the university. Time spent in such educational programs shall be considered time worked.
c.	A per diem shall pay the same fees as other health care professionals at his/her campus/hospital/laboratory for continuing education in health care professional courses sponsored by the University/Medical Center departments at his/ her location.
66
9.
Service Credit On Hire Into Career Status Position
Per diem HX Unit employees who have worked at Ie ast sixty (60) shifts in the six (6) months immediately prior to being hired into a causer position in the same area will have three (3) months credit applied agaiiist the continuous service requirement for completion of the probationary [ieriod. Further evaluations conducted during per diem status, or other infomniition obtained by University management, may serve in lieu of the three (3) month probationary period evaluation.
E.	REHIRED RETIREES
Rehired Retirees working in positions covered by this unit will be eligible to elect to waive future retirement accruals to the same extent that other rehir nd retirees in staff positions are eligible.
F.	LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY
The definitions of temporary and indeterminate positions in e fleet at PERB's certification of UPTE-CWA Local 9119, on September 15,1999, shall remain in effect.
ARTICLE 28 PROBATIONARY PERIOD
A GENERAL CONDITIONS
1.	Employees in career appointments in the unit shall serve a probationary period during which time their work performance and general suitability for University employment will be evaluated. The probationary peri ;d is completed following six (6) months of continuous service at one-half (%) timi or more without a break in service. Time on leave with or without pay is nc! qualifying service for the completion of the probationary period.
2.	Employees who are rehired following a break in sen ice of one year or less shall not be required to serve a new probationary period, provided:
a.	Rehire occurs In the same class and specialty vithin the same department, and
b.	The rehired employee had regular status in that class at the time of termination.
Otherwise, rehired employees serve a probationary period.
B.	CREDIT FOR TIME SERVED IN LIMITED APPOINTMENTS
1.	An employee whose appointment is converted from a limited appointment to a career appointment under the provisions of Article 27 Section B.2., who has worked in the same appointment into which s/he is directly converted to career status, will have such time in that appointment appl isd against the probationary period. For the purposes of this provision, 'same appointment* means an appointment in the same department/unit with the sanie duties as the appointment to which the individual was assigned prior to conversion and reports to the same supervisor as s/he did in a limited appointment.
2.	A non-career employee in a limited appointment who has at least six (6) months of continuous service at 50% time or more in a non-cateer appointment and who is appointed or is converted in accordance with Article 7 - Positions/Appointments, Section B.2. to a career position with substantially uirr/'ar job duties shall have three (3) months service credit toward completion of t sr/his probationary period in the new career position.
C.	EVALUATION DURING PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The University shall conduct one written performance evaluation prior to the completion of a full probationary period.
67
D.	EXTENSION OF THE PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Under appropriate circumstances, e.g., change of supervision or transfer to a different job during the probationary period, the probationary period may be extended at the discretion of the department head. Such an extension shall Ln for a specific period of time, but not for more than three (3) months.
E.	RELEASE DURING PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Prior to the completion of the probationary period, an employee may be released at the sole discretion of the University and without recourse to the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 29
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND EDUCATIONAL LEAVE
A.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
1.	Employees are encouraged to pursue professional development and education in relation to their career in health care.
2.	Employees shall be reimbursed for the costs of educational programs required and approved by the University. Time spent in such educational programs shall be considered time worked.
3.	Employees attending University courses or seminars shall be eligible for fee reductions applicable to other employees at their campus/hospital/laboratory. Employees attending University courses or seminars shall not be eligible for the services or facilities or counseling centers, gymnasia, or student health services incidental to such reduced-fee registration.
4.	Nothing in this Article shall prevent the University from granting additional professional development and/or educational opportunities.
B.	RELEASE TIME AND SCHEDULING
1.	An employee who has completed her/his probationary period, who wishes to participate in a professional development and educational leave program and who meets the qualifications listed below, shall request advance approval in accordance with departmental procedures. Such requests shall only be denied based on operational considerations.
2.	Professional Development and Educational Leave:
a.	May not be accumulated.
b.	Must be scheduled according to staffing requirements; however, the University shall make reasonable efforts to accommodate requests.
c.	When used for Continuing Education Units, must be used to take available UC-sponsored courses; however, the University will make reasonable efforts to accommodate requests for non-UC sponsored courses.
d.	Must be documented with proof of participation.
e.	May be used to participate in hospital-sponsored in-service training, which is not required by the University.
3.	Forty (40) hours paid professional development and educational leave relating to the employee's health care career will be provided to full-time employees per contract year.
a.	A contract year is normally defined as July 1 - June 30. If a contract begins after July 1, a proportionate number of professional development and educational leave hours will be provided based on the actual duration of the contract.
68
b.	In addition, a part-time career employee's yearly entitlement shall be prorated based on her/his appointment rate.
c.	Up to*twelve (12) hours of the forty (40) hour maximum of paid leave may be utilized for appropriate home study/ interne i. courses. Time used under this section shall not be accrued or paid its premium overtime. The University will consider requests for use of m<jre than 12 hours for use for home study/intemet courses on a case by casu basis.
d Career employees and Special Per Diem employees (as defined in Article 27 - Positions, section D.3.) at UC Berkeley, UC Riverside, UC Santa Cruz and UC Santa Barbara Student Healih Centers may use up to sixteen (16) hours of the forty (40) hour maximum of paid leave during non-scheduled time. Part-time employees etl these locations may use prorated time pursuant to Section B.3.b. atjove. Time used under this section shall not be accrued or paid as premium overtime.
4.	Employees who are scheduled to take the examination which would grant a state and/or nationally recognized certification, and who inquest the examination day off in accordance with the unit's scheduling procedures, shall be assigned paid professional development and educational leave for the day on which the examination is taken.
5.	An employee, assigned to the evening or night siiift, who is scheduled for a continuing education course or a certification examination, shall be scheduled off from the evening or night shift immediately preceding or following the course or examination when:
a.	The unit scheduling policies have been followed; and
b.	The course is eight (8) hours duration outside scheduled work time; or
c.	The examination is conducted by a statu or nationally recognized
professional organization.
C.	EQUIPMENT TRAINING
1.	In the event that the University introduces new equipment at any teaching campus/hospital/laboratory which materially affects work performed by an HX Unit employee subject to this Agreement, the University shall provide adequate training on new equipment and/or methods of practice Such training shall not be deducted from the forty (40) hour annual maximum ir, Section B.3 of this article.
2.	In foe event the University introduces new equipment at any teaching campus/hospital/laboratory that is not required fcr an individual's immediate position, the University may offer cross-training witliin a department/sub-unit on the new equipment to employees who have made request to their supervisor. This provision is only grievable through Step 2 of the grievance process.
ARTICLE 30
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
The University provides reasonable accommodation to otherwise qualified employees who are disabled or who become disabled and need assist imcr to perform the essential functions of their positions, as required by federal and state r law. The interactive process shall be used to determine what, if any, reasonable accommodation will be made. Reasonable accommodations shall be provided in tt’“ following, non-exclusive, scenarios:
1.	When an employee with a disability needs an Erccommodation to enable him or her to perform the essential functions of the position;
2.	When an employee with a disability needs an Enrcommodation to enable him or her to gain access to his or her workstation; -iind
69
3.
When an employee with a disability needs an accommodation to enjoy equal benefits and privileges of employment.
B.	THE INTERACTIVE PROCESS
1.	Upon receipt of an employee’s request for an accommodation, the parties will engage in the interactive process, which is an ongoing dialogue between the employee and appropriate representatives of the University about possible options for reasonably accommodating the employee’s disability. Options may include, but are not limited to: assistive devices; modification of existing facilities; and restructuring the job. Both the University and the employee are expected to participate in the interactive process, so as to ensure timely, good faith communications and a reasonable accommodation, if any, for the employee with a disability. The employee may have his or her representative participate in this dialogue.
During the interactive process the University considers information related to: the essential functions of the job; functional limitations; possible accommodations; the reasonableness of possible accommodations; and implementation of a reasonable accommodation. This information will be used by the University to determine what, if any, reasonable accommodation will be made.
2.	a. The University will process requests for reasonable accommodation and provide accommodations where reasonable and appropriate and in as short a time frame as reasonably possible. The parties recognize, however, that the time necessary to process a request will depend on the nature of the accommodation requested and whether it is necessary to obtain supporting information.
b. Should an employee wish to receive an update as to the status of his/her request, he/she may contact the assigned University representative. The University representative will respond to the employee’s request for updated information in a timely manner.
C.	MEDICAL DOCUMENTATION
The employee is responsible for providing medical documentation from a licensed health care provider, specifying the employee’s functional limitations as they pertain to the job and without providing diagnostic information. This documentation may also include the licensed health care provider’s suggestions about potential accommodations. When necessary, the University may require that the employee be examined by a University appointed licensed health care provider. In such a case, the University shall pay the costs of any medical examinations requested or required by the University.
The University will maintain the confidentiality of all medical information pursuant to applicable state and federal laws.
D,	NON-RETAL1ATION
No employee may be retaliated against because of a previous or pending request for a reasonable accommodation, whether or not the accommodation was or will be provided.
E,	SPECIAL SELECTION FOR OTHER POSITIONS
An employee who becomes disabled may be selected for a position without the requirement that the position be publicized.
F.	REASSIGNMENT
When other accommodations are not effective in allowing the employee to perform the essential functions of his or her position reassignment to an active, vacant position for which the employee is qualified with or without accommodations, may be required. The employee with the disability will have a choice to accept or reject the reassignment. The University will attempt to accommodate the employee’s request by reassigning him or her to a position within his or her same department.
70
G.	DENIAL OF REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION
If the University determines that it cannot reasonably accommodate an employee, it must give the reason(s) for its decision in writing to the employee who requested the accommodation within five (5) days of denying the request.
ARTICLE 31 RECLASSIFICATION REVIEW
A.	An employee may request a review of the classification of tf loir position. The review shall be based on the employee’s job description, as approved t iy their supervisor. Requests for reclassification shall be processed by the University office responsible for reclassification review.
B.	If the employee makes the request for review of a classification and the supervisor fails to respond within 30 calendar days, the employee may forward the request to the designated University office responsible for classification review.
C.	The salary adjustment, resulting from a reclassification, if iriy, shall be retroactive to the first day of the month following the date on which the reque it to the designated University office was received.
D.	The University’s decision to reclassify or not to reclassifr is not subject to either the grievance or arbitration procedures.
E.	An employee may request a review of a decision denying i; reclassification. The request for a review shall be made in writing to the Human Resou ties Office within 30 calendar days of the date on which the reclassification decision w.iis issued. The request shall state the basis upon which the employee is requesting a re i'iew. The result of the review shall be issued in writing by a representative of the Human Resources Office. The representative who issues the second decision may not be the same individual who performed the initial review.
ARTICLE 32
RELEASE TIME FOR BARGAININCI
A.	UPTE shall designate as a bargaining team member not more than one (1) active status University HX-Unit employee per medical center, (for a to ::il of five (5)) and one from a campus student health center, for a total of six (6) bargaining team members from the HX Unit. UPTE shall provide in writing the names of the designated permanent members of its bargaining team to the Office of Labor Relations at leasihhirty (30) calendar days prior to the first scheduled bargaining session. In the event andesignated member is to be permanently replaced, the name of the permanent replacement shall be communicated in writing to the Office of Labor Relations. The Office of Labe..- Relations shall acknowledge in writing the newly designated permanent replacement, aiid inform the appropriate work location. Such notification of a permanent replacement s hall be made to the Office of Labor Relations two (2) workweeks prior to the first schec tiled bargaining session to be attended by the replacement employee. Designated team members who are members of the bargaining unit may be released from their work assignments without loss of straight-time pay to attend scheduled bargaining sessions. Alternate or substitutes for any of die designated team members may be permitted when UPTiii has provided the University with the name and work location of the replacement at leaJt two (2) weeks in advance of the date of the change, unless the parties agree to a shorter notice period.
B.	No more than a total of six HX-Unit employees shall be in without-loss-of-straight-time pay and benefits status for attendance at scheduled bai gaining sessions for the unit, including reasonable travel time to attend bargaining sessions. Without-toss-of-stralght-time-pay status shall be provided only for bargaining se ssions, and only for the days which the member would have been scheduled to wor': had the member not been released from his/her work assignments to attend scheduled bargaining sessions. The hours for which any of the designated union bargaining learn members are in without-loss-of-straight-time-pay status shall not exceed the baniaining team member's actual scheduled work hours for any one day of a scheduled bargaining session and shall not exceed forty (40) hours per week. Time in without-loss'of-straight-trme status for the purpose of bargaining shall not count in the calculation of overdme, and will not result in
71
any double payment for the hours in such status. Deviation from this paragraph may be made only by mutual agreement of the parties on a case-by-case basis.
C.	Bargaining sessions are defined as the pre-scheduled face-to-face meetings, and related caucuses during meeting days, for the purpose of negotiating terms and conditions of an Agreement. If no meeting actually takes place during the scheduled meeting day as the result of the University's unavailability to appear at the bargaining table, or the University agrees that a full-day union bargaining team caucus is necessary to the bargaining process, the University may designate a day without a face-to-face meeting as a "bargaining session",
D.	PRE-BARGAINING RELEASE TIME FOR PREPARATION - SUCCESSOR NEGOTIATIONS
UPTE may request up to three (3) days of paid release time and two (2) days of unpaid release time for up to six (6) HX-unit employees (no more than one (1) per cam pus/medical center or campus student health center) for purposes of preparation for successor bargaining.
The three (3) days of paid release time referenced above are contingent upon the University receiving a complete set of proposals on the first day of bargaining, as distinguished from the initial set of proposals accompanying UPTE's notice to the University of its intent to negotiate a successor agreement. If the Union fails to present a complete set of individual proposals on the first day of bargaining for each proposed open article, the three (3) days of paid release time will convert to unpaid release time.
E.	An employee designated as an HX-Unit bargaining team member shall provide his/her supervisor with written notice of their intent to attend scheduled bargaining sessions as soon as practicable following the scheduling of bargaining sessions. A bargaining team representative may be denied release time for bargaining, either in paid or unpaid status, if his/her supervisor is not provided at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior notice of his/her need for release time, unless the parties agree to a shorter notice period,
F.	UPTE shall provide an attendance roster at the end of each bargaining session.
G.	Reasonable travel time means actual travel, via the most expeditious method of
transportation available, to and from scheduled bargaining sessions for the designated employees.
H.	Attendance by a bargaining team member at scheduled bargaining sessions shall constitute fulfillment of the employee’s work obligation for that day.
I,	The University shall make a good faith effort to modify a bargaining team member's work schedule in order to accommodate his/her participation in bargaining sessions. This good faith effort includes making an effort to prevent a bargaining team member, who regularly works other than a Monday - Friday schedule, from being scheduled to work and bargain more than his/her standard number of days per week.
ARTICLE 33
RESIGN ATION/JOB ABANDONMENT
A.	RESIGNATION
1,	Employees who voluntarily separate from employment with the University, other than retirement, are considered to have resigned thbir employment with the University.
2.	Upon the employee’s submission of a written notice of resignation there shall be no withdrawal or rescinding of the resignation except by the written mutual agreement of the University and the employee.
3.	In the event an employee provides an oral notice of resignation, s/he may rescind such notice within two (2) scheduled work days following the oral notice. If such oral notice is not rescinded within the two (2) work-day limit, there shall be no withdrawal or rescission of her/his resignation except by the written mutual agreement of the University and the employee.
72
4.
Final Paycheck
a.	With the exception of retirement, the final paycheck (including earnings to date, overtime, compensatory time and vacation hours) shall be paid to the employee in a timely manner, normally, within seventy-two (72) hours. If the employee gave seventy-two (72) hoi i s or more notice, the final paycheck will be provided on the last! day of work. Retirement compensation shall be provided pursuant to nitirement plan regulations.
b.	When an employee does not give seveny-two (72) hours notice of intention to resign, the University shall make.the final paycheck available within seventy-two (72) hours. Upon the enployee’s request, the final paycheck may be mailed to an address d rsignated by the employee. Otherwise, it will be mailed to the employee’l l last known mailing address on file. If the date of pay falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or weekday holiday, actual payment may be on the next business‘day. Monday through Friday will be considered business days at all locatic ris including Medical Centers and other 24-hour/7-day operations.
B.	JOB ABANDONMENT
Failure to report to work as scheduled for five (5) consecuti re vork days may be treated by the University as abandonment of, and resignation frorii, the employee's University position.
1.	In the case of job abandonment/resignation, the University shall provide the employee with written notification of its intent to sepe rate her/him. This notification shall include the reasons for the separation, the emp oyee's right to respond to the University within fourteen (14) calendar days, ar.cl a Proof of Service. The notification shall be sent to the employee's last know ) mailing address.
2.	The employee shall have fourteen (14) calendar d;iys from the mailing of such notice to respond to the University prior to her/his separation. The response may, at the option of the employee, be in writing or may b<i a meeting with a designated University official. The official must have the authority to effectively recommend reinstatement of the employee.
3.	Following the employee's timely response or failure to respond within fourteen (14) calendar days the University official shall issue ;i final decision.
4.	The University’s final decision is not subject to the grievance and/or arbitration provisions of this agreement.
C.	The University shall notify the employee in writing at the e nployee's last known mailing address of all actions taken under the provisions of the Artic1'".
ARTICLE 34 SEVERABILITY
If any provision of this Agreement is found to be contrary to I iiw by a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be of no force or effect; but the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. The parties shall meet e'.id confer in good faith with respect to any provision found to be in contravention of the law in "imder to agree on a substitute provision.
ARTICLE 35 SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
Eligible employees assigned to an evening or night shift shall be paid a shift differential for all hours including overtime which are worked, in arcokance with the following provisions. Shift differential rates by location are listed hi Appendix A. Work that is scheduled during the evening or night hours on the basis of convenience to the employee
73
shall not be considered an assigned evening or night shift for the purpose of receiving shift differential.
Exempt employees, while generally not eligible for shift differential payments, may be eligible for payments as identified in Appendix A.
B.	EVENING AND NIGHT SHIFTS
An evening or night shift differential shall be paid for all hours of a shift when four hours or more of a shift are worked after 5:00 p.m. and before 8:00 a.m.
C.	DAY SHIFT EMPLOYEE ELIGIBILITY FOR SHIFT DIFFERENTIALS
An employee regularly assigned to a day shift of eight hours or longer shall be paid a shift differential for overtime hours when:
1.	The overtime hours are worked after 5:00 p.m. and before 8:00 a.m.,
2.	The total overtime hours in one 24 hour day are equal to at least one-half (1/2) of the number of regular hours in the employee's day shift, and
3.	The overtime is not compensated at a premium rate.
D.	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT TO SHIFT WITHOUT A DIFFERENTIAL
When an employee who usually works on an evening or night shift is temporarily assigned to a day shift for a period of four working days or less, the employee shall continue to receive any shift differential. A temporary change of four working days or less in shift assignment initiated by the employee is not covered by this provision.
E.	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL WHEN ON PAID LEAVE
The shift differential shall be included in payments for all types of paid leave, provided that the employee would have been expected to work that shift or shifts if the employee were not on paid leave.
F.	SHIFT ASSIGNMENTS TO TITLES WITHOUT ESTABLISHED SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL RATES
Prior to assigning a shift differential rate to a classification that does not have an established rate, the University and UPTE must negotiate the shift differential rate to be assigned to that classification.
G.	LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY
Policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, covered hours and rates in effect at PERB's certification of UPTE-CWA Local 9119, on September ’ 5, 1997, shall remain in effect for employees at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and shall supersede the provisions of this article where in conflict.
ARTICLE 36 SICK LEAVE
A.	ACCUMULATION OF SICK LEAVE CREDIT
1.	After a campus/hospital/laboratory implements the Factor Accrual System, an eligible employee shall earn sick leave credit at the rate of .046154 hours per hour on pay status, including paid holiday hours but excluding all paid overtime hours.
2.	For a campus/hospital/laboratory retaining the Table Accrual System, an eligible employee shall earn sick leave credit at the rate of eight (8) hours per month for full-time employment. Sick leave credit is earned proportionately, as set forth in the Sick Leave Credit Table below, for hours on pay status over one-half (1/2) of the full-time working hours of the month but less than full-time.
3.	Until a campus implements the Factor Accrual System current accrual practices will remain in place.
74
SICK LEAVE CREDIT TABLE Number of Hours on Pay Status
160-Hour* Month Earned	168-Hour* Month	176-Hour* Month	184-Hour* ■ Month	Percent of time on Pay Status	Hours of Sick Leave
					
0- 79	0- 83	0- 87	0- 91	0- 49	0
80- 89	84- 94	88- 98	92 -103	50- 56	4
90-109	95- 115	99-120	104-126	57- 68	5
110-129	116-136	121 -142	127-149 '69- 80		6
130 -149	137-157	143 -164	150-172 J 81 - 93		7
150-160	158-168	165 -176	173-184 , 94-100		8
* Hours on pay status, including paid holiday hours, but excluding all paid overtime hours.
4.	An employee must be on pay status tor at least or e-half (1/2) of the working hours of a month or quadri-weekly cycle to earn sick hiave credit forthat month or quadri-weekly cycle. Time on pay status in excess iif a full-time work schedule does not earn sick leave credit. Sick leave is earned during leave with pay. For the purposes of this Agreement, a quadri-weekly cycle,is defined as two bi-weekly pay periods designated by the University to be considered as one unit for the purpose of leave accrual.
5.	For employees on either system, earned sick have for each month or quadri-weekly cycle is credited on the first day <if the following month or quadri-weekly cycle, except that proportionate sick Jaave credit for an eligible employee who is separating from employment shall bn credited at the completion of the last day on pay status.
6.	The number of sick leave hours that may be accumulaied is unlimited.
B.	ELIGIBILITY AND USE OF ACCUMULATED SICK LEAVE
1.	General Provisions
a.	Requests for the use of sick leave shall be made in accordance with campus or departmental procedures.
b.	Sick leave is to be used for medical appointments with advance approval, personal illness or personal disability; and for Ilie death or serious illness of others as provided in Section B.3. and Sectkin B.4., below. In the case of medical appointments, a request for nick leave shall not be unreasonably denied.
c.	Sick leave shall not be used prior to the time it in credited. Sick leave shall not be used in excess of the employee's normally scheduled hours or work for the day or days for which the sick leave is ch limed. Sick leave shall not be used beyond a predetermined date of sepa ation, including retirement or layoff, or beyond a predetermined date beg’nning a leave of absence without pay.
d.	Exempt Employees - Except as provided n Article 14, Leaves of Absence, records of sick leave used shall be recorded in one (1) day increments only or in increments of not less than that portion of a day during which an employee on less than full-tirhe pay status is normally scheduled to work. When an exempt employee has exhausted all accrued sick leave, salary shall not be reduced for absences of less than one (1) full day or less than that portion of a day during which an employee on less than full-time pay status is normally scheduled to work.
e.	Non-Exempt Employees - Records of accrued nick leave usage shall be
maintained to the nearest quarter (1/4) hour.
75
2.	Pregnancy
A pregnant employee on approved leave without pay on the date certified by her doctor as the date on which she is no longer able to work or the date of delivery, whichever is earlier, can use sick leave beginning with that day and continuing through the period that she is physically unable to perform the normal duties of her job.
3.	Care of Others
Up to thirty (30) days of accumulated sick leave per year may be used when the employee is required to be in attendance or to provide care of either:
a.	The serious illness of the employee's parent, spouse, same or opposite sex domestic partner, child(ren), brother, sister, grandparent, grandchildren, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, or step-relatives; or any other person for whom the employee has a personal obligation who is residing in the employee's household; or
b.	The employee's spouse, parent(s) or child(ren), suffering from a "serious health condition" as defined in Article 14, Leaves of Absence, Section B.1.d.
c.	Sick leave granted under this section may be used to offset unpaid Family Care and Medical Leave granted pursuant to Article 14, Leaves of Absence.
4.	Bereavement
Sick leave for bereavement purposes may be used as follows:
a.	Up to five (S) days of accumulated sick leave per year may be used when attendance is required due to the death of the employee's parent, spouse, same or opposite sex domestic partner, children, brother, sister, grandparent, grandchildren, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or step-relatives; or any other person for whom the employee has a personal obligation who is residing in the employee's household.
b.	in the event an employee has a personal obligation for a person other than someone listed above in Section B.4.a., the employee shall be permitted to use up to five (5) days of accrued sick leave per calendar year for funeral attendance/bereavement, subject to management approval.
5.	Illness While On Vacation
If, while on vacation, an employee becomes ill and is under the care of a physician and submits a physician’s statement, l> s employee may use accumulated sick leave for that personal illness. Sick leave may not be used for illness of a family member during the employees' vacation.
C.	SICK LEAVE PAY
Sick leave is paid at the employee's straight-time rate of pay including any shift differential, provided that the employee would have been expected to work that shift or shifts if not on sick leave.
D.	SICK LEAVE NOTIFICATION AND VERIFICATION
1.	No sick leave pay shall be payable to an employee unless the employee's immediate supervisor or designee is notified of the illness/disability and the probable duration thereof as soon as possible, but in no event later than the beginning of the employee’s work day except when the University determines that the employee’s failure to notify is due to extreme circumstances beyond the control of the employee. No time for which the employee has requested and/or received sick leave authorization may be charged to accumulated/anticipated
76
compensatory time, leave with pay, vacation, or holida y time, except as provided in Article 14, Leaves of Absence.
2.	Any employee who anticipates a series of three (3) or r nore medical appointments which will require a repeated use of sick leave, or who knows in advance the date and/or time of scheduled appointments, shall inform hi:;/her immediate supervisor of the anticipated or known schedule of treatment.
3.	The University may require reasonable documentation of an employee's sick leave absence when an absence exceeds three (3) consecutive scheduled days of work, or for shorter periods when:
a.	Notice has been provided to the employee prior to his/her return to work, that documentation will be required, or
b.	The employee has been given advance written notice that documentation wilt be required.
4.	Employees who have unscheduled absences due to il aass on a scheduled work day preceding or following a holiday or vacation miiy be required to bring a medical verification of illness to the employee's supiionsor on the employee's return to work in order for the absence to be authorized:
5.	When the University requires medical documentation, it shatl be from a health practitioner licensed by the state in which he/she practices to diagnose and certify illness or disability or from an authorized representative of a recognized treatment program.
6.	The University may have an employee who is claiming disability examined by a physician or physicians of its choosing, in accordance, with Article 14, Leaves of Absence. The University shall pay the reasonable costs of any such medical examination and may send the employee to a physiciar i of its choosing.
7.	An employee may be denied the ability to use his/her a creed sick leave when the employee is absent due to illness when the University lias determined that his/her repeated use of sick leave is abusive, and has given tc.the employee prior written notice that accrued sick leave use may be denied on fu :ure instances of illness.
E.	TRANSFER AND REINSTATEMENT OF SICK LEAVE
1.	Transfer/Promotion/Demotion To Positions Covered By This Agreement
a.	An employee transferred, promoted, or demoted without a break in service to a position that does accumulate sick leave shall have any accumulated sick leave transferred.
b.	An employee transferred, promoted, or demoted to a position that does not accumulate sick leave shall have his/her accumulated sick leave held in abeyance. If the employee subsequently moves without a break in service to a position that does accumulate lick leave, the previously accumulated sick leave shall be restored.
c.	An employee who has been laid off and is recal'sd or preferentially rehired within the employee's period of recall or preferential rehire eligibility shall have all sick leave accumulated from prior service reinstated.
2.	Reemployment in Positions Covered By This Agreemer it
a.	An employee re-employed from University service or State of California service into the bargaining unit after a break in Service of less than fifteen (15) calendar days shall have all sick leave accumulated from prior service reinstated if the new position is one which accur nutates sick leave.
b.	An employee re-employed in this bargaining unil utter a break in service of more than fifteen (15) calendar days but less Ihan six (6) months shall have sick leave accumulated from prior service iip to a maximum of eighty (80) hours reinstated. For purposes of this Se ition E.2. only, "sick leave
77
accumulated from prior service" includes sick leave accumulated in State of California service.
3.	Transfer/Promotion/De motion to Positions Not Covered By This Agreement
a.	An employee who is transferred, promoted, or demoted into a position not covered by this Agreement shall have the accumulation, use, and transfer of sick leave governed by the policies and/or contract covering employees in that unit or personnel program.
b.	This Article shall apply to employees with split/multiple appointments in accordance with the provisions of Article 20, Multiple Appointments.
F.	CONVERSION OF SICK LEAVE ON RETIREMENT
Upon retirement, members of the University of California Retirement System shall have their accumulated sick leave converted to retirement service credit for each day of unused accumulated sick leave.
G.	CATASTROPHIC LEAVE
When the University implements a catastrophic leave program at a campus/hospital/laboratory, or a department at any of these locations, the provisions of the program shall apply equally to eligible employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 37 SUBCONTRACTING
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	The University retains the right to subcontract all or any portion of operations. When the University decides to subcontract, and such subcontract will result in the layoff of employees in the bargaining unit, the University will provide UPTE with a copy of the Request for Proposals (RFP) seven (7) calendar days after it is issued. In the event no RFP is issued and the subcontract will result in bargaining unit employee layoffs, the University will give at least sixty (60) calendar days notice prior to the commencement of work by the contractor.
2,	Prior to the commencement of the work that has been subcontracted and following receipt of a timely request from UPTE, the University shall meet with UPTE to discuss the effects of subcontracting upon bargaining unit employees who may be laid off. Failure to conclude such discussions, if any, prior to the date on which the subcontracted work begins, shall not preclude the University from implementing the subcontracting on the date agreed upon by the University and the subcontractor or the layoff of employees pursuant to Article 13 - Layoff and Reduction in Time.
B.	DISPLACEMENT OF EMPLOYEES
1.	Except as provided below, the University of California will not contract out services that result in the layoff of non-probationary career bargaining unit employees.
2.	Examples of instances in which a contract for such services may be appropriate include:
a.	The need to obtain special services and equipment that are not available internally;
b.	The need to obtain special expertise or efficiencies that are better provided through an outside contractor than by the University; and
c.	Financial necessity.
3.	Where financial necessity is the reason for the exception, before contracting for work which is fully or partially supported from state funds, including those at the
78
teaching hospitals, the University shall first seek funding from the Legislature to address the financial necessity.
4.	When the University has determined to contract for services, it will provide UPTE with a copy of any RFP within 7 calendar days after il is issued pursuant to A.2., above. Such notice shall demonstrate the approprialeness for the contract, in accordance with section B., above.
a.	If UPTE asks to meet with the University aboul the proposed contract for services, such a meeting will occur as soon «is practicable following the University's receipt of the request. The m neting will not delay the commencement of the contract.
b.	If UPTE believes that the University failed to ccmply with the provisions of Section B., above, it can file a formal compl Hint with the Office of the President, Office of Labor Relations. The office of the President shall make the final determination as to whether the contract meets the conditions in Section B. The Office of the President decision is not grievable or arbitrable.
C.	EFFECT OF CONTRACT ON EMPLOYEES
To minimize the effects of layoff, when a non-probationar' career bargaining unit employee is notified ot layoff because the University entered i nn a contract for services that the employee performed, the University will make available another bargaining unit position for which the employee is qualified. The position will be at the same campus/hospital/laboratory from which the employee was laid off. Where the provisions in this article are inconsistent with the provisions of Article 13 ■■ Layoff and Reduction in Time, the provisions of this Article and Section shall control.
1.	The available position shall be offered at the same duration, percent time, and appointment type held by the employee when displaced.
2.	The available position shall be offered at the same ba& > rate of pay earned by the employee when displaced.
3.	The right to be offered a position pursuant to this secti on shall begin on the date an employee is notified of layoff (displacement).
4.	The right of the displaced non-probationary career employee to be offered a position pursuant to his section shall terminate upon anreptance or refusal of the offered position at the same base rate of pay.
5.	A displaced non-probationary career employee who ref i ises an offered position at the same base rate of pay shall be placed in layoff statu:
D.	Nothing in this article shall be interpreted as prohibiting actiori. which must be taken to establish or maintain eligibility for any federal program, contract or grant - including the contract requirements contained in the agreement between the University and the Department of Energy - where ineligibility would result in a Ions of federal funds to the University of California.
ARTICLE 36
TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
Employees are eligible to receive travel reimbursement in accordance with applicable University or Laboratory policies and/or procedures.
B.	REIMBURSEMENTS
1.	The policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, calculations, covered hours and rates relative to travel reimbursement(s) shall tie applied, changed, or implemented for employees covered by this Agreement in the same manner as for other staff employees in the University, except as provided in Section C., below.
79
2.	The University may determine, on a department-by-department basis and consistent with the Business and Finance Bulletin, the requirements for reporting travel expenses.
3.	Reimbursement rates reflect the maximum daily reimbursement provided for specific subsistence expenses, including meals. Only actual reasonable expenses may be reimbursed, including but not limited to mileage, transportation, toll fees, and parking fees.
4.	When subsistence expense(s) are paid directly by the University, the employee's per diem reimbursement eligibility will be reduced accordingly.
5.	University-approved out-of-state lodging expenses will be reimbursed based on the expenses actually incurred as supported by receipts, provided the University gave prior approval for or requires actual-expense reimbursements.
C.	LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL LABORATORY
Policies, procedures, definitions, qualifications, calculations, covered hours and rates relative to per diem rates at the Laboratory shall be applied, changed, or implemented for employees covered by this Agreement in the same manner as for other staff employees at the Laboratory.
ARTICLE 39 UNIFORMS
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
Uniforms are attire required by the University to be wom in the performance of assigned duties.
B.	PURCHASING AND REIMBURSEMENT
1.	The University shall have the sole discretion to determine if a uniform shall be worn, who shall wear a uniform and the conditions under which it must be wom.
2,	Where the University currently provides either uniforms or reimbursement for uniforms and, for as long as the University continues its requirement that the uniform be wom, it will provide either the uniform or the reimbursement for the uniform at the current rate.
C.	LAUNDERING
Where laundering of uniforms is currently provided by the University, such laundering shall continue while the requirement for uniforms continues.
ARTICLE 40
UNIVERSITY HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
A.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
Eligible employees may participate in a number of benefit programs generally available to other eligible staff employees of the University.
B.	HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
1.	The University health and welfare plans provide an annual open enrollment period during which eligible employees may elect to change plan or coverage options. During open enrollment changes can be made for any reason. Employees may want to make changes due to changes in circumstances of the employees, changes in the coverage and costs of each plan, and changes in plan availability which may change from year to year. The University may, at its option, during the term of this Agreement, alter its health and welfare programs. Such alterations include, but are not limited to altering eligibility criteria, establishing new coverage, altering or deleting current coverage, altering employee and University rates of contribution, or changing
80
the carrier for established benefits plans or programs. I i the event the University makes such alterations, the changes will apply to employees eligible for benefits within the unit in the same manner as they apply to other eligible staff employees at the same campus/hospital/laboratory. The sole exception - to the above shall be any alterations proposed by the University which affect only bargaining unit employees. In such case, the University agrees to meet and confer will! respect to the proposed change.
2.	For calendar years 2007, 2008 and 2009, the University’s maximum monthly rates of contribution for bargaining unit employees who are eligible rtor and elect to enroll in a health plan shall be the same as the contribution rates fo1 such plans for other staff employees.
3.	For calendar years 2007, 2008 and 2009, costs that exceed current University contributions, and employee costs for plans to which, the University does not contribute, are to be paid by unit employees, normally throtijh payroll deduction.
4.	The parties will engage tn re-opener bargaining beginning on or about May 1, 2009 over this article as outlined in Article 47 - Duration.
C.	EFFECT OF ABSENCES FROM WORK ON BENEFITS
1.	Temporary Layoff/Temporary Reduction In Time/Furlouilh
Health plan contributions by the University will be provided for unit employees, in accordance with Section C, below, when the employee affected by the following conditions lasting up to 4 months: a temporary layoff;* a temporary reduction in time below the hours required to be eligible for health benefits; or a furlough. For health plans to remain in force, employees on temporally layoff or furlough must comply with the terms of the applicable plan documents1 rules and/or regulations.
2.	Military Leave
An eligible employee on military leave with pay for e rtergency National Guard duty or Military Reserve Training Leave shall receives those benefits related to employment that are granted in the University’s Military Leave policy and its related documents.
3.	Leaves Of Absence Without Pay
a.	Approved leave without pay shall not be considered a break in service and, except as provided in Section 3.c., be\w, shall not determine eligibility for benefits.
b.	Except as provided in Section 3.C., below, Nin eligible employee on approved leave without pay may, in accordar.;:« with the benefit plan documents, rules and regulations, elect to continue University-sponsored benefit plans for the period of time specified i n th h benefit plan documents, rules and regulations.
c.	An employee on an approved federal Family M sdical Leave Act (FMLA) leave shall be entitled, if eligible, to continue p iirticipation in health plan coverage (medical, dental, and vision) as if on pey status for a period of up to twelve (12) workweeks in any 12-month perio :l. However, an employee who exhausts her entitlement to health planj coverage while on an approved Pregnancy Disability Leave that runs concurrently with federal Family and Medical Leave, shall not be entiled to an additional 12 workweeks of health plan coverage under the California Family Rights Act. Other group insurance coverage shall be continued in accordance with the provisions of the applicable group insurance regulations.
D.	ENUMERATION OF UNIVERSITY BENEFITS
For informational purposes only, a brief outline of benefit progr iims in effect on the date the Agreement is signed is found in Appendix B. UPTE undersi lands and agrees that the descriptions contained in Appendix B do not completely describe the coverage or eligibility requirements for each plan, the details of which hiive been independently communicated to UPTE.
81
Specific eligibility and benefits under each of the various plans are governed entirely by the terms of the applicable Plan Documents, custodial agreements, University of California Group Insurance Regulations, group insurance contrr-cts, and state and federal laws. Employees in an ineligible classification are excluded from coverage, regardless of appointment percent and average regular paid time. For details on specific eligibility for each program, see the applicable documents, agreements, regulations, or contracts.
E,	JOINT BENEFITS COMMITTEE
The University and UPTE will establish a Joint Benefits Committee that will meet at least four times annually to discuss employee benefits. The Joint Benefits Committee will review benefits plans prior to their finalization with benefits providers.
1.	The University will provide information on specifications, cost, usage, surveys and evaluations of benefits plans.
2.	UPTE will provide responses, identify problems and issues and share any union evaluations or surveys of benefits plans.
3.	The University will grant release time for up to four career employees, not more than one per campus/hospital/laboratory to participate in this committee. Release time is without loss of straight time pay and will allow for reasonable travel time,
F.	REDUCED FEE ENROLLMENTS
If the University determines to provide reduced fee enrollments to qualified retired annuitants, it will apply to retired members of the HX bargaining unit to the same extent as for any staff employees.
ARTICLE 41
UNIVERSITY RETIREMENT & SAVINGS PLANS
A.	GENERAL CONDITIONS
Eligible employees may participate in a number of retirement programs generally available to other eligible staff employees of the University,
B.	RETIREMENT AND SAVINGS PLANS
1.	The University maintains several retirement and savings plans for eligible University employees. As of September 1, 2006, such plans include but are not limited to the UC Retirement Plan (UCRP), Tax-Deferred 403(b) Plan, Defined Contribution Plan (DCP) and 457(b) Deferred Compensation Plan which collectively constitute the University of California Retirement System (UCRS). The University may, at its option, amend and/or template the existing UCRS plans, to the extent permitted by law and consistent with the plan terms, and establish new retirement and/or savings plans for the UCRS. In the event the University makes such alterations, the changes will apply to employees eligible to participate in the UCRS plans within the unit in the same manner as they apply to other eligible staff employees at the University. The sole exceptions to the above shall be 1) any alterations proposed by the University which affect only bargaining unit employees and 2) any alterations proposed by the University which reduce the UCRS retirement benefits of bargaining unit employees. In such cases, the University agrees to meet and confer with respect to the proposed change(s).
2.	Effective with this Agreement and through June 30, 2009, the amount and timing of employee contributions, if any, to the UC Retirement Plan will be the same as those paid by employees of the Research Support Professionals (RX) and/or Technical (TX) Units. See UCRP Side Letter.
3.	The parties will engage in re-opener bargaining beginning on or about May 1, 2009 over this article as outlined in Article 47 - Duration,
4.	In the event this Agreement expires, the parties agree that the terms of this Article 41 - University Retirement and Savings Plans, preserve the status quo and will
82
continue in full force and effect unless otherwise expressly modified by mutual agreement of both parties.
C.	EFFECT OF LEAVES OF ABSENCE
1.	Leaves of Absence Without Pay
Approved leave without pay shall not be consider i d a break in service. The regulations of the retirement system determine the effects of such leave without pay on retirement benefits.
2.	Family Medical Leave Act
Retirement benefits shall be continued for an employee on an approved Federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave in accordan ::e with the provisions of the applicable retirement system regulations.
D.	ENUMERATION OF UNIVERSITY RETIREMENT & SAVINCIS PLANS
For informational purposes only, a brief outline of retirement and savings programs in effect on the date the Agreement is signed is found in Appendix B. UPTE understands and agrees that the descriptions contained in Appendix B dc< not completely describe the coverage or eligibility requirements for each plan, the entails of which have been independently communicated to UPTE.
Specific eligibility under each of the various plans is govern* id entirely by the terms of the applicable Plan Documents, custodial agreements, an:i state and federal laws. Employees in an ineligible classification are excluded frijm coverage, regardless of appointment percent and average regular paid time. For details on specific eligibility for each program, see the applicable documents, agreements, regulations, or contracts.
ARTICLE 42 VACATION
A. VACATION CREDIT
1.	An employee is eligible to accumulate vacation ore Jit If appointed at fifty percent (50%) or more of full-time for a period of six (6) montiis or more.
2.	Until a campus implements the following Factor Accrual System, current accrual practices will remain in place.
3.	After a campus implements the following Factor Accrual System, an eligible employee shall earn vacation credit each month or quadri-weekly cycle based on the number of hours on pay status for that month or quadri-weekly cycle at the following rates:
Years of Qualifying Service	Per Hour on Pav Status*		Approximate I Maximum Yearly	j	'^cumulated Earning** 	1 ala nee
Less than 10		.057692	15 days	-40 hours
10 but less than 15		.069231	18 days	-88 hours
15 but less titan 20		.080769	21 days	II36 hours
20 or more		.092308	24 days	: I84 hours
	Former A& PS Vacation Schedule		
Years of		Per Hour	Approximate
Qualifying		on	Yearlj;
Service		Pav Status	Eamiria
Less than 5		.057692	15 days
5 but less than 10		.069231	18 days
10 but less than 15		.080769	21 days
15 or more		.092308	24 days.
83
*	Hours on pay status, including paid holiday hours, but excluding all paid overtime hours.
*	* Full-time rate.
4.	For campuses retaining the Table Accrual System, and for the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, an eligible employee shall earn vacation credit each month based on the number of hours on pay status for that month at the following rates:
a.	Ten (10) hours per month for a full-time employee with less than ten (10) years of qualifying service;
b.	Twelve (12) hours per month for a full-time employee with at least ten (10) but less than fifteen (15) years of quali/.’ing service;
c.	Fourteen (14) hours per month for a full-time employee with at least fifteen (15) but less than twenty (20) years of qualifying service; and
d.	Sixteen (16) hours per month for a full-time employee with twenty (20) years or more of qualifying service.
5.	A month of service at one-half ('/i) time or more is a month of qualifying service.
6.	Employees in titles formally covered by the Administrative & Professional Staff
Program (A&PS) as of June 30,1996 (these titles are marked in Appendix A with an asterisk), shall continue to accrue vacation under the A&PS schedule until whichever event occurs first: a break in service of four (4) or more months, or transfer out of the unit. Upon return to University service after a break in service of four or more months, or to the unit from a position outside the unit, such an employee shall earn vacation in accordance with Section A.3. or 4, above.
7.	An employee is eligible to earn vacation credit from her/his date of hire, prorated in accordance with the above, if appointed at fifty percent (50%) or more of full-time for a period of six (6) months or more. An employee who is not eligible to earn vacation because of a part-time or short term appointment becomes eligible to earn vacation after six (6) continuous months or quadri-weekly cycles on pay status at fifty percent (50%) time or more. Time on pay status in excess of a full-time work schedule does not earn vacation credit.
8.	Earned vacation for each month or quadri-weekly cycle is credited on the first day of the following month or quadri-weekly cycle, except that proportionate vacation credit for an eligible Employee who is separating from employment shall be credited at the completion of the last day on pay status. A full-time employee on the Factor Accrual System may earn vacation credit to a maximum stated in Section A.3., above. A full-time employee on the Table Accrual System may earn vacation credit to a maximum of two times (2X) the employee's annual accumulation rate. A part-time employee may earn vacation credit to the same maximum number of hours as a full-time employee with comparable years of service.
B,	VACATION SCHEDULING
1.	An employee may request vacation. When vacation schedules are established, they shall be established in accordance with normal scheduling practices and in accordance with the needs of the University. Criteria used in establishing vacation schedules include, but are not limited to: the employee's skills and skill level, previous usage of the same time period by an employee in the previous year, the employee's preference for vacation dates, staffing levels, and/or the employee's length of service in a manner determined by the employing unit.
2.	An approved vacation request shall not be unreasonably canceled.
3.	The University will endeavor to respond to an employee's additional vacation
request(s) within fifteen (15) calendar days of her/his request for use of vacation.
84
C.	VACATION LEAVE RECORDS
1.	Exempt Employees
Except as provided in Article 14, Leaves of Absence, records of vacation used shall be recorded in one (1) day increments only, or iik increments of not less than that portion of a day during which an employee on lens than full-time pay status is normally scheduled to work. When an exempt employee has exhausted all accrued vacation, salary shall not be reduced for absences of less than one (1) full day, or less than that portion of a day during whit li an employee on less than full-time pay status is normally scheduled to work.
2.	Non-Exempt Employees
Records of vacation used shall be maintained to the n rarest quarter (%) hour.
D.	VACATION CREDIT USE
Vacation credit is accumulated from the date of hire. An employee may use vacation following completion of the probation period, but no vacation shall be used prior to the time it is credited, except as provided in Article 4: Campus Clciiure.
E.	VACATION MAXIMUMS
1.	Prior to the date on which an employee's vacation ere sit will reach the maximum allowable accumulation, the University shall provide her/him with at least ninety (90) days notification.
2.	The employee shall request dates for use of the vacai ion at least sixty (60) days prior to the maximum accumulation. Upon request, an Employee shall be granted vacation before the employee's accumulated credit re inches the maximum. If a vacation cannot be authorized due to operational cor siderations, the employee shall have an additional three (3) months in which to tai ie vacation to bring her/his accrual below the maximum. During the extension, l'acation shall continue to accrue.
F.	VACATION PAY
1.	Pay for accumulated vacation shall be at the employee’s straight-time rate including any shift differential for employees permanentl j' assigned to off-shift.
2.	An employee who separates from employment or \itio is granted extended military leave shall be paid for any accumulated vacatkp through the employee's last day of work, except that an employee who is retiring may use accumulated vacation up to the effective date of retirement.
G.	TRANSFER OF VACATION CREDIT
An employee who is transferred, promoted, or demoted to another position at a University medical center or campus in which vacation credit can be accumulated shall have any accumulated vacation credit transferred. An employee who is iransferred, promoted, or demoted to a position at a University medical center or campul in which vacation credit does not accumulate shall be paid for any accumulated vacation at the time of transfer. An employee who is transferred, promoted, or demoted to or friim a Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory position shall be paid for any accumulated vacation si the time of transfer.
H.	DONATIONS FOR CATASTROPHIC LEAVE
Any HX Unit employee may participate in a campus/hospital/l laboratory's Catastrophic lllness/lnjury Leave program, if any, in accordance with the pre visions of that location's program.
85
ARTICLE 43 WAIVER
A.	The University and UPTE acknowledge that:
1.	During the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each party had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining;
2.	This Agreement constitutes the entire contract arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity;
3.	This Agreement supersedes and replaces the specific rights and/or procedures set forth under the various personnel programs and policies, which previously applied to Health Care Professional Unit employees.
B.	As a result of the acknowledgments in Section A., above, the University and UPTE agree that, for the term of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to, or covered within this Agreement, or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered r y this Agreement, even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement.
C.	Notwithstanding Section B. above, the articles in this contract may be reopened for negotiation at any time by mutual agreement of the parties.
ARTICLE 44 WORK RULES
The University shall have the right to promulgate and to change any work rules provided:
Any such change shall not be in violation of this Agreement; and Notice of any such change shall be the greater of 45 calendar days or any notification time specified under any other Article governing the employees affected by said change. Upon receipt of a written request from UPTE, received within thirty (30) calendar days of notice, the campus/hospital/laboratory shall meet and discuss the work rule(s). In no event shall the discussions delay the implementation.
ARTICLE 45 WORK-INCURRED INJURY OR ILLNESS
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
An employee unable to perform the normal duties of her/his job due to a work-incurred illness or injury compensable under the California Workers' Compensation Act are eligible to use sick leave and vacation as provided herein. When sick leave is exhausted and when employees are still unable to work because of such illness or injury, employees may use extended sick leave or leave without pay as provided below. An approved leave of absence for work-incurred illnesses or injuries shall not be considered a break in service.
B.	RETURN FROM WORK-INCURRED INJURY OR ILLNESS LEAVE
When possible, an employee granted a Work-Incurred Injury or Illness Leave must provide the University with 30 days notice of his/her ability to return to work. Upon receipt of the release to return to work, the University shall either reinstate the employee to the same or a similar position in the same department or will determine what accommodation, if any, will be reasonably provided upon expiration of the leave. If the position held has been abolished during the leave, the employee shall be afforded the same considerations which would have been afforded had that employee been on pay status when the position was abolished.
86
C.	USE OF SICK LEAVE AND VACATION
1.	An employee who accumulates sick leave and vacation shall be permitted to use accumulated sick leave and vacation to supplement temporary disability payments received under the California Workers' Compensation Act.
2.	Sick leave and vacation payments shall be the difference between the amount payable to the employee under the Workers' Compensation Act and the Employee's regular salary.
3.	The additional payment made to an employee to provide the employee with full salary prior to receipt of disability payments shall he deemed an advance temporary disability payment within the Workers: Compensation Act. An employee who receives an advance temporary disab lity payment shall reimburse the University for such payment. The reimbursement is used to restore the proportionate sick leave and vacation credit as appropriate.
D.	EXTENDED SICK LEAVE
1.	An employee who is receiving temporary disability payments on account of a work-related injury or illness and who has exhauste :l all accumulated sick leave shall receive extended sick leave payments from I he University in an amount equal to the difference between payments from Workers’ Compensation and 80% of basic salary plus any shift differential which the employee would have received. If such employee returns to part-time University di f iles, the earnings plus any temporary disability payments, if less than 80% of basic salary plus shift differential, shall be supplemented to 80% by extended sick leave payments, provided the employee continues to be medically authorized for Workers' Compensation temporary disability. Total extended । i ick leave payments shall not exceed 26 weeks for any one injury or illness.
2.	An eligible employee who does not have sufficierj: accumulated sick leave to cover the three calendar days’ waiting peril id for receiving Workers’ Compensation payments shall receive extended sicl; leave payment to cover any part of the waiting period not covered by sick leave. 1 Payment shall be made only after determination that the injury or illness is compensable under Workers' Compensation.
3.	An employee who elects not to use all sick leave is mot eligible for extended sick leave benefits.
E.	EFFECT ON OTHER CONTRACT PROVISIONS
1.	An employee who is receiving temporary disability payments and supplemental sick leave or vacation as provided in Section C., atpve, is considered on regular pay status for all purposes except completion of t;ie probationary period. Sick leave and vacation accumulated during this period nay be used as soon as they are accumulated.
2.	An employee who is receiving temporary disability payments and extended sick (eave benefits as provided in Section D„ above, irj considered to be on regular pay status for all purposes except completion of the probationary period. However, sick leave and vacation accumulated during this period is credited to the employee only upon return to work. If an employee separates from University employment without returning to work, the employed sh .ll be paid for vacation for the period the employee received extended sick tea re pay ment.
3.	An employee on leave without pay and receiving temporary disability payments accumulates sick leave and vacation on the same :iasis as if regularly employed, but such accumulation is credited to the Employe:, only upon return to work. If the employee separates from University employment without returning to work, no payment shall be made for such vacation credit.
4.	An employee shall not use vacation, sick leave, or extended sick leave to supplement Workers' Compensation payments be/ond a predetermined date of separation or leave without pay. Any vacation credit remaining on the date of separation shall be paid on a lump-sum basis.
87
F.	LIGHT DUTY PROGRAM
Subject to operational considerations and budgetary constraints, the University will endeavor, on a case-by-case basis, to modify duties consistent ,vith documented medical restrictions, for employees who have experienced work related injuries. This section shall not be construed as a guarantee of a specific form of accommodation nor shall accommodation in one case establish a precedent for similar or dissimilar circumstances.
ARTICLE 46 WORKPLACE COMMITTEES
A.	LOCAL LABOR-MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
1.	The University and UPTE agree to meet, following UPTE's written request, up to four (4) times per year unless the parties mutually agree otherwise. Each party shall designate a chair, who shall have responsibility to make arrangements for scheduling the labor-management meeting and for drawing up the agenda. Nonemployee UPTE representative(s) may attend the meetings.
2.	Up to two (2) bargaining unit employees may be released in a wlthout-loss-of-straight-time pay status to attend scheduled meetings; provided UPTE has given the University at least fourteen (14) calendar days' notice of his/her selection. The parties may agree to allow additional unit employees to attend the meetings and may. by mutual agreement, agree to place those attenJees in a without-loss-of-straight-time status while in attendance at the meeting(s).
3.	At least seven (7) calendar days prior to the scheduled date of the meeting, UPTE shall submit the items to be included and discussed. At the meeting, the University need not respond to inquiries about items not submitted seven (7) days in advance. Appropriate agenda items for such meetings include:
a.	Administration of the Agreement;
b.	General information of interest to the parties;
c.	Health and safety matters regarding bargaining unit employees;
d.	General nondiscrimination-related issues, not pertaining to the facts of an individual employee's complaint(s);
e.	Information regarding personnel transactions and vacancies;
f.	Giving representatives an opportunity to express their views, or to make suggestions on subjects of interest to employees of the bargaining unit;
g.	Subcontracting issues;
h.	Staffing issues; and
i.	Additional items mutually agreed-to by the parties for placement on the agenda.
B.	UNIVERSITY-WIDE LABOR-MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
1.	One General Meeting And One Benefits Meeting
a.	General Meeting
The University (Office of the President, Office Labor Relations) and UPTE agree to meet, following UPTE's written request, once per year to discuss items such as the administration of this Agreement.
b.	Benefits Meeting
88
The University and UPTE agree to meet once tier year, following UPTE's written request, to discuss the benefit plans, average, benefit schedules, carriers, providers, premium rates, eligibility c'iteria and the amounts, if any, of University and/or employee contributions. The agenda of the meeting(s) shall be determined by mutual agree i. ent of the parties at least 10 workdays prior to the scheduled meeting tlaie, At that same time, UPTE must identify the names of employees for whom it is requesting paid release time, in accordance with Section C.2., bidow.
2.	Release Time
a.	UPTE may request release time for up to a tottil of six (6) bargaining unit employees but not more than one (1) employee from each campus/hospital/laboratory. Designated representatives may be released from work in a without-loss-of-straight-time status to attend the scheduled meeting(s), provided UPTE has given the Univei-sity at least fourteen (14) calendar days notice of his/her selection. The parties may mutually agree to allow additional unit employees to attend the meetings and may, by mutual agreement, agree to place those attendees in a without-loss-of-straight-time status while in attendance at the miieting(s).
b.	Release time provided shall be in accordance with the provisions of Sections A.2. and B.2.C. of this Article.
c.	Without-loss-of-pay-status release time will be provided for the duration of the meeting, and for reasonable travel time to End from the meeting. Up to a total of eight (8) hours in one (1) day release; time may be provided for attendance at a university-wide labor/managenient meeting. Any travel and subsistence incurred by the employee(s) attending the meeting(s) shall be the responsibility of the empioyee(s) or UPTE.
C.	LOCAL PROFESSIONAL PRACTICE COMMITTEES
1.	General Provisions
a.	A Practice Committee of bargaining unit employees may be established at each major medical center. Additionally, a Practice Committee of bargaining unit employees may be established' in each Student Health Center on campuses not having a major medical eenter.
b.	The purpose of the Committee is to consider and constructively recommend to the appropriate administration wa ,'s and means to improve health care professional practice and/or pa:ient care. Under no circumstances shall the committee address issues of contract interpretation or application, nor shall the committee's purpose be to address issues related to collective bargainlnii or the modification of contract terms.
c.	When feasible, the University shall provide infc nation requested by the Practice Committee within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the request. Up to once per quarter the University's itesignee shall meet with the Practice Committee at one of its scheduled meetings. Whenever the Committee makes a written recommendation to the designee, he/she shall ensure that the recommendation is coordinated with the appropriate administrator. The designee will respond to thn Committee within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the recommendat :>n unless the committee members and the University mutually agree that the time may be extended. The response may take the form of a personal discussion with committee members, or it may be in writing.
2.	Release Time
a. Paid release time will be provided for one (1) member for every one hundred (100) bargaining unit employees or major fraction thereof at the facility, provided that not more than one (1) member shall come from a particular patient care unit or equivalent. Paid release time shall not exceed two (2) hours per member in any one quarter.
89
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Link Code	TMa Coda	TMeName	Bftoctlv* Dat*	ZONE									
					MMnum		Zona 2		Zone 3		Zone 4		Maximum	
														
					Mm0*	M*.	*"•* I Mw*				IM*		IM*	iMr
			BERKELEY											
	"om"	LLrJ	| Dietitian!	64/O1W7	$3,519	$2622	$3,831	<2292	$4,140	$23.79	$4,452	$25.69	$4,761	$27.36
B E R K E L E Y	027	LJ	Sdentki SpectafeLCI Lab	64/61/6f	$5,019	$2864	$5,270	Sz9	$5,640	$32.41	$6,148	<3833	$8338	<39.<6
	TSr	LLJ Lid	Scientist, CiWcaf Lab	6lbW	$4,562	428.22	$4,791	<27.53	$5,127	$29.47	<5,590	<32.13	$8,217	$3873
	027		Sdentis£&B Leb.Per Diem	64/6-1/67	$8216	$29 <9				1 *•-’				
	027"	Lid	Physician Asst	64/0-1/67	$5,041	$2897	$5,294	<30.43	$5,668		$8,233	$3882	$7,010	$4829
	027	L±d	Physician Assistant, Per biem	(M/oi/W	$7,950	$4889								
	028	LU	Pharmacist, Sr	16/61/6-1	$4,290							1 i-;	$7,100	$40.81
	028	1^1	Pharmacist, Staff 1	0470W7	$7,385	$4244			$5,895	$32.73			$8625	<56.<2
	028	LLJ	Pharmacist, Per Diem	64/o-i/iW	$8,700	<56x0		,1 ■						
	029	LdhJ	Social Worker, Clinical III	64/61/6V	$4,409	fei4	$4,543	$2811	$4,770	<27.4l	$5,106	<29.34	$5,748	$33X3
	029	l±iU	Social Worker, Clinical II	64/ol/6?	$4,004	$2391	$4,126	$23.71	<4,333	$24.90	$4,637	<ie,66	$5,225	
	029	Ldd	Social Worker, Clinical, 1	VUb-iTtfr	$3203	<1841	$8449	<19X2	$3,692	$21.22	$3,937	$2263	$4,179	$24X2
	029		PsychometrisL Sr	04/01/07	$2,732	$1870		XT .					$4,093	$23X2
	029		r; r (Ha i « a i i ,i ।	64/61/6?	$2,377	$1888							<2330	11827
														
			BMKMke :	IU>	MKM							r.	*				5 L ' *
			•	,*	■	MM* : (■ ■ «• (MM	fff	'											
						1								s
								■ ”		’ <				
	030	9383	Psychologist II	64/61/67	$4,485	<2878	$5,047	$2901	$5,607	$32.22	$8,168	<3i.<6	$8,728	$38.67
	030	9384	Psychologist 1	64/01/6?	$4,037	$2820	$4,543	<25.11	$5,046	<29.00	$5352	$31.91	$8,055	$84X0
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Link Coda	TIM CoM	TWO HMM		ZONE									
					MMnum		Zona 2		Zonal		Zona 4		Maximum	
				Data			-							
					M*		IM* | Hao*		IM*	M*	Maae* | Hew*		mm*	M*
s A N F R A N C I s c 0	BAN FRANCISCO													
				04/01/07	18,418	$31.14								L - M
	EE3EEJ		DMIConl	04/01/07	94,487	$2537				' J			$6,024	*34.62
			\ ib ; at	ik axx	mt	timer <			b - J_								
														-*
														
														i-, t
	027	0038	SdentM Spec,Oto Lab,Sr	04/01/07	$8,247					' J			$8*441	I&51
	027	8930	SdantM SpedaBat,CI Leb	04/01/07	$5,942	$34d5							$8,018	$46.08
			MHMeaaM*	• mso	mim weo*Mpa	- iuo ■ ormm. MtOfWMtaMl ’	r»'	- m OeOl ''	1	•* 1 ' -	m	Koa©1« .											
						■»; .»						*		n
						’ s.								; J-
										,	J				
	027	8940	Sdenttoi. CUricai Lab	04/01/07	$5,857	$32.81							$7,635	*43J^
			111 SI ■ s hl I1H											
														
														
						LJ .		- ' r *						
	027 | 0954		CvtotechnotooM. Senior	1	04/01/07	$5,855	$3386							97,900	$45.40
			tHMOOm**	IMS	0W0M . IMO	MMM mmwwM ‘	, * -x m / '	i» '<			-		, -t						
														
									—					*
	027 I	8956	CytntechnotooM	i	04/01/07	$6314	$30.54						' *	$7,172	$41^2
			|MMMeHl««	- W» "	HUM		■ V ;								.r .
			SMUHIW	sun											
			Ch-Ct*	rn	WWW											
														
	027		8dantH,Cln LabJ’ar Dim	|	04/01/07	98,129	$48.72				-	t		a-		
			MMtwMI	*ue	«wiw' aaoa**t	' Imo	muta', BWMMWiKini -	n	■■											/’ *
														
														
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
<0 a>
	Unk Co*	71* Co*	71* Hmm		ZONE									
					Mtntmum		Zona 2		Zona 3		Zona 4		Maximum	
				UMU1V* Dato										
					0			HmhV		Mas*		mm*	MuiKflQ	Hotly
			□new	m ’	owwt											
8 A N F R A N C 1 s c 0	027 1 8888		CytotacftnotogW, Par Diem	D4AH/07	$8,910	$38.71								
			. tut)	lonijoa MMMMgM	*mo	iomm r»	nt cm4m	m	tMim											
														
														
														
	027 I 8202		Physidsn Assistant, Senior	04/01/07	$7,778	$44.70							$10,407	$6033
			SUOUMNM	t*M	MO1M MatMNp'	mm	'	#mm« 8NWWMM	m	nt M	nt											
														
														
														
	027	9203	Physician Asst	04/01W7	$7,070	$40.63							$9,S42	$6434
			MM4MtWrS*	MW	(Ml® MHMM01	MM	MKHA2 M	nt O4d	r*	nt											
														♦
														
														
	027	8204	Physician Asststent, Per DMm	| 04/01/07		$9,953	^S7M								
			nn IH >•{-« I II											
														■ ■
														
								i						
	028	0246	Pharmacist, Sr	04/01/07	$9326	$*.47							$10307	$82.11
	026	9247	Pharmacist, Staff II	04/01/07	$0,629	$66.34							$10,022	$5740
			SMHMMWil	MM	OM>Ut>? MMOSR/t	MOW	MOW MUMtMU	, nt	nt CM4M	»•	M											
														
														
					4									
	028	8248	^S- _ - -- . -■_a rn^.Jt 1	I MMnTUKMti «NBn 1	|	04/01/07	$9,433	$54-21							$8326	$66.47
			i i ■ • 1111 hl Uh					• 11 «						
														** -
														
														
HX Appendix A Year 1
Efl&CffW Aprtf f,2007
8 A N F R A N C 1 s c 0	Link Coda	THe Coda	Ude Name	Data	ZONE									
					Minimum		Zone 2		Zone 3		Zone 4		Maximum	
														
													MCHtMv	
	nm		Pharmactat. Per Diem	04/01/07	$11^94	$66.53						.		
			SNW<&Wlfc«	MMJC7 BMMMlftrM	flMoV	! NVM'Mtad :	n», OnOe	’ iii* '	m					•., 'f				‘i-		
						i-r-t 7 „						s ■	' t		
								,7	1						*	1•
														■■/
	029	8285	Counaeior, Genetic ill	04/01/07	$5,812	^2J5							$7,586	$43.60
	020	9287	Ccuneeior, Genetic N	04/01/07	$5,345	$30.72		S; , f		'i .	'*■			$7,226	taw
	020	9288	Couneekx, Genetic I	04/01/07	$4,858	$27.92		,■7 AJ* b					$6,569	kfr.75
	029	9313	Social Worker, Clinical ill	04/01/07	$5,128	$29.47				* n ’>		’if d .7	$7,872	$45.24
			HMMSwifee L ' • B . V- 7. - n»	, r'\ m S Y	L < . J, Ta ‘	7 tia ■ ; .7 ■ -t - n»7	-7 unC>t * ’■	-	• '«» r Ottwr ’			i-V -		1 j<		V*4 '**		k 4- .		£ "J
								1 ’ j ”L ,			.. _			
								P - ■’						•	u.	<
						■ r		> 1'		’’t				j/;
	029	9314	Social Worker, Clinical II	04/01/07	$4,766	$27.39							$7,329	$42.12
			HI Ml 3 a a a | ii a 3 -1 V			•i		1		r*? *	J		-		3.-1 -<*
						”, 'V ‘				y		4... ‘		11	J
								s ' I				^r"rF.J		X ..1,
								*		' (K				
	029	9315	Soctai Worker, Clinical, I	04/01/07	$4,519	$25.97		-1 >					$5,422	
	029	9316	Soda! Worker H, Clinical P D	04/01107	$6,588	$37.88				-J' >		'i r ,		X.-*f
			MCMiMnine , ’c	71;™ ’y " « X - 7'	M i- WHxeftMttM	:	’ ,, j,'T m	— mi						1						
								t						
									:				' s				•t ►
	loncts "'7.z i'wssw’-					~~--7		s'* _	'		•A U		T'‘™ ”		‘J ~
			Sadat Work Aeaocteto '	1 MtH/07		$3,858	$21.01		»***		f ‘r		17	$4^53	$25^12
			»<H»ewr*n'?7~7	“Timm cAohmo*	. eu» r Mow MUMWaataod - * ’	m «	m * OftCM-' /	-I,,'	-..	«* ‘			' ■								
								* !		e		-* sr		
						X.				£ ■		V	1		-
								J ''		7*				> , A'
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007

CO
	Link Coda	Title Coda	TMaNama				ZONE									
							Minimum		Zone 2		Zone 3		Zone 4		Maximum	
						ENDOW Date										
							I Wit*		■rtMy	■romi].	•tertNy	'WW		feoai^f	iMN^	
s A N F R A N C I s c 0	029	9342	Soda) Work Aaaodate, Aart			04/01/07	$3,356	*19.29				y		£ , '<>	$3,972	void
			iK"':		; o*wh ! ^iw» ' ;*;<>««►» .	< at: c									4.		
										>■7						f *•	-J?
								>		Il „				1 ' ? ,		
			O*C«f kfe ;i	‘ * i	‘ <■							fl ' **■ t		rf' 'fV.		f ' '■		_ -
	029	9345	ChBd Development Aaaoc			04/01/07	*4,253	*2444				1 . 5-		,1 ' '	$5,744	$33.01
	029	9351	Child Life SpedaBet III			04/01/07	$4,983	$28.64				•i		' 41	$6,730	saesa
	029	9352	Child Life Spedafet II			04/01/07	$4,529	*26.03				/■ft			$6,116	£35.15
	029	9353	Child Life Specialist 1			04/01/07	*4,115	*2395						’ _t r	$5,563	$31.97
	029	9392	Peychomatrist, Sr			04/01/07	*3,776	i21.7b				'I -		&	$5,100	$29.31
	029	9393	Psychometrtst			04/01/07	*3,047	*1791				v^s' 'JrfS		? 1 j *?	$3,630	£2096
			amcaemfee	, <r.	"lasw' mew Wit	; sua	oworw . ■nmwvmmm	/	t d eMm	■ <-i.	■*- s ' ■	...					*		, i		’k :S4				s4." t
																I” . >
								* J? t '				's		A *•)£ -		J < & f '
								/		. i 3		' ‘ *		r		
	030	9383	Psychologist II			04/01/07	*5,733	$3296							$7,738	$4447
	030	9384	Psychologist I			04/01/07	”fe>10	$29.94		V.		r		' t ’ *■	$7,033	$4042
	031	9451	Therapist, Music			04/01/07	*4,115	$2396						d	f*.' -	$5,563	$3197
			»wn>«Ewr*«\	’	j	ton eecewit *• 1 •, tu?	owtm , DMOrWuM ::	-.1*.	’ne; QnCfli -	* in^	m											St .s' -		
										* ’		; 4^ H				5 _ Jv
										■ *		,fc •.		*		
								7- *		<				r 4		■r	S‘
	031	9465 Therapist Recreation II				34431/07	7*4,529	tetri							$6,116	idsJs1
	031	9466 [Tbereptat Recreation I				04/01/07	$4,115	$23.®		»					$5,563	$31.97
				pM, Recreation, Pd		04/01/07	*5,133	$29.50				'i t.				
	031	9471	Speech, Pathologist Per Diem			04/01/07	$8,157	$46.88						-		
	031	9472	Pathologist, Speech, Sr			04/01/07	$6962	fc4.38		7		-		' ' i ' -	$8977	4^4^
	031	9473	Pathologist Speech			04/01/07	*5,538	$31.83				'		<	$7377	$42.97
	031	9474	AudoiogistSr			04/01/07	fe.483	»191		r<					$7,402	£4294
	031	9475	Audtoto^vt <			04/01/07	*4983	$2064				>			$6,732	$38.69
	031	9470	Auddodst Per Diem			04/01/07	*8,700	$60.00				4 '■				$090
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Link Code	nue Coda	IN* Name		ZONE									
					MMmttn		Zone 2		Zone3		Zone*		Maxtmum	
				UMUIIW Date										
					IM*	£j*Sdil		j—Ui			MnO* | > Heo*		IM* l-ltMtli	
	I	lid LLuLl- • ■ *■ :"l—i			04A1A7	84,799			c		;;				
s A N F R A N C 1 8 C 0	031	0*91	Therapist, Oocupe, Par damI	04A1A7	$8,157	46.88				<■' ;<t		' * J* ■		£»\ J
	031	9498	Therapist, Occupational II	04/01/07	$5^81	3035				/T * S :■»		'•>' 'Fsr»	$8,077	
						s- $- '•s4		:. sr	J						u.
				WftUjS -■		’■ 7 :i		; ■“j	z				k T.		
			mwswm.'«a $ •Jm’ *‘rt '	*-'£>' X r * “ir	" ✓ 'x.x \ * ’ <»«-*	'-«• •’			- J		■nrv.				j		
						.■><», /		V	•'* 1		:^/a.		& 4^-f		
	031	9499	Therapist, Occupational 1	04/01 AT	$5,281	iaios		W’r;i					$7,477	1*297
	032	9003	TedindogM, Nudear Med, Sr	04A1AT	$6,805			“*•'>				“T^-h	$8,589	443*
			MK»M>| -<7 :f L .'-'taxa; **»*?* aewewMt'	r* ' 7. *. ■	5. ■»» ■							-..71 ■K'				yrp”:;-
														
						4		'v				y		
								J -		Vi? p				;>T,„£X.
	032	9004	Technologist, Nudear Meddne	04/OlAT	$8,187	JSB^B				^r-		.,.*■>	$7807	
			,	3,	3”r<*BtS0-V sMewuu’1? /VSama	sews*^ SMMM-W .fjjt£> ax-	; osfta^?1, ■$-" .'wwi, <7. - !k ? awi^. e-1 wimt S							tK> -	. 'j,				,«r£
										.:«? Wi'k'J.		1 <rp.s		
						of f “		-ix		iT Ji '	1		7& irS		^V'i1
						'•' '		<<						. ■ft ‘f7 <■
	032 | 9005		TechnoioflisLNbd Med, Trainee	04A1/07	$5,918	$34,01				' 'V.				
			■HWKMiie^v-.	■*:»»/ .r^emep •’■ - '" > s * ■ • >' xj fe* . J	~3 v <?**<" -X naBe:* ,x..,l	,? .'■■■*= <f.„?sMwsi r			tn'- ?r'		.j		•S		j. 2 s.;		
						7						r		'rj»''-.
						5* 5								
						* ** •				l-f		i; <r		
	032	9006	TechnoiOflist.NucMed.Sr/’erDi ] 04/01/07		$8,887			-Z»		,J7^"Z, ’T		ir	•»•		■ >r >:•»• ‘ .1,
			MHxseMie					*^V				_- --A		
			aSewer;^ "-j -‘.	; MWmm * 'f 7 ^>- J sf vfW > «* ; ? <- ,--,n •««*" ■ ’.- »M»»4 t,			■;? ••- ”1				. -■* "		5^- ' s		
						!!. U x-<. -J				X,		**,/$« ,4		
								44/^ J 4 j		■ ’■'.$		’V* l- - =		Juy S
	108	9240	Phyeldst, HospM RadWion	04A1A7	$6,170	235JW		p”!,			,	mfflBEE£3O£3		
	106	9241	Phyddst, Hospital Rad, Asst	04A1AT	$5,384			->	Si		<4^				
HX Appendix A Year 1
ElfeCttv* AprtM, 20OT
	Link Coda	THa Coda	TWeNanw	Htoedea Data	ZONE									
					MHnaim		Zone 2		Zona3		Zone 4		Maidmum	
														
					a*W	1 'NMrtM	MatfW		Borne !’**»'		■m* I’wnf			*-*
D A V I 8	DAVtt													
	028	5428	Diettian 1	04/01/07	$4/437	$25.60	$4,860	$26.78	$4,881	$28.05	$5,103	$2838	$5324	
	027	8938	Scientist Spec, G8n Lab.Sr	04/01/07	18,227	$3579	$6,772	^2	$7,315		$7,880		$8,402	
			a^tMEwtfv	: mni/ir '? •**«» MMMWMaM.	; tUB '<?. ’ JlWKiSr . v’ll'	7. J ** “v -	- W >	> f ,7* ■ /*-	£< OfrCW ■■■&■ -- .	P*> 'J? *»*»					■						•«. . 4.
								. >		y n‘. .,				
								- «=		P				, -*s
						- X^» ’		s C- ? •		C ”/				
	027 |	8939	Scientist Spedafct. a Lab	| 04701/07		$5,865	|3Si.5B	$6,161	$35.41	$6,657	$3076	$7,153	’$41.11	$7,649	$43J»
			MMMFftMt* . r ;	’ V ■ «« IJ. •WB ■ , ttM;> • MfflJW * WOIWehrtAJ	->.««Wr >„ 'US’-					11 '	*		p i'C		Jfc*. **’.		
						‘ M				<r		i.'		7,^	*
						.*■>.!		T*				,,f'i its ¥-*	>		
								,fla		.1		i Z		V’.^ ’
	027	8840	Scientist, C*n/ca/Lab	| O4XHM7		$5,138	#9^3	$5,587	$^n;	$6,036	$34^	$6,487	±37.28	$6,938	'Mae
			»&&&/&*■?.	&«	■•	'mbww>- iwmw*B» £**	.	'uii	<tmtr / M	’(itii	?	loww' k'!- .' ?	. MMM					V*.' ?j		' /f"				.1
														'«?Vwr
						i.f		A*-> V				/ ,s ’* /.		?J V /' '
						> *' \ }		. 1	*j.		£s=r	*	»> ’		k'1		V , - •
	027 | 8954		CytotechnoiogisL Senior	1	04/01/07	$5,469		$5,947	$34.18	$6,426	$8099	$6,904	$30.68	$7,383	$42.43
			Mort*** -	,-i .	Meter ■ •*orw»	' ‘ *M?f. <’ <*«** aMOW~Wi*ii>ii	,	-tiwa " t ’bww onca '-j/r	na ’ nmra.							’J	>		?l 1 *		J/.J
						* ,2		l\. s.	;		i A	f		7		•• \ .'J
														
						'	^4-4-V		v'						>■£
	027 I 8955		CvtotactaotooM	1 04/01/07		$4,973	|28.58	$5,408	$31.08	$5,843		$6,278	|36.08	$6,713	"±3b*±6'
			MMMrewM* i-	Mwcr ,/, '.	* »UM.	C4W>; BMiwwieiiii ^,L - »w y^eeww- Oo«». /,	..' „r ' -‘. tut '	mews’-					? f -T				' p ■_£"■'		X <?.•
										* . .				? • L
												pi* <		." I1/”-
										*		s!'		
	027 I 8956		SdentfstCOn Lab,Per Diem	I 04/01/07		$7,583	$43.58								R 0 & ’ :
			m®. at«Maer*a^M * f ’ ^-FT"-	5,) ^eeMprv bmomm;- *. Mt f_7 . . ■ , •...: ^ ’-. SMS	fflMW.			r „.A		- o? t		* * '-		!. L* ,		K	s.^
								• V^'						
						’’ .^'Si		- u		5	'				,J^Sa ’ *
						’* Vv»> *		X ' *				-		
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Link Cod*	■no* Coda	TMsNama	Eftacttva Data	ZONE									
					Mhitmum		Zona 2		Zone3		ZM»4		MaKtmum	
														
					wxwy		iiLiiiao		MMNtf				VMM*	HM) 4
D A V 1 S	027	8997	CytotochnotooJU, 8r, ParDtem	04/D1/07	$7,680	$44,14		ri ”		T ffT' 1				1 ■
			i«t»ew<no "'J	MMer . BMMtttf	■' '4' WJ' •	0«H®7 '			= l-_ Ail .								V*
								' s.				f's’V''		■"r <•••%«•«•
			ttMgwiatai*;' J • -j	’ ■	j aww/*										
			vo# •			*«<		->. *		V,1 r		■ -.A		*v «f-' ’
	027	8998	Cytotachnotoght, Per Otem	04»1<D7	$6,981	$4&l!z		M--'1 r'		I' a* . 'f				"l'j* I
			mOTBwMt	‘ ■>	S240	MOW , aw»wa.»oon» yaWeiiiiiiw *'	«'*■*,„ mow."-- CreCtf f ■}	- '	VDO<rMMM ‘			/		-Ai		* ? *		r 4 „ H		•tk’u
						5s-				■		‘	-4f		r
						* 3‘ / 1		.„■■■		'+				“nJ
										* .-4&. *-				:ax?-s
	027 | 0202		Physician Aasistant, Sankx	04/01/07	$8,281	$47.58	$9,006	$51.78	$9,732	i6543	$10X57	$60.10	$11,181	$84.26
			MXttwt# ,.	, . •’»Ma ■>	MOW MSWMtM , ‘ -f	»* 1 < '■ ^0W«ff : A imj'jk; ~ mbwt . CMJS-A. ' A> "SA ^ VjOO ;.;-awov			L				%■- -4 ' .		► ,4 ’		Kt
						> 4T4				^,4 i				ATA *■
								■s'ilA ■		'?■ 'T Va*				, *r** ?■?
						’ > ’-.-A		a> * '*				“i; k 7		.- -T’ S
	027 | 0203		Physician Asst	|	04/01/07	$7,531	il&28	$8,190	$4747	$8,848	$50.85	$9,507	<54.64	$10,185	
			katw***»’	■" J ^*Ms.’V'r' ^s**®* “ ®a«W*x	; -5 ■MVMwl 4 V -	AjA. -mv. 1 ■* IP f "* ■ ■"' y rJff Ft-*'* A * w	« # • - «^4 QMM • .-	■-	VK	MOWM i			'	’ ri		r.fe’. <■■■		Jf ■ ►				
						'*<4$» .'*•		T		Jv J*		xJm# ,<*• 1		
										! * ;■*				Z'U?
								•a	’	.		'? w				+
	027	0204	Phyddsn Aadstant, Per Diem	|	04/01/07	$9,029	$8149				‘r	$		‘k'.'r ''.		A-!T
			SHsatoitea>J	tua \ -■■■-'<»«■			■Sy .				**				
								-				1		J -' 15
			54^™™'"**^'“'"^ V4O r=r~"7 Mflunr *g oici»5*x . - *r ., -.7 vw	watun			- , -		— ~~		-	>M-	VS		. ■< 4 _'	- *•		vX r-
										-5				
	028	9248	Pharmacist, Sr	04/01/07	<10,017	w			$10,539			ftr *■	$11,069	<8SA8
	028	9247	PtwmacM Staff U	04/01/07	$9,440	454,25		► -	$8,937	^7.11			$10X33	$ko6
			r ' >''■. ’■'• ■->'" 'IMS	MOVBF ■o«w ':				1	. V						<
			imwK, AA f	i					L				•i"0A'		
			MKWMri ,r\ _AA,	0W1B7 0*00- •-	■ ,A	/ KM '	<U«W-			•	4 £ _		p .-i/t'1*		^1*				
						1 "J		, Jilt ■ -r		‘4		-‘■tee 1'	' J 1	
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
M
	Link Coda	Title Goda	Title Nam		ZONE									
					***- *	 ■innimni		Zone 2		Zone3		Zone 4		Maximum	
				Dato										
					■mo*	, llirty	Moeo*	tk»S	Ml			1 tMvrijF	MnmMjj	n»n ’
D A V J S			I Pharmacist. Staff I	04/01/07	$8,658	$5051		. * 7. *1	$9,323			.	$9,788	$58.25
								J		4 r	s		X	'		«T - - *
			MWIMM 1 .J' .	HJO	»M»*W oMd' \	\	IMO K OWUM ■			,e		s		<* iT		v JWkJt		
								>> h		<< 77		** '•c		* \ 4)
						. '		T."		* > ■*		' -4		
	028 I 8250		Pharmacist II, Par Diem	04/01/07	$10,996	$83.19		- > J *0		. V J *£		.. ?		
			S : i 1 % r 7'*®^.	' *	UI#	M6W7 orAp:* r.’	L. • . *? tm*’’ "> tome#			•V *»		r,:, '<£		T. n:		" >7 ‘		
										*-,	'*1				
						* M * 1	r		■"’ J				t		r	‘**’1
						£ „ I .				* v .		' -«-AT		>. *f 7 . ■*
	029	9286	Comaelor, Genetic III	04/01/07	$4,651	$46.73	$5,058	&9JI7.	$5365	$31.41	$5,873	$33.75	$6,278	i«4M
	029	9287	Counselor, Genetic II	04/01/07	$4,226		$4,597	J?4?	$4,966	<2&h	$5,338	&J.B8	$5,707	
	029	9806	Social, Worker, CUn, Licensed	04/01/07	$5,895	$82.73	$6,194		$6,692	ssOT	$7,191	f4l38	$7,689	pts
			MMMtMat?	. IMO /,	0W1C? muwmk* ; ■.	me _ gainer MHMVMtanr < 't	’ imo - ' omm. < '•**</ rlT . -v **■	-ko«wt			1'/ '				'i*	<>				
								* * • f		.- .4. H. j		■' >		-1 •■. 1-
								■ 4 i				£ ,3^.		. 7 <
						s>		’ .12.4. ►				v- v.		
	029	9307	Social Worker II	| 04/01/07		$5,190	$29.83	$5,645	$32.44	$5,099	$35.®	$8,553		$7,007	
			MMekMi*0<	„t.	IMS MfeMW* .'	'<< /MM aiearwMwr1 jt*#-,-	*•», IM**.'	'■	A	’pm - new '					*?		,.'. ,iA;'		7	\		
						> J' s		4" ,	‘		1				SS 7
						i? *rw ■		■J-- *				x *		
														-» si 4^:
	029 ]	9308	Social Worker I	I	04/01/07	$4,265	i?4.51	$4,639		$5,013	<2M1	$5,385	$30.95	$5,758	
			MewewMa^ '	. p* ‘ o*mari **C*M«M'	2/	'***'. ‘	'WMT~ ommswmm	T	...Pff ■/$’ OMto ■	/:?	'Vw» r	flwwi*									rU;.?*’		,SK' c
						■ -. -I				- > k		* . f >.		
								> E7		■ .5 V				
								. ■<						
	029 [ 9309		Soda! Worker, Per Diem, II	1 04/01/07		$6,725	$3^S6		* • M		7	,				- -
			■ -ewwwv. Cto-C* _	\ \ , < j '*	, t7J» ,	' IWffl			'r .		7r V11 z		■$		"Tr j r'		Vl
						■Wrt? iy,						s-Sr*^		
						tf'Ae.L				«»		l*.		
										;				-
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Unk Cota	TBte Cotte	TKteName		ZONE									
					■UnMiHim		Zone 2		ZoooS		Zone 4		Mttdfnum	
				UMLUw Dita										
					M*		BiiiO^	. *wt.		1 MM*	MM*	■■ m	MM*	»MM* '
D A V 1 8	029	9310	Soeta Wwkor. anJVXJcmod	04/01*7	37,447	$42.60		■ c-		r				
			IMO 3	M>W MCONgM,\ ' ~ ‘h	M -	M*W ' BMMMWMM	WWW OM*"-.	~	. w«w							t				\ j-
						t-r-~		- =				*■		
										.■*				z-
						-	.	6		N't		. * 4-		' * t*		
	029	9330	Cnee Manager, Comm Sen4ces	04/01/07	$3249	liAI?	$3,534	$2031	$6,568	fel^4	$4,103	123&	$4387	$1521
	029	9331	Cm Manager, Comm Sow, Aeet	04*1*7	fe39i	$17.19	$3,254	UM	$3315	$2020	$3,778	$21.70	$4,037	fesiA
	029	9345	ChM Development Amoc	04*1*7	94,113	felA4	$4,474		$4334		$5,194	$2936	$5362	
	029	9392	Paychometnet, Sr	04*1*7	$3,139	*1^64	$3/414	$19.82	$3369	$3120	$3,964	922.16	$4237	feiuS1
			BMf Mtae .	' tt« 1 >. MOW \ *Mim	tern ■ . mow . ,MBW OMM .	m^'											-»» »
								i.				< 'f M		
						* /		s’ I		V '				
												. •*		7
	029 | 9393		PsychornoCtat	04/01/07	$2352	$1t»	$3,102	$1733	&361	$1926	$3,600	$2039		$22.12
			HHatwM	-	M' ~ MOW , tew *; .MOW HMMim'	' f ru 5’"', mow/ DfrCM'	m ' Hz ’!• '			c								>•
								< ,-K				. 'I ’		ft.’.
						K				• »		’ 1		, u ■
										L'				t k	i
	030	9383	PeychoktaatU	04*1/07	$6323		16376	&32	$7430	$42.70	$7383		*8338	$4938
	030	9384	Paychotogtat 1	04*1/07	$6,739	$32.96	$6,241	$3837	$8,744	feS	$7245	$7iit	$7,746	
	031	9486	Therapta, Recmetion 1	04*1*7	$3,946	S4®	$4,293		fe«39	fei&	$4383	$2834	*,328	
	031	9460	Speech Pethotogtet, Sr, PA.	04*1*7	$8,797	$80M								
			w»mitta».	taw - mow			r *		i ‘ '				t; ■ ’		
			- ' - ***‘ ;	-•tew-				^±1 'CV		Sir		-1		
				, M		......								
	031 |04M		Speech, PettatocM. Par Dtem	O4A1/O7	$7398	84424								♦
			■Sv r ' ■ III-• 8 8 t BBS" - 2 s f r " * „ \ , hi» im					-						
						t.- ■■ ‘		to 7		*r	<	I	■ se		
						f' 1AB						■ ’ ‘'7		
														: -
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
104
	Unk Coda	TBto Coda	TWaMana	EDSCDVB Date	ZONE									
					Mtnbnum		Zona 2		Zona 3		Zona*		Maximum	
														
						uiHo^r-	IMW				MfrtNr	inaaa	MMtMy	*-*
	031	0472	PsthotooM' SpMchf Sr	04/01/07	35,773	•3118	•1280	•30.09	•6,784	±36.09	•7^89	±4140	•7,793	•44.79
D A V I 8	031	0*73	PtfhQtotftti SjpMCil	0410107	•6.217	(29.96	•5,672	•3200	•8.128	•3622	•6486	•3743	•7,042	•40.47
			- **'*'■. ®; 'n'«	omw CWM ,f 5 J. : ¥ f. 5	.	MW			: .B*								
						., srr's		1						1 -J. •
														; * *
						“• ‘v				•»		r		4	'	5
	031	047*	Audtotogtst, Sr	04/01/07	•6,456	$31.36	•5.933	•34.10	•6,410	•3644	•8487	•3948	$7,364	•42.32
	031	9*76	AudtaiogM	04/01/07	$4,434	&&4&	•4,822	izHi	•5.210	•29.94	•5496	•32.17	•5,986	ts*^>
	031	9498	Therapict, Oocupationd II	04/01/07	•5,735	•32k	•6,238	•3806	•6,741	±38.74	•7444	±4-i43	•7,745	•4441
			aMactwaa	two	om» < wwiMjt	■ aa*	mouct-'j							J ■				
								. _ J/'						
			MUMWlM	’ »1£0 <_	(MOW h;		< , 'fl				r.		< * *		
			oca	ouowe1'											
	031	9499	TbarapJC Occupational 1	1 04/01/07		$5,223	•30.02	•5.683	•3286	•6,140	±3129	$6496	isTSU	V,056	±4046
			aMMtMiMi	. .ewe^	Mmcr , WMPMft	tut ' omm , aa-atMwun*	tt«? twwJ tMa	■ grm '	moom ;					<'V						
														
												r ' 4 -		
														
	031 |	9500	TbarapM, Occupa, Per Dtem	1 04/01/07		$7,696	•4424		I ■						
			MHMWne, '	U«	tMvn ‘ M4W1I01 -	tui<; r	OtfW iea naeae in	nee -	eeow C»C*I	m	na					t «■						
								•*” ■■ r						
														
														
	032	9003	Tedwtdootat, Nudaar Med. Sr	1	04/01/07	•0,488	±37.29	•7.067	•4046	P.626	•4343	•8.196	±47.10	•8.763	•6036
			HI! s«.a£a o im											
								f				> ,Y'		
						■ r		r						
														*
	032 | BOO*		TactmdtxM. Nudaar Maddna	1	04/01/07	kew	•32.70	•8.187	•3156	•6486	•38,42	•7.183	•4148	•7480	•44.14
			a»oreHiitag	m	ewtiw ' nacaaue '	-■	' Mt	eteilw					“■ 7 r						
														? -■
														
HX App*ntftx A Ywr 1 Effective ApriH, 2007
	UMt Cod*	TH* Cod*	IM* Hmm		ZONE									
					ICnMHsn		Zorn 2		Zon«3		Zoo* 4		Maximum	
				CIMMIW Mb										
					BMW	:<*»**.				.Hid* •	Mwttr	HM*.	Months	2h»h* >
						, f* * w		,3?.	*		s/ -	?.•-		V- 1	•*• -		. ‘a‘ *L"’
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Link	TWs Cote	TMaNwrw	Hh4iite	ZONE									
					Minimum		Zone 2		Zono3		Zoos 4		Maximum	
				Cte										
					***		Moett#		IfeiidMj	.‘HMMr:/		> ttaofto'?	HoMNy	•'Nm>s>
D A V 1 8	032	9008	TechnokxteLNuc Med^rJ3* Di	MQW7	$7,473	$42.56				&		' *		r > V . X
			CUM . ''; f'i , '■’	-- IMO .? MW. '							"“.a		J&J''		
						' v X" *		.1 * T		♦				r;
						i T *		.3	*;»				*^*•7 •?*		
								.'i	C				■ * 'v		S	J
	106	9240	Phyoidst, Hospital Radiation	04/01/07	$5298	$30.45	$5,763	$33.44	$6,227	$35.75	$6,690	$3846	$7,153	$41.11
	106	9241	Physicist, Hospital Rad, Asst	04/01/07	$4,373	tJs.13	$4,755	$27.33	$5,138	$2953	$5,521	$Al.73	$5,902	$33.92
o o
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
107
	Link Cod*	IMte Code	TMbNmw	Effitdivi (Mi	ZONE									
					MMmum		Zone 2		Zone3		Zone 4		Maximum	
														
					mw Ifebiwtr			P'wwe"	«ta*y		MW	' IMIF	wwew	flniurtrr
0 8 A N 0 E L E 8	LO8 ANGELES													
	026 15421 IDtetttan.Pd			0MI1/07	45,220	«KLQQ						jL&k?		
			DWHant	04/01/07	$3,959	^2.76	$4,300	$24.71	$4,641	#.67	$4,983	$28.64	$5,324	
	027	8038	SdanM Spec,Ctn Lab,Sr	04/01/07	$5,672	40							$7,962	40
	027	8838	SdantMSpaciaM.CI Lab	04/01/07	$6,157	'^44		-?: ^4		3'.V«£		> xJ.	$7,238	
			mhmw/«;„ L/4.’’ ■' ?■" J** teW :	■.	MNr:?>«MV.'					■•’ Jr						
												i-. fete.'		
								j ’ r’Jf.						
										^4^				
	027 | 8940		SdentM, CRnical lab	|	04/01/07	$5,157	&?4		^-:r-		L*i			$7,238	ineo
			’j’TS.WI.' 'VlWBW/ MOW * 07 > ‘	•<«	Miwr.. >7 4 W.\ .**5 „ L 1	' > <T-J,	’P \jt	-v'iHS; -.i- teW*^r-S.?.?^«s-. -	:■							.J '£ 1 S		i; w-		
						t-		J4i>				■<r w.		
												1		
						'f		£' « •		V,"		- t *,^,>1		S?
	027 |	8964	CytotachnoioBtt, Senior	|	04/01/07	$5,685	$32,67	$6,139	S&26	$6,591	^37.86	$7,045	IM	$7,496	
			;bwuw; „r4>m	if' f *	■ * , /? .	--a. - >.	4~- r * * a*o*WM^<	Mk'swv teatWte^f Ja"7A.* J >■ hs"»-V											* 4 J
						■ ?;•& *				S.- ’ "»5.		Kw ■•’		7
						>4.m4i»V1 '<4		^£3?-5		J				4&fet^
						E? ^1^:						.		;-W. 7
	027 | 8965		Cytotechnoioobt	|	04/01/07	$5,183		$6A75	#44	$6,987	&Ui	$8,396	$36.77	$MW	
			Sh#« &*siS8	W5 i.its ja<#W1 teiwwwr/■"** -*:r owm-							f		?		f-g „
						" * • _								.*.•?■. J-S
			MRRim’i': vr - ■;. ~ j	^'7 w.t. o»w.'.	s? * ■.-'Kwiai ^euwn,'			ViT'	*—	£,‘“J',.I"J.'IL	—• - -	'tr'±J	“»• ’ --	,'^^T4?'xn	- - - —	s.n^zrar,?^
						•’ 4* t *				. ■*“ ” "A		A;*		
	027 ] 8956		SdanSrtXOn lab,Rar Diem	|	04/01/07	$6,980	$40.00						i,.	$7,830	pw
			-? $?»< . ‘ ..	' - ' MM kr i ■*■ W». *< ^7 *' c' * •*'■*, - ’	’ r, p^f.-re—	■"f* * -rt iQ	-	<?' * * >a CW Wl«t»d ft! ^/T—’"J ’'•^•’T'h	,	-’**4' * ’ *'*!» •***■' .f&f. -4A4<h. -- - teoa^ra-	^s*nr					*?'” >				’		
						j* \ Ji		n... i,				-		
												-3'g r		
									1 / '.	KfiSH!		-I '"'■&.		
	027 ] 8857		SdentaLCfri LabApprantice	|	04/01/07	$3,619			■aaiKE&atsKi					<4^4	
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
108
	Link Cods	TMe Code	TlthNsnt		ZONE									
					Minimum		Zone 2		Zones		Zone4		Maximum	
				Date										
							■fanUdji	< Nr^ '	IfcadNy				tfciUttj	1 Ho«V<
L 0 S A N G E L E 8	027	8997	Cytotochnoiogfct 3r, Par Diem	04/01/07	$8,178	$47.00		- ' Y.						■r ’4;i
			SNMtnhMkii	sue '	unw ••arie*	*■ Mctw MHWWmIcw* "	m '	■ /» toCMI '	»1(M» . ■	. MM0T			7- 0 » -		t- - .		* ’		a;		■'	I
						-		S 4.i .		J-		A? ‘ J' *		
						* «				' ,		J *■# c		■ J *
								U Sr. ?		11		i.r” u6 *■		m '.'k'
	BB7l 8998		Cytotectmotoflfst, Per Diem	] 04/01/07		$7,439	$fe.75								tr xr ‘j*
			*MniM*'r ■ s / " ' . SUi * ■ 'MOW! «*WW1	Htg	' 0«W UM*!..’	.tiwtJW.			* .x'		■rt-J *.? */		.1		, »■..*		<■< r' •«
						- ’>#!' -		■;"/		t'. J		' V ** '		
						"'A Mt				;	-f. >		H ~		< ;*4
						-a		■J	»		L				?■	I
	027	9202	Physician Assistant, Senior	04/01/07	$7,452	$42.83	$8,048	$46.25	$8,641	$4066	$9^36	$53.06	$9,829	$58.49
			MarbMne	”,‘ - * *MS - i. ■ wow swotnsn,' :	•' mj» ’ ■*; 'omoe*^ MHMMWbhH 1	MM V, OWM"' IM*/- '?H A	*YCKKI -.*■• WW S					:	•*,/ f				’ a'		
								’ • ?		•" >		* L	’	'		r- */*i
														■’■.s ,1
						', 4				*		-		H-'-A-a-
	027	9203	Physician Asst	04/01/07	$6,776	$38.94	$7,317	$42.05	$7,856	feta	$8,397	$48.26	$8,937	fe 1.38
			H ■hi hii iim 1. # -if.			' r						=\-^ J		14 L r/
						m’ •		- r*-' < ■				X 4 •)		* 7 ip
						-		, \ *		L		h' ►, > <		
						. JI'?'								; ? r ? 3
	028	9246	Pharmacist, Sr	04/01/07	$9,744	$86.00	$10,564	ioo.aT	$11,425	$65.68	$12,266	feo.49	$13,106	feta1
	028	9247	Pharmacist, Staff 11	04/01/07	$9,744	$68.00		■ *		fefi.68			$13,106	$76.32
			MMtfAvMv J.	v teJS	fQMMA7 MMBJrgn	,	■ *’■ moo * /lieiWj1 ■	MM ,' 0«WW? DMM K .	, ,M0M	0W1M7			l»A _		r 4 "						■ #
								■						- s	7 V"
										*■ ’i ‘ -		’W -		
												jT x. , K		1 „ *
	028	9248	Phamtactat, Staff 1	]	04/01/07	$0,135	$62.50			$10,591	$60.87			$12,060	$89.25
			\ j? £/: *itea	' M30M r. MMSMgnt -	.■- ■	.-MflO ■ ' ’ MOMt WMirwMMM ti,?'	-'iia'	omx XM,. ”	Itooo; . 'i- -<MW			V .. .						■ ;		' *?-■
												r*	-		1^4 7-
						Tr-.-^v ,		'V		.5 .		* ■ f •■-3 4^		
								.	■	' l4				’		f
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
109
L O 8
A N G
E L E
8
ZONE
Effccthe Data	MMiwm	Zane 2	Zona 3	Zone 4	Maximum
					
Title Name
						MMW	MMly	Mimtit	ES5SI
028	0249	PharmacM, Per Dtem	04/01/07	$12,100	$70.00		"» ‘A ’		aw
		■iwaeSHw	ww» > »ias»V*’-1+- •" '" t»M ■-'■ .■ owra" LA a>z, -	. -	-*•$,, is ,--v^	k	r	Si* £ - «*ww-; oeap,....-	~	, ■>’rwe-'Neuner					•		we—1
					•s* J				
							*		Mi
					if 7		e < 1		BUSI
029	9285	Counselor, Genette III	04/01/07	$5,994	$3445	$6,473		$6,951	
029	9287	Counselor, Genetic II	04/01/07	$5,450	'$31.62	$5,885	W3S2	$6,320	LSEZ1I
029	9288	Counselor, Genetic 1	04/01/07	$4,856	$27.91	$5244	$36.14	$5,631	Ei3E3|
029	9289	Counselor, Genetics, Per Diem	04/01/07	$5,220	<3bxk>		f, - ■*		■MttSCn i
029	9313	Social Worker, Clinical III	04/01/07	$5,324			-4$ S	$6,174	isxai
029	9314	Social Worker, ClWcalll	04/01/07	$4396	tau		5 «?'*>•	$5,678	EsiOI
029	9316	Social Worker, Obiical, I	04/01/07	$3,915	$22.50		, i ►	$4,540	I3E1I
		1 »'B | '' 'A £ ’ .*> *»Ss	f •jrV’t I , r-~ Jv'-** ':;‘V .’?■ \x* fiJ; ill!					' t* V		* '*5
					•?		** 7		
									. >■*
					i’’		* r * *■ 4,’		
029	0316	Social Worker II, CMcal RD	04/01/07	$5,394	&4jdo		'5	-4- '"1 *		4 .<*- ■ *.
		aheasaeewi -g^''	”=> 7 ,«ja A, ,*, fr^siw#'	earnerA					. * f <•£ *.		
					J' / ,		.j n..		4-r. r M ‘
			— '<£ .i-iiwwt-				* '		', *■
		(Mu' ’”7^'J”? F , r StMO			- *'	A				/•'	1 I
029	9317	Child Devatopment Assoc. Sr.	04/01/07	$4,437	to			E3I3li3&ll	
		x	■ X X X	X	X	. - X	■	— x XX- X X*^»							
							■Titfc-‘ S'*		^■“4-
bawaremaaj^/'* ' [wnas tm» 2ZZ. ^11	' leACMWMtorM■%"	„ !'	■ n» ' ■> loMM ’	. . '	’. i re . '	- i» -					- ■’ }		■'■		
							-’■■■	X.		
					Vr ’ f		- $		4	S' A
									A'
029 1 9342 ISocM WmfcAaaocNte, Aest			04/01/07	$3,363	|19^3	$3>631	$20.87	$3409	$22.41
" ' '■	[mearnertajr	"“-oweer • I £*•«	s £	' '»	'*	' ■ iMHMlWt	|U2	5W0*.				” r :■					t '*ri3
					-riji. '		■■ ** -		
	MWHWWwlitMi.l. *	’.k..... ,a*^_				„ J 		£• "		/ t’’.
MMMy	x Hatty >	MoMHY	* Hatty s
	, ' *'		-?/ t'
			*>* - -J* -<Jt
	:		ul , i
	'■ f J .		
	' ps*		, •#■ Ik
$7,430		$7,907	t4#4
$6,755	I&82	$7,190	$4132
$6,019	$84^9	$8,407	&&
	p„‘. ; £	$8,090	$35.06
	sj. xi-’i* v;a	$7,023	Uo.&i
	. •/’	$6459	t^.12
	■\J ’ ,44	$5,164	^29.68
	? *		
	’f		,“,*■ zs>
			
	■j&r1 -		Ci 4
	^x.'	$6,960	liM'
			'’T
	'4 1		'•r-r
			f O
			-T- *
	‘. \ > -	$5,852	$33.63
-			pef^nr
	■g * r		T.zr'
	X		A_x/
	8.* J.		
			
$4,167		$4,437	-M
			\pi
			
			•-■tfi ’ \
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Link Cotte	•nti* Coda	TOaltama		ZONE									
					Minimum		Zona 2		Zona 3		Zona 4		Maximum	
				Ms										
					MmW	-35QL.			So®*		MoMW	!i»x0r;	itodty	
								* %		/f'v? ..		4 '*»'S 3A		
L O 8 A N G E L E 8	028	9348	ChM Owntopmant Assoc	040107	KE3		$4,355		$4,677	$2668	$4,999	$26.73	$5319	'USIii
	020	9352	ChM LK» SpoctaBrt II	040107	LLKiJj	$25.&	$4,790	$27.63	$5,146	fe-S	$5,496	$31.60	$5,852	-wiWiWr
	too	9383	ChBd Life Spactttftat I	040107		Mii	$4,355	WE1	$4,677	m	$4,999		$5,319	$3057
	020		Psychomatrist, Sr	040107	Ei&iA	SZ&EmI	$3,852		$4,136		$4,421	o	$4,705	Jzroi
	020	9303	Ptychomtertet	040107	E5E3I	$19.33	$3,031	$2067	$3,899	^.41	$4,167		$4,437	$25.50
			MWIW	‘ "./SMS' ?4>WW£'			-ri*, ‘		■’j-		3 K 7 *		;		
								j_Y **'		V		s, A		
										^■srS				*
						..				■7”-5c		-/.<n ,		
	030 | 9383		Psychologist II	040107	$8,534	$37.53'	$7,054	$<^54	$7,576	$4364	$8,096	'$48.63	$8,618	$49ja
			MMtWMnl -A	n»..'	1 h»" ib. .	#,.	-■*	'	,» V. •’s a.	pa*, ■ my»					*7"						
						!*	4 ?T		1		* , ‘				
						^5		fl ,*7		4 •**■'				**: i,'* . X
						*n , .		*• A '■’		$		.7 A T’>'		1 -4 ’
	030 |	9384	Psychologist 1	1	040107	$5,940	'£^14	$6,414		$6389		$7,382		$7,835	
			Imk^pMiv.' .*pirj, ;■ SMWtHp*' ’-'4., ■•	l-in'/-'.-t '«•; 1 -17, ttX~ * ;r v \ '. ' '	.VM *’ CJ»W;					k-hit ft rf ^4?						
								' Z ' M						
						5 ,%		-						
						\	? s		-						■•■*}
	030	9385	Psychologist. 1, Par Diem	1	040107	$5,220			79' - ■'				t *£	$6,090	$?«M>0
			, nr /fC/’ £ <•' if nwotsm: ' i\ ' **/« \fi-aiWMM' .£/	‘	’ ik o»cu. .	* va>	wrapt			? z				■**£ >■>*'’ T ■				
						' < -4				»• ’ .		5 1		/’r-.	,	■
								1y		A. 'J		,c '’•Jr- ■,.		
								’ U W’		4" -f 4 v-1		* *		
	030 [ 0386		W	»- -■	■—« Il 	- ,	1 rSycnOIDylVlt llt rw IMOl	1	040107	$5,742	$3W		jV • z. »=•		A- ' '			$7,308	w
			*T r.fi »> $ | «> 8 g ’ ( ■ ■.. ■; “4:,1 '<#' ,S*i it!? to			■ -TV				- Y » -				
						'4 '		&. *		f, '--sl-il		L' < *		
						*	1Q ■	1					*	t: »	s . . .	
						/‘■H&				" * _J~ s				
	031 19451		Thoraptt, Music	| 040107		$3,383	$19.33	$3,631	kioir	$3699	$22.41	$4,167		$4,437	$25^b
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effecttai 1,2007
	Link Grate	Tftto Code	TOlo Mm		ZONE										
					Minimum			Zone 2		Zones		Zone 4		Mextmum	
				Me											
					«-*	:			HM*'	iMW	MM*’'		M'"	M4	HMlfr.
L 0 a A H G E L E ft	031	0486	nwrapiiti Rrauflon II	0*0107	$8467	320.12			* i -»					$7,094	$40.77
	1		MMNtfi	' - . . j - Koo -. , o<w M4MWMM	’ IMO , . MMMr. o*oir\' . '	\			. . ,.4.			e '				11 r 6		
						J -x			•*’! * .T		ir >				■■* , ■* c
															_ JI	■"
						* r- •					• • ’		(l ■ 1/-		t
	031 I MSB		TMfflpitU R*C9M0on 1	0WIW7	$4,706	$2744		35,175	SHI	36,648		38.118	335.15	36488	^748
			I»®	' MOW? MMNHta '	:,,<r;fU0 - tWCMW ■MOWIMM \	,1 r»MWWl MG-’ ’*/ -	-7.	* m						7 7i				*	' -i?		
						>			’ ,k						' .1
											_s				
						ffi			*J "iS1 1						
	031	0400	Speech fMhotootet, Sr, PJ3.	04/01/07	36426	Sais							7',	38462	*4840
	031	M72	Pethotoptet, Speech, Sr	04/01/07	$5491	33443		38480	1^747	37,188		37.787	344.78	38487	34840
	ryiirr^i		Pethofoptt, Speech	04/01/07	$6,589	$32.12		36,147	J3&33	38,706	^141	37^66		37423	
	EZ3E33		Audtotootet, Sr	04/01/07	$6491	$34>	3	38,580	b74?	37,188		37,787	(34.7%	38487	34840
	031 I M75		Atxfioloatat	04/01/07	$5489	i&i		38,147	ii3'1'*3!	36,706	^44	37,265	M1.76	37423	34448
	031 | MOO		TherapM, Occupe.PerDletn, II	04/01/07	$7,830								< r '	38,700	isdco
			f * r « |\i III;								.r		T.,_		
															- *
													<* -*j.		'	J ,
						U« .'*					j- : *		--		
	031 1 9491		TherapM, Occupa, Per Dtem 1	1 04XJ1/07		*8(080	Hpo			CrT t				1 k * ?*	37430	
			a '	“■’'“'Z'nF< ■■iwii i i		'' , ——=J						: -•		’ -mt- -,r^		AH -■ ■		
															
			IW«nw«* * :	■ UM	, ftOMC- CfeQA -	r	i *-• *5. t —	- 0' '										■ ; -		
									■ "7"		’"■> d ■'t*		r »		.
	031 | 0488		TherapM, OccuMim II	I 04/01/07		$5,481	f3140				f8(4«2				37403	Fl?
	1,	'		■eiebMee; :	eue- «*w ■ewera-	f W» - n ’ r :	' ra . L[Jr .A. ^ «										_! ■ «		■.** 1
						+ < /			'-J A +		■ 4		t- »■		J'
						>'		,	1						t .	1	” X
									4 ' »**				^A'..		
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
112
	Link Co*	TOM Co*	TMaNama		ZONE									
					IMmon		Zona 2		Zona 3		Zona 4		ktaximon	
				EMi										
							IM*				IM		HdMt	Hcfeffe '
L 0 S A N G E L E 8	iesieei		iTheracM Occupation^ 1	0W1 Kft	85,046	$29.00			$8,006	^4,?2		. ’ i	$6,987	$4004
			i ; tea li’iOWMnW iTri-.- t	- f	•	-	’ '	' . - Ka; .. - tMtw j mcmwmm	ibm	Mowr - > ' ’ * - ■			, y , •								
								4		r ’				
						*								
								। r						
	032 I 9003		TechnotofiM Nucteor Modi Sr	OWMOT	$6,506	$3792			$7,651	$4307			$8,703	150.02
			MWMtw*	; U4>	WWW ee-otMW» -,	,	na>.	'cwic? mhwwmm	.W	:(«w 0MM	IKU» ,.	0400*1	.											
										, t it,				
												1 * ►		
														<
	032 |	0004	Tachnotoglat, Nuclear Madcfrw	04*01/07	$5,916	$34.00	$8,388	$36171	$6069	^9l42			$7,804	$4435
			MatMi	*u*	' , oww MMWi	;	M0W7- tMHMMWM	IMO	-0*CW7’ OnC* <>J	- ■	■ - HOW	WWW							1 >.		c.		
														
						. .i rf		y		'V		.> „■		
												! *		■■ "f„
	032 ] 0005		Tectaok>gi*t,Nud Mad, Trainee |		$4,350	$25.00								
			0*011*1 ’	. HJB	oan*« MMIW	te»	OMMt MWWlMM	' *«	(MUM OK*	■	M	. n»							- c				
														
						>				•*				
														
	032	9006	TecfmotooM.Nuc Med,Sr,Par Di	|	0401/07	$7,830	$46 JOO						3	$8,700	$60.00
			rm pi 5 8X8 § 8 8 8 Illi					।		<■				»■ n ।
								j						
														
														
	032 I	9009	TachmtooM, Nuc Mad, Pd	| 0401/07		$8,960	$40.00							$7330	$46.00
			MOOtfe**'	tea ’ wtrw M*Ot*p	UM	' WW 8HHWWMIIII	..10*	MJWLe DfrCK	IWD	'ttJMOO											
						* ' ’*■		X •		" i X Y'"		f	f		
														
								1 ■						-
	036 | 8082		OrthcptfO, 8r	[ 044314)7		$4JB»		$W«	$2909	$6.7»	$3333	$8381	$3807	$6962	44001
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1, 2007
	Link Code	TWO Cod*	TWO Nome		ZONE									
					MMnum		Zone 2		Zones		Zone 4		Maximum	
				Puff										
						. Mowty ;	■HMr	MM* '		ra^v.		HMN* ■■	ItortM,	llBUd>
L A	035	8083	OrthopM	04/01/07	$4,196	$24.11	$4,686	$26.93	$5,175	$29.74	$5,665	$32.56	$6,156	$35.38
			•»!**•"$, M	"s *■ J W -, J?			<		V-'-S'						- .„>•
						.,^7		SV C\		-				
								? j		""•£■•. a'		h. 4. 4- ■•		
						•i		ST* .• .		£7		.'Lf ->■		
	106	0240	Phyddst, HoepHal Reflation	04/01/07	$10X40	'ieo.ob						*jVL "?	$13,770	$79.14
	106	9241	PhyekH. Hospital Rad, Amt	04/014)7	$9,474	$5445		/ ■ ’					$12,497	#71^2
GJ
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Unk Coda	TTtte Coda	TMaNamo		ZONE									
					Minimum		Zone 2		Zone3		Zone 4		Maximum	
				EflMUve Dsb*										
					MM		1 Hurtt..-,		M°<n*		■mw	«««*■?	Me iiftS	
R 1 V E R S 1 D E	RIVERSIDE													
	027 | 8830		Scientist SpecfcdW, Cl Lab	03/30/07	$3,701	$21.27	$4,273	♦24418	$4,846	$27.65	$5,418	$31.14	$5,991	$34.43
			r^#*3rF>-	''	'•	v MHW*sen . ■	1	i«Mr> tWM MMW8AM ,	; '' s	- /<• <*1 OwOdl	.	'tr'»»											
						- >_4		*isr		V'fci a		fit ‘"d		* \-rf- ■
						v ’ * 1 /		jvr tx				• :		*K»' f
								T, t	<	* *				5 *		
	027 | 8940		Scientist, Ctlnfcal Lab	03/30/07	$3363	$1033	$3,884		$4,404	S2&3T	$4,924	so	$5,446	iai jo
			tut ^V’owjw» MtOVWMMal •■. OMM’’ , ''S-	.'-* i	-f.lBj	/ / IB. ..i			■		' 's <■ ~		J		-s’l*' 1 I		
						rah								•-* - --Jlr-f
						s. * j L.		t'7^ $				*		
						' - ?				r~-				
	028	9246	Pharmacist, Sr	03/30/07	$5,908			~ ■'	$7,846	44U		-K	$9,694	£S6.71
	028	9248	PharmacM, Staff 1	03/30/07	$5,453	£31.34		/,»	$7,137	$4102			$8,822	JK.70
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Unk	TWe Cocte	TftaNama		ZONE									
					tOntmum		Zona 2		Zona 3		Zona 4		Maximum	
				Ma										
								^>hmV*	IMW	: 'IM*i	■MW I Hartt		»>** L?**-	
8 N D 1 E Q 0	BAN DEGO													
	026 ] 5421		DM6Rn,Pd	04AI1/07	54,221					’;k:z		-rXf>n^<if /		■Us & >
			w.„ 1 aur yL, ° eml NKAM ir f, V	'A'			■		jr				iJ&MEi’		s
						Si'A'Iii		:■ ’.‘-A 3						'%•; ri’jXX
										*i£' ’^7		"kay4*/ 41		
								■ r r»				?!.-		
	026	5426	DUHanl	04/01/07	$3,160	iiite				1.4			$4,778	
	027	8938	Scientist Spee.CIn Lab,Sr	04/01/07	$4^11	$2420							$7,355	$4247
			' A' ♦ tSA^T- ' V* 2 J.’ “ ., p	• *'t‘ "*•*** J	#w» atwIiwM^ XtfevX	iwamiiX					5i sM’;		* 2X?*4f £				
								ii «,?>;				1 - a		s
														
								-sr*!™:		'K’s-.Z ~’t		i<s; ms		fess S
	027	8939	Scientist SpecMslCI Lab	04/01/07	$3,826	#1&		X4 X' * *		dl Sjlhl .■»££		** *'	$6401	>46
			wwealiwi"^’ v	i ■MMftMght ‘V'.' ■'' '•- t^SMOJ.1 *%£»»•«£j aewnwaawA z"?	stM-s '7. ' -’	> - ; ’ * xi? H?*	- ‘ T*J ’ ’	% HjV'- ■' •*• $' IWOS.,, , S<V									’^3 -. '/>		■S^Xg,
						S^X *A '		& -i'fc				’r^fcV’r *x		
								x*f				'-'"’ -x *«		’ ■ s?..^
								■-x’<11.*^		Wl&- /				
	027	8940	Scientist, ethical Lab	1	04/01/07	$3,478					<X^ £*x >		ffrJrr$?Vj,	$5460	$3043
			'■	Sst£ wwwfe" eiie-’ JV' ’■< ■'"■^ ■'J Vz"'. «»v ■ v , Mem ’ “							41 A"'				trsFwi
						?		s.	X		‘3 z X				, . P-'"'
										-.' XW^x*				
						-v -				i< *'?*_ ,*1. j		**£££*1		tor i^fe
	fy>7 1	AOA*	n n4r_-^ QmLv	__	I AAJTHln?		ej *14?			iYha. . »■■■!		—.1 .iri-r ■•» "J			<5OJ	iW
			*earaw*a ‘ ‘'A '''">■■ ’ ,**® :	«ww»: ’. r 7 .	-t.rtl -fry T-T-. -l+iy	*4	f X seams ,~.r-"' ~*:a ,rMs»~. rs—j- jewer-,			, -- *		x^r, x		* p.				f
						■ "•■%;•* j				♦-3P.4.X* :		? X ’Tri		SFTJfVTT
			r ’^■’r i	, am,. .“'sw«e»’ ’			£	K		*>.«' -c -		-J1 t		X X		4s*,	X
									I			-		\!
	027 | 6056		SdantMCOn Lab.Par Dtam	1	04/01/07	$5405	w»				■TtX-*"		KY,^-4 c;		tfTfXlj Wy -.2*v 1t^'
						s		' $						
			X i - ;z	,;• - amaawiaiirni-^^-* *>.V^p -jm». ' -	: wmB'		«. LT si		.'$3*						
				. .WMS;				f*> >	<' V •	*? S						Ji>A
			o<km " : ’■'■' •, , r -	- «*ubi t ‘			A , ’ ’4tT		■ ;		ad?t^		*1 ^X:,		,s..? X
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
116
	link Cotto	TIB* CO*	TttteNatm		ZONE									
					Minimum		Zone 2		Zones		Zone4		Maximum	
				LiTvClW* Date										
					NMtM*		Maotfie	’ Hw^	MootNy	Hata	IMNy		MouMy	Ho**
s A N D 1 E G O	027	8057	Scientist CUn Lab .Apprentice	01/01/03	$3,076	$17.88				V-				* ?
			ww&eity	■■■■	’ ww« , crow»_. awHMITONwN .	?' WK- -	W»VM *' imm	roi :	owuoi			f a		Is,. .						■4 t 'S' '
								- *•		..J				
								, H		-•, i .<•		z. '		
						’ i'. -		.. *,		Vi.V .		-■f* -?. *>^4.		5F /T’
	027 | 8059		Scientist, Qin Lab,Spec,Pd	04/01/07	$5,700	$^2.7<				;"Vrf ‘5’				
			7 '	’ two < ’orow> O7®1'W .?“< ‘..‘.Ha “‘a 1,1“®’“J; Ofrcoif’-f .."-y-					, * .1						^r<;
								7.		•Jf » i		,	t*”. '		r- ’J
								i -< >		jSa , L L*’ £		s z , .4		
										/»/;		*		
	027	8997	CYtotechnolofltat, Sr, Per Diem	04/01/07	$6,558	$37.89		s*’		•				■ / Jc,.
			roeoteweio, ! ".;	-two - : _ crows’ <*>»	"i’ <S $4' jf ' ' mshmmu* .. ,, ’	»** . .;; mmiimm ®'-"	. , tiro _ CM» ’	■ y «i'» '’(nWbv					i. z	'		4* ' /'		; "	j		/"X *» ■> ''
						. » F . <*'						> Z-		J
						_ 4. u ,				i i ' vnj		?		’	‘”'„X '
										,	'-S’;-				
	027	9202	Physician Assistant, Senior	04/01/07	$5,236	i30.09				- '			$7,912	14547
			f*®****'.*	- L MtatwoMwo'	-' =<< yitro	crows-. ‘t'i	~	\ " M' 7 ■' * ’. 04OCW4 ■			-r-t,	'				•, *.				"•* s.
						■ ’		*				«• T J '		»■ '
						' '' S				K				.s	*>
										3		• ♦ - -.Z’ UMMMH		
	027 | 9203		Physician Asst	1 04/01/07		$4,764	$27.38		** •■- r.		. 'l,vr			$7,202	i4tLsb
			wraraMre	<	w-w	onmm	! ,	...tsro 7	'mows MHWMWwiil \ .	> O’™®*;-' OMN ’	'	a*	1	OSWM	.					aS' V				\ '* . , .1		. 13*1	?
						U-.	* •■..		•»-		r.>	■ . .		*		,
						*		i» ‘'	'	'		'* -		M 1		
										J-S'W		w < 1		L Z "
	028	9246	Pharmacist, Sr	04/01/07	$5,438	$31 JIS						/	$10,671	<81.33
	028	9247	Pharmacist, Staff II	04/01/07	$5,438	$31 is				**9		.' Ih	$10,557	J60.6?
			WMWftrotm	T	i	-tuo	lMW teawewit^ ->r x, -	»J5	m •-'•'•rf’fi -WT"^ IS. >■	'-."t"	f r- V	»' 41 * s mmmwmnm, ^4 J,	*twsw,■ x+*«»W rotas'	.L	■> '«*.	,maant”			r		r !-				<1 * $•		
						.5	J?..			• •			VsA-rfS*/		J □	,■71!*’ - ■_
														
						Ik <■ Vf				*> “ ’ *		7 *u		c tit	,
						'-1 . \						? ■		
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Link Coda	TWe Goda	Title Name		ZONE										
					Mntmum			Zona 2		Zone3		Zone 4		Maximum	
				Ma											
					MW	<-= HW		MmW		Mu M		NoriMy		M«w	IhmW '
8 A N D I E 0 0	028	9248	PtarmacM. Staff!	04/01/07	$4,940	$2839			.-^	s^*				< 1	$7,553	$4341
			.A: ,-L	' MH»WI	MUlf;!’* —WIWV ‘ ■' »»•-;« 3»Cktf	< u	~	« 0W0W ,						’ A ■		ft		•* J ■ y '+i£s		' -'■ >tfKX
									•IM*., ■*•						
						.A £			4 ’ v		?irt. s>				
						;t<rv							,’**.*		
	028 | 8250		Pharmaciat II, Par Dtem	04/01/07	$9,523	45473									
			i. -	W*! Daaar-SU'S	,f'a t'TMafc-ii.-Sj.s*. ,MMi5			■-			,T				J		
									<						
									■' T "■**.		S'		T'W:;'		A	•'
						kAs			•3PW						
	029	8286	Counaeior, Genetic III	04/01/07	$3,612	825	1.76							$5,464	
	029	9287	Cotmaeior, Genetic JI	04/01/07	$3263	1?	lib		’,		VS-.^Aa			$4566	WMk
															
	029	9313	Social Worker, ClWcal III	04/01/07	$3,821	izisB					■*;:		$5?	$6,179	&$61
	029	9314	Social Worker, CMcall!	04/01/07	$3,471	'W					jU		££ifcf	$5,507	
	029	9315	Social Worker, Carted, 1	04/01/07	$3,355	$1828					j4		.4.5,	$4,484	
			aeHKNMMM. JMaufc S t	WkfVr£ MMM •								?•		]		
											■*r.A				
						-M?			r.v> 's®				.71!^',’*		■4^ ‘L$!
									■,T^ i		rx^aejA				■? M«‘s't> i
	029	9316	SocW Worker II, CIMcal PD	1 04/01/07		$5,171	H7?							..		’■■>!/ 7*e
			MMwaeree 1 ■arwriv**’*'^;^*;’ y^i/'aMD ' ; ow«rr —r?. h.		^atauai^						4*r-	ts		?*rr'a ,*j-				•L- - 7
											■< w •		»•■ k - V”		$ Tfjy
						' -	•- r							. ■ 4-^ ■		
											-c		'* £i: •*;		
	029	9392	PayctarnetM, Sr	04/01/07	±2,969	IW							SSWUMiAL'jilJ		
	029	9393	Paychormtatat	04/01/07	$2573	$1479							iH^izoniEiro		
	s .	‘	'l		Biiwieaanrw jj-fe *■	»>>/{ OWtK#^ »*»**«^								■*^’? ,TX		, / ■* '		.Th_,
											■^5^	t-j ■		>rV		»«■> .J.
					l ,					t			> ^r - ' *		
						*^11.			zSS^S&ti						
	030 | 9383		‘’ayctaogttil	| 04/01/07		±4,628	TSFIK ^sSL			■- r-		!>X' ¥''			$6598	
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
118
		TMe Cod*	Title Nome		I	ZONE									
					[ Minimum		Zone 2	1	Zone 3				Zone 4		Maximum	
	Code			Dwto										
					ere	• muirf	■criMy	"'MmW4	Mare*	‘ NMftfr J	■ore*	How*		
	030	9384	Psychologist 1	04/01/07	$4,206	$24,17		v\		-	-t		•<L	$6356	
8 A N D 1 E G 0	031	9488	Therapist, Recreation 1	04/01/07	<3,162	<1617		i t A f**				* J?i' ■	$4,778	$27.48
	031	9472	Pathologist, Speech, Sr	04/01/07	$3,299	$18190		.<<. S'?-		’ , „ ' <3		;■ ar -■	$5819	833z44
	031	9473	Pathologist, Speech	04101/07	$3,003	$1726		1 *		I’■'4. *		*//■•-'	$4,538	tSkOS
	031	9474	Audiologist Sr	04/01/07	<4,084	$2347		. X .		r’*’			$6,125	<3IL20
	031	9475	Audiologist	04/01/07	$3,717	fe1**		/■ rf.’»		1*. ’ Ta i		' ? "1 '*	$5,575	<32.04
	031	9478	Audiologist, her Diem	04/01/07	85,514	$3189		> J. El-.		k£:				
			SMMdMVt ■'	Bj®	. vmnm‘* seotWiwin) ~	jfiire As 'Y OTmu cecaiV	'V.-	’			’F.						-IV’t't' *" .■		
						. -;<«• 9* ;		p t iKV,						
						, *				?'L. x.				IT* -a.
						•*/ t*, i'								
	031 |	9498	Therapist OocupaOonal II	1 0W1/D7		$4,014	<2307				.».'	ra		# A	$6,374	^U03
			MreceBertns';.^^' ’ • * '■pa", arenrrngi;-.. ' ■}■	" 7 - .ZretO'jH' -wotmi' swiwwibui '....-	■ lia> •, /Z were# ' ’ omm	' -w»>‘ -r■ iiaSeifc				-			T‘~S,,		1J		
						' IT				r ■	t		x „*		lat '
										$ i\ $ - ■				’■£ Sfb
						"i $		. '"k				1	'z ’ *		jV a«!
	031 | 9499		Therapist, Occupational 1	!	04/01/07	$3,647	$20.96		- + * *•		'		J1F1	$5,516	<31.70
			saMJWewwe'7 5y-	’ cranes r, sw-oatSra	-'tiKUU’" sHMMWaeare' , ■> «•	' < ifflw .' cede a .	»s • oioins			.	* r‘		•7 •.	*1'.		.2 ICUUv •H'.a-.				X- s-
						/i *		/ <*.'				■4b "\r		A . i.
								*> /' -		:	-4.*"		'	. r		1 •sJA
										k“ <<■				;c .‘ ' '
	032 | 9003		Technologist, Nuclear Med, Sr	1	04/01/07	$4,451	<25.58				J'			$6,565	837.73
			MHWSMiina-.	A *-< HOC - wows '	■” 1 <$„	I I>	«»	-i ‘*r, r h.„ MMWM** .	. v	' e**, . \ crews - snooewniign '	, onpuM ■ XW.’	-.-.v	re*	I					" -4		' *		*’ 7 ■ *■		4* v ■ ,
										' . ¥■		/'7«-		t \	'
								T * 1				■ %.* ♦		J ,
								P-	HZ''		. 4!^'d				?■	3L,
	032 I 9006		TechnoloaistNucMedAr.RerDi 1	04/01/07	$6,563	<3{.72				AP 2		r n J		
			rewMrei. j ; • .\,sw„ aMM^NVK^^	^viui^.re*; irenewiiiiwr „ yj j.. two V/ < snow-- OMMIi’ ■d?*?	owner s											
										1 '	'"l.				- y
								v 4/						
						*						** t		*7
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Unk Goda	TWe Code	TWe Name	EffOcttva Date	ZONE									
					Minimum		Zona 2		Zona 3		Zona 4		Maximum	
														
						‘W»		ffe«riy	Martha	s ifetiiv«	MMlNy	Hnrfy.		lta«*
8 0	035	8083	Orthootiet	04/01/07	$4,032	$23.17							$6,036	$3449
			KMOIMM.r- *l ’■ i ”	“«»»»> '									, ? * *		r t. "
						-r “		.r”'*				; x -v .		' n /'<■
			sMwwwwtuod'	.r.	s ' •	•> l	-	" s	x-	"* otMSd v/ui.-, %&;	5tnwu»^								\p?-		
				'ouotm'										
119
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1, 2007
	LMt Code	TWe Gode	Title Name		ZONE									
					Minimum		Zone 2		Zone 3		Zone 4		Maximum	
				Date										
					MoflWy	I riiiiirt	tatty	HwfV	ItorttNy	Heurt»			UonWr	
s A N T A C R U Z	SANTACRUZ													
	027	8939	Scientist SpedallsLCI Lab	04/01/07	$4,312	$24.78	$4,931	$2834	$5,552	$31.91	$6,174	$35.48	$6,795	$39.08
			•* ’I' hi mi									- < '		
								- ’						
										.i	f.				’1
														
	027	8840	Scientist, Clinical Lab	04/01/07	$3,918	$22.52	$4,484	$25.77	$5,049	$29X2	$5,613	$32.26	$8,177	$36X0
			18 i1 *■ 8 < < £• '“r = hl mi							•u. ..	•				
						* t	‘		J fc. 4		4’				r’ ^4
														".‘"s ■
												‘ < T,		. *r -J
	027 | 9202		Physician Assistant, Senior	04/01/07	$5,182	$29.78	$5,629	$33X0	$6,476	$37.22	$7,125	$40.95	$7,771	$44.68
			MMNfftaMg 1 . ? ‘t	f m iA _ ... .	*	.-m	.-	i»' ■ mofWHMpd	.	li^o	eww OMeil i	r aii' * ' ' ‘' ftp											<.	t'- '
														
														
														
	027	9203	Physician Asst	04/01/07	$4,710	$27.07	$5,298	$3045	$5,866	$33X3	$6,475	$37 J1	$7,061	$40.56
			MMMTEwMno -	ri» *	m WHWNV*'	' J"T" -e®, ’ MMNFWpttand .	>140 •	DMW OMja	- <■	n»< '											r
								*						-s
														
						< ’ '						r t		
	027	9204	Physician Assistant, Per Diem	04/01/07	$7,767	$44.84								
			rm Hl a j^a-a.											>4 t
												/		-
														
										t		-		
	028	9246	Phannectet, St	04/01/07	$6,810	$39.14			$6,516	148.94			$10,219	$68.73
	028	9248	PharmadsL Staff 1	04/01/07	$6,193	$36.59			$7,736	$44.48		,U’r	$9X79	$63X3
			hl:' ri,-3 e «* hi im									?	0.		
										~ J					1 ■
												' -		
										.4				
HX Appendix A Year 1
BflecBve April 1,2007
	Link Coda	TOa Cotto	Hito Name	El^Cliw Date	ZONE									
					Minimum		Zona 2		Zone 3		Zons4		Maximum	
														
						1, Hn«V	Mofittdy	Ho«,	MMMy			Ho«y		*mv
8 A H T A B A R B A R A	SANTA BARBARA													
		T3&	bietitlanl	M/01/07	$3,113	$17.89	$3,316	$19.06	$3,533	$20.30	84,152	$2336	$4,663	$26 A)
	b$7	8040	Scientist, Clinical Lab	04/01/07	$3,979	$2267	$4,240	$24.37	$4,517	$25.96	$5309	$3061	$5,973	$34.33
			< *	“ •>»".	MI»U . **®*W<7^*f- ";.,X < -	_ ’■;• oww, BMWMMMnd.	■■	rt" ~ ■,	. m . t *v	Kr	-	„ 4 OtKM	■ t* <• x > m			S -	*						w J ' s'		
												/id		*7 * 1
						’ > *				-1 r		' ’k -		
						( '■		■ * ..		54 ■<$.		r	-r *		
	027		Physician Asst	04/01/07	$4,822	#•*<	$5,136	$2962	$5,471	131.44	$6,429	$36.96	$7,233	■<41'37
	bib	9246	Pharmacist, ir	04/oW	$7,741	$44.49				*		’ '•* rr.j .	$9,791	$58217
	028	0246	Pharmacist, Staff I	04/01/07	$7,059			-	<T’ 1		•«’, _--v		\ tt , . » j	$8681	±61^4
	029	931J	Social Worker, Clinical III	04/01/07	$3,950	$22.70	$4,217	±2424	$4,492	$2682	$4,279	±24.59	$5,742	'feaoo
	02$	&14	Social Worker, finical II	04/01/07	$3,574	$2064	$3,807	$2168	$4,054	iza.30	$4,768	$27.40	$5,187	±29.81
	bib	9315	Social Worker, Clinical, I	04/01/07	$3,109	$1767	$3,311	$1963	$3,529	$20.28	$4,146	$23.±3	$4,512	$25,93
	030	9385	Psychologist II	44AHA)7	$4,552	£&1«	$4,849		$5,168		$6,071	$34.89	$6,830	$39.25
	030	9&4	Psychologist I	04/01/07	$4,139	$23.79	$4,409	±25.^4	$4,698	th loo	$5321	$31.73	$6,203	$35.65
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
122
	Link Cod*	IMa Coda	TWaNama	Mat. _**.	ZONE									
					MMnutn		Zone 2		Zone 3		Zone 4		Maximum	
				ElMGUW Data										
						i «•**	MMddy	mwtr	MofltMy	Mowir	ttxMy	hmV	itontNy	
1 R V 1 N E	IRVINE													
	028	5421	Dietitian, Pd	04/01/07	$5,116	$29.40				* *		‘ -f		
	028	5428	Dietician t	04/01/07	$3,583	$20,59	$3,833	$22.03	$4,063	$23.35	$4,286	^24.52	$4,708	
	vn	8938	Scientist Spec,Clin Lab,Sr	04/01/07	$5,429	$31.20	$5,808	$33.38	$6,158	$35.39	$6,466	$37.16	$7,113	*4048
			MMXtaMNre _	|i.7»	• MA1AT MUMIMni	_	n.' •	' *n»; , On-C* *	* '~	' tMMSt									• •*		-t.
						’	* *1				r ?		S	X.		
										. V *				
														f
	027 I	8939	Scientist Specialist,Cl Lab	04/01/07	$5,304	$30.48	$5,674	$32.61	$6,015	$34417	$6,316	$36.30	$6,969	$40.05
			MMWHait-■ ' - -	“ '0MW 4r -r ■ .	"	, 4 . MMS VMaM \	'm	n 4 ■ “ / V.?	OMJUET '			7 * ?				-f	- 9		■ ■iv*'		
								!* *						J,
								» 4, <		■i				
												■ Jr. x		‘ t. *’/J
	027 |	8940	Scientist, Clinical Lab	1 0*01/07		$4,811	$27.65	$5,149	$2959	$5,457	$3136	$5,730	132.93	$6,321	$36.33
			,1* 's Hi							’$ •,<< r				?*)
										1 ,				
										•>				1 - r
						- 7’		* *-				' *T,		’ ■ f*
	027 |	8954	Cytotechnologlst, Senior	f O4/0W7		$5,568	$32.00	$5,958	$3474	$6,314	$3679	$6,831	ia8.tf	$7,315	$424M
			8 £ -! t V ts * ■ hi mi									*	7		
						•b		V		- -i*-				■ r -
						J		r.		■i				
						7						' '	17,	'•1		’v -
	027 | 8955		Cytotechnotoflist	| 04/01X17		$5,304	$30.48	$5,674	$32.61	$6,015	4»^7	$6,316	$38.30	$6,969	<40.06
			s’ S 1 I # ' s a ?! r’ hl mi			•. *, '						J * ■		4
														J ■
														■ ■ 1
										f L<		tri. ,.	'	_		i *■ :
	027 | 8966		Scientist,Clin Lab,Per Diem	1 04/01/07		$8,264	isa.oo								
			*««{**«■ .	„»i.» J,"	s MUMNtft	' ’ < tt-tt . , M91W -							y» <	”		X.		.	„ *• J
										/ri				
										lx.				s	*„
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April i, 2007
NJ
05
	Link Gode	TH* Coda	TMeName		ZONE									
					MHmum		Zone 2		Zcm3		Zone 4		Maximum	
				Dato										
									MMtfNy	i-mws’*		v	MmiWifr	*■*»
			ciMw'k?	a	aun	weftT			'z				>T 1? '				
I R V I N E	027	8957	Scientist, Qin Lab>\pprenHce	10/01/00	83,480	$20J»		■t, it" * '		’ A				j.*»r i
	027	8997	CytotechnoiogM, Sr, Per Diem	04/01/07	$7,134	$4W						*■**”' -tsi		
			*#*• ...•_ *	z.-**	a	~ * 4 'r fe”.			:i. i				■<^.,■4= i		V		r i. <.
														
						V?		!;						
						f z S'. ■		f-	' L		r *-#«..		. 8L-f«		
	027	9202	Physician Assistant, Senior	04/01/07	$6,807	439.12	$7284	44138	$7,720	$444ff	$8,167	4W-	$8,944	'4eN 38
	027	9203	Physician Asst	04/01/07	$6,445	S&4	$6396	$39.83	$7310	4<2.01	$7,675	$44.11	$8,470	44838
	028	9246	Pharmacist, Sr	04/01/07	$7379	atfJco		.‘iwisfc				-*i' li r ,j	$10,353	$6030
	028	9247	Pharmacist, Staflh	04/01/07	$7305	4x3.13			$8310	K*8			$9381	4M
			OMWBiNSv'atA' OmM ft J- *. -'t,:d* ,j ns w*J.					5> ' z p7				i'.'Wifck		
						,,-i. */r								
														^•iirr^^-*1
								ft		a-*, ijrlt		*•*		
	028 | 8248		Pharmacist, Staff 1	104/01/07		$7,146	4/1.07		"I	$8302	W.1#			$9391	
			MMesmks' ■swaeet .*.• „	~ WJS*»-sir			i* 7U'								
						•ft1						i ■£		
			mhw****i r5' £> A	> "ji *« '• - • s > "T «	*a>						s’wx£		'e-'zsA,		
				.	*4								T- ,’3 t> ,		
	028 I 0249		Pharmacist, bw Diem	04/01/07	$10340	4^bo		*->>$/ 4.?						.1}^: ''£<r£ *
			ft	i. Trxn.j $4,78	**s hwwwiww	a/ri._~Jj>gM>?-~							.	’<£ i ;		’S3*'*		
						x. . •, s,		,5tt*	.7		. . Ar *				k
			r. x.'*7 «*wrrs '■■■ ■*-	■ D—fr „	11	' f"	‘(L,? 1 tf " ~+ jtiL * '					^-L-T^'wT -z -		-a-—--?*	■- ■ - -		— .	
								r	?*						
	029	9285	Counselor, Genetic Hi	04/01/07	$3352	W30	$3,908		44,143	toast	44360		$4301	
	029	9287	Counselor, Genetic 11	04/01/07	$3,316	itwn	$3,548		$3,782		43,950		44359	■ 2S.U&
	029	9288	Counselor, Genette I	04/01/07	$2342	iu«t	$2,720	■rR	$2383		$3328	w	$3,341	■ft,
	029	9310	Social Worker, Ctn,Pd, Licensed	04/01/07	$8388		1				1			■4 Jie?
	029	9313	Social Worker, ClWcai ill . :	04/01/07	b?93	w	$4388	feCTkaJj	$4349		$6,196		$6,733	
	029	9314	Social Worker, Clinical II	04/01/07	$4,156		$4346	TO	$4,714	$27.06	44349	W1'	$8380	
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Lbtk Coda	TMa Coda	TMaNwna			ZONE									
						womint		Zonal		Zana 3		Zone 4		Maximum	
					Date										
						IM*		IM*	1 «««»•	■nirt)					
	088	9315	Social Worker. Clinical, 1		04101X17	83,770		84,033	*23.18	*4,275		34,489	*25.*b	34,954	*28.47
	028	8316	Social Worker It, dlnlcal V B		04X71 Kff	*5,296	*30-45				' ' *		* ,		
I R V I N E	028	8346	thftl Development Assoc		04/01/07	83316		53,548	tern	33,762	821 J*2	83,950	**2.?0	34,359	MM
	028	8362	ShlidLJbStwciayil		04/01/07	83,830	82241	84,096	^3.53	84343		34.561	32641	85,034	
			Maiftami _	...	- «wtre - WMWMgt*/...»	. MOW. >	' ' y- . m '	!	% CMS* A*V- . ■	.bf				..■>1						■ / \		
													r'. ’V		■ft - ??
									-		»'->* * I-Y				
							A- A-		* < i 1						
	029	9353	Chid Life Specialist 1		04/01/07	83,316	*ia3e	33,548		53,762	*214)2	83,950	$22.79	34,359	*25.06
			mournt i	tijo ’	owim ■S*. 4*.	„ ft	T <■	fr-i 0 /<r* ■<. ' V 1	>?-; V'seue ■	\	" SMWdWtilrl OMM U. j>,	A				a, '		* * .7 \		i’i ■’l t:''*				
							7?		/■'		A *»/ 4		< ■		■*? a* r?t
							R-4	* £ -		afcs__..						c as.4"*
							s- i~"-		k f- ?■>						37 V
	Kill	9392	Psychometrist, Sr		K£dlLil	33,316	<18XMI	83,548		53,762	*21.62	33,950		34,359	f?06
	K£1 ■*M	9383	Psychom etrist			32,878	51644	33,080	I#.*	83^64	818.76	53,428	*19.70	83,783	£1.74
		9383	Psychologist II			85,846		36,255		56.631	**8.11	36,962	840.01	37,682	MM
	Kiil	9384	Psychologist 1		Ki2dLii	35,303	830.48	85,674	532.61	564)15	'*3467	36,316	Mal	36,968	*4.06
	Kill	9451	Therapist, Music		UULil	33,831		53,831	<22.0*	54,061	823.34	34,265	*24.51	34,707	
	Lil	9465	Therapist, Recreation II		KiULil	33,581		83,831	82W	84,061	83344	34,265	82441	34,707	*2746
	Kill	8468	Therapist, Recreation I		Eldlil	83,254	w#	83482	320411	83,681	|5iii	83,875	<22.27	34475	*2447
	Kill	9471 ’ST?' *94731 *94M] TBSl 9491I ’9496] "5355]	Speech, Pathologist, Per Diem		KMii	87,743	*4440		-L.r				.. ”?*■		
	Killl			st, Speech, Sr st, speech it. Sr it Oocupa,Per blem, Fl Occupa, Per Diem 1 Occupational It	| Occupational 1		35488	*^40	85,958		56,314		38,631	838.11	37,315	*42.04
	Killl		[■2TinVy7>		Kt^iKii	85,304	UM	85,674		36,015	w.	36,316	«630	86,969	34046
	Killl				liZiikll	54,811	*2745	85,149		85,457	Ul48	85,730		56,321	
	Killl				■UMM	34,364	8254*	84,670	82864	*4850	*38.45	55,197	52947	85,733	'MM
	Killl		UKCriCr?		K'lvifai	87,666	*44#								
	Killl		iirTTrri Hl.J ;LS]		K&ilLil	38,890	*3960.								< 1 ' >>
	Killl				KildLiil	35,568	■W	55,958	*3414	56314	*36^9	88.831	338.11	57,315	34204
	Killl		iirrms		KC?n.'kl	55,304	53048	55,674	'*3^'1	86,015	83467	86,316	'MM'	86,969	WB1
HX Appendix A Year 1
Effective April 1,2007
	Link Code	TOe Code	IWeHeme	EtMhe Me	ZONE									
					■mnnum		Zone 2		Zones		Zona 4		Maximum	
														
								hmV			■MW	UMI*	M$MY	WW
1 R V 1 N E	032	9003	Technotoplst, Nudeer Med, Sr	04/01/07	$5,846	$33.60	$6,256	$35.96	$8,631	$38.11	$6,982	$40.01	$7,682	$44.15
			lid lrt 1 f tf hl mi			i.								
												■* ’■		—	i «
										■x !		*		r	i
						*								■ f. '
	032	9004	TechndocM NudearMedidne 104/01/07		$5568	|324»	$5,958	$3454	$6314	$3629	$6,631	^8.11	$7315	$^2X4
			■ME*****	MJB	001*1 M«n*f■ .j •	«*u* . cooiei MMWOn /,	\	- a»oa':' ?	. ..'mm .. oacusi											
								r-	<■						
										•+		1 A.-		' 3
								.	J						
	032 | 9006		TedmotooteLNuc Med.Sr.Per Df	04/01/07	$7,482	^4350				• * .		t.*' ’		-I .	1^4.
			mi m J J, ’ ' 71 fc “ »‘8 8 i<i											
						* .»* .«■		' 7*.1		*•		*		‘4V	■
								•r	-J						•>‘.y ■ ■
								£ ~ ?						
	036	8962	Orthoptist, Sr	I 04/01/07		$4,811	$2756	$5,149	$29J9	$M57	$3186	$6,730	$3253	$8321	$3883
			WMIMkigi;	„ ,, ■ MM ,	_ m*UM •**■■** . , vf,’ , ’Imo QfrM	‘	?	«	" *					■ *				"-S-		
								V - 4				ir < J		
								*		■		•rr	'	'		”	-*.4
						-								
	035 | 6083			*»- *	1 unnopust	i	04/01/07	$4,384	$26.08	$4,670	$2884	$4,960	$28.48	$5,187	'®JB7	$5,733	$32.85
			MOIBvwtor	O»W1					■’f- -						
			HMVWMOM ■"*	* M	'HO				—					—		• -
												— c. -*		-
	106	9240	» 1	*«_■		M_al	 HlyMCMt, ntMpuBI KBOMDOn	04/01/07	±5,568	w	$5566	$3454	$6314	$36.29	$6,631	$38.11	$7,315	$42.04
	106	9241	Ptiydclrtt HtMpfffll Rod, Ant	04/01/07	$4364	$2556	$4,670	$2684	$4850	tee.44	$6,197	nr	fe.733	iOi
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
126
	Unk Cod*	TW* Cod*	TH* Han*		8 T E P 8		1			2			3		4		6	
						«		7			8		8		10	
						ii		13			13		14		15	
				CM*		18		17			18		19		20	
						21		22			23		24		25	
						2S		27			28		29		30	
						fe4*	IW*I	M08«E				M$w*.	MClMNr	MM*	■■Aft	M ■
B E R K E L E Y	BERKELEY															
	on				V*	l&Ma-1		$3,TA	tri 2*						$3,940	faLS"
					Ml	$4,021	tt3.11	$4,102	US'lsi		$4,215		$4087	*2401	*4053	slip
					1M»	*4.440	tfd.52	$4,528	82602		84,619		$4,711	*1707	$4006	&r|3:
					1MI	H*oF	"S.P	t*,6M	'WK		tS^H	"crar	$5^161	rttO.OO	$5,306	830.40
	027 |8839		3d*nM SpedaUd a lab	| 07/01/07		M	is, 19$	iked	$6098	830.46		86.405	ikod	$5,612	*310*	$5,823	'isa'.gr
			■ t. .	. ~	....	• :		Ml	$5,735	eiar	$5,660	BE		85067	W*	$8,087	$3498	$206	HKBT
					♦Ml	$6032		$6,458	$37.11		$6,588	HOd	$6,720	Mil	*8054	*MS"
					<MI	fe,Hl	UH8	$7,141	$4006							
	027 |BMO		SdantM OWcd Lab	0701/07	14	84,722	W.U'	$4,818	827.68		84,912	ii«03	$6,010	•tei	$6,111	. 829.17-
			t	;	‘	*’	,	'	J '	■		Ml	*5013	*Hid	$5,318	$3008		$5,423	■ Hi.iy	$5032		$5,643	
					1MI	85,756	$33.06	$5,871			85,989	HGi	$6,108	issiF	$6030	lOr
					♦Ml	$8055	*30,^2	*8,481								p -
	"nr	aBBT	SdoMke^UKR		TfflDWF	f4	86.42/	831,19									■*■
		926*	Phytictan AMtetert	070107	u	TEBT		M.5H	$80. $9		W.416			ISliO	U.M	Hijr
			*".*■’ ’ * -		Ml	86,761	M	$5,876	UH		$5,994	Ek4d	fe.113	Ml*	6X235	Hff
					♦Ml	88060		$6,487	URSI		$6,617	$38-0$	$6,749	-MH	$8084	*M.8T
					♦MB	$7,022	PfliM	$7,161	lil.id		87006	|41.99				
	Ms	9204	PhpIdanAnbM.ffi		W5T	14	S&2BB	84702									
		H4*	PtWITMCttf Steffi	070107	14	$7,043	W.H'			3OF	V.Ml	I41M	*4,111	Mil	$8074	84700’
			- * - * ' . * , /		Mi	$8,439	Mio	$8,006		4#.4V	$8,780	Md.46	$8,966	*61.4/	$9,135	$8200
					IMS	tWF		$9003	i	BOT						
	Ter	Tew			M	89,«i“	1MW									
	029	0313	SodM Wortar, CUntoai III	6MM7			84063	IMU	IWS4			84.748	HI-S	*4,445	$27.83	14,*3*	■TOT
			ft:	'**,"*.	“	\		Ml	$5,036	Mid	$5,144			$6,242	/io	$5,347		$6,453	154.51
					♦Ml	*8063	Uiw	$5,674	isiil		*5,788	BS3T	ts&ir	*&**	$8022	TO.8T
					u	WJoF		90*205	'BN							
	029 | 9314		SocU Worfer, cifcal II	0701/07		u	$4,144	"ISW'		82429		I45ll	$2478	Uftf		*4,4M	$2s7b
					Mt	*4078	*20'36	$4067	82802		$4,760		$4056	*27.90	*4,962	fflF
					♦Ml	"MMi	$2903	$6,152	"HAli		KIM	$4oji.	U.M1	MUI	*i4M	mU*
	029 | 8315		SocM Wortar, CMcai 1	WJtf1^07		M	$301(J .	*44ta	UMI	J1US			|!ML	$3018			
			• - * /	t	«	p	■**		Mi	83080	$21.09	8X733	kztxs			$210®	830M	■:*2232/	*3982	
					♦Mi			$4, iU	HIM			$54.18	*44M	H4M	*4.574	$26.14
HX Appendix A Ymt 2
Effective July i, 2007
	Link Coda	Tm» Cod*	imtNMM	HhdM Ma	s 1 E P 8		1				2			3		4		5	
						6		7		a		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						16		17		18		49		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		zr		28		2$		30	
						IMO	MtiW*	IM		M^My	- Moh* '			ISMNy	■:-* MM*
	030	0383	PaychctooMU	07/01/07	M	UA44	$20.66	$4,735		*4,829	W.Hl	$4,927	bb.32	$5,025	J $28.8*
				• 4>-	ms	$5,125	t&M	$5,228	iSite	$6,332	iM.*4.	$5,439		$5,548	♦iiAT'
B					IMS	$5,658	*s£»	$5,772	*533y	*5,887	33383	$6,005	7'4*4^"	$6,125	sWiF
E					*»	$8,247	.***.90	$8,372	*3i.d2	$8,500	W-Se.	$8,830	Ta.ii'	$6,763	'h*.8r'
R			. -X ' ■		rl-x	$6J97	*39.64.	*7.036	*46x4	$7,177	.<4iil!	$7,320	14*07	$7,488	*42.91
K			*	<4* JZ e-., '%>	*’•	, *.	x		■MS	"tttie	Uw?				. ■■*				
E	iso		PtyetotogHI	W6i)W		$♦.178	H4.il		*244$	$4,347	019* >	$4,434		$4,523	
L			3-u< -v	vX r~7' ■	- ■- ■ •		Irtt	*4,613	iaO^	$4,705		$4,799		$4396	-Ki 14	$4,994	$2870
E				y \*4 i	”	IMS	$5,093	wan	$5,196	455.16:	$5299	TO	$5,405	$31.06	$5,513	
Y			M	\	f "	*«.;	IMS	$6,623	$32.32 ‘	$5,736	*3i.9>.	$6,851	$33.63	$5,968		$6,067	■$84^*1
					H-2<	$6,209	w	$6,333	i5O6	$6,459	W.4i.	$6,589	''WjW'	$6,720	■H8.fi"
			XX.- X?X-V.n		2MS	$6,855		$6,9S2	148‘IS		* < X				-* j
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
128
	Unk Code	TMa Coda	TH* Hama		8 T E P S	1		2		$		4		5	
						«		7		8		9		10	
						M		12		13		14		15	
				Data		16		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27		28		29		30	
						■mW	HW	MotW	' HatW	■vwr	MW		itiW	MoriW	MvW
8 A N F R A N C 1 8 C o	SAHFUHIKo														
	0M	5421	DMtfen,PD	oMHJM		H,tt4	iiz 39	44,46/	ma/						
	"658	5443"	DHCtenl	07&IM	U	54,646	"I44.W"	<4/738		$4,832		$4,928	$28.32	$5,025	Jli.88
			WWfHat	r»	m **H*»tfi	M	*m MMWMOM	'L	M	IM OO*	7	2M	ttt'OT		MB	$5,128	$28.46	$5230	i$n.O6	$5,335	$30&.	$5,441	<31.27	$5,551	131.46"
					IMI	$5,680	$32.53	$5,775	tslft	$5,890	$33^5	$6,008		$8,127	43521
					H	$8,264	$36.00								
											-				
	027 | 8038		Saeat)»tSpec,ChnLab.Sr			1®,560	unr	$6,090	J58.4i	$6,824	$34.44	te.&i	lw.01	<7,0&	$4030
						$7,242	$4i.ii	$7,386	$42.45	$7,534	$43.46.	$7,684	444.14'	$7,839	$45.06
						$7,995		$8,155	iiei?	$8,319	i47.ii	$8,484	Kir	*8,655	449,74
					H	$8,664	$50.W								
	027		Scientist SpeaaltaLCl Lab	07/01/07	*4	"56.446"	Iffft w	$6,363	$36.57	$6,494		$4,621	TMJS"	44.J85	S5J.4I -
			IM 91 < । I »i im		1-18	$6,888	*39.59	$7,024	$40.37	$7,165	$4l.l8 '	*7,308	ivisA	*7,454	4*2.84
					IMS	$7,604	$43.70	$7,755	$4.67	$7,912	$45.4?	*8.070	14438	$8,230	
					w	$8,418	<48.38.		*						
																	 '
	027	84*0	SdertisL QSnfcal Lab	bfiinn?		t5,44o	144.14	$6,059	$5W	$6,179	$35.61	<6.304	4M1S	$6,429	Hfl.U
			..	* ,	ft* i 8WaWi‘ . M,	’/	Utt	OTRNm MtOMWaaM j	,<*	r» x*r - ■	*	‘ W	MODE'		Mi	$6,556	447,68	$6,689	"BUT	$6,823	.$38.21	$6,968	<39.99	$7,097	4*0.76
					11-18	$7,240	Hi3T	$7,385	U4.44	$7,532	$4349	*7.682		$7,835	145^3
					H	$8,016	$48.07.								
													. ,		- < $•
	627 1 tew		Cytotochnotoghrt. Senior	|	WWbi	M	13347	$36.33	$6271	'TOW	$6,396	$46,/$	*8.525	$37.50	$6,654	ma*
			IM 91 • 1 hl im		MB	$8,788	$39.01.	$6,922	$39.76	$7,061	6*056	$7,202	444.44	$7,346	
					1M»	$7,492	**iar	$7,842	■M44	$7,795	$4*60	$7,952	445.70	$8,110	44UT
					1t	$8,295	$47.et								
															
	627 | 8055		Cytotochnotogtet	|		%|	ti^O	$32.07	$5,882	10	$5,805		$5,921	$3403	$6,040	HW.R
			Utt	MQcm ..	Utt * MrtW* .. MttWMinl"	Ai	, *■ tMCMI	'	'ST*	0MVM ■		Mi	$8,161	$35.41	$6,283	■Il	$8,408	$36^1	$8,537	Kzsri	*6.689	$38.33
						$6,802	$39,00	*8,937	m.i7	$7,077	$40.67	*7,218	"KiJi"	$7,360	$42.30
						$7,531	$43.28								
											**		- T		
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
	Unk Cod*	Title Cod*	TMtoNam*	Effective Mo	6 T E P S		1			2			5			4		5	
						«		7		9		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						16		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27		28		29 .		30	
						***			’ Hm*		MMTW			IMtv	
8 A M F H A N C 1 s c 0	oz?	0966	SdenMCto U^Per Otem	07471/07	1	*8,536	*4906				——u				
			n |4«	ttVffft Mmw . -j =L ■••’,T _»w»	/ awtm .. M - / M IMC* -	\ W*	-0WW1											r		
							-i				'	'■ **^. r				
															
													J * ■' '		+
			dytotectmoloeM. Par oiam	( 0^/01/07		A	U.ise	= UI .46.								
			e*ie*w*»» • 1	■ imo" ^wou» MMI«I *•» ■	. WO ' WIW ' VMACAW>*tv4 <-	1,1 v*4	* '■. t»ce ?■-■’"	v4.-	'wnw.				f	, v								?.
															s- ■
							*•						•?		
							4- ‘								j.,	,
	027 1 9202		friyslctan Asattfent, Senior	j briwbr		M	*8,089	”<jrw	M.24O"	U7.<n	*8.415		*8.583	U&.33	*4,75*	*4613'
			U H IU yd «• ‘ 3$ ”1S il 1 < * Ml		•■ft	*8,930	MTS	*9,109	*62.3	*9.292	153.40	*9.480	w	*9,669	'wr
						*9,862		*10,059	*57.81	$101261	*5&97	*10,464	UCTL	*10,675	*81.38
					YO	*10.917	*62.74								
													A		>7<
	027 I 9203		Physlcam Asst	J 07*W7		M	*7,353		77.4**	' *43.16.	i/M	U3.iM	It1,Mi	w	*7,959	
			MW>e*>«-	'-£/'■'/	’ K» ... ami®’ •UffWWWt '	* tut ? OW1A> MMMiANM f . * ; 4re	m - ,* OMSK t 'v/'a .	m .	m		M»	*8,117	*46.65	$8^81	*47.59	*8,448	**iu	*8.615	Ufiii	*8.787	*50.60
					1MI	*8.963	*siii.	*9,142	. *82.^4	*8.325		“S.511	.iAs*-	*9,701	
					H	*9,923	*57.03						*		?■'’ * J '
															L'
	027 | 9204		PhyafcfenAMbtant, Perbtem	| im01/07			iio,Ml	*8*49								.	2
			HI !*’ r ' * ; 5. *4 SI Irll										r		
							-J	in.						,>	4*1		**/
															. T	ff-
							...'L.....* C-T- -				J, '	- . ' K		-		
	in i 028 J 9246 028 f 9247 |		PtwmecM, Sr ■	,	| 07/01517 ■hemacbt, StaWll ’ — - - ( tmtftjjr		M	*10,219		*1(1,463	W.DU		LidhioJ	*lfi845	962-13.:	AA4	Esas®*
															
									-r.y-y..						
	Jswoas^i*to.oo " okw pAi>.	«■	■■■■■::						►		._ _=ii		. 1II		■Y”! <v" ■		—i- —‘-“-11
															•j:		 ;-'i
															
							... ■- ‘		1 j. -						t
HX Appendix A Year 2
BTncttve July 1,2007
	Link Cod*	TM* Cod*	Title Mme	Effective Cote	« T E P 8		1			2			s			4		5	
						a		7		•		•		10	
						"	11		12		13		14		15	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						21		a		23		24		25	
						28		27		28		29		30	
						MW		■MMy				MW		MMMy	H—
A N F R A N C 1 C 0			f4*hmcM^ Stsff 1	tnJMr	w	tfijftio	' $56.38	$10,006	'CTR1	$10,219	*88.73				
			„ - Udo	wr !»«•*<	s O«W mtcd.Mknk	. '- m	m J D^M * v'	, $*	' *												
															
															
											■»		•		
	"R4 | mJA"		PtWmoeM, Per Dtom	6W01W		"*12.658	$89.30						. -		
			n j ••15 Oil				4	a i								*■ -
												1"			
															
									dI ■ 4.	?				*		
	029	9285	Couneeior, Genetic UI	| WOW		M	$5,838		$5,854		*8,073		$6,194		$6,318	Wil
			X	4	,	f	i , >- ' -	. A- -,		M«	18,443	SB	$6,572	. *5fT7	$6,704	*38.53	$6,830	1S.M	$8,976	$4d4»-
					IWI	$7,115		*7,258	*4fti	$7,404		$7,552	*4345 .	*7,701	•WIT
					w	$7,888	UB54		■p <•						■ '
	oaF	9287	Counntor, Genetic II	0?«W7		$5,559		*5,6*9	«3*Jb*	&Vb4	TS33F	*5,8*9	twM' '	$8,oii	1541*
			7 y*V $ 1 a. '« >’ “ 'Ll*, '? * < *v		** 11-1<	I			*8.261 $6,913	*3ai* *S^	$6,388 $7,050	*t3&70 wa~	$6,515 $7,191	■fe7.n ■ UIJ*	$6,645 $7,334	E«-
					M	$7,515	*4119								41
	029 | 9288		Counutor, Genetic 1	WWW	M	feKF	$24.04	$5,154	U9W	*5,257	»W^1	$*,383		$5,469	RI JIT
			f» t	,’	♦'	«	♦. " V ." ’ *	*	-i	1 ”		•'*»	$5,577	"®r*'	*5,690	**£7b	$5,003	$333*	$5,919	*£4.02	$6,036	
						$8,158	***39	*6^81	: $38bl6	$8,407	■Tsnr	$6,534	W3B	$8,664	*3* 3d'
					ft	$8,831	w		14						
	029	"W	SwgWcr&.aHyill 1	o?WW	$_|			TUS	i*ri*	**.*49	1*1.**"	tlffia	"15ER	*5.M5	*33.18
			'"j v" • * $ i t g •> -' ■ p * . *t'. hi.			$5,888	t&*4	*6,006	*5TS’	*8,125	*»&2Q	I«t248	*36.*1	$8,374	TRIT
					1VW	$6,501	*&»	$6,631	«&'ii	$6,782	W	$6,897	4W14	$7,037	
					1MI	$7,178	*44-26	*7,320	*42&7	$7,466	$42.91	$7,616	TSt?'	$7,769	W.88
					n-a	$7,924	$45.54	$6,084	$«M6	*8,187					
	W* I *314		SotffWcrker.'fiHnSail	" 1	Tmoror	14	$4,(W	*j*,4*	*5,056	$29*6	MV	$2&.*i	USo		U.iB	
			WMMUntal'	w	nt “*»!** '	■ , vit " *	■ » •**’**<* = . \ . ? '_•		M»	$5,472	$$1.45	*5,580		$5,693	-*3r?r	$5308		$5,923	T54.0T
						$8,041	• fecw	**,161		$6,285	Wilf’	*6,410	<j*«4	*8.530	**X5*
						$6,868	*£■32	*6,802	*&6*	$8,937	*30.87	*7,077	*4d.6f	$7,219	*4141'
					um	"F^r	w	r.sid		tKar	' 13,111				
	| M4S		SotBWorUr.UnCTI	1	■wror	14			$4,794	$27.95	$4^89		*43W		$b,6A*	.32923
			-		m	*8,iftfi	Wi2	<*4*<	**i*i	*8; *98	*S1W	**£»	TH<R	*8,639	'"is.xr
HX Appondix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
c
022
9310
IMbNmm
EHWttm
M
T
-T 11 17
27
Soctel Woriarll, CMMiPD
ta> | MjlTSmfakAwXi
tai i ma
ba i aa
Ui I MtH
sa rssa
tMQ
07/01/07
j W
d'
sajTOjrjMoBiiriGit-~ MObMI ,-	• . IU» n.MOBM
TWE7
Wao
TOoo
TO3F $3,864
T
13
23
7
T 10 16 20
30
feo37
tabs
^pYMT HOF
TOw
•tsar
~WT7T
TOST $4.454
$4,11^ 14gF
w:
aro'gisgin-
| 07/01/07

$4,423 $4,884 $6421 •TOW
$6,183 torr TOTT
aidLfeflpxMrr
TBtEIEF

TTOW
W,o6d i4,7l6 $6.129 $6.740 $6,361 tras
TOH" TOTT
W
•ng^r

$3,631 $4,011
tsar
TOT
TOST TOw
-Htsn "MTM
TOJF
$4.131"
•tsar
iasr
to
to
$4.612 $4,962 TO<g $5,973
$4,802 $5,06l
$6,610
Ssr sr-
$6,836 16343
TOST $5302

tasr
Sr.ti-
TOH~"
"TOff $4316
"TOT7
"HBBT
$6321 $6,964 ton
$4,900
$6,410
TOF TO*«
TSW ~HE3T ~WT
TSW
$6,183 TOzF
THM
$4,788 yt'o** $5836
fglM
w
tsnr
$6,073 TOST
>QbF $5,518
taa
3»0li TOT
$5ai<t
$8,194
tL
33234
tsar
wr
$5,096 Rein
7SOT
w ‘ ggr $31.79
w
TOio
TO47
"W
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
	Ur* Coda	IHa Coda	Uda Mane		s T E p 8		1			■ ' i			9			4		--I n	
						•		7			8			9		10	
						<1		12			13			14		15	
				Data		IS		17			18			19		20	
						21		22			23			24		25	
						26		27			28			19		30	
							itatr ■		MM		*M	Nwlr		■M	*-<F		MM*
s A N F R A N C I o c o		Mb	8r	070107	M	83,927	TEST	84,005	E1M		84.084	123.471		84,186	H5.U	34,240	M149
					Ml	84,334	■ Ii411	84,421	328.41		84,510	126.45'		84.601	<20 Z»	84X93	"HUT
					1MI	84,787	<2/51	84,882	MoM		84,980	328.62		<5,079	829.19	86,182	MA.tA
					W	<AM4	"IMH"										
	029 | 9393		r oyuMiwra	wr	M	HJM	HUH		H1W			HUB			|1U9	83.430	319J1
			Illi IH ■ ‘88 ■’ll		Ml	83,497	820.10	83X60	HKH		83,838	EA64		83,711	■tar'	83,774	HIM
																	
									*								
																	
	030 ] 0383		PayohologbtU	J CW		M	U.MJ	19447	MM1	B4M		U,iM	MUI		<8,344	MU7	MMB	M^Ao
			l' ’ '	’	‘ 0 , ’		Ml	86X54	JW14	80,715	"BUB"		86,540	‘Hji		88,986	W'<T	87,127*	840X6
					1M1	87X70	141.71	87,414	|«U4		37,562	I43.M.		87,715	IM14	37,808	MAS'
						MHJ	|4Ud		#	J						*		
	6M | oiU		1	| 0701 KIT		M	14411		85,526	"1	snr	MAM				MKU	Mett	H1H
			.	•	j	i* v	*	* *.		Ml	35.962	H4j1	80,102	1	i5.b7	38.224			88,348	SM.48	86.475	HYJH’
					tMI	86,606	■htr1	86,737	1	M.H	88471		36.44	87,009		87,148	Mils
					W	<7.iid	14io4										
	Ml	Mt	ThoMpm, Mudc	07451/67	M	wif	824.00	14M4	M&M		<4'454	826X8		W.54<5	HAM	MAM	Houli -
			NWIM|'	» *	K42 '	KL&	cww Ob&ft	«■	K		Ml	84,722	Eili	84.010	WX"		84,914	gw<		85,011		85,110	829187
					1MI	85311	MUM	85,317			86,424	ML17		86531	HI.N	85,843	»f.4J
					W	<5,786	MU!										
																	
	031 | 9486		YferBptat.'rtacraation II	1 a7k>1ffl7		M	14.716	827.07	14,164	H7.A1		I4.1H	828.10:		UW	IM.H	U.MA	yak an
			;	■	-iT 1	'		Ml	<5,190	"WKM"	85,302	MKW		85,410			36.518	"BTlr	<5.627	832.34
					fMl	36,740	HiH	85663	M3.64		86,972			80,092		38X12	"tor
					H	36,301	MAM		1 .«						f >	. r J		
	6ii | MM		TharapM, Racraadon 1	. | 070107		M	kW		I4.M4			I44st	"urai		BUM	'djM'	<4AM	
					Ml	14,725	827.14	84,810	827.68		14.014			86.011	ia.8o	86,110	mA/
					1MI	“fa>11	MAM.	86617	BiLBT		15,424			85X31	M1.M	&641	Mi43
					W	*4*M	.833X6										
	Mi	MCT	RflttMtaV MJ	unnwr	1		“Brar					-					•a
	031	9471	Spaaoh, l^thoinnlit. Par Mm	070107	1	W304	,840,70		—*						■“ -s		* A	i. ■,
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
133
F
R A N C I
S c o
Unh Co*	IMo Co*	moi**		EHocdw Dota
031	9472	Spfefech, 8r		onoinr
			■	- -
031 | 9473		Ftalholo^toL i^Dooch		1 WjWJOT	
		„ ■, - * ”		
T5F	9474	AudWocFrt Sr		
				
Ml | Mil				AzAMAtf
				4	?
031	947B	AudHogM Per Dtem		onmMr
KI'	"W	TnorapW, HfeOwffu		07AM KT
		,v	- S ■		
T5T1	9491	ThvopM, Oooupa. ftr Mm 1	|		UffiFW
Ml I	9496	invvpM' OcoupBQOn* II	]		(JWMW
		11 1*1 1 ■' F		M—
	--			" fff ..
'Ml 1	MAA	IUwMOowMmoII	I		OTflilrtJZ
		- — -	—	-- w-
s T E P «		1			i		A			1				5			
	1		7		8		8		10		
	11		12		13		14		15		
	1a		1?		18		18		20		
	21		22		23		M		25		
	- — .		27		28		28		30		
	(tad*		MffRt	<m»V		■			MW	Hott*	
M		"BHr	$6,346	836.47	$6,473	$3770^	$8,603	btI	$6,736	$38.71	
MB	<8^70		$7,007	<4(517	<7,146	^141>	$7289	Mite	$7,435	142.74	
IM*		*43.59	$7,736	U4.4A	$7*1	US3T	$8,049	WH	$8209	|41<4	
	IMfti	14124								J; —, 4	
M	$5,759	154.16	te.S7?	AMT?	M.4M	TBTff"	HIM	MA.15	$6236	HA44	
	$6J61	AteU	$6,487		<6.617	mu-	$6,749	feejfft	$1486	iKir	
11-1*	17,023	WUA	$7,164	141.17	$7,308	$42.00’	$7,454	14144	$7,602	.14144?	
«	<7,>78	AuS						'3			
	$5,702	832.77	IS.&17	$38.43	$5,932	1UM	$6,052	$34.74	$4,1^2	$3Cl4?	
M*	$6295	'•"feW	$6,422	$36.91	$6*1		$6,682	4M.4A	$6,816	HflU’"	
tMi	Alesi	'AteJd	$7,091	444.W	<7.231	<4lU	$7,376	4419.	$7524	I4ii4	
K	$7,698	144J4		* i..!' .	,		A. '					
M	H3M	'SS6.VS'	» y		MM1	HAM	$6*0	"WOT	$5,610	-HUI"	
mb	H,hi		$5336	mu	"few	MW	$4*3	felAT	$8,194	IfeW	
11-W	$6,318	mai	$6,443	.UM	$6*2	te/.W	$8,704	838*	$6,838	Iteao	
w	ttjbta	UU4								- • •--	
1	H.MA	W?Jo									
M	I4.AA6	w	MKT		$5,182	■TSW	HIM	HUJ	$6,401	$31 ui	
Mi	$M11		$5,620	Mite	$6,733	WB'	<8,846	44143	$6,966	I	
1MB	Mote	tUM	$6706	IM'te	<6,330	feife	$6,457	fe7.1l	$6*8		i7.te’
M	41741	4BCT'									
1	WBT	148.78									
M	$5/491	fel-fiB	MAM		$5,714	13914	$5*9		$5,944		3416
MB	$8,064	8MJ6	$6,186		$8308		$8,435	WH	$6*3		3772
IM*	$6.te6	.teiitrr	feteO	Wld	M966	W.M	$7.10*	Wte	$7247		mar
XM1	87.39? $8,161										T-T-. L. I	
M	$5/491	THIJS'	MAM		IftVU	ate*	$5,829	HUA	$6,944	$34,16-	
Mi	$6,064	SM£tl	ta,iH	‘Mite.	$8308	"33W	<6336	<36.94	$6*3	$37.72	
1M»	pmM		SLB30	Wifi	t&ote	$4003	fe464	febfe	$7247	'UIjBF	
«	it.m							v	-		’ i *	
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
Lkft Co*	n* Co*	TMoMmo	a*	B T e p a				5					5				3				!		
					•		7			8		9		10	
					ii		12			13		14		15	
					16		17			18		19		20	
					21		22			23		to		29	
					2B		27			it			29		30	
						HMM*		*H*dy		*	’ Ms*		Mm*	**Mr	NMB*
032	son	f•tJwwlogU, Uuclw LU, fir	SINK!	M	W6W	$40.87	$7,219	■ 641.49		<7,364	I43.H	06	mu"	<7,859	IU.M
		MMMfaMl	GMO MMWWM	k MJD	WIW MMM			<7^14	I44A1	<7,9*	MAio.		<8,129	M1H	<8£91	l4>Al	$8,468	<4841
					VMZT	MSU'	$8,797	<5056		<8,931	MIAS				
													*•		
								1-							
6x5 | 6aM		TjrJinnVn1 ; tL -* 11--U-1--	" 1 icuMWPpm, nuM? rmokx*	WMM	♦4	M.4M		“16,Mi		mi	$6,896	HIM	MAM	93^^^ J	<6,985	IMAI
		II |‘I l.»l! Ill			<7,104		<7,247		41.66	<7,392	W1A	<7,541		<7,691	' 14435'
				IW	$7,844	Uato'	<8,119		M.M		'v				•«.-
															
						*									(	'T
032 | 8006		TMChndOQMJtad Mod, TtainM	MAW	1	W.4li	r $34.01									
		III H<l i linn				>					’ $■ *< ‘ >		*•		1	v:
															
																	
															
oH | MM		TocAnofeakNucModlSr.FwU	1	MUM	1	*£22	TEST									
		IUI 9 j'».l 111 Illi											’ •? * ,		
															
															
													• > 1		
iM ! MM		M_ n ■ ii  	—i bnyvKnc* rwpiBi kmowi	।	MUM	M	U,4i>'		MA4A	WAS		MAM	HU?	MAM	$39.14	<6£46	
				frtt	$7,065	f46.Ti“	$7.2$8	BUST		<7,371	$42.36	t/^17	MAM	<7,686	
				1M>	<7,821	MAM	<7,976	|4ii4		<8,136	wr	$8,298	WAS	<8,466	Hill
				W	MAM	146.77									A.'
106 | 9241		HptiaU, k»pU Aad1, Ami	I 07/01/67		M	<5,578	HIM	M,AbS	W.W"		MAM	-HIM	U.M-1	'<34.03	M.BM	■ <34,70
		! r “ J * *“			M.100	Ha4<J	$8£83	M6.11		<8,408	Mito	$6,535	' WAF'.'	to.866	tos-SI
					*.800	hud	$8,936	H4.M		<7.075	<«MB	<7£16	<41.41	<7,362	
				H		W5J									
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007

M8 I MM
""' BMW
bwalm I, WtSCF

TWW
m । tun
] ottoiot
077 J 8938
MMW
eamtt
rwsr
fldanartSpvcHfetfeiLjr
MMCT ;
tat i«%'
ajuuahuur
$7,327
ari mm
MpUff -
simiaahujwBeii
ITfflCTBF
Tgrrag1
Ms*aaet_x
$6,012 TOTS'
$6.485
$8,034
TW TOTT TORT $7,301 $8.061
tat i mm



IWJWW
fftMM
rmsr
	1		2	' i	4 n- »
6	7	$	8	|	10
	U	13	14	J	15
16	17	18	18	|	20
M	22	23	34	|	29
2$	27	28	20	$0
mw 1	■■oe 1 M	MW I M	
'fe',515
TORT Ksr
$3>44
s Tarr
EE $5.10T TOTT $7,447 $5j*22
w
test
W isjbo TOTF $7 JOB $8.387
"BHF
$3046 '
-MOT-
TEST'
•prg~
$4,896 $6,406 $?^17 $7,748 K664
W1F ww
*_£_________
$4,996 $6Jl4 $7,1 M
$7,903
$8,724
T3T8T
WF w
$6,132 t6,77<r $7,475
TB3F ~MOT
TEE
TOTT KS56 $7,825
w -IftM TBg
86,3TB
$7,044
$7,778
w
$8,808 $7.184
$£$33
dffl.41
$6,578 T£i54 Jejss
WBT tffir "MOT'
$6,278 TOTT
m
1OTF
9TJ0T0
TOw Kra Tr^iT
WU T383F -MbzJ
$6,663 T72F
"BCTT
~grs8
$8,686 TrW
W.17S TOT?
^pny

TSTTT ■w $4114
w
TEST
“Brar
■sot*
unr
$30.97-
TOW
■RRT
Wfa TOTT
w
w
TOTS'
WOf"
TOTT
■gnr w

Tgrg"
tee-

HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
	Link Coto	T#to Cotto	THoHen*	EftMdlw M»	s T E P 8		1				5			i		4		s	
						e		7		8		8		18	
						1i		li		h		14		18	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						‘ ""fl		ai		23		24		28	
						88		XT		28		29		30	
							: MW				MN^	iMr	Mow* ,	■MW	
							S ”	4<	<	'								
															
															
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
138
	Link Cote	Ute Cote	THtoNeno	Mt	s T e p 8	l ■		■	Y			5			4		6	
						6		7		8		9		19	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						20		27		28		29		30	
							Hurt	■art*		IM*	'• 'wav .	teat		Munster	r Hwe* -
D A V 1 s	MA	9248	hwidkm, dwt i	(molitf		i»,i^	THTF	89.319	TB3T	88,506	H4M	$9,695	IWF	$9,890	SW-84
			iMrteMMt «	',{■. e«	bww /	.?	/	4UM'	«0W0	3 ■aittew^Mt ,	' «M>‘r j- MW mm; > -T ’ ■	t r	% ,	w* 4	w*		«4	810,087	"uysr	310,289	,i$U*		■%		t . ■		4 A--
							.k j		x	S		>		'-" A#		
															* / .'**
									t *-		*’. .*		*K *		
	"te | MM		Ptermecata, Perblm	WMM	1	$11,435	w		- *,1		■ ' , y				0	V "
			SMUW«ew*«	\	. W-W* f ,/s	■< ,*mb' '■ »j«w t MOItMM ■ **- i 7 iiw,^ MW .. tX&C <_'■■'"iOMM												>V
							- 1 . >*?•*		r		zi	■-		7 r" ri, ;		t a 7*
							* £t !)	8		► -		- i1 'C.x'h		’ £*«■ .		'> 7
							>	s		jf * T|>r’ 4J		*Lis f				'z
	tad | 9286		CounMkr, Genetic III		M	84,947	s	U.M3	fMMl"	85,147		$5750	teir	$5,356	tert
			* ■	-*■ ’ iv ?*’	1 7 : ,r*t'• •!-** kX *’s<**, ’ ' *		M»	85.462		$6,571		88,883	ftae	$5,796	feaii-	$5,913	. $3346
						86,031	;"83*M;	38,151		SA274	IMW	$6,400		$6,52$	-887^4:-
	ilZ9 | 0287		Cbwwofcr, SmfcH	O7>oiA>7	M	$4,488	T®®F	W.5&	'326.3^'	$4,87$	■	' 14.773	•ftS-	$4,&5“	’S3T
			1	,.. \	. r £*A V	>■?/*"			$4,968		86,085	teiv	85,186		$5770	‘fe'	$5,375	Kfr
					1M<	$5.4&	- -	$5,592	ww	85,704	IM75	$5,819	83^.44 ,	$5,935	tun
	t09 ] 9306		Soctai.Wwkw.Cth.Uceneed	|	mimKn	H	B.SF		te,i41		86,233		$8,368	1M.M	U4iB"	ItfJJ
			«m>bwfctj	।*UB	- wwo? tewe^ V*i	'^’7 - ■ tl : aw^j a; iwe^ MNgiww/'>; "7. . ,;’	' s.we«il M*1'/'?'-- : •	two^Powim"		Mt	38,614	ta.oi	86,748		$6,882	$3*£6	$7,019	'!te5T	$7,160	
					1W|	87.303	■ur	87.449	win	87,599	IW'	$7,750	WW"	$7,906	845.43
							/	'’‘•’a				. l" s,\		S*	-’			Fv.
							f<r	* 7		tit .				e	fc		- *"' X
	620 | 9307		Soctai Worker H	|	Q7)6tM	H	ti.448“	•Wtffl"	$5.5&	^31^3	35,667	ia^ip1	K.7&	$3372	$5,&S"	EWX> •
			MMMMB	o«*W weatwrT,	.’.*** . «••* , MOteMtew^	’*'*■ toca ■■	rt '' •“ „ i. tT« ”.- MOW! ’		Mt	38,013	CUM	86,134		36755	&*?	$6,381		$6,509	$37/41 ■
					imi	86.640	jiadfi	$6,772	tea	$6,908	teW	$7,045	tea>	$7,186	' WJJo '
							A -r. '	4 * ■								*tr* $
									Alt				*	1 X	’		■	, 'x- k. t-
	"2)29 | 9308		Socte Worker 1	]	amitor	K	i4,5&'		H&6	M6.61	|4,7ii	-teU	mi™		$4,9lF	
			whnttarn __	„■	x ifeWMgMr' T\ ‘ -"ft-t" «S»—w-T’oleiWF’ _ J 1 Jittp ■r,1 MJWCff 5Mn’ A, . s . V ■> ■ s WM . iwMW^'		Ml	S6.O11	"tea-	$5,110		$5,213	$2008	$5,317		$5/424	'^"
					iHa	86333	>31.80	$5,643	-3M.4i	$6,758	■ $33ii8r	$6,871	W*'	$5,969	
									4						
							- ■? ,				'4				
HX ApptndlxA Y»ar2
Effective July 1,2007
139
	Unk Coda	TTtto Coda	IWoMmn	BHtotNa Dato	0 T e p s	1			5				3				7				!		
						4		7		8		0		10	
						11		12		13		14		13	
						10		17		18		10		20	
						H		22		23		24		28	
						»		27		»		20		30	
							. HwV		Mt				MwH	*M0B	,**>w _
D A V 1 s	ora	MOO	SOTUcrU.WBcnr"		4WMJW	1	"WU*									
			MHHNftl	tut t . OWWF1 VMVMpt!"	“	* BUB . 		A Mt	r '	M 1 WVW						'	''	1 Vs				. st: ,		
									*		, ”» 4*				z	a
															•.*
															
	444 | 6316		3odJW<xl<ar,an.«bcanaad	owwr	1	*7,74*	*4151				. SI' ■				n	/
			NUMB- ,	M /J WWW taMoiMtf* '	/ ' tui ‘ mmm ;• MM*«NW ,	tUt * WW bM	t.. r	SUI, ' • MOW								'■j ■**■ ■		X' .'		- ti .
															
													- ••*♦■		i ■=. r .
											»■*.				_,j
	644 | 4556		Caaa Manaoar, Comm Sarvkaa	tmmiw	M	"55361	*56,15	*3,<st6	320JU	*3,645		*3,71*		*3766	
			:y>.,; O;T£\. < V/		M-t>	33365 (4^M	&H. TRE7	*5,043 "P3E"	*SE	*4,021 "RET	bHI	*4,101 *4,527		*4,183 14EF	RilLJI ft—LU
	644 | 4551		COM Manaoar, Conan Sara, Anat			55,182	11154	SA340	31 MB	33^11	31SJI3	w	iiiir	H44*	»?1±U
			. «	. r\ .	r rs'J - ■-' ■' “ *’■ •■■ \ . . _ , ''-1- .		Mt	$3,513 *3.878	blf* T®S7	W	• ^17*	*3,668 TW"	♦JIjM *3115	*3.720 14,Ht	8*1.43. -jaSr	**>64 T4JH"	BhiL.M 1W3
	on | «M6		CMd DeMnpmant Ataoc	07/01/07	M	843t6	TSTT1	44,463		*4.564	IHir	14,544'		14.73*	a?rfr»
			1 —	'< -. 'i.	~ ' v		1M<	34432 35435	w# fWM	*4,828 W41		texxh <0,5*1	W -»nr	*5,128 1*,662	Su* -BEST	8SJ30 147M"	
	on I	OW2	Payohometrtat 8r	|	TOT	M	*3,557	mW’	triu		*3,475		^.*45	^KB?	83,612	E. AhJ
			UH IH f Uli		Ml	33,885	*21.18	83.708		*5455	■B2ji	*3.910		15.W	Kimi
					TH*	34,068		34,150	HMB	34,233	4H3T	11317	• 6«i'	34,464	KSHB
											“ *-		>.r . rf		
									£..>		f	- ar j/		«< * *4 -J-		
	444 | 4345		PtychonwliliL	|	TwoiBr	M	Oi	H7JW	*3,005	Jff!7T	33.156	318. T4	H2"5"	1 aw	93a«W	HU*
			MMa	>'* ■" am’r Mmsr 7’	W®*— <mm	' ;	"■■■'■. ,.m		tMi	*3M0	w	*3,772	bi JF	33340	tail}	*3J25	"HW.W W8BF1	MAMV 84,004	“ «£WJM' o
											- ”»■> ”				* s
									' J '-1 a		-2. Am»	>		’ ’ “» .		
	&M I 4545		PaacfebfeiU	|	TfflWBF		8H716		38M0	WJF	*3*1*	I42L4K"	~*7.127	Wt	1757*	-*41,76
			7" ■—'~T ' "*		Mt tMt	*7>tl* M.1M	147J*	tf!*4 "W3E"	M47 "WRT	*7.71* "Wir		*7470	I4U* UE5T	*8,027	*4U3
	030 f 0384		hycMogUf	1 UTiWW			HIM		fiizr	IMW	ta.363	1 V"	*04401/	*57JJ1	"HU*	
					Ml IMt	*5.743		H*M -rrsr	w	*7l.O14 **>4J	*44ir	-W-	*41.4*^ TOT	irair nun-	i*4.*4 UCTT
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1.2007
	Link Coda	TBta Co*	TMoNmm	M>	8 T E P 8		,			i		5		4		5	
										7		8		0		16	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						16		17		18		10		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27		28		29		30	
						Hwe*^		■MMy		Ma^f	*tae<f	Mfe**	Met*	NMMy	
D A V I 8	Biff	MM	Atfrtttbor 1	TBMJM	M	H2tn	$24.14	14284	"BJ.iS'	$4,369	T^IJi1	$4,456	$26.01	14,84^	326.U
					M*	$4,637	826.66.	84,720	■f»:i8	84X25	’MW5	84,921	Ifefe	$5,020	$2&M
					11-11	85,119	$29.42	1*222	$30.01	*5,328	UMI	li.432	■fHU-	U.542	fei.M
	Ml I UM		Spooch FotkiiooW. *r. fal	| 074)1307		1	fe,i4*	$52358								4- , '	’■
			**>«*l?	*/-■ 1 .. '*|Mi	, MIVW —	»Ut	. MfrMF , MWVMuMt	fl DO .	MOW ’ 0MM / * J 11	. !• ’	w												
															
															
											a ’ h.		i		J
	Mi | UiH		Spooch. PoihdooM, Par Dhm	mito	1	feoM	"TO"						-		
			UH TH ■ .*** . >* 4y												
							J	. >				' -L* _ ■<				
							’’ 1«				4' i.				L '■	*■
							. *■ J		’ *		■ J				
	Mi | *472		PathobgM, Speech, Sr	67«1A)Z	M	TMU		86X26	IUH	M4U		M,47(i	I37H	WR?	WJT
					Mt	*6,730	1*8.23	$6473	feejJA	87,010		$7,151	*41.10	$7204	-841-fe
					1M»	87,440	84176	T7.M8	PS Ji	*1,741	844.4o	I7M4	1U37	U.66*	MClfe
	Mi | 8473		PrtKtoQte^ SpMch		14	15,548		fe.*M	83243		HSiW	$5,888	HU4		IS4JT
			HH I!1 nit HI!		Mt	86.127	' 4M11-	86246	83641	$6,374	MM3	*6,501	$37X8	$6,631	WT
					IMt	$8,783	$38X7	86,600	.UEfe	F7.037	"|«U4	$7,176		$7,320	WAT
															
															
	Ml | 9474				1-4	$5,680		W.WJ	333.18	l£MS		$6,006	334X2	MIM	
					Mt	$6248	feMI	$8474	'13835	88X02	*3717	$8,631	$38.11	$6,763	BBT
					IM»	86,888	*3846	*1.638	ww	*1,17*	■ 1411*	$7,322	"tew	*1,488	*42.6*
	Ml | 0475		AuSotoptet	1 i)7/01X>7		M	14.71 't	■Sil	lUii	MW	*4,W		IS.AM	BUTT,	W,lM	TH3T
					Mt	*5208	££**	*6,312	fiS	$5,416	fei.14	*5,526	"cor	*8,638	1*140
					OMI	85,748	4MJM	U*64		fejti	'-1*411	fe,lM	WJ	*4124	8M.I7
	031 [ 0486		Viwaptet. qommOo* Ii	f iytKnivr		M	fe.11*	wjs			XO3B3	BW	Wife"	837X0'	oloio	“TOST
			Hl tHI ; H r " ' !•' ' ? J ' " ' hit I.HI		Mi	$6,751	$38.ib	86287	irife-	*7X24	*4ol>	$7,166.		$7X08	
					1M|	$7,454	*42X4-	fe,M4	W	$7,756	*44J<	$7,012	Wj47	$8,068	w
															■' '..a:
													■ -		
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July i, 2007
							1		I			!			—		!		
					s		I		7		6			10	
	LM Cffrit	PUa God*		“E*	T	""1	1		2		3		4	15	
			Pda Maw		E		6		7		8		9	20	
					P		W 		;	2	23		24		25	
					8		B	5	7	2	B	2	9	3	0
						■ma*	HM*.	“■—V	NMt ,	■mW		IM*	tSxt		Hmr*
	031	MM	Panplu, dooeaUonal 1	trnm/A	M	I6.SN	$31.95	66,671	632.S9	55,784		55,900	WI9f	T8,W	
			?»«?*** MwWwi’," ",	' - ’? ■ IM		Ml	58,139		66PI1	^535"	66,386	.tsa.w	58.515	^7^4r	66,643	
				'OM>HOT	«-M	68,777	Ci/iW	68,013	*39.73 ‘	67,050	640.52	57,191	541.33 '	$7,336	WJ4
				d^MOWFj;			- <>-	. V '				H,	-i		-		*.. T. ,|
			Mtr'4* ■■ * il J	r.CW			?fi" ■ ■*’/		- r ,						3 >b
	Mi I Moo		fharapM, bocupa, he Dim	1	MAJ17o7	1	66,006	1 W.fil"		f				; ^fc-F * ”		‘ . </
			MMilm,	• r	w -	; oww^'			rt-		Z’,		4 i. '		1” A ~		J , < k j 4? „
			MHWieh	*Mi .< ****«*»“	iV’*- *?• *.	(t*w*			. \ . ,- P		V'#- *		V,				V
				^wiaae ;i					<5<s '*'*•		x	-*\				*<T*
			OMM'l	r. <( ’	v.-tit ■‘J*	*'’■!■ *»					5 a!m >t		'v;’	k ’		:'±.' rt.		
	032 |	9003	factmciogktl4uclearluM^r	|	tJf^ilSF	>4	56399	«1WIW<	|7,6&	Mia>	67.179	<641.2*-	57.322	542^8.	~l7,488	• MScJK**
			aejpew*^		Ml	67.616	<$43.T8<	67,771		67.926	*4*4* •	68.084	548.48	$8446	rl4?4*
					11-U	66,411	i4?s4	68,560	<i»3r	68.750	■IO	58,926	*8140	69.1M	SEE;
D			smW^aS&lss				jsfc		'*■ *' .,4-*		.W ■		x /•**■•■»; 1		
A							-^sa '-v		> % '5- j -						
V	332 | MM		TedwxA^Nudaar Madina	wow	$4	66,062	■JM5J	1HXM		ieiaf	638.19	*6,4iJ		66,551	w?r
1 8			**Stf		Ml 11-tt	66,683 67,378		68,816 67,526	4*ur TO!	66,063 67.877	feW>M -p^r	67,092 67430	war	$7433 57,967	•64147 Wm'
							Ijyj *«o „ A .		/				Ml		. "^4.^
				/00MNrL					< 9 ’ J 5'		2	<•;!-•■,		-<r		jVa, ’’ Il
	(tti | MM		TechnoloahlNucUpd^3WU | tiHWifl		1	67,773	'.WjST		-k4 r7		< -fc*				Z	W
											t? v^-±v,.		-irt		
							**4								
			itjbOS	jS.ttt&is:							.,*^4				
									«5£issz>		'S-iSSi. T				**4**^,l**&l
			FtiyiMuttL, rruopiiai Kttuiauun	■	v/iwi/vZ ‘	34	eu.uut	j1 Tr~—ir	W^jVITV				-			
			A'^-: ji'&Ji 7?^^^"^SST^5>r“1s.'r-‘.,	r\2* /<£ £;K??fh??r	tx» I	66,163 M.6M	jvm W.h-	6^287 "WHT	E.^2ja	65.412 t»jM	'63646 ,W.'M	66,541 *7^21	.53749 w	58,671 tt.SM	
	106 | 9241		TOgMCMRi nWfWI FwO* Afltt	|	oixrlfcT	u	54,663			19X27	«MF	IMJS.	U,i38"	528.37	65,03(4	^2^<M r
			'.^ U*	.%■*•-	/'	4	*" **			WJM		i52&	Mu'	fc.Wi		65,451	63143	ksST	
			**' '	sPf1 “9* '	>	1MI j	66,671	S.8T	65,784	-	65,000	W5JT-	66.019	'fUW	$6,139	
															
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
142
	Unk Co* -	TWO Co*	TWO Mono	Bfcctfw Dato	8 T E P 8		1				3				!			4		5	
						i		7		B		9		10	
						ii		12		13		14		15	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						>1		22		23		34		25	
						" ’	28		27		28		29		30	
							I «•»	McwMy	Hcerty			1 HW*		HMMy	Ht*n *
L O 8 A N G E L E 8															
	Hl		DWHsn,PB	utwjt	M	$5,429	$31.20	$6,334	>3640				> • r		
			bMttonl	toMkrt	44	U$M	li4.u	$4,282	'HUi'	>4,367		>4.454	'TS.SS"	>4,545	$28. ii
			* , f ,'	'	i -	j		Ml	>4,635	<26.64	<4,728		>4,822	lirN	>4,919		>5,016	$26.83
					1MI	>5,ii>	155.41	$5220	B3"3d'	>5,324	IM.ed	>5,431	>3<2l	>5,53/	feT.Si
	027	8938	SdontXtSpoc.ClhLob.Sr	| 07/01W7		»•	0-2 yn„		3-5 yrs		M yrs		1M1 yn		12-14 ps	
			' ' ' •	‘~i .. V \ ,		)4	$5,899 [ 15180		>6,107 | >35.10		$6,314 i >36.29		>6,522 | $37.48		$6,729 | $38.67	
						15-17 yr»		18-20 yn		21-23 yn		24-28 yn		27+yn	
					t-M	>8,938		$7,143	: $4106	>7,350 | >44.24		$7,557	$43.43	$7,712	$44.32
	027 | 8939		Scientist SpedalM,CI Lab	07/01/07		0-2 ws..		3-6 yn		6-8 yn		9-11 yrs		12-14 yn	
			■MMBIOM* ' 1 ‘ ’	*	UJS* - MW ’ WMMNV4	MDWF MKVWettM * £ , '	M ■	M 3 cmcm x;	ow		14	>5,532 | $32.37		>5,829 | $33 .50-		$6,027 | 04,64		$6,225	135.78	>6,422	>36.91
					Exp	16-17 yn		18-20 yn		21-23 yr*		24-26 yn		27+yn	
					M»	>8,820	>38.06	>8,817	>3918	>7,015	>40.32-	>7,213	>41.45	>7,361	>42.30
															
	027 |	8940	Scientist, awcol Lab	07/01/07	EW	0-2 yn..		3-6 yrs		6-8 yrs		9-11 yn		12-14 yn	
			mi IM bl! Mi		14	>5,36*	$30.83	>5,562 | >31.91		>5.740	$32.99	$5,928	134.07	>8,116	.335.15
						15-17 yr*		18-20 yn		21-23 yn		24-26 yn		27* yn	
					Ml	>6,304	$36.23	$8,493	>37.32	>6,681	>35.40	>6,869	>39.48	$7,010	$40.29
															
	027 | 8954		CytotechnciogisL Senior	I 07/01/07		14	>5,913	>33.98	$6,029		>6,151	iii.aJ	$6,274	$38.08	$6,400	
			RMSM*« ■-■ SMS astWlQl	■	, •. MX»* Motor \	* * Itoi *	1		Ml	>8,527	■few1	>8,657	i38.i«	>6,791	->39.03	>6,927	t&ai	$7,064	>4o.to
					ti-n	$7,207	<41.42	>7,350	«42Jt4	17,498	>43.09	$7,647	>43.95	$7,797	1*4.8$
											'	7	-				
											’ 4*				
	027 | 8955		Cytotochootoaist	|	07/01/07	14	>5,$7d	IMM	$5,478	"33H8""	>5,587	"'Uf'H ■	>5,699		$5,81 i	1M4A
			f	Mrttnr SMWWMSM f	- M	■» . Ot»Caf .	4	.	. mW	MffUtf		Ml	>5,928	fR.tr	$6,047	$34.75	$6,168	>35.46.	$6,292	>38.16	>8,417	>36.88
					1MI	56,546	*37.92	>6,878	>3837	$6,810	'<30.14	$6,948	>39.96	$7,084	.MolH '
							■ <								• - •
											■ 2				
	"EJ | MAA		4cUntUt,flln LSJVrBGm	1 AWJlAW		M	>7,MA	WM		'«nr						
			WWf .+, ... HHVIW4	/ ?. m	'•*■$ s a»CM	. naw * .Motor						<						
															. » - >
									- -						
							- t *								
	027 | 8957		Sdenttst,CHn LstxApprentfce	J 07/01/07		*4	<3,784	' Jii .e'5		$22 06	U.&17		15^05	iii.M	$4,075	>23.4i
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1. 2007
	Unk Cod*	ra* Cod*	TRtoNm*	Btattv* (tat*	« T e p a	1		1		3			a				s		
						t		7		a		8		10	
								a		13		14		IS	
						u		V		18		16		20	
								“sr		23		24		28	
						»		V		28		29		30	
						■Mfr		MMW	Mds*		IM*		‘ IM	ttuiM	H—*
					M	14, iM	iziad	*4.239	124.38	^4,324	*24^3	*4,411	*28.38	*4,706	
144
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July i, 2007
145
	IMl Code	TWe Cotto	TWoNmim	Effective (tote	8 T E P 8	"T""		"■" ' i			5				4		5		
						1		7		8			9		10		
						H		12		1*			14		15		
						is		17		16			19		20		
						21		22'		23			24		25		
						»		27		28			29		30		
							1 H*“1»		Hqw^		**■*		M«<MV		MmMjt		HeMr
L O 8 A N G E L E 8	028	T44J	FtwnrwjU' PvDIwn	07«W7	1						1-						
			UH IM 7 A 4*. ' /l Hie i hi											*			ri’
																	. »•
																	
																	
	029 | 9285		CounMtor, GanoOc III	07/01/07	$4	SA234		*8,360	w	*8.487	*37.26		i6,6i4		**J4&		iss.n'
			-	-	•	4.,	, t'	<	*■		M«	*6.883	*39.66	*7,021	*40.35	*7.162	*41.16.		*7,305	*41. *8	*7,451		*42 82
					IMS	WfiOO	TO'	*7,752	*tksr	*7,907	*45.44		*8,0®	'W3F	*8,223		M728’
	029 I 9287		CounMtor, Ganetic II	07/01/07	1-6	*8,869	TS.M	*5,782	*33.23	*5,897	'iss'ss		ii,5T3		*6,135		*3828
			*	. <- L .•	•		Mt	56.25S	ias.fi>	*6,384	*3869	*6,511	*37.42		*8,642	*3*.i>	*8,774		*3893
					1*W	*6,910	*567i	*7.049	*4061	*7,190	*41.3i		*7,332	W1F	*7,477		
	U54 |		Couneekx. ienetta (	| 07/010?		14	*5,051	*&.O3	i5,15i	^2881	*5255			*5,3*1	*&.*{	*5,467		*5*
					MO	*5,577	*32.06	*5.688	13269	*5.801	*33.34		*5,918	*34.01	*6,036		*s4.M
					1MS	*6,158	155*8	*6.280		*6,407	iw.eJ		*8,534	■ *37.5**	*6,662		*3829
	029	62M	CounMtor, Genetk®, Per Dtem		1-a	'C,e&	13^.20	*8,334	^36.40								
	029	9313	Social Worker. CUnlcei ill	07/01/07	54	*5,537	'IS<M	*5.648	132.4	*5,781	*33.11		15,878	TBBJT	»5.6&4		
					Ml	*6,114	MH4	*6,236	*35.64	*6,361	'WLST		*6,488	*37.29	*6,617		*i*.M
	ins | 9314		Social Worker, dinted II		M	ii.Wa	TSIT	*5,194		"WAT	14.4		*5,404	*31.06	*5,512		**<**
			•V	’ •		MO	*5,622	»i?3i	*5,735	•TOi'	*5,850	fcitt		*5,966	W-fT	*8,087		Im’s*''
	I 4^15		SocM Worker, CUrfcai, I	otbhw	V4		*33.40	U.253		*4.343	iii.54		*4.^1		*4.524		im.m
			'“I * ! id- II Ijl		M	*4.614	*26.52	*4,705	*27.04					„L-			
																	
																	
							sCs.. K.										
	029 | 9316		Social Worker II. CflnicalPb	I	07/01/07		*5,610		*7,2^8	“UI.46								y
			iWl if x? I V * 1 ; -it V 111: ills						Sto—’t-	—				-=^T. ■.<•-"			
														H-.vnw w- ««			1 * •J-T
											f	'						
	0& | **17		CMd Devetopment Aaeoc. Sr.	| O7TOW7		f4	*4,813	*26.61	RT&J	■ww					*28113	MM*		
			„ L , .> J .. ' ■ * ' h ■		MO	*5,093	"Wy	*5,194	*2985	*5^98	*30.45		*5,404	*31.06	*5,612		*31.**
					1M1	**.*24	*42.32	*5,735	*32.96		*33.82		*5,***	*34'29	*6,067		*54.®'
HX Appendix A Yew 2
Effective July 1,2007
	Lrt Cod*	TWe Cod*	TWoNmim		S T E P 8	1		2		3		4		5	
						6		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		1*		15	
				Det*		W		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		27		28		29		30	
						MMNy	t$Maty '			MtmMy		itatMy		ttMMy	MfluHy
L 0 s A N 0 E L E 8	020	93*1	Sodat Wort A**od«i»	07/01/07	M	$3,710	$21.32	$3,785	$21.75	$3,859	$22.18	$3,836	$22.62	$4,016	$23.08
			III f«f >*u • li		Mt	$4,098	$2354	$4,178	$24.01	$4,261	$24.49	$4,347	$24.98	$4,434	$25.48
					tMt	$4,522	$2599	$4,613	$2651	$4,705	$27.6*	$4,799	$27 58	$4,895	$28.13
															
							. . 3								
	029 | 0342		Soctai Wort Anodato, Ant			Mi	Mur	"$i,4ST	ybir	$3,640		”$3,711	$21.33	$3,786	Isil.W!
			7 r MOQM SMMWF^jrt	„	' . m> .	«MMH m , .	'w DfrC* '	M	M1 '		Ml	$3,883		$3,939	$22.64	$4,018	'■$2i'M	$4,096	|23^'	$4,181	$24.03
					11-U	$4,265	$2451	$4,350	$55o6	$4,437	$28-60	$4,526	$2^.01	$4,616	$26.53
													- "		
															
	tab [ 9345		CMd Development Assoc	07/01/07		14,193	tub1	$4,277	H4M	$4,382	$25.67	”$4,449	J4M7	$4,538	$ie.d6
			’ V , s-	■ ' .4	'	' ■ J .		Mt	$4,630	$2661	$4,722	■eett	$4,816	$2768	$4,914	$28.24	$5,011	$28.$0
					11-U	$5,112	$2d.&	$5,213	$2$.W	$5,317	$3056	$5,424	$31.1^	$5,533	
	029 | 9352		CWIdUfe Specialist II	07/01/07		$4,6 ii	KMI	$4,705	Ji?.M	$4,799	w	^$4,805	$28.13	$4,994	JM.W
			.. - .		Mt	$5,093	$29.27	$5,194	$29 415	$5,298	$30.48	$5,404	$31.06	$5,512	$31.68
					11-U	$5,624	$3i,32	$5,736	$ii.W	$5,850	$33.62	$5,966	$i4.M	$8,087	14455"
	02^ | 6i45		£MdUfeSpeddStl	07/01/07	14	$4.19$	$24.10	$4,277		$4,^62	15CT7“	”$4,449	$25.57.	$4,538	$2606
					t'M	$4,630	$28.61	$4,722	.$27.14	$4,816	$27ia	$4,914	$$$^4"	$5,011	$28.60
					11-tt	$5,112	$29.$$	$5,213	'MST	$5,317	$30.56	$5,424	$41.1?	$5,533	*94 M
	029 |	9382	Psyctnmotfst. Sr	07/01/07	14	$3,710	U1.M	$3,78^	nvw	$3,654	$22.1$.	$3,938	$4414	$4,016	$23.08
			\	■	't	\	$		Mf	$4,096	$23.54	$4,178	$2401	$4,261	$24.49	$4,347	824.98	$4,434	$25.48
					11-U	$4,522	IJs.M	$4,613		$4,705		$4,799	$i7.te	$4,893	
	029 |	9393	Psycnomstrtst	07/0W7	H	$3,497	i&iir		Mjii	$3,840	$20»	13.711	$21.33	53,786	
			III »»n ••II		mb	$3,663	$22^6	$3,939	S22.W	$4,018	$2309	$4,098	$23,58	$4,181	$2403
					1M»	$4,265	$24.51	$4,350	$2500	$4,437	S25&	$4,526	"Wh	$4,614	$2852
															
							$								
		9383	Psychologist II	OTfflWF	M	$6,795	" tsras'"	te,9$i	19463	$7,070	Ta.sr	$7,211	I'linii"	4^,355	$4ii^
			( n's ■■' « « i;J t‘. > r 1 idi			97,503	$43.12	$7,863	$4iST	$7,806	$4486	$7,862	$46 76	$8,121	*46.$7
					1M»	$8^82	$47.60	$8,449	$48.58	$8,618	$49 53	$8,790		$8,963	$51.61
															
											■				— ...
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
Unk
ntto
TMoUbm
o
G E
E
TO
TOT
W
EflwthM
TT
U"
T IT IF
T
TT $8
10
10
1S 20
30
to । usr
to i
M'i | Ml
UriTTO ur~94U
TO | ttrt

•nwa
TWTO
KSXSSEHTSnCT vffyc^oiOQisi^ lip rwr [Jv0m
tiewpbtMSF
V^waptol, Phyifcal, Sp^cB^y*
luadiwe&ggsTO FWuiuuW, Opwdvtjr""'
WWW
| diMW?
ra cw«n .
"~ | WTO
TOTO
mowt
TOTO
Utt ruflwr - ff ' ?MC!47
mmiur
TEW $6,821 $7,531
UTO
>4328
UTO 10,058 17.682
UES’ UTO UTO
36.428
$7,096 UTO
UTO UTO <46.03
uur $7,238 $7,992
"BFJF UTO UTO
wbr 17383~ WJ48
UTO UTO
UTO
UTO
U.334
UTO
■Rift
IKff
T7.8OO
uro
UU7 $3863 >4.265
UTO >6,175 <611?
3&iri~
1M1[ >6,332
36.80^ UM
M» | frjOI n4.|~UW
uro UTO UTO
W UTO "i39.ld
UTO
i&.jg
"UTO •UTO
"UTO
1^,569 13,938 <4,350
U.706 ItUMG $6,955
&298
$8.457
w uur uro Ul222
UTO $2264 w
UTO >4.016
UTO
Izo.ai
TOT
$4.098

UTO W UTO
UTO $4,181 UTO
UTO
UTO UTO
“UTO
T3TO tool/
TOT
Mil
UTO
UTO
WF UTO
UW U424
$7,094
UTO
88.58g
UTO $7,506 UTO
“UTO "UTO UTO
UTO $8,563 VW
UTO UTO UTO
UTO <8.685
$7,378
■UTO "UTO UTO
UTO
$5.512
UTO
UM
UHF
fer.ae
>8,718
Mm
UTO
War"-'
UTO
UTO
UTO
UTO $7>48 uiur
UTO
UTO

UTO \.^,.
>40.18	$8,^31
UTO
UTO UTO
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
£
	Link Cod*	TIM GoM	TIMNma	EHbctha Ma	8 T E P 8		1				!			3		4		5	
						r ■ ■		V		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						18		17		18		19		20	
								22		23		24		25	
						2*		77		28		21		30	
						n«Mi*e	tarty	Mwta	tai*	MoMNy	tarty	MMMy	Heetr	taWy	tarty
L 0 8 A N G E L E 8	031	9*73	PathotopM. Speech	dWdi/o/	M	M.IU	TW	88.290	'BT	86.417	^38.88	$8,546	13 W	$8,876	$38.37
					Mt	$6,810	fwll"	86,948	IMk	$7,085	$40.72	$7,226	$41-53	*7,371	142*6
					tMi	itei*	>13.21	$7,668	$4407	$7,821	l44Jtf	$7,978	*4&*tL	$8,135	1Z8.H
	Ml I MW		AudtologM, dr	dWow	M	**,*41	WN	1*,W3	iiiM	M.MT	IM44	*t*17	"I48.M'	iz*5>	141.4*
					Mi	$7,301	141.06	87,445	$42 79	$7,595	14368	$7,746	*44&	$7,901	■TO.4I'
					tt*tl	$8,060	*41.11	$8,222	<17ii	$8,385	I4&I0	$8,554	I415T	18,721	IM.44
	M1	MH	AudWoght		M	w	*35.4*	te^M	|M.14	$6,417	IM.M	U.546	$3762	U.*76	
					«■«•	$6,810	Mui	$6,946	$39.92	$7,085	$40.72	$7,228	141W	*7,371	*42.36
					tMi	17.511	i43.il	87,568	$44.07	tf.621	144.M	17,978	146.M'	$8,136	144.71
	Ml | wad		Theraptet. Occupant Diem, II	|		M	88.143	1 il&H	89,048	$5200						
			••I* 11*1 1 1 8 ■ Id im												
															
															
															
	Ml | 9491		Therapist, Occupe, Per Diem 1	|		M	17,23/1	141.U	88,143	$46.80						
			un pi < g 1 1 •I-												
															
															
															
	Ml | 9498		TherapM. Oocupettonal II	| 07/01/07		14	*5.VM	IM.V*	$5,899	$33.90	$8,017	$34.58	U,l37	IMJT"	18,261	*35.98
			LI I* 5 5 3 ■ Id nn		Mt	$8,386	$36 70	$8^13	$37.43	$6,643	*38.18	*6.777	*3896	$8,911	$39.72
															
															
															
	031 | MW		TheraphtOccupetiorMI	| Wbvift		M	*si4i	Tao'.IS 1	15.420	Ulid1	15.537	nun	18,W	IM48		
			MWVMMe	MOUJ7 U00	MtHAT L	MM	0<AW 0»CM	f»	M												
															
															
															
	TES | MM		Technctoght, Nudaar Mad, Sr	| 07/01/07		M	t*,5M	' |M'.44	fr.odo	$40.23	tf.lM	I4I.M		$41.85	$7,428	141.4*1
			_	*2tt	BMUOT MMMtieR	~	Hit	■ MMBWMM	m	oww	' EM4W	|IUM	MOM4		4ti	$7,578	1 *43.54	87,727	*44.41	*7.882	148.30	$8,041	W3T	*6.201	W.1*"
					n-ii	88384	I4io7	$6,531	$49.63	$8,703	$5002	*8^677	141-02	$9,061	*5202
										X					—
															...J
6H
150
Effective July 1,2007
D
E
E R
3
Unk Coda	Tttto Code	TtttoHama	effsctho Date	8 T E P 8		r		2		J			1			5	
					8		7		8		0		10	
					11		12		13		iF		15	
					18		17		18		19		20	
					31		22		23		24		25	
					38		27		28		29		30	
					*•**				ana*	HMtr	■MnMy ] llM^			
rM-RUM														
02> I 8939		SdartWspecMatg Ud>		M	$4,888			ISaM	$5,084	$29.22	$5,185	$24.M	55.2M	$30.40
		»ww«»jiijjjt^p ft -y ,7‘ii •1 vat	*****, ■JiiSSSS^pM * "’ i ■- „ »o	wvwr « v	,	r,	<■■ X. eNMWWMtori ; ’	m		Mi	$5,396		$5,504	$31.63	$5,613	mST	$5,726	$32.01	$5,841	t&.87
				»M»	$5,968	ism"	$6,074	134.62	18,198	$35.62	$8,321	*30"	$6,448	$37.08.
						I - ft '								u.
						* . 7								
027 I 8940		Sdantfot ethical Lab	07/0W7	M	ii.655-		$4,063	iJJJJ	W.145	$23.82	U,i?8	"isrsr	$T,313	4W.74-
		,	|M7 U47 ’ wflMff MMOWafeM	M	■	-. EMCWr	«•	l*		t-t*	$4,400	'^29.	$4,486	Win'	$4,580	$26.32	$4,672		$4,766	$27.36
					$4,882	*$$7.94	$4,859	$28.50	$5,058	WT	$5,159	“eS.BT	$5,262	$3024
						■ ■«• ■								
						*C ' _				/				
028 | 924$		Pharmacist Sr	07/01/07	|_g	86,847	jsim	$6,983	vnnrr	?7J44'	14o44	$7,266		tZTi2	I4S.M
		y *	’ * 3 ’	*	,	r.-J.u.		Mi	$7,580	mW	$7,712	$44.32	$7,867	$46 21	$8,023	Kir	$8,183	$47.03
				1MI	$8,347	$47.97	$8,514	$48.93	$8,884	$49.91	$8,858	$50.91	$9,036	$61.93
					$9,217	t&Xr	$9,40l	154.03						
028	9248	Pharmacist Staff 1			W.335	^3i.4i	46.46?	W.U	^591	$37	$8,723	$36.64	i6.857	$39.41
				Mi	$6,995	$40.20	$7,134	mo'	$7,277	*4lif"	$7,423	$42.66	$7,571	$43.51
				11-11	$7,722	$44.38	$7^7?“	$4527	$8,035	$48.18	$8,195	$47.10	$8,359	$48.04
				1M7	$8,528	$49.00	$8,897	149.98						X 1
	0383	Psychologist (1	1(MMAW	1-fl	W.AW		$5,097	l&M"		535.15				
1^30	&!84	PsychotogW 1	itv61/oi	M	$3,707	"Wfr	W	.$28.62	14,557	$31.83	-			
tsi
O O HI — O Z>M																
s I		,8 i		s i		§ i		§ i		s i	5		8 §	n		
PI I • H if in,; hiH		IlHf PI I »iU mH		Hill H££		inn pit 18 £ 6 IHlj		nm pi| 1 Sf n £ £ mii		i i	mii pi‘ KU niij		■ ■	■ I-	CHMIffg	i.	TRtoNzn.	“jy*		
	-		J £		I X	i	n	i	S x	i:1				d T IBHd		
	1	1 1	S8R	! J	StC SS =	i i	s.«.«	4 i		998'H Wrt ZOtfEL		1	E	1 -St! !	18:	k • —
	I	J	18 8	1 <	SEE 3 8 8	i	s$«			EES CD C£ j		1 i	3 i			
			:«5 s'* §	I	$4,183 $4,526	i i	QOV V* izo'et ZOS'St		18S i a§	$4,072 $4,481 $4,9M				1 - y i	i 3	5 M M
		J	sEB sag		■ JEE 183	i ■	588	! i	?«$ £83	SEE 528						
		< <	588 «j b ® ! o £	i	IM ss§		E8.S »'■* ® S 2 ;3	< i	388	$4,153 $4,580 $5,053				I -st !	is;	। «ft M
1			EStfi 3 3!^		JEE i s 8	I		1	S£g	*BE						
			38g	t	;rr i s g J tn KS	1 I	?«» ixS	4 i	S$«	8CX KsS				-8S	18;	b • *
			is! S2fc		S3 9	1	s£g		SEE B88	ESS 8£X						
		1	388 5 Ta	i	S£« isl	<			SJS iiti	SIX "3 =				1 -81 !	IBi	io"
■ ‘		'5	m £38	' I	m		?2S		m csa	HXL J£&_ Zfi-Mt	■					
idtx A Year 2
July 1,2007
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
	Link Cod*	TO* Cod*	7«t*MMB*	EHactta DM*	s T E P 8	'■	1			2			5			4		5	
						1		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						16		17		18		18		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		27		28		29		30	
							NMy	MW*	MW	feW		few*	fetilf		
8 A N D 1 E G O	oar	H0	ScMMCkn LabAppreoifc*		1	83,076	"WW								
			mi pi tt 2 8 B * 4 S 8 13 S fi U												
															
															
															
	027 [ 8050		SchntM.CUnLob,Sp*cJV	07/OW7	1	85,813	133.41								
			III! ::h Id^												
															
															
															
	W! | 8997		Cytotechnotoofet, Sr, Per Diem	07/ftl»7	1	36.755	IMST								
			mi 93U Id mi												
															
															
															
	027 [ 9202		Physictan AMtetant, Serttof	j			56.605	HWi"			36,876	t66.*6'"	57,007	5*0.27	37.140	541.07
			mi Pi 1 8 S 9 Illi			37,289	3*189	87,433	842.72	87,561	343.57	87,733	$4Tm"'	37,886	*46.32
					im	88,0*2	8*6 22	38,202	347.14	56,366	$48.08	88.533	8*9 0*	38.703	$sd.ai
															
															
	6iV 1 9203		Ptytidan A**t	I 07/01/07		M	56,013	334 56	36,134	8&iB	56,25#	335.98	56,381	VW	58,806	
			mi Pi lit? Illi		MB	36,636	- 838.1*	$6,769	338 to	36,903	339.67	37.040	5*046	87.179	8*1.26
						17.322	$42.06	37.468	342.92	37,616	$43.77	37.767	3*4 64	87.922	
															
															
	028 r a246		Pfermocta. Sr	| 07/01/07		M	36,347	*47.97	U.512	5*8 92	iWF	$*6.89	58.853	350.88	89,029	3$4.$9
					MB	89,206	35292	89,391	88397	39,577	558X4	89.767	866.13	89,962	367 25
					1MB	$10,160	■feCW’	810362	W>15	*10.567	160 75 ’	Ii6,778	361 94	*10.902	■ wnr
	028 1 9347		PtwmacM, Staff li	I	07/01/67	M	38,256	I4J.4J	58.420		88,581*	WJiT			38.901	861-33
			m Pi * B 8 8 * x a h III!		MB	88.109	852.35	89.290	ISliie	89,474	354.46	89,662	856.53	$9,804	$56.83
					1MB	310,050	857 78	810,250	858.91	310.454	$60.06	810,861	*61.27	810.873	$82.4$
															
															
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
153
	Unk Coda	nth Cod*	Title Name	Effoctiw	8 T E P 8	1		i		*		4		6	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		1ST		IS	
						15		17		1$		19		20	
						21		22		"H		54		26	
						26		27		28		29		30	
							Hotfl*	IM*	Ijpwfr	Mart*	Hpwtr			IM*	1*01401
s A N D t E G 0	628		pkarmecW, Staff 1	or/om?	$4	$6,203	»38.®T'	$6,327	$38.36	$6,452	$37.08	$6,581	$37.82		w?
			NW t	U.H	MW WHMFWmM	' UTO	QMJWJ OfrC*	KK	OWW		Ml	16,846	$39.34	*8,961	(40. IF	$7,120	$40.92	$7,281	(41.73	$7,405	$42.66
					11-10	$7,553	$43.41	$7,703	*44.27	$7,856	$46.15	$8,013	$48.05	$8,173	*48.97
											*				
											-				* 1
	02S	9250	Pharmacist II, Per CMm	07/01/07	1	$9,808	1 IMif"								
			wwbwm	tun U7<	QUMKT WiOWW^WWl -	tt.TO	0MHJD7 Cfe-C*	2M	$M)VS0												
															
															
															
	029 ] 9285		Counselor, Genetic III	07/01/07	M	$4,235	($4 34	T.iiF	(445F	(4.464	$26.31	$4,491	$25.81	$4,580	$26.32
					M*	$4,870	$28 04	$4,762	$27,37	$4,858	(2i.9i	$4,952	$28 48	$5,051	$29.03
					14*18	$5,152	$29.61	$5255	“laaio	$5,359	■(SfiW	$5,465	*31.41	$5,573	“(0205 ‘
	029	9287	Counselor, Genetic II	07/91/07	1-8	$3,844	W.6F	*3,920	$22.53	$3,999	*22&	$4,079	$23.44	$4,160	liii.br
			-		M*	$4,244	$24 39	$4,329	$24.88	$4,414	*25.37	$4,501	■fei.0F	$4,590	$26.38
					ii-tl	*4,681	$36.90.	$4,773	W	$4,889	(Skid"	$4,968	"(Wsr	$5,065	
	029 | 9313		Social Worker, Aimcai III	] Ml/07		1-8	$5,159	'W	*5,282	$30.24	$5,366	$30.84	$5,472	151.48"	$5,582	
					HP	$5,893	$32.72	$5,806	$33.37	$5,921	“(mo*"	$8,040	(34.7I	$6,160	$35.40
					11-18	$6,281	$38.10	$6,407	(0682	$8,534	’.WW	$6,664	*38.30	$6,790	"WSS'
	029 I 9314		Soda) Worker, Cumcai II	07/91/07	14	$4,595	(44.4F	$4,688	$28.94	$4,782	$27.48	$4,877	$28.03	$4,975	$28.50
					*-1<	$5,074	$2910	$5,175	$29.74	$5,277	*30.33	$5,382	(00.93	$5,490	$31.55
					11*41	$5,599	|_Hnr	$5,711	(tt.iF	(5,824	$33.47	$5,940	($4.i4	(8,059	"(UW
	029 [ 9315		Soctei Worker, Clinical,!	07101(07	1*0	$3,748	teisF	*3.821	$21.60	$3,896	$22.40	$3,976	t&'st	$4,054	hi.ii'
			MMMRwdnt	Utt	‘mu •MKMMtft	tUO	sn0M» J	*1JB	UTCIXH		Ml	$4,134	$23.76	$4,216	. *24.23	$4,300	$24.71	$4,385		$4,472	. (25.ro
					11-«	$4,561	$28.21	~*4,651	$28.73	$4,743	$27,8	$4,837	,$27*>	$4,933	K8 35
					—				*	■					
	029		Social Worker II, Clinical PD	]	07/01/07	1										
			•NHWtwMff	v	. d . IW MSTBNVd ~	‘ ■’ ' '	U» ~ M4M>r ' Utt’	MOW 0n«	-t	m <	0»’W				-						■ -■		
													•u -			
															
									=-4				<r		
	029 ,	8392	PeydTometrist, Sr	|	07/01/97	M		(20.W	$3,584	iii.4*		$20.89	(4W0	$21 JI	(i,M	' 'iw.ft1'1
			;	V		Ml	*3,858	$22.16	$3,932	(22J80	$4,011	(23.05	$4,091	war	$4,173	(23$8i
					11-10	$4,256	"®ur	$4,341	(54.06"	(4.4S	*2(45	$4,517	$2596	$4,606	
HX Appendix A Year 2 Effective July 1,2007
■ft	r w i		r a 1		r ”—
		s				1	*	1	
					
	aa		«	L ■ «	a. ... 1	8
CM		1	«	1	L_ J?	1	1	“	]	ft
-	«»		1	#t	1		R
(4 h* uj ft. co					
			•pa		
■		I Tltteltam					
					
		el			
I Unk CoOe					
					
i	! s	<3 <6 «»	3 S		
I	SI	8 S	8 3		
I	CD	CO	3 S		
1	I a	i 3	o 3‘		
i	2 05	$ *•	|		
I	x U	§ 3	£ 3		
f	SI io w	e*	1 •J		
f	§ 3	g 3	SI		
i	«»	£»	1		
1	§ si	8 si	3		
	j	2	5		
	e i	Illi S 3 fl If! ini			
	1				
	!				
	§				
					
154
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
UI
	Link Coda	TW» Co*	TttteMwn*	EHVcttw DM*	8 T E P 8	1		2			s				1				8		
						8		7		4		9		<9	
						11		11		- is		14		14	
						18		17		18		19		4*	
						31		ia		23		M		29	
						38		27		28		29		to	
						n**	Matfr			■MO*	' MM*	MW'		MW	Mm* .
8 A N D I E G 0	030	64*3	Pwdwtookt II	07X51X17	■3	*8343	(33.58	*6,980	*3425	*0,078	*34.93	(8,146		*6,321	IO-
						<8,447	<37.06	44,176	4Jf.W	44.704	<34.64	*8,840	*w.ii	WflTB	*40.09
					E!!'l	itus	|4b.M	*7256	441 .M	W.4®"	UiSS-		Til si	<7.eai	44U4
	090 ] 8384		PsychotooM 1	tfmiKft	KI	<1W	lift. U"	41415	mJ r	UU1	(31.73	4s&1	“Ri.'S"	<5,742	4H66
					C3	*5,857	tiite	(5,973	isiit	*8.002	*36.01	*8,214	<35.71	(8,337	"ISUi'
					csn	46,412	isnr	*6.501		(6,722	(M.Bt	*8,856	'1W.44	(8,991	<40.18
	031 |		TharapM, Racrntton t		■3	4M44	(22.94		*2^40	44.1H	<4161	44iT	124.34	(4319	l&ti
						*4.404	&ll	*4,491	125.81	*4,580	<2<ja	(4670	"ital*	*4,762	itrif
					£23	*4.856	4W.M	<4>4	<jS4F	ts,tei	4MM	44.114	429l44	9&35i	*3021
	031 | 9472		PatholoaM, Spwcli, Sr	MW	K3	UM6	(28.15	<4,441	444.4*	i4,<33“	‘iwar	44&f	"WJ4	44.U4	
					Ml	(5.020	jiffsr	(5.119	*2942	(5^20	*30.00	*5624	"440.46	*5331	iiiil
					tM«	*5£3B	tiiM	48.W	444.44	*5.761	(33.11	41478"	Tbi.ff’	*5,993	"W44-
	031 | 0473		MwlogklSpppA		tooinr	M	44.446	*2325	14,144	U4.fi	44ifiT	*24.1*	*4^93	”1*4.57	44.4H	Ik&io
			r	.	..		Ml	<4.467	03.67	*4,566	tti.14	(4,848	44i.il	*4.740	4^14	*4,836	tar.ri
					rm	<4.933		48.&0	k±S.41	(5.131	(29.49	smM	<30.08	*5337	TR at~
	091 | 9474		AudWocM.gr		MM	M	M.H4	*2930	41518	(29.97	44,nr	*3067	U.4H	"IM.14	41.4S"	1U1W
			1 ' < *		l-W	*5,843	*32.43	(6,754	*33.07	(5,889	,tii.7i	(5,088	<34a6'	*6,104	
					1VW	<6,i26	t«.W	44.449 '	4H.44	(8,478		(8,806	■W.W	<6,7#	
	031 | 9475			amiM		<4.416	*28.78	44.W	IWM	44441	*27.82	(4,938	'K&U	41WT	
			■		Ml	*5,135	*2961	*5237	4ad.ib	*5,342	*30.70	*5,448	<31.41	*6,556	*3193
					11-11	44,60	444.8*	44,>46	(33 32	(5,8i6	*3368	*6,012		<8.iii	<5t.i4
	031 | 9478		AudWogkParNm		(WolJW	1	U.M6	WS4"								
			■Niota	cua	mown wm*m	tun	weim amp**■■!■!it	' <*« " owun *«	-	-MT ®ssw_							——					
									■- -				- - -		
												■> ”1	r_;"'		
	UJ t		Tnsrap^, cjccuoBtonai II	j 07101 »7		X	*4,983	*29.64	*5.063		(5,183	$2a.7S’	I&2M			
			piMnriMrta +	.tun	111	Ml	*8,498	tilAb	-cnwi"	(3223.	<8>l9	ttui	4eM1	<336i	4abO"	*34.19
			tlM			(6,067	.4i4.tr,	<4.187	,435.48-	4M11	-SM-ir-	44XT	(88.99	IoXo	<37.73-
			taMtWMM '	'll* '												
			tWM	/	2M.	Ottt* '												
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
156
	Unk Coda	TMa Coda	ntMNama			8 T E P 8		.			■ ' £ "		J		4		5	
							«		7		8		9		10	
							It		12		13		-14		18	
					Oota		19		17		18		1)		20	
							21		22		23		24		28	
							2®		27		2B		29		30	
									MW	a		. MM*	MB*	.hbwV	MW	
	Ml	9*98	Tharapto*. Occupational I		oMW	M	>4,315	>2480	Woo	52&.2B	W*?1		>4,576	UAJfl	94,687	IM8F
				wn	«W«		>4.759	>27.35	>4.853	*27.89	*4,949	•2^.34'	*5,048	529.01	56.149	>29.59
				(UO	MOUB	fMI	55,251	130.16	35,356	530.78	>5/482	*3l^*	>5,570	*$2.01	55.681	*32.6*
			mmmwmmm	(IM	own*											
			tec* .	MW	OWtt#											
			TactaotogK, itudoar Mad, Sr		07/01/07	M	14,157	129.114		"IS53T		*30,83	•4.474	151.44	>5,560	532.07
			■MIMq	MM	owm		*5,t®2	*$i.7i	56,805	533.38	55,919	53402	56,038	534.70	56.158	538&
				MM	BW		>8,280	>30.09	*8,405	*3881	>6.532	*37,54	56,882	*$8.2*	>6.796	53905
			(MWCMWMMM	(160	WJOUOa											
8			0i»M .	MU "	MO*											
D			Tachnoiogtt.NucMad.Sr.PerDi | amiMT				*4.760	"lUte								
				RM	OTBUB									*		
			MMMNVM	UM '	omun											
			KMinMtM	(ttt	WOU9											
			0»Of	MW	trtAtei											
	035	8983	Orthoptist		07/01/07		>4.672	126.85	*4,764	Ur.38		527.92	>4.966	5*84*	*5,0&	529.05
			MKNtah	RM			>5,156	129.53	>6,258	>30.22	>5,363	**o.E£	>5.469	531.43	>5,978	i£t.6T
			MOOK*	iuo	WSMB	*w«	>5,890	532.70	>6,803	13335	55,918	534.01	56,036	>34(»	>6.166	53538
				•IM												
			OnM	MU	wnm											
																
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
157
	Link Cod*	no* Coda	TOtoNNM		6 T E P 8		1			9			J				4				*		
						• .		7		•.		*		10	
						44		19				14		15	
				Mt		io		17		i*		18		. . 20	
						94		B ■		n		>4		*6	
						28		27		M		S'		•0	
						ami*		—•	•m* -		nwa	M*	Hwa	Mat*	Ms*
															
	W | 883*		SdMtot SpecMKCI Lab	otjqi/ot	w	u,w	tM.4*	16.65?		U.1H		*9^1		*&MS	.*30.84
			SMtMaMf	na	tS		16,473	*31.48	•5482	*3208	•6484	*3Z?2	*5308	*334*	*5,024	*34.65
			MOtivt	is		IMS	*8,042	*Uh	*8,163	M42	18486	*30.1*	*6,412	*****	tOXMO	ti?2W
			.	»U9	CHQt£t	IM	*8,671	1*2.33	*8404	W5"	*8.940	' *30153“	•7X178	•40.68	*7,221	•41.50
			(Mti	4	na	M	n	*7,385									
	tat | 8M0		Sdandtt, OHodLab	07A1/D7	M	J4JW	*M.M	I44W	*96.42	UM	Hitt		«i>.40	14,6ft	HU*
			aa ,	,aa f •	Mt	*4,877	Meo	*6477	*29.18	*6,179	**8.7*	•5^83	•30.36	*6386	UdJff
			MMRRH	’	M'	iMa	*6.487	**4U	*9,807	*42.22	•5,718	*32.6?	*5.833	*yw	*6,850	*342(5
			MHMTWaMM	11*	pnnfls	IWI	*8,089	*34*8	*8,100	K5.5?	•8,314	*3*. io	*8,440	(37.01	*6,660	*i?,75
			MM	at	is	n	*8.700	tttsi								
	(H7 | 92«		Physictan AmMwA Svnior	"BraFiAJff	M	*5.285	WLW	*9,9*1	ISo.ee	*9,48*	HIM	*5,864		T9.H1	H* 1*
			'fft	aa	Mt	*5,835	iJj.53	*6.962	W431	•6,071	far	*6,192	*35.56	*8,316	*9*38"
s			MCKIM	aa		1M»	*8,442	*H.tt	*6,671	**7.78	•6.702	*38.62	*8336	•3828	texift	*4o.b7
A			MOVWMM	lU*	SWIM	IM	*7.112	11087	*7454	*41.(91	P488	*42.59	*7,547	*4X97 ’	*7,686	(44.24
R			EMM	* -		>W	W&62	*45.13	*9,660	*48.03	*8,188	*49*9	(8,332	*4r*5“		
	65?		Physician Anat	07/01/07	M	uui	(HU	*TO6	*25.16	*4,M	H&.T91	Is.ood	*29.30 '	*5,200	*9*JH
			MM*M| '	«	aa e.	Mt	(6,304	.**048	*5,410	MO*	*5418	**i.H	*6X128	“**2.*4>	*6,741	•3208
c			M«W	ee		•Mt	*5,856	19186	*6.973	**4.i3	*8,092	**&01	•6,214	*35.71	*6338	*3*4*
g			mi rat wi iii j	<i* t'	J crew*1	SMt	(6,465	*37.4*	*8,684		•6.726	•38.66	*6,881	*39.43	*6,908	*40ii
n			EMM	' na		h*	*7,138	•41XB	*?i*i	141.81	*?.4W	*42J»	*7,576	"*4K4		
7	I 82M		FhyaUan AaaKant, Par dam	WAMjF	»	U.4&	'VK8						w		
			Martw** ..	«L					,*				4. '		
			■acviant *•■ • -	■ -	- ™												
			Mnaea				r '	-				*■*=				
			OMM	na	m									■ -		
		r-i-r-*	<5F ’	i	vMwlrUZ	14	♦7.B3Z		V,»H	*45.91 ’	*8,148	•43.53.	*8.312	£47.77.'		
					Mff	*8,848	sie.ft"	*i*2i	•50.70	*A9tf	*91.71	•8.177	•52.74	SL361	,*s£*6
			— * -* -*•	- - „	tM> |	*8,548	•5447	*8.730	.*Siw"	*8494		*11X133	(68J4-	*10338	-ite9.4b
					* ;	*id,*4i	**KW								
	6# [ *24*		Phamadat SWF I	I	07/01/07	M 1	Wjil	(40.83	F9tt	*41.14'		iffijr		'1414*'	1W	*441*
				r'IS		friHi"	*45.18	t*4ie	*4*.oi	*5,17*	*47.00	U*49	*47.54“	"U*M	
			MQliM	aa, T		tMt	NL678	*4ai*	H*6*	*M.8*	UM	Wl.w>	U911	•62.94	Seis**	*8*1**
			MMVwaiM’	>un,	ffsVOt	* 1	**&*	•Ua.OT’						7		* -
			EMM c .	LR .	. m			r( ” - ■;								O 1
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
158
	Unk cod*	■ntta Code	TlttoHame	Eflaetfva Date	s T E P S	"	1			1				5				1			s	
						e		7		8		8		10	
						*1 ■■ ■ 19		■■ ii 17		is 18		14 ■ 18		IS ■ 20	
						21		22		23		2*			
						29		27		28		28		10	
						wwr -	I >Mr	MW	' MflW	—*	1		I mw		
s A N T A B A R B A R A	UHUBAMJUU														
	ate |		CMthn I		M	*3,235	UU1	♦3.303	lia.U	♦3,368	(IMS	•3.430	♦19.76	*3,505	$20.14
					Ml	*3,675	♦Mos	•3,647	"Eo'oT	*3,720	$2138	•3,794	'♦aiM1	•3,870	$22.24
					IM*	♦3.947	$2248	*4,020	$23.14	*4,107	$2360	*4.189		*4.273	UlSf
					♦Ml	•4.3M	32506	*4,445	♦MU	*4,534	"♦46.M'	*4.025	♦MU	*4.718	♦zf.H
	027 | 8940		Sdert^CtiicalLab	67/01W	M	*4,139	1M.70	♦4,222	$24.28	•4,300	t24.7B	*4,392	IM.54	*4,480	tM!W’
			II' • 9 i > < t Id HH		M*	*4,570	326 JS	*4,851	$26.79	•4,754	$27.62	•4,849	fc!7.6>	♦4.9*6	♦M.4i
					IM*	♦6,046	$28 $0	•5,145	^29^7*	•5,24#	$30.17	•5,354	♦so', yr	•5,401	$3139
					*■	*5,570	"♦ti.oi'	•5,081	$3265	•5.795	$33 30	•5,911	$33.97	•8.029	♦S4.&
															
	027	69M	ScMM. Bin Lab. For Diem	UnmUJr		♦6.423	HIM								
		9244	Ptiystalw A**t	bmoifbi	M	•5.015	$28.82	•5,115	$28.40	•5.217	haU	•5,321	$30.58	*5,427	Ul.ifi
					Ml	♦5,538	$31.82	*5,647	U2.48	•5.700	$33.10	*5,875	♦M.W	•5,993	.M4.44
					IM*	♦8,113	t$5.ii	♦8.235	$36.83	•0.300	♦M.M	*0,487	$37 28	*8,817	"lOi
						♦0.749	♦MM	*8.884		•7,022	♦ULM	♦7,102	♦4T.1B”	•7.306	I41.M
	(A& | 9244		Phwnftdrt, Sr	6W1W	M	•8,oei	$46.27	*8.212	Hr.44	*8,376	WU	•8.544	144.16	•8,715	$60.00
					M*	•8,589	♦51.09	•9,087	Ui.ii	*9,248	Uiii	•8,433	♦64.2<	•9,822	ki.id
					11	•*,*14	♦46.46								
	6±fi | 9248		Plwmoctet, Staff I		M	•7.341		*7,485	nfii.fi?	•7,838	Wifi	•7,791	♦UN	•7,947	WIT
					Ml	*5.100	'♦48.59	•5,205	t47 6i	•8,433	$48.47	•8,002	$49.44	•0.774	W.45
					1MJ	*8.948	Wi.4i	*9,126	♦52 48						
	ois | 93ll		Social Worker, Clinical Hi	wmfct	M	•4,117	tis.ei	•4,190	$24.13	•4483	♦Mil	*4,309	$28.11	•4,458	ucn1
			-		M*	*4,545	128.13	•4.838	$2684	•4,729		•4,824	♦i+.Ti	*4,620	♦aiis
					1M»	•5,018	tiiU	*5,118	$28.4l	•5.220	$30.00	•5,324	$30.00	•5,430	♦sill'
					IM»	*5,539	♦51U	•0.850	“♦614!	•5.783	♦Utt				
	644 1 4414		SocW Worker. Clinical II	;	6NMJW	M	*3,717	15154	*3,791	ttl.H	*3,667	♦iiH	•3,944		♦4,023	- tifi.11
			- ■		Ml	*4,103	ti3.58	*4,185	$24.05	*4,268	l24.ii	*4,854	$26.a4	*4X1	$2862
					TM>	*4.630	$2603	*4,821	$2656	*4,713	$27.08	«4M7	♦27.M	*4,003	$28.18
					IM*	•5.001	13674	*5.101	$2932	*6,203	$29.90				
	029 1 9316		Social Worker, Clinical, I	| 07ID1J07		M	*3,233	1 H4.bA	•3,298	"HUN"	•3,304	lioii	•3,431		*3,800	$20.11
					Ml	*3,670	$20.52	*3,641	$2093	*3,714	$21.34	*3,7*8	"Ulfri 1	*3A84	$22.21
					tMI	*3,941	$22.ad	•4,020	$23.10	•4,100	$23.56	*4,182	♦2A03	*4406	♦14.62
					IM*	*4,331	-625.01	•4438	♦MU	•4,527	i&fii				
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1.2C07
	Link Cod*	TO. Cod*	TO.NMM	Effcdh* Date	8 T ■ E. 8	1			i			3		4			!		
						8		7		8		8		10	
						41 ■		12		13		14		18	
						18		17		18		18		20	
						zr		zr		Z3		ai		1A	
						26		27		28		20		30	
							Mfr	MW	WW		HMN*			MO*	MW* -
8 B	030	8383	PnctMfagKII	iuMlSI	M	*4.734	827-21	*4.829	TSTTT	*4.928	828.31	*6,026	*2968	*6,126	820*8
						*6.228	830.05	•5434	Imm	*5,441	831-27	•5460	831.00	toeai	832.53
					11-U	*5.774	833.18	*5469	833.84	•0,007	$34.62	*0.127	835.21	♦6,250	838.82
					MJ*	*0.375	tww	*5,503	Tiltf	*5433	144.15"	*6,760		*0,901 -	,838.88
	030	#38*	kycholootet I	| taraiAW		14	*4.305	T5TTF	*4,3*2	"BLU	*4.450	425.75	•4470	828-20	*4.001	68.78
					IM	*4,754	827.32	*4449		*4,848	428.4'	•5.045	82880	•6.140	t205T'
						*8.248	830.17	•5454	*30.77	*5.401	831.38	•6470	832.01	*5.881	832.85
					***	*5.786	833.30	•5411	TSSSf	*5.029	tMM	*6,150	tMi*	•0,273	83a.oi
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
o>
	Link Coda	TMe Coda	Uda Hamo			8 T E P 8	1		i		3		4		*	
							6		7		8		6		10	
							11		12		13		14 .		15	
							16		17		16		It		20	
							21		22		23		' ‘ii		25	
							26		27		26		2>		30	
							MW	i MMW	MeaAlT	: HmW	MW	MMlf	atoaa	tat*	IMNW	Hswv .
	IRVINE															
	026	5*21	DistohrxPd		07)61/07	1	*5.981	*M.?B								
	026	542e	Dtetifan 1		07/01/07	Vf	*4.044	*JJ.K	*4,dr	*23.71	*4^y	*24.16	*4,291	*24<W	U.377	*25.16
						t-M	*4,465	*MM	*4,56*	isi.d	*4,645	*2*.V0	>4,736	*17.2*	*4.832	*27.78
	027 I 6toi		SdentM Spoc,CUn Lab.Sr		07/01 /07	M	*A.ii2	*35.78	"*6,343“	*36.46	**,4^5	*37.21	*8,***	*37.iS	*4,73§~	*38.71
				•in	M*>W		*6.870	*30.48	*7.007	*4027	*7,148	*41.06	*7,291	*41.90	*7,437	*42.74
			MH«W«	arc	MW											
																
			cn>c«a	wo	DMHJffT											
	027	**39	Sdenttet Spodatata Lab		07/01/07	*4	*6,060	*54.55 '	*6,182“	*35.53	■"W.'S&i'	*36.24	*8,431	i38bA	J6.560	SJV.W
				tl.Fl	9WW		*6.880	*38.45	*8.824	*36.22	$8,860	*40.00	*7,099	*4080	*7,242	*41.82
			iwcrw	ure	MOW?											
			mmmwmmm													
			Or*<M	U 40	MAW											
1	027	AM	SdentM, Clinical Lab		07/0lM	14	*5,502	**1.62	*5,612	*5iz?	*5,725	*32.80	*5.839	li3 5d	$5,956	*i45i
ft			WWfrtW		MOW	IM	*6.074	<34.81	*8.106	*35.81	*6.320	*38.32	*6,447	*37.05	*6,575	*37.79
v			MHWTNVI	Un	MOW											
|			NKIffWiMM													
N			UMM	IMO	MAW											
E	627 | 6954		CytDtochnotoQfst, Senior		07/01/07	M	*8,383	***.*?	*6,490	HIM	T*,*5i	*38.05	*8,753	bail	$6,889	*39.59
				•in	MOW		*7,026	*4038	*7,167	*41.19	*7,310	*42.01	*7,456	*42.85	■^7,806	'WJl"
				Un	oww											
				FW	M											
			>C*													
	027	"bSS	cytotochnoloQlst	1	07/01/07	M	*6,060	IM**	"Miff"	*****	*&SM	*36.24	*8,431		KMwU	*37.70
				n.m	MW		*6,880	*36.45	*0624	**8.22	*8,960	*40.00	*7,099	*40.80	$7242	*4i,62
				Un	MAW?											
			AMKMWW4	na	- at											
			MH	Ml												
	027	MAA	SdentkLCUn Lab,Par Dtam		07/01/07	1	U.W	br'W								
			WB-MCw**	M	MOW											
				UTO	MOW											
			mwvwwmr*									/		’7 - kJ 7 <		
			MM	•MO .	MOW									nftfls G		" i*
	M7	AM?	SdenfeLCltn LabAppranUca	1	'IJMHW	1	IS,SB*	556.48						CECID3		
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
	Link Code	TWe Code	TUeNeme	Effective Dote	s T E P 8		1			a		3			4			5	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11 10		42 1?		ii ■- “I 18		. ■ 14 ■ 19		16 20	
						fl			21				44		25	
						28		27		28		39		30	
						ItffMfr*	MM4		Hwly	IM*	hmm*	M4	Hfff|		llllfffr
	027	8907	CytotBCnfiOtOQSt' be Pw Dwci	07/01/07	1	rrar	844.50 -								
			II" e e - . 1 ! hl 11 II												
															
															
															
I R V I N E	obi | 92*4		Ptiyiichn Astteteflt) Stntof	Umim	%•	4/585	34aH	$7,738	$44.44	lAAai	t4K3<	$8,o45-1	344.43		$47.14
					t-M	>8,375	<4813	<8.542	$49.09	$8,712	34.07	$8,886	<51.07	34.464	$52 00
		9203	Phntoien Aeet	bmioi	M	87.223	Ui.si	<7.441"	$42.34	<7.il5		Mitt	iHi.HI	$7,816	$4493
					Mt	$7,974	<45*3	$8,135	$46.*5	$8,288	$47 89	$8,463	<44.44	$£832	$4061
			Pharmacist. Sr	07/01/07	M	$9,574	Us.oi1	<9.7*4	383.11	<9.4*	WIT	$10,180	$58 39	3i6,444	334.33
					•	$10,570	<60.75								
	026 | 9247		HematM^H	*7»1/O7	14	<4,1l4	$52.40	<8,3*5	UJ.43	$9,486	384.83	$9,676	$56.61	<9.8*4	334.H
			II" le 8 . . 1 t 1 1 III Uh		t	$10,088	<57.86								
													1		
															
															
	028	9248	Pharmactot Steffi			$8,683	$49.90	$8,857	3MM	$*,034	3H*2	3*^14'	$62.96	$9,39*	3&IKT'
			II" n>> 111 III;		t	$0,587	$56.10								
															
															
															
	028	9249	Pharmacm, Per bion	| 074)1/07		<	$10,919	I&1U								
			N»Oilw*v	MTS	OWW MOftiqp	U» ' WW naswuM	*• OC*	’ M	_RB													
															
									-	—	—				*	 ■ —'		
			vuuiiwMjCi Gwriug ui	j U/AXUv7		M	$4,987	12854	Ktes	$29.11	$£167	B26’u"	3*071	$juii	IMW	<30.90
					Mt	$6,484	til51	$5,693	Ui.TT	<5,70*	$32.79	$£819	34444 "i	<5.*se	- $34.11.
	020 T msr		Counseiar. Genetic II		14	I4,8>5	344^9	$4,667	iJiSi		34754	UteS	347.M	$4,9S4	$28.46
					Mt		<*903	$6,152	<29*1		35(5.5b		tswr	fc.444	<31,42
	029 I 9288		Couneeior, Genette 1	drool tar	14	34,444	T54.4F	$4,344	$24 06	14,43*	143.44	I4,wr	343 W	34J3T	H8I45
					t-M	$4,702	$2>P2	TUJST	$27 56	84.M1	$28.11	34X	Ta.«7		ii<^6
	029	9310	Sodd Worker, CkuPO JJceneed	07/01 Kft	1	<£8»	$3350								
	029	9313	Social Worker, OWcal III	OTKnKf	14	<£i<<	129.63'	$£240	$30.11	$5,346	$30.72	3Mai	$31.33	*£MF	$31,
					frit	14*72	$32.60	Ktur			3S6i’	34*14		3&144	)13£29t
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
162
020
8314
6M | «31&
TSK
8345
w
028 | 93S2
TUaMam*
I^IMer.&tonr
Sodd Wodor, dwtaf, I

Chid Dwalopmant Asioc
Child L^ApadtfatlT
029 | 8353
la JO
07/01/07

WW
07/01/07
I toknto
(JTMKJCT
Chid Ufa SpadaBat I
| 07/01/07 OWiM
N
030 | 9383
6$6 | tok
pj^R5E55nr
tel I 64$1
tti | 64®
Thantptet, Ju3^~~
Thartptet, riSpEEHT
tai | 6464	iTOrnT
Sfecthe
rtottir ‘ rsrow • I IMMi • I WHW ' I MlaW ■
I w&HMrr
T
IT 16 IF
12
27
T 8 13
W
18
34
T 18
30
$4,690 $5,178 TOTO ■WTO WTO
$28.95 UM TOTO TOW TOW
$4,784
KW W $4.791
$27 49 W5F TOW WBr
$4,880 $5388 WTO
WTO
12806 W3W TOT Bros'
$4,977 W TOT
$4,884
$28 60 TOW TOW TOW
$5,077

WEST
$29.18 TS5T TOW wro~
$3,854 $4,256 TOTO 14.698
$22.15 TOW TOTO TOW
$3,932 $4,341 WTO $4,792
$2260 TOW TOW $27.54
$4,011 $4,428 WTO $4,888
$2305 TOTT tow $28.09
$4,091 T<W WTO $4,985
$23.51 TOW TOW $2165
$4,173 $4,808 TW $5.084
$2188
w
WTO
$3,854
$4358
$24 48
WTO $4,341
W TOW

$4.428
tow
TOW
$4,081
$4,517
823.il TOW
WTO
$4,006
w $28.48
w
$4,054
44t	$3,677
~TW
Mt $7^33 — WTO f-w $6,561 m 14,644 WW “UTO ww

TOTO TOST TFT TOW TOW TOW TOTO TOW TOTO TOW TOTO TOW TOTO
WWF' $4,136 ' BBT' $3,756 $8,682 ‘ 17BT" TOW" TOH"' TOW
TOST1
TOST'
TOTO'
w TOTe TOT wrg
$38.40
"TOW $34.83 TOW towt TOW TOTO
WTO WTO $3,464
$aiiA WTO WTO
TOW TOW 119 91' $21.88 TOW H3W TOTO TOW
W BBT TOST WTO W
tow $24.72 w

WTO" TOW
WTO
WTO
TOW"
$44.11
TOW tow -er®" gw w $27.20., •roar
WTO $4,388
W WTO
w
84,374 WTO $4,374
TOW $2522 IWA TOW $40.75 TOW $38.97 TOW 8^6.14
IHLriaHifftili;
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1.2007
163
	Link Cod*	■nan Code	TObNem	EHectlw Dote	8. T E P 8	1 1			2			3			Z				8	
						e		7		8		9			10	
						i{~-18		. 12 17		13 ■ 18		u 19			18 20	
						21		ri		23		ai				
						28		27		28		ri			10	
						Itatit	Hwt	■MA*	Mw*	***	Hew* -	MW				HMl T
					Mi	1 UKI'	823.30	84,136	823.77	"WBJ	52425	u.&r	U4J4		81Ho	ISNLri
	Tar	947T	Spend). Pethdotfrt, pw DMm	HniJOT	1	*4.Hi	348.50									
	Mi	TUT	PettidooM. Speed), Sr	Gtnwff	M	86)240	ULM	86,363	ISM	36,490	iwsr	86.621	iSitM		Mwy	
					Mi	10889	IAN	87,026	w»	87,167	541.19	87,31(5	Midi		*7>4	84ibd
	031 ] 9473		Patbdodnt,Speed)			M	15.942	834.15	88,060	IW.H	86,182	tsr.ro"	M.3M	'ISE St'		M.4ii	
					Mi	38.560	"Uhr	M, Md	1M48	86,824		36,960	SBS.SS		t7,6H	U5.M
	031 I 9474		AudWookSr	mmirn	14	ti.942	tun	M.6M	H4H	86.182			83824			IMM'
					Mi	44.560	IW.W	feMb	HL4		ISES	36,960	840.00		h,W	
	Hi | 4475		AudloUgW	| 07AMW7		*4		831.M	U88F	HIM	t£Hi	liiiS	|5.7±T	HUA		IEH4	833.44
					Mi	85,956	834.23	88,074	134.91	86,196	835.81	86,320	MUd		M.M?	Mr.M
R V I N E	Mi	MM	TherapM, Occupa.Pnr Diem, 11	07B1JCT	1	88,004	W.W									
	031	9491	Therapist. Occupe, Per DMm I	67AHA57	1	17-264	541.40									
	Mi	9496	ThencM, OcxnxSond II		♦4	58)240	Hs.80	38363	83857	M.4M	HT.H	U.B21			86,753	t&LH
					Mi	IMW		17,024	M6.H	87.167	Mi.il	87310	842.01		37,458	M5W
	oTT	MM	Tberapiet Occupetlonei I	OflMW	M	ii.Mi	834.15	H,MS	8S4.83	86,182	HSU	56,306	336.24		M.491	638.96
					Mi	86.560	W.H	36,680	838.45	86,824	839.22	86.960	840.00		M.MA	540180
	oH | MH		Techndogtot. Nudeer Med, Sr	07AM ffl7	M	88,551	ISHT	36,682	l&M	86,816	839.17	M.Mr	'ISMS'			"HUT
			«M0l		Mt	87.233	841.57	87.378	842.40	87.526	Maid	87.677	144.12		37.830	645.00
			MMRN^d	ttW	Miff ' MUQ1 *												
			-t.	US'.							-■ —						r
	Mi I M64		Techndoght, Nudeer kindle Ine	07701107	M	U.240	him	88,366		36,492	-'isnr	U.62i	HIM		88,758	mu
			&MihW	li.w	SM8i Min* -		Mt	36.890	8MM	87028	"Pb/ri"	37.169	Mlifi"	87.311	H£S"		37/468	HIM
										—			r'			
			5WW	2-"^.,		-^WS-	■ CWLSS"				~ —	—		' - ■			'			■■	
	Mi [ 4538		Technoiotf»t,NucMed,Sr,PerDi		1		845.00.						. <*	-r-			
			ihi 55 ■ S hl								a_		- —-			■ ■
																
																
									J. -fc. ‘		*					
	035			TOT	M		(Auro*		Ei.ftJ	mn	IMJ8	U.TU				iH.M
			MWtMe	* tue	eietee MMVWti '	■ *M>1	MAIM		Ml	8&066	834.23	8A074	834.91	86.196	IHjai	M320			IO#	
									*							ii
													H " ,			0 . ’
HX Appendix A Year 2
Effective July 1,2007
	Link Co*	™» Co*	HtteNuna		a T E P 8		1				3			i		" 4"" '" '		' 5	
						.8 ..		7		■		8		10	
						■11 ■		"	11		13		14		' 11	
				Date		18		17		18		1>		20	
						21		22		. ii		24		is	
						25		27		28		29		30	
								*<•*	H?. ltM% ju-					•trt*	
			’	|M '														 .
	035 | 8863		Orthoptbt	o/MiAlZ	14	•4,883		WM	. (28.68	T8.6M	»29.26<	TETC"	WM	IEBT	•3044
			II" hl im		Ml	15.403	•31.05	(5,511	131.17	•6,620	M30	•5.733	832.85	85,548	*3X11
															
															
															
	106 | B240		*4	t-L‘ 4 *	~.r		 r^iywcm, ■if— KBonoon	wlmkit		•6,240	HIM	U.MA	HAW	U,4oi	837.ll,	|8,62±	WM'		UAK
					M»	•6.890	'■'HEW	V.til	W.38	ttito		•7,311	«4W		WJT
	IM | 0241		Phyktetet.HMpNalftad.Aut	owoiArt	M	•4,803	tt&Jj	U4W	mu1	T3,ito		UiH	'W	tsssr	•3044
					•-to	•5,403	•31.06	36.511	'tJi.it	ii,620	til.iti	•5.733	tiita	35,848'	833.81
2
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
165
						1		2		1 3			4			5		
					8	fl		7		1	8			9			10		
					t	11		12		1	1$			14			15		
		liD®	INb Kam	EIIM4IW	E	ftf		tr		1	»						X>		
				Dste	P	21		22		23			24			25		
					S	26		27										
						IM*			-HM	IW*			IMW	"*Y			'Hour*	
		BwEalay																	
	026	5428	DieOttanl	7/1/2008	14	$3,788	gt.77	$3,863	$2220	$3,941	$2245		$4,019	$23.10		$4,100		
			'	x'.M'P»irILS■f'.r		Ml	$4,182		$4^268	$2442	$4,383	$28.19		$4,438	$26.51		$4,527	$ML02	
					11-11	$4,618	CW	$4,709	$27.06	$4,804	$2741		$4,900	tea.™		$4,998	teB.72	
					1MI	$5,098	$29.30	$5^00	$2949	$5,303	$30.48		$5,410	$31.09		$5,519	$31.72	
	027	8939	Scientist SpedaOst Clin Lab	7/1/2008	14	$5,402	$31.05	$5,510	$31.87	$5421			$5,733	$32.96		$5348		
					Ml	$5,964		$6,084	$34.96	$8^05	$3548		$6,330	$3838		$8,456	$37.l6	
				Wi	t-MI	$6,585	$3735	$6,717	$38.60	$6,851	$39.38		$6,989	$40.17		17,128	$40.97	
			J 'St'’'--1	<*.('- '<, ‘		1M7	$7,271	$41.79	$7,416	$42.62		-tit							
	027	8940	Scientist, Clinical Lab	7/1/2008	14	$4,911	$28.22	$5,008	$28.78	$5,109	I	29.36	$5,211	$29/96		$5,315		30.56
				-t- . r’ ,<•	Ml	$5,422	$31.18	$5,531	$31.78	$5,640	i	32.42	$5,753	$3337		$5,869		33.73
B					1MI	$5,986	$34.40	$6,105	i35-09	$6,228	!	35.79	$6,352	$3630		$6,479		3723
E					iMf	$6,609	Elm	$6,741	<38.74					>>■				
R	027	8956	Scientist, CUn Lab. PD	7/1/2008	1	$5,644	$3244			tT						Cif’1’’"		1'	
K	027	9203	Physician Assistant	7/1/2008	14	$5,426	$31.18	$5,535	$3141	$5,646	t32M		$5,759		33.10	$5,874	$33.76	
E			. r	’ £	. r* ■■ >J!	" ■•■	'J	. a •?	Ml	$5,991	$34,43	$6,111	$35.12	$6^33			$6,357	i	36-54	$6/484	$37^7	
L				/? *■	11-11	$6,614	$38X11	$6,747	$38.78	$6,881			$7,019		40.34	$7,159	$41.14	
E			■■	s ■	> ’	- ; ?		1MI	$7,303	$41.97	$7,449	$42.81	$7,598	y3945			-'ail			11* ’.»*■	
Y	027	9204	Physician Assistant, PD	7/1/2008	1	$8,599	$49.42		■** ***1^									
	028	9248	Pharmacist, Staff 1	7/1/2008	>4	$7,949	$45.60	$8,109	$4840	$8^70	ff-53		$8,438	$48.48		$8,605	$48/45	
				"*1	^10	$8,777	$60.44	$8,952	$5145	$9,131	$82.48		$9,314	$8363		$9,500	$54X50	
			='?iti.-,*■?		11	$9,690	$55.69		■££ I ■		L- -I > X			A ’	'			7 S- • < -	
			OH	-Tf4 F*»n		” r.?n	*^«* *■		IS 1	■			—=—:—							
	029	9313	Social Worker, CHracal ill	7/1/2008	V4	$4,746	$27.27	$4441		$4,937	$2848		$5,036			$5,137	Ire	
					Ml	$5,240	teo.1t	$5344	teOL7<	$6,452	$31.33		$5861	$3196		$5,672	&jte	
					11-11	$5,786	$3326	$6,901		$6,019	$3449		$8,140	0®^		$8^62	W»	
					1MT	$6,387	$36.71	$6415	$37.46		T '\-t							
	029	9314	Sodal Worker, Clinical II	7/1/2008	♦*	$4,310	<24.77	$4498			I	25.77	$4,574	$26/29		$4,885		
			\ *\ i - ■ * * 'jr.fr-1 •*• - •-i* r..'-r ., *		MS	$4,759	&3S	$4353		saqsd	I	28.45	$5,049			te161	i	2<80
					1MI	<5,254	$30.1#	$5,358	f».7»	$5486	J	aUt	$5,5/8	<32-04		te.687	■I	te^8
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
	Link Cod*	TTUo Cod*	TMeNam*	Eftattv* Dat*	S T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		IS	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		28	
						26		27							
							1T~TB	$3,517	Bix.lIJ	$3.587 $3,960 $4,372 $5,022	srzrs		Snob*1-	IM*	**
B E R K E L E Y	029	9815	Social Wortcar, CUrtfcal I	7/1/2008	w	r$3.448	IILUJ					$3,859	$21J3	$3,732	*24.45
					M»	$3JW	Irilii	$3,883	1			$4,tW)	$2322	$4,120	$2ue
						$4,202	1^511	$4287 $4,925	ishi		r.Sr]	$4,460	$25JJ3	$4,549	te&i4
	030 19383		Psychotofllst 11	7/1/2008		$4,828			LrlJ		L±lii	$5,124	i2M5	$5226	
			.	J;?! iiggi l-;O S'Hfi < ■'^IIW'5		M*	$5,330	row	$5,437		$5,546 $6,123 $6,760. $7,464 $4,521 $4,991 $5,511 $6,085 $6,718	r'YF7i	$5,656	$32.81	$5,770	$38.16
					im	$5,885	i-pi rsisj	$6,003			MH	$6,245	$3M8	$8J70	$38j61
					1W	$6,497		$6,627	liLEJ			$6,895	$3fcp3	$7,033	$4042
					n-ts	$7,173	U£td	$7,317	HMfel		HBE3	$7,612	$43.75	$7,765	$44.63
					JM7	$7,920		$8,078 $4,433	r.;^i						Efim
	030	9384	Psychologist I	7/1/2008	4^	$4,345	IrWi				pii'i	$4,611	$2650	$4,704	$27.03
			■■ '	’	'v;<<U5;		HI	$4,798	lii£J	$4,893	PWI		lilEJ	$5,091	$2926	$5,194	ra*5
					11*11	$5,297	rzzn	$5,404	rm		IdtU	$5,621	$32 JO	$5,734	$32 *5
					IM	$5,848	IKI-H	$5,965	HIM		tiny	$6,207	$35.67	$6,330	$38.38
					21-21	$6,457	Lii«!	$6,586	l>WM		lain	$6,852	$39.38	$6,989	$40.17
					2MT	$7,129		$7272	HIM		re«sa		7'?'		
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
167
						1	2		3		4	5
					s	0	7		B		9	10
	Link	TVtt*		Effective	T	11	12		13		14	15
	fjvfa	Cmft	TIOeHame	ftate	E	16	17		18		19	20
				ww	P	21	22		23		U	25
					6	26	27					
						Moan* h	MmS*			^rta^r.-	Mona* 1 Wfct	Moca*
	Sen Francisco											
	028	5421	Dietitian, PD	7/1/2008	1-1	E323ISE3	$6,455	$37.10			MHIE&55	
	026	5428	Dtetfflanl	7/1/2008	14	E3ZJOEI	$4333	tZ7.77	$4,929	$28.33	EEzacsu	
					Mt	twma	$5,335	$30.68	$5,442	$3137		t^i rwm
				*	11-tt		$5,891	$8185	$6,008	$34.53		UKIJESEil
					It					tar’iz		OES
				CoixrtJttr^		■■■ESKI		ISsf®.		Vf.’-'-C	^MISSES	
s	027	8938	Scientist Spec, Clin Lab, Sr.	7/1/2008	14	>^ltSE3	$8390	$8100	$7,030	$4030	EiAfiatllEH	EcEMK^a
A			'• <	'X		t-tt	KgRlRFEa	$7,607	$43.72	$7,760	$44.60	tiX'itirm	EJEglE^O
N					11-15	tggannsi	$8,401	$4838	$8,568	$4934		13EMESE)
p			I <3 jj		It	ramirera				JIS k-	■■ESQ	
R	027	8939	Scientist Specialist. Cl Lab	7/1/2008	14		$6,555	$3737	$6,687	$38.43		
			sMHWBiifcs.?',-; ,	07JOMtt<	<-1t	ttiuaiEHa	$7335	$41 £8	$7,381			Frmr^rrn
N			MOfHgM. ■' '■ „.	SM#;. "'		11-18	tjj^irrgn	$7,988	$46.91	$8,148	$46.83	EEaEaEa	Exsaciin
C			MOfWMfari	w	'’nt "2	It	BWJEEEg						
I			0>hC«i	< .	OOM					tr-jf*'				
S	027	8940	Scientist. Clinical Lab	| 7/1/2008		M	tam=iia«i	$6340	$3186	$6365	$3668	E^ItFyrFl	E3^^JtS3j3
c			WHBEW, .	ffM	prows	Mt		$6,889	$3159	$7,028	$40^9	cxnaniKBi	EasuGaa
0			parm^ri’/. '	tub '■-L;	< mun?	1WJ	rinm	$7306	$4171	$7,759	$4159	BrMFlFTTn	E3B1CSE]|
					M	tw.4rmm		X i i-				M—
			0MM-.	■■ '-. ... '■■ m'					■?		Lij	■■■SSS3	
	027	8954	CytotechndoglsL Senior	7/1/2008	14	r.*w*resn	$6,459	$37.12	$6,588	$37.88	EXSirSEJ	ff: idbLjW j- y I:
			MSOfewSq *	, -J-. c. BM; r?	’ra*mu v	«.*>		«T <*>«			* - ■ - -J	tT-.± y-~-1	w/r ;
			w*W"4»-	.	txoo .		11-18	tigtHEnsa	$7,872	$4634	$8,028	$46.14	BJtEJHSCT	iiAztrrjrn
			—nwwiiiwm' f V'L- 7	■■'	3^ ftp l.^f'	It	rrryima				2i',~jL '■ *		—ma
			On-Crf	am			HHMSsSI						^■■^SEl
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
	Urik Coda	Title Coda	Title Name	Effective Date	$ T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11 15		12 17		13 18		14 19		is 20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		27							
										IMW	Hon^	IM*		UM**	Mwfr-
s A N F R A N C 1 5 C O	027	8955	Cytotechncloglst	7/1/2008	14	$5,747	$33.03	$5,862	$33,69	$5,979	$3436	$6,099	$35.05	$6,221	$36.75
			seutaieij,'’J."*m» ^7	. oniaaC"' 4.i‘: /• £;:•/ ;i' *7.'; X.' we	7 Al mom* ;		•41	$6,348	$36.47	$6,471	$37.19	$6,600	$37.93	$6,734	$38.70	$6,870	$39.48
					11-18	$7,005	$4056	$7,146	$41.07	$7,289	$41,69	$7,433	$4X72	$7,581	$43.57
					M	$7,757	$4458		/ t’		. j K - r»7**		- "ri		T ?<;■7
							1 ■.		j.				,lL.f i'		
	027 18956		Scientist, Oln Lab, Per Diem	7/1/2008	1	$8,963	$5151		■’ ■■■-				w ~		.4 Au-teZ
			BO CWBfertnjV	MOO <£*?•	OMIjug ■waniatT'- ■ “"I?'?'	'lajn'r	‘qasini/’. iwedfkMM; ,■,. ’■•£■	r'\~: >	l x	.	- Y '	'.<*• p . ?‘u	* OfeOtft'sL*4!/ v:	90« .£ 1..^. (®WB '				•- 1.		4-*r _	'■*■				•Jr.		.. _.;
							••				■ xy-..-.				■,^‘£
									■■ "X ' CT				>:		
							* *%*				-j/U.		'■ O'*5”		
	027 16959		Scientist, Crin Lab, Spec PD	7/1/2008	1	$9,064	$52.09		- -						■i< 4 ,
			twwwneif -	i tiwf-.'r '“owiiii: *\	<.	>*-<-t MMWWMaM	m ■’ .	*. :’/wA o»aa.’.'	wk ’:	' or»i™;				V.				< ' '-i V		t It < V5'” ?		'1 -T H1#
							_ ,a_.				**" J *		-r-.»		. ■ ; t
													> k.	j		
							r*L^j:±				il a._J7		Ij '• -V*		
	027 | 8998		Cytotechnologlst, PD	| 7/1/2008		1	$7,473	$42.95		V v-i						-. .-.■ r *
			mhbbws	'	--■ U.00 ' ' wwawartj;	, s djo '	; r - 'T’? ivxip*	s ■ •+, 'i <b,f'-"■ *2* ™ f -■-■*<												e >- r
							7VJ>$ 7								£*
							r		/ *r -*		♦rw		♦ < - •*		J J ‘th
									* L *A		. ' c?		/k ’		
	027 |9202		Physician Assistant, Sr.	f 7/1/2008		14	$8,251	$47.42	$8,415	$48.38	$8,583	$49.33	$8,756	$5032	$8,931	$5133
			etMeswieeY';	i.r; ’ -A-.'Mac;	’mowz' ..	* -,<%(	suo. -> mows MmiMM /?;.<- :5a ,'■ t' J	’M Zv			$9,109	$62.35	$9^92	$53.40	$9,478	$54.47	$9,669	$5557	$9382	$56.88
					1Vi»	$10,059	$5781	$10^61	$58J7	$10,468	$80.15	$10,673	$6134	$10,889	$8258
					10	$11,134	$83.99				1	4		1		
									, * *		r “ ''				
	027 19203		Physician Assistant	| 7/1/2008		M	$7,501	$43.11	$7,649	$43J6	$7,802	$4434	$7,959	$45.74	$8,117	$4656
			awoae«*is.-'	;. wr . ■ owutt, 'wi\' '. ■■“ shmm ,. trwcewmjit<>7-:.^ J-,?	re/"1/,		w	$8279	$47.68	$8,446	$4854	$8,616	fan so	$8,787	$SXS>'	$8,983	$5151
					11-H	$9,142	$62.54	$9,325	$5X59	$9^11	$54.66	$9,701	$55.75	$9,895	$5657
					n	$10,122	$58.17				.A		L* v A		
							k^f!L|		Ti’J.’		. IIT'^				fill! 1
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
cn
	Link Cocte	Tltta Code	IWeName	Effective Date	s T E P 8	1		2			3		4		s	
						6		7			8		9		10	
						11		12			13		14		15	
						18		17			IB		19		20	
						21		22			23		24		25	
						28		27								
						tfortNy	NMt|f'	ifantNy				’ HWV	MofNftly	..HStfV ’	iWt*	Hou*,
s * N F R A N C 1 s c o	027	9204	Physician Assistant. PD	7/1/2008	t	$10,765	$61.87			T*- -		‘ ~.<"4		ti V		► CL
			'Ji	i- f- L iG w® ~ -'&■ r wwvo* ■				.7					2'1- Jk		rvt		.. 5-
							; i V-ix,			jr \i .		v*	./f '		a l j -..^		
			f>«fs f.>U •■ t«r;* ■<!*?! 11	^ti’A			J i -2CZ					*3l*.				
				J oaoi©K			;/			>■*		ri		=1!-3.S		>: /TPi J.
	028 19246		Pharmacist, Sr.	17/1/2008		M	$10,791	i&.02	$11,012		$63^9	$11,237	IU5B	$11,467’	$65.90	$11,695	$87.21
					M	$11,929	WSB	$12,168		$69.93	$12,411	$71.33	$12,659	!?•?		Y";-'■#
	028 ] 9247		Pharmacist, ^taff H	J 7/1/2008		1-4	$10,767	W.88	$10,986		iei.14	$11,211	|UJ3	$11,441	$65.75	$11,674	$87.0?
			S*MEwt(' .'l*4®0 .	'	<*WW, ■awaNWi/i, t ; ■ l- j :■ ittw» aiwevn Tr a' -,: -.<■	»	-- ■ (MS.			$11,907	$88.43			-				tir.4 1		
							J			&:•?!>/		1.3^12 &		w irk'i.		
							*X ■■	-i-							i rsrr.		■T—.
														?7- -i!		
	028 | 9248		Pharmacist, Staff I	| 7/1/2008			$10,548	$46.62	ll0,764		$61.88	$10,983	$63.12	$11,207	$64.41	$11,430	$65.69
			panMe»rtnt	' mho1	moimt : IKtOSMShl	SUM. ■ owner., WHMWioliinj	.'ne	v \ OltM- V- '-r M,	.		•	$11,674	$87.09					• - \		Cl'-j		■*• eTci-'x*
														i.WJ-.,-		Mi-!£*■£-
							;jj	-							$ r		
												1 '-xrJT				-..k'Si'O
	028 1 9249		Pharmacist, PD	| 7/1/2008		1	$12,540	iTib?							i JYT £		4f
			**cwe>Ma ■ ,	' ; moo	MDwr SHMinWr-	;/*’«»■	i.,®4®1®7,. MMarwiaMnd	J	-'“■t'le - \	: <wr:-.	fe?-							L- ’S&rCX'		-7’^.		tv -		
							7			rj-si:				H” ■		
							'-*•* $			T				p ’ ■		- .
							■ ► - .,			,47‘ -		Z b??2's^		l£ riA ~	x		nJ* ■ ’
	029 | 9285		Counselor, Genette III	17/1/2008			$5,953	GHZSo	tt on		liiiA	«A 4<U	tflX-flfl		"HTC4	»4» 4 4^	
					•-19	$6,572	$37.77	$6,704		$3843	$6,838	$3930	$6,976	$4009	$7,115	$4039
					11’U	$7,258	$41:71	$7,402		JEJ	$7,552	$43.40	$7,703	$44.27	$7,656	$45.15
					K	$8,048	ia.25			‘J		-t. ■1				- •-■y’-' 1
	029 1 9287		Counselor, Genetic II	17/1/2008		14	$5,671				TOT	14,899		$6,oiy		i6.137	
						$6262	$35.90	:	8,388	I 38.70	$8413	<3743	$6,645	$88.19	$6,777	38.95
					IM#	$6,913	f»7i		7JJ50	4062	$7,191	$41.33	$7,336	$42.16	$7,480	I 4239
					«	$7,665	$44.06					5		f’SW.ti		
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
170
	Unk Cod*	TWe Coda	Title Nam	Effective Date	S T E P 3	1		2		3		4		6	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11 16		12 17		13 18		14 19		IS 20	
						21		22		23		24		2S	
						26		27							
						Hat&r						NMtftr		MaaA*	Hwfr.
$ A N F R A N C I S C 0	029	9288	Counselor, Genetic 1	7/1/2008	14	$5,154	$29.82	$5,257	13021	$5,381	$3031	$5,471	$31.44	$5578	$32 DO
			?“	> ■■ ■ ->	5 ’		>>1i	$5,888	$32.39	$5,803	3335	$5,919	IM02	$6,038	$34,70	$8,156	$35.38
					11.18	$6,281	$38.10	$6,407	3082	$6,535	I 37.56	$6,664	$38.30	$6,798	$39.07
					1«	$6,969	$40.05						•.-tfcirt		
	.029 [9313		Soda! Worker, Conical III	] 7/1/2008		M	$5,439	lil.26	$5,549	feTxiJ	$5,660	$3253	$5,772	mt?	$5,888	
			MtaeeMrftq* ~	1 MMNMMund'-:	. re Y'.-;	f'. ■ ■.. .’. .	M»WT .		«>1»	$6,006		$6,127	$35,21	$«,247	S3XW	$6,374	$36.63	$6,501	$3738
					11-18	$6,631	mii	$6,763	$3847	$6,897		$7,035	$40.43	$7,178	$4125
					U4»	$7,322	$42.08	$7,466	642JJ1	$7,616	$43,77	$7,769	$44JB6	$7,924	$45,54
					21-M	$8,082	$48.45	$8,246	$47.39	$8,411	$48,34				
	029	9314	Soda) Worker, Clinical II	7/1/2008	14	$5,056	$294)6	$5,157	$2944	$5,260	$3073	$5,364		$5,474	$31.46
			M-CV Curing	m ’	\7 X rW •JiatHW ?' ’ -•	m 'J 7J Yf J 3MHWMMV14	ni	L .. ' fi' 7 6n-c«e:	eo»’i:-, 'owior		MB	$5,582	$324)8	$5,692	$32.71	$5,806		$5,923	$34.04	$6,041	$34.72
					11-11	$6,161	$3541	$6,285	$38.12	$6,410	$3654	$6,539	$37.58	$6,669	$38.33
					IHt	$6,802	$39.09	$6,937	$3947	$7,077	$40.87	$7,218	$41.48	$7,364	$42.32
					2143	$7,512	$43.17	$7,659	$44.02	$7,814	$4451		: >:?.		
	029 |9315		Social Worker. Clinical I	7/1/2008	14	$4,794	$2^.55	$4,889	$28.10	$4,987		$5,086	$29.23	$5,187	$29.tfi
			mi pi		«-1«	55.293	$30.42	$5,397	$31.02	$5,504	$31.63	$5,815	$32.27	$5,752	$33.06
									.tiX-r t				•* TA .t		
							J J. Z>'				.		*T ,* . i		' -
							"■ L&				\\->r47?<		y x wi'		t L2'’A.
	029	9316	Social Worker It, Clinical PD	17/1/2008		1	i7,124	$4034		•'				*»		
			SriffOr evening	. MOliea -’(•	.	lXn*>. OMM ii', _■	■	oisaMr				T. ■-< Jt’.’								«:rasX
							J?		, 1 ;				Se i A' ler		
							। * s : '■*>*-						jt.v- •« '		
											» 4,,%. <				
	029	9341	Social Work Associate	7/1/2008	14	$3,878	$2229	$3,957	l&M	$4,033	isaJI	$4,115	this	$4,199	isiiw
			n*WBi«*ep/,r **MW MtH r	*200:;.. ‘ \ CMS. ' kx i	. .'aa5111;??... Jn«L.			$4,284	$24.62	$4,389	mn	$4,456	1 25.81	$4,543	$26.11	$4,635	I 2644
									t*>'1 <						
									' v						
									■■		; aj:		71.^ th		
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
	Link Coda	THfe Coda	TMeName	Effscttve Date	S T E P 8	1		2		3		4		6	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						16		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		28		24		25	
						26		27							
						■MMt#	rn<M^'7			IMW	‘HBtrtf..	imrt		Marti*	
s A N F R A N C 1 8 c 0	029	9342	Social Work Associate. Asst	7/1/2008		$3,560	$2048	$3,633		$3,704	$2139	$3,779	Fl-72	$3354	^16
			L ■ .P7^* -P^^v iv.v**0*1*' J,	* '<J \ j'jH (M0 J . . k-/mSum"’		•-M	$3,931	$2239	$4,011		$4,091	$2331	$4,171	$2337	$4354	$2445
											•'JHtS		lit		
									*v&.&						-TT’XU
									Vi&tii-						
	029 |0345		Chad Development Assoc	7/1/2008	M	$4,512	&Us	$4,602		$4,6$5	l&jos	$4,788	$2732	$4,884	$2837
			'	'	1 "■ •'-3,	'L. u...	, „-7y2		1-18	$4,982	$2833	$5,081	$2930	$5,182	429.78	$5388	$36.39	$5,392	$3039
					11-1<	$5,496	$31.60	$5,610	$3234	$5,721	$3238	$5336	$3334	$5,953	$3431
					U»17	$6,073	$34.90	$8,196	$3531		Jy ‘’4'4^ ixv				<4-J’ *U.'
	029 |9351		ChBd Ute Specialist ill	17/1/2008		M	$5388	$30.38	$5392		$5498	$3130	$5,610	$3$34	$5,721	$3238
					«-18	$5336	$3334	$5,953	$3431	$6,073	$34.90	$6,194	$3530	$6318	$3631
					1MS	$6A45	$3734	$6,572	$37.77	$6,704	$3833	$6338	$3930	$6,976	$4039
					M	$7,139	$41.03						f. /T ".. -		
	029	9352	Child Life Specialist II	1 7/1/2008		14	$4304	$27.61	$4,900	$28.16	$4,997	$£&.72	$5396	$2oi$	$5,201	$2$3&'
						$5,304	$3048	$5,408	$3138	$5,518	$31.71	$5,627	$3234	$5,740	$3239
					11-18	$5,855	$33.66	$5,970	$3431	$6,092	$35.01	$6314	$35.71	$6,335	$36.41
					18	$6,488	$3739		-ii&s-..		■’TfiT		3.4*1.		
	029 19353		Child Life Specialist 1	7/1/2008	14	$4,366	$25.09	$4,451	$2538	$4,540	$26.09	$4,630	$2631	$4,722	$27.14
					Ml	$4,816	$27.68	$4,912	$2833	$5,011	$2830	$5,112	$2938	$5313	$2938
					1M8	$5,316	$3035	$5,424	$31.17	$5331	$31.79	$5,643	$32.43	$5,756	$3338
					18	$5,902	$33.92								
	029 | 9392		Psyctometrist Sr.	1	7/1/2008	M	$4,006	$2332	$4,086	$2M8	$4,166	$21941	$4248	$2442	C4-334	.934 <M
			r ' ’ ■ * $	" 1'		►w'	’ >4.42 i "		’$4,510	-H5.82	$4,601		$4,693	$2397	$4367	$2^31
					1M8	$4382		$4,960	$2832	$5,079	S.W	$5,180	V0.7T	$5388	
					18	$5,410	$31.09								
	029	9393	Psychometrtst	7/1/2008	14	$3331	$1837	$3396		$3363	$1933	$3330	ii$^i	$3,497	
					848	$3,567	$3030	$3,640		$3,711	tt133	$3,786	$21.78	$3363	
	030 | 9383		Psychologist II	17/1/2008		14	$6,083	$3436	$6303		$6327		$6/456	;$$7.ra	$6384	
			■ ■ - ■' t ' ‘ 2 , ft		«48	$6,716		$6349		$6,986	$40.18,	$7,125	FPi96	$7370	Fl-78
					1MI	$7,410	^4232	$7,682	14338	$7,713	$44/33,	$7,670		$8,025	$Mtl2
					18	$8309	$47.re		W$®»		Itwri);				£ 4>
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
	Unk Code	Title Code	TMe Name	Effective Dato	8 T E P 3	1		2		3		4		5	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						16		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27							
						iij nt	HS3	MW	. a»v	■ttM?	HdiW '		: Haiti	HMNy	*H«W
s A N F R A N C i s c o	030	9384	Psychologist 1	7/1/2008	14	$5,526	E3EZ1	$5,638	$32.40	$5,751	$33X16	$5,864	$33.70	$5462	'$3448
			t>‘v*rsAr».*-4S4vr>'^.!w, i i.'ii.		Mt	$6,102	IMM	$0424	$35.77	$6,349	$3648	$6,475	$3741	$8,603	$37.95
					1MI	$6,737	is>a	$8,871	$3949	$7,009	$4028	$7,150	$41.00	$7491	$4140
					1t	$7,481	E33						i»t'—		
	031 10451		Therapist, Must	7/1/2008	M	$4,366		$4,451	$25.56	$4,540	$26.09	$4,630	$26.61	$4,722	$27.14
			■;<-?/	l-‘ '■ . - 1 - Ctl SiU		Mt	$4,816	Lii£3	$4,912	$28.23	$5,011	$28.80	$5,112	$29.38	$5,213	$2948
					1MI	$5,316	Liblil	$5,424	$31.17	$5,531	$31-79	$5,643	$32.43	$5,756	$33.08
					11	$5,902	L*M*1		7s,K X?						
	031	9485	Therapist, Recreation II	7/1/2008	14	$4,804	E3ZZ1	$4,900	$28.16	$4,997	$28.72	$5,096	$29.29	$5401	i2949
			II rJ7‘ । IM		Mt	$5,304	limi	$5,408	$31.08	$5,518	$31.71	$5,627	$3244	$5,740	$32.99
					11-10	$5,855	EHE3	$5,970	$34.31	$6,092	$35.01	$6,214	$35.71	$6,335	$36.41
					K	$6,488	E3EI		-,y;				■*K1		'CSl *'Z i
	031	9466	Therapist, Recreation 1	[ 7/1/2008		14	$4,386		$4,451	$25.58	$4,540	$26.09	$4,630	$26.61	34,722	$27.14
					Ml	$4,816	IW:1	$4,912	$28.23	$5,011	$2830	$5,112	$2948	$5413	$29,96
					11-11	$5,316	m	$5,424	$31;17	$5,531	$31.79	$5,843	$32.43	$5,756	$33.08
					1|	$5,902	LiLLJ		O				t’lisX.		
	031	9467	Therapist, Recreation, PD	7/1/2008	1	$5,552									* -r
	031	9471	Speech Pathologist, PD	7/1/2008	1	$8,824	EK’MI								
	031	9472	Pathologist, Speech, Sr	7/1/2008	14	$6,348	E3H	$6,473	$3740	$6,602	$3744	$6,736	$38.71	$6,870	$39148
			7. V1'WJt		Mf	$7,007		$7,148	$41.08	$7,289	$4169	$7,435	$42.73	$7,583	$4348
					«-W	$7,736	Ll^J	$7,891	$4546	$8,049	$4648	$8^11	$47.19	$8,373	$4A12
					n	$8,570	EEE3		■- J. *						* *
	031	9473	Pathologist, Speech	| 7/1/2008		14	$5,874	Eiild	$5,994	$34.45	$6,113	$36.13	$6,234	$3543	$8461	$wie
					Mt	$6,488	LiiAU	$6,617	$38.03	$6,749	$38.79	$6,885	$39l57	$7,023	$4046
					11-»	$7,164	lush	$7306	$41.98	$7,454	$42.84	$7,604	$43.70	$7,753	$44.56
					It	$7,931	LILEJ		ft J. >, <		•m -Ai—*.				1 A? —
	031 | 9474		Audiologist, Sr	7/1/2008	14	$6,817	ES2S3	$5,933	$34.10	$6,050	.^34.77.	$8,174	$36^48	l$84»5	$38.18
					Mt	$6,421	EEEB	$6,551	$3705	$6,682	$38.40	$6*816	$39.17	$6,961	$3946
					1M8	$7,091	E2E3	$7433	$4107	$7,376	$4249	$7,524	$4344	$7,673	$44.10
					It	$7,851	E233		-V.' Ji b;						m/K •
HX Appendix A Year 3 Effective July 1, 2008
173
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
	Unk Cotte	Tttto Cotte	TTtteMama	Eftedteo Dato	S T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						«		7		8		•		10	
						11 18		12 17		13 18		14 18		15 20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27							
									~HmiV	Vona*	>w	'■^BW			.Hocrir
s F	032	0006	Tecftnoloatet, Nuc Mod, Sr, PD	7/1/2006	1		$55.12						£		
			moooeiMia	*uo	vmm etMOHM	ten	<wmm "7*^^ -ft	M	M 0MSO .	. 'rn ,	MMM' Pbyoictet, Hoopttat Radtation	17/1/2008										•*		■ '	^-1
															
															
	106	8240			■n	8LL2J	Sa		tilMi	^^5	■H			11A2J	Hi iLixa
			f F ,	. t		■n	turn iiAia nun iiziu eeei iizu rno itmi kki										
					ESI EKE3 nmi E3E1 mizi	USE) EE31EUE3	rerxa										
					18	$8,834	$60,77								
	106	9241	Phyolctet, Aott Ht»p Rad	7/1/2006	M	$5,600	$32.70	$5,005	$33.36	$5,921	$34.03	$6,040	$34.71	$6,158	$3&30
			- * ' L :■		MB	$6,283	$38.11	$6,408	$38.83	$6,537	$37.57	$6,666	$38.31	$6,600	$39.06
					1VH	$6,936	$38.86	$7,075	$40.86	$7,216	$41.47	$7,362	$4231	$7,510	$43.18
					11	$7,686	^4417						<		
175
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
cn
	Link Code	Tttia Coda	TMteNams	Eftecttee Date	8 T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		13	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		27							
						IM*	Haw*	IMMO	How*	IfaHt*	HM*	MM	How*	MMk*	HMM*
D A V 1 s	027	6956	CytntechncfoglBt	7/1/2006	VA	85.502	$31.62	$5,812	$32.25	$5,724	$32.90	$5,838	$33.56	$5,956	$34.23
			aMHMBrtMW	tt*	wuvr WKNINtf	Utft - MWB VMM	MW? Otmi	■= *T4» .	ftWffi*		MS	0,074	$34.91	$6,196	$35.81	$6,320	$38.32	$6,446	$37.05	$5,575	$37.79
					11-1*	$6,707	$38.54	$6,841	09.31	$6,977	$40.10	$7,117	$40.90	$7759	$41.72
															
															
	027	8956	Scientist, CUn Lab, Par Diem	[7/1/2008		1	$8,202	$47.14								
			MMOEwaig^ „	U«	. M»M» WKMHVt	UM	Motor MfmwMMd ■	*140	o*oinr OrtM	na	f*												
															
															
															
	027 16907		Cytotochnotogtet, Sr. ^er Diem	17^/2008		1	$8,307	WW								
			MMHCMMng	D«0	owior ■saw	tua	Motor MHMMMn*	*100	QWW? STM ,	Motor												
															
															
															
	027	8998	Cytotechnotogfst, RD	17/1/2008		1	$7,551	$43.39								
			KM»6M|(	U.M	Motor HKMWt	. B«	MOW? nmimm	tim	Motor QvCM	ttm	.	0MTUM												
															
															
															
	027	9202	Physician Assistant Sr	J7/1/2008		14	$9,164	ISTSf	0,348	$53.72	$9,535	i!J4.A6	$9,725	$55.89	$9,920	$6>,01
			•MOMBwMg	tr.C	Motor WMSMtft	«M»	MXruOT MMOWWi tin nil	. ItM.	OMHOT OrtM	»7M	MOUtt		*-1<	$10,116	$58.15	$10,320	$50.31	$10527	$60.50	110,737	$61.71	$10,952	$62.94
						$11,171	$64.20	$11,395	$85.49	$11,623	$88.80	$11,855	$88.13	$12,092	$89.49
															
															
	027 |9203		Physician Assistant	17/1/2008		$4	$8,01	$4/88	$8,498	$0.44	$8,688	$49.81		$50.61		551.63
			SSWMiM	MM	MOtor OMCOOtM	MM	Motor SNMSWmMM	MM	Motor pn-o<	*tj»	www			$9,198	$52.88	$9382	$53 92	$9^70	$55.00	$9,761	$58.10	$9>67	$57.22
					IMS	$10,156	$5837	$10,369	09.53	$10^86	$60.72	$10,777	$61.94	$10,993	03.16
															
															
HX Appendix A Year $
effective July 1, 20G8
	Link Cotto	Title Code	TtttoMsme	Effectlvs Date	8 T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						8		7		8		9		10 .	
						11		12		13		14		19	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		26	
						26		27							
						MortNy		MwMy	Mowfr’	ifturtity	HraiV	MwitNy	Houriy		Hour^r
D V 1 S	027	9204	Physician Assistant, PD	7/1/2008	1	$9,766	$58.12								f-.
			e§S g f hi 1888 art s u hl mi						AS.						
															
															
															
	028 19248		Pharmacist, Sr.	7/1/2008	14	tl 1,498		$11,727	ifi7.40	$11,962	$^.75	$12,201	4?M2	$12,445	
					(-T	$12,694	$7^.96	$12,948	>74.4^						
	028 J9247		Pharmacist, Staff il	7/1/2008	14	$10,452	I&.07	$10,661		$10,875	&&.50	$11,092	$63.75	$11,314	$65.02
			8 6 6 S Ulf 3 § 8 '3 a & r • |. hl mi		tr	$11,540	$66.32	$11,771	$67.65						
															•> '4
															
															
	028	9248	Pharmacist Staff 1	| 7/1/2008		14	$9,502	$54.61	$9,692	$55.70	$9,886	1502	$10,084		$10,285	TO
			! I I l.il 3 3’s a s s & hl im		>7	$10,491	$60.29	$10,701	$81.50						-
															r
															
							- «'								t
	028 ।	9250	Pharmacist 11, Per Diem	| 7/1/2008		1	111,892	$68.&								,1.
			mMHEwae	/ t2*3	. , M60	M0UD7 Qfrci ,	■	roo . WW				5								
															
							.t »•								
									r- •’				- .. -• --		
	029 )9285		Counselor, Genetic III	| 7/1/2008		14	$5,145		$5748	$30 IftJ	. ts.w.	JBO.’a.J	<g xen			■ ■J:’’1!
			,.ur.,		;	,						>37.65	$5,794	$33.30	$5,910	$33.97	$6,029	$34.86	$6,149	$35.34
			„	* I	'	■ '		ins | $6,272		$38X5	$6,398	$36.rt	$6,526	$37.50	$6,656	$38.25	r$8,7B9	$39.02
	029 [9287		Counselor, Genetic II	| 7/1/2008		M J $4,678			$4,771	TOUi"	$4,867	$2^.97	$4,964	$26.53	$5,063	t&ib
			\ ’	-	t4 T *•-		hi I $5,184		$2968	$5,268	$30.2?	$5,373	$3038	$5,431	$31.50	$5,590	$32.1$
					ims] $5,702		$32.77	$5,816	$33.43	$5,932	$34.00	$6,051	$34.78	$6,172	$35.47
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
178
	Link Code	Title Code	Title Mama	Effective Date	S T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						6 .		7		6		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						16		17 ■		16		19		»	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27							
						MMMr	*"*	*-*	N<Mlp			ttMty	Mt	MM*	H«»e. *
D A V I S	029	9306	LCSW	7/1/2008		$8131	$35.81	$6555	$36.52	$6,482	$3715	$6,612	$38.00	$6,744	$36.78
			awMHEvMna • ■	k	ne	-owner SNMXMgtV .	.	_	owner ' wmmwmcm ,	.*im	m»w Orr« -. ■*	, , .	.>	. oaw		•-1&	$6,879	$39.54	$7,017	$40.33	$7,157	$41.13	$7,300	$41J»	$7,446	$42.79
						$7,595	$4365	$7,747	$44.52	$7,902	845.41	$8,060	$46.32	$8221	$4726
									A.						
															
	029 |9307		Social Worker 11	17/1/2008		1-A	$5,864	£255	*5,777	$3120	is,893	M6F	$6,011	|34.£B	$6,131	$3524
			MHXrMW '' '-r	O»	MSW*~ MMMWwMe i- ’	'.owner 6n4»'*’ . ./	- troO	-OWet			$8,254	£35.^	$6,379	$36.86	$6,506	$37.39	$6,637	$38.14	$6,769	$38.90
					11-58	$6,905	$39.68	$7,043	$40.48	$7,184	$4ijb	$7,327	$42.11	$7,474	$4^.06
											■A.				
															
	029	9308	Social Worker I	17/1/2008		1-4	$4,720		$4,815	t?7.&7	$4,911		$5,009	$28.76	$5,109	
			■MHMewiing	e.e '	• water - wmwmm* / ■	' **■** ' . M<n*>r MOOMM,	.	owner owca s' ‘	..	-. um ’ ■- ■ ’ mow			$5211	«9.9i	$5,316	$30 55	$5,422	$31.16	$5,530	$31.78	$5,641	£2.42
					11-tB	$5,754	$33.07	$5,669	$33.73	$5,988	$34.40	$6,106	$35.09	$6226	$35.79
															
															
	029 J 9309		Social Worker II, PD	17/1/2008		1	$7,274	TZEST								
			MHMftMMg' -S ■	*240	' ' MRter kmohv*	■ , _	. »w.	_ mow MHWWMkand	*_ ■	»l<0	.Mflter ooew 1 ' • '	tr» ‘ ’. tootxn 2												i
											1		' t -		
					'■				-				* •		
													■•># ■. *		
	029 |9310		Licensed CUn Soc Wkr, PD	[ 7/1/2008		1	ie^55									
			Mtratw** .	' tuto ,"	Matar MlMCMW*	>	' IMS	'.MOW MHWWMMnd ■ ■ /’	«1flO “	MWier 0»C*	' ..	. IMO .	10MW												
															
															
															
	029	9330	Community Svcs Case Mgr	17^1/2008			$3,640	w	$3,713		$3,788	ITi.tF	$3883	M20	$3341	$£•66
			,	:1'	t	J	'	•*		•-H	$4,019	$23.10	$4,100	$2156	$4,182	$24.03	$4185	$24.51	$4251	
					|MI	$4,438	$25.50	$4,526	$26X11	$4,617	$28.53	$4,709	W.07	$4404	izfjsi
	029	9331	Asst domrnuntty Svcs Case Mgr	[ 7/1/2008		M	$3,310	$19.02	&378	|li.4O	*3,44$	£4.79	$3^12	£0.l6	£.58i	
						$3,654	$21.00	$3,727	$21,42	t3^		$3,878	$22.29	$3,966	£2.73
					11-11	$4,034	$23.19	$4,115	$23.65	^4,<5?	$24.1?	$4181	$24.86	$4,367	$25.10
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
179
Link Code
029
0
V
S
TO* Coda
9345
029 19392
TO* Nam*
Chad Development Asaoc
Pcychometrtet, Sr.
029 (9383
030 [9383
MMVtewmg ”■	{
MWXl WMMnt.
Ckwa* - ~. ■
Psychologist
03qT93S4
Psychologist l‘
031 [9466
i,. -•* y , '.if ,s	. ,.
Therapist, Recreation i
r* ' • ..	• --	<
031 19469
Speech Pathlr, PO

031 [9471
' Speech Pathotogtst PO waweertm} V •*Wti***/;
0»<>* . '	.< ■■.'I1, ~
Effective
7/1/2008
*4561

*5,025
2
12
17 22
3
8
13
18

14
19
24
5 10 16
28
[7/1/2008
- W». 7 ,.U« ,	_
L;; JMI	feww.f
tMI
^548
*4,642
*5,126
IMO

| 7/1/2008 QTOWB ' ■ twnnr* IHOW
[7/1/2005
1 7/1Z2008
J>/l/200?
* ?■ "
. 17/1/2008
.'IM* .VPS
OWtJW
IMt
ti-ia

?5jM# ./
17/1/2008 7,*«»
...Jowxiw'-
*3,471 1^55
*3,832
*4,231
<3,156
*3,484
*3,847
16,985 *7,712 *8,515 *6,350 *7,011 *7,741 *4,368 *4,823 *5,324 *»,514
'5552 ^<32
*20.02
14435" w
BIS
TO ra
*3,540
'*3^09
*4316
*3,219
*3,554
*3,923
*7,125
*7,867
*8.585
*6,477
*7,152 *7,896 *4,455 *4,919 *5,431
3®326
TO
*4,402
TO
<40.96
*26.81' 1*28.27 ' W'



ISTiT
*3,967
*3,283
*3,625
*4,002
*7,268
*8,024
*8,859
*6,607 *7,295 *8,054
*4.544
*2721
W»
W
•W5E ~ 20.83 "*2300
TH"t7 ?2 ,17
15
*4330
*5,333
*5,888
*4,057

*3,349
*3,697
HU'i:
*4,082
*7,413
*8,185
*9,036
*6,739
*7,440
*8,215
*4,635
*5,118
1S.6SD

OM *5,439 084 <6.006 [t17 *3,757
L37
*4,148
*4,580
Ii 9.2^ T5W
*2125
*3,771
~M48 ~*4J64
or ir3<
.83
<7,561
*8.346
*9,217
*6,874
*28.31
TO
' *47 il
<7?589
<8,379 <4,726 loiao *5,763
rar k®
□f


IkfaJiWii
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
180
	Link Cod*	Tide Cod*	TttlaNaim	Effective Data	CO H 111 ft CO -	1		2		3		4		5	
						«		7 .		8		9		16	
						_ 11		12		13		14		15	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24 -		28	
						28		27							
						MUMMtr	How*	HmM*	Mow*	IM*		MM*	Hotf*	HMMy	Mow*r
D A V I S	031	9472	PatbotoflM, Speech, Sr	7/1Z2008		$6,347	$36.48	$6,474	$37.21	$6,604	$37.95	$6,736	$38.71	$6,871	$39.49
			- . - <			17,008	$40.28	$7,148	tei.oe	*7291	tei^o	$7,437	$42>4	$7,586	$4ite
						$7,737	$44.47	$7,892	$45.36	$6,050	$46.26	$8^11	$47.19	$8,375	$48.te
	031 19473		Pathologist, Speech	17/1/2005		M	i5,770	$3^.18	$5,866	tei'.Sa	$6,003	tel&)	$6,124	M.19	$6,246	$35.90
			MMMBwk*	*2X0 , ■ M01AT ‘ IHMMUjH	* JTM	MOUiT ■MHWWhWM . . {	.4' ,«txn.	MtW QfrWr	"	’ »?jo.	' Meiai			$6,371	$36.61	$6,498	$37.35	$8,628	$38.09	$6,761	$3886	$6,896	$39.83
					1M8	$7,034	$40.43	$7,175	$41.23	$7,318	$42.06	$7,465	$42.90	$7,614	$43.76
															
													J -'		
	031 19474		AudMoglst, Sr	7/1/2008	1-S	$5,886	$3333	$6,004	&4.51	$8,124	Mio	$6,247		$6,372	
			■ *		8-10	$6,499	$37.35	$6,629	$38.10	$6,762	$38.88	$6,897	$39.64	$7,035	$40.43
					11-18	$7,175	$41.24	$7,319	Ite.tB	$7,465	$42.90	$7,615	$4178	$7,767	$44.64
	031 19475		Aud iotog Eat	7/1/2008	1-6	$4,905	$&19	$5,003	ite.H	$5,103	iHte	$5,206	shi2	$5,310	$3ite
			”... . • — . •"* '		t-11	$5,416	$31.13	$5,524	tei .to	$5,635	$32.38	$5,747	$33.03	$5,862	te3.69
					IMS	$5,980	$34.37	$6,099	$35.05	$6221	$35.75	$6,346	fe6.4?	$6,472	$37.20
	031 [9498		Therapist, Occupational II	J 7/1/2008			$6,380	'ISEte'	$6,487		&617	$38.03	$6,749	tei'79	$6,884	139.58
			a*oe ew*a	■',	awuw ".Mirner ' IWKWMtant'	*140	- OMMftr., fthCM .	..	....	- ' • _ troo ‘		8-18	$7,022	$40.36	$7,182	$41.18	$7,306	$41.09	$7,452	$42,83	$7,801	$43.68
					11-18	$7,753	$44.56	$7,908	$45.45	$8,066	$46.36	$8,227	$47.28	$8,392	$48.23
															
															A <'4 ' . £
	031 |9499		Therapist. Occupational 1	7/1/2008	1-5	fc, 762		$5,897		$8,015	144.57	$61136	$36 26	$6,258	M.S?
			taMMBwHlna	tUO	y	MOW MHSIW >	UM	_. '	'mow MUMWMM	.*140	MM*7 Oivo* *.-.	’ *"	*m# ■ ’■ mwu			$8,384	$36.69	$6,511	$37.42	$6,642	3B.li	$6,774	$te.93	$8,910	$39.71
					11-11	$7,048	$40.51	$7,189	$41.32	$7,333	142.14	$7,479	$42.99	$7,629	$43.64
													I - .		
															
	031 19500		Occupational Therapist, PD	17/1/2008		1	$8,326	SiTte								
			e*o*e«<**	-	.. «.« -	swier. SNMowot, ■ - f	‘ . ***6 „	owner Mtcewaakand	, 1 |ia> .	MO1W twa.	M	- m										* ■'		, t.
									j •' ►						
													1 L.	»		t i *
															7 -
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
Link Code	TBie Cod*	TMbHmm	Effective Date	a T E p 8	1		2		3		4		5	
					6 -		7		8		9		10	
					11		12		13		14		15	
					18		17		IB		19		20	
					21		22		23*		24		25	
					28		27							
								-	■mdlj	.HtwrtL	IMW		MMW	
032	9003	Technologist, Nuc Med, Sr	7/1/2008	f-1	17,176	$4154	$7,319	$42.07	$7,466	$42.91	$7,615	$43.77	$7,767	$44.64
		MMMtwnkig •-	1240	1 MOW HHWWiilrl ,.1	;■ ■	|t»> TMmar OCelv-- ,-f- - — f>	.	' - '■ OTBKB			$7,923	±4M3	$8,081	*4844	$8,243	$47,37	$8,408	$4&32	$6,576	to
				1M8	$8,747		$8,922	$61.28	$9,101	ta.30	$0,283	$53.35	$9/468	^4.4*
												4		/ 3 - f /
														,X'J.?■
032 |9004		Technologist, Nuclear Med	| 7/1/20*8			$6295	biJa	$M2’	38.90	$6,549		$6,680		$M14	$39.16
		7^*1* **■■!" •<£■'*4 * *>»	...	.▼.,.. mwruw	/-siowr^, ihiearwMwd !r' ' •	>n« ;	now CMM	J. (	OTUWn			$6,950	$36-94	$7,089	40.74	$7,231	41.56	$7,375		$7,523	$43.23
					$7,673	|M.f9	$7,827	44.98	$7,983	I4&88	$8,143		$8,306	$47.73
												- „		
						- 1.				i -±r M				
032 19006		TechnotaM, Nuc Med, Sr, PD	7/1/2008	f	$8,083			1- t				■' , ■’-■		
		•ftarawn	*■ ” * -imo ,_v owibt SMUMMgH J " -	-SMS	. MOVOr. wooeyinin	* r**- "'-.'./U'	-• owner'								'i’ .				
						’ '	4'						11 ”		■ =>	Z|
								I -X , '		-		7 ’		
												- v ‘w		AljJ ' s_.1
106 ] 9240		Physicist. Hospital Radtatton		7/1/2008	14	$5,806	i&Jb1	$5,922	iiW	$6,040	&4.71	te,161	fciUi	$6,284	bd.12
		”>5 ." '>■ ? ’ •	1	'■ -	'■ - -)r'- \ ■> . : A	■' ■- = V - 'V		frit	$6,410	$36,64	$6,538	$37.58	$6,669	$3833	$6,802		$6,938	$39.68
				11-18	$7,077	$40.67	$7,219	$41.49	$7,363	^42.32	$7,510	$43.16	$7,661	$44.03
106	9241	Physicist. Aest Hosp Rad	|	7/1/2008	M	$4,838	127.81	$4,935	TO	$5,034	wgjt.oa	$5,134	$29.51	$5237	hi.l6
		tVl’” rf'1' * %"’"j *	11 *’ ..- ■ ,J* -	. K.	tfi ‘t*’? J',‘	- *	'	.—is ■' , " *'	"		Mi	$5,342	girt	$5,449	$31 31	$5,557	$3134	$5,669	$&&	$5,782	$33.23
				1V19	$5,896	$33,89	$6,016	*34^7	$6,136	$3d£d	$6,259	$36.07	$6384	$36.66
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
182
	Unk Coda	Title Code	Title Name		S T £ P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		18	
				LI MUUIV Date		18		17,		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		27							
						BMNy	| NMV^	MuUtflj	:■ Haute	MunHj			Haete		Mate
L O S A N G E L E $	UCLA														
	026	5421	Dietroan, PD	07/01/08		$5,537	WW	$6,461	537d3						
	026	5428	Dietitian 1	07/01/08	14	$4,262		(4,367	fe.io	$4,454	25.50	$4,545		$4,635	
			ft-	' *	'»?	’	1	* x		M8	$4,728	$27.17	$4,822	$27,71	$4,919	$28.27	$5,016	$28.83	$5,117	$29.41
					11-11	$5,220	$30.00	$5,324	$30.60	$5,431	$3141	$5,537	$3182	$5,647	$32.46
	027	8938	ictenttat $pec,6in Lab,Sr	107/01/08		14	$6,076		$6,291	i3ti.1t>	$8,504	$37.38	$6,717	Mid	$6,930	
			*t*	'*-'V**7 5, _k *	■> *4 5)	. w r» ■J*''-'**	** *■		k1l	$7,144	$41.0#	$7,357	$4278	$7,570	$43.51	$7,784	$44.73	$7,943	$45.65
	027 [6039		Scientist Spedalls&l Lab	107/01/08		14	$5,801	■5537	$6,004	$34.51	$6,208		$6,412	$id.6$	$6,615	
			MKXfEvinkv	f <■	t2,M	MW MKMM0* \ j ' •' ’	. MW ■' Manor. MBtetWMteal'.n»'\ OlK»	‘ •’ 't.,	,	.	MKS1CT		«-1»	$6,819	$39.19	$7,022	$40.38	$7^26	$41.53	$7,429	$42.to	$7,581	$4357
															
											i				-
															
	027 1 8940		Scientist Clinical Lab	07/01/08	14	(5,525	fe<75	$5,719	$32.87	$5,912	$33.$8	$6,106	$35.09	$6,300	$36.20
			6’8 'fe H’J Ill Uh		^11	$6,493	$37.32	$6,688	$38.44	$6,882	$39.56	$7,076	$40.68	$7,221	$41,50
															*
															
									-	■ s		V				
	027 1 8954		CytotechnoloaisL Senior	07/01/08	14	$6,029	(34.65	$6,151	$35.$5	$6,274	M.od	$8,400	$3878	$6,527	
			shmwsvw*^ r-	v(-'e«i»r •»a»w>t	.-.’’L1. M“ r'iJ, oww MMMFWWM	. n«	’ /"• ■ oiK>n ~‘x..A.‘t. .	• -mowt		8-10	$6,657	$38.26	$6,791	$39.03	$6,927	$39.81	$7,064	$40.60	$7,207	w
					11*16	$7,350	$42.24	$7,498	$4349	$7,647	$4395	$7,797	$44.61	$7,953	$45.71
							1	«■		-		’ ' >		1		
															
	027	8955	Cytotechnolonist	107/01/08		14	$5,478	$31.48	$5,587	$$2.11	$5,699	(ii75	$5,812	3340	$5,928	$34.07
			■	U2S ;	; MOW' ' r *'	’•jww; MOaiWeaert	«<o ,	”«• 4	L' L Cioio?	MflUO?			$6,047	$34.75	$6,168		$6792	$36.18	$6,417	36.88	M.546	$37.02
					11-18	$6,676	$3837	$6,810	$39.14	$6,946	$39.92	$7,084	140.71	$7225	$41.52
											4				
															
	027	8956	SdentiatCUn Lab.Per Diem	07/01/08	14	$7,454		$8,386	Mid						
			KMarawae ♦’,;	«r»	twtmr NMM«^	\	/•!* eefwwMwjiii-’,<\. -v’'1’ ,<™	<•	‘‘ . ■*	?naoi) .:i owtor ■										Ifl i		
															5
															illliM
									X	,				LU		JhilB
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
	Link Cod*	Title Code	710* Mame	Efhcthm Date	8 T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						a		7		8		9		10	
						ii 18		12 17		13 IS		14 19		15 20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27							
						Muinti	Hen*		♦Murty	noMMy				IM*	KOsMfr
L 0 s A N G E L E 8	027	895/	sdttntM.CUn LabZppranUce	07/01/08	14	83,838	"EiSe	$3,917	U2.51	$3,995	UJ.w	$4,076	123.42	$4,155	Wb?
			J	■ z	A	‘	-		o-n	$4239	$2436	$4,324	$24.85	$4,411	$25.35	$4,705	$27.04	$4,799	$27.58
	027	8997	Cytotochnokjgtei, Sr, Per Diem	107/01/08		r	$8,697	W.ad								
			*119	* *440	own? MWHM	m	m 0ff4» • *	“	'	HOM	'M01JU? ’												
															
															
							— -		-						■
	027	8998	CytatechnoloaM, Per Diem	07/01/08	i	$7,891	$45.35								
			MOiBwto*	-	'■ UffWF MOfWoMHI	.	no	fl* OrvCrf	8UL00	MC1AT												
															
															
															
	027 19202		Phyetdan AedetenL Senior	07/01/08	f-0	$7,905	645.43	$8,063	$46.34	$8,225	$4727	$8,389	$4821	$8,557	$49.18
			liii SHI Ill		•-M	$8,728	$50.16	$8,904	$51.17	$9,081	$52.19	$9762	$53.23	$9,448	$54.30
					11-11	$9,636	$65.38	$9,829	856.49	$10,026	$57.82	$10,226	$68.77	$10,430	$50.95
															
															
	027	9203	Pftyaictan Awt	07/01/08	14	$7,188	141-31	$7,331	"$42,13	$7,479	$42.9$	$7,628	$43.84	$7,780	$44.71
			cub	mmw* WW*W	fun •	MAM* MNMmwHiui j	K> _	tun1 ’ rwm*		IL	$7,936 $8,761	$45.61 $50.36	$6,094 $8,937	846.52 $51.38	$8,256 $9,116	$47.45 $52.39	$8,422 $9,299	$48.40 $53.44	98,500 $9/486	$49.37 $54.51
															
										" .. .. 1		■■■		■■■_' ~		..-■
	028 19246		PharmacM, Sr	07/01/08		$10,438	$69.99	$10,855	$82 39	$11,072	$63.63	$11,294	$64.91	$11,520	$66-21
			MfEwflg	*2_n	’* MDWT tMMffNpt	* '4WW7 OMtMttofK	*U}0	MJOUOT oon	flioo	MUDt		o-w	$11,750	$67.53	811.984	88838	$12,225	$70.26	$12,470	$71.87	$12,719	$73.10
					♦1	$12,974	$74.56								
															
															
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
E
	Link Code	Title Code	Title Name	Effective Date	ft T E P 8	1		2		3		4		8	
						ft		1		ft		ft		1ft	
						11		12		13		14		13	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		27							
						Mir	Hata^r			-Uldl)	Hourly	Uj il»		Mort*	
L 0 a A N G E L E 5	028	0247	Pharmacist, Staff II	07/01/08	■m	$10,438	$59.99	$10,855	$62 39	$11,072	$63.63	$11,294	$64.91	$11,520	$66.21
			WMMrtig	P»	MOW MM	MAW MMIMM	*1M	0MW O^CM	MOM	OMKBT		Ml	$11,750	$67.53	$11,984	$88.88	$12,225	870.28	$12,470	$71.67	$12,719	$73.10
					t<	$12,974	$74.56								
															
															
	028 19248		m**	« -	i rnannactsi* stan 1	07/01/08	44	$9,785	$5624	$10,176	$5848	$10,380	$59.68	$10,588	$80.85	$10,800	$62.07
			WH»ew*n	Ris	- ovnu MM	0MUM 11M	MOOM OrkCM	IWJ»	MOW		l-tfl	$11,015	$63.30	$11,235	$64.57	$11,461	$66.87	$11,691	$87.19	$11,924	$68.53
					11	$12,162	$89.90								
															
															
	028	9249	Pharmacist, Par Diam	07/01/08	1	$12,921	t74.id								
			8 8 8 £ f H i UH Id im												
															
															
															
	029	0285	Counselor, Genetic III	07/01/08	14	$6,360	$3855	$6,487	$3728	$6,615	$36.02	$8,749	$36.79	$6,883	$3956
					Ml	$7,021	$40.35	$7,162	$41.16	$7,305	$4198	$7,451	$4282	$7,600	$43.68
					11-11	$7,752	$44.55	$7,907	$45.44	$8,065	$46.35	$8,223	$47.28	$8,388	$48.21
	029 (9267		Counselor, Genetic «	07/01/08	14	$5,782	$33.23	$5,697	$33.89	$6,015	$34.57	$6,135	$35.26	$6,259	$35.97
						$6,384	$36.69	$6,511	$37.42	$6,642	$38.17	$8,774	$38.93	$6,910	$39.71
					1M1	$7,049	$40,51	$7,190	$41.32	$7,332	$42.14	$7,477	$42.97	$7,626	$43.83
	029	9288	Counselor, Genetic 1	07/01/08	$4	$5,152	$29.61	$5,255	$3020	$5,361	$30.81	$5,467	$31.42	$5577	$32.05
						$5,688	$32.00	$5,801	$33.34	$5,918	$34.01	$6,036	$34.89	$6,158	$35.39
					11-11	$6,280	$36.09	$6,407	$38.82	$6,534	$37.55	$6,662	$38.29	$6,796	$39.08
	029	9289	Counselor, Genetics, Per Diem	07/01/08	14	$5,537	$31.82	$6,460	$37.13						
	029	9313	Social Worker, Clinical III	07/01/08	14	$5,703	$32.77	$5,817	$33.43	$5,934	$34.10	$6,052	$34.78	$8,174	$35.48
					Mt	$6^98	$38.19	$8,423	$36.82	$6,552	$37.68	$6,683	$38.41	$8316	$39.17
	029	9314	Social Worker, Clinical II	07/01/08	M	$5,246	$30.15	$6,350	$30.75	$5,457	$31.36	$5,567	$31.99	$6,678	$32:63
					Ml	$5,791	$33.28	$5,907	$33,85	$8,025	$34.63	$8,145	$35.32	$8369	$38.03
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
185
	Unk Ox*	Title Cbdt	Tltto Name	Effective CMS	8 T E P 8	1		2		3		4		5	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		27							
						MmA*		itadMy	few*	ifafe	llcur*		few*		How*
L O s N G E L E 5	KEI EEE		Social Woitar, CMcal. 1	07/01/08	14	$4,194	$24.10	$4,380	825.17	$4,473	$25.71	$4,567	$2624	$4,680	$26.78
			aMMHEMUm	na	no fit	na MOTWWri	m	na OHM	HMO	MJttflT		8-7	$4,753	$27.32	$4,846	$27.65						
															
															
															
	029	9316	Social Worker 11, CHnfcal PO	07/01/08	14	$5,722	$3238	$7,383	642.43						
			MOf&Mftg	mt	MOtXJT W«	Motor Mt-DffWMMrf ♦.	L -	na	na CMC*	|tow	Motor												
															
											p				
															
	029	9317	ChOd Devetopnwnt Assoc. Sr.	07/01/08	14	$4,705	$27.04	$4,799	$27.58	$4,895	$28.13	$4,994	$28.70	$5,093	$20.27
			*		m	$5,194	$28.85	$5,298	$30.45	65,404	$31.06	$5,512	$31.88	$5,624	53232
					ivw	$5,735	$32.96	$5,850	$33.62	$5,966	$34.29	$6,087	$34.98	$6,208	$36.68
	029	9341	Social Wort Associate	07/01/08	14	<3,785	$21.75	$3,859	<22.18	$3,936	<22.62	$4,016	$23.06	$4,096	
			§ g ■ h" J J«« hl llh			$4,178	$24.01	$4,261	$24.49	64,347	$24.06	$4,434	$25.48	$4,522	$25.99
					11-11	$4,613	$26.51	$4,705	$27.04	$4,799	$2758	$4,895	$28.13	$4,993	$28.69
															
															
	029 19342		Social Work Associate. Asst	07/01/08	14	$3,569	$20.51	$3,640	$20.92	63,711	$21.33	$3,786	$21.76	$3,863	$22.20
			lb S!< j ■ hl		8-ta	$3,939	$22.64	$4,018	$23.09	$4,098	$23.55	$4,181	$2403	$4,265-	$24.51
					11-11	$4,350	$25.00	$4,437	625.50	$4,626	$2601	$4,616	$26.63	$4,709	$27.06
					—-						■ -		—		L^—	J
			"Wrk-4^	-	"	S5 •	™				— _		—		- —				
	029 19345		ChM Development Assoc	1	07/01/08	14	$4,277	$24.68	$4,362	$25.07	64,449	$25.57	$4,538	$26.08	$4,630	$26.61
			■ ' -* 1		•-1#	$4,722	$27.14	$4,816	$27.68	$4,914	$28.24	$5,011	$28.80	$5,112	$29.38
						$5,213	$29.96	$5,317	$30.56	$6,424	$31.17	$5533	$31.60	$5,644	$32.44
	029 19352		CNM Life Specialist 11	|	07/01/08	14	$4,705	$27.04	$4,799	$27.58	$4,895	$28.13	$4,994	$28.70	$5,093	$2927
					•41	$5,194	$29.85	$5,296	$30.45	$6,404	$31.06	$5,512	$31.88	$5,624	$32.32
					IMS	$5,735	632.96	KJBD	$33 62	$6,988	$3429	$8,087	$34.98	$«L206	$35.68
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1t 2008
CD
	Unk	Title Cote	TMeName	Effective M*	8 T e p s	1		2		3		4		5	
						6		7		*		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						18		17		1*		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27							
						MUlJ»	HMriy	■Mt*	Hourly	liaise	Hone	{Boutte	Mandy	tfMtte	Mame
L O S A N G E L E S	029	9353	ChM Life specfeltet I	07/01/08	M	*4,277	*24.58	$4362	*25.07	*4X49	$25.57	*4.538	*26.08	*4,630	*26.81
					MB	*4.722	*27.14	*4,816	$27.88	*4,914	*28-24	$5,011	$28.80	*5,112	$29.38
					1MB	$5,213	$29.96	*5,317	$30.66	*5.424	*31.17	$5,533	$31.80	$5,644	$32.44
	029 19392		Psychometrtst, Sr	07/01/08	$4	*3.785	*21.75	$3,859	*22.18	$3,938	$22.63	*4,016	$2308	$4,096	$23.54
					MB	$4,178	$24.01	$4,281	*24.49	$4,347	*24.08	$4,434	(25.48	$4,522	$25.99
					IMf	*4.613	*26.51	$4,705	$27.04	$4,799	$27.58	(4,893	(28.12	*4,991	$28.88
	029	9393	Psychometrtst	07/01/08	M	*3.569	*20.51	*3.840	$2082	*3,711	$21.33	*3,788	(21.78	*3.883	$22.20
			atawatewwa	ua	wiw M*MMgn	MJ»	OMtm MMWatad	la	<a DtVCStt	m		MB	*3.939	*22.64	*4,018	$23.09	$4,098	$23.55	$4,181	$24.03	$4,265	$24.51
					1MB	*4.350	$26.00	$4,437	$25.50	$4,526	*26.01	$4,614	$26.52	$4,707	$27.05
															
															
	030 1 9383		Psychologist II	07/01/08	14	$6,930	$3983	$7,070	$40.63	*7,211	*41.44	*7,355	$42.27	$7,503	*43.12
			r«	n MHMWMwd	m	na a»cta	'	wx	mnm		MB	*7.653	$43.98	$7,806	$44.86	*7,962	*45.76	(8,121	$48.67	$8,282	*47.60
					1MB	*8,449	$48.56	$8,618	*49.53	$8,790	*50.52	$8,963	$51.51	$9,142	<52.54
															
															
	030	9384	Psychologist 1	07/01/08	VI	*6.302	$36.22	*6,428	*38.94	$6,556	$37.68	$6,687	158.43	*6,621	(39 JO
			MWWBarta).	ra	' n a*	m IMMBWWM	v 0*0*	tltt	, OT0MW		MB	*6.958	*39.99	*7,096	$40.78	$7,238	*41.60	$7,383	(42.43	*7,531	*43.28
					BMf	$7,682	*44.15	*7,835	*45.03	$7,992	$45.93	$8,148	$46.83	*6/311	*47.77
															
															
	030	9385	Psychologist, |, Per Diem	|	07/01/08	V*	$5,537	$31.82	$6,460	*37.13						
			»M»ew»)	<■	<» MUMtfeM	<a	M ■MHMWMUntf'	ra	• -ra' O-Cta	p»	MttlllM												
															
															
															
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
187
	Link Coda	Title Coda	TttteNanw		8 T E P 8	1		2		3		4		5	
						6		7		«		9 .		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
				Date		16		17		18.		18		20	
						>1		22		23		24		26	
						28		27							
								Mssft*	Hh>*	IMty	MW*	N$«t		■BS0*	Hwy
L 0 8 N G E L E 8	030	0386	Payctatogist, II, Par Dtan	07/01/08	v2	$6,091	$35.01	$7,752	$44.55						
			‘ "1 III UH								' u.				» - .
															- ,
															
													->		
	031	9461	Therapist. Mode	07/01108	14	$3,569	$20.51	$3,640	820.92	$3,711	$21.33	$3,788	$21.76		0,^0
					MS	$3,939	$22.64	$4,018	$23.09	$4,096	$23.55	$4,181	$24.03	$4465	R441
					IMS	$4,350	$26.00	$4,437	$2560	$4,526	$26X11	$4514	$28,62	$4,707	827.05
	031 |M64		Therapist, Physical, Spec Duty												
	E31EZ3		Therapist, Recreation 1)	07/01/08	M	$5,705	$32.79	$5,819	$33.44	$5,935	$34.11	$6,053	$34.79	$8,175	$3649
			MUMMndfl	-	tiff MIMMft	I4JXI	MOOT Marwwni '. 1	, , aw . mqw OHM .	m	ia		1-18	$6,299	$3640	$6,424	$36.92	$6,563	$37.88	$6,685	$38.42	$8,817	$39.18
					IMS	$6,956	$3997	$7,094	$40.77	$7435	$41.58	$7378	$42.40	$7,525	$4345
															
															
	031	9486	Therapist, Recreation 1	07/01/06	^4	$5498	$90.45	$6,403	831.05	$5,512	$31.68	$5,622	$3241	$5,735	$32.96
			MMKBw*g •	J B.K i MBW MHMMHMH ‘ ~ '	. MW . ■ -wwat HWWMnl '	Mw‘	.‘MOW WM ~	<■ ‘	,’M		MS	$5,848	$3341	$5,966	834.29	$8,085	$34A7	$6307	$35.67	$6332	$38.39
					IMS	$8,457	$37.11	$6,588	$3786	$6,718	$38.61	$8X»0	$3947	$6,987	$40.16
													]		
						-									
	031	9489	Speech Psthofogist, Sr, PD	07/01/08		$7,028	$40.39	$8,860	$60.92						
	031	9472	Patboloqisi. Speech, Sr	07/01/08	M	$6,744	$38.78	$6380	^3&J54	$7,017	$40.33	$7,157		$7401	$4196
					a-te	X744K						•re		L ‘	
			, -		IMfl	$8422	$4726	$8485	$48.19	$8454	$49.15	$6721	$50.12	$8£05	$S1.12
	031 19473		Pathologist, Speech	07/01/08	M	$6490	TOT	$M17	$38.88	$6446	$iktI2	$6,676	$3^37	$6A1O	839.14
					S-M	$6,948	$39.82	$7,085	840.72	$7726	$41,53	87,371	$42,36	$7,619	$4341
					IMB	$7,688	$44.07	$7421	$4496	$7478	$4546	$8,136	$46.75	$8497	$47j69
	031	9474	AudWotilst. Sr	07/01/08	14	$8,744	$38.78	$W	$39.64	$7417	$40.33	87,167	$41.13	$7401	$4148
					MS	$7446	$42.79	$7495	$43.65	$7,746	$44i32	87401	$4641	$8460	$46.32
					IMS	$8422	$4725	$8485	$48.19	$8^64	$49,16	88,721	860,1$	W96	
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
CD OJ
	Link Cod*	Tttt* Cod*	TMbMkm	Effective Ost*	S T E P S	1		2		3		4		8	
						8		7		8		8		10	
						11		12		13		14		16	
						18		17 .		18		19		. 20	
						21		22		23		24		26	
						26		27							
						■me*			Mv*	Ml*	MM*	MnO*	Mat	r-*	
L O s A N G E L E S	031	9475		07/01/06	M	88290	$38.15	SM17	$3688	$6,546	$37.62	$6,678	$38.37	$6310	139.14
					M*	$6,946	$30.92	$7,085	$40.72	$7226	$41.53	$7,371	$42J8	$7,519	$4321
						$7,668	$44.07	$7,821	$44.96	$7,978	$4585	$8,135	$48.75	$8397	$47.69
	031 19490		TherapM, Occupa.Par Diem, 11	07/D1ID8	M	$8,306	$47.74	$9229	$53.04						
			•WfCwWfl	M	M M -	CM MuarwMkM —“■ -1.,	newt QKtf	■	M												
															
							- - —		, ” — • -						
															►
	031 19491		TherapM, Occupa, Per Diem 1	07/01/08	M	$7,383	$42.43	$8,306	$47,74						
			MOiBwftiQ	m	n' MOII^	IB	J r» ' |U»	01JDW1 tk»4M	Ml	. .	M												
															
															
															
	031 |9498		Therapiet, Occupational II	07/01/08	14	$5371	$33.74	$6,076	$34.82	$6,197	$35.62	$6,321	$36.33	$6,448	^37.06
			momcmi**	tut	Mew n*a*M*t	- mm	mow hmmwmmm	mi	mow Once .	n	m			$6377	$3730	$6,708	$38.56	$6,643	$39.33	$6,981	$40.12	$7,119	$40.91
															
													-	> r		
															
	031 |9499		TherapM, Occupational I	| 07/01/00			$5,405	$31.08	$5,592	$32.14	$5,703	$32.77	$5,817	$33.43		
			^Marew*v	cue	Mew MwriM* '	km	' ■	■ mow —tow W0 Muri	«uo	Mte? OrC*	, , ‘	m '												
															
															
															
	032 |90Q3		TechnotogM, Nuclear Med, Sr	|	07/01/08	$4	$7,000	$4023	$7,139	$41.03	$7282	^41.85	$7,428	$42.88	$7376	$43.54
			MMaawM	eus	. *m*mm	tun	mow mmmwmmm	two	Mew tM*	»10M	‘	’ MMM		M»	$7,727	$44.41	$7,882	$4530	$8,041	$4821	$83)1	$47.13	$8384	$48.07
					IMS	$8,531	$49.03	$8,703	$60.02	$8377	$51.02	$9,061	$52.02	$9333	$53.06
															
															
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
189
	Link Coda	me Code	Tide Name	Effective Me	8 T E P 8	1		2		3		4		5	
						6		7		8		9		10	
						11 16		12 17		13 18		14 19		15 a	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27							
						MotitNy	Hourly	Mort*	. HMf^f	MortNy	Nouriy		MmiV	MMM	‘ HMN01
L 0 8 A N 0 E L E 8	032	9004	Tectmdlootet, Nuctear Medicine	07/01/08	$4	$6,276	$36.07	$6,401	$36.79	$6,528	$37.52	$6,859	$38.27	$6,793	$39.04
			e « e 8 a aa 8 s x a g hl UH			66,929	$39.82	$7,068	$40.62	$7,209	$41.43	$7,353	$4226	$7,499	$43.10
					H-11	$7,851	$43.97	$7,804	$44.86	$7,959	$45.74	$8,119	$48.66	$8,281	$47.59
															
															
	032 19005		TechnotoaMNuct Med. Trainee												
			HI. pi a 88 = ‘still -Ill												
															
															
															
	032	9006	Techno*ogM.Nuc Med.Sr.Per 01	07/01/08	1-2	$6,306	$47.74	$9,048	$63.04						
			MHMKaMO	ua	Mier h .	KDQ	M0V07 r———i—	ton	mow? *1000	OlttWO												
															
															
															
	032	9009	Yedmolook Nuc Med, PD	107/01/08		1-2	$7,383	$42.43	$8,306	U77T						
			MWMrt	*UB	Mier MMMNer	MO	' MWT neoeWMM	■ a*	mwt 9H»	*1040	MM												
															
													-		
															
	035 18982		OrthotfW, Sr	|	07/01/08	1-4	$5,599	04.16	$5,711	$32.62	$5,826	$33.48	$5,942	|34.1ll	"53,060	$34.83
			- -		t-tl	$6,182	05.53	$6,306	63824	$8,431	$38,96	$6,560	07.70	<6,690	$3845
					tvw	$6,624	$30J2	$6,962	$40.01	$7,101	$40.81	$7240	ifei.e-rl	$7,385	I $42.441
	; vinJ3		UunMpuil' ’	~ '	i v/fui/UO		14	M,Sat;	»Z9.4t>	$5,U4V		$5,150	$29.60	$5^55	530.20	S’358	530.60
			ii — ■u, 8 8 • '■ 8 8 • • 'H-* ' fii HH			$5,467	$31.42	65,575	$3204	$5,888	$32 69	$5,801	$3334	U918	134.01
					11*18	$6,036	$34.69	66,156	$35.36	$6,280	$3609	$6/403	$36.80	0/31	137.64
									■* "						
															
	106 19240		Physlctat, Mcepttal Radiation	107/01/08		M	$11X170	ttJtt	lnJW	$64.90	" 111,519	$66.20	111^		TH	seei?1
					Ml	$12,224	$7025	$12/487	$71,65	1112,718	$73.09	$12,972	$74.56	03^31	
					1M8	$13,485	$77.58	$13,786	$79.11	UUXMO	$80.68	$14&2	$6231	$14,606	$83.98
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
	Unk Coda		TSto Nam	EHteOw (Mi	8 T E P 8	1		2		3		4		6	
						•		7		6		0		10	
						11		12		13		14		16	
						16		17		18		10		20	
						31		22		23		24		26	
						26		27							
						MM*	M*'	MM*		MM*		MM*		MM*	
L A	106	0241	PhydcM, UmcM Rad. Ant	07/0108	M	$10,047	867.74	$10,247	$6840	$10,452	$60.07	$10481	$8127	$10475	$6230
			J s s i, /’’I x '		o-to	811,003		811,313	663.02	811.540	f88-3?	$11,771	$67.66	$12,006	in.oo
					1M8	$12,246	^63.75	812,401	$71.78	$12,742	87333	$12,006	$74.68	$13,256	$78.18
190
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
	Unk	Title	TMsNsms			s T E	1		2		3		4		5	
							•		7		6 -		8 .		10	
							11		12		13		14		16	
					ElwCtlW		18		17		18		19		20	
						P	21		22		23		24		26	
						S	26		27							
							MmVW		■mm,	Nouri*	IMty	Hm*W	MMNr	How*	M»*	Hourly
	RNersMe															
	027 18939		Scientist SpectaM, COn Lsb		7/1/2008	1-C	$5,063	$2921	$5,183	$29.70	$5,288	$30.39	$5,394	$31.00	$5,502	$31,62
				•MT	W01W	Mt	$5,612	$3225	$5,723	$32.89	$5,838	$33.55	$5,954	$3422	$6,073	$3410
				•MT	tmoijot	t«»	$6,194	$35.60	$6,318	$36.31	$8,445	$37X14	$6,574	$37.78	$6,706	$38.54
				N	s nt -											
R			*	fl*												
1	027 18940		Scientist, can Lab		7/1/2008		$4,141	*23.00	$4,225	$2428	$4,310	$24.77	$4,397	$2527	$4,486	$25.78
V			HHwrenMng -		07JQ1Q*	Mt	$4,576	$26JO	$4,868	$28.83	$4,762	$27.37	$4,858	$27.82	$4,956	$28.48
E			MUMMOM	•W	4 OTjmnf	11-M	$5,055	$29.05	$5,156	$29.63	$5,258	$3022	$5,363	$3012	$5,471	$31.44
R			VMwmm .	M	ne											
5				m												
1	028	9246	Pharmacist, Sr.		7/1/2008	14	$7,122	$40.93	$7,265	$41.75	$7,409	$42.58	$7,557	$4343	$7,708	$4430
D			* * , y.	□,		Mt	$7,663	$45.19	$8,020	$46.09	$8,180	$47.01	$8,343	$47.95	$8,510	$48.91
E						11-»	$8,681	$49.89	$8,855	$50.89	$9,032	$51.91	$9,213	$6215	$9,398	$54X11
						ts»	$9,586	$55.09	$9,777	$66.19						
	028	9248	Pharmacist Staff 1		7/1/2008	14	$6,588	$3768	$6,720	$38.82	$6,854	$30.39	$8,991	$40.16	$7,131	$4018
						Mt	$7,273	*41.80	$7,419	$42.64	$7,567	$43.49	$7,719	$44.36	$7,874	$4516
						$140	$8,032	$46.16	$8,192	$47.08	$8,355	$48.02	$8,523	$48.98	$8,693	$49.98
						tVtt	$8,867	$60.96	$9,045	$51.98						
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
192
	Unk Cod*	TttJ* Code	TO* Mm*	Effective Date	8 T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						6		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27							
						tioiMy | Hmm			HMiir		Hmc*	mm		MoM* | Itotaiy	
s A N D I E G O	SanDfego														
	026	5421	Dietitian. PD	7/1/2008	1	$5,027	$2889								
			Illi 111 UH												J
															
															
															
	026	5428	Dietitian 1	7/1/2008	1-f	$4,390	$25.23	$4,477	$26.73	$4,566	$26.24	$4,656	$26.78	$4,748	$27.29
					t-tt	$4,842	$27.83	$4,938	$28.38	$5,036	$28.94	$5,136	$29.52	$5,239	$30.11
					1M8	$5,344	$30.71	$5,450	$31.32	$5,558	$31.94	$5,669	$32.58	$5,782	$33.23
	027 1 8936		SdentM Spec, CUn Lab, Sr.	7/1/2008		$5,923	$34.04	$6,041	$34 72	$6,161	$35.41	$6283	$36.11	$6,408	$3883
			MUCMrug	tuo	or<nm U00	CFWim MMHWtMM	.	I1J0	0MMJU EMM	m	9440W		Ml	$6,535	$37.56	$6,666	$38.31	$6,798	$39.07	$6,934	$39.86	$7,071	$40.64
					IMS	$7,212	$41.46	$7,355	$42.27	$7,501	$43.11	$7,651	$43.97	$7,803	$44.85
															
															
	027	8939	Scientist Specialist, Cl Lab	7/1/2008	1-g	$5,558	$31.94	$5,669	$32.68	$5,782	$3323	$5,897	$33.88	$6,013	$34.56
			8 S 8 8 fill hl HU		1-11	$6,134	$3525	$6,255	$35.96	$6,381	$36.67	$6,508	$37.40	$8,636	$38.14
					11-11	$6,789	$3890	$6,903	$39.67	$7,040	$40.46	$7,179	$41.26	$7,321	$42.08
															
															
	027 1 8940		SdentM, CUnteat Lab	|	7/1/2008	>4	$4,240	$24.37	$4,324	$24.86	$4/409	$25.34	$4,496	$26.84	$4,585	$26.35
			Illi SIH hl Uh		MO	$4,675	$26.87	$4,768	$27.40	$4,882	$27.94	$4,959	$28.50	$5,058	$29.07
					IMI	$5,159	$20.85	$5,262	$3024	$5366	$30.84	$5,472	$31.45	$5,581	$32.07
															
															
	027	8954	Cytotechnologist, Senior	|	7/1/2008	1-1	$5,838	$33.58	$5,954	$34.22	$8,073	$34.90	$8,193	$36,59	$8,316	$36.30
			1 PI !ig> liii		Ml	$6,441	$37.02	$6,570	$3776	$6,701	$38.61	$6335	$39.28	$6,970	$40.06
					11-W	$7,110	$40 as	$7251	$41.67	$7396	$42.50	$7,543	$43.35	$7/894	$44.22
															
									i 1						
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
	Unk Coda	Tltte Coda	TttteNsma	EfUecdva Mo	S T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						6		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						16		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27							
						HofdMy	Hnaly			MonMy		MoMNr			Home
8 A N D I E Q 0	027	8956	Scientist, Qin Lab, Per Dtem	7/1/2008	f	$5,438	$31.24				■ -				
			8 8 8 « i.i n ! Id I 11												
															
															
															
	027	8060	SdentM. CUn Ltd), Spec, PD	7/1/2008	1	$5,930	$34.08								
			8 8 8 8 11 i.i Uh i - _ ~ hi												
															
															
															
	027	8907	Cytotechnototfsi. Sr. Per Dtem	| 7/1/2008		1	$6,890	$39.60								
			8*8 8 5 ill! Id im												
															
															
															
	027 19202		Physician Assistant, Sr.	I 7/1/2008			$7,268	$41.77	$7,412	$42.60	$7,560	$43.45	$7,710	1*4.31	$7,883	$45.19
			8 8 8 1 Li il SIH lib		•■10	$8,020	$46.09	$8,180	$47.01	$8,343	$47.95	$8,509	^48.90	$8,677	$49.87
					11-15	$8,850	$50.86	$9,025	$51.87	$9,205	$52.90	$9,387	$53.95	$9,574	$55.02
															
															
	027 19203		Physician Assistant	7/1/2008		$6,814	$38.01	$6,746	$38.77	$8,880	$39.54	$7,017	$40.33	$7,157	$41.13
			fesMIftpf F MS^B -			■*- ** ** r	— -		♦			*7 -444	-Aie.SaJ	*7 tAA	ftii.	*7 74*1	-* I d.Wfc,		
			111 Ui d Hl		IMfl	$6,054	$46.29	$6,215	$4721	$6,378	$48.15	$£1545	$49.11	$8,714	$50.08
															
															
	028 ।	9246	Pharmacist, Sr.	|	771Z2OO8	14	$8,596	$49.40	$6.7«6	$50.36	$8,040	$51.38	$9,118	$62.40	Fr2»	$53.44
					•41	$9,483	$54.50	$9,671	$56.58	$9,884	$56.69	$10,061	$57.82	$10281	$58.97
					IMS	$10,464	$60.14	$10,873	$61.34	$10385	$62.56	$11,101	$83.80	$11321	$85.07
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1, 2008
	Unk Cotte	ntte Cotte	TttteNanw		8 T E P 3	1		2		3		4		5	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
				Date		IS		17		16		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		37							
						MM»tr	Mowfr	kto^My		ItentNy	Hearer		How*	tiouMy	Hou*
8 A N D 1 E G 0	028	9247	Pharmacist, Staff tl	7/1/2008	14	$8,502	$48.66	$8,670	$49.83	$8,843	$50.82	$9,018	$51.63	$9,198	$52.88
			tUO	MO1AT tatKWW	ura	WMfli wmwwmm	k.w	moi or On-Crf	»%	MWM	1			$9,380	$53.91	$9,567	$54.98	$9,756	$56.07	$9,951	$57.19	$10,149	$58.33
					1M5	$10,351	$59 49	$10,557	$60.67	$10,767	$61.88	$10,981	$63.11	$11,199	$64.36
															
															
	028	9248	Pharmacist, Staff I	17/1/2008		44	$8,391	$36.73	$6,518	$37.46	$6,647	$3820	$6,779	$38.96	$6,913	$39.73
			MHflFEkM'ig	ST JO	MOW MMMMtft	ten	Mfflflr MUMWffM	C-TO	MfflWF Ova*	m	Mnot			$7,050	$40.52	$7,191	$41.33	$7,334	$42.15	$7,480	$42.99	$7,628	$43.84
					11-1S	$7,780	$44.71	$7,934	$45.60	$8,093	$46.51	$8,255	$47.44	$8,418	$48.38
															
															
	028	9250	Pharmacist II, Per Dtem	7/1/2008	1	$10,005	$57.50								
			I III 8 E B < a 2 a K hl rm												
															
															
															
	029	9285	Counselor, Genetic til	7/1/2008	14	$4,319	$24.82	$4,404	$25.31	$4,491	$25.81	$4,580	$26.32	$4,670	$26.84
					t*1#	$4,762	$27.37	$4,856	$27.91	$4,952	$26.46	$5,051	$29.03	$5,152	$29.61
					T1-W	$5,255	$30.20	$5,359	$30.80	$5,465	$31.41	$5,573	$32.03	$5,685	$32.87
	029	9287	Counselor, Genetic II	7/1/2008	14	$3,920	$22.53	$3,999	$22.98	$4,079	$23.44	$4,160	$23.91	$4,244	$24.39
			*		a-ta	$4,329	$24,88	$4,414	$25.37	$4,501	$25.87	$4,590	$26.38	$4,681	$28.90
					15-1B	$4,773	$27.43	$4,869	$27.96	$4,966	$28.54	$5,065	$29.11	$5,186	$29.69
	029 I	9313	Social Wetter, Clinical KI	1	7/1/2008	VI	$5,676	$32.62	$5,789	$33.27	$5,904	$33.93	$6,020	$34.60	$6,140	$3529
					Ma	$6,262	$35.99	$8,388	$38 71	$8,515	$37.44	$6,643	$38.18	$6,778	$38.94
					IMS	$6,910	$39.71	$7,047	$40.50	$7,188	$41.31	$7,331	$42.13	$7,476	$42.97
	029	9314	Social Worker, Cllnkcat It	|	7/1/2008	14	$5,060	$29.08	$5,161	$29.66	$5,264	$30.25	$5,368	$30.65	$5,474	$31.46
			-			$5,584	$32.09	$5,895	$32.73	$5,808	$33.38	$5,923	$34.04	$6,041	$34.72
					11-11	$6,161	$35.41	$6783	$38.11	$8,408	$38.83	$6,535	$37.56	$6,685	$38.30
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1.2008
CD
<J1
	Link Coda	Title Code	TWeManw	Effective Dale	S T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						18		17		16		18		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		27							
						IMW	ll awe		Haute	•ww	Maw^r	m*	to*	■wiMr	Ila aft
8 A K D 1 E G O	029	9315	Social Wolter, OHcai 1	7/1/2008		$4,120	$23.88	$4,202	$24.15	$4,286	$24.63	$4,371	$25.12	$4,458	$25.62
			Mtorawev	taw	wmm tuo	mu» IMUMWMM	llt»	ww Qfroe .	m	wnu		HI	$4,547	$26.13	$4,637	$26.65	$4,729	$27.18	$4,823	$27.72	$4,919	$2827
					IM*	$5,016	$28.83	$5,116	$29.40	$5,217	$29.98	$5,321	$30.58	$5,426	$31.19
															
															
	029 19318		Sodai Worker 11. CfirtcdPO	7/1/2008	1	$6,370	I&.IT								
			swNMfMQ	’ ■ taro * - nrmm MOW	tlJO	»r©wt '	na O-CH	1 is*	UW				-£■ <								
															
															
															
	029 19392		Paychometrtst, Sr.	7/1/2008	M	$3,564	$20.48	$3,635	$20.89	$3,708	$21.31	$3,781	$21.73	$3,856	$22.16
			’ - ■		Mt	$3,932	$22.80	$4,011	$23.05	$4,091	$23.51	$4,173	$23.98	$4,256	$24.46
					11-14	$4,341	$24.95	$4,428	$25.45	$4,517	$25.96	$4,608	$26.48	$4,700	$27.01
	029 19393		Psychometric	7/1/2008	14	$2,700	$15,52	$2,754	$15.83	$2,008	$16.14	$2,864	$16.46	$2,921	$1679
			ml Pi HhB sin s s 1 §		HI	$2,979	$17.12	$3,038	$17.46	$3,099	$17.81	$3,160	$15.16	$3,222	$18.52
					11-14	$3,287	$1839	$3,353	$19.27	$3,419	$19.65	$3,487	$20.04	$3,557	$20.44
															
															
	030	9383	Psydxjfofltat II	| 7/1/2008		14	$6,429	$38.05	$6,556	$37.88	$6,687	$38.43	$6,819	$39.19	$6,955	$39.97
					Ml	$7,094	$40.77	$7,235	$41.58	$7379	$42.41	$7,526	$43.25	$7,675	$44.11
					11-1B	$7,828	$44.99	$7,983	$45.88	$8,141	$48.79	$8,303	$47.72	$8,468	$48.66
	030	9384	Peychotoqtet 1	7/1/2008	14	$5,838	$33 54!	$5 953	LX3421.	IB 071	Itmrol		ea		ria nnr
					M0	$6,440	$37.01	$6,569	$37.75	$6,609	$36.60	$6,633	$3927	$6,969	$40415
						$7.(08	$4035	$7,249	$41.68	$7,383	$42.49	$7,541	$43.34	$7,690	$44.20
	031	9488	Therapist, Recrestton 1	17/1/2008		$4	$4,072	$2340	$4,153	$23.67	$4,235	$24.34	$4319	$24.82	$4304	$25.31
					HI	$4,491	$25.81	$4,580	$28.32	$4,670	$28.84	$4,762	$27.37	$4356	$27.91
					1W1	$4,954	$28.47	$5,053	$29.04	$5,154	$29.62	$5237	$30.21	$5,362	$30.81
	031	9472	Pathotogtet, Speech, Sr	7/1/2008	14	$4,641	$26.87	$4,733	$27.20	$4,627	$27.74	$4,922	$28.29	$5,020	$28.85
					Mt	$5,119	$29.42	$6J20	$30.00	$5424	$30.60	$5,431	$31.21	|KS38	W
					1MB	$5,648	$32.46	$5,781	$33.11	$5376	$33.77	$6893	$34.44	$8,112	$36.<3
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1.2008
CO 0>
	Link Co*	TO* Co*	Title Name		S T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						«		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
				Date		16		17		18		18		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27							
						Mll-fr		Ms—		Ma—Ij		*>**	Howly	e	
s A N D I E G O	031	9473	Pathologist, Speech	7/1/2008		$4,127	$23.72	$4,207	$24.18	$4,291	$24.68	$4378	$25.18	$4,465	$25.88
						$4,555	$26.18	$4,646	$28.70	$4,740	$2724	$4,834	$27.78	$4,933	$28.36
					1MI	$5,032	$28.92	$5,131	$29.49	$5,234	$30.08	$5,338	$30.68	$5,443	$31.28
	031 |9474		Audiologist, Sr	7/1/2008	14	$5,825	$32.33	$5,737	$32.97	$5,852	$33.63	$5,968	$34.30	$6,087	$34.98
					t-H	$6,208	$36.68	$6,332	$36.39	$8,457	$37.11	$6,588	$37.85	$6,716	$38.60
					11-11	$6,050	$39.37	$6,986	$40.15	$7,125	640.95	$7,266	641.76	$7,411	$42.69
	031 19475		Audiologist	7/1/2008	14	$5,119	$2942	$5,220	Iw.M	$5,324	|i6.80	$5,431	bui	$5,538	i3<85
					«-1*	$5,648	$32.48	$5,761	633.11	$5,876	$33.77	$5,993	$34.44	$6,113	$35.13
					11-11	$6,234	$35.83	$6,358	$38.54	$6,485	$37.27	$6,614	$38.01	$8,745	$36.76
	031	9476	Audiologist, Per Diem	7/1/2008	1	$6,873	$38.35								
			MNwemto	sjo	enctm tut	ewtro eutoawinii i	u«	onetm OvCW	-	H»	OtetTO												
															
															
															
	031	9498	Therapist, Occupational II	| 7/1/2008		1-8	$5,133	$29.50	$5,236	$30.09	$5,340	$30.69	$5,446	$31 JO	$5,554	$31.92
			•o-offewws _	. ,hj»	enotro »*a»Ui	tun	Mimo e*oa*MnM	, u«	metro On-cut	m	omom		8-18	$5,684	$32.55	$5,777	$33.20	$5,892	$33.88	$6,008	$34.53	$6,128	$35 22
					11-1*	$6,250	$35.92	$6,374	636.63	$8,501	$37.36	$6,629	$38.10	$6,762	$38.86
															
															
	031 |9499		Therapist, Occupational 1	|	7/1/2008	14	$4,440	$25.52	$4,529	$26.03	$4,620	$26.55	$4,712	$27.08	$4,806	$27.62
			«*a»ew*n	tun	metro MMtrMpt . -	'	- tun	metro mcukim	u jo	metro oncei	Me	owtro		W8	$4,902	$28.17	$4,999	$28.73	$5,098	$29 30	$5,199	$29.88	$5,302	$30.47
					1M«	$5,408	$31.08	$5,516	631.70	$5,625	$3233	$5,737	$32.97	$5,852	$33.83
															
															
	032 1	9003	Technologist, Nuclear Med, Sr	1	7/1/2008	14	$5,312	$30.53	$5,418	$31.14	$5,626	$31.78	$5,636	$32.39	$5,747	$33.03
			wa-oaewung	tut	enetro meowMS*	ago	metro Mwewwrt	ttjo	eneun On-cw	m	’	MTOW		8-18	$5,882	$33.88	$5,979	$34.38	$8,097	$35.04	$6^19	$35.74	$8342	$36.45
					11’U	$6,469	$37,18	$6,598	$37.92	$8,729	$38.67	$8,883	$39.44	$8,999	$40.22
															-
													r		
197
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
198
	Unk Coda	7M» Coda	Title Name	Effective	S T E P 8	1		2		3		4		5	
						0		7		6		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						16		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		ta		24		25	
						26		27							
						Irtirtftr	hmt	IMW	ana*	IMN*				Mbm** I	
s A N T A C R U Z	Santa Crus														
	027 18039		Scientist Specialist, a Lat>	] 7/1/2008		14	$5,056	$29.08	$5,158	$29.64	$5,261	$3033	$5,367	$30.84	$5,473	$3148
			MtoiEwfef	h>	m BiMiMgn	m	n _	citiM OvCrt	M	4		Mt	$5,582	$32.08	$5394	$32.72	$5,807	$33.37	$5,924	$34.06	$6,043	$34.73
					IM*	$6,182	$35.41	$6388	$36.13	$6,412	$3636	$6841	$37.50	$6,671	$38.34
					H-M	$8305	$39.11	$6,941	$3939	$7,079	$40.69	$7321	$41.50	$7,365	$42.33
															
	027 | 8940		Scientist. Clin Lab	7/1/2008	14	$4,597	$28.42	$4,689	$26.95	$4,783	$27.49	$4,879	tae.04	$4,977	$28.60
			> 1| 8 1 ! ? ! Id im		M*	$5,076	$29.17	$5,179	$20.76	$5382	$30.38	$5,388	$3097	$5,497	$31.59
					IMl	$5,607	$3232	$5,718	$32.86	$5,834	$33.53	$5,949	$34.19	$6,070	$3438
					*Mt	$6,191	$35.58	$6,314	$3639	$6,441	$37.01	$6,569	$37.78	$6,701	$3831
															
	027 |0202		Physician Assistant, Sr.	|	7/1/2008	14	$5,391	$30.98	$5,498	tai.60	$5,610	$3234	$5,721	$3238	$5,834	$33.53
			MMtewrt*	M	IM WOfWjM	Itt	n« MOS*MMM	tiso	onom OKUI ..MN		Mt	$5,953	$3431	$8,071	$34.89	$6,193	$35.59	$6,316	$3630	$6,441	$37,02
					11-11	$8,570	$37.78	$6,702	$38.52	$6,836	$3930	$8,972	$40.07	$7,111	$4037
					*MB	$7,254	$4139	$7,398	$42.52	$7,546	$43.37	$7,698	$4434	$7353	$48.13
					214*	$8,009	$46.03	$8,169	$48.95	$8,333	$47.89	$8,499	$4835		
	027 |	9203	Physician Assistant	|	7/1/2005	14	$4,900	$28.18	$4,997	$28.72	$5,098	$29.30	$5301	$2939	$5,304	$30.48
			8 t H ! 9 r. s a ? a id im		Mt	$5310	$31.09	$5,518	$31.71	$5,627	$32.34	$5,740	$3239	$5357	$3338
					IM*	$5,973	$34.33	$8,092	$35.01	$8314	$35.71	$6,339	$3643	$0,466	$37.16
					1M»	$6,595	$37.90	$6,727	$38.86	$8,881	$39.43	$8396	$4032	$7,137	$4132
					»44	$7380	$41.84	$7,426	$42.68	$7,574	$43.63	$7,726	$44.40		
	027	9204	Physician Assistant. Per Dtam	17/1/2008		1	$8,351	$53.74								
			* ? h a a ? a ill I1H												
															
															
															
	028 19246		Phsnnecist, Sr.	17/1/2008		*4	$7368	545.91	$8,148	$4833	$8311	$47.77	$8478	$48.73	$8347	$49.69
					Mt	$8321	$6039	$8,998	$51.71	$9,177	$52.74	$0,360	$53.79	89348	$5438
					1M2	$9,738	$56.97	$9334	$67.09						-
HX Appendix A Year 3
EHtetfea Jufy 1,2008
Unk TH*
Cod* Cod*
HttoNasw
ClNCuW
8
C
028
5		2		3		4		8	
e		7		8		0		10	
11		12		13		14		15	
18		17		18		18		20	
21		22		23		24		28	
28		27							
NUM		MN*W	HMP*		HMtfc	MmA*	Mf	MwdW	- MMPt
$7,204		$7,408	|CL57	$7,855	1434?	$7,708	*44.30	$7J61	145.18
$8,019		88,178	$47.00	$8,342	$47 J4	$8,508	84880	$8,079	mt
p^63	,w-»	$8,030	881 JO				’ *■, '		W - '
			*■		4 L r		-		>
	?■ .A> '		A -r		’-'U*		£ ■'		’1,
				Ol'lEt	ll*'9$	6*06$	906'9$	iLLLEJ	103*9$			* ' .r ; «•			
IE63$	001'9$	C£*83$	666*$	£1'83$	306'*$	39'23$	9or*$	CZEJ	3U'*$	fWl					
*9*93$	919*$	30*93$	239'*$	39'93$	0»*'*$	10*93$	396*$		997*$	M-l	- * j	*r-	** *■	r-	• HlW*			
90**3$	981'*$	Z9£3$	101'*$	irc3$	130'*$	99'33$	6*6*6$		998^$	W	9003/1/2	1	II f®fU80'J«»l»MFPOS	*166 1 630		
				fi*’*€$	*66*9$	£276$	aza19$	CETI	^9Z'S$	«w»					
»eci	8*9'9$	39 1E$	££9*9$	03'16$	63*'9$	69'06$	636'9$	[•Mhl	8179$	•1*1$	<* ’				
l**63$	2u's$	€8 83$	910'9$	£783$	616'*$	12’23$	338"*$	EUEhJ	83£'*$	tt-B					
caw»	*69'*$	11*93$	6*9'*$	00'93$	*9*'*$	01'93$	£96'*$		387*$	►I	900&1/2	1	||||BOfUgo'wxK>M|8pos	6166	| 630	
						89*99$	66*'6$	Lirai	Z06'6$	SMI		’	'	R	J			V
**39$	931'8$	IX19$	9*6'8$	0*09$	022'8$	3*6*$	669*8$	LkJ	06*8$						
off£*$	993*8$	29'9*$	£01'8$	99’9*$	6*6'£$	9Z’**$	882’2$	iLiiiki	969'2$	•4	8003/l/Z	1	111BK2	8*36	| 830	y
								lEliil	£0701$	H		■* . -			fl
18Z9$	zooms	86'99$	018'6$	93 99$	619'6$	61*9$	63*‘8$	LdiilJ	9*3'6$	•14					H
6039$	*90*6$	£019$	988'8$	9009$	0l£'8$	80'6*$	0*9*8$	Uklll	£Z6'8$		eooz/i/z	P	JS fspeuiBuy	9*36 1 930		V
996*$	ZSG'ZS	173*$	6**'Z$	£6'l*$	60C'£$	9l'l*$	09l'Z$	[LEIJ	61O'Z$						8
meet	388*9$	ZZ86S	9*Z'9$	10'86$	*19'9$	zzze$	98**9$	rrai	896'9$	•Mt					
38*96$	6679$	11*96$	601'9$	6**6$	168'9$	9zec$	6Z8'9$	LiliiJ	89Z'9$						V
**’36$	9*9'9$	06'id	669'9$	81'16$	93*‘9$	£9 06$	616'9$	KdtEl	9179$		8003/l/Z	juBjspsv ueps/Hd	6036	Z30	£
								LlldJ	8*9'9$	$	8003/l/Z	□d‘o«n uro w*ps		£30	N
											■u	“	»«o			V
*096$	1279$	66 96$	£*l'9$	*9*6$	£30'9$	98'66$	606'9$	L-ZEl	36Z'9$		•u				8
wzet	629'9$	00*36$	896'9$	£616$	89*'9$	ozoe$	396*9$	LIL^J	8*79$		WKAQ	EFM	' ’			
99 63$	6*1'9$	8883$	6*0'9$	1**63$	6»6'*$	09 23$	8*8'*$	nwi	392'*$		worn	CTtt	aawsHtHM			
8293$	099'*$	93’93$	899'*$	*£'93$	62*'*$	6793$	066’*$	I75E1	906'*$	t-l	8003/l/Z	qs-| uno W*PS	0*68| Z30		
0783$	zoe'rt	*9’Z3$	606'*$	0123$	9U‘*$	£993$	639'*$	LIflEl	669'*$						
*993$	*»'*$	*0'93$	£96'*$	99*3$	323'*$	90*3$	961'*$		901'*$						
EIE3$	930'*$	88'33$	9*6'6$	6733$	898'6$	08*13$	682'6$	GUO	8l£'6$						
96*03$	9*9'6$	*9'03$	*Z9‘£$	*1'03$	*09'6$	*£'61$	96**6$	ET3H	Z96'6$	•4	eoo&i/z	lumima	83*9 1 930		
												WQMQ mmg			
Akm		*■«				M>h		*•*< |							
						a		93		9					
	iZ		X	f	X	z	X		3	d					
	03		B		B		B		I	3	•MP*W3		•pog	•peg	
	91		Fl		B		;i		I	1			•Wl	W1	
	01		6		$		£		>	S					
	9		*		6		3		I						
eooc‘iXinr«A|iMiij3 £J«»A yjqpuodtfyxH
200
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
Link TMi
Cotto Cedi
020
9315 OocHWcdaf.Canfctol
1	2	3	4	S
8	7	8	•	10
11	12	13	14	18
10	17	10	10	20
21	22	23	24	28
>3,430
<3.788
*4,181
*4,616
*6,022
*6,647
*0,125
*0,783
*19.71
*21,78 'g2<X>3 •aH
*31.88
*36.20 *3887
♦3,490
*3,863
*4,266
*4,708 t6J23
*8,247
*6,899
*6,468 |*3137
*8,027 *34.84
			mat*
*3.589	•20.51	*3t640	•20.92
Ft939	•22.04	*4.019	•23.10
*4,360	<2640	*4.437	*2650
			-^1
*5,225	•3043	•5431	*3054
*5,772	*33.17	*6.888	•3354
•8472	*3642	*8.501	•37J8
*7,037	*40.44	*7,178	•4145
|4t752	•2741	*4,848	*2758
•6448	*30.16	*5462	*30.78
•6,792	•3329	*5,909	•33.98
•6498	*38.78	*8.523	•3749
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
							1		2		3		4		5	
						8	6		7		8		9		10	
	Unk	Ute				T	11		12		13		14		15	
	Cod*	Cote	TittaMama			E	16		17		IB		19		20	
					MEO	P	21		22		23		24		25	
						8	28		27							
							***	HM*	MonMy	: *«*	Mm0*				MMW	
	bvtna															
	026	5421	Dtettfan, PD		7/1/2008	1	$5,516	$$1.70								
	026	5428	DMManl		7/1/2008		$4,125	$23.70	$4,207	$24.18	$4291	$24.86	$4,377	$26.18	$4,465	$25.68
						Ml	$4,564	$28.17	$4,645	$26.70	$4,738	$27.23	$4,833	$27.77	$4,930	$28.33
	027 1 8838		SdantM Spec, CUn Lab, Sr.		7/1/2008	1^	$6,348	$36.48	$6,475	$37.21	$6,603	$37.95	$6,736	$38.71	$6,870	$39.48
				lira	Mowr	Ml	$7,007	$4027	$7,148	$41.08	$7,291	$41.90	$7,437	$42.74	$7,585	$43J0
				»T0	OttW!											
					M											
				•8»~	MW											
	027 |	8939	SctenlM SpaciaM, Cl Lab	' I	7/1/2008	14	$6,182	136.53	$8,306	$36.24	$8,431	$36.96	$6,560	fer.TO	$8,690	$38.48
				*1.TO	MW	Mt	$8,624	$39.22	$6,960	$40.00	$7,099	$40.80	$7^42	$41.62	$7,386	$4245
			SMMNV*	UTO.	MMff											
1					no											
fl y			OvpCO	WHO	QMH/OT											
1	027 |8M0		SdantM, COnical Lab	]		7/1/2008	M	$5312	$3235	$5,725	$32.00	$5,839	$33.56	$5,956	^34^3	$6,074	$34.91
N				*i.n	. MOW	Ml	$6,196	$35.61	$6,320	$36,32	$6,447	$37.06	$6,575	$37.79	$6,708	$3856
E			T	e.rt	MW											
			MUNMWnl -	-	■an	no									•U'-		■	w
			0h4M	|M0	MW											
	027 |	8054	Cytotechnotogtet, SotMor	I		7/1/2008	M	$6,482	$37.31	$6,622	$38.06	$6,755	$38 S2	$6390	139.60	$7,028	$4039
				nn1	mwat	Ml	$7,169	$41.20	$7,311	$42.02	$7,458	$42.86	$7,607	$43.72	$7,759	$44.59
			•MtflOOM	*2 TO	MW											
			MMAWMM	*	no											
			cw» -		M											
	027 18966		CytotMtinoiafOit		1	7/1/2008	If	$8,182	$35.53	$6,308	$3824	$6,431	$36.96	$8380	$37.70	$6,600	$3845
				*170	MW	Ml	$8,824	$3922	$6,960	$4000	$7,099	$40.80	$7342	$41J2	$7,386	$4245
			«MMNW ■ -	UTO- -	MM?									—*		
				’“-nd — * *' . ail						*• -				t-r »		
				■* no ’	M		1							-		
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective Juiy 1,2008
	Unk Cods	-ran Code	Tttln Nunn	Effisctfrn Dale	8 T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						8		7		8		9		10	
						11 18		12 17		13 18		14 19		13 20	
						21		22		23		24		23	
						28		27							
						Hl tit	Hwt^f	ifcnatj		*****	Nnafr	Mmrt*	HMf^f	MwO*	
t R V 1 N E	027	8966	Scientist, CUn Lab. PD	7/1/2008	1	$6,743	$38.75								
			Mt4Mtfw*v	11 .n	Mwnr M*ORMV> .	,	»”	0W1B7 ’ ra	na 04*101												
															
															r 4
															
	027	8957	CLS Apprentice	7/1/2008	1	$3,698	$2125								
	027	8997	CytotechnotoQist, Sr. PD	7/1/2008	1	$7,976	$45.84						*		
			8MMXFEw*ig	*1 n	tWDMfl mum NW	ttrt	owuti? MHWWNfed	ho	fle [»Ctf	no	ra												
															
															
															
	027 |9202		Physician Assistant, Sr.	7/1/2006		$7,736	$44.46	$7,891	$45.35	$8,049	$48.26	$8,211	$47.19	$8,375	$48.13
					Mt	$8,542	$4909	$8,712	$50.07	$8,886	$51.07	$9,064	$52.09	$9,245	$53.13
	027	9203	Physician Assistant	i	7/1/2008	1-1	$7,367	$42.34	$7,515	$43.19	$7,685	$44.05	$7,818	$44.93	$7,974	$4833
			s	4		Mt	$8,135	$46.75	$8,298	$47.69	$8,463	$48.64	$8,632	$49.61	$8*804	$50.60
	028 ] 9240		Pharmacist, Sr.	1	7/1/2008	M	$9,765	$58,12	$9,960	$57.24	$10,160	$58.30	$10,363	$50.66	$10,570	$80.75
			* * ■		8	$10,781	$81.96								
	028	9247	Pharmacist, Staff II	1	7/1/2008	14	$9,300	$53,45	$9,486	$54.52	$9,676	$56.81	$9,869	$56.72	$10,066	$57.86
			law EvwWV -*	14 78	OWWOT fflNMMTNW	M40	0W1JOT MXMWMmf	M	ffe OCtt	nt	_	fit		•	$10,268	$59.01								
															
											-						
			Phsmtacifi, Sian i "	17/1/2008		14	$8,857	$50.90	$9,034	$51.92	$9,215	$52.96	$9,399	$54.02	$9,587	$56.10
			HU IM > a 2 « « ■ 1 8 a •Mi		t	$9,779	$5620						- ~		
															
															
													-		
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
204
	Link Coda	ntto Coda	TWe Rente	Effective Date	8 T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						6		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						18		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		27							
						MmMy	Mowtr	IfontNp			MMdp	MoWMy	riDutir		Hs-V
I R V 1 N E	026	9249	Pharmacist, PD	7/1/2008	1	$11367	$64.75								
			II" e 9 - , » a 1 8 bi iih												
															
															...... .
															
	029	9285	Counselor, Genette III	17/1/2008			$4,125	C&.70	$4307	fc?4.ld	$4391	hih	$4,377		$4,465	$25.h
					felt	$4,554	$26.17	$4,645	$26.70	$4,738	$2733	$4,833	$27.77	$4,930	$28.33
	029 | 9287		Counselor, Genetic 11	7/1/2008		$3,745	$21.52	$3,820	$21.96	$3,896	$22 39	$3,974	$2234	$4,054	$23.30
					felt	$4,135	$23.76	$4317	$2434	$4,302	$24.72	$4,388	$2532	$4,475	$25.72
	029 [9288		Counselor, Genetic I	17/1/2008		M	$3,120	$17.93	$3,183	$1839	$3346	$18.06	$3,311	$19.03	$3,377	$19.41
					feW	$3,445	$19.60	$3,514	$20.19	$3,584	$20.80	$3,656	$21X11	$3,729	$21,43
	029	9310	Social Worker III, dnicai PD	7/1/2008	1	$6,003	$34.50								
	029	9313	Social Worker, Clinical III	7/1/2008	14	$5,240	$30.12	$5,345	$30.72	$5,452	$31.33	$5,561	$31.96	$5,672	$32.60
					fett	$5,788	$3335	$5,901	$33.92	$6,019	$34.59	$6,140	$36.29	$8363	$35.99
	029	9314	Social Worker. Clinical II	| 7/1/2008		1-8	$4,784	$27.49	$4,880	$28.04	$4,977	$28.00	$5,077	$29.18	$5,178	$29.76
					fell	$5382	$30.36	$5,388	$30.96	$5,495	$31.58	$5,605	$32.21	$5,717	$32.88
	029 ]9315		Social Worker, Clinical I	17/1/2008		14	$4,339	$24.94	$4,426	$25.44	$4,514	$25.94	$4,605	$26.48	$4,897	$20.99
					felt	$4,791	$27.53	$4386	$28.08	$4384	$28.64	$5,084	$29.22	$5,186	$29.80
	029	9316	Social Worker II, dnicai PD	7/1/2008	1	$5,707	$32.80								
	029	9341	Social Work Associate	7/1/2008	44	$4,125	$23.70	$4307	$24.18	$4391	$24.08	$4,378	$25.15	$4,463	$26.65
			*e-oae<«*»	>ok	onmm *•<*>*¥*	teM	owint BMUttVlWnnd	nt	m OfrCw	n	m		felt	$4,552	$28.16	$4,842	$28.68	$4,735	$2731	$4,829	$27.75	$4,928	$28.31
															
															
															
	029	9342	Social Work Associate, Asst	1	7/1/2008	fei	$3387	$19.52	$3,484	$19.91	$3334	$20.31	$3,005	$20.72	$3,877	$21.13
			MUMCwiSw	tea>	gv*tm MMeMsa	. ten	0TOKS MWIMW	••'n.	■ ru □n-Cet	n	ra		t-W	$3,750	$21.55	$3,825	$21.98	$3,901	$2242	$3,979	$22 67	$4,059	$23 33
							V-		-						-i
															
															
HX Appendix A Year 3
Effective July 1,2008
N>
	Unk Coda	Tttfe Cods	TlttaNatm	Efltctiw Date	8 T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						6		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		15	
						16		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						26		27							
						MmM*	Has*	IMW	rima*	ItartMy	Moat*	Moatti*		MMfey	Mts*
1 R V 1 N E	029	8345	CMdDevAeeodate	7/1/2008		$3,932	$22.60	$4,011	$23.05	$4,091	$23.51	$4,173	$23.96	$4756	$24.46
					A-11	$4,341	$24.95	$4,428	$25.45	$4,517	$25.98	$4,608	$28.48	$4,700	$27.01
	029	9362	Child Life SoecHtat II	7/1/2008		$4,339	$24.94	$4,427	$25.44	$4,515	$25.95	$4,606	$28.47	$4,698	$27.00
			MOENf*	*	’ owte no	M On-CM	m	ne			$4,792	$27.54	$4,888	$28.09	$4,985	$28.66	$5,084	$2972	$5,185	$29.80
															
															
															
	029 | 9353		dwid ide Specialist 1	17/1/2008			$3,932	saw	$4,011	$23.05	$4,091	i>3.51	$4,173	$2398	$4756	li4.4d
			;	|1 JO	4101M MMWM0N '	'	<2-20	W»ia MUNuM	na	n OMM	no	no		•-U	$4,341	$24.96	$4,428	$25.45	$4,517	$25.98	$4,608	$26.48	$4,700	$27.01
															
															
															
	029	9392	Psychometric!, Sr.	7/1/2008	44	$3,745	$21.52	$3,820	$21.96	$3,896	$22.39	$3,974	$22.84	$4,054	$23.30
					Ml	$4,135	$23.76	$4,217	$2474	$4,302	$24.72	$4,388	$2572	$4,475	$26.72
	029	9393	Psychometrist	7/1/2008	14	$3,397	$19 62	$3,484	$19.91	$3,534	$20.31	$3,605	$20.72	$3,677	$21.13
					1-1*	$3,750	$21.55	$3,825	$21.98	$3,901	$22.42	$3,979	$22.87	$4,059	$23.33
	030 19383		PsychoiOOlStil	7/1/2008	14	$8,682	$38.40	$6,816	$39.17	$6,952	$39.96	$7,091	$40.75	$7733	$41.57
					Ml	$7378	$42.40	$7,525	$4375	$7,676	$44.11	$7,829	$45.00	$7,986	$45.90
	030 19384		Paychotonistl	f7/1/2008		14	$6,061	$34.83	$8,182	$35.53	$6,306	$36.24	$6,432	$36.97	$6,561	$37.70
					*-t*	$6,892	$38.46	$6,826	$3973	$6,962	$40.01	$7,101	$40.81	$7743	$41.83
	031	9451	Music Therapist	7/1/2008	*4	$4,125	$23.70	$4,207	$24.18	$4791	$24.66	$4,378	$25.15	$4,463	$26.65
					•-It	$4,552	$26.16	$4,642	$26,68	$4,735	$2771	$4,829	$27.76	$4,926	$28.31
	031 19465		Therapist, Recreation 11	7/1/2008	M	$4,125 $4,552	123.70	$4707	$24.18	$4791	$24.66	$4,378	S2K.1_‘>	C4 4m	■kajure
					Me		$26.16	$4,642	$26.68	$4,735	$2731	$4,829	$27.76	$4,926	$28.31
	031	MOB	Tlwaptet, Rscnstton 1	1	7/1/2008	M	$3,745	$21.52	$3319	$21.95	$3,896	$22.39	$3774	|2234	$4,054	$23.30
						$4,138	$23,77	$4720	$24.25	$4,305	$24.74	$4,390	$2573	$4,477	$25.73
	031	9471	PsthotoQtet, Spooch PD '	7/1/2008	1	$8,336	$47.90								
	031	9472	■	1 j		U. A— r8uiCN0H**% OPBvCn, or	7/1/2008	M	$8,364	$36.57	$6,492	$37.31	$8,822	$38.08	$8,756	$38.82	$8390	$394)0
					Mt	$7,028	$40.39	$7,169	$41.20	$7,311	$42.02	$7,458	$42.86	$7,607	$43.72
206
HX Appendix A Year 3 Effective Juty 1,200S
	Link Mt	TMe CWi	TWoName	HtecM Mr	8 p s	1		2		3		4		5	
						•		7		8		9		10	
						11 18		12 17		13 18		14 19		18 20	
						21		22		23		24		25	
						28		27							
						tea*	Hew*	Muna*	Ite*	te*	Haw*	Mete*	Haw*	fete*	Haw*
1 R V 1 N E	031	9473	Pathotootat, Scwech	7/1/2008	M	$6,061	$34.83	$6,182	$35.53	$6,306	$36.24	$6,431	$38.98	$6,560	$37.70
					Mt	$6,690	$38.48	$6,824	$39.22	$6,960	$40.00	$7,099	540.80	$7242	$41.62
	031	9474	AudkAxMSr	7/1/2008	M	$6,061	$3483	$8,182	$3553	$6,306	$3634	$8,431	$36.98	$6 JOO	$37.70
			' ,	C	■ - v		Mt	$6 JOO	$3645	$6,824	$39.22	$6,960	$40.00	$7,099	$40.80	$7,242	$41.62
	031	9475	AudMoaM	7/1/2008		$5,502	$31.62	$5,612	$32.25	$5,725	$32.90	$5,839	$33.56	$5,958	$3433
						$8,074	$34.91	$6,196	$35.81	$6,320	$38.32	$8,447	$37.05	$6,575	$37-79
	031	9490	Therapist. Occupational II PD	7/1/2008	1	$8348	$47.40								
	031	9491	Therapist, Occupational 1 PD	7/1/2008	1	$7,421	$42 65								
	031	9498	Therapist, Occupational II	7/1/2008	14	$6,364	$36.57	$6,492	t3>.31	$6,622	iiA.Ad	$6,755	laSST	$6390	$39 JO
					t$t	$7,028	$40.38	$7,169	$4130	$7,311	$42.02	$7,458	$42.86	$7,607	$43.72
	031	9499	Therapist, Occupational 1	7/1/2008	14	$6,061	$34.83	$6,182	$35.53	$6,306	$36.24	$6,431	$36.96	$6,560	$37.70
					Mt	$6,690		$6,624	$3922	$8,960	$40.66	$7,099	$4030	$7342	$41.62
	032	9003	Technologist, Nudeer Med. Sr	7/1/2008	14	$6,682	$38.40	$6,816	$39.17	$6,951	$39.95	$7,091	$40.75	$7333	$41.57
			MOIEwtV	1’1	BMW MMMIWMMrt	na	M 0n4*t		Mi	$7,378	$42.40	$7,526	$43.25	$7,677	$44.12	$7,830	$45.00	$7,987	$4&90
															*
															
															
	032	9004	Todmotootst, Nuclear Med	|	7/1/2008	14	$8,364	$36418	$6,492	$37.31	$6,822	$38.06	$6,756	$38.82	$6,800	$38.60
			KHMEteng	ll.TO	ftWWI MWfWl	UTO	0M4JD1 .	. .	A h \ ., *8JD	. OWlfll		Ml	$7,028	$40.39	$7,169	$41-20	$7,311	$42.02	$7,456	$42.86	$7,607	$43.72
															
															
															-
			iwC iinmJ. St, FD	j /ZI/ZUUG		1		$46.35								
			MMNTMpu	^tJ.W "	TCWtJtC MMO* Waited	F m	m DfrCtf	' Mjd -	ftKW-												
															
															
															
207
HX Appendix A Year3 Effective July 1,2008
	Link	TOte Coda	THia Hamo	EHMM Data	S T E P S	1		2		3		4		5	
						6		7		8		9		10	
						11		12		13		14		IS	
						16		17		18		19		20	
						21		22		23		24		28	
						26		27							
						Mm*	' Mm*	Moatt*	Hm*	MM*	MM* '	HmMy	Hw*.	MotMy	*-a_
1 R V 1 N E	036	8962	SrOrthoptM	7/1/2008		*5,502	$31.82	$5,612	$3235	*5,725	$3230	$5339	$3356	$5356	$3433
			Mwwenes	<■ , w» «MSHpa^ '	tun	M*W» m ■	■ <a ,■	’ M	<■	.		M»	66,074	$34.91	$6,196	$3531	$6,320	$38.32	$6,447	$37.05	$8,575	$37.79
															
							!								
															
	035	8983	OrthootM	7/1/2008	PB	$4,992	$28.69	$5391	*2938	$5,194	*2936	$5398	$30.45	$5,404	$314»
			|| • i SO 8 8 hl mi		l-W	16,512	$31.68	$5,822	932.31	$5,735	J32.96	$5,650	$33.82	$6,966	$3439
															
															
															
	106 |9240		Pm. . 1 _ I j bi	_ Ji		 rrVySKM HMp NstMwOfl	7/1/2008	i-a	$6364	ww	$6,482	$3731			$6,755	I&82	$6390	
					M8	$7,028	$40.39	$7,189	*4130	$7,311	$42.02	$7,458	$42.86	$7,607	*43.72
	106 10241		Aaat Phyaictat Hosp Ratttatton	7/1/2008	14	$4,992	$2839	$5,001	$2938	$5,194	*2*86	$5398	$30.45	$5304	$3106
			y ■	rT7? *	' .		<-*•	$6,512	$31.68	$5,622	$32.31	$5,735	$32.98	$5,850	$33.62	$5,966	*3439
APPENDIX B
ENUMERATION OF UNIVERSITY BENEFITS
A.	HEALTH BENEFITS
1.	Medical Program - A variety of Health Malntena i ;e Organizations (HMOs) and fee-for-service plans are available to cover eligible employees and their eligible family members. Chace of plans may vary from location to location. Eligible part-time employees appointed and paid by the University to work a specified minlmurr appointment and average regular paid time may be covered by the CORE major medical plan. The plan is available to the employee and eligible family members.
2.	Dental Program - Dental plans are available to eligible employees. Employees may cover themselves and their family members.
3.	Vision Program - A vision plan is available to eligible employees. Employees may cover themselves and their eligible fan tty members.
B.	UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA RETIREMENT SYSTEM
1.	University of California Retirement Plan (UCRP) - figibie employees covered by this Agreement shall be covered by the University of California Retirement Plan (UCRP).
2.	Tax-Deferred 403(b) Plan - Voluntary participation 11 the UCRS Tax-Deferred 403(b) Plan is available to alt University employees except students who normally work less than twenty (20) hours per week. The Plan provides a mix of internally and externally managed investment options.
3.	Defined Contribution Plan (DC Ran)
a.	Pre-Tax Account - All current member contributions to the University of California Retirement Plan (UCRP are redirected to the Pretax Account. Although payroll reductions default to the Savings Fund, participants are offered a mix of internally and externally managed investment options. Redire Sion is subject to annual Regentai review.
b.	Pre-Tax/Safe Harbor Account - Employees wh<i are not in a UC-
sponsored defined benefit retirement plan .make mandatory contributions of 7.5% of earnings up to the So Jal Security wage base to the Pretax Account in Heu of paying the Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance portion of So:ial Security taxes (Safe Harbor contributions). Although payroll reductions defeult'to the Savings Fund, participants are offered a ml k of Internally and externally managed Investment options.
c.	After Tax Account - Voluntary participation ii the After-Tax Account is available to all University employees except students who normally work less than twenty (20) hours :>er week. Payroll deductions may be invested in a mix of Internally and externally managed investment options.
4.	457(b) Deferred Compensation Ran - Voluntary participation In the UCRS 457(b) Plan is available, effective October 1, 20C4, to all University employees except students who normally work less than twenty (20) hours per week. The Ran provides a mix of internally and externally managed investment options.
C.	UFE INSURANCE
1.	Unlversitv-Paid - Two University-Paid life insurance pla is. Basic Life and Core Life provide basic life insurance coverage. Ttiu amount varies,
208
depending on your appointment rate and average regular paid time. Eligible employees are automatically covered by t ie plan for which they qualify.
2.	Supplemental - Optional personal life Insurance and dependent life insurance is available and may be purchased by eligible employees.
D.	OTHER INSURANCE
1.	Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance - E -gible employees may
purchase Optional AD&D insurance. A variety of c< verages and amounts are available to cover employees and their eligible f.iimiiy members,
2.	Business Travel Accident Insurance - Employees who are traveling on official University business are covered by $100,OVD of accidental death and a scheduled dismemberment insurance.
3.	Disability Insurance
a.	Short-Term Disability Insurance - Short-Term disability insurance is available to eligible employees. Eligible employees are automatically covered by the plan.
b.	Supplemental Disability Insurance- Optional supplemental disability insurance may be purchased by eligible employees. This optional coverage augments the Short-Term Disability Insurance referenced above, and provides Long Term Disability coverage.
4.	Legal Expense Insurance Plan - A legal expense ir-iurance plan may be purchased by eligible employees. The plan is er iployee-paid through payroll deductions.
5.	Auto/Homeowner Insurance - Individual auto and home insurance policies are available which may be purchased bi' eligible employees through payroll deduction.
E.	OTHER BENEFITS
1.	Tax Effective Salary Reduction Programs
a.	Retirement Tax Savinas Plan - Required monthly participant contributions to the DC Plan Pretax Accor nt are automatically deducted from gross pay before federal jind state taxes are calculated.
b.	Tax Savinas on Insurance Premiums (TIP) - Employees enrolled in certain benefit plans are automatically en otied in TIP, unless the employee makes an election to withdraw. After the University contribution, if any, is applied the net insu anca premiums are deducted from gross pay before federal and s ate taxes.
2.	Dependent Care Reimbursement Account (DepCiire) - DepCare is available to eligible employees and allows employe' s to pay for eligible dependent care expenses on a pre-tax, salary reduct izm basis.
3.	Health Care Reimbursement Account (HORA) - The Hearth Care Reimbursement Account is available to eligible employees and allows them to pay for eligible health care expenses r ot covered by the employee’s medical, dental, or vision plans on a pre ax, salary reduction basis.
4.	U.S. Savinas Bonds - Through payroll deductions, investments can be made in Untied States Series EE Savings Bonds.
5.	Death Payments - Death payments are provided u|ion the death of an employee who has been on pay status at least fifty percent (50%) time at least six (6) continuous months prior to death. Payment is a sum equal to the deceased's regular salary for one (1) month, and shall be paid to the
209
person or persons tn the first of the following categories in which there is a survivor legal spouse or domestic partner child or children; parent or parents; or siblings. If there is no survivor in any of the foregoing categories, the benefit will be paid to the estate, or if there is no estate, to the beneficiary designated in the deceased's Ur.versity-paid fife insurance policy. All monies due and payable to the employee at the time of death shaft be paid to the employee's surviving spouse or domestic partner and/or eligible dependent(s).
6.	Alternate Retirement Plans - Employees covered by alternate retirement plans are subject to plans rules and regulations, and not subject to UCRP coverage.
210
Appendix C
List of Arbitrators
a, Northern List of Arbitrators;	b. Southern List of Arbitrators:
Charles Askin 31 Loma Vista Walnut Creek, CA 94597 Ph (925) 934-1929 Fax (925) 472-0408	Howard Block Wellington F'laza Suite G 505 East Fir‘st Street Tustin, CAS 2780 (714) 544-3323 - Telephone & Fax
Bonnie Bogue 3020 El Cerrito Plaza, #411 El Cerrito, CA 94530 Ph (510) 527-7205 Fax (510) 527-7205	Joseph Gen lie P.O. Box 7418 Thousand O iks.CA 91359-7418 Ph (805) 491-4282 Fax (805)499-0018
Luella Nelson 4096 Piedmont Avenue #159 Piedmont, CA 94611 Ph (510)658-4959 Fax (510) 658-9423	R. Douglas Collins P.O. Box43!l9 West Hills, CA 91308-4399 (818) 716-8969 • Telephone and Fax
Paul Staudohar 1140 Brown Avenue Lafayette, CA 94549 Ph (510) 885-3080 Fax (510)885-4796	Louis Zigmaii 473 South Helt Avenue Los Angeles, CA 90048 Ph (310) 556 3748 Fax (310) 550-8439
John Kagel P.O. Box 50787 Palo Alto, CA 94303 Ph (650) 325-0389 Fax (650) 32S4394	Kenneth A. Forea P.O. Box 27£ 3 Del Mar, CA 92014-5788 Ph (619) 481 5191 Fax (619) 481-0149
Kathleen Kelly 400 Capital Mall, 27*h Floar Sacramento, CA 95814 Ph (916) 321-4500	Fred Horowit: P.O. Box 3613 Santa Monies, CA 90408-3613 Ph (310) 829 5064 Fax (310) 449-1049
Ed Edelman 516 Warner Avenue Lbs Angeles, CA 90024 Ph (310)474-3794 Fax (310)475-8782	Bonnie Boguti 3020 El Cerriio Plaza, #411 El Cerrito, CA, 94530 Ph (510) 527-7205 Fax (510) 527-7205
Alexander Cohn P.O. Box 4006 Napa, CA 94558 Ph (707) 226-7096 Fax (707) 252-406	George Marshall 854 Pico Bou ward Santa Monica, CA 90405 Ph (310) 463-7002 Fax (310) 234-824
Phil Tamoush P.O. Box 1128 Torrance, CA 90505 Ph 1(800) 747-9245 Fax 1(800)903-4266 _{31O) 540-4978 - home	David Hart 1350 Front Sti aet, Room 4060 San Diego, C/v 92101 (619) 525-4231
Neil Herring 503 Sandretto Dr. Sebastopol, CA 95472 Ph (707) 823-9418	Luella Nelson 4096 Pied mor; Avenue, #159 Piedmont, CA 34611 Ph (510) 658-<i959 Fax (510) 658-9423
Barry Winograd Lake Merritt Plaza 1999 Harrison Street, Suite 1400 Oakland, CA 94612 Ph (510) 465-5000 Fax (510) 273-8746	Barry Winogra ;i Lake Merritt Pinza 1999 Harrison Street, Suite 1400 Oakland. CA 94612-3517 Ph (510) 465-t-JOO Fax (510) 273-8746
211
Robin Matt 909 Marina Village Parkway, Suite 149 Alameda, CA 94501 Ph (510) 865-4662	Robin Matt 909 Marina Vil age Parkway, Suite 149 Alameda, CA 1)4501 Ph (510) 865^662
Fred Horowitz P.O. Box 3613 Santa Monica, CA 90408-3613 Ph (310) 829-6064 Fax (310) 449-1049	Bonnie Castre ■' P.O. Box 5007 Huntington Be i ch, CA 92615 Ph (714) 963-1114 Fax (714) 963-2395
Norman Brand 150 Lombard Street #3 San Francisco, CA 94111 Ph (415) 982-7172 Fax (415) 982-8021	Norman Brand 150 Lombard Street #3 San Francisco CA94111 Ph (415) 982-7 172 Fax (415) 982-8021
212
APPENDIX D
UPTE HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS UNIT GRIEVANCE FORM	Allegations ot a violation of the Health Care Professional:: Agreement in effect between the University and UPTE must be filled in on this form. See />ur Agreement for details regarding the filing of a grievance. PLEASE PROVIDE THE INFORMATION REQUESTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 8, GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE OF THE HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS UNIT AGREEMENT.						
GRIEVANT'S NAME					NAME OF GRIEVANT'S IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR		
CAMPUS / MEDICAL CENTER t LABORATORY				DEPARTMENT 1 DIVISION			WORK TELEPHONE
EMPLOYEE CLASSIFICATION TITLE				NON-WORK ADDRESS TO WHICH CORRESPONDENCE MAY BE SENT TO GRIEVANT			
EMPLOYEE EMPLOYMENT STATUS ___ Career/Rogular	Probationary	Full Tima	Catual/Tamporary 	Par Otam	Port Tima							GRIEVANT’S NORMAL HOURS OF WORK
IF REPRESENTED IN THIS GRIEVANCE			, PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING:				
REPRESENTATIVE S NAME			REPRESENTATIVES ORGANIZATION			REPRESENTATIVE'S TELEPHONE NUMBER	
REPRESENTATIVE'S NON-WORK ADDRESS, CITY, STATE, ZIP							
TYPE OF GRIEVANCE: 	INDIVIDUAL 	GROUP (LIST ALL GRtEVANTSI _ UNION (MUST BE SIGNED BY THE PRESIDENT OR DESIGNEE)					SPECIHC ARTICLEISI & SECT ON(S) OF THE CONTRACT ALLEGED TO BE VIOLATED:		
DATE OF ACTION CAUSING GRIEVANCE / /		DATE! SUPER		IF INFORMAL DISCUSSION WIT! VISOR / /		1	DATE OF INFORMAL RE >PONSE 	/ /
							
ALLEGED VIOLATION OF AGREEMENT							
REMEDY REQUESTED							
GRfEVANTS AND/OR REPRESENTATIVE'S SIGNATURE							DATE
213
APPENDIX 0
GRIEVANCE REVIEW - STEP 1
DATE STEP 1 GRIEVANCE RECEIVED BY UC:		1 DATE OF UC RESPONSE:		
STEP 1 DECISION				
SIGNATURE OF STEP 1 REVIEWER	PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF STEP 1 REVIEWER		TELEPH	ONE NUMBER
	1 DO NOT ACCEPT AND APPEAL RESPONSE TO THE SECOND STEP (S SUBJECT BELOW)	FHE STEP 1 FATE	GRIEVANT'S AND/OR REPRESENTATIVE'S SIGNATURE		DATE
SUBJECT OF GRIEVANCE AT STEP 2, IF DIFFERENT THAN SUBJECT OF GRIEVANCE AT STEP 1.				
GRIEVANCE REVIEW - STEP 2
DATE STEP 2 APPEAL POSTMARKED/HAND-DEUVERED	DATE STEP 2 APPEAL RECEIVED BY UC		DATE OF UC RESPONSE	DECISION ATTACHED 	YES	NO	
SIGNATURE OF STEP 2 REVIEWER		PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF STEP 2 REVIEWER			
	1 DO NOT ACCEPT AND APPEAL THE STEP 2 RESPONSE TO THE SECOND STtp (STATE SUBJECT BELOW)		GRIEVANT'S AND/OR REPRESENTATIVE'S SIGNATURE			DATE
SUBJECT OF GRIEVANCE AT STEP 3, IF ANY ISSUEIS) OF GRIEVANCE AT STEP 2 HAS BEEN RESOLVED.					
GRIEVANCE REVIEW - STEP 3
DATE STEP 3 APPEAL POSTMARKEDMAND-DELIVERQ)	DATE STEP 3 APPEAL RECEIVED BY UC		DATE OF UC RESPONSE	DECISION ATTACHED 	YES	NO
SIGNATURE OF STEP 3 REVIEWER		PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF STEP 3 REVIEWER		
214
APPENDIX E
SIDE LETTER - IN ACTIVE HX TITL 1=9
The parties agree to Inactivate the following HX titles at the S| loctiled locations;
University of CaBfomta, Santa Barbara
9285 Genetic Counselor HI
9207 Genetic Counselor I)
9341 Social Work Assoc
9342 Asst Social Work Assoc
9392 Sr. Psychometrtst
9393 Psychometrtst
University of Caitfomi*, Riverside
9313 CMcal Social Worker III
9314 Clinical Social Worker II
9315 Clinical Sodat Worker J
9341 Sodal Work Assoc
9342 Asst Social Work Assoc
9392 Sr. Psychometrtst
9393 Psychologist II
9384 Psychologist I
University of California, Berkeley
9393 Psychometrtst
9392 Sr. Psychometrtst
9341 Soda! Worker Associate
9342 Assistant Soda) Worker Associate
University of Cailfamta, Davts
9316 COnical Sodai Worker II, Per Diem.
University of Cailfontia, San Diego
8950 Consutttog Toodcctoglst
8955 CytotechndogM
8982 Sr. Orthoptist
9004 Nue. Med. Technologist
9005 NMT Trainee
9240 Phyddst Hoap Racfiation
9241 Asst Physidst Hosp. Rad.
9288 Genetic Counselor I
9341 Sodal Work Associate
9342Asst Soda! Work Associate
9485 Recreation Therapist fl
9477 Reading Therapist .
Untveratty of California, Irvine
9341 Sodal Work Assoc
9342 Asst Sodal Work Assoc
For the Untveratty of California:
SheOey L hBetaan Date
Assistant Director, Labor Rotations
For UPTE-CW':
BtarrWest
id ft
215
APPENDIX F
SIDE LETTER; UC DAVIS
Thia letter ranfinna the perties' understanding that the UCDnvii Medical Center employtei m those classifications identified below will continue to receive pranhnn holiday compensation in acccrdsBcc with the notice regarding " APPROVED PREMIUM COMPENSATION FOR HOLIDAY WORK FOR SELECTED A&PS HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONS" signed by Dennis Shimek on April 23, 1991,
Included Titles:
Code	liflfi
5428	Dietitian I
8938	Senior Clinical Laboratory Scientist Specialist
8939	Clinical Laboratory Scientist Specialist
8940	Clinical Laboratory Scientist
?247	Staff Pbannacist H
9248	Staff Pharmacist I
9306	Licensed Clinical Social Worker
9307	Social Worker fl
9308	Social Worker 1
9473	Speech Pathologist
9498	Occupational Therapist II
9499	Occupational Thsapist I
Signed this 18* day of AogvEt . 2003.
FOR THE UNIVERSITY:	FOR UPTE:
University Chief Negotiator	UPTE Chief Negotiator (HX)
DC Davis
216
APPENDIX G
SIDE LETTER: UC San FrancUeo Holiday*
This letter confirms the parties’ understanding and agreement that all 1 ,'CSF employee* in the HX bargaining unit whose standard work schedule requires that tht y regularly report to work at San Francisco Gmeral Hospital are governed by the holiday calendar of the City and County of San Francisco. While the particular days of obser. ;mce may differ between the University holiday schedule and the City and County of Sn Francisco holiday schedule, the parties agree that the UCSF HX employees al SF UH arc oititled to no less than thirteen (13) administrative holidays per calendar year.
Nettling in this Side Letter shall impact in any way the holidays obsen nd by UCSF HX employees who may, on occasion, be required to report to work at SFC H but whose regular work site is elsewhere.
Signed this davof	2003.
FOR THE UNIVERSITY:
University Chief Negotiator
FOR UPTE:
Gail Garcia
UPTE Chief Negotiator (HX)
UC San Francisco
217
APPENDIX H
SIDE LETTER - Equity Discussion*
Upon the written request of me Union to the Offlco of the President Labor Relatione office, the Universty end UPTE agree to meet Mowing Uis transition to steps In Avgust 2007. The purpose of this meeting it to discuss potential, individual, internal equity concerns.
Two (2) HX employees may be released for these dtscussfona pursuant Io Artfcto 45 -Workplace Committees.
The parties understand that the University Is under no obilgatton to adjust an tndtvMuaTB salary as a result of these dbonslons.
For Iha University of California;
SheDey L Nielsen Assistant Director, Labor Rotations
ForUPTE-CWA;
a Ion West
Steif Representative, CWA
218
APPENDIX I
SIDE LETTER - UCLAAJCLAMC
Experienced Based steps
The parties agree that the following title codes in use at UCLA/UCLAMC wil either remain (In the case of Clinical Lab Scientists and Occupational Therapists) or be placed or, experience based steps effective upon ratification of this agreement.
Clinical Lab Scientist Series - Title Codes 8938,8933,8940
Occupational Therapist Series - Title Codes 9498, 9499
Clinical Social Worker Series - Title Codes 9313,9314, 9315 and 83' 6(Per Diem)
Pharmacist Series - Tide Codes 9247 and 9248
In order to facilitate the ongoing review of experience In each of the titles, the University will use a common date of January 1*of each year to determine the amount of experi ence that an HX employee in any of these titles has attained and will then adjust his/her step, if approprii ite.
For the University of California:
Shelley l. Nielsen
Assistant Director, Labor Relations
For UPTE-CWA:
Ellen West
Staff Representat ve, CWA
219
APPENDIX J
$IDE LETTER - PTO AT UCLA MEDICAL CENTER
A.	Employees in the bargaining unit who are employed by the University of Cafifomta Los Angeles Medical Center (UCLAMC) will continue to be subject to the Paid Time Off (PTO) policy in effect at this location.
B.	Employees covered by this will continue to be exempt from the provisions of Article 38 -Sick Leave and Article 41 • Vacation of this Agreement.
C.	UCLAMC may amend its PTO policy upon thirty (30) days notice tn the local UPTE office.
For the University of California:
Shelley L. Nielsen
Assistant Director, Labor Relations
For UPTE-CWA;
Ellen West
Staff Representative, CWA
220
APPENDIX K
SIDE LETTER-Lump Sum Signing Bonus
’	The Unfretnlts. ■oreel to Iteffeirortt a onMlme tomo-ertm tmount h int paid to efl HX Unit
wnolorees ffawlwHna atW. ftflffiil. J/pfrSttonory ond Mt «m ilareeal in ewhanan tar the Union’e r»IIHeattefl<rftlw UCagtEAflMMWWt
k
Thte lump aum stantCfltxmusta not cwwfctegd wmitw oomaensatan andtherefcre Is not eonaWered eowwd cOTPgnrnftamfar	a* tyff—wjit
ForUPTE-CWA;
Ellen West
Staff Representative, CM A
This ratiftqrtpti. Imrwm jftmfrw twnw In <h» emganutlMiaMM w wmim owwhPWwttHn 1Ham>ma.Dri>c»rfB written
1	' FortttaUraversity of CaHfomla:
ShcSeyL Nielsen
।	Assistant Director, Labor Retatkms
221
APPENDIX L
BIDE LETTER-UNIVERSITY HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
The parties agreed, alter reaching * tentettae agreement on the enGre centred hcfacSng Article 40 -University Health end Welfare Benefit), to remove Section B.6. of Arid* 40 to avoid confusion among the partlee' constituents a* to the meaning of thd Seddon. Trie letter la to darfly tW agreement and w.l servo an a dorffieatton of the understandhg between the partes m to how employee* within the HX Unit would ba handled wfth regard to Health and Wettar* Banana at the 2009 oontrect re-opener end •hod a the contract between the parties expire without * naw agreenwit to replace It In 2011.
1.	The partiec understand that plan diangea may occur, cffwtng* may chenjp. and that the tMdtog and epen enrollment processes wB crmttnue. SpooiteaSy, the tarn* outflned in Section 0.1. of Article 40 wM remain tn piece except Sial the coats (l.» premium costa, co-payments) Io einptoyesa wl not increase <mU expressly morfifiad by mutual agreetnent of both parties or upon cmnptaUon of the MEERA mandated processes.
2.	The pert'ee agpee that the proceei spedfed in perapeph 1 I* In fact how the parties htedtod the health and welfare berwOts <4 HX emptoysee during the 2000 Open BtrdmorX procPM far 2007. Spedflcatty. the premium rates changed end tha salary banctag favela were upchted far aH Other employsM but they remained undiangsd from the 2006 rates and salary bends far HX empfayeas.
3.	n Is farther underttood that the parties wet engage fa re-opener bargaining over ArtkM 40 -unlvoreity Health and Welfare Benefits In 2009 for health end welfare benefits t.; bo rppiiad In calendar year* 2010 and 2011.
For the University of Cslifomia;	For UPTE-CWA

Shelley L Mohan
Assistant Director, Labor Relations

EfcnWM
Staff Reprosontathro, CWA
222
APPENDIX M
Arte* 41 - UrMrafiy Retirement &	PH >*«
(Etfodire through June 30,2009)
UPTE and the UnhwMty are bargaining for ths Research Support Profesatontes LM(RX) and Technical Unk (TX) bargaining unR* regsrtSng employee contribufcna to the UCRP. The pertfo* aM abo anoage in successor nogodationa ft* the RX and TX IMb Jn 2006, which may hctade the topic ol errmtoyM contrbutkme to panston. Therefore. the pert* h ope* to the foeowing:
1. For purpose* of negotiatfog employee contributor* to the UCRp, om (1) HX-Unltenrptoyae shafi be provided reteese torn for bargaining tor purposes of jiaintag RX/TX In negotetiona on Uss subject
Z The smorrt and timing of amptoyoo contributions to the UCF P that become appsctbte to RX end TX employees as a reau* of the above rwferenccl negcUattona (whether the outcome la negotiated to agreement er impoaad by the Unhri iratty m a final roatdt of the HEERA process) *>H apply to HX ampiDyeea In the came mam M thnxgh June 30,2008.
3.	If the RX and TX drift* have drterentorXeomes on th* issue to iny of the above referenced negotiation union* (I*. RX begins on July 1, 2007 add TX w( August 1,2007) the HX Un* will follow the outcome (i.e. amount and toning) of th* borgai1 Ing unit that first conclude* negotiation* over the term* at Issue (whether he terms era readied m the result ef a negodated agreement or an fmpoafiton by the i*«ver*fty as i> final reeul gf IM FEERA ptOOttla)
4.	In the event the outcome for RX and TX indudss mor* than »reinstatement ortho redred and htiudes sdtltonal eorose the board Jncreesae for RX/TX employ*** to exchange tor adddonal employ** contobutons b th* pension plan, than HX irmptoywa* wO recefva those samp hcreesr*.
S.	This Side Latter does not constkute a re-opener of Arild* 41 University Retiramord and Sawing* Plana; however, k does recognise th* understanding nt the ports* tM LPTE-HX employ*** hove the right to engage to a strife* should RXffX also obtain the legal rijH to strike over th* ]**□* of employee conbibuilon* to the pension p i m
6.	Th* University retains the sol* discretion to withhold step toctwiees** y*ar Fa JUy 1,200S step companuticn imnoss should the parties have no reioufic । on the Issue of th* employ** eonbtbuSor to th* perwfon pion bargaining by Jtey 1, JOOfil
Forth* University of California;
Shdey L Nleteen
Assistant Director, Labor Ftotstion*
For UPTE- CWA
ERen Wed
Staff Representative. < WA
223
APPENDIX N
SIDE LETTER-ttiD YEAR Increamb AtUCSFIUCSFUC
The parties agree that UCSFAJCSFMC adjusted the value of the final step for each of the fallowing ttt)M effective on December 1, 2D07 m identified below:
Nudeer Med Tech, Sr. - Title Code 9003 - $51 .57
Psychometrtst - Title Code 9393 - $21.76
Social Work Associate - Title Code 9341- $26.12
Social Work Associate, Asst. - Title Code 9342 - 323.97
CMd Development Awodste - Tttie Code 9345 - 334.91
Ciinfcai SocfaJ Water III - Title Code 9313 - 347 39
Clinical Social Worker it - TWe Code 9314 ~ $44.03
The perttea further agree that UCSF/UCSFMC adjusted the rates/rangee far the fattawtng Wee affective September 23, 2007 a* jdentifbd below:
PhamacM, Staff II - Title Code 9247
380.07,361,90. 363.17, $64.46, $65.70, $67.09
Phenmeciet Steffi -Title Code 9246
$59.43, $80.65, $61.88, $63.15, $64.40, $85.78
Pharmectet, Sr. - Title Code 9246
$60.80,362 04, $83.31, $64.60, $65.90, $6X21, $68.56, $69.93, $71.33
For the University of California:	For UPTE-CWA:
^/m	[, w 9^
Shetey L. Nleisan	Wendi Fetson
AasMart Director. Labor Relations	UPTE Systemwide HX Coordinator
224
INDEX
SUBJECT	CA@E
AGREEMENT............................................................................1‘2
Purpose.........................................................................  1
Exclusive Representative......................................................... 1
Employee Defined................................................................. 1
Creation of New Classifications.................................................. 1
Reclassification From Unit to Non-Unit Positions...............................   2
Abolition of Classes............................................................  2
ACCESS.............................................................................  2-6
General Provisions.............................................................   2
Patient Care Areas............................................................... 2,	3
Access By The UnionAJnion Representatives - General Provisions................... 3
Employee Representatives...................................................... 3,4
Meeting Rooms and Bulletin Boards...............................................  4
Mail Delivery...................................................................  5
Telephone Use.................................................................... 5
E-Mail Use....................................................................... 5
Employee Lists..................................................................  5
Distribution of Agreement.......................................................  5
New Employee Orientation........................................................  6
ARBITRATION PROCEDURE.............................................................. 6-12
General Conditions............................................................... 6
Time Limits.............................................................. 6-7
Initial Filing........................................................  6
University Acknowledgment of Receipt................................... 6
Scheduling Of The Hearing Date........................................  7
UPTE Request That A Grievance Be Placed In Abeyance.................... 7
Definitions...................................................................... 7
Grievant................................................................... 7
Witness.................................................................... 7
Employee Representative.................................................... 7
UPTE Representative.......................................................  7
The Parties................................................................ 7
Employee Representation.......................................................... 7
Selection Of Arbitrator........................................................ 7-8
Scope Of Arbitration........................................................... 8-9
Arbitration Proceeding........................................................... 9
Authority Of The Arbitrator.....................................................  9
Arbitration Remedies............................................................ 10
Cost of Arbitration............................................................. 10
Pay Status..................................................................  10-11
Expedited Arbitration..........................................................  11
Arbitration Panel............................................................... 11
CAMPUS CLOSURE...................................................................... 12
General Provisions............................................................. 12
Pay Status..................................................................... 12
COMPENSATION..................................................................... 12-16
Year One Zone Compensation................................................... 12-14
Zone Implementation....................................................... 14
Year Two -July 1,2007 Transition to Step Compensation.......................... 14
Year Three- July 1, 2008 Step Compensation..................................  14-15
Year Four and Five-July 1, 2009 and 2010 Step Compensation....................  15
Annual Market Equity Local Discussions...................................... 15-16
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.......................................... 16
Other Increases...............................................................  16
Bonus And Incentive Awards....................................................  16
CORRECTIVE ACTION, DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE...................................... 16-18
General Provisions............................................................  16
Type of Activity.............................................................   16
Demotion....................................................................... 17
Investigatory Leave............................................................ 17
Notice......................................................................... 17
225
Employee Response.........................................................   17
Personnel Records............................................................1®
Representation.............................................................  1®
UNION DUES AND AGENCY FEE DEDUCTIONS.......................................... 18-20
General Conditions.......................................................... 1®
Dues And Fees............................................................... 18
Union Dues............................................................ 18
Agency Fees........................................................... 19
Processing Payroll Deductions For Dues And Fees............................. 19
Correction Of Errors........................................................ 19
Other Deductions............................................................ 19
Indemnification............................................................. 20
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE........................................................... 20-26
General Conditions.......................................................... 20
Filing............................................................. 20-21
Terms/Definitions...............................................•..... 21
Employee Representation..................................................... 21
Time Limits.............................................................. 21-22
Grievants Who Have Resigned................................................. 22
Grievance Procedure - Informal Review......................................  22
Grievance Procedure - Formal Review......................................... 22
Step 1............................................................. 22-23
University Review..............................................  22
Sexual Harassment Complaint Resolution Procedures............... 22
Step 2................................................................ 23
Step 3............................................................. 23-24
Appeals To Arbitration................................................ 24
Union Grievances............................................................ 24
Group Grievance............................................................. 24
Consolidation of Grievances................................................. 24
Offers of Settlement........................................................ 24
Retroactivity............................................................... 24
Exclusive Procedure......................................................... 24
Release Time And Pay Status For Grievants, Employee Representatives And/Or Witnesses............................................................ 25
University-Convened Meetings.......................................... 25
Exclusion Of Limited Appointment Employees And Probationary Employees........25
Other Representation..................................................... 25-26
Grievance File.............................................................. 26
Review of Grievances Closed For Procedural Defects.......................... 26
HEALTH AND SAFETY............................................................. 26-27
General Conditions.......................................................... 26
Assignments................................................................. 26
Related Grievances....................................................... 26-27
HOLIDAYS...................................................................... 27-29
University Holidays......................................................... 27
Persona! Holiday For Employees At Medical Center/Hospital Locations.......27-28
Holiday Time Pay............................................................ 28
Compensation For Holidays............................................. 28
Pay For Holidays Worked............................................... 28
Holiday Time As Compensatory Time.................................. 28-29
Religious Observance........................................................ 29
Temporary Layoff............................................................ 29
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory....................................... 29
HOURS OF WORK................................................................. 29-34
Exempt Employees............................................................ 29
Accounting For Time Not Worked........................................ 29
Non-Exempt Employees..................................................... 30-33
Workweek............................................................   30
Work Schedule......................................................... 30
Shift Coverage........................................................ 30
Alternate Work Schedules.............................................. 30
Posting Of Schedules............................................... 30-31
Shift Preference...................................................... 31
Meal Periods.......................................................... 31
Rest Periods.......................................................... 31
226
Changing And Clean-up Time............................................... 31
Travel Time.............................................................  31
Call Back................................................................ 31
On-Call.................................................................. 31
Overtime.............................................................  32-33
Assignment Of Overtime...........................................  32
Compensation Of Overtime....................................... 32-33
Compensatory Time................................................. 33
General Provisions............................................................. 33
Consecutive Days Of Work..................................................   33-34
Rest Between Shifts............................................................ 34
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.......................................... 34
JOB POSTING......................................................................... 34
LAYOFF AND REDUCTION IN TIME..................................................... 34-40
General........................................................................ 34
Definitions................................................................. 34-35
Temporary Layoff...........................................................  35-36
Alternatives To Layoff..................................................  35
Notice..................................................................  35
Conversion Of Temporary To Indefinite Layoff............................. 36
Indefinite Layoff........................................................... 36-40
Alternatives To Layoff................................................    36
Selection For Layoff..................................................    36
Notice................................................................... 37
Recall............................................................... 337-38
Preference For Reemployment.............................................. 38
Severance................................................................ 39
Reduced Severance (with Preference and Recall)................. 39-40
Continuity Of Service Upon Reemployment......................................   40
Benefit Coverage.............................................................   40
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.........................................  40
LEAVES OF ABSENCE................................................................ 40-51
General Provisions.......................................................... 40-42
Definitions........................................................... 40-41
Use Of Family Care And Medical Leave Entitlement..........................41
Benefit Eligibility While On Leave Without Pay..........................  41
Requests For Leave....................................................... 41
Duration................................................................. 41
Return T o Work.........................................................  42
Family Care And Medical Leave............................................... 42-48
Definitions..........................................................  42-43
Eligibility Criteria And Duration......................................   43
Notification........................................................   43-44
Certification........................................................  44-46
Return From Family Care/Medical Leave For Own Health Condition............46
Use Of Accrued Paid Leave...............................................  46
Duration.............................................................. 46-47
Parental Leave..........................................................  47
Continuation Of Health Benefits.....................................   47-48
Return To Work..........................................................  48
Pregnancy Disability Leave.................................................. 48-49
Duration................................................................. 48
Reduced Work Schedule.................................................... 49
Return To Work..........................................................  49
Continuation of Benefits................................................  49
Disability Leaves Other Than FMLA/CFRA/Pregnancy Disability Entitle: <ient...49-50
Eligibility.............................................................. 49
Duration.............................................................  49-50
Return To Work..........................................................  50
Personal Leave Of Absence Without Pay.......................................... 50
Leaves of Absence With Pay.................................................. 50-51
Jury Duty..............................................................   50
Voting................................................................... 50
Blood Donations.......................................................... 50
Administrative Or Legal Proceedings................................... 50-51
Emergencies.............................................................  51
UniversityFunctions...................................................... 51
227
Shift Differential When On Paid Leave....................................... 74
Shift Assignments To Titles Without Established Shift Differential Rates.....74
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory....................................... 74
SICK LEAVE.................................................................... 75-78
Accumulation Of Sick Leave Credit........................................... 75
Sick Leave Credit Table (Number of Hours on Pay Status)..................... 75
Eligibility And Use Of Accumulated Sick Leave............................ 75-77
General Provisions................................................ 75-76
Exempt Employees................................................ 76
Non-Exempt Employees...........................................  76
Pregnancy............................................................ 76
Care Of Others....................................................... 76
Bereavement.......................................................... 76
Illness While On Vacation............................................ 77
Sick Leave Pay.............................................................. 77
Sick Leave Notification And Verification.................................... 77
Transfer And Reinstatement Of Sick Leave................................. 77-78
Transfer/Promotion/Demotion To Positions Covered By This Agreement..77-78
Reemployment In Positions Covered By This Agreement.................. 78
Transfer/Promotion/Demotion To Positions Not Covered
By This Agreement.................................................... 78
Conversion Of Sick Leave On Retirement...................................... 78
Catastrophic Leave.......................................................... 78
SUBCONTRACTING................................................................ 78-80
General Provisions......................................................  78-79
Displacement Of Employees................................................... 79
Effect Of Contract On Employees.......................................... 79-80
Legislation/Supplemental Budget Language.................................... 80
TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT............................................................. 80
General Provisions.......................................................... 80
Reimbursements.............................................................. 80
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory....................................... 80
UNIFORMS...................................................................... 80-81
General Provisions.......................................................... 80
Purchasing And Reimbursement................................................ 80
Laundering.................................................................. 81
UNIVERSITY HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS........................................ 81-82
General Conditions.......................................................... 81
Effect Of Absences From Work On Benefits.................................... 81
Temporary Layoff/Temporary Reduction In Time/Furiough.................81
Military Leave....................................................... 81
Leaves Of Absence Without Pay..................................... 81-82
Enumeration Of University Benefits.......................................... 82
Joint Benefits Committee.................................................... 82
Reduced Fee Enrollments....................................................  82
UNIVERSITY RETIREMENT AND SAVINGS PLANS....................................... 82-83
General Conditions.......................................................... 82
Retirement and Savings Plans............................................  82-83
Effects of Leaves of Absence................................................ 83
Leaves of Absence Without Pay........................................ 83
Family Medical Leave Act............................................. 83
Enumeration of University Retirement And Savings Plans...................... 83
VACATION...................................................................... 83-86
Vacation Credit.......................................................... 83-85
Vacation Scheduling......................................................... 85
Vacation Leave Records...................................................... 85
Exempt Employees..................................................... 85
Non-Exempt Employees................................................. 85
Vacation Credit Use......................................................... 85
Vacation Maximums........................................................... 85
Vacation Pay............................................................. 85-86
Transfer Of Vacation Credit................................................  86
Donations For Catastrophic Leave............................................ 86
230
WAIVER.
86
WORK RULES............................................................. 86
WORK-INCURRED INJURY OR ILLNESS..................................... 86-88
General Provisions.............................................. 86-87
Return From Work-Incurred Injury Or Illness Leave...................87
Use Of Sick Leave And Vacation..................................... 87
Extended Sick Leave................................................ 87
Effect On Other Contract Provisions............................. 87-88
Light Duty Program................................................. 88
WORKPLACE COMMITTEES................................................ 88-90
Local Labor-Management Meetings................................. 88-89
University-Wide Labor-Management Meetings........................   89
One General Meeting And One Benefits Meeting................. 89
General Meeting.........................................  89
Benefits Meeting........................................  89
Release Time................................................  89
Local Professional Practice Committees.........................  89-90
General Provisions.....................................    89-90
Release Time................................................. 90
DURATION............................................................ 90-91
Duration..........................................................  90
Negotiation Of A Successor Agreement................................90
Agreement Re-Opener..............................................90-91
RESPECTFUL AND FAIR TREATMENT.......................................... 91
MEMORANDUM OF THE NEGOTIATORS.......................................... 92
CONTRACT EXECUTION..................................................... 93
APPENDIX A	 94
APPENDIX B	208
APPENDIX C	 211
APPENDIX D.....	 213
APPENDIX E	 215
APPENDIX F	 216
APPENDIX G.....	217
APPENDIX H.....	 218
APPENDIX 1	 219
APPENDIX J.....	220
APPENDIX K	 221
APPENDIX L.....,	222
APPENDIX M.....	223
APPENDIX N.....	224
231