Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Clark, County of and Service Employees International Union (SEIU), Local 1107 (2003) (MOA)
K#: 820817
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE
COUNTY OF CLARK REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION OF SOUTHERN NEVADA CLARK COUNTY LAW LIBRARY CLARK COUNTY REGIONAL FLOOD CONTROL DISTRICT AND CLARK COUNTY WATER RECLAMATION DISTRICT
AND
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1107
APRIL 2, 2003
TO
JUNE 30, 2006
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article	Page
1	Agreement............................................................. 01
2	Intent................................................................ 01
3	Recognition........................................................... 01
4	Discrimination Clause................................................. 03
5	Anti Strike Clause.................................................... 03
6	Management Rights..................................................... 03
7	Employee Rights....................................................... 04
8	Union Rights.......................................................... 05
9	Employee Deductions................................................... 09
10	Labor/Management and Safety Committees................................ 10
11	Dispute Resolution.................................................... 12
12	Certification Pay/Bilingual	Pay....................................... 17
13	Personnel Layoff...................................................... 19
14	Basic Workweek........................................................ 22
15	Compensation.......................................................... 25
16	Appointment, Rehire, Promotion, Transfer, and Demotion................ 26
17	Posting of Vacancies.................................................. 28
18	Overtime, Call Back and Standby Pay................................... 29
19	Shift Differential.................................................... 31
20	Acting Pay............................................................ 32
21	Salary Adjustment..................................................... 32
22	Holidays.............................................................. 35
23	Vacation.............................................................. 37
24	Sick Leave............................................................ 38
25	Miscellaneous Leaves.................................................. 43
26	Benefit Eligibility................................................... 44
27	Service Connected Disability.......................................... 45
28	Retirement Contribution............................................... 46
29	Group Insurance....................................................... 46
30	Life Insurance........................................................ 47
31	Long Term Disability Insurance........................................ 48
32	Longevity............................................................. 48
33	Private Automobiles................................................... 49
34	Tools and Uniforms.................................................... 49
35	Time and Attendance................................................... 51
36	Substance Abuse Policy................................................ 52
37	Entire Agreement...................................................... 62
38	Conflicting Agreements................................................ 62
39	General Savings Clause................................................ 63
40	Excess Deferred Compensation.......................................... 63
41 Methods of Employee Classification...................................... 64
42 Shift Assignment ....................................................... 65
43 Term of Agreement....................................................... 66
Appendix A................................................................. 68
Appendix B...........................................................
Appendix C...........................................................
Appendix D...........................................................
Appendix E...........................................................
Appendix F ..........................................................
Appendix G...........................................................
ARTICLE 1
Agreement
This Agreement is made and entered into this 2nd day of April, 2003 by and between the SEIU, Local 1107, hereinafter referred to as the “Union” and the County of Clark, a government entity of the State of Nevada, Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada, Clark County Law Library, Clark County Regional Flood Control District, and Clark County Water Reclamation District, hereinafter referred to as the “County”.
ARTICLE 2 Intent
It is the purpose of this Agreement to promote and provide a responsible labor relations policy between the County and the employees covered herein; to secure an orderly and equitable disposition of grievances which may arise under the Agreement; and to set forth the full and entire understanding of the parties reached as a result of good faith negotiations regarding the wages, hours, and other specified conditions of employment of the employees covered hereby. It is intended by the provisions of this Agreement that there be no abrogation of the duties, obligations or responsibilities of the County expressly provided for by federal law, state statutes, and/or local ordinances, except as expressly limited herein.
ARTICLE 3 Recognition
1.	The County hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining representative of the County employees assigned to the classifications listed in Appendix A who are eligible to be represented by the Union except as limited by Section 2 of this Article. The Union shall be notified of additions to the list of classifications (Appendix A), within seven (7) days of posting for the position classification and shall receive 30 days advance notice of any deletions. Upon written request by the Union, the parties shall meet and confer regarding deletions within the 30 day notification period referenced herein. Both parties recognize that the Union retains its right to appeal under the provisions of NRS 288.170.
2.	County employees who are excluded from the bargaining unit are as follows:
a.	Those employees certified to another bargaining unit under the provisions of NRS Chapter 288.
b.	Elected officials.
c.	Administrative employees.
1
d.	Employees of Clark County Human Resources and all other confidential employees.
e.	Employees exempted in accordance with NRS 245.216 and NRS 3.310.
f.	Probationary employees.
g.	Temporary employees.
h.	Part-time hourly employees.
i.	Volunteers.
3.	Subject to the provisions of NRS 288, the County reserves the right to withdraw recognition of the Union in the event the Union:
a.	Fails to present a copy of each change in its constitution or bylaws, if any, or to give notice of any change in the roster of its officers, if any, and representatives;
b.	Disavows its pledge not to strike against the local government employer under any circumstances;
c.	Ceases to be supported by a majority of the local government employees in the bargaining unit for which it is recognized;
d.	Fails to negotiate in good faith with the local government employer.
Such action shall only be taken if the County first receives the written permission of the Local Government Employee-Management Relations Board.
4.	On a monthly basis, the County shall provide to the Union the following related to County employees eligible for inclusion within the unit:
a.	New hires by name, home address, classification, and department.
b.	Employees separated from employment. The report shall indicate the classification, department and the date of the action.
c.	Employees being transferred or promoted. The report shall indicate the date of the action as well as the classification and department prior to and at the completion of the action.
On a quarterly basis, the County shall provide to the Union a complete list of County
2
employees eligible for inclusion in the unit, and shall indicate classification and department for each employee listed. All information is furnished for the exclusive use of the Union and shall not be used for any other purpose or be given to any other person or organization without the express written approval of the employee involved. The County shall allow the Union 30 minutes to present information at each New Employee Orientation.
ARTICLE 4 Discrimination Clause
The County, the Union, and any other party bound by this Agreement shall each apply the provisions of this Agreement equally to all employees in the Union without discrimination as to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, physical or visual handicap, national origin or because of political or personal reasons or affiliations.
ARTICLE 5 Anti-Strike Clause
The Union agrees not to strike, nor to endorse, support, assist or encourage in any way any individual employee or group of employees to participate in any strike against the County.
ARTICLE 6 Management Rights
1.	The County is entitled, without negotiation, to the sole right and authority to operate and direct the affairs of the County in all its various aspects. Those rights include but are not limited to the following:
a.	To hire, direct, promote, assign, transfer, or take disciplinary action against any employee, but excluding the right to assign or transfer as a form of discipline. Transfers and reassignments for the improvement of personnel staffing and utilization shall not be deemed a form of discipline.
b.	To reduce in force or lay off any employee because of lack of work or lack of funds. In exercising this right, the local government employer shall comply with all other applicable provisions of NRS, if any.
c.	To determine:
(1)	Appropriate staffing levels and work performance standards, except for safety considerations;
3
(2)	The content of the workday, including without limitation workload factors, except for safety considerations;
(3)	The quality and quantity of services to be offered to the public;
(4)	The means and methods of offering those services; and
(5)	The supplier of goods and services. No permanent employee will be laid off as an initial result of contracting goods and services.
d.	To maintain the efficiency of its governmental operations.
e.	To determine the methods, means, and personnel by which its operations are to be conducted; and
f.	To take whatever actions may be necessary to carry out its responsibilities in situations of emergency.
2.	All rights and responsibilities of the County not specifically modified by the Agreement shall remain the functions of the County. The above enumerated management rights shall not contravene the expressed terms of this Agreement and shall be subject thereto.
ARTICLE 7
Employee Rights
1.	The County and the Union agree that employees eligible for membership in the Union shall have and shall be protected in the exercise of their right freely and without fear of penalty and reprisal, to form, join, and participate in authorized and appropriate Union functions. The freedom of such employees to assist the Union shall be recognized as extending to participation in the management of the Union in the capacity of a Union officer or steward, including, following notification of the appropriate management representatives, presentation of its views to the officials of the County. The County shall not interfere, restrain, or discriminate against any employee exercising his/her rights under this Section.
2.	The County shall provide bulletin boards of at least 24 x 36 inches for use by the Union to enable employees in the bargaining unit to see notices posted thereon when reporting to or leaving their work stations or during their break periods.
3.	All notices which appear on the Union's bulletin boards shall be posted by the highest ranking local Union official or their designee, as identified in writing and shall relate to items of interest to the members. Union notices relating to the
4
following matters may be posted without the necessity of receiving the County management representative's prior approval:
a.	Union recreational and social affairs;
b.	Notice of Union meetings;
c.	Union officers and committee appointments;
d.	Notice of Union elections;
e.	Results of Union elections;
f.	Reports of standing committees and independent arms of the Union; and
g.	Publications, rulings or policies of the Union.
4.	All other notices of any kind not covered by (a) through (g) above must receive the prior approval of the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director. It is also understood that no material may be posted on bulletin boards at any time which contain the following:
a.	Personal attacks upon any other member or any other employee;
b.	Scandalous, scurrilous or derogatory attacks upon the administration;
c.	Attacks on any other employee organization, regardless of whether the organization has local membership; and
d.	Attacks on and/or favorable comments regarding a candidate for a partisan political office within County government.
ARTICLE 8 Union Rights
1.	Union stewards will be designated by the Union. The number of stewards allowable will be determined in the following manner:
a.	The Union may designate a minimum of one (1) steward for each department. The following table represents the number of stewards allowed per the number of eligible employees within a department:
Departments with less than 200	Number of
eligible employees	Stewards
5
0-75	1
76-150	2
151 -199	3
Departments with 200 or more eligible employees	Number of Stewards
200 - 299	3
300 - 399	4
400 - 499	5
Each additional 100 or part thereof	+1
There may be up to three (3) additional Union stewards, that are to be assigned to represent County employees in remote work locations that do not have a steward assigned to that location.
b.	The Union may designate one (1) Chief Steward, who is allocated eight (8) hours paid time off per calendar week to accomplish general Union business, for an additional and individual bargaining unit created in SEIU Local 1107. In addition to the Chief Steward, the following table will be used to assign stewards to the additional bargaining unit:
Unit with less than 300 eligible employees	Number of Stewards
0-75	1
76-150	2
151 -225	3
226 - 300	4
c.	Within 30 days of the signing of this Agreement, the Union shall provide the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director, in writing, a complete list of stewards and elected officers, and indicate their departmental assignments. The Union will notify the County, in writing, within 10 working days of any change regarding stewards or elected officers.
2.	All stewards shall submit a leave request form to notify and receive approval for release from duty from their immediate supervisors each time they need to conduct a Union activity or business. A copy of all request forms approved for the release of duty for Union activities and business shall be sent immediately to Clark County Human Resources and the Union. Stewards shall be relieved of duty unless operational demands prohibit granting the request. Use of steward time shall not be abused by the employee and use of said time will not be unreasonably withheld by the immediate supervisor. An alternate Union steward may serve in the absence of the departmental steward(s) or the chief steward who is on authorized leave or is otherwise unavailable.
6
3.	Union business shall include the representation of employees at meetings scheduled and held with the department director or designee, grievance review hearings, termination hearings, attendance at the Labor/Management and Safety Committee meetings and the monthly Union steward meetings. Any other Union related activities shall be deducted from the hours defined in Section 7.
4.	Only one (1) steward shall be allowed to represent an employee at a meeting or hearing during any one shift. In the case of a newly elected or duly appointed steward, that steward shall have the opportunity to accompany a steward at a meeting or hearing as an observer. A newly elected or duly appointed steward shall be considered a steward who is within 90 days of being elected or appointed. A steward’s attendance at such meetings or hearings shall be subject to the terms of this Agreement. An employee is entitled to be represented by a Union steward at all meetings where discipline is given in writing. After being notified of an impending investigatory interview, or a meeting at which discipline is to be given in writing, the affected employee may elect to have a Union representative present. In addition, if during the course of a meeting an employee has reasonable belief that disciplinary action will result from a meeting with management then an employee may request a Union steward attend the meeting as his/her representative. If an employee’s departmental steward(s) or chief steward is not available and the employee requests Union representation, a steward from another department may represent the employee. The Union or the employee shall designate the steward who will represent an employee at a meeting or hearing. Monthly Union steward meetings shall be held no earlier than 4:00 p.m. The Union shall furnish the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director a copy of the record of attendance of the steward meeting.
5.	Two (2) non-employee representatives of the Union may meet with an employee on County work premises for the purpose of preparing for a grievance or arbitration hearing during the employee's work hours once the employee has requested to be released from duty through the leave request form process. Other Union business conducted by non-employee representatives must be conducted during the employee's work breaks or lunch period.
6.	Union activities and business shall not interfere with any employee's duties. All stewards, and non-employee representatives must notify and obtain permission from an employee's immediate supervisor before entering the work area during working hours to meet with an employee. Upon entering the work area during breaks or lunch periods, stewards and non-employee representatives must identify themselves and make arrangements to meet with a particular employee.
7.	For each separate fiscal year covered by the term of this Agreement, the Union will be allocated a total of 1,250 hours leave without loss of pay for designated Union members to investigate grievances, attend conferences, legislative sessions or
7
conventions, and other Union business not specified in Section 3. Effective July 3, 2003, this allocation will increase to 1,500 hours per year. The distribution of these hours between bargaining units will be determined by the Union. Per Diem and/or travel shall not be provided by the County. Such leave shall not be cumulative from fiscal year to fiscal year. The County shall not be responsible for any industrial injury claims resulting from activities performed on behalf of the Union away from County work locations during normal duty hours.
8.	The Union shall be represented during negotiation sessions by a negotiating committee of not more than ten (10) Union members at any time, designated by the Union. Committee members shall be granted leave from duty with full pay on the day of negotiation sessions with the County for all meetings held for the purpose of renegotiating the terms of this contract when such meetings take place at a time when such members are scheduled to be on duty.
9.	Union President/Chief Stewards
a.	If the Union President is an employee of the County, he/she shall be scheduled 40 hours paid time off per calendar week to accomplish general Union business. As a practical matter for employment record keeping, the Union President will be assigned to the department head of the department in which he/she is employed. The Union President will keep their department head informed of their whereabouts and activities and will continue to follow vacation and sick leave request, approval and usage policies. Up to 4 chief steward(s), as designated by the Union, shall be scheduled in the aggregate amount of 20 hours paid time off per calendar week to accomplish general Union business. Once appointed, the chief stewards shall be scheduled by the Union and such schedule shall not be changed, unless 30 days advance notice of the change is given by the Union to the County. The Union shall notify the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director, in writing, of the chief stewards’ schedules and changes related thereto. The chief stewards will be assigned to their supervisor and will be required to adhere to their established schedules for work and Union business. Chief stewards will continue to follow vacation and sick leave request, approval and usage policies. The scheduling of such leave will be at the discretion of the chief steward’s supervisor and must be approved in writing before it is used.
b.	If the Union President is not an employee of the County, up to four (4) chief stewards, as designated by the Union, shall be scheduled in the aggregate amount of 32 hours paid time off per calendar week to accomplish general Union business. Once appointed, the chief stewards shall be scheduled by the Union and such schedule shall not be changed, unless 30 days advance notice of the change is given by the Union to the County. The Union shall notify the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director, in writing, of the chief stewards’ schedules and changes related thereto. The chief stewards
8
will be assigned to their supervisor and will be required to adhere to their established schedules for work and union business. Chief stewards will continue to follow vacation and sick leave request, approval and usage policies. The scheduling of such leave will be at the discretion of the chief steward’s supervisor and must be approved in writing before it is used.
c.	Union business, as defined in Section 3 of this Article, shall be coordinated between the County and the chief steward to encourage their participation in such meetings when on paid leave status. In the event the employer schedules a meeting or hearing at a date or time when the chief steward is on duty, the chief steward shall be permitted to attend such meeting and such attendance shall not be charged to the bank hours under Section 7 of this Article.
10.	An employee will not be compensated for participating in Union activities, business or attendance at negotiation meetings outside of his/her scheduled shift.
ARTICLE 9
Employee Deductions
1.	The County shall deduct from the wages of those employees who are members of the Union and pay over to the proper officers of the Union any monies which the Union advises may be due it from such members, provided that the employee who is a member of the Union has individually and voluntarily authorized such deductions to be made. The form of authorization shall be approved by the County and the Union.
2.	The County agrees not to honor any checkoff authorizations or dues deduction authorizations executed by any employee in the bargaining unit in favor of any other labor organization or organization representing employees for purposes of negotiation for wages, hours, and working conditions, and other fringe benefits for its members unless otherwise authorized by the Local Government EmployeeManagement Relations Board.
3.	The Union agrees to indemnify, defend and hold the County harmless against any and all claims or suits that may arise out of or by reason of action taken by the County in reliance upon any authorization cards submitted by the Union to the County. The Union agrees to refund to the County any amounts paid to it in error on account of the payroll deduction provision upon presentation of proper evidence of error or mistake.
4.	Dues deduction authorization shall be irrevocable for a period of one (1) year and automatically renewed each year thereafter commencing October 1, except that authorization may be withdrawn by an employee during the month of October of
9
each year. Such provision will appear on the Membership Application and Dues Deduction Authorization Card. If dues deduction authorization is not revoked during such period it shall continue until the following October.
5.	The Union will certify to Clark County Human Resources, in writing, the current rate of membership dues. The County will be notified of any change in the rate of membership dues 30 days prior to the effective date of such change. Dues shall be remitted per pay period to the Union by Clark County. Along with the remittance, the County will provide the Union, in electronic format, a listing of the bargaining unit employees with social security numbers and the dues amount paid.
a. If the County is notified of a 75% or more increase in Union dues, it may require that each member re-sign dues authorization cards, reflecting the amount of increase.
6.	The County will not be required to honor for any month's deduction any authorizations that are delivered to it later than seven (7) days prior to the second payday of the month.
7.	If an employee-member transfers to another bargaining unit position from one County department to another, he/she shall be continued on the dues deduction rolls.
ARTICLE 10
Labor/Management and Safety Committees
1.	The Labor/Management Committee shall be composed of Twelve (12) employees -Six (6) members, from different departments, representing both the Supervisory and Non Supervisory units of the Union and Six (6) members, from different departments, representing management. Union committee members shall be appointed by the Union President; management committee members shall be appointed by the Clark County Manager or his/her designee. Members of the committee shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing party. The meetings will be held monthly, or less frequently as determined by the parties, on mutually agreed dates and times and shall be for the purposes of:
a.	Discussing the administration of this Agreement;
b.	Exchanging general information of interest to the parties;
c.	Giving the Union representatives the opportunity to share the views of their members and/or make suggestions on subjects of interest to their members; and
10
d.	Discuss and develop procedures for publicizing the programs available within the County that will provide training for employees including those programs that may lead to promotional opportunities within the organization.
e.	The committee shall reduce any recommendations arising from their deliberations to writing and forward same to the County Manager. The County Manager or his/her designee shall respond in writing to the committee and the President of the Union as to the County’s disposition of any such recommendations.
2.	The Labor/Management Committee shall have no authority to:
a.	Make any decisions binding the parties;
b.	Bargain for the parties on any issue; or,
c.	Determine disposition of any grievance(s).
3.	The parties recognize that, if both parties agree (department head and the union), an equally seated Department level Labor Management Committee may be created to discuss issues germane and relevant to the respective department. All issues discussed within the purview of these committees will be limited to departmental matters. The committee may not address issues beyond the scope of the department.
4.	a. The County will continue to undertake all reasonable efforts to provide for employee health and safety in accordance with all laws applicable to its operations concerning the safety of employees covered by this Agreement. All such employees shall comply with all safety rules and regulations established by the County.
b.	In order to facilitate this policy, the Safety Committee shall be composed of ten (10) employees, five (5) members, from different departments, representing the Union and five (5) members, from different departments, representing management. Union committee members shall be appointed by the Union President; management committee members shall be appointed by the Clark County Manager or his/her designee. The parties will alternate the chairing of the committee.
c.	The Union may appoint one (1) Union safety representative in each department to discuss safety issues and concerns with other employees of the department. Meetings of these representatives shall only occur while they are off duty, in leave status, or using Union bank hours.
d.	The Safety Committee shall meet monthly, or less frequently as determined
11
by the parties, on mutually agreed dates and times to discuss and make recommendations on the maintenance of proper safety standards, the responsibility of employees concerning safety practices, and to give input in the development of overall accident prevention programs and elements. Agenda items will be prepared and submitted to the office of Risk Management one (1) week prior to the scheduled meeting.
e.	Recommendations on changes to safety practices, equipment and/or facilities shall be prepared by the chairperson and forwarded to the appropriate department head for response. If the department head fails to respond or to satisfy the recommendation within 60 days from the date received, the recommendation may be forwarded by agreement of the committee to the County Manager. The County Manager's decision is final.
4.	To facilitate the adjustment of work schedules, the committee will notify all members and their immediate supervisors of the dates and times of committee meetings immediately upon the parties reaching mutual agreement as to the date of any such meeting.
5.	Union committee members shall not lose pay for time spent in any meetings authorized by the provisions of this Article. Time spent in any meeting authorized by the provisions of this Article shall be counted as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime only if the time spent falls within the employee's regularly scheduled work hours.
ARTICLE 11
Dispute Resolution Procedures
1.	A grievance is defined as a filed dispute between the Union, on behalf of an employee(s), and the County over the interpretation and/or application of the express terms of this Agreement or a dispute over the issuance of discipline as defined herein. A grievance shall not be defined to include any matter or action taken by the County or its representatives for which the NERC has jurisdiction or any matter specifically excluded from grievance and arbitration by other provisions of this Agreement. Disputes specifically excluded in other Articles of this Agreement from the dispute resolution procedures shall not be construed as within the purview of this Article.
2.	If mutually agreed, either party may request, in writing, a waiver of the time limitations set forth in this Article. A grievance shall be considered abandoned if not filed and processed by the Union on behalf of the employee, where indicated in accordance with the time limitations. Failure on the part of the County to respond to a grievance in accordance with the time limits set forth in this Agreement shall result in the grievance advancing to the next step of the procedure. The failure on the part
12
of management to process a grievance will be given serious weight in the resolution or retroactivity of an award. A waiver of timeliness requested by the Union will be taken into consideration in the determination of any retroactive award.
3.	No prejudicial, discriminatory or retaliatory action may be taken, at any time, by the Union or the County against any person for his/her participation in or statements made in the investigation or settlement of a grievance.
4.	For the purpose of resolving grievances at the earliest possible point in time, both parties will make full disclosure of the facts and evidence which bear on the grievance, including but not limited to furnishing copies of evidence, documents, reports, written statements and witnesses relied upon to support their basis of action. Both parties agree to share such facts and evidence at least one (1) working day prior to Step 1 or Step 2 meetings and at least three (3) working days prior to a Step 3 Hearing. An arbitrator will not consider any evidence from a party who willfully failed to produce such evidence in support of his/her position.
5.	Progressive Discipline Definitions are located in the Definition Section - Appendix F Section 2.
Section 1	- Definition of Discipline
1.	Discipline is defined as an employee’s written reprimand, final written warning, demotion, or involuntary termination from County service. Any matters for which the NERC or Office of Diversity (OOD) of the Clark County Manager’s Office has jurisdiction will be handled through a separate procedure identified in this Article, Section 3, NERC/OOD Procedure.
2.	Arbitrators used for written reprimands, final written warnings, demotions, and involuntary terminations of this Article shall be jointly selected by the parties. The arbitrator must meet the requirements established in the Arbitrator Guidelines. The fees of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Union and the County.
3.	The arbitrator shall conduct a grievance proceeding adhering to the mutually developed guidelines governing the process. The arbitrator will consider the incident and the discipline in terms of severity of the action, evidence of progressive discipline and appropriateness of the disciplinary action. Progressive discipline is defined to include documented oral warning, admonishment, one (1) or more written reprimand(s), a final written warning and, thereafter, termination. The Union recognizes the need for more severe initial disciplinary action in the event of major violation of established rules, regulations or policies of the County or its operating departments. The decision to uphold the disciplinary action will be based on the reasonableness of the discipline imposed by the supervisor in response to the actions taken or not taken by the employee.
13
4.	All written reprimands, final written warnings, demotions and involuntary termination appeals of employees covered by this Agreement shall be handled solely in accordance with the procedure set forth in this Section, with the decision of the arbitrator being final and binding on the parties.
5.	No employee who has satisfactorily completed probation may be demoted or terminated without just cause. Just cause may include, but not be limited to: inefficiency, incompetence, insubordination, moral turpitude, mental or physical disability as shown by competent medical evidence, habitual or excessive tardiness or absenteeism, abuse of sick leave or authorized leaves, withholding services as a result of a strike, and violation of established departmental work rules or procedures.
6.	Upon written request of the employee to the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director, the employee or his/her Union representative shall have the right to review items in his/her personnel file. The employee may provide rebuttal comments to be attached to original documents where the employee believes appropriate. Such rebuttal comments must be restricted to the document in question.
7.	Although documented oral warnings and admonishments are not subject to the full disciplinary procedure, an employee who receives an oral warning or admonishment may, within five (5) working days of receipt of the oral warning or admonishment, submit a rebuttal in writing, which shall be attached to the warning or admonishment. Such rebuttal comments must be restricted to the specific warning or admonishment in question.
8.	Upon written request by the employee to the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director, the employee shall have all documented oral warnings removed from his/her personnel file that were issued more than 6 months prior to the request, admonishments removed that were issued more than 12 months prior to the request, written reprimands that were issued more than 18 months prior to the request, and final written warnings that were issued 36 months prior to the request, provided that no ensuing discipline occurred. Specific egregious infractions will not be removed from the employee’s personnel file, (see MOA in Appendix F, Section 2). Upon removal, the documented oral warning or admonishment will be sent to the employee and shall not be used or referenced in any future disciplinary proceeding, as defined herein.
9.	Upon written request or authorization by an employee involved in a disciplinary hearing, the employee or his/her Union representative may obtain data that is necessary from the personnel file of the employee subject to the discipline in preparation of a grievance meeting.
14
10.	An eligible employee who is to be issued a written reprimand or final written warning shall be given the discipline, in writing, at a meeting with management. The employee may request a Union representative to be present at the meeting. An employee shall be given at least 24 hours notice of the meeting and advised of the purpose, time, date and site of the meeting, except when an employee’s continued presence in the work place is unsafe for co-workers, the public, or other County resources. Grievances regarding written reprimands or final written warnings shall be initiated at Step 1 of the Disciplinary Procedure within ten (10) working days from the issuance of the discipline.
11.	An eligible employee who is recommended for demotion shall be given a written statement setting forth the reasons upon which the proposed demotion is based. The statement shall include an identification of the specific reasons against the employee and an explanation of the evidence. Grievances regarding demotions shall be initiated at Step 2 of the disciplinary procedure within five (5) working days of the effective date of the demotion.
12.	An eligible employee who is recommended for termination, unless the employee is in a leave without pay status or has violated his/her last chance agreement, will be placed on paid administrative leave pending the Step 1 pre-termination meeting and shall receive written notification of such recommendation. The Step 1 meeting shall take place no sooner than three (3) working days from the effective date of the proposed termination but within five (5) working days after receipt of the notification unless extended by the department head or designee in which case the employee will remain on paid leave status until the Step 1 meeting is held, unless the employee is in a leave without pay status or has violated his/her last chance agreement. An employee who grieves the termination decision of the department head as a result of the Step 1 pre-termination meeting may initiate the grievance at Step 2 within five (5) working days from the date of receipt of the Step 1 decision. In the event a termination is overturned by the arbitrator at the Step 3 hearing, the arbitrator has the ability to mitigate the final outcome to the employee by imposing a lesser penalty, as defined in the progressive discipline process, including a leave without pay provision.
Section 2	- Arbitration Procedures for Contract Interpretation/Discipline.
Step 1 - Department Head Response
The Union, on behalf of an employee, who believes that the employee has a grievance relating to the interpretation and application of the express terms of the Agreement, or the issuance of discipline, shall reduce the grievance to writing and submit it to the employee's department head within ten (10) working days of the employee’s knowledge of the contract violation. The grievance shall state the violation and cite the Article and Section. Within ten (10) working days (a working day is defined as Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., excluding Saturday, Sunday and Holidays.) of receipt of the grievance, the
15
department head or his/her designee, a Human Resources representative/liaison, a Union representative, and the affected employee will, meet to try to resolve the problem. If desired, both parties may choose an additional representative who may attend the meeting. If the problem is not resolved at the meeting, the department head, or his/her designee, shall have five (5) working days from the date of the meeting to respond in writing, to the grievance. The response shall be sent by certified mail to the Union Executive Director. Copies of the response shall be sent to the Human Resources representative/liaison, the Union representative, and the affected employee.
Step 2 - County Manager Response
If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, the Union, on behalf of an employee(s), may, within five (5) working days of the receipt of the department head's decision, file an appeal of the decision with the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director as representative of the County, as defined in Article 1. Within ten (10) working days of receipt of the request for appeal, the County Manager, or his/her designee, will meet with the affected employee, a Union representative, and a Human Resources Representative to try to resolve the problem. If desired, both parties may choose an additional representative who may attend the meeting. If the problem is not resolved at the meeting, the County Manager or designee shall have five (5) working days to respond in writing to the grievance giving his decision. The response shall be sent by certified mail to the Union Executive Director. Copies of the response shall be sent to the affected employee and department, and the Union representative.
Step 3 - Arbitration
1.	If the Step 2 decision is deemed unacceptable, the Union, on behalf of an employee, may make a written request for arbitration within five (5) working days of receipt of the Step 2 decision. In such event, the parties shall, within ten (10) days, jointly request an arbitration panel from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS). Both parties shall make every effort to mutually set forth the issue(s) to be arbitrated in advance of the arbitration hearing date. The selection shall be accomplished by the Union first and the County next, each striking one (1) name from the list in turn until only one (1) name remains. A permanent panel of arbitrators may be established by the parties and may be utilized on a case-by-case basis provided both parties agree to do so in writing.
2.	The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding on all parties to this Agreement as long as the arbitrator does not exceed his/her authority as set forth below and as long as the arbitrator performs his/her functions in accordance with the case law regarding labor arbitration, the provisions of the U.S. Uniform Arbitration Act, and where applicable, NRS.
3.	The expenses of arbitration shall be borne equally by the Union and the County. Expenses incurred by either party in the preparation or presentation of its case are
16
to be borne solely by the party incurring such expense.
4.	Only one (1) grievance may be decided by the arbitrator at any hearing unless it is shown that the grievance being considered is related to another grievance pending a Step 3 hearing for the same employee and for a similar infraction. It shall be the arbitrator’s sole determination to consolidate the grievances into one hearing. The arbitrator shall within a reasonable period of time prior to the hearing date inform both parties of his/her decision regarding consolidation.
5.	The arbitrator shall not have the authority to modify, amend, alter, ignore, add to, or subtract from any of the provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator is without power to issue an award inconsistent with the governing statutes and/or ordinances of the jurisdiction. The arbitrator, in the absence of expressed written agreement of the parties to this Agreement, shall have no authority to rule on any dispute between the parties which is not within the definition of a grievance set forth in this Article. The arbitrator shall consider and decide only the particular issues presented by the Union and the County, and the decision and award shall be based solely on his/her interpretation of the application of the express terms of this Agreement. Any and all settlements or awards issued by the arbitrator shall be limited in retroactivity to the date of alleged violation or date of the filing of the grievance as decided by the arbitrator.
6.	Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 2 of this Article, the arbitrator shall not have the authority to excuse a failure by the employee, the Union, or the County to comply with the time limitations set forth above unless mutually agreed by both parties.
7.	If the parties disagree about the arbitrability of a grievance, the arbitrator shall decide this issue prior to hearing the merits of the case.
Section 3 - NERC/OOD Procedure
Grievances on those matters for which the Nevada Equal Rights Commission or Office of Diversity, Division of the Clark County Manager’s Office has jurisdiction will be referred to and processed by the OOD investigation staff. The employee(s) being investigated shall have the right to Union representation commencing at this level and continuing throughout the entire procedure. If discipline results from the investigation, employees are eligible for Step 1 and Step 2 meetings, and Step 3 arbitrations as defined in Section 2 of this Article. However, 1) if the department head chooses not to conduct the Step 1 meeting within the time frames, then the case will be heard at the next level; 2) if the matter proceeds to the arbitration process, then in addition to satisfying the standard requirements and qualifications for a arbitrator, the individual hearing matters covered in this Section must have training or expertise in the application and interpretation of civil rights laws.
17
ARTICLE 12 Certification Pay/Bilingual Pay
SECTION 1	- Certification Pay
1.	Upon the successful completion of probation, all permanent employees at the Department of Aviation working in the following classifications will receive certification pay provided they maintain the certification listed below:
Classification
Electrician
Electrical Maintenance Supervisor
Senior Electrician
HVAC Mechanic
Senior HVAC Mechanic
HVAC Maintenance Supervisor
Plumber
Certification
NV Class F Fire Alarm/Protection
NV Class F Fire Alarm/Protection
NV Class F Fire Alarm/Protection
NV Class G Fire Sprinkler
NV Class G Fire Sprinkler
NV Class G Fire Sprinkler
CA-NV Backflow Prevention Assembly
Tester
2.	The County Manager will authorize certification pay for any employee provided:
a.	The County requests in writing that the employee obtain the certification(s);
b.	The employee possesses and maintains the certification(s) requested; and,
c.	The certification(s) are not required under the employee’s position
classification.
3.	Certification pay shall be paid at a rate of four percent (4%) of base salary, and shall not be limited by the maximum salary designated for an employee’s salary schedule.
SECTION 2	- Bilingual Pay
1.	Upon the recommendation of his/her Department Head and the approval of the County Manager, an employee will be eligible to receive Bilingual Pay provided the following conditions are met:
a.	The employee’s assigned duties require them to communicate in a second language a minimum of 15% of their time; and
b.	As a prerequisite to receiving Bilingual Pay, the employee must successfully complete the County’s Bilingual Oral Proficiency Examination. The need for a written proficiency examination will be determined by County Management on a case-by-case basis. Competency testing requires fluency in English and the required foreign language or languages.
2.	The parties further recognize and agree that:
a.	Award of bilingual pay to an employee will not occur simply because the employee is bilingual and occasionally uses bilingual skills in the course of their work;
b.	Positions in which the use of a second language is a requirement are not eligible for bilingual pay;
c.	Bilingual testing will be scheduled by the County;
d.	Bilingual premium pay shall be $75.00 per pay period in a stipend form for
each employee determined to be eligible pursuant to Section 1 herein. When an employee begins or ends eligibility for bilingual pay in the middle of a pay period, the stipend will be prorated. The stipend will not be included in the base pay and is not used in the calculation of PERS or longevity; and
e.	Approved bilingual pay will be subject to annual re-authorization according to the conditions specified in Section 1 herein, with the exception of bilingual proficiency examinations which shall not be required under the reauthorization process.
3.	Bilingual pay will cease when the employee is transferred, promoted, or demoted to a position which does not meet the requirements of Section 1 (a) and 1 (b) herein, as determined by the employee’s Department Head.
4.	Nothing in this agreement shall prevent the County from using interpreter services where deemed appropriate. The County will not create classifications solely to circumvent bilingual pay, but maintains the right to create classifications that include a requirement for a second language as operational needs or statute dictate.
ARTICLE 13
Personnel Layoff, Recall and Appeal Procedure
Layoff is defined as any involuntary separation wherein management eliminates a position without prejudice to the incumbent.
The determination of the number of positions, classifications and departments to be affected by a layoff is a management right. The County and the Union agree that layoff and recall of personnel and appeals of these actions as it pertains to employees covered under this Agreement shall be as prescribed below.
19
Section 1	- Layoff
1.	Temporary and probationary County-funded employees in the department shall be eliminated first.
2.	Additional layoffs shall be done according to the inverse order of the seniority of the employees in the affected classification within the given department. If an employee’s classification was changed as a result of the classification study implemented in February of 1996, that employee shall be given full credit for service in his/her classification held just prior to the implementation of the classification study. Except as otherwise prohibited by law, any County department that has employee(s) on layoff status will not contract-out any work specifically performed by the employee(s) at the time of their lay-off so long as the employee(s) remains on the recall list. This provision does not apply to employees of the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada covered by 49 U.S.C. 5333(b), formerly Section 13 (c) of the Federal Transit Act, later codified.
3.	Seniority will be based on continuous service with the County: 1) in the affected classification; or, 2) classification in the same series at a higher salary grade in the event an employee has been reduced in grade in accordance with this Article. Creditable service for seniority must be in a permanent or permanent-intermittent position with the County.
4.	To provide for the continued operation of the County, each department head may exempt 8% of the total number of positions authorized in the current budget within his/her department and retain them regardless of seniority.
In the event that the 8% does not equal an exact number of employees, the fraction shall be rounded off to the next higher whole number.
Any exemption that is necessary because of any affirmative action program or laws pertaining to equal employment opportunity shall not be deemed a part of the above 8% but shall be in addition thereto.
Each department head electing to exempt employees from layoff in accordance with Article 13, Section 1 paragraph (4), shall provide the Layoff Review Committee and the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director with a complete list of exemptions five (5) days prior to the notification of those employees to be laid off.
Each department head shall update the list of exemptions whenever the County Manager's Office determines layoffs are required within a department, but shall not be updated more than one (1) time each fiscal year.
20
5.	As a result of the application of this layoff procedure, the County shall attempt to find a vacant position for any eligible employee scheduled to be laid off by evaluating the reassignment, transfer, reduction in grade, or any combination thereof for the employee. The employee must meet the minimum qualifications and/or specific skill sets of any position being considered.
6.	All permanent status personnel who are affected by layoff shall have the right to elect a reduction in grade to a lower classification: 1) within the same classification series; or, 2) in a classification in the same department that the employee has completed a probationary/qualifying period, provided that the classification still exists, the department has a vacant position and the department head determines the employee meets the minimum qualifications and abilities (i.e., license, physical fitness, job skills, etc.) of the position. A vacant position need not exist if an employee exercises his/her bump rights within the same classification series.
7.	No employee will have the right to bump to a position in another department or to bump a position of a higher salary grade than he/she currently fills. A permanent employee to be laid off may bump a temporary or probationary employee of the same classification in the department if the employee voluntarily agrees to commute or relocate at no expense to the County.
8.	An employee reduced in grade may have his/her salary reduced and in no event shall exceed the maximum for the class, but shall not have his/her anniversary date adjusted.
9.	The assignment of an employee to a position within a classification will be at the discretion of the department head.
10.	Separation due to layoff shall require the giving of at least two (2) weeks notice to the employee, or payment in lieu of notice, of an equivalent amount of the employee's base salary by the County.
11.	No permanent employee initially hired into and serving in a grant-funded position or a term position may initiate a bump into an unlimited County-funded position unless he/she is displaced by someone who has bumped him/her. Employees electing to bump into grant-funded positions or term positions have no property right to the position or County service if the funding ceases or the position ends.
Section 2	- Recall
1.	Any permanent status employee reduced in grade or laid off under this Article shall, based on seniority, have his/her name placed on a County recall list(s) for a period of two (2) years. Previous employees shall be notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, at their last known address and shall, within ten (10) calendar
21
days of receipt, respond affirmatively, by certified mail or in person, that they are accepting the offer of recall. Failure to respond in a timely manner will mean that the person has refused the offer of recall and the person will be removed from the recall list(s). An employee must be available for work within two (2) weeks of acceptance of the offer.
2.	When positions become available in a class, personnel who have been laid off or reduced in grade in that class shall be recalled in inverse order of layoff provided the employee meets the minimum qualifications for that position. The order of recall shall be:
a.	Employees who are reduced in grade based on the same criteria in Section 1 2).
b.	Former (laid off) employees who held a position in the same class based on the same criteria in Section 1 (2).
c.	Former employees who held a position in the same series.
If there are no applicants from the recall list, the department will fill the vacancy from an open or promotional eligibility list. In the event that a classification has only had a change in title, employees on the old recall list(s) shall be placed on the new respective list(s).
3.	Upon recall after layoff, the time that the person was on layoff shall be counted as a break in service.
Section 3	- Appeal
1.	The County and the Union shall each appoint two (2) permanent status employees to serve on the standing Layoff Review Committee. These representatives shall select a permanent status County employee as the fifth member who shall serve as the Chairperson.
A majority vote of the Committee will be necessary to uphold an appeal. The Committee shall develop a procedure for the layoff review process prior to conducting any review.
2.	Any appeal of the application of the procedure must be signed by the employee and Union and submitted to the affected department head within five (5) working days of the receipt of notice of layoff or the alleged violation of the recall procedures. A copy of the appeal must be sent to the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director. The Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director will schedule an informal meeting before the Layoff Review Committee within five (5) working days. This Committee will hear all appeals affecting layoffs and recalls to determine
22
whether the procedure was appropriately followed. The decision of the Layoff Review Committee will be final and will not be reviewed by an arbitrator, unless a decision of the Layoff Review Committee is alleged to have violated a specific, existing contractual provision.
ARTICLE 14
Basic Workweek
1.	The official workweek is comprised of seven (7) workdays which begins on each Saturday at 12:01 a.m. and shall end at midnight of the following Friday. The official workweek at the Clark County Water Reclamation District begins at 12:01 a.m. on each Monday and shall end at 12:00 midnight on Sunday. The official workday shall begin at 12:01 a.m. and shall end at midnight. Except as may be otherwise provided, an employee who occupies a full-time permanent position shall work 40 hours exclusive of meal breaks, but including rest breaks, in each workweek.
2.	Employees working a 5-day, 40-hour week (designated 5/40) shall work eight (8) hours per shift for five (5) shifts within the official workweek, and shall receive two (2) consecutive "24-hour periods off." Permanent work schedule adjustments shall be exempt from this provision when the work schedule adjustment is more than six (6) months after any previous permanent work schedule adjustment.
3.	Employees working a 4-day, 40-hour week (designated 4/40) shall work ten (10) hours per shift for four (4) shifts within the official workweek, and shall receive three (3) "24-hour periods off" of which two (2) 24-hour periods must be consecutive. Permanent work schedule adjustments shall be exempt from this provision when the work schedule adjustment is more than six (6) months after any previous permanent work schedule adjustment.
4.	The hours between the end of an employee's last regularly scheduled shift and the beginning of an employee's first regularly scheduled shift following his/her scheduled 24-hour periods off shall be considered his/her weekend.
5.	Employees shall be granted one (1) 15-minute work break for each period encompassing four (4) hours of work during the course of their shifts. Such breaks shall not be scheduled by the supervisor within one (1) hour of the employee’s starting time, quitting time, or meal breaks.
6.	Meal breaks are neither time worked nor time on pay status unless an employee is required by the County to remain on the job at a work station or the employee is interrupted by his/her supervisor to perform substantial duties during such period. An employee who remains at a work station during his/her meal break, but is not required to do so by the County, shall not be compensated for the meal break. In the event an employee is required to work four (4) hours or more beyond the end of
23
their scheduled shift, that employee shall be granted an additional meal break.
7.	Subject to the provisions of NRS 288.150 (4), nothing herein shall be construed to limit the authority of the County to make temporary assignments to different or additional locations, shifts or work duties for the purpose of meeting emergencies.
8.	Within 30 calendar days of request, the department head or designee(s) will meet with the requesting employees to determine and identify those work sections within the requesting employees' department wherein the majority of the employees desire a schedule change from five (5) 8-hour shifts per workweek (5/40) to four (4) 10-hour shifts (4/40) or some other established work schedule and the practical and feasible aspects of such change.
a. Where it is determined by the department head or designee and the employees that the conditions and circumstances allow for an adjustment in work schedule, the affected department head shall have the authority subject to the approval of the County Manager to effect such change, including the discretion to institute a "trial" period for the purpose of evaluating same based on agreed upon performance standards and objectives.
9.	No permanent employee shall be assigned to a regular schedule that requires him/her to work more than two (2) different shifts in a 40-hour workweek.
10.	24-Hour Shift Assignments: Family And Youth Services Department
a.	An employee assigned to work a 24 1/4 hour shift will be compensated for 16 1/4 hours at the employees' regular straight-time hourly rate, plus applicable premium pays, for each 24 1/4 hour shift.
b.	An employee will also receive compensation for eight (8) hours within each 24 1/4 hour shift at the rate of 33% of the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate for each hour. Employees are required to remain at their work sites during this 8-hour period and are permitted to sleep, unless interrupted to return to duty. If an employee is interrupted to return to duty within these eight (8) hours, compensation as defined in this Paragraph will cease while the employee is performing assigned duties, and the employee will be compensated at the time and one-half (1 %) overtime rate while performing assigned duties. If the interruption lasts longer than three (3) hours, the employee will be compensated for the entire 8-hour period at the time and one-half (1 %) overtime rate.
c.	Within each pay period, employees will be paid as provided in this Article for their scheduled or authorized hours of work reduced by any time charged as leave without pay.
24
d.	An employee absent for a scheduled 24 1/4 hour shift will be charged 16 1/4 hours of leave for each 24 1/4 hour shift in addition to not earning the compensation provided in Paragraph 2 of this Article for the 8-hour "sleep" period. An employee absent for a portion of his/her scheduled 24 1/4 hour shift will be charged leave for the portion absent from the 16 1/4 hour period, defined in Paragraph 1 of this Article, and will not earn the compensation, provided in Paragraph 2 of this Article, for the portion absent from the 8-hour "sleep" period. When an employee is authorized to be absent for the entire portion of the 16 1/4 hour period, defined in Paragraph 1 of this Article, following the 8-hour "sleep" period, the employee may leave the work site during the "sleep" period only with specific authorization from the employee's supervisor.
e.	Shift differential of four percent (4%) of an employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay shall be paid for the portion worked by the employee of the 16 1/4 hour period, defined in Paragraph 1 of this Article, from the start of the 24 1/4 hour shift to the start of the "sleep" period, defined in Paragraph 2 of this Article.
f.	Acting pay will be paid in accordance with Article 20 of this Agreement to an employee meeting the defined conditions and performing duties of the higher classification for five (5) or more consecutively scheduled 24 1/4 hour shifts.
g.	Holiday overtime pay, as defined in Article 22, Paragraph 3 of this Agreement, will be paid for only the portion of the 16 1/4 hour period, defined in Paragraph 1 of this Article, worked by the employee prior to midnight of the designated holiday. Notwithstanding any provision contained in Article 22 of this Agreement, employees assigned to Spring Mountain Youth Camp working a twenty-four (24) hour shift shall receive ten (10) hours of holiday pay at the employee’s straight time hourly rate.
h.	Overtime, as provided by Article 18 of this Agreement, may be earned by an employee regularly assigned to work cycles of 24 1/4 hour shifts when the employee works more than 86 hours within the defined 14 day work period. Hours worked includes all scheduled or authorized hours actually worked, excluding any time worked when interrupted during the 8-hour "sleep" period, (normally 16 1/4 hours per shift), and time charged as sick leave. Employees working less than a full cycle of consecutive 24 1/4 hour shifts, but working at least one (1) 24 1/4 hour shift, are entitled to overtime compensation, as provided by Article 18 of this Agreement, for hours worked in excess of 40 in an official workweek.
11.	Each department may establish an alternative workweek schedule to comply with the Fair Labor Standards Act definition of workweek, Section 778.105 (FLSA
25
Regulations 29 CFR, July 1985) and define the workday.
The program shall be implemented in those work sections when the majority of employees desire an alternative workweek schedule and shall comply with Section 8a above.
ARTICLE 15 Compensation
1.	Effective July 1, 2002, and continuing through June 30, 2003, the salary plan in effect from July 1, 2001, through June 30, 2002, covering scheduled employees in Appendix A will be increased by two and three quarter percent (2.75%) across the board. Appendix B reflects these changes.
2.	Effective July 1, 2003, and continuing through June 30, 2004, the salary plan in effect July 1, 2002, through June 30, 2003, reflected in Appendix B covering scheduled employees in Appendix A will be increased by two and three quarter percent (2.75%). Appendix C reflects these changes.
3.	Effective July 1, 2004, and continuing through June 30, 2005, the salary plan in effect July 1, 2003, through June 30, 2004, reflected in Appendix C covering scheduled employees in Appendix A will be increased by three percent (3%). Appendix D reflects these changes.
4.	Effective July 1, 2005, and continuing through June 30, 2006, the salary plan in effect July 1, 2004, through June 30, 2005, reflected in Appendix D covering scheduled employees in Appendix A will be increased by three (3%). Appendix E reflects these changes.
5.	Those employees formerly covered by this Agreement who either voluntarily separated or died after the effective date of any wage increase and before the date this Agreement is effected, will be eligible to apply for retroactive back pay increases. Those employees identified above or beneficiaries of deceased employees must submit their request in writing by certified mail to the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director no later than May 2, 2003 at 5:00 p.m. Any requests received after that date will be denied.
ARTICLE 16
Initial Appointment, Rehire, Promotion, Transfer and Demotion
1.	Initial appointment to positions shall be made at the entrance rate for the class except as approved by the County Manager or designee.
26
a. Upon initial appointment to the County position, an employee shall serve a probationary period. The probationary period will normally be 1,040 hours worked but may not be less than 520 hours worked nor longer than 2,080 hours worked as determined by the department head.
2.	The total number of employees of a department and the total number of employees of each classification within any department shall be determined by the budgetary process. The initial classification of positions shall be as contained in the current County classification list along with any subsequent amendments thereto.
3.	When a former employee is rehired after a break in service of no more than one (1) year from the date of separation, to a position in the same class held at the time of separation, he/she may be paid at, or below, the same hourly rate, including across the board schedule adjustments provided by this Agreement, he/she held at the time of separation.
4.	When an employee is promoted, he/she shall be entitled to a four percent (4%) salary increase or the minimum rate of the salary schedule to which the employee is promoted, whichever is greater. Any exception may be approved by the County Manager or designee upon written justification.
a.	A promoted employee shall serve a qualifying period. The qualifying period will normally be 1,040 hours worked but may not be less than 520 hours worked nor longer than 2,080 hours worked as determined by the department head. At the conclusion of the qualifying period, the employee shall be given a performance evaluation. Based on the evaluation, the employee will either be accepted or rejected for the position. If rejected, every effort will be made to place the employee in his/her previous or another County position for which he/she qualifies. If such a placement is not possible and termination of his/her employment is recommended, the employee will be given at least three (3) weeks notice of his/her termination. The employee retains the right of appeal under the terms of Article 11 of this Agreement.
b.	An employee promoted or transferred into a training underfill position, shall serve a qualifying period the same length of time as his/her training underfill status not to exceed one (1) year.
c.	When an employee is promoted, he/she shall retain the right, during the first 15 shifts worked of the qualifying period, to voluntarily demote to his/her previously held position. The employee shall have his/her salary reduced to the hourly rate, including across the board schedule adjustments provided by this Agreement, held prior to being placed on the qualifying period.
5.	When an employee transfers to a position in another department, he/she shall be
27
entitled to the same hourly rate held at the time of the transfer. The County Manager or designee, upon written justification by the department head, may approve a higher rate of pay. A voluntary transfer may result in the transferring employee serving a new qualifying period and upon completion, the employee may receive a salary increase as provided for in Article 21 of this Agreement provided the employee is not at the top of the schedule for the class and the performance evaluation report so justifies.
6.	When an employee is demoted, his/her salary will not exceed the top of the new salary schedule unless the demotion was a result of a reclassification. Demotions, except for reclassifications, initiate a new anniversary date. Employees failing a qualifying period and demoted shall have their salary reduced to the hourly rate, including across the board schedule adjustments provided by this Agreement, held prior to being placed on the qualifying period.
7.	Employees at the I level shall be required to complete a training program as determined by the employee’s department head or his/her designee. In all instances, the training program developed by the department head or his/her designee shall relate directly to the material requirements of the level II position. All employees at level I preparing for level II shall be provided training to afford the employee every opportunity to successfully complete their training program. Those employees that successfully complete their training program shall be promoted to the level II position. Qualifying employees who do not successfully complete their training program are entitled to the provisions of this Agreement.
8.	For the purpose of this Article "hours worked" shall be defined as any paid straight time hours.
ARTICLE 17
Posting of Vacancies
1.	The Union acknowledges that the County has the exclusive right to fill vacancies and make reassignments in accordance with the Clark County Merit Personnel System as revised and adopted by the Clark County Board of Commissioners. The methods used to classify employees in the bargaining unit shall be established in the Clark County Merit Personnel System.
2.	When a new position is created or an existing position becomes vacant in a classification in the bargaining unit, the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director, after consulting with the appointing authority, shall determine, in accordance with the Clark County Merit Personnel System, how the vacancy is to be filled. If a permanent position vacancy is created within a classification represented by the bargaining unit, and there is no current eligibility list, the County will post a job announcement using the agreed upon standardized format of posting for at least seven (7) calendar days if a departmental recruitment or 14 calendar days if a County or open recruitment to accept applications, except when such
28
vacancies are to be temporarily filled on an emergency basis. For those positions that it is determined by the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director and the appointing authority to have an open examination, an announcement of the open examination may be posted concurrently with the promotional announcement. Copies of all job announcements shall be mailed to the Union and posted in areas readily available to employees.
3.	The County shall encourage promotion within the competitive service on the basis of ability and efficiency, and the equality of opportunity for all qualified employees to vie for promotions in the competitive service. Therefore, qualified employees meeting the established criteria shall be given the first consideration for promotion by being interviewed for the position before the County fills such vacancy. If two (2) or more employees have similar job related knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) and demonstrated performance records (DPR's), the employee with the greatest class seniority shall be given first consideration. The County agrees to certify to a department to be interviewed on all open recruitments the top ranking County employee from the appropriate open recruitment eligibility list if no County employees would otherwise be certified. The Union shall be notified of the establishment of eligibility lists, which will include the duration of such list, as well as the classifications for which the list is compiled. An open recruitment shall be defined as an examination process which has the potential of resulting in an eligibility list containing names of County employees and applicants from outside County employment.
4.	The decision to fill permanent full-time vacancies on a temporary basis pending the completion of selection procedures will not be grievable. A vacancy filled by a demotion, transfer, management reassignment, rehire, or recall in a position that is equal to or less than the employee's previous position does not require posting.
5.	Candidates on an existing eligibility list that have been appointed to a grant funded position shall remain on the eligibility list for consideration for appointment to a permanent position.
6.	The Union will be furnished a copy of all job announcements; promotional announcements; monthly reports of vacancies; and if the position is within the bargaining unit, the name of the person filling the vacancy, the position filled, and the type of list from which the person filling the vacancy is selected.
ARTICLE 18
Overtime, Call Back, and Standby Pay
1.	Overtime Pay - An employee working a 5/40 week, as defined in Article 14, and required and authorized in writing to work overtime, shall be compensated at an overtime pay rate of time and one-half (1 %) for hours worked in excess of eight (8)
29
per shift or 40 in an official workweek. An employee working a 4/40 week, as defined in Article 14, and required and authorized in writing to work overtime, shall be compensated at an overtime pay rate of time and one-half (1 %) for hours worked in excess of ten (10) per shift or 40 in an official workweek. An employee working some other established work schedule as provided in Article 14, and required and authorized in writing to work overtime, shall be compensated at an overtime pay rate of time and one-half (1 %) for hours worked in excess of nine (9) per shift or 40 hours in an official workweek.
2.	Scheduled Overtime Pay - An employee required to return to his/her work site for duty at any time other than during his/her scheduled weekend, as defined in Article 14, with at least 12 hours' notice, shall be compensated at an overtime pay rate of time and one-half (1 %) for hours worked outside of his/her scheduled shift.
3.	Scheduled Weekend Overtime Pay - An employee required to return to his/her work site for duty during his/her scheduled weekend, as defined in Article 14, with at least 12 hours' notice, shall be compensated at an overtime pay rate of time and one-half (1 %) for all hours worked or shall be compensated for a minimum of three (3) hours at time and one-half (1 %)(4 % hours pay), whichever is greater.
4.	Overtime Pay For Holidays Worked - If an employee is required to work on a holiday, compensation shall be made as stipulated in Article 22 of this Agreement.
5.	Call Back Pay - When required, the department head or designee may call back to duty one or more employees. Call back pay is defined as compensation earned for returning to his/her work site for duty after the employee has completed his/her shift, departed from the work site and is off duty for a period of time and is requested to return to his/her work site with less than 12 hours' notice. When an employee is called back, the employee shall receive overtime pay for all hours worked on call back or shall be compensated for a minimum of three (3) hours at time and one-half (1 %) (4 % hours pay), whichever is greater. Call back pay shall only be paid for hours worked outside an employee's shift. An employee's regularly scheduled shift shall not be changed to accommodate a call back.
6.	Overtime Pay/Compensatory Time Pay and Accruals - Overtime pay provided in this Article is at the rate of time and one-half (1 %) and shall be made in compensatory time off or overtime cash payment at the discretion of the employee and approval of the department head. Compensatory time off should be used in the following 90 days, but may be accumulated to a maximum of 240 hours. All requests to use compensatory time must be approved at least 24 hours in advance of the time off in accordance with department policy, except in cases of emergency as determined by the department head or designee. An emergency shall not include absences for which sick leave is to be used as defined in Article 24, Section 1, unless all sick leave has been exhausted. An employee's compensatory time balance must equal zero before the employee will be permitted to use vacation
30
leave, unless an employee's vacation leave balance is 225 hours or greater on the last payday in November, any compensatory time accumulated above 240 hours shall automatically be paid to the employee in cash.
a.	Employees may not work overtime without the approval of their supervisor. All overtime must be approved in writing by the employee's supervisor before the overtime is worked and must indicate whether payment is to be made in cash or in compensatory time. Employees working at a remote assignment may be given the written overtime approval at the beginning of the employees next shift after verbal approval by their supervisor before the overtime is worked.
b.	In the event an employee transfers from one department (within the County) to another, all accumulated compensatory time will be paid to the transferring employee in a lump sum payment within 30 days of the effective date of transfer or transferred with the employee at the discretion of the employee. The employee's election to transfer compensatory time shall be subject to the written approval of the receiving department head.
7.	Standby Time Pay - Due to staff limitations, it may be necessary for a department head or designee to issue written assignments to employees to be on standby, to handle overtime work which may arise during other than normal working hours. Standby is defined as time in which an employee is required by the department head or designee to remain at his/her residence or required to carry an electronic pager and be within 30 minutes response capability so that he/she may immediately respond to any calls received. An employee will be compensated for standby time at the rate of one-fourth (1/4) hour pay at his/her regular hourly rate for each one (1) hour period of standby time. Employees on standby called to perform work will be compensated for actual hours worked in accordance with Section 1 of this Article and shall not be subject to the provisions of Section 5.
8.	Overtime and standby pay will be added to the payroll for the period during which work is performed and will not be paid for overtime work of less than 15 minutes per day.
9.	Overtime and standby pay shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked.
10.	For purposes of this Article, accumulated standby time will not qualify for premium or overtime pay.
11.	All employees covered under this Agreement shall be entitled to overtime pay or compensatory time.
31
ARTICLE 19 Shift Differential
1.	Shift differential is defined as the premium authorized to be paid to an employee above his/her regular straight-time hourly rate of pay for working a regularly scheduled shift other than a day shift. A regularly scheduled shift is a shift created by the department that is the same schedule for at least a month. A day shift is defined as any regularly scheduled work shift that begins no earlier than 5:00 a.m., or ends no later than 7:00 p.m. Only regularly scheduled shifts that begin or end outside the 5:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. time period shall be eligible for shift differential pay. The amount of shift differential shall be computed as four percent (4%) of base salary for the shift worked. Shift differential will be paid on annual leave and holidays but shall not be paid for sick leave hours or on buy out at the time of separation from the County.
2.	If an employee scheduled to work a regularly scheduled day shift works two (2) complete shifts in a row (day and swing shifts), he/she shall receive shift differential and overtime pay for the second shift.
3.	If an employee scheduled to work a regularly scheduled day shift works overtime past 7:00 p.m. into a regularly scheduled swing shift but does not complete a second shift, he/she shall receive shift differential pay and overtime pay for all overtime hours worked.
4.	If an employee scheduled to work a regularly scheduled swing shift works overtime into the graveyard shift, he/she shall receive shift differential pay and overtime pay for the overtime hours worked.
5.	If an employee scheduled to work a regularly scheduled graveyard shift works overtime into the day shift, he/she shall not receive shift differential pay for the hours worked in the day shift but shall receive overtime pay.
6.	Irregular or emergency hours worked which do not constitute an entire regularly scheduled shift eligible for shift differential shall not be compensated with shift differential.
7.	Shift differential shall not be paid for standby hours.
ARTICLE 20 Acting Pay
To be eligible for acting pay, a permanent status employee must be directed in writing and temporarily accept the duties and responsibilities of a classification of a higher salary than the employee's for a period in excess of five (5) consecutive 8-hour shifts or 4 consecutive
32
10-hour shifts worked. The acting employee shall be paid at a rate of four percent (4%) above his/her regular hourly rate or the minimum rate of the classification in which the employee is working, whichever is greater, for the entire period he/she performs such duties. Acting pay is not paid when the employee acting in a higher capacity is off for a holiday or is in leave status. Acting pay for periods up to 30 calendar days requires the written approval of the department head or designee and may not exceed 30 calendar days without the approval of the County Manager or appropriate Assistant County Manager. No acting pay will be given without the appropriate written approval.
ARTICLE 21
Salary Adjustment
1.	Employees will be eligible for consideration for a salary adjustment within their salary ranges upon:
a.	Successful completion of a probationary period for probationary employees, or successful completion of a qualifying period for promoted permanent or permanent-intermittent employees; and
b.	Each anniversary date of his/her employment in such class annually thereafter until the top of the salary range is reached in that class. The anniversary date is normally considered to be that date an employee commences work in that classification to which he/she has been most recently appointed. In the event of an early salary adjustment, the employee’s anniversary date will be changed to the effective date of the salary adjustment.
2.	For the purpose of determining eligibility for salary adjustments, employees shall meet expected performance standards as described in Section 3. Upon meeting such requirements, employees shall then be eligible for a salary adjustment. Employees shall receive their salary adjustment unless the County can show reason for denial of the salary adjustment. An employee shall be informed in writing of the specific reason(s) for the denial of a salary adjustment. In the event an employee has not been advised that he/she is to be denied a salary adjustment within forty-five days from the date he/she is eligible for such adjustment, [then] that employee shall automatically receive a four percent (4%) adjustment retroactive to his/her respective review date.
Supervisors will be expected to provide interim feedback to employees on their performance.
3.	Employees will receive salary adjustments based on the following prescribed levels of performance: “Needs improvement,” “Meets Performance Standards,”
33
“Meritorious Level of Performance,” “Exceptional Meritorious Performance,” and “Outstanding Performance.”
4.	In the event an employee’s performance evaluation rating is “Needs Improvement” or the employee is denied a salary adjustment, the employee may, within two (2) days of such written notification, request a review before his/her supervisor and the Department Head or his/her designee to discuss the reason for the salary adjustment rating. The review may be attended by the employee, the Departmental Union steward, the supervisor, the Department Head or his/her designee, and upon request of the employee or supervisor, a representative of the Office of Human Resources. The decision of the Department Head or designee will be final.
5.	a. Within each department, there shall be an equal number of management and labor representatives appointed to an advisory team. An advisory team will be comprised of a maximum of six (6) representatives in total. The composition of the teams shall be identified within one (1) month of the Board’s approval of this Agreement. Within four (4) months of the Board’s approval of this Agreement, each team will identify performance factors, which will be used with the performance standards as defined in Section 3. These performance factors will be specific to each department’s various classifications covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement and will identify examples of performance factors to be used with the various levels of performance standards in Section 3 of this Article.
b.	Upon the execution of this Agreement, the Union and the County agree to establish a Countywide team comprised of ten (10) members, five (5) members representing the Union and five (5) members representing the County. Its purpose is to review and comment on consistency and uniformity of performance factors established by the departmental advisory teams. The Countywide team will make recommendations pertaining to the consistency and uniformity of the performance factors and submit these to the County Manager for final approval within six (6) months from the date of agreement ratification.
The Countywide team shall within (6) six months of the ratification of this Agreement develop incremental percentage increases to be used with the performance standards as defined in Section 3 of this Article, provided that six percent (6%) will be the maximum allowable percentage increase and four percent (4%) will represent a meritorious level of performance standard. The Countywide team shall utilize the services of FMCS to facilitate the process in reaching consensus.
c.	Within each County department, the procedures used to evaluate an employee shall be uniformly and consistently applied in accordance with the guidelines established by the Clark County Office of Human Resources.
34
6.	Article 21 as adopted by the parties on December 18, 1998, and amended on June 5, 2001, shall remain in effect until such time that the percentage increases are developed by the Countywide team and ratified by the Union and approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
7.	The following shall not be considered as breaks in creditable service necessary to qualify for salary adjustments:
a.	Authorized military leave, provided that the person is reinstated within 90 calendar days following other than dishonorable or bad conduct discharge from military service;
b.	Authorized educational leave;
c.	Time during which employee is receiving compensation from the County for an injury or disease arising out of and in the course of his/her employment;
d.	Authorized leaves of absence without pay of 21 consecutive calendar days or less within any calendar year;
e.	Authorized leaves of absence with pay;
f.	Periods of qualifying service which immediately precede a layoff or authorized leave of absence; and,
g.	Authorized Union leave.
8.	When a salary adjustment is delayed solely through administrative delay or clerical error or is miscalculated in error, the proper adjustment shall be made effective retroactive to the date it was due.
9.	An employee’s salary adjustment will be effective the first day of the pay period during which the review date occurs.
Rewards and Incentives Not Included in the Base Salary:
1.	The County and Union agree to explore the development and implementation of new Rewards and Incentives Programs, and improve existing Programs, for implemented suggestions and accomplishments by individuals and/or teams for measured cost savings, and improved quality and customer service. Such rewards may be monetary or non-monetary.
2.	The program may include, but is not limited to, the following rewards:
35
a.	Bonuses and/or benefits for team and/or individual accomplishments;
b.	Pay-for-performance system;
c.	Implemented suggestions resulting in cost savings;
d.	Certificates of appreciation and/or accomplishments;
e.	Additional compensation for career accomplishments; and
f.	Reimbursements as an educational incentive.
ARTICLE 22 Holidays
1.	For the purposes of this Article, "Holiday Pay" shall be defined as a premium paid to eligible employees for time not worked for the following holidays:
January 1 (New Years Day)*
Third Monday in January (Martin Luther King, Jr's Birthday)
Third Monday in February (Washington's Birthday)
Last Monday in May (Memorial Day)
July 4 (Independence Day)*
First Monday in September (Labor Day)
Last Friday in October (Nevada Day)
November 11 (Veterans Day)*
Fourth Thursday in November (Thanksgiving Day)
Friday following the fourth Thursday in November (Family Day)
December 25 (Christmas Day)*
Employee's Birthday
Any day the County is required by state law to close for a legal holiday.
The pay for each holiday shall be equal to the employee’s work shift (eight (8), nine (9) or ten (10) hours) at the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate. For employees scheduled to work Monday through Friday, holidays shall be observed on the days specified in this Section except when a holiday marked with an asterisk (*) falls on a Saturday or a Sunday. A marked holiday falling on a Saturday will be observed the day before on Friday, and when it falls on a Sunday it will be observed the day after on Monday. For employees working a schedule other than Monday through Friday, holidays shall be observed on the days specified in this Section.
2.	The Birthday Holiday is earned on the employee's birthday. The Birthday Holiday shall be taken off on an employee's birthday or during the year following his/her birthday. Employees are not entitled to accumulate Birthday Holidays from year to
36
year.
3.	If an employee is scheduled but not required to work the day he/she is to observe a holiday, the employee shall be paid for the holiday as prescribed in Section 1 of this Article. If an employee is required to work on the day he/she is to observe a holiday, the employee shall receive payment at the rate of time and one-half (1 %) for all hours worked between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 12:00 midnight in addition to eight (8) hours holiday pay at the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate of pay. In those instances where an employee’s regularly scheduled shift crosses midnight and the majority of the shift worked falls on a holiday, payment at the rate of one and one-half (1 %) will be paid for all hours worked in the shift including those hours of the shift that fall outside the actual holiday worked. At no time will this result in overtime for working the holiday in excess of one (1) shift for that holiday.
4.	For an employee working a schedule other than Monday through Friday, when a holiday falls during the employee's weekend, the employee shall be paid for the holiday as prescribed in Section 1 of this Article or, if the employee requests, eight (8), nine (9) or ten (10) hours (depending on his/her work shift schedule), of holiday leave will accrue to a holiday leave balance for use before the end of the last pay period in June following the holiday. On the day following the end of the last pay period in June all unused holiday leave for the preceding year will be forfeited. All holiday leave requests must be approved at least 24 hours in advance of the leave.
5.	Except as provided below, an employee is eligible for holiday pay if he/she is in pay status for the entire shift prior to and the next shift following the day he/she is to observe a holiday. If an employee calls in sick a day he/she is to observe a holiday, he/she will not be eligible for holiday pay. If an employee leaves work for a sick leave reason, the employee shall be charged sick leave for the remainder of his/her shift and holiday pay shall be prorated based on the length of time actually worked.
6.	Overtime payment provided in this Article at the rate of time and one-half (1 %) shall be made in compensatory time off or cash payment upon the request of the employee and approval of the department head. It is understood that a department head's approval will not be unreasonably withheld recognizing, however, the financial constraints of cash payment.
ARTICLE 23
Vacation
1.	Accrual of Vacation Leave:
a.	Eligible employees hired or rehired and working on a full-time permanent
37
basis shall earn vacation leave based on months of service at the following rates for each pay period:
HOURS PER
MONTHS SERVICE PAY PERIOD ACCRUED
0-24	3.08
25-96	4.62
97-180	5.54
181 and over	6.15
b.	Vacation leave may not be accumulated to exceed 240 hours at the beginning of any calendar year. Prior to the end of the calendar year, employees with more than 240 hours of leave will be given the option of placing the hours above 240 in the catastrophic leave bank in accordance with Article 24, Sick Leave, Section 3, Catastrophic Leave Program, sell -back vacation leave subject to the conditions outlined in Section 4 (b) herein, or lose the leave. If an employee selects none of the options, then the excess hours will automatically be placed in the catastrophic leave bank.
2.	Vacation Eligibility: An employee is not entitled to take accumulated vacation leave or payment until he/she has successfully completed six (6) months of employment with the County and his/her probationary period.
3.	Vacation Leave Use: The purpose of vacation benefits is to allow each employee time away from his/her job for rest, recreation, and the pursuit of non-employment objectives. The time when vacation leave shall be taken will be determined by the department head or designee after considering department operational needs and the seniority and wishes of the employees. Vacation leave requests must be approved at least 24 hours in advance of the leave in accordance with department policy, except in cases of emergency as determined by the department head or designee. An emergency shall not include absences for which sick leave is to be used as defined in Article 24, Section 1, unless all sick leave has been exhausted. Vacation requests for one (1) shift or less may be granted without the 24-hour notification requirement referred to in this Section. Once a request for vacation leave is submitted to the Department Head or designee, every effort will be made to approve or deny the request in a timely manner.
4.	Payment for Vacation Leave:
a.	Except as provided in Article 23, Section 2, upon separation from service for any cause, an employee shall be paid a lump sum payment for any unused or accumulated vacation earned through the last day worked. If this is earlier than the last day of the pay period, the vacation shall be prorated. Payment for unused vacation leave will be at the employee's base hourly rate on the
38
last day worked prior to separation.
b.	Any employee with ten (10) years or more of creditable service is eligible in November of each year to submit a written request to the Deputy Director of the Office of Human Resources to be paid for 20 hours of vacation leave, provided the employee has used at least 80 hours of vacation leave or compensatory time or any combination thereof from December 1st through November 30th and carries a minimum accumulated balance of 220 hours. Payment will be paid in December of that year and taxed at the current supplemental tax rate.
5.	Death of an Employee: Upon the death of a person in the employ of the County a lump sum payment for vacation time accrued to his/her credit will be made to the employee's beneficiaries or estate.
6.	Vacation leave shall not accrue to employees classified as temporary, or part-time hourly.
7.	Vacation leave shall be considered only to be time off with pay. Payment for time accrued in lieu of vacation leave will not be allowed except as provided in Sections 4 and 5 immediately above.
ARTICLE 24 Sick Leave
Section 1	- Use of Sick Leave
1.	Paid sick leave may be used by employees who:
a.	Are incapacitated to perform job duties because of illness or injury.
b.	Are prevented by public health requirements from being at work.
c.	Need to absent themselves from work for bereavement and to attend the funeral of a member of the employee's immediate family. Immediate family shall be defined as the employee's spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, child, foster child, stepchild, grandchild, and grandparent, or any in-law of the employee's bearing any of the previously specified relationships.
d.	Are required to absent themselves from work upon incapacitating illness or injury in the immediate family to personally care for that family member.
e.	Need to be absent from work when receiving medical or dental treatment or examination.
39
f.	Need to be absent when incapacitated to perform job duties because of pregnancy or childbirth.
g.	Need to be absent to care for newborn children.
2.	Upon approval of the department director or designee, sick leave may be granted for other reasons when the department director or designee believes the use of sick leave will have a beneficial effect on an employee's morale and welfare.
3.	No County employee shall be entitled to sick leave while absent from duty because of disability arising from an injury purposely self-inflicted or caused by willful or grossly negligent misconduct.
4.	Employees shall be subject to the following requirements for the use and payment of sick leave:
a.	Employees who become ill prior to the start of the workday shall call in as required by their departmental work rules at the beginning of their shift.
b.	Employees shall fill out and sign a sick leave form stating the reason for the use of sick leave immediately upon their return to work or stating the need to schedule sick leave for purposes of a medical or dental appointment.
c.	Sick leave forms shall be turned in to the employees' department head or other designated authority for approval.
d.	Any employee who reports absent at the start of a shift because of illness or injury who recovers sufficiently during the course of the shift to report to work is required to do so. In such a situation, the employee involved shall only be charged for actual sick leave used to the nearest one-fourth (1/4) of an hour. At all times during a sick leave use period, employees shall be at their place of residence, a medical facility, or a doctor's office or shall notify their department head or designee of their whereabouts. The County shall not contact the employee at home once the employee provides the department with his/her location during the course of the illness, unless such contact is necessary in order to obtain information from the employee that is essential to the operational needs of the department.
e.	An employee may request the use of annual leave, compensatory time or leave without pay be granted in lieu of sick leave. Vacation leave shall be approved in accordance with department policy and the approval provisions of Article 23. The use of compensatory time shall be approved in accordance with department policy and the approval provisions of Article 18.
40
Leave without pay shall be approved in accordance with department policy and the approval provisions of Article 25. The practice of advancing sick leave shall not be permitted.
f.	Upon written request from the department director or his/her designee, a certificate of illness from a state licensed health care provider in an appropriate discipline may be required when there is one (1) absence in excess of three (3) consecutive scheduled workdays or whenever there is reason to believe that sick leave benefits are being abused. Additional documentation may be required depending on the seriousness of the medical or dental problem.
g.	If an employee's fitness for duty is questioned by the department head or designee, the employee may be required to submit a certificate of fitness.
h.	Any medical or dental reports or examinations that the County requires of the employee beyond those normally provided to the employee by the employee's usual medical or dental provider shall be paid for by the County.
Section 2	- Sick Leave Accrual and Payment
1.	Eligible permanent employees working on a full-time basis shall earn sick leave at the rate of 3.7 hours for each pay period. Employees who have been employed by the County for ten (10) cumulative years of service or longer will receive an additional 0.92 hours of sick leave per pay period. Eligible permanent employees working half-time or more (at least 40 hours per pay period) shall earn such leave on a prorated basis. There will be no limit on sick leave accumulation.
2.	Employees shall be paid their current straight-time hourly rate for each hour of sick leave used.
3.	Paid sick leave shall be counted as time worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
4.	If a permanent employee separates from the service of the County after three (3) consecutive years of employment, the employee shall receive payment for one-half (%) of his/her sick leave accumulation. An employee's sick leave payoff upon separation shall increase above 50% at the rate of one and one-half percent (1 %%) for each additional year of consecutive service above ten (10) through 20 years of service. An employee's sick leave payoff upon separation shall increase above 65% at the rate of three and one-half percent (3 %%) for each additional year of consecutive service above 20 up to a maximum of 100% at 30 years of service. Payment for unused sick leave will be at the employee's base hourly rate on the last day worked prior to separation.
41
Section 3	- Catastrophic Leave Program
1.	Employees holding permanent status may donate leave into the countywide catastrophic leave bank by completing a leave donation form and submitting it to the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director. Leave donations may be in a lump sum or on a periodic leave deduction basis. Donations may be made from vacation leave and/or compensatory time balances. A maximum of 40 hours of unused sick leave can be donated if the employee retains a balance of 120 hours after the donation of sick leave. Employees must have a vacation leave balance of at least 40 hours after the donation of annual leave. There shall be reciprocity between the SEIU supervisory and nonsupervisory units, in that employees from both units shall be able to both donate to, and withdraw from, this bank.
2.	Donated time will be converted to dollars at the hourly rate of the donor. When a recipient is identified, an appropriate amount of dollars will be converted to sick leave at the hourly rate of the recipient.
3.	Eligibility for Employee Catastrophic Sick Leave:
a.	An employee must have successfully completed six (6) months of employment with the County and his/her probationary period.
b.	An employee must meet the following definition of catastrophic illness/injury. "Catastrophic illness/injury is an illness or injury that requires inpatient care at a medical facility or that renders an employee bedridden at home. Bedridden is defined as limiting an individual’s ambulatory status to home allowing attention to in-home personal care needs, attend physicians’ appointments, and receive necessary medical treatment related to their catastrophic illness. The illness or injury cannot be a result of an illegal act, nor can it be self-inflicted."
c.	An employee absent due to an approved service connected disability is not eligible to participate in the Catastrophic Leave Program.
4.	Eligibility for Family Catastrophic Sick Leave:
a.	An employee must have successfully completed six (6) months of employment with the County and his/her probationary period.
b.	An employee’s immediate family shall include the employee’s spouse, child, or parent and must meet the following definition of catastrophic illness/injury. "Catastrophic illness/injury is an illness or injury that requires inpatient or outpatient care at a medical facility or that renders an employee’s family member bedridden at home” as defined in Section 3 (b) of this Article. A medical certification from the attending State Licensed Health Care Provider
42
stating the necessity of the employee’s presence to care for the family member is required as part of all requests for Family Catastrophic Sick Leave.
c.	Requests for Family Catastrophic Leave from immediate family members employed by the County shall be combined for the purpose of granting leave hours as provided for under Subsection 6 herein.
5.	Once an eligible employee has exhausted all accrued paid leave (sick leave, compensatory time and vacation time) as a result of the catastrophic illness or injury, the employee may file a written request with the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director for catastrophic sick leave. The written request must specify the length of time the employee wishes to be covered by Catastrophic Sick Leave and must be accompanied by: 1) a medical statement from the attending state licensed health care provider explaining the nature of the ilIness/injury, and an estimated amount of time the employee, or his/her family member, will be receiving care or will be bedridden at home; 2) evidence that the employee has notified his/her department head or designee in writing of his/her requested absence for the necessary length of time as estimated by the health care provider; and 3) a schedule of the dates and times the employee will be off from work, as approved by the department head or designee, if the employee is requesting intermittent time off to care for a family member.
6.	Clark County Human Resources will review the request and verify the employee's eligibility for Catastrophic Sick Leave. If determined eligible, Clark County Human Resources shall grant to the employee an appropriate amount of catastrophic sick leave from the leave bank, provided the balance of the leave bank is sufficient. The eligible employee may take up to 320 hours of employee Catastrophic leave or 80 hours of Family Catastrophic Leave. Family catastrophic leave shall be used within 20 working days of the date approved. If the employee needs additional hours to get through the elimination period for long term disability, then and only then, under such extraordinary circumstances, the employee may be granted additional hours of Employee Catastrophic Sick Leave. For each occurrence that catastrophic leave is approved, any unused hours will be returned to the Catastrophic Leave Bank. Catastrophic leave benefits will not be available to any employee currently receiving disability income benefits from the County’s long term disability insurance carrier.
7.	Any donations made to the Catastrophic Leave Program may be targeted to a specific employee at the donating employee’s request. Any hours already donated to the Catastrophic Leave Program remain there, including any unused hours for a targeted employee, and may not be returned to the donating employee.
ARTICLE 25
43
Miscellaneous Leaves
1.	Court Leave: Employees required by legal process or required by the County to appear in any court or before the Grand Jury as a juror or witness in a criminal or civil case during his/her work shift shall receive full compensation as though he/she were actually on the job during such time. He/she shall claim any jury, witness, or other fee to which he/she may be entitled by reason of such appearance and pay such fees, except mileage, to the County Treasurer within three (3) working days of receipt, to be deposited in the applicable fund of the County. An employee working other than a day shift appearing in court for the stated reasons for four (4) hours or more will be given his/her next regular shift off with pay providing that the employee meets all other conditions of this Section. Employees appearing in court for the stated reasons on scheduled 24 hour periods off shall retain any and all remuneration as may be authorized for such appearances. Notation will be made on the time and attendance report for the shifts of court leave granted to the employee while absent from his/her regular scheduled duties. If the employee is not selected for jury duty or is released from testimony, he/she shall return to duty if released during scheduled work shift hours. In those cases where an employee elects to retain jury duty or witness fees such time shall not be counted as time worked for the purpose of determining overtime, and the employee will not be considered on court leave for the time absent from work.
No civil case shall be covered by this Article in which the employee has an interest.
2.	Military Leave: Any permanent employee who is a member of the organized U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, Nevada National Guard or Marine Reserves shall continue to receive their regular pay from the County as prescribed by NRS 281.145, and any benefits as provided in the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994.
3.	Leave Without Pay: Upon written application to the department head, a permanent status employee may, in the County's sole discretion, be granted a leave of absence without pay for a period not to exceed 90 calendar days, without prejudice to his/her status, but no vacation or sick leave credits shall accrue during any such leave period. Without approval of the department head and the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director, leave without pay may not be granted until all accumulated annual leave is used. Disciplinary leave without pay may be imposed when annual leave is still available. Any additional leave must be recommended by the department head and approved by the County Manager.
4.	Parental Leave: Upon written application to the department head, an employee shall be granted a leave of absence of up to three (3) months for the purpose of caring for newborn children up to six (6) months old or legally adopting a child(ren). No vacation or sick leave credits shall accrue during the duration of any period of leave without pay. Employees are not required to use up annual leave and sick
44
leave benefits before taking parental leave without pay. Any unpaid leave shall be taken as one (1) continuous leave period. Employees, at their discretion, may use none, any or all of their sick leave and/or annual leave in the 3-month parental leave period. Parental leave of more than three (3) months is at the discretion of the department head, and if approved, the employee may use annual leave, sick leave, or leave without pay under the provisions of Article’s 23, 24, and 25 of this Agreement.
In addition to these provisions, the County shall provide benefits in accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
5.	Blood Donor Leave: Employees will be granted the necessary time off, up to four (4) hours during their work shift, for the purpose of donating blood when participating in a County authorized and/or sponsored blood donation drive. In no event shall an employee be eligible for overtime as a result of donating blood.
6.	Education Leave: Upon written application to the department head, an employee may, in the County's sole discretion, be granted educational leave without pay for a period not to exceed 90 calendar days, without prejudice to his/her status, but no vacation or sick leave credits shall accrue during any such leave period.
7.	Application and Examination Leave: An employee shall be permitted reasonable time off with pay during his/her shift to submit an application and/or take a scheduled examination for County promotional or transfer opportunity. In no case shall an employee become eligible for overtime as a result of competing for a promotional or transfer opportunity. An employee shall notify his/her supervisor immediately upon receiving a letter from Clark County Human Resources of the date and time that he/she is scheduled to attend an interview or examination.
ARTICLE 26
Benefit Eligibility
1.	Eligibility for increased entitlements to sick leave, vacation and longevity shall be determined by the total amount of service commencing with appointment to a permanent budgeted position.
2.	Should an employee who left County service in permanent status, worked 3 consecutive years, and gave, when applicable, two (2) weeks termination notice be rehired, that employee may regain all previously unused sick leave, provided the employee reimburses the County for whatever unused sick leave was paid the employee at the time of separation. Such reimbursement shall be paid before an employee is entitled to use such sick leave. The County must give the employee notice of this option upon rehire and the employee must either accept or decline this option within 60 days following the successful completion of his/her probationary
45
period. If the employee accepts the repayment option, the repayment must be completed within six (6) months following the successful completion of his/her probationary period.
3.	Increased entitlements will include all previous employment that ceased under honorable conditions or as a result of an involuntary layoff as provided in Article 13.
ARTICLE 27
Service Connected Disability
All eligible members shall be covered by a Workers Compensation Program of the County's choice that conforms with the provisions of the Nevada Industrial Insurance Act (NRS Chapter 616) and the Nevada Occupational Diseases Act (NRS Chapter 617) and that provides for payment of industrial accident benefits and compensation for partial and total disability arising from industrial injuries and occupational diseases.
1.	In the event an employee is absent from work due to a service-connected disability, approved pursuant to NRS Chapter 616 or 617, he/she may receive, in addition to the compensation as provided by NRS Chapter 616 or 617, a supplemental amount from the County which would cause the total amount received by the employee from the service-connected disability and the County to equal his/her salary at the time of his/her disability. The supplemental compensation will start from the first day of absence or illness, but shall not exceed 340 work hours for the same incident. During this period, the employee shall not forfeit any accrued sick leave. Successful completion of the probationary period is required in order to qualify for the supplemental compensation from the County.
2.	It is the intent of the County to pay the on-the-job injured employee (as outlined in this Section) the difference between full biweekly salary and that provided pursuant to NRS Chapter 616 or 617 as salary continuance. Therefore, the employee shall return to the County all temporary total disability payments received which were made under NRS Chapter 616 or 617 covering the period enumerated in Section 1 of this Article. No supplemental benefit shall be paid until after the employee's losttime benefit check has been deposited with the County Treasurer.
3.	If an employee entitled to disability compensation has not completed his/her probationary period, or if an employee who has received supplemental compensation for the maximum 340 work hours is unable to return to work, he/she may elect to utilize accrued sick leave, during which period the employee shall receive compensation from the County as provided in NRS Chapter 281.390. If the employee is receiving no compensation for time missed from work through the Worker's Compensation Program, the employee must use leave benefits to fully account for any absence.
46
4.	When accrued sick leave has expired, if the employee is still unable to work and the employee is receiving compensation for time missed from work through the Worker's Compensation Program, he/she will be permitted to use his/her accrued vacation leave as sick leave. Subsequent to the expiration of both the employee's sick and vacation leave, provided that the employee has so elected to use his/her vacation leave as sick leave, the employee's compensation will be limited to that provided by NRS Chapter 616 or 617 and the employee will be placed in a leave without pay status. However, through written justification to the Clark County Human Resources Deputy Director, exceptions to this Article may be approved by the County Manager.
5.	If, as a result of a licensed physician's evaluation and prognosis, it appears that the employee will not return to his/her regular County job within a 12-month period, the County may require a medical separation. Medical separation appeals of employees covered by this Agreement shall be handled in accordance with the procedure set forth in Article 11, Section 2.
ARTICLE 28 Retirement Contribution
1.	The County will pay the employee's portion of the retirement contribution under the employer-pay contribution plan in the manner provided for by NRS Chapter 286. Any increase in the percentage rate of the retirement contribution above the rate set forth in NRS Chapter 286 on May 19, 1975, shall be borne equally by the County and the employee and shall be paid in the manner provided by NRS Chapter 286. Any decrease in the percentage rate of the retirement contribution will result in a corresponding increase to each employee's base pay equal to one-half (1/2) of the decrease. Any such increase in pay will be effective from the date the decrease in the percentage rate of the retirement contribution becomes effective.
2.	The term "retirement contribution" does not include any payment for the purchase of previous credit service on behalf of any employee.
ARTICLE 29 Group Insurance
1.	To be eligible for group insurance, an employee must occupy a permanent budgeted position and work at least 20 hours per week and meet the necessary qualifying periods associated with the insurance program. The County will then be responsible for the prorata share of the premium based on hours worked as a percentage of 40 hours per week. Any employee who is on an authorized leave without pay status over 30 consecutive calendar days will be responsible as of the
47
31st day for reimbursing the County for the employee's insurance premium, the total dependent coverage insurance premium and the total long-term disability insurance premium from that day forward. If the leave without pay status does not coincide with the premium payments, then any such premiums shall be prorated.
2.	Employees who elect to have group insurance shall pay the following percentage of the total health and dental insurance premium per month.
PERCENTAGE
Employee Only	5.5%
Employee & Spouse	10.0%
Employee & Children	7.0%
Employee & Family	10.5%
3.	The County and Union agree that the Clark County Group Health Benefits Committee will be expanded to ten (10) members through the addition of an SEIU representative for a total of three (3) SEIU representatives, representing both the supervisory and nonsupervisory units. Duties of the committee will remain as currently described.
4.	The County and the Union agree that an executive board of five to seven (5 - 7) management representatives will be created to manage the Clark County Group Health Insurance Plan. The Union shall be furnished a copy of the official agenda at least ten (10) calendar days in advance of a scheduled executive board meeting and a copy of the official minutes no later than ten (10) calendar days after a board meeting. Duties of the board will include:
a.	Monitoring and evaluating plan utilization and financial performance.
b.	Evaluating various contractor proposals and recommending contractors to the Board of County Commissioners.
c.	Developing and negotiating any plan changes with SEIU.
ARTICLE 30
Life Insurance
1.	The County shall pay 100% of the premium cost of a group life insurance policy providing, to each employee, an amount of coverage of no less than $15,000 or no more than $20,000.
2.	The Union, at its discretion, may offer additional supplemental insurance benefits to members of the bargaining unit the cost of which shall be borne by the member. Neither the Union nor its authorized agent shall have the right to solicit enrollment
48
during normal working hours. The Union agrees to comply with all accounting and payroll deduction procedures as established by Clark County.
ARTICLE 31
Long Term Disability Insurance
1.	The County will provide long term disability insurance to employees who occupy a permanent budgeted position and work at least 20 hours per week. Employees must meet the qualifying requirements associated with the plan.
2.	Through December 31, 2002, the County will pay a maximum premium of $12.70 per month for each eligible employee toward the LTD plan. Effective January 1, 2003, the County will pay a maximum premium of $18.75 per month for each eligible employee toward the LTD Plan. The initial benefits of the plan will be determined based on the maximum premium in effect as of January 1, 2003. Effective January 1, 2004, the County will increase the premium by five percent (5%) annually through the term of this agreement to maintain the initial benefits of the plan. This contribution in no way guarantees a specific level of benefits, nor once a plan is adopted, for those benefit levels to continue if the premium exceeds the maximum monthly contribution.
ARTICLE 32 Longevity
1.	Creditable Service for Longevity Computation: Periods of permanent full-time employment with the County of Clark shall be considered as creditable service for the purpose of computing longevity eligibility. Any period in which an employee, while employed by the County of Clark, is called into the active military service of the United States Armed Forces involuntarily will be considered as creditable service for computation of longevity pay. Upon completion of five (5) full years of creditable service, eligible employees on the County payroll as of October 15, 1991, shall be entitled to longevity pay in addition to their base salary. All remaining employees shall be entitled to longevity pay in addition to their base salary upon completion of eight (8) full years of creditable service.
a. Longevity shall be paid annually, in a lump sum amount, during the first pay period following the employee's anniversary hire date, as adjusted for below conditions where applicable. Longevity payments shall be prorated from the anniversary hire date, as adjusted, for employees separated for any reason. Longevity rates for eligible employees shall be paid at the rate of .57 of 1% per year for each year of creditable service. Overtime pay or compensatory time shall not be considered in the calculation of longevity pay.
2.	Non-Creditable Service for Longevity Computation:
49
a.	Any period that an employee is on any leave of absence without pay over a period of 21 consecutive calendar days in a calendar year will be deducted from the creditable service for longevity pay.
b.	Period or periods of service in the active military service of the United States Armed Forces in which the employee enlisted voluntarily for active service other than period of war time or national emergency.
c.	Suspension periods as a result of disciplinary action.
ARTICLE 33 Private Automobiles
1.	Where an employee is required by a supervisor to use his/her private automobile in the performance of County business, he/she shall be reimbursed at the rate as established by NRS for each mile actually traveled in the performance of such County business. If an employee is required to use a passenger vehicle in the performance of his/her job, the County will make every effort to provide a County vehicle for use. In the event the employee is required to transport a client for any purpose the County must provide an appropriate vehicle.
2.	Employees who are assigned to the Spring Mountain Youth Camp shall receive remote area pay of $150 per pay period. Remote pay will not be reported as compensation to the Public Employees Retirement System for the purpose of including same in the calculation of retirement benefits for employees receiving such pay.
ARTICLE 34 Tools and Uniforms
1.	Each eligible permanent and probationary employee required to provide tools for his/her job and holding a classification listed below shall receive a tool allowance of $400 on his/her first paycheck in January:
Auto & Equipment Specialist
Auto & Equipment Technician I
Auto & Equipment Technician II
Carpenter
Cement Mason
Electrician
Facilities Maintenance Technician
50
HVAC Mechanic
Irrigation Systems Technician
Locksmith
Painter
Parks/Construction Maintenance Technician
Plumber
Revenue Equipment Technician
Senior Revenue Equipment Technician
Skilled Trades Worker
Sr Electrician
Sr Facility Maintenance Technician
Sr HVAC Mechanic
Traffic Systems Technician
Welder
Any eligible employee leaving County employment between January and July must reimburse the County an amount equal to fifteen dollars ($15) for each biweekly pay period remaining in the contract year. The department head or his/her designee will provide these employees a list of tools required for their positions. The department head shall notify, by December 31, Clark County Human Resources and the Union of these employees required to provide tools and the list of tools they are required to provide.
2.	All departments that currently supply tools to employees not serving in classifications in Section 1 shall continue to provide tools at no cost to the employee. Pneumatic equipment (and all related accessories) required by the County for Auto & Equipment Specialists shall be purchased by the County.
3.	The County reserves the right to determine the employees who are required to wear uniforms and to designate the uniform to be worn. The County will either provide a sufficient number of uniforms or provide for a uniform allowance for the departments and classifications as listed below.
Position Classification	Department	Amount
Administrative Secretary	Fire	$450
Chemical Engineer	Fire	$450
Departmental Systems Technician	Fire	$450
Executive Assistant	Fire	$450
Financial Office Assistant II	Fire	$450
Fire Mechanical Supervisor	Fire	$450
Fire Protection Engineer	Fire	$450
Management Analyst 1	Fire	$450
Office Assistant II	Fire	$450
Secretary	Fire	$450
Sr Financial Analyst	Fire	$450
51
Sr Financial Office Assistant
Sr Systems Technician
Fire
Fire
$450
$450
4.	Uniforms provided by the County must be returned to the County upon the employee's separation from the County.
5.	Employees are required to wear County-issued safety equipment during their assigned shifts.
ARTICLE 35 Time and Attendance
1.	Scheduled absences occur when an employee's use of vacation leave, compensatory time, sick leave, catastrophic leave, holiday leave, or any leave provided by Article 25 of this Agreement has been authorized in writing by an employee's department head or designee in advance of the leave.
2.	Unscheduled absences occur when an employee is absent without appropriate prior approval as defined in Paragraph 1 of this Article. Unscheduled leave for bereavement purposes of up to three (3) shifts per occurrence shall not be considered an unscheduled absence.
3.	An employee is considered tardy when the employee does not begin to perform assigned duties at the start of his/her designated shift. In addition, tardiness of 15 or more minutes shall be reported as leave without pay rounded to the nearest onefourth (1/4) of an hour.
4.	The determination of whether an employee's attendance is acceptable or unacceptable shall be based on unscheduled absences and tardiness in a designated period in accordance with the department attendance policy. An employee's absence due to an approved service connected disability is addressed in Article 27 of this Agreement and such absences shall not be considered in determining an employee's attendance rating for a formal performance appraisal.
5.	Within each department, a team comprised of labor and management representatives shall establish a mutually agreeable department attendance policy. Labor representatives shall be appointed from the affected department by the Union and management representatives shall be appointed by the Department Head. There shall be an equal number of labor and management representatives appointed to the team, up to a combined maximum of six (6) team members. Each department shall have an attendance policy in effect within 60 calendar days after this Agreement is signed. Mutually developed attendance policies in effect upon ratification of this Agreement are recognized as approved and in force. The team shall meet on occasion to review the effectiveness of the attendance policy and
52
update the policy when necessary.
Each department attendance policy shall address the following: a) goal of the attendance policy, b) scheduled and unscheduled absences, c) tardiness, d) employee notification procedures when unable to report to work, and e) referral of an employee to the Clark County Employees Assistance Program based on unscheduled absences.
6.	An employee's attendance shall be one of the factors included in a formal performance appraisal but shall not be used as the decisive factor in a salary adjustment decision.
ARTICLE 36
Clark County's Substance Abuse Policy
POLICY ON DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE
It is the policy of Clark County and the Service Employees International Union to foster and provide a drug and alcohol free workplace for all employees. A drug and alcohol free workplace protects the safety of the public as well as the County's valuable workforce.
While the County will be supportive of those who seek help voluntarily, the County will be equally firm in identifying and disciplining those who continue to be substance abusers and do not seek help.
1.	Guiding Principles:
There are four (4) guiding principles underlying the adoption of this policy.
They are:
a.	Education - The County and Union believe that education and training of all employees in the effects and treatment of substance abuse will contribute to a safer and more efficient workplace for everyone.
b.	Deterrence - The County and Union are committed to eliminating the effects of substance abuse in the workplace. All employees are prohibited from using, possessing, buying or selling drugs or alcohol in the workplace, and are prohibited from reporting to work or being subject to work (specifically on standby or on break) with prohibited drugs active in their systems or while under the influence of alcohol.
c.	Enforcement - The substance abuse policy will be strictly enforced. Violations of the policy or procedures will be cause for discipline, up to and
53
including termination of employment.
d.	Treatment - The County and Union are committed to helping employees with admitted substance abuse problems overcome those problems, and encourage voluntary rehabilitation options.
2.	Policy Purposes:
The purposes of the substance abuse policy are:
a.	To implement a fair and balanced approach to eliminating substance abuse and its effects on the job;
b.	To protect the public and employees; and
c.	To provide a strong incentive for voluntary rehabilitation and return to work.
3.	Rules:
The County and Union have formulated clear rules and penalties to ensure compliance with the substance abuse policy. The primary rules are:
ALCOHOL
a.	The consumption of an alcoholic beverage by an employee on duty will result in immediate termination with no Last Chance Agreement. The possession of an open alcoholic beverage by an employee on duty shall be cause for disciplinary action up to and including termination. The only exception to disciplinary action for the possession of an open alcoholic beverage while on duty is when the handling of an open alcoholic beverage is incidental to the employee's assigned duties.
b.	An employee will also be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination and may be placed on a Last Chance Agreement when the consumption of alcoholic beverages is at a time proximate to his/her work time, has an adverse effect on his/her work performance, causes impairment while on duty or on standby, or creates a risk of harm to self, others, or County or private property.
c.	If an employee who is required to drive as part of his/her assigned duties has his/her driver's license suspended, revoked, temporarily or permanently, due to a substance related offense, the employee must notify his/her supervisor of these circumstances when next reporting to duty. Failure to do so shall be cause for disciplinary action up to and including termination.
54
d.	The felony conviction of an employee as a result of alcohol while off County premises and not on duty shall be cause for disciplinary action up to and including termination.
DRUGS
a.	The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession, or use of an illegal drug or controlled substance by an employee in the work place or during work hours is prohibited. Employees in violation of this policy will be terminated with no Last Chance Agreement.
b.	The use of any drug which negatively affects performance or the ability of an employee to work in a safe manner may be cause for discipline where the employee knew or should have known that the drug would adversely diminish his/her capabilities to perform the job. For the purpose of this policy, the term "drug" shall include but not be limited to sedatives (i.e. valium, downers), stimulants (i.e. speed, uppers), hallucinogens (i.e. LSD), cocaine, crack, cannabinoids (i.e. marijuana), opiates, phencyclidine (PCP), and volatile solvents (inhalants).
c.	Whenever an employee is prescribed a drug by a licensed health care provider or uses an over-the-counter medication which may negatively affect his/her performance or ability to perform in a safe manner, the employee shall notify his/her supervisor. An employee who fails to notify his/her supervisor may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination and may be placed on a Last Chance Agreement when the use of drugs by that employee contributes to an accident or incident that results in property damage or injury to a person. Supervisors shall ensure that employees are not placed in capacities that may jeopardize the safety of others.
d.	The possession or use of illegal drugs while off County premises and while not on duty may be cause for discipline up to and including termination, where such conduct can be shown to have a direct and material adverse effect on the County's interests, including public image.
e.	If an employee who is required to drive as part of his/her assigned duties has his/her driver's license suspended, revoked temporarily or permanently, due to a substance related offense, the employee must notify his/her supervisor of these circumstances when next reporting to duty. Failure to do so shall be cause for disciplinary action up to and including termination.
f.	The felony conviction for the possession or being under the influence of illegal drugs while off County premises and while not on duty shall be cause for disciplinary action up to and including termination.
55
g.	The conviction of an employee for the sale or possession with intent to sell illegal drugs is cause for immediate termination with no Last Chance Agreement.
h.	Employees must notify their immediate supervisor of any personal criminal drug statute conviction for a violation occurring in the work place no later than five (5) days after such conviction. Failure to notify the immediate supervisor shall result in disciplinary action.
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
The County may require an individual to submit to a drug and alcohol test under the following circumstances.
1.	Pre-Employment:
Clark County Human Resources will identify specific job classifications that require an applicant selected as a new hire to take and pass a drug and alcohol screening. A positive result from the drug and/or alcohol screening may result in the applicant not being hired where the applicant's use of drugs and/or alcohol could affect requisite job standards, duties and responsibilities. If a legal drug screen is positive, the applicant must provide, within 24 hours of request, bona fide verification of a valid current prescription for the drug identified in the drug screen and it must be in the applicant's name. If the prescription is not in the applicant's name or the applicant does not provide acceptable verification, or if the drug is one that is likely to impair the applicant's ability to perform the job duties, the applicant will not be hired.
2.	Reasonable Cause:
An employee will be required to undergo immediate drug and alcohol testing in accordance with the following procedures if there is reasonable cause that the employee is under the influence of a drug and/or alcohol. Reasonable cause that an employee is under the influence of a drug and/or alcohol will be based on specific facts and/or reasonable inferences derived from those facts. Examples of circumstances, although not inclusive, which constitute a basis for determining reasonable cause are specified on the "Observation/lncident Report" included as part of this policy.
3.	Post-Accident:
An employee involved in an accident while on duty may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol test when there is:
56
a.
Property damage that exceeds $500, and/or
b. Personal injury
4.	Testing Procedures for Reasonable Cause and Post-Accident:
a.	Any supervisor evaluating an employee for reasonable cause shall complete the Clark County “Observation/lncident Report”. The Observation/lncident Report shall be sent to the appropriate department head and the Employee Relations Division of the Clark County Office of Human Resources. Supervisors and managers will not be permitted to use this policy as a vehicle to harass employees. Supervisors and managers shall be subject to the disciplinary process up to and including termination if they engage in harassing behavior towards employees.
b.	The suspected employee shall be afforded the right, if he/she so desires, to request that, in addition to the first supervisor, another on-duty supervisor provide a second opinion as to reasonable cause. If another supervisor is not able to report to observe the suspected employee within 30 minutes due to the distance a second supervisor would have to travel to observe the employee, the employee's request for a second opinion will not be granted.
c.	If the employee is an eligible member of a bargaining unit, the first supervisor advises him/her of his/her right to have a Union representative prior to testing and allow the same 30 minutes for a Union representative to appear. If mitigating circumstances warrant, the supervisor may wait up to a maximum of one (1) hour for a Union representative.
d.	If it is determined that reasonable cause exists, the employee shall be relieved of duty and transported to a drug testing specimen collection site for a drug and alcohol screening. Once the test sample is collected, arrangements will be made to have the employee transported home. The sample will be tested and confirmed and chain of custody maintained by a Substance Abuse Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) certified laboratory facility. A sufficient amount of a sample will be taken so that, at an employee’s request and expense, an alternative SAMHSA testing facility may be used to test the same sample; chain of custody will be maintained between testing facilities. An employee who is incapacitated to the point that he/she cannot provide a sample at the time of the incident shall later provide the necessary authorization for releasing hospital or medical reports that would indicate whether or not the employee was under the influence of a drug and/or alcohol.
57
e.	Advise the employee that he/she will remain on paid status until the test sample is collected. After the sample is collected the employee will be placed on leave in the following order as leave benefits are exhausted (sick leave, compensatory time, vacation leave, leave without pay) until the County receives the test results. If the test is negative, the County will make the employee whole.
f.	The results will be delivered by mail or carrier to the Employee Relations Division of the Clark County Office of Human Resources, who will then immediately notify and make a copy of the report available to the employee. The employee's department head or designee will be notified whether the test results are positive or negative. A drug test will be considered positive if the confirmation cutoff levels established by the SAMHSA are exceeded. An alcohol test will be considered positive if the blood alcohol content is .08 percent or greater, or the limit specified in NRS 484.0135 or other applicable law if less than .08 percent.
g.	Refusal to submit to a drug and alcohol test or to provide the necessary authorization for releasing hospital or medical reports that would indicate whether or not the employee was under the influence of a drug and/or alcohol shall be considered a positive test result and the employee shall be placed on a Last Chance Agreement.
DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES FOR A POSITIVE DRUG AND/OR ALCOHOL TEST
1.	A positive drug and/or alcohol test requested as a result of an accident which causes injury to a person or property damage will be cause for disciplinary action in accordance with Section 3 below.
2.	A test resulting in a positive outcome for a legal drug will result in the following actions:
a.	The employee may be disciplined for the performance or behavior that established reasonable cause to test the employee.
b.	The employee will provide, within 24 hours of request, a bona fide verification of a valid, current prescription for the drug identified. The prescription must be in the employee's name. If the employee does not provide acceptable verification of a valid prescription, or if the prescription is not in the employee's name, or if the employee has not previously notified his/her supervisor, the employee will be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with Section 3 below.
c.	Before the employee may return to work, the employee must provide the department head with a certificate of fitness/return-to-duty form from the
58
prescribing physician/state certified health care provider. The certificate of fitness must be a signed statement indicating whether or not an employee is medically able to perform regularly assigned job duties without restriction or limitation. If the employee is restricted from performing regularly assigned duties, the certificate must also identify the employee's restrictions.
3.	A test resulting in a positive screen for an illegal substance or the abuse and/or misuse of a legal drug or controlled substance will result in the following action:
a.	First offense: Unless previously specified as an infraction resulting in immediate termination, the employee will receive a suspension without pay for a period of time based on the seventy of the infraction and shall be required to sign and successfully complete the conditions of a Last Chance Agreement which includes rehabilitation and aftercare.
b.	Before the employee may return to work, the employee must provide the department head with a certificate of fitness/return-to-duty form from the prescribing physician/state certified rehabilitation and treatment program provider releasing the employee to return to work. The certificate of fitness must be a signed statement indicating whether or not an employee is medically able to perform regularly assigned job duties without restriction or limitation. If the employee is restricted from performing regularly assigned duties, the certificate must also identify the employee’s restrictions. This must occur within 60 days of the drug test date. Failure to provide a return-to-duty form with respect to their substance abuse problem within 60 days will result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
c.	Second offense: The employee will be suspended without pay pending termination.
4.	A test resulting in a positive screening for alcohol will result in the following action:
a.	First offense: Unless previously specified as an infraction resulting in immediate termination, the employee will receive a suspension without pay for a period of time based on the seventy of the infraction and will be required to seek assistance through the Employee Assistance Program. The employee will be required to provide a certificate of fitness/return-to-duty form from the prescribing physician/state certified rehabilitation and treatment program provider releasing the employee to work. The certificate of fitness must be a signed statement indicating whether or not an employee is medically able to perform regularly assigned job duties without restriction or limitation. If the employee is restricted from performing regularly assigned duties, the certificate must also identify the employee's restrictions. This must occur within 60 days of the drug test date. Failure to provide a return-
59
to-duty form with respect to their substance abuse problem within 60 days will result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
b.	Second offense: Unless previously specified as an infraction resulting in immediate termination, the employee will receive a suspension without pay for a period of time based on the seventy of the infraction and will be required to sign and successfully complete the conditions of a Last Chance Agreement which includes a rehabilitation and aftercare program.
c.	Third offense: The employee will be suspended pending termination, unless the employee's department head decides not to terminate the employee based on mitigating circumstances. If the department head chooses not to terminate the employee, the department head shall follow the second offense procedure in this Section.
LAST CHANCE AGREEMENT
Refusal to sign a Last Chance Agreement shall be considered just cause for termination. The Last Chance Agreement shall be the final step before termination in the disciplinary process. The treatment and aftercare portion of the Last Chance Agreement will be monitored for compliance by the Employee Assistance Program. The Last Chance Agreement shall require at least the following:
1.	The employee to contact the Employee Assistance Program within five (5) working days of employee notification of a positive drug or alcohol test.
2.	Compliance with and satisfactory completion of treatment by a Bureau of Alcohol and Drug Abuse certified rehabilitation/program or provider. The Employee Assistance Program will assess, determine and recommend the appropriate level of treatment and provider options. The program/provider may be selected by the employee.
3.	Enrollment and continued attendance in an aftercare program, as necessary.
4.	Certificate of fitness/return-to-duty form signed by the prescribing physician/state certified rehabilitation and treatment program provider releasing the employee to return to work. This must occur within 60 days of the drug test date. Failure to provide a return-to-duty form with respect to their substance abuse problem within 60 days will result in disciplinary action up to and including termination.
5.	A minimum of four (4) random tests over a period of one (1) year from the date of returning to duty. An employee's department head or immediate supervisor, as approved by the department head, may require testing at any time the employee is on duty.
60
At that time an employee signs a Last Chance Agreement, or otherwise voluntarily seeks assistance, they shall be advised that EAP counseling is available through the off-site Clark County EAP. Alternative EAP is available through the University Medical Center EAP and the Clark County Fire Department EAP upon request. The availability of this alternative is predicated upon the employee having a bona fide conflict with Clark County’s EAP and the alternative Employee Assistance Program has the ability to accept the employee based on their availability of resources.
CONFIDENTIALITY
With the exception of the laboratory testing facility, the Employee Relations and Employee Assistance Division of the Clark County Office of Human Resources, the tested individual, and the Risk Management Division for workers' compensation incidents, the medical record shall not be released to anyone without express written authorization of the tested individual unless ordered by means of proper legal procedure and appropriate legal authority, such as court ordered subpoena, or in connection with a disciplinary proceeding.
To ensure the confidentiality of employees' medical records, laboratory reports, test results, and Observation/lncident Reports shall not appear in an employee's personnel file. Information of this nature will be contained in a separate confidential medical record that will be securely kept under the control of the Clark County Office of Human Resources.
TRAINING
Training is an essential element in assuring the effectiveness of the drug and alcohol free workplace program. Supervisors and employees must be kept informed of not only the policy and procedures of this drug and alcohol program but of the programs available to them which promote wellness and safety. Supervisor training will be made available; individual consultation by the Employee Assistance staff will be available upon request.
1.	Supervisor Training:
Topics include:
a.	Developing working knowledge of drug and alcohol policy and drug testing procedures.
b.	Developing working knowledge of impact of substance abuse in the
workplace.
c.	Developing working knowledge on identification of possible impaired
employees through symptom recognition and job performance standards.
d.	Developing skill in application of procedures to effectively approach and appropriately handle questionable behavior with employees.
61
e.	Becoming knowledgeable in available resources and procedures for referral such as the Employee Assistance Program.
f.	Learning effective participation in monitoring a Last Chance Agreement.
g.	Learning the critical issues regarding confidentiality and employee rights.
2.	Employee Awareness Training:
Topics include:
a.	The drug and alcohol policy and drug testing procedures.
b.	Impact of drugs and alcohol in workplace.
c.	Available resources for assistance including the Employee Assistance Program.
d.	Effects, signs and symptoms of alcohol and the drugs tested for.
e.	The Last Chance Agreement.
f.	Confidentiality and its application in the drug and alcohol policy.
OTHER LAWS, STATUTES OR REGULATIONS
Clark County is committed to providing reasonable accommodation to those employees whose drug and/or alcohol problem qualifies them under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
The provisions of any applicable law, statute, regulation or ordinance (i.e. The Omnibus Transportation and Employee Testing Act of 1991 and the Federal Highway Administration and Department of Transportation rules of February, 1994) shall control in the event of any conflict with the provisions of this policy.
DEFINITIONS
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TEST: For the purposes of this policy, drug and alcohol test means a test for the detection of at least the following: alcohol, amphetamines, barbiturates, cocaine, propoxyphene, benzodiazepines, marijuana, methadone, methaqualone, opiates, and phencyclidine (PCP).
FIRST SUPERVISOR: A supervisor from any department, who has been through the Supervisor Training Program specified in this policy, who first observes different or
62
abnormal behavior of an employee.
ILLEGAL DRUGS: Any drug (a) which is not legally obtainable; or (b) which is legally obtainable but has not been legally obtained. The term includes prescribed drugs not legally obtained and prescribed drugs not being used for prescribed purposes.
LEGAL DRUG: Prescribed drugs and over-the-counter drugs, which have been legally obtained and are being used for the purpose for which they were prescribed or manufactured.
ON DUTY: Assigned work hours excluding paid and unpaid leaves.
SECOND SUPERVISOR: A supervisor from any department, who has been through the Supervisor Training Program specified in this policy, who is called in to assist in the assessment of the different or abnormal behavior of an employee.
SAMHSA: Substance Abuse Mental Health Services Administration.
SUBSTANCE ABUSE: The misuse or illicit use of alcohol and/or drugs including controlled substances.
ARTICLE 37 Entire Agreement
It is intended that this Agreement sets forth the full and entire understanding of the parties regarding the matters set forth herein. However, all other provisions contained in and through existing rules, policies, regulations and practices which may provide benefits applicable to this bargaining unit will continue to be granted to bargaining unit employees unless specifically modified by the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 38 Conflicting Agreements
1.	This Agreement supersedes all personnel rules heretofore in effect by the County relating to those subjects addressed by the provisions of this Agreement to the extent such rules are in conflict with the terms of this Agreement. This Agreement does not preclude the County from formulating new or additional rules and guidelines which are consistent with the terms of this Agreement or the provisions of the NRS, subject to the procedures of this Article 38.
2.	Every employee not excluded from the bargaining unit shall be given a copy of the Clark County Merit Personnel System Manual and the SEIU Agreement. Additions
63
and amendments to the Clark County Merit Personnel System Manual will be forwarded to the Union for review at least 45 calendar days prior to the effective date of adoption.
3.	It is the County's intention that rules, policies, procedures and directives are to be interpreted and applied uniformly to all employees in this bargaining unit under similar circumstances. This in no way precludes the individual departments from promulgating their own rules and procedures providing that such rules and/or procedures are not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and the Clark County Merit Personnel System. In the event of a conflict between the Clark County Merit Personnel System and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. Department rules and policies will be reviewed and approved by the Clark County Office of Human Resources for consistency with the Clark County Merit Personnel System and this Agreement before implementation. The Union will be provided with a copy of all department rules and policies approved by the Clark County Office of Human Resources prior to implementation within the department. The department will provide each employee with a copy of department rules and policies. A copy of all approved department rules and policies will be kept on file in the Clark County Office of Human Resources.
ARTICLE 39 General Savings Clause
1.	If any provision of this document or any application of the document to any person or persons covered herein be found contrary to federal law or the NRS, then this provision or application shall be deemed invalid except to the extent permitted by law, but all other provisions thereof shall continue in full force and effect. If there is any change in federal law or the NRS that would invalidate or supplement any provision of this Agreement, excluding changes in NRS Chapter 288, the parties will meet to negotiate any change in the Agreement relative to the affected provisions only.
2.	In the event NRS Chapter 288 is amended, the County and Union, through a committee of not more than five (5) representatives each, will meet within 30 days of such passage to informally discuss the ramifications, if any, on the current negotiated Agreement.
ARTICLE 40
Excess Deferred Compensation
Excess Deferred Compensation Plan for post-retirement medical benefits pursuant to Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 457.
64
1.	The County agrees to maintain and extend to all employees a plan for funding postretirement benefits pursuant to IRC 457.
2.	Employees may make pre-tax contributions to this plan, at any time, in accordance with the provisions with the plan.
3.	The County agrees to match employee contributions to the excess Deferred Compensation Program, as approved by the Board of County Commissioners, for employees with fifteen (15) or more years of County service. The County’s matching contribution shall be limited to a maximum of $480.00 per calendar year for a period not to exceed five calendar years prior to the date the employee retires into the Nevada Public Employees Retirement System (PERS). The County contribution will be posted to the employee’s account at the end of the calendar year.
4.	Employees accepted for participation in the Voluntary Separation Program are ineligible for further matching County contributions under this plan.
5.	The County shall provide each participant in the plan with an annual statement detailing all monies deferred to the plan, investment income, and medical insurance premiums paid.
ARTICLE 41
Methods of Employee Classification
1.	Classification Audits
a.	An audit process, as described herein, will be available to an employee upon written request to their Department Director.
b.	Written requests must include an explanation of the changes that have evolved in the classification, additional job responsibilities, and the scope of those responsibilities. An employee must demonstrate that those new or expanded responsibilities are of a nature that are compensated at a higher salary level within the existing County salary ranges.
c.	In the event that the Director believes the responsibilities outlined in the request for a job audit do not warrant a formal audit, the Director shall forward the request within twenty-one (21) calendar days together with the pertinent information pertaining thereto to the methods of Classification Joint Committee in Section 2 below.
d.	If the Director supports the request, the request shall be forwarded to the
65
Position Review Committee for final determination. A copy of the request, and any other pertinent information relating thereto shall be simultaneously forwarded to the members of the Methods of Classification Committee.
2.	Methods of Classification Joint Committee
a.	The parties hereby agree to the establishment of an equally seated review committee. Within sixty (60) days from the full ratification of this agreement, the Union shall appoint two (2) members to the committee and the County shall appoint two (2) members. The Deputy Director of the Office of Human Resources shall serve as the non-voting Chair of the Committee.
b.	The Committee shall meet as often as mutually agreed, however, no less than once every other month. Union representatives appointed to the Committee shall receive their normal compensation as a result of their attendance at the Committee meetings, as such attendance shall be considered time worked in all respects.
c.	The initial sessions shall include a thorough presentation from the Office of Human Resources concerning the current process by which employees are classified.
d.	The scope of the Committee shall be as follows:
1.	Recommend, but not impose nor effect, changes in the County’s system of classification.
2.	Review, but not impose nor effect, any changes to the methodology employed to establish newly created or existing classifications within the jurisdiction of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. It is the intent of the parties by virtue of their agreement to this Section to satisfy their bargaining obligations in every respect and to the extent found in NRS 288 pertaining to the method of classifying employees.
3.	Make written recommendations to the Position Review Committee as to whether a position should be audited for reclassification purposes based on the findings of the Committee. In order for a position to be considered for an audit, the findings of the Committee shall be predicated upon the criteria set forth in Section 1, (b), hereof. The Deputy Director of the Office of Human Resources shall respond to the Methods of Classification Joint Committee advising them of the disposition of the Position Review Committee’s recommendation
66
within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the recommendation from that Committee. In effectuating the provisions of Section 1 c, the parties recognize and acknowledge the existence and role of the Position Review Committee established by Resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. The parties further recognize that the decisions of the Position Review Committee are final and not subject to the grievance process as outlined in Article 11 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 42 Shift Assignment
1.	The County and the Union agree that a bid shift procedure based on seniority will be implemented within 3 months of the ratification of this Agreement. The bid shift procedures will apply to any position classification in any department where employees occupying those positions are scheduled to day and non-day shifts, as defined in Article 19. The procedure is as follows:
a.	No less than once every year, all permanent employees covered under this Agreement who occupy a position classification in a department where employees work both day and non-day shifts shall be allowed to submit a bid for the purpose of expressing a shift preference and days off (as days off are part of a posted shift). Bids should be submitted to the employee’s Department Head or his/her designee in accordance with the procedures as outlined within that department.
b.	The County shall schedule employees to available shifts and days off (as days off are part of a posted shift) according to the bids submitted and the seniority of the employees, and shall advise the Union and affected employees of the schedules.
2.	Seniority shall be determined according to an employee’s length of service in a position classification within a department. If two or more eligible employees have identical seniority levels, the employee with the greater length of service with the County, as determined by the employee’s hire date, shall be given bid preference. If a tie still remains, preference will be given based on the last four (4) digits of the employee’s social security number with the smaller number being first.
3.	Prior to scheduling employees to available shifts, pursuant to Section 1 (b) herein, the Department Head shall have the exclusive right to exempt specific employees from the bid shift procedure noted herein on the basis of operational requirements. This provision will not be utilized to exempt entire classifications.
4.	Employees exempted from the bid shift process, along with the Union, shall be notified in writing of their exemption from the bid shift process. Any employee
67
exempted from the bid shift process may request that the County Manager reconsider (sustain or overturn) their exemption from the process on the basis of operational requirements.
ARTICLE 43 Terms of Agreement
1.	This Agreement shall be effective April 2, 2003, and shall remain in effect until the last day of June, 2006, and shall continue from year-to-year thereafter unless the County and the Union agree to change, amend, modify or terminate this Agreement pursuant to the provisions of NRS Chapter 288.
2.	Consistent with Article 38 herein, this Article does not preclude informal discussion between the parties of any matter which is not subject to negotiation or contract. Any such informal discussion is exempt from all requirements of notice or time schedule.
68
APPENDIX A List of Classifications
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grat
N11121	Accountant I	C27
N11123	Accountant II	C28
E09627	Administrator Real Estate/Property Acquisition	C31
N00663	Administrative Secretary	C25
N04353	Administrative Specialist	C26
N18725	Air Quality Modeler	C30
N18521	Air Quality Specialist I	C27
N18522	Air Quality Specialist II	C28
N24453	Airfield Coord/North Las Vegas	C27
N23563	Airport Bike Patrol	C21
N45643	Airport Canine Handler	C26
N23763	Airport Customer Service Rep	C22
N31541	Airport Escort	C20
N24021	Airport Management Trainee	C26
N24253	Airport Operations Coordinator	C28
N24054	Airport Operations Dispatcher	C24
N02266	Airport Paging Supervisor	C25
N23463	Airport Parking Attendant	C21
N23866	Airport Parking Shift Supervisor	C26
N23663	Airport Passenger Service Rep	C22
N23953	Airport Property Monitor	C24
N24353	Airport Ramp Controller I	C26
N24354	Airport Ramp Controller II	C27
N24356	Airport Ramp Mgmt Supv	C29
E24257	Airport Relations Administrator	C31
N31687	Airport Shuttle Transport Supv	C25
N23946	Airport Transportation Shift Supv	C26
N23943	Airport Transportation Specialist	C23
N45363	Animal Control Dispatcher	C22
N45543	Animal Control Officer	C25
N25067	Appraisal Data Collector	C25
N25165	Appraisal Plans Coordinator	C24
N25061	Appraisal Technician I	C22
N25063	Appraisal Technician II	C23
N18333	AQ Monitoring Tech I	C27
N18334	AQ Monitoring Tech II	C28
N21623	Architect	C30
N21023	Assoc Engineer	C30
N31544	Asst Airport Escort Supv	C24
N41423	Asst Curator of Education	C24
N37486	Asst Custodial Supervisor	C24
69
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grat
N21021	Asst Engineer	C29
E23827	Asst Manager Terminal 2	C29
N41731	Asst Production Specialist	C25
N33376	Asst Revenue Equipment Supv	C27
N06253	Asst Safety Officer	C24
N21645	Asst Security Supv	C24
N02366	Asst Transit Customer Svc Supv	C25
N36285	Asst Transit Maintenance Admin	C28
N02286	Asst Vault Supervisor	C26
N11221	Auditor I	C28
N11223	Auditor II	C29
N36074	Auto & Equipment Specialist	C27
N36174	Auto & Auto & Equipment Specialist -CDL	C27
N36071	Auto & Equipment Technician I	C25
N36171	Auto & Equipment Technician I -CDL	C25
N36073	Auto & Equipment Technician II	C26
N36173	Auto & Equipment Technician II -CDL	C26
N36183	Automotive Parts Worker	C23
N36182	Automotive Service Worker	C23
N27534	Building Inspection Specialist	C29
N27531	Building Inspector I	C26
N27532	Building Inspector II	C27
N27864	Building Permit Specialist	C24
N27724	Building Plans Examiner Spec	C30
N27721	Building Plans Examiner I	C28
N27723	Building Plans Examiner II	C29
N27733	Building Plans Technician	C26
N27764	Building Records Technician	C24
N19853	Bus Stop Technician	C24
N00941	Business License Agent I	C26
N00943	Business License Agent II	C27
N00965	Business License Specialist	C25
N00861	Business License Technician I	C22
N00863	Business License Technician II	C23
N28031	Camera Instrument Tech I	C25
N28033	Camera Instrument Tech II	C26
N34173	Carpenter	C26
N34174	Carpenter - CDL	C26
N37484	Carpet Repair Specialist	C23
N34273	Cement Mason	C26
N16571	Central Services Worker I	C22
N16573	Central Services Worker II	C23
N20924	Chemical Engineer	C31
N39821	Chemist I	C27
70
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grat
N39823	Chemist II	C28
N09452	Child Development Assistant	C22
N09421	Child Development Specialist I	C27
N09423	Child Development Specialist II	C28
N09451	Child Development Tech I	C24
N09453	Child Development Tech II	C25
N09321	Child Protective Svcs Spec I	C27
N09323	Child Protective Svcs Spec II	C28
N09521	Child & Family Intervent Spec I	C28
N09523	Child & Family Intervent Spec II	C29
N09351	Child & Youth Program Tech I	C23
N09353	Child & Youth Program Tech II	C24
N18932	Code Enforcement Assistant	C25
N18934	Code Enforcement Specialist	C27
N12736	Collect & Customer Svc Supv	C27
E34027	Collections & Svcs Admin	C31
N02163	Collector-Messenger	C22
E34127	Coll, Systems/Fleet Maint Admin	C31
N27634	Commercial Combination Inspector	C29
N14421	Communications Network Analyst I	C28
N14423	Communications Network Analyst II	C29
N34673	Communications Technician	C26
N13331	Computer Operator I	C24
N13333	Computer Operator II	C25
N03333	Construction Compliance Officer	C28
N21433	Construction Mgt Inspector	C28
N20135	Construction Project Coordinator	C29
N20036	Construction Project Manager	C30
N22433	Construction/Environmental Inspector	C28
N28431	Control Systems Analyst I	C28
N28433	Control Systems Analyst II	C29
E20524	Control Systems Engineer	C32
N10383	Cook	C24
N10385	Cook/lnstructor	C25
N46441	Coroner Investigator	C26
N01524	Court Interpretive Svcs Spec	C27
N09621	Court Liaison Officer I	C27
N09622	Court Liaison Officer II	C28
N01464	Court Recorder/Transcriber	C25
N01461	Court Transcriber I	C22
N01463	Court Transcriber II	C23
N41424	Curator of Education	C28
N41324	Curator of Exhibits	C28
71
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grat
N37483	Custodial Specialist	C22
N37482	Custodian	C21
N14021	Data Base Administrator I	C29
N14023	Data Base Administrator II	C30
N10432	Delinquent Tax/Fee Collector	C25
E13927	Departmental Systems Admin	C31
N13923	Departmental Systems Coord	C29
N13952	Departmental Systems Tech	C27
N00763	Deputy Clerk BCC	C26
N49022	Detention Program Specialist	C28
N19331	Development Technician I	C25
N19333	Development Technician II	C26
N20034	Drafting Specialist	C25
N31782	Driver	C21
N20065	Drug Court Program Coordinator	C29
N01561	D/F Courtroom Clerk I	C24
N01563	D/F Courtroom Clerk II	C25
N50664	Election Operations Specialist	C25
N50665	Election Program Supervisor	C27
N15483	Election Warehouse Supv	C27
N34773	Electrician	C26
N35873	Electrician -CDL	C26
N44164	Eligibility Specialist	C24
N44161	Eligibility Worker I	C22
N44163	Eligibility Worker II	C23
E47025	EMS Quality Assurance Admin	C29
E21625	Energy Program Admin	C31
N21131	Engineering Technician I	C24
N21133	Engineering Technician II	C25
N33275	Environmental Quality Specialist	C27
N32084	Equipment Coordinator	C29
N31883	Equipment Operator	C25
N47322	Estate Case Manager Asst	C25
N47321	Estate Case Manager I	C27
N47323	Estate Case Manager II	C28
N47451	Estate Coordinator I	C25
N47453	Estate Coordinator II	C26
N47433	Estate Technician	C24
N01061	Evidence Custodian I	C24
N01063	Evidence Custodian II	C25
N34073	Facility Maintenance Technician	C26
N10021	Family Med Spec I	C28
N10023	Family Med Spec II	C29
72
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grat
N02761	Family Support Specialist I	C23
N02763	Family Support Specialist II	C24
N50663	Field Oper Coord	C24
N00262	Financial Office Assistant I	C21
N00263	Financial Office Assistant II	C22
N00264	Financial Office Specialist	C23
N29073	Fire Equipment Technician	C26
N36176	Fire Mechanical Supervisor	C30
N20824	Fire Protection Engineer	C31
N47031	Forensic Assistant	C21
N01363	Forensic Medical Transcriber	C23
N47131	Forensic Pathology Technician I	C24
N47133	Forensic Pathology Technician II	C25
N22021	GIS Analyst I	C28
N22023	GIS Analyst II	C29
N22031	GIS Technician I	C25
N22033	GIS Technician II	C26
N16824	Graphic Artist	C28
N16854	Graphic Specialist	C24
N31884	Heavy Equipment Operator	C26
N31784	Heavy Truck Driver	C25
N43982	Home Health Aide	C22
N33734	Horticultural Specialist	C25
N34873	HVAC Mechanic	C26
N29173	Hydrant Technician	C26
N20721	Hydrologist I	C28
N20723	Hydrologist II	C29
N37583	Industrial Window Washer	C23
N28131	Instrumentation Technician I	C25
N28133	Instrumentation Technician II	C26
N11224	Investigative Auditor	C30
N46242	Investigator I - PD	C26
N46243	Investigator II - PD	C27
N33733	Irrigation Systems Technician	C25
N13051	IT Customer Support Spec I	C25
N13053	IT Customer Support Spec II	C26
N00766	Jury Commissioner	C27
N01964	Justice Court Intake Specialist	C24
N01261	Justice Courtroom Clerk I	C23
N01263	Justice Courtroom Clerk II	C24
N09252	Juvenile Detention Assistant	C22
N09021	Juvenile Probation Officer I - Early Retirement	E27
N09121	Juvenile Probation Officer I	C27
73
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grac
N09023	Juvenile Probation Officer II	C28
N09023	Juvenile Probation Officer II - Early Retirement	E28
N39831	Laboratory Technician I	C24
N39833	Laboratory Technician II	C25
N21524	Landscape Architect	C29
N21523	Landscape Designer	C28
N40038	Laughlin Facilities Operator	C28
E40137	Laughlin Operations Admin	C31
N40232	Laughlin Utilities Technician	C25
N43461	Law Librarian I	C26
N43463	Law Librarian II	C27
N43361	Law Library Assistant I	C22
N43363	Law Library Assistant II	C23
N43364	Law Library Technician	C24
N00362	Legal Office Assistant I	C21
N00363	Legal Office Assistant II	C22
N00364	Legal Office Specialist	C23
N01661	Legal Secretary I	C23
N01663	Legal Secretary II	C24
N01761	Legal Word Processor I	C22
N01763	Legal Word Processor II	C23
N01766	Legal Word Processor Supv	C24
N31483	Line Service Representative	C22
N34973	Locksmith	C26
N28271	Maintenance Mechanic I	C25
N28273	Maintenance Mechanic II	C26
N31581	Maintenance Worker I	C22
N31681	Maintenance Worker I - CDL	C22
N31583	Maintenance Worker II	C23
N31683	Maintenance Worker II - CDL	C23
N04121	Management Analyst I	C28
N04123	Management Analyst II	C29
N15383	Materials Controller	C26
N39921	Microbiologist I	C27
N39923	Microbiologist II	C28
N05561	Microfilm Operator I	C20
N05563	Microfilm Operator II	C21
N41353	Museum Registrar	C26
N00162	Office Assistant I	C20
N00163	Office Assistant II	C21
N00161	Office Services Aide	C19
N00164	Office Specialist	C22
N16671	Offset Duplicating Operator I	C23
	74	
N16673	Offset Duplicating Operator II	C24
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grade
N33973	Painter	C26
N33873	Painter - CDL	C26
N07053	Paralegal	C26
N02467	Paratransit Monitor	C23
N35273	Park Construction/Maintenance Techn	C25
N33981	Park Maintenance Worker I	C22
N33983	Park Maintenance Worker II	C23
N23863	Parking Attendant	C21
N33684	Pesticide/Herbicide Specialist	C25
N27824	Plan Check Specialist	C29
N27821	Plan Checker I	C27
N27823	Plan Checker II	C28
N19121	Planner	C28
N19133	Planning Technician	C24
N34373	Plumber	C26
N34374	Plumber - CDL	C26
N37481	Porter	C20
N28333	Pretreatment Inspector	C28
N28331	Pretreatment Technician	C26
E11525	Principal Accountant	C30
E21027	Principal Civil Engineer	C32
N21136	Principal Engineering Technician	C28
E04126	Principal Management Analyst	C31
E19125	Principal Planner	C30
E40134	Process Control Specialist	C31
N46241	Process Server	C22
N41733	Production Specialist	C27
N14121	Programmer Analyst I	C28
N14123	Programmer Analyst II	C29
N20035	Project Coordinator	C29
N25126	Property Appraisal Supervisor	C30
N25152	Property Appraiser I	C27
N25123	Property Appraiser II	C28
N25151	Property Appraiser Trainee	C25
N44324	Psychiatric Social Worker	C28
N47421	Public Guardian Case Manager I	C27
N47423	Public Guardian Case Manager II	C28
N47422	Public Guardian Case Mgr Asst	C25
E41527	Public Info Administrator	C29
N41524	Public Information Coordinator	C28
N41554	Public Information Specialist	C24
N01162	Public Services Assistant	C21
N01164	Public Services Specialist	C22
75
N15521	Purchasing Analyst I	C28
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grade
N15523	Purchasing Analyst II	C29
N15551	Purchasing Technician I	C22
N15553	Purchasing Technician II	C23
N25124	Real Property Appraiser Spec	C29
N00461	Recordation Technician I	C22
N00463	Recordation Technician II	C23
N41252	Recreation/Cultural Assistant	C23
N41266	Recreation/Cultural Prog Supv	C28
N41261	Recreation/Cultural Spec I	C24
N41264	Recreation/Cultural Spec II	C25
N47023	Registered Nurse	C28
N18625	Regulatory Analyst	C29
N33373	Revenue Equipment Technician	C25
N21331	Right-of-Way Agent I	C27
N21333	Right-of-Way Agent II	C28
N02469	Routing Specialist	C23
N01153	RTC Control Center Spec	C22
E34227	RTC Maintenance Administrator	C31
N33881	Rural Parks & Rec Worker I	C23
N33883	Rural Parks & Rec Worker II	C24
N06254	Safety Officer	C30
N12733	Sanitation Billing Inspector	C25
N27961	Sanitation Permit Technician I	C22
N27963	Sanitation Permit Technician II	C23
N28531	SD Control Sys Tech I	C26
N28533	SD Control Sys Tech II	C27
N34074	SD Facil Maint Tech-CDL	C26
N34177	SD Planner/Scheduler	C29
N34078	SD Sr Facil Maint Tech - CDL	C27
N40132	SD Technician	C25
N00563	Secretary	C22
N31641	Security Guard	C20
N31646	Security Systems Coordinator	C27
N31682	Shuttle Bus Driver	C21
N31686	Shuttle Bus Shift Supervisor	C22
N34473	Sign Maker	C24
N34072	Skilled Trades Worker	C24
N34172	Skilled Trades Worker - CDL	C24
N02166	Slot Drop Supervisor	C24
N44421	Social Svcs Mediation Spec I	C27
N44424	Social Svcs Mediation Spec II	C28
N44224	Social Work Specialist	C29
N44252	Social Work Technician	C25
76
N44221	Social Worker I	C27
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grade
N44223	Social Worker II	C28
N00844	Special Agent	C28
N46244	Special Investigator	C28
N11125	Sr Accountant	C29
N18335	Sr Air Quality Specialist	C29
N23565	Sr Airport Bike Patrol	C22
N24055	Sr Airport Operations Dispatcher	C25
N23945	Sr Airport Transportation Spec	C24
N45365	Sr Animal Control Dispatcher	C23
N45545	Sr Animal Control Officer	C26
N25065	Sr Appraisal Technician	C24
N18335	Sr AQ Monitoring Tech	C29
N27533	Sr Building Inspector	C28
N27865	Sr Building Permit Specialist	C25
N27765	Sr Building Records Technician	C25
N00945	Sr Business License Agent	C28
N00963	Sr Business License Tech	C24
N14525	Sr Business Systems Analyst	C30
N34175	Sr Carpenter	C27
N16575	Sr Central Services Worker	C24
N39825	Sr Chemist	C29
N09425	Sr Child Development Spec	C29
N09325	Sr Child Protective Svcs Spec	C29
N09525	Sr Child & Family Intervent Spec	C30
E21025	Sr Civil Engineer	C31
N18935	Sr Code Enforcement Specialist	C28
N34675	Sr Communications Technician	C27
N13335	Sr Computer Operator	C26
N21435	Sr Construction Mgt Inspector	C29
N46443	Sr Coroner Investigator	C27
N01465	Sr Court Recorder/Transcriber	C26
N37485	Sr Custodian	C22
N14025	Sr Data Base Administrator	C31
N10435	Sr Delinquent Tax/Fee Collector	C26
N46345	Sr Deputy Sheriff Field Officer	C27
E20925	Sr Electrical Engineer	C31
N34775	Sr Electrician	C27
N44165	Sr Eligibility Worker	C25
N21135	Sr Engineering Technician	C27
E20825	Sr Engineer/Architect	C31
N47325	Sr Estate Case Manager	C29
N47455	Sr Estate Coordinator	C27
N34075	Sr Facility Maintenance Tech	C27
77
N02765	Sr Family Support Specialist	C25
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grade
N00265	Sr Financial Office Assistant	C23
N00665	Sr Financial Office Specialist	C24
N29075	Sr Fire Equipment Technician	C27
N47135	Sr Forensic Pathology Tech	C26
N22025	Sr GIS Analyst	C30
N43985	Sr Home Health Aide	C23
N34875	Sr HVAC Mechanic	C27
N20724	Sr Hydrologist	C31
N13055	Sr Info Technology Customer Support Spec	C27
N28135	Sr Instrumentation Technician	C27
N21525	Sr Landscape Architect	C30
N00365	Sr Legal Office Assistant	C23
N00765	Sr Legal Office Specialist	C24
N28275	Sr Maintenance Mechanic	C27
N31585	Sr Maintenance Worker	C24
N31685	Sr Maintenance Worker - CDL	C24
E04125	Sr Management Analyst	C30
E20725	Sr Mechanical Engineer	C31
N39925	Sr Microbiologist	C29
N14425	Sr Network Analyst	C30
E20625	Sr Nuclear Waste Engineer	C31
N00165	Sr Office Assistant	C22
N00065	Sr Office Specialist	C23
N16675	Sr Offset Duplicating Operator	C25
N33985	Sr Park Maintenance Worker	C24
N33984	Sr Park Maintenance Worker - CDL	C24
E27825	Sr Plan Checker	C30
N19123	Sr Planner	C29
N14125	Sr Programmer Analyst	C30
N25125	Sr Property Appraiser	C29
N47425	Sr Public Guardian Case Mgr	C29
N01165	Sr Public Services Specialist	C23
E15525	Sr Purchasing Analyst	C30
N00465	Sr Recordation Technician	C24
N33375	Sr Revenue Equipment Tech	C26
N33885	Sr Rural Parks & Rec Worker	C25
N12735	Sr Sanitation Billing Inspector	C26
N28535	Sr SD Control Sys Tech	C28
N00565	Sr Secretary	C23
N34475	Sr Sign Maker	C25
N44225	Sr Social Worker	C29
N44425	Sr SS Mediation Spec	C29
N15285	Sr Storekeeper	C24
78
N21235	Sr Survey Technician	C26
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grade
N33535	Sr Swimming Pool Technician	C26
N14335	Sr Systems Operator	C26
E14226	Sr Systems Programmer	C31
N13825	Sr Systems Technician	C29
N02265	Sr Telephone/Paging Operator	C22
N02365	Sr Transit Customer Service Rep	C22
N02185	Sr Vault Attendant	C23
N02864	Sr Victim Witness Advocate	C26
N33475	Sr Voting Machine Technician	C26
N40035	Sr Water Plant Operator	C27
N40135	Sr WW Treatment Plant Operator	C27
N15283	Storekeeper	C23
N31984	Street Sweeper Operator	C25
N27866	Supv Building Permit Specialist	C27
N27766	Supv Building Records Tech	C27
N00866	Supv Business License Tech	C25
N04366	Supv DA Administrative Svcs	C27
N10436	Supv Delinquent Tax Collector	C27
N19336	Supv Development Technician	C28
N01666	Supv Legal Secretary	C26
N33986	Supv Park Maintenance Worker	C26
N19946	Supv Transit Monitor	C25
N21231	Survey Technician I	C24
N21233	Survey Technician II	C25
N33533	Swimming Pool Technician	C25
N14331	Systems Operator I	C24
N14333	Systems Operator II	C25
N14221	Systems Programmer I	C29
N14223	Systems Programmer II	C30
N13821	Systems Technician I	C27
N13823	Systems Technician II	C28
N43263	Technical Librarian	C26
N02263	Telephone/Paging Operator	C21
N24153	Terminal 2 Ops Coordinator	C27
N35074	Traffic Safety Coordinator	C27
N35073	Traffic Systems Technician	C27
N02363	Transit Customer Service Rep	C21
N19944	Transit Data Technician	C24
N02463	Transit Dispatcher	C22
N05063	Transit Distribution Assistant	C22
N05066	Transit Distribution Supervisor	C27
N02354	Transit Mobility Specialist	C23
N19943	Transit Monitor	C23
79
N31582	Transit Worker	C20
Class		Pay
Code	Class Title	Grade
N33783	Tree Trimmer	C25
N31783	Truck Driver	C24
N02182	Vault Attendant	C22
N45681	Vector Control Officer I	C24
N45683	Vector Control Officer II	C25
N02861	Victim Witness Advocate I	C23
N02863	Victim Witness Advocate II	C24
N02865	Victim Witness Translation Specialist	C25
N02966	Volunteer Coordinator	C29
N33473	Voting Machine Technician	C26
N40036	Water Ops & Maintenance Supv	C30
N40031	Water Plant Operator I	C25
N40033	Water Plant Operator II	C26
N35173	Welder	C26
N35174	Welder-CDL	C26
N40131	WW Treatment Plant Operator I	C25
N40133	WWTreatment Plant Operator II	C26
N09522	Youth & Family Counselor	C28
80
APPENDIX B
Clark County Salary Schedules & Ranges July 1, 2002 - June 30, 2003 SALARY RANGE
Schedule	Minimum	Maximum
C19	Annual Biweekly Hourly	20,660.64 794.64 9.933	32,032.00 1,232.00 15.400
C20	Annual Biweekly Hourly	22,459.84 863.84 10.798	34,812.96 1,338.96 16.737
C21	Annual Biweekly Hourly	24,256.96 932.96 11.662	37,600.16 1,446.16 18.077
C22	Annual Biweekly Hourly	26,201.76 1,007.76 12.597	40,609.92 1,561.92 19.524
C23	Annual Biweekly Hourly	28,298.40 1,088.40 13.605	43,852.64 1,686.64 21.083
C24	Annual Biweekly Hourly	30,559.36 1,175.36 14.692	47,365.76 1,821.76 22.772
C25	Annual Biweekly Hourly	33,003.36 1,269.36 15.867	51,151.36 1,967.36 24.592
C26	Annual Biweekly Hourly	35,644.96 1,370.96 17.137	55,246.88 2,124.88 26.561
81
Schedule C27	Annual Biweekly Hourly	Minimum 38,496.64 1,480.64 18.508	Maximum 59,666.88 2,294.88 28.686
C28	Annual Biweekly Hourly	41,575.04 1,599.04 19.988	64,440.48 2,478.48 30.981
C29	Annual Biweekly Hourly	44,898.88 1,726.88 21.586	69,592.64 2,676.64 33.458
C30	Annual Biweekly Hourly	48,493.12 1,865.12 23.314	75,162.88 2,890.88 36.136
C31	Annual Biweekly Hourly	52,372.32 2,014.32 25.179	81,176.16 3,122.16 39.027
C32	Annual Biweekly Hourly	56,563.52 2,175.52 27.194	87,667.84 3,371.84 42.148
C33	Annual Biweekly Hourly	61,085.44 2,349.44 29.368	94,681.60 3,641.60 45.520
82
APPENDIX C
Clark County Salary Schedules & Ranges July 1, 2003 - June 30, 2004
		SALARY RANGE	
Schedule C19	Annual Biweekly Hourly	Minimum 21,228.48 816.48 10.206	Maximum 32,913.92 1,265.92 15.824
C20	Annual Biweekly Hourly	23,077.60 887.60 11.095	35,769.76 1,375.76 17.197
C21	Annual Biweekly Hourly	24,924.64 958.64 11.983	38,633.92 1,485.92 18.574
C22	Annual Biweekly Hourly	26,921.44 1,035.44 12.943	41,726.88 1,604.88 20.061
C23	Annual Biweekly Hourly	29,076.32 1,118.32 13.979	45,059.04 1,733.04 21.663
C24	Annual Biweekly Hourly	31,399.68 1,207.68 15.096	48,667.84 1,871.84 23.398
C25	Annual Biweekly Hourly	33,910.24 1,304.24 16.303	52,557.44 2,021.44 25.268
C26	Annual Biweekly Hourly	36,624.64 1,408.64 17.608	56,765.28 2,183.28 27.291
83
Schedule C27	Minimum		Maximum 61,308.00 2,358.00 29.475
	Annual Biweekly Hourly	39,555.36 1,521.36 19.017	
C28	Annual Biweekly Hourly	42,719.04 1,643.04 20.538	66,212.64 2,546.64 31.833
C29	Annual Biweekly Hourly	46,134.40 1,774.40 22.180	71,506.24 2,750.24 34.378
C30	Annual Biweekly Hourly	49,826.40 1,916.40 23.955	77,230.40 2,970.40 37.130
C31	Annual Biweekly Hourly	53,811.68 2,069.68 25.871	83,408.00 3,208.00 40.100
C32	Annual Biweekly Hourly	58,119.36 2,235.36 27.942	90,078.56 3,464.56 43.307
C33	Annual Biweekly Hourly	62,766.08 2,414.08 30.176	97,285.76 3,741.76 46.772
84
APPENDIX D
Clark County Salary Schedules & Ranges July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005
Schedule C19	Annual Biweekly Hourly	SALARY RANGE Minimum 21,864.96 840.96 10.512	Maximum 33,901.92 1,303.92 16.299
C20	Annual Biweekly Hourly	23,770.24 914.24 11.428	36,843.04 1,417.04 17.713
C21	Annual Biweekly Hourly	25,671.36 987.36 12.342	39,792.48 1,530.48 19.131
C22	Annual Biweekly Hourly	27,728.48 1,066.48 13.331	42,979.04 1,653.04 20.663
C23	Annual Biweekly Hourly	29,947.84 1,151.84 14.398	46,411.04 1,785.04 22.313
C24	Annual Biweekly Hourly	32,341.92 1,243.92 15.549	50,128.00 1,928.00 24.100
C25	Annual Biweekly Hourly	34,927.36 1,343.36 16.792	54,134.08 2,082.08 26.026
C26	Annual Biweekly Hourly	37,722.88 1,450.88 18.136	58,468.80 2,248.80 28.110
85
Schedule C27	Annual Biweekly Hourly	Minimum 40,743.04 1,567.04 19.588	Maximum 63,146.72 2,428.72 30.359
C28	Annual Biweekly Hourly	44,000.32 1,692.32 21.154	68,199.04 2,623.04 32.788
C29	Annual Biweekly Hourly	47,517.60 1,827.60 22.845	73,650.72 2,832.72 35.409
C30	Annual Biweekly Hourly	51,321.92 1,973.92 24.674	79,547.52 3,059.52 38.244
C31	Annual Biweekly Hourly	55,425.76 2,131.76 26.647	85,910.24 3,304.24 41.303
C32	Annual Biweekly Hourly	59,862.40 2,302.40 28.780	92,780.48 3,568.48 44.606
C33	Annual Biweekly Hourly	64,648.48 2,486.48 31.081	100,204.00 3,854.00 48.175
86
APPENDIX E
Clark County Salary Schedules & Ranges July 1, 2005 - June 30, 2006
Schedule		SALARY RANGE Minimum	Maximum
C19	Annual Biweekly Hourly	22,520.16 866.16 10.827	34,919.04 1,343.04 16.788
C20	Annual Biweekly Hourly	24,483.68 941.68 11.771	37,947.52 1,459.52 18.244
C21	Annual Biweekly Hourly	26,440.96 1,016.96 12.712	40,986.40 1,576.40 19.705
C22	Annual Biweekly Hourly	28,560.48 1,098.48 13.731	44,268.64 1,702.64 21.283
C23	Annual Biweekly Hourly	30,846.40 1,186.40 14.830	47,802.56 1,838.56 22.982
C24	Annual Biweekly Hourly	33,311.20 1,281.20 16.015	51,631.84 1,985.84 24.823
C25	Annual Biweekly Hourly	35,975.68 1,383.68 17.296	55,758.56 2,144.56 26.807
C26	Annual Biweekly Hourly	38,854.40 1,494.40 18.680	60,222.24 2,316.24 28.953
87
Schedule C27	Minimum		Maximum 65,041.60 2,501.60 31.270
	Annual Biweekly Hourly	41,966.08 1,614.08 20.176	
C28	Annual Biweekly Hourly	45,321.12 1,743.12 21.789	70,245.76 2,701.76 33.772
C29	Annual Biweekly Hourly	48,942.40 1,882.40 23.530	75,859.68 2,917.68 36.471
C30	Annual Biweekly Hourly	52,861.12 2,033.12 25.414	81,933.28 3,151.28 39.391
C31	Annual Biweekly Hourly	57,087.68 2,195.68 27.446	88,487.36 3,403.36 42.542
C32	Annual Biweekly Hourly	61,657.44 2,371.44 29.643	95,563.52 3,675.52 45.944
C33	Annual Biweekly Hourly	66,587.04 2,561.04 32.013	103,209.60 3,969.60 49.620
88
APPENDIX F Definitions
Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to them below. Any words or terms not ascribed below shall be interpreted in their context as such appears in this Agreement and, if no context is apparent, shall be given their plain and ordinary meaning.
SECTION 1
1.	Actual Service The number of days actually worked on the job. Sick leave with pay, vacation with pay, injury or illness incurred in the County Service during the period the employee is receiving compensation from the County and absence on temporary military duty or Union leave shall be considered time worked for the purposes of determining actual service.
2.	Administrative Employee Any employee whose primary duties consist of work directly related to formulating and administering management policies and programs, who regularly exercises discretion and independent judgment. In addition, it includes the County Manager, General Manager of Clark County Water Reclamation District, Law Library Director, General Manager of Clark County Regional Flood Control District, General Manager of Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada, his/her deputy and immediate assistants, attorneys, all classifications assigned to the Management Compensation Plan and others who are primarily responsible for formulating and administering management policy and programs. Administrative employees are not covered by this Agreement.
3.	Appointing Authority An official having authority to legally make appointments to positions in the County service.
4.	Arbitrator An impartial third party chosen in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement for the purpose of deciding appropriate grievances submitted in accordance with such Agreement.
5.	Base Salary That rate of pay provided to an employee as compensation reflected in the salary appendices in exchange for services provided exclusive of any cash or non-cash benefits.
6.	Break in Service Those periods during which an employee is not in pay status and is ineligible to accrue annual leave, sick leave, longevity and other benefits unless otherwise delineated in the Agreement.
7.	Certificate of Fitness A signed statement from a state licensed health care provider
89
indicating whether an employee is medically able to perform regularly assigned job duties without restriction or limitation.
8.	Certificate of Illness A statement signed by a state licensed health care provider describing the type and extent of disability causing absence from job duties. Such statement shall, if possible, also include the provider's opinion as to when and if an employee is able to return to assigned job duties.
9.	Compensatory Time Paid time off due an employee in lieu of overtime pay.
10.	Confidential Employee An employee occupying a position which by the nature of its duties has access to decisions of management affecting employee relations and has been designated confidential by the County Manager. In addition, it includes any employee occupying a position in the County Manager's Office or the Office of Human Resources. Confidential employees are not covered by this Agreement.
11.	Continuous Service That service commencing with appointment to a permanent budgeted position and continuing until separation from County service minus any breaks in service.
12.	Demotion The movement of an employee from one classification to another classification with a lower salary range.
13.	Department Head Appointed or elected official directly responsible to the County Manager, Assistant County Manager(s), or the electorate for the overall administration of a department.
14.	Division Head A subordinate to the department head who has administrative responsibility for a major functional unit within the department.
15.	Emergency A situation during which the needs of the department require a position to be filled immediately due to operational needs and the delay would cause substantial problems in completing the mission of the department.
16.	Grant Employee An employee occupying a position funded by grant monies. Such employees accrue fringe benefits in the manner set forth in this Agreement.
However, the term of employment is subject to the continuance of grant funds and such employees shall be terminated without rights of appeal when such funds are no longer available.
17.	Initial Appointment First position held by an individual in the competitive service of the County.
18.	Job Vacancy A budgeted position in the competitive service to which an appointment has not been made.
90
19.	Local Government Employee Management Relations Act Chapter 288 of the Nevada Revised Statutes and the Nevada Administrative Code, along with any amendments thereto and judicial interpretations thereof.
20.	Local Government Employee Any person employed by Clark County, Clark County Water Reclamation District, Clark County Regional Transportation Commission, Clark County Regional Flood Control District, or Clark County Law Library.
21.	Local Government Employer Clark County, Clark County Water Reclamation District, Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada, Clark County Regional Flood Control District or Clark County Law Library.
22.	Negotiations The process of collective bargaining between the County and the Union in determining the relationship between both parties, conditions of employment, and compliance with such conditions.
23.	Overtime Pay Money due an employee for the hours he/she is reguired by his/her supervisor to work overtime.
24.	Part Time Hourly Employee One who is hired to fill a part-time hourly position and normally works 20 hours or less per week. Such employees are paid only for the actual hours worked and are not eligible for any other benefits of employment. Parttime hourly employees are not covered by this Agreement.
25.	Part-Time Hourly Position A position in the non-competitive service having an irregularly scheduled work week (normally 20 hours or less per week).
26.	Permanent Employee One who has successfully completed his/her initial probationary period in a permanent position.
27.	Permanent-Intermittent Employee One who has successfully completed his/her initial probationary period in a permanent-intermittent position and works a regularly scheduled workweek of 21 hours or more but less than 40 hours. Such employees accrue all fringe benefits as set forth in the Agreement on a prorated basis.
28.	Permanent-Intermittent Position A permanent position in the competitive service which reguires 21 hours or more but less than full-time employment.
29.	Permanent Position A budgeted position in the competitive service with a normally -scheduled workweek of 40 hours or more.
30.	Privileged Documents Those documents that pertain to security checks, reference
91
materials from past employers or schools, and subjective evaluations elicited during the selection process.
31.	Probationary Employee One who is hired to fill a budgeted position but who has not completed the probationary period. Probationary employees are not covered by this Agreement.
32.	Probationary Period That period of time after initial appointment during which the employee has not attained permanent status in that classification.
33.	Promotion The movement of an employee from one classification to another classification with a higher salary range.
34.	Qualifying An initial period served in a position by a permanent employee as a result of a promotion. Transferred employees may be required to serve a qualifying period.
35.	Reassignment Any non-disciplinary movement of an employee from one position to another position having the same salary range within the same department.
36.	Recall The procedure under the provisions of Article 13 of this Agreement for the return of employees who have been laid off.
37.	Rehire The appointment of a former permanent or permanent-intermittent employee who separated from County service in good standing.
38.	Reinstatement The restoring of a permanent or permanent-intermittent employee to his/her previous position under the provisions of Article 11 (dispute resolution procedure).
39.	Service Connected Disability Physical or mental incapacity resulting from an injury by accident or an occupational disease arising out of and in the course of employment which prevents an employee from engaging in assigned job duties and for which he/she is eligible for State Industrial Insurance System benefits.
40.	Salary Adjustment The progression from a lower pay level in a salary range to a higher pay level within the same salary range.
41.	Strike A concerted:
(a)	Stoppage of work, slowdown or interruption of operations by local government employees;
(b)	Absence from work by local government employees upon any pretext or excuse, such as illness, which is not founded in fact; or
92
(c)	Interruption of the operations of the County by the Union.
42.	Supervisor An employee occupying a position, which is responsible for directing the work of other employees.
43.	Temporary Employee One who is hired to fill a budgeted or a non-budgeted position not to exceed six (6) months. If a temporary employee applies for and is hired to fill a budgeted permanent or permanent-intermittent position, his/her probationary period shall be retroactive to the date of employment in the temporary position if in the same class. However, benefits eligibility and accrual shall begin on the date of initial appointment into the permanent or permanent-intermittent position. Temporary employees are not covered by this Agreement.
44.	Temporary Position A budgeted or non-budgeted position in the noncompetitive service approved for a limited period of time, not to exceed six (6) months.
45.	Term Employee An employee occupying a position limited in duration to more than six (6) months. Such employees accrue fringe benefits in the manner set forth in this Agreement. When the position ends, such employees shall be terminated without rights of appeal.
46.	Term Position A budgeted position in the competitive service approved for a limited period of time of more than six (6) months.
47.	Transfer The movement of an employee from a position in one County department to a position in another County department having the same salary range.
48.	Volunteer A person in a non-budgeted position who performs assigned duties without compensation. Volunteers are not covered by this Agreement.
49.	Workday As referred to in all Articles excluding Article 11, Article 12 and Article 24 of this Agreement, the official workday shall begin at 12:01 a.m. and end at midnight each day of the week.
50.	Working Day As referred to in Article 11 and Article 24 of this Agreement, a working day shall be a day County offices are normally open for business, which is Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. excluding holidays. In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by Article 11, Article 12 and Article 24, the day of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall not be included.
93
SECTION 2	- DISCIPLINE RELATED DEFINITIONS
Discipline not subject to the grievance procedure
1.	Documented oral warnings - typically, the first step in the progressive discipline process. Documented oral warnings may be issued for non-egregious violations of this Agreement, county and/or department rules, deficient performance or acts of misconduct, and shall be conveyed to the employee in writing and placed in the employee’s file.
2.	Admonishments - the next step in the progressive discipline process beyond documented oral warnings. Admonishments are intended to inform the employee that any recurrence of similar violations or misconduct will result in formal discipline. Admonishments shall be reduced to writing and conveyed to the employee and placed in the employee’s file.
Formal discipline subject to the grievance procedure
3.	Written reprimands - the first step in the formal discipline process. While part of the progressive discipline process, written reprimands may be utilized for more serious violations of this agreement, county and/or department rules, or acts of misconduct. Written reprimands shall be reduced to writing and conveyed to the employee and placed in the employee’s file.
4.	Final written warnings - the final step in the progressive discipline process prior to termination, which may also be utilized for more serious violations of this agreement, county, department rules or acts of misconduct, and/or continued performance deficiencies. Final written warnings shall be reduced to writing and conveyed to the employee and placed in the employee’s file.
5.	Termination - to end the employment status of the employee. Terminations are the final step in the progressive discipline process, but may also be utilized for the most severe violations of this agreement, county and/or department rules, egregious actions, or acts of gross misconduct.
6.	Suspension - a temporary break in service without pay used in connection with violation of Article 36 (substance abuse policy).
7.	Demotion - the involuntary movement of an employee from one classification to another classification with a lower salary range for cause.
94
APPENDIX G Clark County’s Substance Abuse Program Observation/lncident Report
Reasonable Cause	Post-Accident (check one)
Date of Report Time of Day
Name of Observed Employee________________________________________________
Location of Observation__________________________________________________
Observer_________________________________ _______________________________
Name	Signature
Position	1st 2nd Other
(Supervisor)
Reasonable Cause Testing:
Reasonable cause for testing is a belief that an employee is under the influence of a drug and/or alcohol based on specific facts and/or reasonable inferences derived from those facts. An observing supervisor shall describe and document the following:
-	Specific observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech or performance of the employee; and/or
-	Violation of safety rule or other unsafe work incident which, after investigation, leads the supervisor(s) to believe that drug and/or alcohol use may be a contributing factor; and/or
-	Other physical, circumstantial or immediate indicators of drug and/or alcohol use.
Post-Accident Testing:
An employee involved in an accident while on duty may be required to undergo a drug and alcohol test when there is property damage that exceeds $500, and/or personal injury. An observing supervisor shall describe and document the following:
-	Description of accident
-	Resulting personal injury; and/or
-	Resulting property damage.
REASONABLE CAUSE INDICATORS OR ACCIDENT SUMMARY:
Associated with reasonable cause indicators and/or accidents are a variety of "warning signs" which usually appear on the job. Check the symptom or symptoms you have
95
observed in the employee.
Drowsiness Constricted/dilated pupils Euphoria (elevated mood) Extreme mood changes Poor time/distance perception Exaggerated sense of ability Poor hand/eye coordination Excessive irritability Rapid or slow breathing Stares off into space Drunken behavior with or without odor of alcohol
ACTIONS TAKEN:
Watery, glassy, red eyes Hallucinations
Relaxed inhibitions
Disoriented behavior Slurred speech Excessively talkative Wanders aimlessly Depression Rapid speech Staggering walk Violent behavior
______ Other_____________________
COMMENTS BY EMPLOYEE:
CONTINUATION FROM FIRST PAGE IF NECESSARY:
TESTING PROCEDURES CHECKLIST:
 Complete and send Observation/lncident Report (Section 4 (a))
 Advise employee of right to request second supervisor (Section 4 (b))
 Advise employee of right to Union representation (Section 4 (c))
 Advise employee of leave procedures (Section 4 (e))
 Advise employee of refusal to test policy (Section 4 (g))
 Transport employee to collection site and make arrangements for transporting the employee home (Section 4 (d))
cc: Department Head
Employee Relations Division of Clark County Human Resources
96
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
This Memorandum of Agreement is made by and between the County of Clark, hereinafter “Employer”, and the Services Employees International Union, Local 1107, hereinafter “Union”, and is intended to: 1) provide an agreement as to the requirements and time frames necessary to implement the agreed upon progressive discipline process, 2) outline the duration a discipline must remain in the personnel file for egregious violations as delineated below, and 3) describe how substance abuse violators will be subject to the discipline procedures outlined in Article 36.
Whereas, the Employer and Union agree that an understanding needs to be defined in reference to implementation of the agreed upon progressive discipline process, timelines to retain discipline for the delineated egregious violations in the personnel file, and substance abuse violations;
Now, therefore, let it be remembered that it was agreed that the following would pertain:
Progressive Discipline Process Implementation:
1.	Each department will receive training, conducted by Human Resources, to familiarize them with the agreed upon progressive discipline process, as well as, fact-finding and investigative methods.
2.	The agreed upon progressive discipline process will be implemented three months after the ratification of this agreement; until implementation is complete, employees will be covered by the 1998 Collective Bargaining Agreement, Article 11 Dispute Resolution Procedures. Employees grieving discipline issued under Article 11 of the 1998 Collective Bargaining Agreement prior to the implementation of the newly negotiated Article 11 shall proceed under the 1998 Collective Bargaining Agreement language until final determination is rendered. During this interim period, at the request of the Union, any written reprimand will be reviewed by Deputy Director of the Office of Human Resources.
Egregious Violations:
Infractions that create a liability for Clark County violate Federal and/or State Laws or County Code, and which result in a final written warning, may remain in the personnel file permanently dependent upon the final decision of the Arbitrator. Department of Aviation security procedure violations, which result in an immediate final written warning and are upheld by an Arbitrator or not grieved, are exempt from this provision and will remain in the employee’s personnel file permanently.
Substance Abuse Violations:
Employee rights and penalties related to substance abuse violations will be subject to the discipline procedures as outlined in Articles 36 and 11, sequentially.
97
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
This Memorandum of Agreement is made by and between the County of Clark, a government entity of the State of Nevada, Clark County Transportation Commission, Clark County Law Library, Clark County Regional Flood Control District and Clark County Sanitation District, hereinafter referred to as the “COUNTY”,” and SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION Local 1107”, hereafter referred to as the “UNION”. This Memorandum of Agreement is intended to memorialize the parties understanding and agreement with respect to the application of certain provisions relating to Article 31, Long Term Disability Insurance.
To wit;
1.	The parties agree that in the event the premium costs associated with the Long Term Disability Plan referenced in Article 31 increase during the term of the collective bargaining agreement between the County and the Union that such increase(s), (if any), in the premium shall be borne solely by the County to a cumulative maximum monthly amount of 5% for each year of the agreement subsequent to the premium increase effective January 1,2003, ($18.75).
2.	The parties further agree that in the event that at any time during the term of the collective bargaining agreement the premium amount exceeds that of the County’s contribution as specified in section 1 hereof, to maintain the benefit levels of the LTD plan in affect on January 1,2003, the Union may request in writing that the County maintain the initial benefits of the plan. Should the Union elect to make such a request, the difference in the premium cost and the employer contribution shall be borne by the employee through payroll deduction.
3.	Payroll deductions referenced in section 2 hereof shall also be subject to the approval of the County and the Plan provider.
98
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
The parties agree as follows:
SECTION 1
1)	The County recognizes SEIU Local 1107 as the exclusive bargaining agent for the supervisory classifications listed in Exhibit A to this MOA;
2)	To extend to the supervisory unit the same contract terms as bargained for the non-supervisory bargaining unit; and
3)	To, by mutual agreement and within 30 days of ratification of this agreement, remove any specific provisions from the supervisory and non-supervisory collective bargaining agreement that are not applicable to the respective assignments. Any provisions which the parties do not mutually agree to remove from the respective agreement shall not be removed from that agreement.
In addition, within 60 days of ratification of this Agreement, the parties shall meet and confer as to the appropriateness of the deletion of certain classifications from the non-supervisory unit, as indicated in Appendix A. If an agreement cannot be reached as to the deletion of said classifications, the union may petition the EMRB for final decision.
SECTION 2:	Article 15 Re-opener, should Employee Contribution to PERS Increase
Should increases to employee contributions to PERS go into effect during the term of this agreement, the parties also agree to negotiate possible wage increases beyond what is provided for under Article 15 to offset those increases. Furthermore, the parties agree that negotiations held under the reopening provision will not be subject to the impasse/dispute provisions of NRS 288.
99