Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Lincoln Board of Education and Lincoln Education Association, Nebraska State Education Association (NSEA), National Education Association (NEA), (2002)
K#: 820831
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
PROFESSIONAL AGREEMENT
Between
The Lincoln Public School^
and
The Lincoln Education Association
2002-2004
Lincoln, Nebraska
x
UNCOLN BOARD OF EDUCATION
Kathy Danek Doug Evans
James Garver Lillie Larsen Don Mayhew Keith Prettyman Ed Zimmer
Philip H. Schoo, Superintendent
LINCOLN EDUCATION ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS
President Dan Studer Vice President Arlene Rea Secretary/Treasurer Curtis Maim
Board Members
Rita Bennett Marge Keep Pat Etherton Randall Gordon Diana Pasco Daniel Ross Kathy Spahr Resa Wiltse
LEA/NSEA UniServ Staff Pat Shafer Executive Director Neal Clayburn
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LPS Board of Education, LEA Board of Directors..................1
ARTICLE I	Recognition.......................................3
ARTICLE II	Association Rights and Privileges.................3
ARTICLE III	Negotiations Procedures...........................6
ARTICLE IV	Grievance Procedure...............................8
ARTICLE V	Conditions of Employment.........................12
ARTICLE VI	Changes in Placement.............................22
ARTICLE VII	Professional Appraisal...........................27
ARTICLE VIII	Leaves from Duty..............................  28
ARTICLE DC	Compensation.....................................41
ARTICLE X	Incentive Pay....................................53
ARTICLE XI	Mileage Reimbursement............................56
ARTICLE XII	Fringe Benefits..................................56
ARTICLE XIE	Professional Committee..........................58
Appendix A	2002-2003 and 2003-2004 Salary Schedules.........61
Appendix B	Grievance Form...................................65
Index........................................................  69
2
This Agreement is made and entered into this September 1,2002 between the Board of Education of Lincoln, Nebraska and the Lincoln Education Association as the exclusive representative of the certificated employees as described herein. All italicized type is new information for 2002-2003.
The purpose of this Agreement is to establish terms and conditions of employment and a mutually determined procedure for the amicable adjustment of disputes arising from the relationship of the parties.
ARTICLE I RECOGNITION
The Board agrees to recognize exclusively the Lincoln Education Association for the purpose of representing the District's certificated staff, except school administrators and substitute teachers, for the purposes of negotiating collectively on terms and conditions of employment and the administration of grievances arising thereunder.
ARTICLE II
ASSOCIATION RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES
2-1 The Association has the following rights:
a.	The Association may transact official Association business on school district property at all reasonable times.
b.	The Association may use school facilities without charge when they are available for public use, except that the normal charge will be made for use on Saturdays, Sundays or on weekdays after 10:00 p.m.
c.	The Association offices shall be placed on the regular delivery route for inter-school mail delivery. The Association may use said delivery service, district mailboxes and bulletin boards, where available, for the purpose of communicating with Association members.
d.	Orientation Programs - The Association shall be provided time on the agenda of the general orientation programs for new certificated employees.
e.	Deductions shall be made and remitted to "the Association only on the basis of voluntary individual authorization signed by the certificated employee and forwarded to the District. The
3
Association shall provide the District with a monthly deduction amount by the 15th of September of any year. The payroll deductions shall be prorated over the regular pay periods from September through August. In order to provide for the regular payment of monies, the Association shall establish a monthly amount of deduction which shall be certified to the District by the Association on or before the 15th of any month. Signed voluntary deduction authorizations for new payroll members, and the list from the Association referred to above reflecting any changes, additions or subtractions in the monthly deduction, must be received by the District by the 15th of each month for such deduction to be deducted from any pay check for that pay period.
f.	In the event Association members vote to increase Association dues, the Association shall notify the District at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of the dues increase.
g.	During the terms of this Agreement, deductions shall be made in accordance with Section 1-e, and 1-f, of this Article and shall be transmitted to the Association within ten working days, with an itemized statement showing the name of each certificated employee for whom such deductions are made.
h.	In order for deductions to be made, a certificated employee's ■ earnings must be regularly sufficient to cover the amount of the appropriate Association deduction after other legal and required deductions are made. In case of unpaid leave of less than one school year, the Association shall provide for monthly cash payments from the member, or add such amounts on a prorated basis On their return from leave. Any such certificated employee shall have monies deducted from the last paycheck received, prior to the leave, not to exceed one additional month's deduction. The deduction will be resumed when the certificated em-
• ployee returns from leave. When a certificated employee is in a non-pay status for part of a pay period and earnings are not sufficient to cover the deductions, no deduction shall be made for that pay period.
i.	The Association will indemnify and hold the District harmless against any claims made or against any suits instituted against the Board on account of payroll deductions for the Association. Upon presentation of proper evidence thereof, the Association agrees to refund to the District or the certificated employee,
4
whichever is applicable, any amount paid to the Association in error because of the deduction provisions.
j.	Authorization shall be continuing except that during the period of March 1 through April 15 of any year a member may revoke such authorization to be effective September 1 the year of the revocation by providing written notice during said period to the Association and the payroll department of the District of the member's desire to terminate the deduction. Members who have a change in employment which moves them into an administrative position after the April 15 deadline may drop their membership provided their written request and an explanation of their change in status is received in the LEA office by September 1.
2-2 Student Teachers University Relations:
The Lincoln Public Schools shall set aside funds received from student teacher training institutions for distribution to teachers in accordance with recommendations made by the student teacher committee composed of Association and District representatives. The Board of Education has a responsibility to help insure that cooperating teachers get appropriate compensation from teacher training institutions.
a.	Professional staff members will have an opportunity to indicate a willingness to work in the teacher education program each semester. Student teachers will be assigned only to those staff members willing to participate in the program. As soon as the District is aware of tentative assignments, those assignments will be communicated to the individual cooperating teachers.
b.	In the event the professional staff member has a concern about the assignment and / or growth of a student teacher, the professional staff member will initiate the following process:
(1)	Schedule a conference with the student teacher, the university or college (U/C) supervisor and building principal to discuss the issues. The meeting may result in a plan or action including a timeline to resolve the concerns. The Human Resources Office shall be notified of the meeting.
(2)	Should the concern remain unresolved, the building principal shall schedule a meeting to include the building princi-
5
pal, the student teacher, the U/C supervisor, the cooperating teacher and a representative of the Human Resources Office. A joint decision may be reached to transfer the student teacher to another assignment within the school district or to cancel the student teacher's assignment with Lincoln Public Schools.
(3)	The student teacher and/or cooperating teacher may appeal the decision or action through established grievance channels within their respective organizations.
ARTICLE III NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURES
3-1 Negotiations shall be conducted as follows:
a.	No later than January 1, 2004, the Board agrees to enter into negotiation procedures set forth here in a good faith effort to reach an agreement concerning certificated employees' salaries, terms and conditions of employment and other items which have economic impact on certificated employees. The Board and Association shall meet to provide the Association the opportunity 7 to explain its proposals.
b.	The Board and the Association mutually agree that their representatives will hold all necessary authority to make and consider proposals and concessions in the course of negotiating, subject to ratification by the Board and Association.
c.	LEA staff and the LPS Supervisor of Employee Relations shall jointly develop data including, but not limited to, current staff schedule placement, cost projection model, comparability study and other such data as shall be deemed useful in the negotiations process. This data shall be shared by LPS and LEA. No data jointly developed shall be released to the press except by joint agreement.
d.	During negotiations, the two teams will generally use an interest based bargaining model to explore interests and develop options to meet those interests.
e.	Either party may utilize the services of outside consultants and may call upon professional or laypersons to assist negotiations.
6

f.	Negotiations will be conducted in closed sessions except the press will be allowed to be present at the initial negotiation presentations by both negotiations teams, unless otherwise agreed.
g.	Prior to the declaration of an impasse, the parties shall consider other alternatives to resolve the issues (e.g., a federal mediator). Should an impasse be declared, the parties shall resolve the impasse as provided in the statutes.
3-2 Negotiation Agreement
a.	The agreement shall be reduced to writing, submitted to the Board and Association for ratification, and following ratification, shall be signed by the parties.
b.	This agreement shall constitute the full and complete commitments between both parties and may be altered, changed, added to, deleted from, or modified only through the mutual consent of the parties in written and signed amendments to this agreement.
c.	This agreement shall supersede any rules, regulations, or practices of the Board which shall be contrary to or inconsistent with its terms. The provisions of the agreement shall be incorporated into and be considered part of the established policies of the Board.
d.	If any of this Agreement or any application of the Agreement to any employee or group of employees shall be found contrary to law, then such provisions or application shall not be deemed valid and subsisting except to the extent permitted by law, but all other provisions or applications shall continue in full force and effect.
e.	Copies of this agreement entitled "Professional Agreement Between the Lincoln Public Schools and the Lincoln Education Association" shall be printed at Board expense upon signatures by both parties and shall be made available to all certificated employees.
f.	This agreement shall become effective for. certificated staff on the first day of their contract for the 2002-2003 school year and continue through the 2003-2004 school year and shall remain in full force and effective until amended.
7
3-3 Reopener
In the event that either judicial action, legislative action, a levy election, or the petition process results in changes in the Constitution or current statutes changing the funding available to Lincoln Public Schools, either party may reopen this contract for the purposes of modifying the salary and fringe benefits during the term of this contract.
ARTICLE IV GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
4-1 Definitions
a.	A grievance is defined as an alleged violation or misapplication of any specific provision of this agreement. All such allegations shall be grievable through all steps of the grievance process as set out in this agreement.
b.	Claims of a violation of Board policy, State Statute, administrative directives or regulations which affect employees' work, shall be grieVable through Step 3 of the process described herein. Any such grievances which remain unresolved after Step 3 may be appealed to the Board of Education, which shall act in a timely fashion to arrange a hearing before the Board. Such claims are not arbitrable.
c.	Employee shall mean a member of the bargaining unit.
d.	Days shall mean working days exclusive of Saturday, Sunday, or official holidays during the contract year for certificated employees.
4-2 General Conditions
a.	■ Compliance - Employees of the school district will follow all verbal and written directives, even if they are in conflict with the provisions of applicable policy. Compliance with such directives will not in any way prejudice their right to file a grievance within the time limits contained herein, nor shall it affect the ultimate resolution of the grievance.
b.	No Reprisals - The Board shall use every means at its disposal to assure every employee the unobstructed use of this griev-
8
ance procedure without fear of reprisal or prejudice to his/her employment status.
c.	Time Limits - Since it is important that a grievance be processed as rapidly as possible, the number of days indicated at each level shall be considered as a maximum, and every effort should be made to expedite the process. The time limit specified may, however, be extended by mutual written agreement of the grievant and the employer.
If a grievance is filed which might not be finally resolved under the time limits set forth herein prior to the end of the school year, and which, if left unresolved until the beginning of the following school year could result in irreparable harm to a grievant, the time limit set forth herein will be reduced to the extent possible so that the grievance procedure may be concluded prior to the end of the school year, or as soon thereafter as is practicable.
d.	Failure to Meet Time Limits - The failure of the aggrieved party to proceed to the first or any subsequent step of this grievance procedure within the time limits set forth shall be deemed to mean the party elected not to file a grievance or has accepted the response previously rendered, and shall constitute a waiver 1 on any future appeal concerning the particular grievance. The failure of any administrator at any step to communicate his/ her decision to the aggrieved party within the specified time limit shall permit the aggrieved party to proceed to the next step.
e.	Communication - AH communications concerning the grievance, after the grievance is formaHy submitted, shall be in writing.
f.	Adjustments - No adjustment shall be made in any grievance which is in conflict with, or contrary to, the provisions on any policies, applicable laws, or administrative regulations.
g.	Forms - Forms for filing grievances shall be attached to this agreement as Appendix B.
h.	Meetings - All meetings and hearings under this procedure shall be conducted in private and shall include only such parties in interest and their designated or selected representatives heretofore referred to in this article.
9
i.	No Interference - Grievances should be processed in a manner which does not interfere with the employee's work and the normal operation of the schools.
j.	Representation Assistance - The employee may have a representative of the Association present at alt levels of the grievance procedure.
k.	Withdrawal of a Grievance - The grievant may withdraw the grievance at any step of the procedure.
4-3 Procedure
Step 1
If unsuccessful in an informal attempt with the immediate supervisor to resolve the dispute, the aggrieved party shall present the grievance in writing to the immediate supervisor within twenty (20) days of the occurrence. The grievance shall be written on the standard grievance form. The immediate supervisor, the aggrieved party, and the Association Representative shall meet in an attempt to settle the dispute within five (5) days. The immediate supervisor shall provide the aggrieved party with a written answer to the grievance within five (5) days after such meeting.
Step 2
If satisfactory settlement is not reached in Step 1, the aggrieved party must, within five (5) days of the receipt of the Step 1 response, appeal the grievance to the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources. The Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources, the Supervisor of Employee Relations, the aggrieved party, the aggrieved party's immediate supervisor, and the Association representative shall meet within five (5) days in an attempt to resolve the dispute. A written response must be given by the Assistant Superintendent within five (5) days after such a meeting.
Step 3
If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in Step 2, the aggrieved party must appeal the grievance to the Superintendent of Schools within five (5) days of receipt of the Step 2 response. The Superintendent shall conduct a hearing with the aggrieved party and the Association Representative within five (5) days of the receipt of the grievance. A written response will be given by the Superintendent within five (5) days following the hearing.
10


Step 4
If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in Step 3, the Association may, within ten (10) days after the response at Step 3, submit the grievance to arbitration by submitting to the Superintendent a joint request form for a list of seven (7) arbitrators to be supplied by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS), American Arbitration Association (AAA), or other mutually acceptable parties. Within ten (10) working days of receipt of said form, the Superintendent shall direct the request as a joint request to the FMCS unless another such service has been agreed to by the parties. Within ten (10) working days of receipt of the list of arbitrators, the Executive Director of the Association and the Superintendent or their Designated Representatives shall select an arbitrator by alternately crossing out names until only one (1) remains. Either party may elect to reject the first panel.
4-4 Arbitration
The arbitrator shall be limited in making the determination as follows:
a.	The arbitrator shall have no power or authority to add to, subtract from, change, modify, or alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement, or impose on any party hereto a limitation or obligation not explicitly provided for in this Agreement.
b.	The arbitrator shall have no power to change any practice, policy, or rule of the Board, nor to substitute the arbitrator's judgment for that of the Board as to the reasonableness of any such practice, policy, or rule.
c.	Thirty (30) calendar days after the receipt by the Superintendent and the Executive Director of the arbitrator's award, the decision of the arbitrator shall become final unless it has been specifically overturned by the Board of Education at an official meeting of the Board.
d.	All fees and expenses of the arbitrator and other hearing expenses, including stenographer fees, printed transcripts, and published briefs and decision, shall be borne equally by the parties. The grievant shall suffer no loss of pay or benefits which may be due for attendance at hearings'conducted during normal school hours. Substitute costs for up to two witnesses who are called by the LEA to testify at arbitration hearings conducted
11
during normal school hours shall be shared equally by the LEA and the Board if the witness is a member of the bargaining unit. All other expenses including salaries of any other witnesses called before the arbitrator shall be borne by the party calling such witnesses or incurring such expenses.
4-5 Group Grievance Procedures
If, in the judgment of the Association, a grievance affects a group, or class of employees, or rights of the Association as set forth in this Agreement, the Association may submit such grievance initially at Step 2.
4-6 Bypassing Step 1
If in the judgment of the employee, or the Association in the case of an Association or group grievance, the alleged grievance cannot be resolved at the building level due to the administrator not having the authority to resolve the grievance, the certificated employee may submit such grievance to the Supervisor of Employee Relations with a copy to the building principal. Within two (2) days of receipt of the grievance, the Supervisor of Employee Relations shall review whether the building administrator has the authority to resolve the alleged grievance and, will either remand the grievance to the building for a Step 1 hearing or shall forward the grievance to the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources for processing at the Step 2 level.
ARTICLE V
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
5-1 Paychecks
Certificated employees shall be paid in twelve (12) equal installments, which shall be gross salary divided equally except for adjustments m the salary schedule, horizontal advancement, changes in assignments or other events that may effect salary which may occur during the contract period. Employees shall have the option of receiving their remaining salary due for the contract year, with appropriate and necessary deductions, on the June payday. Application must be made to the District payroll office by the last teacher workday.
12

a. Advancement of Pay - New employees starting in August may elect an early payment up to $500, but not to exceed the amount earned. Application must be made before September 1. The payment shall be paid by the 15th of September, if the certificated employee's teaching certificate is on file in the Human Resources Office, with the remainder of the contracted salary divided into installments as set forth in 5-1.
When Paid - Pay dates for 2002-2003 are:		
2002 September 30 October 31 November 29 December 20	2003	
	January 31 February 28 March 31 April 30	May 30 June 30 July 31 August 29
and pay dates for 2003-2004 are:		
2003	2004	
September 30	January 30	May 28
October 31	February 27	June 30
November 26	March 31	July 30
December 19	April 30	August 31
5-2 Outside Employment	,
Employees are not required to notify the school district of outside employment, unless die teacher is also employed by another Nebraska school district.
5-3 Length of Contract
The certificated employee contract will be 188 days in 2002-2003 and 2003-2004. Work activities shall include teaching or preparing to teach, attending building or district wide in-service activities, staff meetings and conferencing with parents. The certificated staff workday shall be seven and one-half (7.5) hours per day. Thirty (30) minutes of this time shall be duty free lunch.
5-4 Certificated Staff Duty Days
The certificated employee contract will be 188 days in 2002-2003 and 2003-2004. For each contract year, ten (10) days will be designated as staff duty days. The ten (10) staff duty days shall be divided as follows:
13

Five (5) days are designated as professional duty. During professional duty days, certificated employees will be on duty working in buildings or engaged in professional duties at their discretion. They will be placed as follows in the calendar: two (2) full days and one (1) half day prior to the first student day of die year; one (1) full day during the semester break; one (1) full day following the last student day of the year; one (1) half day scheduled according to principal discretion.
Three (3) days are designated as building and/or district professional development. For the 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 school years, a total of 10.5 hours is available for building professional development and a total of 10.5 hours is available for district professional development.
Two (2) days will be used for parent conferencing or as compensatory days for conferencing with parents.
5-5 Inclement Weather Days
Certificated employees will hot be required to make up the first student day canceled due to inclement weather in each contract year. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent the District from scheduling sufficient instructional hours to meet the requirement of the Nebraska statutes.
5-6 Conferencing Days
In addition to the two (2) compensatory days described in 5-4 above, certificated employees shall receive up to three and one-half (3.5) hours per semester additional annual leave for time spent conferencing above the seven (7) hours per semester described in 5-4. Said time shall accumulate on a one-for-one basis above the seven hours. A maximum of three and one-half hours per semester (seven hours per year) may be earned in this manner.
5-7 Staff Development
The courses mandated for certificated employees will be provided without cost to certificated employees. Courses required by the State Department of Education for an endorsement are not considered mandated by the Lincoln Public Schools. The Staff Development Advisory Committee will be established with the LEA appointing
14
five to serve on this committee. The scope and function of this advisory committee shall be determined by the committee.
a.	Formal professional growth records will be maintained only as required by statutes for this purpose.
b.	Participants who wish to place a total record of their formal professional growth activities in their personnel file may do so.
c.	Part-time employees have the opportunity to use staff development courses credit when making horizontal advancement on the salary schedule. Professional growth points are not required for part-time staff employed less than 50 percent. Probationary employees who are half time or more must complete 30 professional growth points before tenure is granted.
d.	All staff development activities conducted within the district will be labeled "Required" or "Voluntary". Certificated employees shall be expected to attend those sessions labeled as "Required".
e.	Staff development which shall be mandated as a requirement for Lincoln Public Schools certificated employees shall be offered during the contract day and cannot be used for horizontal advancement on the salary schedule.
f.	Receipts will be issued to all employees at the time they pay LPS for staff development courses. Copies of the receipts will also be retained by LPS so records may be kept regarding the professional growth activities of the certificated staff.
5-8 Personnel Handbook
Changes in the Personnel Handbook shall not be made without advice from the Personnel Handbook Advisory Committee composed of two Association members appointed by the LEA President, and two by the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources.
Where sections of the Professional Agreement are printed in the Personnel Handbook, the wording in the Personnel Handbook will be the same as that stated in the Professional Agreement.
15
5-9 Covering Class or Combining Classes in the Absence of a Substitute
Certificated employees shall not be required to cover a class for another certificated employee when a substitute is authorized and available. In an emergency situation where no other alternative is available, however, a certificated employee having a planning period may be asked by his or her principal or equivalent to cover a class but this assignment shall be divided equally among all certificated employees.
1.	If the teacher gives up planning time, the compensation shall be paid at the rate of a workshop leader per class hour ($29.47 per hour in 2002-2003 and $31.22 per hour in 2003-2004}.
2.	In this emergency situation, if a teacher is asked to have additional students in their class due to a substitute not being available, the teacher shall be compensated:
•	By receiving workshop leader rate for one hour of coverage
•	When class-combining time exceeds one hour, the teacher shall instead receive a substitute teacher'spay for 3.75 hours.
•	When class combining time exceeds 3.75 hours, the teacher shall instead receive a substitute teacher's full day pay.
3.	If more than one teacher accepts additional students from the same class for which no substitute was available, they shall be compensated as follows:
•	By eadh teacher receiving workshop leader rate for one hour
of coverage
•	When class combining time exceeds one hour, the teachers shall instead receive a substitute teacher's pay for 3.75 hours . divided equally among the teachers who accept the students.
•	When class combining time exceeds 3.75 hours, the teachers shall instead receive a substitute teacher's full day pay ■ divided equally among the teachers who accept the students.
5-10 Certificated Employee Visitation
New certificated employees will be provided an opportunity away from school and without classroom responsibilities to visit or participate in inservice activities within the district with the prior approval of the building principal and the Human Resources office during the first school year. The visitation or participation will be limited to one day equal to the employee's F.T.E.
16

5-11 Notification of Extended Contract Other Than Extra-Standard
Any certificated employee, other than team leaders, coordinators and department chairs, serving with an extended daily rate contract shall continue to serve from year-to-year unless notified by the Human Resources Department by April 15. Extended daily contract pay shall be 1/188 of the certificated employee's current base pay for each day of extended contract duty. Additional certificated employees authorized to serve on extended contract shall be notified in writing by the tenth contract day of the school year.
5-12 Itinerant Assignment
The district will attempt to limit interschool travel for certificated employees who are assigned to more than one school building. Such certificated employees will be notified of any changes in their assignment at least five (5) working days in advance of the change. A thirty-minute duty free lunch period and fifty minutes of planning will be provided daily. A block of planning time of 50 minutes within the student day will be provided to itinerant employees. If a 50-minute block cannot be scheduled, blocks of not less than 25 minutes of planning time will be scheduled after conferring with the principal.
5-13 Staffing Resources
All employees shall have the opportunity to contribute to decisions regarding the utilization of staffing resources within their buildings as allocated.
5-14 Affirmative Action
The Board and the Association are committed to assuring equal educational opportunities for all students, to recognizing the rights and dignity of all persons, and to implementing policies which provide equal opportunity and ensure nondiscrimination in employment for all certificated employees. The Lincoln Public Schools shall actively recruit, hire and maintain professional minority staff.
5-15 Class Size Appeal Process
The following process is to be utilized by any certificated employee who, in his or her professional judgment, believes that the number of students or the composition of students assigned to that certificated employee to be educationally improper. The certificated em-17

- m : I > ►,	1 <v 'iC i5«- 5*	1WW
ployee confers with his or her principal regarding the problem. In
the event that the certificated employee and principal are unable to l agree upon a mutually acceptable solution, the certificated employee	H
and principal shall refer the matter to the Associate Superintendent 1 for Instruction. The Associate Superintendent shall respond in writ- ™ ing to the parties within seven (7) working days after the referral.
The decision of the Associate Superintendent is not grievable.
5-16 Professional Time for Educators
A.	Elementary Planning Time
1.	The District shall provide a minimum of two hundred and fifty (250) minutes per week of planning time for ail elementary certificated employees within the student day. Each week certificated employees shall receive daily blocks of planning time, three of which shall be at least fifty (50) minutes. Blocks of time less than twenty-five (25) minutes shall not be counted as planning time. The following will be scheduled within all buildings;
a.	Travel time between the back-to-back special classes *; and
b.	A minimum of 25-minute sections for each special class ♦
c.	Five (5) minutes of preparation/set up time between ■} fifty (50) minute sessions for special classes.*	j
’Special classes may include, but are not limited to, physical education, music, art, computer, creative expression, writing, science, media, etc.
2.	Principals, with staff participation, shall schedule a 45- i minute block of planning time per day immediately before or after the scheduled student day. Blocks of time less than 25 minutes are not counted as planning time.
3.	The School District shall provide four (4) calendar days of planning time for elementary certificated employees within the student calendar and independent of the other staff development, compensatory and non-contract days. These j days shall be allocated one per quarter for each certificated t employee as individual planning time.	;
4.	Every elementary certificated employee shall have the ’ above-stated planning time. In the event scheduling con-
18
flicts do not allow the employee to receive all such planning time, the employee shall receive prorated optional pay for the amount of time not provided. Kindergarten teachers by mutual agreement with their principal will schedule their planning time either in one (1) 50-minute block of time or two (2) 25-minute blocks of time per day.
B.	Middle School Level Planning Time
It is educationally sound and desirable that middle school buildings, in order to meet the needs of their students and faculty, be allowed to design middle school plan time delivery systems which may vary from building to building.
Regrouping of students within the student contact time is allowable for middle school buildings at the educators' discretion. Daily plan time may be adjusted at the educators' discretion, in order to accommodate the regrouping of students, provided that educators receive 500 minutes of plan time per week within the confines of the student day.
Home base, as designed by individual buildings, may be implemented during the regular student day. This will require prorated compensation at optional period pay should the home base delivery system result in a loss of plan time and/or an increase in the educators' standard number of students seen in a day. Acceptance of a home base assignment by a certificated employee shall be strictly voluntary.
C.	Secondary Planning Time
Planning time is provided for certificated employees with regularly scheduled classes. All secondary certificated employees with regularly scheduled classes shall have five (5) duty periods and two (2) plan periods.
D.	Counselor Office Time
All counselors shall have the same amount of office time per day as the planning time that is provided per day to other certificated employees at the same level during which they may work on individual tasks and planning needs without other assigned duties.
19
5-17 Night School Assignment
Night school assignments shall be voluntary. If no staff members volunteer for a night school assignment, they may be assigned by the principal. Certificated employees shall not be involuntarily assigned to a night school assignment two (2) years consecutively.
5-18 Guidelines for General Staff Meetings
Association and district leaders recognize that buildingmeetings are essential to the effective operation of our schools and that such meetings will, on occasion, extend beyond the regular work day hours. In response to an increasing interest in recent years on the part of educators in becoming involved in the decision-making process, the district has sought to provide for meaningful staff discussion and participation in formulating programs and procedures that directly affect them. Such involvement is, obviously, time consuming and cannot always be accommodated within the regular school days due to the need to protect educator/student contact time.
Both the Lincoln Education Association and the District would like to function in an environment in which participatory management is successful and where professional educators have increased choice about their attendance at meetings. To that end, (1) an agenda for all general staff meetings shall be developed and distributed to staff no later than the day before the meeting; (2) all general staff meeting agendas shall clearly indicate if the meeting is mandatory or optional for staff attendiance; and (3) the length of all general staff meetings shall be reasonable and take into account the time constraints that exist upon the staff, that general staff meetings occur when a staff has already put (or will be putting) in a full contract day with students, and reflect the fact that staff are already performing additional duties on a regular basis outside of the contract day.
Should any staff member(s) have recurring concerns about the number or length of mandatory general staff meetings in their building, not receive agendas on time or not have agendas which clearly indicate if meetings are optional or mandatory, or question the need for the meeting based upon its content, the staff member(s) shall document their concern. Documented concerns shall be shared with the building administrator. Should concerns about general staff meetings continue at the building, documented concerns along with steps which have already been taken at the building level shall be sent to both the Associate Superintendent for Instruction and the Lincoln
20
Education Association President. These two individuals shall review the documentation and conduct additional fact finding as necessary. In the event that the Associate Superintendent for Instruction and the Lincoln Education Association President agree there are concerns regarding a building's general staff meeting schedule, a conference between the principal and the Associate Superintendent for Instruction shall take place to address and correct the concerns. Should the Associate Superintendent for Instruction and the Lincoln Education Association President fail to agree regarding a staff member(s)'s concern, either the Associate Superintendent for Instruction or the Lincoln Education Association President may take the issue to the LEA-LPS Professional Committee (PROCOM) for a final decision.
The above outlined procedures do not apply to staff meetings that are called in response to an emergency situation.
5-19 Variance
The Lincoln Public Schools and the Lincoln Education Association recognize that there can be deterrents to school improvement. These deterrents may occur in Nebraska Department of Education Regulations, School Board Policy, Administrative Regulations or the Professional Agreement. In order for sites to overcome these deterrents, a Site Variance Process has been developed. The process is outlined in the Certificated Personnel Handbook. The site variance process may only be changed with the consent of the LPS: Board of Education and the Lincoln Education Association Board of Directors.
5-20 "Best Practices" of Student Discipline Handbook
PROCOM developed the "Best Practices" of Student Discipline Handbook to provide a practical tool for all staff to facilitate communication and to improve student discipline practices and procedures throughout the district. The Handbook is not meant to be comprehensive and it is expected that it will be updated; on a regular basis to include additional "best practices" that staff members develop. The Handbook is not meant to replace or supercede any existing LPS policies or State and Federal laws.
A copy of the Handbook shall be provided to all certificated new hires when they are employed by the District.
21
The Handbook maybe revised as needed. All revisions tn the Handbook shall be developed by a joint LPS/LEA Committee. Any changes in the Handbook shall be jointly agreed upon by the Lincoln Education Association Board of Directors and representatives of the Lincoln Public Schools.
ARTICLE VI
CHANGES IN PLACEMENT
6-1 General Information
a.	Voluntary transfers shall be defined as those initiated by the employee as documented by written application.
b.	Involuntary transfers shall be defined as those resulting from written administrative action.
c.	Surplusing shall be defined as the need for reassignment of staff due to enrollment decreases, budget limitations, or program changes; it is not a reduction in force where termination or contract amendment will occur.
d.	Reduction in Force (RIF) shall be defined as reduction in staff by termination or contract amendment due to enrollment decreases, budget limitations, or program changes in the event no vacancy exists in the district for which the certificated employee is qualified.
e.	Seniority shall be defined as the length of a certificated employee's continuous service in the bargaining unit from the most recent date of being placed on a continuous contract. Seniority shall begin on the first contract day on which the employee reports for duty.
(1)	Seniority shall accrue during authorized leaves of absence, and layoffs up to twenty-four (24) months or as otherwise mandated by law. Seniority shall not be interrupted by voluntary or involuntary transfers.
(2)	The district-wide seniority order for certificated employees will be determined by the start date of their continuing employment agreement. Certificated employees with identical reporting dates will have their placement order
22


determined by random computer placement within that report date. Once the order is established, no changes will occur except those allowed within the negotiated agreement.
(3)	The district-wide seniority list shall be prepared and made available in every school office, at the Lincoln Public Schools District Offices, and at the Association office on or about November 1. The validity of the seniority list shall become final and no longer subject to grievance following the first contract day in January.
(4)	Seniority shall end upon resignation, retirement, failure to return to work at the expiration of a leave of absence, failure to be recalled within twenty-four (24) months from the date of a layoff, or termination of employment for other reasons.
f.	Assignment shall be defined as:
(1)	school building for elementary certificated employees assigned to an elementary building;
(2)	subject area assignment for certificated employees in a middle school building;
(3)	department for certificated employees in a high school building;
(4)	positions within any assigned building requiring special endorsement(s) or qualifications; PROCOM will agree on positions requiring special qualifications for purposes of applying the provisions of surplusing and reduction in force. The list of positions will be distributed on or about November 1, Revisions may be made by PROCOM at any time;
(5)	duties assigned in the current year within any school, other location, or configuration of work sites for itinerant certificated employees;
(6)	a list of certificated staff and their assignment shall be prepared and made available in every school office, at the Lincoln Public Schools District Offices and at the Association
23
office on or about November 1. The accuracy of the assignment list shall become final and no longer subject to grievance following the first contract day in January.
6-2 Placement of Staff
a.	Consideration for filling vacancies shall be in the following order:
(1)	Voluntary transfers
(2)	Surplus/RIF
(3)	Leave of absence
(4)	Part-time
(5)	New hires
b.	Once there is assurance that positions exist for current certificated employees, part-time employees may be considered for an increase in their contractual time, and new staff may be considered for employment. Within areas of endorsement or qualification, current surplused certificated employees will be assigned before newly hired certificated employees.
c.	Within a hiring cycle of any given year, if qualified voluntary transfers apply for a position or similar multiple positions, a minimum of four (4) will be interviewed before a position is filled. Similar multiple positions are defined as positions at the same location, within the same high school department, same middle school department/team or same elementary grade/ team.
d.	If vacancies are available, Human Resources shall make at least three (3) interview offers or job offers to eligible surplused certificated employees. In the event a surplused person declines three (3) interview offers or job offers, Human Resources may place the employee in an appropriate position.
e.	During the transfer process, any position for which there are no in-district surplused certificated applicants may be filled by a new hire.
6-3 Surplusing
a.	Prior to declaration of a surplusing in an assignment, the Principal shall make a request for a volunteer to accept surplusing
24
status and/or the Principal may exercise his/her right to reassign current staff to an anticipated vacancy within that school. Declaration of a surplusing and reassignment within a building shall be documented in writing.
b.	In the event the need arises for surplusing certificated staff, district-wide seniority shall be the determining factor in reduction within an assignment.
c.	Certificated employees involved in surplusing will be encouraged to participate in the voluntary transfer process.
6-4 Voluntary Transfer
a.	An updated list of present vacancies and known vacancies for the following school year will be posted in all school buildings, at least every two weeks starting March 15. The posting of vacancies will continue up to 30 calendar days prior to the first contract day of the building with the vacancy. If all surplused teachers have not been assigned, posting shall continue past 30 days prior to the first contract day. The vacancy list shall include:
(1)	Position title
(2)	Building location
(3)	Status, i.e., permanent, temporary, part-time or itinerant
(4)	Qualifications: Courses to be taught and if elementary, grade and subject matter emphasis.
At all times, an updated list shall be available at the Human Resources Office.
b.	Posting: If posted, no vacancy shall be permanently filled within five (5) working days of the date of posting. ,
c.	Procedures: Every employee on continuing contract shall have the right to apply for any vacancy for which he/she is certificated and endorsed by contacting the Human Resources Office within the five (5) day posting period. All certificated employees applying for a voluntary transfer shall, after contacting the Human Resources Department, be allowed to submit a letter of
25
application and resume to the principal or supervisor where the vacancy exists. All applicants shall receive written notification within five (5) days from the principal indicating receipt of their application tor the position.
The Human Resources Department will notify all applicants, in writing, within ten (10) days of the closing date for the application when the screening process and subsequent interviewing will occur.
Applicants selected for an interview will be notified by the Human Resources Department. Other applicants will be notified, in writing, by the Human Resources Department within ten (10) days that they have not been selected for an interview. Interviewees not selected for the position will be notified by Human Resources within ten (10) days from the time the position has been filled.
d.	Certificated employees exchange shall be defined as the exchange of assignments between two staff members in different buildings with the approval of both principals. Such exchange shall be for a one (1) year trial. At the end of one (1) year, a request for discontinuation of the exchange by any of the af-' fected teachers or principals will be honored. An exchange extended beyond one (1) year shall become permanent.
6-5 Reduction In Force
a.	Bumping Procedures - In the event no vacancy exists for the certificated employee who is subject to reduction in force, the certificated employee may exercise system-wide seniority to bump the certificated employee with the least amount of system-wide seniority in the school system in the assignment in ■ ’which the certificated employee has been teaching. If no such less senior certificated employee exists, he/she may bump the least senior certificated employee to which he/she is senior in another field or teaching area for which he/she is certificated and endorsed or where certification and endorsement is not applicable, by reason of college credits in the teaching area. Certificated employees may not bump to administrative positions.
b.	Reduction in Force - When it is no longer possible for any certificated employee who is subject to reduction in force to bump another certificated employee, the certificated employee will be laid off according to Nebraska School Law.
26
a letter to that effect. Such certificated employee shall have preferred rights to reemployment for a period of twenty-four (24) months commencing at the end of the contract year and the employee shall be recalled on the basis of length of service to the school district, to any position for which the certificated employee is qualified by endorsement or college preparation to teach. The certificated employee shall, upon reappointment, retain any benefits which had accrued to said certificated employee prior to termination or contract amendment, but such leave of absence shall not be considered as time of employment by the district. A certificated employee under contract to another education institution may waive recall but such waiver shall not deprive the certificated employee of the certificated employee's right to subsequent recall.
ARTICLE VII PROFESSIONAL APPRAISAL
7-1 Professional appraisal is the systematic formal summative review instrument recommended by a joint committee made up of five persons appointed by the Board of Education and five persons appointed by the Lincoln Education Association. Said committee shall be called the Teacher Appraisal Joint Committee.
7-2 Any proposed changes in the summative review instrument will be recommended by the Teacher Appraisal Joint Committee and shall be jointly agreed upon by the Lincoln Education Association Board and the Lincoln Public Schools Board.
7-3 The appraisal process and summative review instrument shall be consistent with the Board policy on appraisal.
7-4 a. All certificated employees will be appraised at least every three years. On or about October 1 of each year, all certificated employees who are to be appraised shall be informed by their appraiser of the instrument to be used, and the administrative procedures which will be followed.
b.	The immediate supervisor shall be the principal. In the case of itinerant or cluster assignments, the immediate supervisor shall be designated by the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources.
c.	The written appraisal will be confidential and will be reviewed in private by the appraiser and the certificated employee.
27

d.	Written appraisals shall be based on information gathered openly during formal or informal observations and other data collected concerning criteria identified in the summative review instrument.
e.	All formal classroom observations shall be conducted with full knowledge of the certificated employee with at least one day's advance notice.
f.	The certificated employee may submit a written statement and/ or rebuttal which must be attached to all file copies of the appraisal.
g.	The certificated employee and the appraiser shall sign the appraisal form. The signature of the certificated employee does not indicate approval of the appraisal but only that the certificated employee has reviewed and received a copy of the document.
ARTICLE VIII LEAVES FROM DUTY
8-1 Selection of Annual Leave Options
This agreement gives employees the opportunity to choose between two annual leave plans. Option A described in section A below is the same language found in the 1993-95 Professional Agreement. Option B is a new plan described in section B below.
Within the first thirty (30) days of employment, new certificated employees shall choose between annual leave options A and B described below. Once the choice of the annual leave option has been made, the employee may not change options except during the leave option window as outlined below.
The leave option window was opened for all certificated employees during the first thirty days of the 1995-96 contract year. The leave option window was reopened for all certificated employees at the beginning of the 1998-99 contract year. It is the intent of this contract that the leave option window will be opened every three years. For purposes of moving from Option A to Option B, this window will be open the first 30 contract days of each year.
28
If neither option has been selected by a new certificated employee at the end of the thirty-day leave option window, said employee shall be considered an Option A employee.
For purposes of reimbursement at time of employee separation from the school district, days accumulated under the respective options (Option A or Option B) shall remain that type of day. Current employees who chose Option B during the 1995-96 leave option window converted all existing accumulated leave to Option B days. The ability to convert all accumulated leave to Option B days was a one time opportunity.
A. Fourteen Day Annual Leave Flan (Option A)
Full-time certificated employees shall receive fourteen (14) days or 98 hours of paid annual leave each year cumulative to the number of days/hours in the certificated employee's contract. Part-time employees receive a prorated amount.
1.	Annual leave must be usedfor illness or medical disability during the course of the contract. Absence due to personal injury or accident, absence due to illness of family members residing in the same home and also children, parents, parents-in-law, and siblings not residing in the same home, and absence due to the quarantine laws of the State are interpreted as eligible for annual leave. In addition, an employee who is temporarily disabled from a medical standpoint by reason of pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and child delivery is within this provision for the period of such medical disability. Annual leave is classified as current or accumulative. ■
2.	Two (2) annual leave days may be used for the purpose of attending to emergencies pertaining to personal or legal matters. Twenty-four hour notice, when possible, shall be given by the certificated employee to the immediate supervisor. Request for use of two annual leave days: for emergencies will be made to the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources in writing, explaining the reason for the absence. The Assistant Superintendent will determine if the absence qualifies for leave. The following items are typical of approved requests for emergency use of annual leave.
29

a.	Transactions of serious personal business which cannot be arranged for at a time other than school hours. (Seeking, preparing for, or working at other employment is excluded.)
b.	Legal arrangements which are related to the immediate family of the employee.
c.	Compliance with a court subpoena,
d.	Special examinations administered by a university for
an advanced degree.
e.	Extension of bereavement leave.
f.	Emergencies which are beyond the control of the employee.
g.	Absences of an employee resulting from mandatory pre-induction physical examination requested by the Selective Service System, the National Guard, or the Military Reserve.
h.	Religious observances which cannot be fulfilled prior
to or after the normal school day schedule,
i.	The death of a friend, relative or acquaintance, if not covered by bereavement leave.
j.	Attendance at the graduation or wedding of the employee or members of the employee's immediate family.
k.	Extension of sick leave when it becomes exhausted.
1.	Care for family illness.
3.	Two (2) annual leave days, subject to the availability of a substitute as verified by Human Resources, may be used as special leave days at the certificated employee's discretion without explanation. With a minimum of two (2) weeks advance notice, the special leave days may be used directly or in conjunction with unpaid leave, to extend absences before or after holidays or non-contract days. In these in-
30
stances, special leave day(s) will be granted on a first coi first served basis and no more than 5% (fractions round up) of a building level certificated staff needing a substih may use the special leave day(s). Annual leave as spec leave may not be used in the first ten (10) nor the last fifte (15) student contact days of the school year unless the rc son for use is within the criteria indicated in paragraph above.
4.	Certificated employees who separate from the Lincoln Pu lie Schools following twenty (20) years of employment as certificated employee will receive one dollar ($1.00) per hoi for each hour of accumulated annual leave. The accumi lated annual leave will be calculated as of June 30 of tl contract year in which employment is discontinued.
B.	Eleven Day Annual Leave Plan (Option B)
Full-time certificated employees shall receive eleven (11) day (77 hours) of paid annual leave each year. Accumulation of un used annual leave shall be unlimited. Part-time employees re ceive a prorated amount Annual leave may be used as sick leave discretionary leave or prearranged leave. When employees hav< used all eleven (11) current leave days, they may use accumu lated leave as sick leave. In order for certificated employees tc have used all eleven (11) current leave days for the purposes oi dipping into accumulated leave, the eleven days must have actually been utilized and an absence taken place.
1.	Annual and accumulated annual leave may be used as sick leave. Sick leave shall mean absence due to personal illness, injury or accident, absence due to illness of family members residing in the same home and also children, parents, parents-in-law and siblings not residing in the same home, and absence due to quarantine laws of the State. In addition, an employee who is temporarily disabled from a medical standpoint by reason of pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and child delivery is within this provision for the period of such medical disability. Sick leave shall not be subject to approval by the building super-visor/principal.
2.	Annual leave may be used as discretionary days. Use shall be at the discretion of the employee. The employee shall not be required to provide reason for the leave. There shall
31
be no restrictions on the use of leave beyond the established procedures for arranging for absences. Leave shall be recorded and available for use on an hourly basis.
3.	Annual leave may be used for prearranged days. In the event an employee wishes to prearrange an absence for any reason other than medical reasons, the days shall be available subject to availability of substitutes and shall be granted on a first come first served basis. No more than five (5) percent (fractions rounded up) of building level certificated staff needing a substitute may use prearranged days on a given day. Prearranged annual leave shall not be used for the first ten (10) nor the last fifteen (15) student contact days of the school year. Human Resources shall have the authority to authorize use of prearranged annual leave for reasons other than illness during this period.
4.	Certificated employees who separate from the Lincoln Public Schools following ten (10) years of employment as a certificated employee will receive six dollars ($6.00) per hour for each hour of accumulated annual leave. The accumulated annual leave will be calculated as of June 30 of the contract year in which employment is discontinued.
5,	At the end of the 1997-98 contract and subsequent years, a certificated employee may sell up to one half of the employee's accumulated leave at the current value per hour contained in 8-1 (B) (4) above. The certificated employee may either sell back some or all of the days, or allow them to accumulate at the employee's discretion. The ten-year service requirement in 8-1 (B) (4) is not applicable to this provision.
6.	When a certificated employee's annual leave has all been used, accumulated leave may be used for either sick leave or the purpose of attending to emergencies pertaining to personal or legal matters. Twenty-four hour notice, when possible, shall be given by the certificated employee to the immediate supervisor. Request for use of annual leave for an emergency shall be made to the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources in writing, explaining the reason for the absence- The Assistant Superintendent will determine if the absence qualifies for leave. The items typical of approved requests are listed in 8-1 (A) (2) above.
32

C.	Additional Leave Guidelines Applying to All Certificated Employees for Options A or B
The following guidelines apply to all certificated employees regardless of which annual leave option they have chosen.
1.	Certificated employees on continuing contract who have exhausted their accumulated leave may borrow up to eleven (11) days of the next year's allotment. Said leave may only be used for sick leave as defined in section 8-1 (B) (1) above. If the certificated employee resigns before earning the borrowed days from the succeeding year, the certificated employee will have his/her pay reduced at the daily rate of pay before final payment is made.„ShouId illness, however, be the reason leading to resignation or termination of the certificated employee, the certificated employee shall not be required to pay back the borrowed days.
2.	Worker's compensation salary benefits do not begin until seven (7) calendar days after the date of injury. Employees who sustain a compensable work related injury will not be docked for the work days that fall within that seven (7) calendar days. In addition, employees will not be docked for time spent receiving medical treatment related to the injury. If an employee is disabled beyond six (6) weeks, worker's compensation benefits will be paid-for the first seven (7) days. At that time, the amount paid under worker's compensation will be deducted from the payroll check.
3.	If the disability occurs during non-contract days, the employee will not receive leave pay, since no contract days were lost as a result of the disability. If the disability continues into the next contract year, annual and accumulated leave may be used.
4.	If the employee requests and is granted unpaid leave, and thereafter becomes physically disabled as determined medically, annual leave pay will not be provided.
5.	If a member of the immediate family is recommended for treatment through the Employee Assistance Program counselor, the employee may use accumulated leave for the duration of the prescribed treatment, but not to exceed fifteen (15) working days per incident.
33

6.	Any employee anticipating a long-term disability is encouraged to notify the immediate supervisor and/or the Human Resources Office to assist the District in staff replacement.
8-2 Adoption Leave
At the time of adoption, an employee who adopts a child shall be allowed to use a maximum of twenty (20) days of either accumulated or sub-deduct leave. The accumulated and sub-deduct leave may be used in any combination at the employee's discretion.
8-3 Civic Leave
An employee appointed to a city, county, or state committee, board or commission, or who is serving as an officer or on a board, excluding advisory or adjunct, in a community organization, may request civic leave with pay on forms provided by the Human Resources Department. Such leave will normally be allowed by the Human Resources Department on the approval of the Board providing the time involved does not exceed a total of two (2) work days or fourteen (14) hours per month.
8-4 Jury Duty
Employees of the Lincoln Public School District are encouraged to fulfill their citizenship obligation of jury duty. Their salary will continue during time spent in jury service.
If an employee, upon reporting for jury duty in the morning, learns that he/she is dismissed from jury duty for the remainder of the day, he/she is to report to duty at his/her school and to resume duties or do additional building work as assigned for the balance of the day. When entirely dismissed from jury duty, the employee is directed to report for duty at school.
8-5 Sabbatical Leave
Employees granted sabbatical leave shall receive compensation equal to 50% of his/her current scheduled salary. If the employee participates in the district health insurance program and elects to continue such insurance while on leave, the employee shall receive the district contribution toward the premium as defined in 12-2 (b). Employees become eligible to apply for sabbatical leave after they have
34
served full time in the Lincoln Public Schools for seven (7) consecutive years without a period of sabbatical leave and agree to return for at least five (5) years upon the completion of their leave.
An employee returning from sabbatical leave shall be assured of the following:
a.	The right to return to their former position.
b.	The option of transferring to another assignment.
c.	If affected by surplus, the teacher shall be reassigned according to Article VI of the Negotiated Agreement.
d.	Such employee will receive credit towards salary increment, insurance, Lincoln Public Schools retirement benefits, and the early retirement incentive plan as if the employee has remained in his/her present position. The employee will not receive district paid credit during the leave toward State retirement benefits.
8-6 Bereavement Leave
A total of not more than five (5) consecutive work days on full pay is allowed each employee for absence in case of death in the immediate family, defined as spouse, children, mother, father, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, sister, grandchildren, son-in-law and daughter-in-law, or person in the same home as part of the family for the purpose of attending the funeral or attending to matters related to the death. A total of not more than three (3) consecutive workdays on full pay is allowed for each employee for absence in case of death of other members of the family, defined as brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparent, aunt, uncle, niece or nephews for the purpose of attending the funeral or attending to matters related to the death.
Bereavement leave is not limited to five or three days respectively in one year, but covers each death in the immediate family which occurs during the year.
An employee shall be excused, without loss of pay, to attend funeral services of relatives and/or friends other than those listed above provided no substitute is required; If, however, a substitute must be provided, the employee will be required to pay the cost of substitute only.
35
8-7 Assault and/or Battery Leave
Any employee missing contract days due to injury as the result of physical assault while within the scope of his /her employment with the Lincoln Public Schools shall not have those days charged against accumulated sick leave days.
After five (5) work days, continued absence is authorized only upon recommendation of the employee's personal physician.
a. The term "assault" and "battery" shall be defined for purposes of this section as an assault and battery inflicted within the scope of the individual's employment. Assault is defined as the threat or use of force on another that causes that person to have a reasonable apprehension of imminent harmful or offensive contact; the act of putting another person in reasonable fear or apprehension of an immediate battery by means of an act amounting to an attempt or threat to commit a battery. Battery is defined as the application of force to another, resulting in harmful or offensive contact.
In the event that an employee of the Lincoln Public Schools should be subject to an assault and/or battery while within the scope of his/her employment with the Lincoln Public Schools, the employee should take the following action:
(1)	The employee should immediately notify the Lincoln Police Department of the alleged assault or battery.
(2)	The employee should notify the Building Principal or in the absence of the Building Principal, the Assistant Principal of the alleged assault or battery.
(3)	The standard procedures for reporting accidents shall thereafter be followed.
(4)	If the employee is not satisfied that the prosecuting offi-
cials are taking appropriate action with regard to the alleged incident, the employee may report the same to the Office of Business Affairs. In addition, if the employee is a member of the LEA, the employee should advise the Executive Director of fire LEA of the situation. The Office of Business Affairs and, if applicable, the Executive Director of the LEA should attempt to ascertain the status
36
8-8
8-9
of any criminal proceedings and coordinate their efforts to obtain appropriate action by the prosecuting officials.
(5)	In the event that the employee wishes to take any civil action to recover his/her damages against the perpetrator of the assault or battery, this is a private legal proceeding; therefore, the employee will need to obtain his / her own legal counsel to assist the employee in presentation of such claims.
(6)	Employees should recognize that the determination of what criminal proceedings will be commenced against the perpetrator of an assault or battery is the function and responsibility of either the Legal Department of the City of Lincoln or the County Attorney of Lancaster County. Neither the Board of Education nor the LEAhave any standing to actually commence any such proceedings. The Board of Education and, if applicable, the LEA will, however, endeavor to assist the employee in bringing relevant information to the attention of the appropriate prosecuting officials.
Exchange Teachers
Any employee accepted as an exchange teacher under Public Law 87-256 (The Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961) shall be granted a paid leave of absence. This certificated employee shall retain all tenure and other employment rights with prior position and assignment guaranteed for the subsequent year upon return to the Lincoln Public Schools. A full increment shall be granted a certificated employee on exchange for each year of exchange service. Such service shall not interrupt the employee's seniority. The employee must receive Board approval prior to accepting exchange teaching position.
Professional Leave
Professional leave may be granted for attendance at meetings or conferences which are directly related to the employee's major academic areas of responsibility. The Request for Leave form must show written approval of the principal, department chairperson and/or the subject matter consultant. When assigned or requested by the District, expenses will be paid according to the District's expense account policies.
37
Professional leave will be granted to a teacher subpoenaed due to the teacher's professional responsibilities as an employee of the Lincoln Public Schools.
8-10 Unpaid Leaves
When no other leave may be utilized, an employee may make application for an unpaid leave. Deduction in compensation for such absence shall be made.
a.	An unpaid leave of absence will not be granted beyond the balance of the school year plus one additional year. Upon application of the certificated employee, a leave maybe specifically extended by the Board beyond said period of time. Such leave of absence will specify the date of return to duty. During periods of such leave, the employee shall retain all provisions as outlined below.
(1)	The right to return to the former position. In the event that
the district is anticipating a surplus/RIF situation, persons returning from a one-year leave of absence will be placed in the employee pool at the building they came from, prior to surplus / RIF procedures being applied.
(2)	If the employee extends the leave beyond one year, the employee shall have waived the right to return to his /her former position, and shall be considered for placement after surplused certificated employees. The employee will be placed on furlough status if no vacancy exists. Persons returning from multiple year leaves of absence will be placed in the district-wide transfer surplus pool prior to , RIF based upon seniority. They will be placed or RIFed according to the reduction in force language in Article VI.
(3)	Certificated employees on unpaid leave shall have the opportunity to continue health and dental coverage, as governed by COBRA regulations and the underwriting guidelines of the policies. District life insurance availability is limited to one year. The district death benefit plan is not available during unpaid leave unless the leave is for health reasons.
(4)	The right to salary advancement and benefits which had been earned prior to the beginning of the leave period.
38
(5)	In the event an employee on approved unpaid leave employed in another school district during said leave, such experience would be recognized for purposes <
■ placement of new hires, said employee shall have sue experience credited to them consistent with the Placemer of New Hires Chart (Appendix A) for the current yea should they return to active service with LPS. Nothing ii this language shall be construed to deny an employe salary advancement and benefits earned under'item (3) o this section.
b.	Alternative Employment - A certificated employee who has five consecutive years of service may be granted a leave of absence for up to one year to accept employment elsewhere provided that supportive recommendations be secured from the immediate supervisor, consultant and the Human Resources Office and if a suitable one-year replacement can be found.
c.	Legislative Leave - The employee shall notify the Board in writing of his/her name for seeking public office.
(1)	If the employee wishes to campaign during working hours, a personal leave may be requested.
(2)	An employee who is elected to any subdivision of Government shall be entitled to an unpaid leave of absence for ffie length of term of office.
d.	Family Leave - Leave shall be granted because of pregnancy, childbirth, child rearing, adoption, caring for a foster child, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and recovery therefrom. Additionally, leave shall be granted for the purpose of caring for parents or attending to family business requiring extended absence from work,
8-11 Association Leave
The Lincoln Board of Education agrees to provide the Association with sixty (60) days of paid Association leave. Additional association days may be purchased on the basis of substitute deduction. The Association leave shall be only for the propose of professional association work at the local, state or national level and all such days shall require the authorization of the Association President. Up to a full time reduction for the President or another certificated
employee may be utilized by the Association by payment to the district of an amount equal to MA Step A on the salary schedule or at the actual level of education and experience if less than the monetary value of MA Step A.
8-12 Catastrophic Illness Leave
Employees who suffer a catastrophic illness, or whose spouse suffers a catastrophic illness during the course of a contract year and whose available annual and accumulated leave has been exhausted .shall be eligible for sub-deduct leave for the remainder of the contract year.
8-13 Part-Time Leave
Full-time certificated tenured employees who request part-time leave of absence shall have the right to return to their former full-time position if the leave does not extend beyond one year. If the leave is extended beyond one year, the district will make a reasonable attempt to place the employee in a full-time assignment when requested to do so.
8-14 Voluntary Leave Transfer for Catastrophic Illness
The Voluntary Leave Transfer gives certificated staff the opportunity to help fellow employees by donating annual leave to employees faced with serious personal or family medical conditions that require their absence from duty for a prolonged period of time.
In order to be a leave recipient an employee must:
a.	Be a member of the LEA bargaining unit.
b.	Exhaust all other types of available leave with the exception of Catastrophic Illness Leave (see 8-12).
c.	Provide the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources, or their designee, with written confirmation from a physician on the approved LPS form that the employee or immediate family member is suffering from a medical condition requiring the employee be absent from work. For purposes of this program, immediate family shall be defined as family members residing in the same home as well as children, parents, parents-in-law and siblings not residing in the same home.
40
After the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources has approved an employee as a leave recipient, certificated staff may either donate Option A annual sick leave, emergency leave or special leave and Option B annual leave to the leave account of the recipient. (It should be noted that Federal law prohibits the donation of accumulated leave for this purpose.) Said donation shall be submitted in writing on the form provided by the Human Resources Office for this purpose.
Approved leave recipients may solicit leave donation from within their own building and/or use District or Association communication channels. In order to protect employee privacy, no solicitation of leave shall be undertaken without their prior approval.
Leave shall be requested in a block of time not greater than the remainder of the current school year. The donation shall be made in whole day increments and submitted in writing on the form designated by Human Resources. Leave shall be transferred in the order received and any leave remaining shall be returned to the original contributor.
Staff may make additional leave transfer requests if the illness extends beyond the original anticipated date. All leave transfer donations shall be treated as confidential.
Leave may be transferred to and from an employee in another employee group, if that group has a similar leave transfer for catastrophic illness and that group agrees to a reciprocating arrangement with the Association.
ARTICLE IX COMPENSATION
The basic salary schedules, for 2002-2003 and 2003-2004, included in the Agreement as Appendix A, shall be implemented under the following terms:
9-1 Effective Date of Salary Schedule
The schedule shall become effective on the date the certificated employee reports for the new school year and all payments of wages on or after this date shall be paid according to schedule.
41
9-2 Salary Lane Adjustments
A.	Lane Adjustments
Lane adjustments may be made at any time during the contract year. Certificated employees shall make application on an intent form provided by Human Resources. Salary adjustment resulting from horizontal movement shall be effective on the contract day that all necessary documentation is received by the Human Resources Office and will appear in the certificated employee's first appropriate paycheck following receipt of the documentation (in September if received during the summer). Necessary documentationshallinclude:l)thecompleted application form, 2) official original graduate transcript (s) and/or 3) staff development transcripts from Lincoln Public Schools.
1.	Doctoral Lane - Certificated employees will be placed on the doctoral lane of the certificated employee's salary schedule when a doctorate degree is granted from a college of education or is in the employee's instructional field or a related field.
2.	Horizontal Advancement Credit - An hour of credit shall be i defined as one hour of earned graduate study, or, if ap-.	proved by the administration in advance, as one hour of
upper-division undergraduate study in the certificated employee's major area or field. Applicants may use upper division courses for horizontal movement if approved by the principal, consultant and Human Resources in advance of the applicant enrolling in the coursework. When a degree . is conferred, the hours earned in excess of degree requirements shall be applied to the next salary lane. Effective October 15,1984, however, only graduate hours conferred after the master degree will apply to the MA+18, MA+36 and Ph.D.
3.	The MA+18 lane shall be effective for 1982-83. Employees who obtain the BA+72 status prior to January 15,1983, shall be permitted to remain on said lane. Employees who obtain a BA+72 after January 15,1984, shall not be placed on said lane of the salary schedule.
B.	Step Adjustments
1.	Vertical Advancement on Schedule - All certified employees employed under the 2001-2002 contract will move one vertical step, where steps exist, for the 2002-2003 school year. All
42
certified employees employed move one vertical step, where t year.
9-3 Staff Development Hours
Staff development courses will be the salary schedule in the same mi maximum of 30 hours of credit, ext for courses taken more than ten (10 proposed for salary advancement, toward salary schedule advanceme a contracted certificated employee < the time the course was taken. Hot summer immediately preceding th certificated employee of Lincoln P horizontal advancement. Staff devel zontal movement only if the applic to Lincoln Public Schools at the tin course. Once a certificated employ advancement using staff developm be considered permanent as if the 1 hours have been used they cannot I gree is conferred.
9-4 Prior Acceptable Experience
a.	Salary Lane Placement - New! with no prior teaching experienc of the appropriate salary lane.
b.	New hires with previous teachin the same level on the salary schei the same amount of continuous ence up to Level 10 on the BA Lai and up to Level 17 for 2002-2003 c BA+36/MA, MA+18, MA+36 a Appendix A.
These charts shall be effective on first hired by Lincoln Public Scho< in employment, for the 2002-201 respectively, and for succeeding i employees hired by LPS at the e shall be in accord with the LPS De
43

9-5
document "SALSCHED/TXTBACHI09/27/90/' entitled, "Initial Placement on Salary Schedule," which placement shall be binding and effective as to all said certificated teachers for the 1991-92 school year and thereafter and for all years prior thereto.
c.	Vocational certification experience will be permanently allowed
on the certificated employee salary schedule for employees who teach one or more classes which are eligible for state vocational reimbursement. This experience will be allowed as follows: 1 year experience -business and office education distributive education; home economics related occupations (HERO), trades and industrial education; 2 years experience - agricultural education, and health-related occupation. Effective 1989-90, new hires will not be eligible.
Early Retirement Incentive Plan
This early retirement incentive shall be available to certificated staff and shall be reviewed on an annual basis. The early retirement incentive plan shall be available on the certificated employee's 55th birthday and succeeding years as hereafter defined. An employee must have completed ten (10) years of credited service to the Lincoln Public Schools in order to be eligible for the early retirement incentive plan (ERIP).
Credited service shall mean employment as a certificated employee of the Lincoln Public Schools, except that authorized leaves of absence without compensation shall be excluded. Full and partial years of credited service shall be added together to calculate a total amount of credited service. A partial year shall not be counted unless there are sufficient partial years to total a full year. Employees shall not be eligible for this plan should they be on unpaid leave in excess of one year immediately prior to electing benefits except that unpaid leave for health reasons which has been preceded by sick leave during which the employees have utilized all sick leave to which they were entitled shall not prevent eligibility.
Employees shall no longer be eligible for benefits under this plan in the contract year succeeding the contract year in which they are first eligible for reduced Social Security Retirement insurance benefits based upon the individual employee's own Social Security account.
44
a.	Benefits:
The benefit amount shall be calculated based on total years of credited service to Lincoln Public Schools accrued at the age of 55. Said benefit shall be calculated at age 55 and shall remain constant during the entire eligibility period. No additional credited years of service shall be accumulated after age 55.
1.	The first ten (10) years of credited service shall be valued at $200 per year.
2.	The next ten (10) years of credited service shall be valued at $400 per year.
3.	All additional years of credited service shall be valued at $800 per year.
4.	The benefit shall be the total value accumulated by adding 1,2, and 3 above.
b.	One-year eligibility option for current staff who were already eligible for reduced social security benefits.
In the 1995-96 contract year, all certificated employees who had completed ten (10) years of credited service to Lincoln Public Schools and were eligible for reduced social security insurance benefits based upon their individual account were eligible for benefits under this plan. Said benefits were calculated based upon the employee's accumulated years of service at age 55. This eligibility option was available during file 1995-96 school year only.
c.	Payment:
Certificated employees retiring under this section will be paid the amount due under this plan in one or two payments, on September 15 and/or January 15 of the following year.
d.	Application:
A certificated employee desiring to receive the benefits of this plan should notify the Human Resources Office by April 15 of the year of retirement. Retirement shall be effective as of July 1 of that year.
45
e.	Source of Funds:
The school district shall pay the entire cost of this plan.
f.	Administration:
This plan shall be administered by the Board of Education.
g.	Health Insurance:
Certificated employees retiring under the provisions of this plan shall have the opportunity to continue health coverage, as governed by COBRA regulations and the underwriting guidelines of the policies.
h.	Changes in Regulations or United States Supreme Court Opinion:
In the event the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission (EEOC), adopts regulations or the United States Supreme Court issues an opinion which invalidates this early retirement incentive plan (ERIP) as outlined in this section, the plan shall be null and void. Adoption of said regulations shall cause the parties to reopen negotiations in an attempt to bring the ERIP into compli-■ ance.
9-6	? SummerSchool
Pay for summer school services shall be on the basis of the certifi-. ca ted employee's extended contract with each period (hour) equal to 1 /6 of their daily rate of pay.
9-7 Senior Associate Teachers
Beginning with the school year 1986-87, no additional Senior Associate Teachers shall be designated by the District. Certified teachers who have attained the age of 55 may voluntarily request a change from full-time regular teaching to a part-time status as a Senior Associate Teacher.
A teacher who has been granted status as a Senior Associate Teacher may request a return to regular teaching status. Such request shall not be granted until the teacher has completed two full years of senior associate status. A request to return to regular teaching duties
46
shall be made in writing to the principal of the school to which the Senior Associate Teacher has been assigned by at least the end of the first semester of the year preceding the time at which the change of status would commence. The request shall be reviewed and evaluated by a committee which shall consist of the principal of the school to which the teacher is assigned and two (2) other qualified administrators. The principal and committee so appointed shall be provided an opportunity to evaluate the ability of the Senior Associate Teacher to return to regular teaching status and may as a part of such evaluation process require the Senior Associate Teacher to participate in teaching activities. For evaluation purposes, Senior Associate Teachers will be assigned to a previous level of teaching.
The Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources will select the three-person evaluation committee. The committee will use the applicable portions of the standard teacher appraisal instrument, and this instrument will be provided to the applicant prior to the evaluation. The applicant will be provided feedback after each observation.
On or before May 1st, the committee shall make its written recommendations to the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources. The Senior Associate Teacher shall be furnished a copy of such recommendation. The committee's written assessment will be based upon actual observation, appraisal and feedback. The Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources shall make a written determination by May 15. The recommendation of the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources will be consistent with the committee's recommendation. In the event the teacher disagrees with the determination of the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources, the teacher may appeal through the grievance procedure commencing with the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources.	'
All Senior Associate Teachers will receive an annual salary of $23,464 in 2002-2003 and $25,028 in 2003-2004. Each employee will, work 4 hours per day, for 188 days which is considered the extent1 of their workload. The remaining percentage of time for each employee is declared as personal leave, which protects tenure.
The assignment of duties shall be determined by the receiving school in concert with the department or grade level needs.Senior Associate Teachers will become apart of a teaching team or department, and will assume a subordinate role in supporting the instructional program.
47
This Section concerning Senior Associate Teachers shall be removed from this agreement upon the conclusion of employment of the last Senior Associate Teacher with the Lincoln Public Schools.
9-8 Part-time Certificated Employees
Part-time certificated employees shall be paid their daily rate of pay based upon the number of teaching periods/time assigned. The employee's F.T.E. shall establish the appropriate minutes of prorated planning time. If employees are scheduled with a gap of time in their schedule of more than 50 minutes at the elementary level or more than one period plus passing time at the secondary level a maximum of one hour of pay will be allowed at their per diem hourly rate. Payment of this sum will not increase the employee's full-time equivalency as determined by the number of assigned class periods per day.
9-9	Teacher Relocation
Teachers move from one classroom to another for a variety of reasons. Under some circumstances, teachers have been paid for the non-contraCt time they have spent packing, moving, and unpacking. Teachers will continue to be paid for non-contract time for the following:
1.	Moving because of construction, renovation, or asbestos removal
2.	Moving into a new facility
The following options are available and should be selected by teachers and/or teams/departments based on the specific needs of the building:
1.	They can pack, move and unpack their classroom teaching supplies and materials for which they will be reimbursed up to 14 hours at workshop participant rate.
2.	They can pack their classroom supplies and materi-
als from the present classroom setting and unpack their classroom supplies and materials at their new classroom setting. Certificated staff will be paid at the workshop participant rate for a number of hours
48
not to exceed 12. In this option, custodial and maintenance employees will move the packed materials.
3.	Employees from the custodial and maintenance department of LPS can pack and move all classroom teaching supplies and materials from one location to another. This will occur without the aid of the certificated staff member. The certificated staff member will then be reimbursed at workshop participant rate for classroom rearranging and relocation of supplies and materials in the new setting up to eight hours.
In all of the above options:
1.	Individuals from the custodial and maintenance department will move desks, chairs, filing cabinets and other large and small items as designated by the certificated staff member.
2.	Custodial and maintenance employees will procure boxes for the certificated staff member and will disassemble and store boxes after the move has been completed.
3.	Certificated staff members will not be requested nor
required to clean rooms prior to moving materials into the new classroom setting nor to clean rooms after vacating a classroom setting.
Reasonable notice, usually at least two weeks, of the pending move will be given to teachers. The building principal will provide a plan for moving including the reason for the move, the names of teachers involved, and anticipated hours for each to the Associate Superintendent for Instruction. This plan must be submitted prior to the anticipated moving dates.
The number of hours to be reimbursed maybe extended under extenuating circumstances. Such circumstances need to be described by the teacher and principal and a request for additional hours submitted to the Associate Superintendent for Instruction.
There may be other circumstances (e.g. building reorganization) for which compensation for moving is merited. Principals and teachers should submit a request for payment for such situations to the Associate Superintendent for Instruction.
49
t
9-10 National Board of Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS) Certification
The Lincoln Public Schools and the Lincoln Education Association believe in the importance of NBPTS Certification. In order to encourage staff to pursue Board Certification, the Lincoln Public Schools will provide a scholarship to pay $500 of the initial fee for staff who apply for the program and are selected by the LPS Selection Committee. Depending upon availability of funds, LPS will consider additional scholarship support for staff who do not qualify for the NDE/NSEA scholarships for the remainder of the application fee.
The provisions below apply to all staff who go through the NBPTS Certification Process regardless of how their certification process was funded.
In order to support staff who are going through the NBPTS Certification process, LPS will:
1.	Provide up to two days of professional leave per semester to pursue the certification process.
2.	Provide support from videotape production staff and equipment.
3.	Provided access to the Internet at home.
4.	Accept the portfolio required for NBPTS Certification as meeting LPS Summative Appraisal expectations if approved by the building principal.
5.	Provide support from professional staff and access to professional publications.
The Lincoln Education Association may provide additional Association Leave to LEA members involved in the NBPTS Certification process with the approval of the LEA President.
Staff who complete the NBPTS Certification Process shall immediately receive a Completion Stipend of $600 f rom LPS.
Staff who are notified that they are NBPTS Certified shall immediately receive a Certification Bonus of $1000. A subsequent $600 per semester NBPTS Certification Stipend will be paid at the conclusion
50
of each semester from Lincoln Public Schools starting the contract year after certification is received. This stipend will continue for the life of their NBPTS Certification while they remain employees of the Lincoln Public Schools.
A joint LEA/LPS Professional Committee's Ad Hoc Committee on NBPTS Certification shall be responsible for the implementation of the procedures above. This Committee shall coordinate efforts in LPS to support the National Board Certification process. The Professional Committee shall be responsible for determining the composition of the Ad Hoc Committee and the LPS Selection Committee.
9-11 Defraying the Costs of Continuing Education
The Lincoln Education Association agrees that Lincoln Public Schools may create a program to defray up to actual cost for continuing education to a maximum of thirty-six (36) graduate hours. Such a program shall in no case require anything more from the employee than proof of graduate credit earned at a Nebraska institution of public education. The level of reimbursement and other information regarding the program shall be published annually prior to first quarter at University of Nebraska - Lincoln, and shall remain constant through that year's summer session.
During the life of this Agreement, the Board of Education may at its discretion, institute a program designed to provide tuition assistance to certificated employees who hold less than a Master's Degree.
9-12 Funds to Purchase Equipment/Supplies
In 2002-2003 and 2003-2004, the Board of Education agrees that each certificated employee will be allotted a sum of money ($175) to which the certificated employee may voucher purchases of equipment and/ or supplies to be used in the classroom or for other work-related projects for non-classroom educators at the employee's discretion. There will be no further restrictions other than the development of business procedures to be used for reimbursement.
In addition, the employee may use the $175 allotment for professional leave expenses.
Part-time certificated employees will receive a prorated amount.
51
Guidelines and Procedures for $175 Teacher Allotment
1.	Professional leave expenses for workshops, conference, etc. including cost for substitute, transportation and registration will qualify.
2.	Professional leave expenses also include dues for professional organizations except LEA, NSEA, and NEA.
3.	Professional leave expenses will not include tuition.
4.	This allotment cannot be used for any class or activity that could result in horizontal salary advancement.
5.	The money may not be accumulated over a several-year period. The allotment is good only during the contract period. Teachers, departments, teams or buildings may not combine their allotments topurchase equipment and/ or supplies.
'■	6,	Voucher forms will be available in the school office. Dated
original invoices, receipts or register tapes need to be attached to the voucher to document all requests. The invoice must show the store name. Titles of books need to be cited. Include a brief written explanation for any unusual items or charges.
7.	Limit requests to a minimum of $50. Final claims will be
processed for lesser amounts.
8.	Receipts and voucher forms may be turned in through June 15 for items purchased by the last teacher work day. Purchases may be made during the summer months and vouchers and receipts may be turned in on the first duty day of that next contract.
9.	Part-time staff will receive a prorated amount. This refers not only to PTE, but also the number of days contracted.
10.	Purchases will be made at the employee's discretion. Approval of claims is based on meeting the above criteria and guidelines. There will be no other restrictions.
52
ARTICLE X INCENTIVE PAY 2002-2003 and 2003-2004
The Lincoln Public Schools provides for and encourages programs and activities that promote student learning, achievement, and experiences beyond the regular school day and curriculum. Certificated employees who voluntarily assume additional responsibilities to meet such goals beyond the scope of their regularly assigned duties and contract day warrant compensation for those duties as outlined below in addition to the compensation provided for them on the regular 'salary schedule.
10-1 Conversion Factor
The conversion factor to translate the point schedule for extra standard assignments shall be $3.68 per point/or 2002-2003 and $3.90 per point for 2003-2004. Extra standard salary schedule may be obtained from each building principal or supervisor. Should the Board and Association agree to changes recommended by the joint Extra Standard Committee, alterations to the schedule maybe made by joint agreement. Increase in the extra standard point value is determined by dividing the total base amount of the current year (base salary and fringe benefits total) into the proposed total salary increase unless changes are negotiated by the District and the Association. The current extra standard point value is multiplied by the percent of increase giving the new point value figure. New activities, when approved by the Board of Education, will be in addition to this limitation. The same percentage increase shall be used to calculate the increase in pay for the following positions: (See Appendix A for amounts).
Team Leader
Coordinator
Psychological service stipend Workshop Participant Workshop Leader
Intramural Supervision (rate increase is 1 /3 the rate of the percentage in 10-1).
10-2 Notification
Certificated employees shall be notified in writing of extra standard and optional period assignments by the twentieth (20th) student day i	of the school year.
53
10-3 High School Department Chairs
a.	High school department chairpersons shall be compensated according to the following formula:
I.	The base stipend of $2,798for 2002-2003 and $2,963for 2003-
2004 which includes pay for supply and equipment management as well as unit leadership, plus $100 for each staff member in excess of five up to a maximum of fifteen.
n. A stipend based on the number of different courses available in the department as identified in the published course offerings of the school.
	2002-2003	2003-2004
1 course	$437	$463
11 courses	$656	$695
16+ courses	$874	$926
III.	Extra days added to the contract as determined by the total amount of the combined stipends.
$ 0	-	$2,000	3 days
$2,001	-	$2,400	4 days
$2,401+	5 days
b.	All high school department chairs shall have their teaching assignment reduced the equivalent of one period. Additionally, each school shall be allowed 50 days of substitute time for department chair release as coordinated by the principal.
10-4 Middle School Department Liaisons
Middle School Department Liaisons shall be compensated according to the following formula. The conversion factor to translate these points into extra standard pay shall be as outlined in Article 10-1.
Level "A" Departments which consist of two (2) to four (4) staff members will be assigned 144 points.
Level "B" Departments which consist of five (5) or more staff members will be assigned 336 points.
Single staff member departments will be assigned 72 points.
54
The Special Education Department will be assigned 336 points, regardless of the number of staff members in their department. However, if a building has a special education coordinator, the liaison stipend shall not be paid in addition to the compensation provided to the coordinator.
The availability of this leadership position shall be communicated to all certificated employees in each building.
The following departments/areas shall receive the stipend: Art, Business Education, English, Foreign Language, Home Economics, Industrial Technology, Mathematics, Music, Physical Education/ Health, Reading Liaison, Science, Social Studies, and Special Education.
10-5 Team Leaders, Coordinators and Department Chairs Contract Notification
Team leaders, coordinators and department chairs serving with an extended contract shall continue to serve from year-to-year unless notified by the Human Resources Department by May 1.
10-6 Optional Period
Certificated employees assuming a sixth period of duty shall be paid 1/6 of the BA lane, level 1. Acceptance of a sixth period assignment by a certificated employee shall be strictly voluntary.
10-7 Rewards Based Upon Performance
The Board and the Association agree that rewards based upon the performance of the teacher or the educational gains of students should continue to be studied and expanded when such rewards are tied to enhanced student learning. Individual school sites may initiate such rewards-for-per-formance plans if such plans include the following components:
1.	The plan has measurable goals.
2.	The goals of the plan will enhance student learning and coincide with District goals.
3.	All participants are fully informed about the reward for meeting the goal and the criteria to be used in the objective evaluation of if the goals were met.
4.	All certificated staff members at the site have the opportunity to participate in the plan. Participation in the plan is voluntary.
55
ARTICLE XI
MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT
11-1 The following criteria shall be used to reimburse staff members within the District who use personal automobiles to travel between job sites:
a.	Travel reimbursement will be granted when a staff member teaches in more than one school in a single day.
b.	Travel reimbursement will be determined for itinerant certificated employees and classroom certificated employees who have been recommended to use their personal automobiles. Recommendation for authorization will be forwarded to the Human Resources Office by the consultant or Principal at the beginning of the school year or whenever needed.
11-2 All employees who are required to travel onbehalf of the District shall be reimbursed for expenses at the allowable rate determined by the State of Nebraska, unless otherwise required by law.
11-3 Staff members will be reimbursed four (4) times during the school year - at the end of each quarter - upon presentation of forms prescribed by the Human Resources Office.
ARTICLE XII FRINGE BENEFITS
12-1 Fringe Schedule
The Board of Education agrees to provide $3,072 per year ($256 per month) for each full-time and full-year contracted certificated employee.
Apart-time and /or part-year employee's annual fixed dollar amount will be computed by first determining the yearly salary of the employee, adjusted, for PTE but not adjusted for the number of contract days, and utilizing the table below to determine the annual fringe amount. This amount is then prorated based upon the employee's days worked. The monthly fringe amount is determined by dividing the annual fringe amount by the number of paychecks the employee will receive during the school year.
56

Salary Range	Annual	
0	1,999	255
2,000	3,999	349
4,000	5,999	457
6,000	8,999	995
9,000	11,999	1,734
12,000	Up	3,072
12-2 Fringe Benefit Options
During the month of September, each employee will certify how this benefit will be distributed among the following six (6) options:
a.	Item
1.	Educators Health Alliance plan(s)
2.	Group Dental Insurance
3.	Group Disability Insurance	-
4.	Group Term Life Insurance
5.	Vision Insurance
6.	Cash
b.	Each employee who purchases a district health insurance policy through the Educators Health Alliance Will receive $180 per month in 2002-2003 and $200 per month On 2003-2004 toward that purchase. This is in addition to the fringe benefit amount listed above.
c.	Eligible employees are able to participate, on a voluntary, basis, in the: Section 125 Plan offered by the district.
12-3 Amendment to Fringe Benefits
The parties' non-cash fringe benefits are not considered subject to federal or state income tax or FIC A taxes or to withholding for either state or federal income taxes or FIC A taxes. Accordingly, the method, time and effect of selection of benefits shall be in Accordance with federal rules and regulations adopted for cafeteria plans which are exempt from state and federal income tax and FICA taxes as the same may exist at the time of this agreement Or as the same may be amended during the term of this agreement.
57

ARTICLE XIII PROFESSIONAL COMMITTEE
13-1 Professional Committee
Section 1
The Board and the Association continue their commitment to the concept of the Professional Committee (PROCOM) composed of five to eight persons appointed by the Superintendent, one of which shall be the Superintendent and including one principal from each educational level, and five to eight persons appointed by the Association, one of which shall be the President of the LEA which shall meet regularly to discuss overall relations between the parties, exchange information, receive suggestions, consider problems and discuss improvements. Over the course of the 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 school years, the Professional Committee shall establish the annual agenda for its work.
Section 2
Additional joint ad hoc committees may be determined by the Board of Education and the Lincoln Education Association on an annual basis to serve horn June to June of the year for which are approved.
Section 3
Standing committees shall be:
A.	The Extra-Standard Pay Committee
B.	The Appraisal Joint Committee
C.	The Sabbatical Leave Committee
D.	The Calendar Committee
E.	The Insurance Advisory Committee
F.	The Staff Development Advisory Committee
G.	The Personnel Handbook Advisory Committee
Minutes of meetings involving these committees shall be published and presented to the Professional Committee (PROCOM), the Board of Education and the Board of Directors of the Association. Other committee details will be jointly determined.
58
LINCOLN EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
59
60
APPENDIX A 2002-2003 SALARY SCHEDULE
Step	BA	BA+18	BA+36/MA	MA+18	MA+36	PhD
1	26,948	28,239	29,013	30,045	31,336	33,401
2	27,980	29,529	30,562	31,594	32,885	34,949
3	29,013	30,820	32,110	33,143	34,433	36,498
4	30,045	32,110	33,659	34,691	35,982	38,047
5	31,078	33,143	35,208	36,240	37,272	39^95
6	32,110	34,175	36,756	37,789	38,821	41,144
7	33,143	35,208	38,563	39,337	40,370	42,693
8	34,175	36,240	39,595	40,886	41,918	44,241
9	35,208	37,272	41,144	42,693	43,467	45,790
10	36,240	38,305	42,693	43,983	45,274	47,339
11		39,337	44,241	45,532	46,564	48,887
12			45,790	47,081	48,113	50,436
13			47,081	48,371	49,404	51,727
14			48,371	49,662	50,694	52,759
15			49,371	50,662	51,694 '	53,759
16			50,126	51,417	52,449	54,514
17			50,881	52,172	53,204	55,269
18			51,881	53,172	54,204	56,269
19			52,581	53,872	54,904	56,969
20			53,231	54,522	55,554	57,619
Notes:
1.	Continuing employees will move one vertical step where possible for 2002-2003.
2.	New hires will be placed according to the chart below.
61