AGREEMENT
Between
THE SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS of the
SCHOOL DISTRICT OF PHILADELPHIA
and the
NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF FIREMEN AND OILERS
LOCAL 1201
AFFILIATED WITH SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO
SEPTEMBER 1,1999
AUGUST 31,2003
AGREEMENT
Between
THE SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS
of the
SCHOOL DISTRICT OF PHILADELPHIA
and the
NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF FIREMEN AND OILERS
LOCAL 1201
AFFILIATED WITH SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO
SEPTEMBER 1,1999
TO
AUGUST 31,2003
Printed by members of Local 1201

TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLES	PAGE
1	Board Prerogatives.......................................................3
II	Recognition of the Union.................................................4
III	Definitions..............................................................5
IV	Grievance Procedure......................................................6
V	Resolution of Differences by Peaceful Means.............................10
VI	Fair Practices..........................................................10
VII	Joint Continuing Committees.............................................10
VIII	Rights of the Union.....................................................13
IX	Working Conditions - All Departments....................................14
X	Working Conditions - Maintenance........................................22
XI	Working Conditions - Engineering and Cleaning...........................24
XII	Working Conditions - School Aides & Bus Attendants......................30
XIII	Working Conditions - Transportation.....................................32
XIV	Working Conditions - Building Inspectors................................35
XV	Wages and Hours of Work.................................................35
XVI	Health and Welfare Benefits.............................................45
XVII	Vacations ..............................................................54
XVIII	Seniority..................................................................55
XIX	Departmental Training Programs..........................................60
XX	Transfers and Assignments of Facilities/Maintenance Employees...........64
XXI	Transfer and Assignments of Transportation Employees, School Aides And Bus
Attendants.............................................................71
XXII	Shop Stewards...........................................................81
XXIII	Saving Clause..............................................................82
XXIV	Amendments.................................................................82
XXV	Entirety of Agreement...................................................82
XXVI	No Reprisal Clause.........................................................82
XXVII	Duration of Agreement.......................................................82
Appendix "A”...........................................................84
Appendix "B"	87
Appendix "C"	97
Appendix "D"	98
Appendix "E"	100
Appendix "F"	101
Appendix "G"	103
Appendix "H"	104
Appendix T............................................................109
Article I
Agreement made and entered into on the 1st day of September, 1999, by and between the Superintendent of Schools of the School District of Philadelphia, hereinafter referred to as the "Superintendent" and the National Conference of Firemen and Oilers, Local 1201, affiliated with the Service Employees International Union, AFL-CIO hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Education on November 28,1966 and September 9, 1968, the Superintendent is duly authorized to bargain collectively concerning matters set forth in said resolutions and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the procedure designated in said Board of Education resolutions, the Superintendent did designate the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for the employees hereinafter referred to; and
WHEREAS, it is the desire of both parties to this Agreement to bargain collectively with regard to wages, hours and working conditions set forth herein,
NOW THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the covenants herein contained, with intent to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
BOARD PREROGATIVES
Section 1.	The Board of Education and the Superintendent shall continue to have control over the management, direction and operation of Facilities Management Services, Transportation and Warehouse Departments, long-term substitute and regularly appointed School Aide I, School Aides II, and School Aides 111 Building Construction Inspectors I, and II, including, but not limited to the employment, classification and initial or subsequent assignment of employees, the suspension or dismissal of employees and the making of rules and regulations for the management and operation of the Departments of the School District set forth in Appendix "A" as amended, attached hereto and made part hereof, including the choice of machinery and equipment and the methods of performing the work and duties in said departments. All rights and powers conferred upon the Board of Education by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the Philadelphia Home Rule Charter are reserved to it. The Superintendent agrees, however, that those working conditions specified in this Agreement may be changed only by mutual written consent between the Superintendent and the Union. Present working conditions, which have been set forth in (a) Board of Education Regulations, Resolutions or By-laws, and (b) Board of Education Bulletins, which do not affect inherent managerial policy (which shall include but not be limited to such areas of discretion or policy as the functions and programs of the School District of Philadelphia, standards of services, its overall budget, utilization of technology, the organizational structure and selection and direction of personnel) shall not be changed during the life of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Except for the provisions of Article IV and any binding decision that emanates therefrom, any provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, no provision of this Agreement shall be construed as limiting the Superintendent's authority or managerial prerogative.
3

Article II
ARTICLE II RECOGNITION OF THE UNION
Section 1.	The Superintendent agrees to and hereby does recognize the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the purpose of collective bargaining in any and all matters relating to wages, hours and working conditions specified in this Agreement on behalf of all employees in the classifications set forth in Appendix "A" attached hereto and made part hereof.
Section 2.	The Superintendent shall permit a designated regular staff member of the Union or an off-duty employee representative of the Union to visit the work location at a time mutually agreed upon by the representative and principal or supervisor in charge of the work location to investigate employee complaints or grievances relating to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. If the time of visit is not mutually agreed upon, the representative shall inform the principal and the immediate department supervisor, in writing, at least two (2) work days in advance of his/her visit if the work location is a school, or the supervisor in charge of the work location if it is not a school. Upon the representatives' arrival, the principal, or, in his/her absence, the acting administrator and the immediate supervisor of the employees of the work location, shall confer with the Union Representative in order to facilitate the purpose of his/her visit. If conferences with employees are necessary, they shall be scheduled so as not to interfere with the work program. Upon his/her departure from the work location, he/she shall so inform the principal if the work location is a school, or the supervisor in charge of the work location if it is other than a school.
Section 3.	The Superintendent will deduct from the pay of each employee who delivers a written authorization to do so, in form satisfactory to the Superintendent, the required amount for the payment of Union initiation fees and Union dues. The fees and dues, a list of employees from whom they have been deducted and the amount deducted from each, a list of employees who had authorized such deduction and from whom no deductions were made and the reasons therefor, shall be forwarded to the Union no later than thirty (30) days after such deductions were made.
Section 4.	Any employee who, at the time of the execution of this Agreement, is or becomes a member of the Union or who has authorized the deduction of dues shall, as a condition of employment, continue such membership or dues deduction for the duration of this Agreement provided, however, that such employee may resign from membership in the Union or revoke his/her dues authorization by so notifying the Board and the Union in writing during the period from August 17,2003 through August 31,2003. In the event that a person ceases to be employed in a position included in the bargaining unit represented by the Union, such membership and dues deduction shall be discontinued at that time.
Section 5.	Any employee included in the bargaining unit who is not a member of the Union shall have deducted from his/her pay a fair share payment following the end of the employee's probationary period. Such deductions shall be transmitted to the union in the same manner as regular dues. Any change in the fair share fee shall be submitted to the Board by the Union in the same manner as changes in dues are submitted. The Union agrees to hold the School District harmless from any claims, disputes, and/or litigation which may arise regarding the School District's participation in deducting such fee.
4
Article III
Section 6.	The School District will, at its own expense, print sufficient copies of this Agreement for present and new employees.
Section 7.	The Superintendent shall make available to the Union, upon its written request, any and all information and statistics the School District has theretofore compiled and records it customarily maintains which are reasonably relevant to negotiations or necessary for the proper enforcement of the terms of this Agreement, to the extent to which such material is readily available or is reasonably obtainable.
ARTICLE III DEFINITIONS
Section 1.	The following terms, as used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings herein set forth and no other:
Section 1a. ADVANTAGE system shall refer to the current computerized payroll system.
Section 1b. "Board of Education" shall mean the Board of Education of the School District of Philadelphia and its representatives in the administration of the said School District.
Section 1	c. "Classification" shall mean the pay step, job classification or job description in which the employee is currently appointed or in which he/she is employed as a long-term substitute.
Section 1	d. “Custodial employees" shall generally refer to custodial assistants and/or cleaning leaders, general cleaners and housekeepers but may also include building engineers.
Section 1e. "Department" shall mean the department designation under which the employee's classification is listed in Appendix "A".
Section If. "Employees" shall mean all of the personnel who continue to hold appointments by the Board of Education in the classifications set forth in Appendix "A" attached hereto, provisional employees and long-term substitutes employed in such classifications, and no other employees of file School District of Philadelphia. For the purposes of this Agreement, "employees" shall not mean "per diem substitutes".
Section 1g. A "Long-term substitute" shall mean a person working for the School District who does not hold an appointment in any classification of the Board of Education, but who has been employed in any classification for more than sixty (60) consecutive calendar days, holds a satisfactory performance rating and is likely to continue in a job as a substitute for an appointed employee, or in a vacancy, for an additional three (3) consecutive months or more and is thereupon designated as a "Long-term Substitute".
Section 1h. "Pay progression” shall mean the pay level or pay rate within a pay step.
Section 1i. “Pay step” shall mean the pay range assigned to a job classification.
Section 1	j. A "Per diem substitute" shall mean a person working for the School District who does not hold an appointment in any classification from the Board of Education, who has been employed
5
Article IV
for less than sixty (60) calendar days in any classification or who is working as a substitute for an appointed employee who will likely return to work in less than sixty (60) consecutive calendar days.
Section 1 k. “Provisionally appointed employees" are defined as employees who are appointed to fill a vacancy pending examination because there is no current eligibility list in existence for the classification involved. Provisional employees shall receive all the status and benefits of a regularly appointed employee from the date of the provisional appointment except that he/she shall not be regularly appointed to the position unless he/she passes the next examination given for such classification and his/her name is reached on the eligibility list resulting from such examination.
Section 11.	"Superintendent” shall mean the Superintendent of the School District of Philadelphia and his/her representatives in the administration of the said School District, except as that term is used in Article XXIV hereof, in which event it is to be restricted to the Superintendent himself/herself.
Section 1 m. "Union'' shall mean Local 1201, National Conference of Fireman and Oilers, and any representative thereof authorized in writing to act for such Local, except as that term is used Article XXIV hereof, in which event the representative shall be restricted to the President, Vice President of Local 1201 and the National Conference President of the Union or his/her designee.
Section 1 n. "Vacancy" shall mean an authorized position not filled by a duly appointed person.
Section 1o. "Work location" for the employees in the engineering and cleaning classifications shall mean the school or building in which the employee is regularly employed. For the employees in the Maintenance Department, it shall mean the supervisory office to which the employee is assigned. For the employees in the Warehouse Department, it shall mean the warehouse in which the employee is regularly employed. For the employees in the Transportation Department, it shall mean the garage to which the employee is regularly assigned. For School Aides I and 111 it shall mean the sending school. For'School Aides II it shall mean the school or building in which the employee is regularly employed. For Building Construction Inspectors it shall mean the Office of Design and Construction.
ARTICLE IV GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1.	A grievance shall mean a complaint by an employee in the bargaining unit (1) that there has been as to him/her a violation, misinterpretation or inequitable application of any of the provisions of this Agreement, or (2) that he/she has been treated unfairly or inequitably by reason of an act or condition which is contrary to established policy or practice governing or affecting employees, or (3) that there is no policy or practice governing the act or condition upon which the complaint is based. In the latter event, the sole result of the grievance, if it is so determined, shall be the formation of a policy thereon by the Board of Education or the Superintendent and the equitable application thereof to the complainant and other employees in the bargaining unit similarly situated, except that in the formulation of such aforesaid policy by the Superintendent or the Board, such policy shall not be in violation of the provisions of this Agreement.
An employee may grieve concerning a performance rating only within five (5) days after receipt of notice of such rating after review and only if the grievance is based upon an
6
Article IV
allegation that the rating was made arbitrarily or capriciously. The judgment of the supervisors, based upon observation and performance, shall not be the subject of a grievance. In any event, the final step for a grievance concerning performance rating shall be the Executive Director of Human Resources.
The term "grievance" shall not apply to any matter as to which the Board of Education is without authority to act or to any matter as to which any other method of review is required by law or any rule or regulation of the Board of Education, which rule or regulation is not in violation of this Agreement. The development or modification of a salary schedule or classification plan is not subject to a grievance. As used in this Article, the term "employee" shall mean also a group of employees having the same grievance.
Section 1 b. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to deny any employee any of his/her rights under any laws of the Commonwealth Pennsylvania.
Section 2.	Procedure for Adjusting Complaints and Grievances.
Section 2a. The employee shall first discuss his/her complaint orally with his/her immediate supervisor, either alone or accompanied by the Shop Steward, or a fellow employee with the objective of resolving the matter informally.
Section 2a(i). An employee of the Maintenance Department may transmit such complaint through his/her Shop Steward with the objective of resolving the matter informally. Such Shop Steward shall perform all of his/her functions on his/her own time.
Section 2b. Step 1 - In the event the complaint is not resolved informally, the Shop Steward and/or the employee shall present the grievance, in writing, to the supervisor designated for such employee within one (1) calendar week following the act or condition which is the basis of the grievance. The supervisor, after consultation with the director of the department involved, shall meet with the Steward and/or the employee involved, in an effort to resolve the grievance. Within seven (7) calendar days after the grievance meeting, said supervisor shall communicate his/her decision in writing to the Shop Steward and/or the employee involved.
Section 2c. Step 2 - The Union may appeal the decision of the supervisor to the Executive Director of Human Resources within seven (7) calendar days after receiving the decision of the supervisor. The appeal shall be in writing and shall be accompanied by a copy of the supervisor's decision. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the Labor Relations Section of the Division of Human Resources shall use its good offices to adjust or resolve the grievance amicably.
Section 2c (1). If the efforts toward amicable adjustment do not resolve the grievance, then not later than thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the Executive Director of Human Resources, or his/her designee, shall hold a hearing on the grievance appeal.
He/she may hear witnesses or employees who participated in the first step of the grievance or any other participants and evidence relevant to the issues involved. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the hearing, the Executive Director of Human Resources shall communicate
7
Article IV
his/her decision, in writing together with the supporting reason, to the aggrieved employee, the Union, the Director of the department involved and the principal of the school, in the event that the work location is a school.
Section 2d. Step 3 - Within twenty-five (25) days after receiving the decision of the Executive Director of Human Resources, the Superintendent or the Union may submit the matter to arbitration if the grievance involves (1) that there has been as to an employee a violation, misinterpretation or inequitable application of any of the provisions of this Agreement or (2) that the employee has been treated unfairly or inequitably by reason of any act or condition which is contrary to established policy or practice governing or affecting employees, or (3) requests the enforcement of any term of this Agreement. No other grievance may be submitted to arbitration. The proceeding may be initiated by filing with the Superintendent, if the arbitration request is initiated by the Union, and with the Union, if the arbitration request is initiated by the Superintendent, a notice of arbitration.
Section 2e. This notice of arbitration shall include a brief, written statement setting forth precisely the issue or issues to be decided by the arbitrator and the specific provision or provisions of the Agreement involved.
Section 2f. Within five (5) days after either the Superintendent or the Union has submitted a notice of arbitration, such matter or matters shall be submitted for final determination to an arbitrator, mutually agreed upon by the parties or, failing agreement, to an arbitrator designated by the American Arbitration Association.
Section 2g. The Arbitrator shall be chosen in accordance with the then current Rules of the American Arbitration Association governing the voluntary settlement of labor disputes. All expenses and salary of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Superintendent and the Union.
Section 2h. The Arbitrator shall issue his/her decision, which decision shall be final and binding upon the parties, not later than thirty (30) days after the date of the closing of the hearing, or, if oral hearing has been waived, then thirty (30) days from the date of transmitting the final statements and proofs to the arbitrator. The decision shall be in writing and shall set forth the arbitrator's opinion and conclusions on the issues submitted. The Arbitrator shall have the power and authority to decide, and shall limit his/her decision strictly to the matters specified in the first paragraph of this Step 3. The Arbitrator shall be without power or authority to make any decisions:
Section 2h(l). Contrary to, or inconsistent with, or which modifies or varies in any way, the terms of this Agreement or of applicable law or roles or regulations having the force and effect of law; or
Section 2h(ii).Which limits or interferes in any way with the powers, duties and the responsibilities of the Board under its by-laws, applicable law or rules and regulations having the force and effect of law.
Section 2i. At each of the first two steps of this Grievance Procedure, the Board and the Union shall have the opportunity and duty to present all documentary evidence and witnesses on which each relies in support of its position. At Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure and before the Arbitrator, each of said parties shall be given the opportunity to present documentary evidence and witnesses on which it relies but shall not be permitted to present any evidence or witnesses not
8
Article IV
presented at either Step 1 or Step 2, unless such evidence or witnesses were not known to exist and could not, by reasonable diligence have been discovered prior to the hearing at Step 3.
Section 2j. The employee and the Union shall be given at least four (4) calendar days notice, in writing, of the time and place of each hearing, at each step.
Section 2k. The filing or pendency of any grievance under the provisions of this Article shall in no way operate to impede, delay or interfere with the right of the Superintendent to take the action complained of, subject however, to the final decision on the grievance.
Section 21. Failure at any step of this procedure to communicate the decision on a grievance within the specified time limits shall permit the Union to lodge an appeal at the next step of this procedure.
Section 2m. The time limits specified in this procedure may be extended in any specific instance, by mutual agreement.
Section 2n. If a grievance arises from an action of authority higher than the immediate supervisor, the Union may present the grievance at Step 2 of this procedure without Step 1 thereof.
Section 2o. No officer or Executive Board member, delegate, representative, or agent of a minority organization shall represent the aggrieved employee at Step 1 of this procedure. An agent shall include any person, who, acting in an official capacity for a minority organization, regularly performs for that organization such acts as distributing literature, collecting dues, circulating petitions, soliciting membership, or serving regularly as a spokesman at employees' meetings. An agent shall not include any person who performs such duties occasionally or without any official designation by the minority organization involved. A minority organization shall mean any organization other than the Union.
Section 2p. An employee who is not a Union representative or such representative's designee shall not accompany or act on behalf of an aggrieved employee at the presentation of an oral complaint prior to Step 1 of this procedure in more than two (2) grievances during a calendar year.
Section 3.	Whenever members of the bargaining unit are mutually scheduled by the parties to participate during work hours in conferences, meetings, grievances (grievant only), or in negotiations, respecting the collective bargaining agreement, they shall suffer no loss in pay.
Section 4.	An employee shall not be subject to discharge except for just cause. In such case, the employee shall have the option to proceed under the provisions of the Pennsylvania Public School Code, or in the alternative, under the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement, but in no event under both provisions.
Section 5.	Any employee in the bargaining unit who is awarded back pay for either a suspension or termination as a result of a grievance or arbitration shall have the dues or fair share fee for the appropriate period deducted by the School District from the award.
9

Article VIII
Article VII
productivity, cost effeXeness lerountabite and6 Pafrtles believe ‘hat it will promote greater of performance quality and performance incentives CUS‘Omer satisfaction to implement standards standards and incentives0"1^'1*66 °n Standards-Based Quality Improvement shall develop such
contribute its recommendations fo^tteXwand e^mhation: Examination Procadures shall
a- ^necxiposite*and
b uni?erSOnS Wh° apply fOr positions in this bargaining
Superintendent shall partcr^XS^XScommitteeto°2frind (3) rePresentatives of the ^ntendentfor an efUve sysK^X^
be established Slat’S bT S^d S’ reSgXute ° ° I TdT	Sch001DiStriot shal)
maintenance consolidation.	d,sPu‘es related to implementation of the
curriculum,tratoing?testin°gte^ch of ?hpr®sentation sha" establish the Engineers established in the 1999 - 2003 contract.f	h f *he f°Ur c,assifications of Building
develoXrteriafoVXdasSVn™	and Local 1201 shall
buildings. The committee shall be composed of no?thhallapp,y‘oal1 new and existing management and three (3) representatives^*Local 1201 three 3 representa‘ives of mana^^a”‘as towharcon^totes^na^ntahvo^aToinUaborf °f Empl°yees and created. It will be the function of this committee to meet nn 1labor/maaa9ement committee will be of any disputes that arise between Employees and manX™ as needed basis to review the facts relates to specific situations P y d management concerning incidental work as it
ARTICLE VIII
RIGHTS OF THE UNION
Section 1	a. Adequate bulletin board spa^s^' tio^readlb' accessible^ all members of the be designated by the supervisor at such wtetoate,	dea!ing with proper and
bargaining unit, for the Pos‘ia9 °‘	material shall bear the signature of a responsible
legitimate" Union business. Allsd?	is the Union. The authorized
XXX lowered to post these materiais on that
board.
S.0M ,b. Reasonable space «> —S «•*> having School Aide(s) assigned thereto.
Section 2.	Meetings at work locatei-on threeg days^^^""Sgm’to schedule to the person in-charge of the work lodat'°a’ J^etings before or after regular duty hours
,	• Chon Upward in anv work location for which one is
Section 3.	In the event there is no Shop Stew " aanother work location may be designated under Article XXII hereof an a Unjon bv a letter of authorization signed by the designated the authorized representative of th Umonby'a feteo	ities of shop
President or Vice President of the Umon toout a^es	s[Ja|| not be entitled to
SX” *;r
Section 4.	Upon proper written aPP"0^®}“jtXbargXr^unitfor'the conduct of
Board may grant leaves of absence wrthppay'° ™v® ntions. or to serve as full-time officers or Union business, to attend Union inferences ,or	)e
employees of the Union. To the exte P benefjts’and shall continue to accrue senionty for of absence shall retain all insurance . service. upon return to service, such employee salary increments as though they were 9	similar assignment with all accrued
shall be placed on the assignment which he/she left or on a simua	servjce
benefits and increments that he/she would hav®h^™ad g^itted t0 pay both their own and the Employees on such full-time leaves of abs	equiringPsuch contributions, provided the same
unless extended by the Superintendent upon wntten appboabon.
praMdures of the School District ter hendllng disapltnaty aehons.
procedures oMhe School District for handling d.sc.plmary actions.
12
13
Article IX
Section 6. Employees shall be permitted to wear their Union buttons while performing work.
ARTICLE IX
WORKING CONDITIONS - ALL DEPARTMENTS
Section 1. The Superintendent will provide, for each work location, a copy of present work rules for each classification of employees at such work location. The Superintendent will also supply to the Union sufficient copies of the present work rules for distribution to the Shop Stewards at such work location.
Section 2a. The Superintendent agrees that, when the calendar has been established, there shall be no revision in that calendar which shall result in a change in the total number of work days, holidays and unpaid days off. The calendar applicable to twelve month employees shall include no fewer than thirteen (13) paid holidays, among which shall be New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
The calendar applicable to ten-month employees shall contain no fewer than twelve (12) paid holidays, which shall fall within their term of employment.
Section 2b. Regular part-time bus chauffeurs shall be paid for the number of hours they are scheduled to work when a holiday falls on a day they are regularly scheduled to work.
Section 2c(i). Bus Chauffeurs and Bus Attendants assigned exclusively to non-public schools shall work the calendar of the non-public school.
Section 2c(li). Prior to the beginning of the school year, each such employees shall be given the non-public school calendar which designates the minimum of twelve (12) paid holidays for ten (10) month non-public school chauffeurs and attendants and the minimum of thirteen (13) paid holidays for twelve (12) month non-public school chauffeurs.
Section 2c(iii). Included in such designated holidays shall be: Christmas Day, New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and for twelve (12) month Employees, the Fourth of July.
Section 2c(iv).	Employees required to work on any of the holidays designated above shall
be paid in accordance with Article XV, Section 15b.
Section 2c(v).All other School District of Philadelphia holidays worked shall not be considered as holidays for any purpose.
Section 2c(vi). On all other non-public school holidays, Employees will receive their regular pay.
Section 3.	A uniform practice and procedure shall be established for each department for the recording of attendance.
14
Article IX
Section 4.	An employee who, upon advance notice to his/her supervisor, is granted permission for unpaid time off shall not be required to take off more time than requested and for which approval has been obtained.
Section 5.	In the event a particular school is dismissed because, in the opinion of the principal, the inside temperature is too low to continue the educational program, all employees whose services are not required to assist with the problem or with the supervision of children shall be released or reassigned to another work location for the remainder of the day. All such employees shall be notified, reasonably prior to the next working day, whether to report to their regular school or to another location.
Section 6,	Adult sanitary facilities at each school shall be available to all employees at such school.
Section 7a. Where the Capital Budget and resources permit, each work location not now so equipped shall be provided with a room, including lockers, so that employees may change their clothes. Such provision shall be based on a list of priorities determined by the Superintendent in consultation with the Union.
Section 7b. Locker room space assigned to the custodial staff shall not be converted to other than instructional purposes unless a satisfactory alternative is provided.
Section 8. The administration shall exert its best efforts to protect all employees in the bargaining unit from verbal abuse and physical assault while engaged in the performance of their duties.
Employees in the bargaining unit shall conduct themselves properly at all times while at work and shall not provoke or incite by words or conduct any students, teachers, or other personnel.
When protection is deemed necessary by the Building Engineer, he/she shall notify the principal. A directive from the Office of Facilities Management and Services shall be issued to each Building Engineer outlining the procedures the Building Engineer shall follow.
Section 9a. Employees who discover an unsafe or hazardous condition shall report such condition to the administrator of the work location. The administrator shall initiate appropriate action to correct such condition.
Section 9b. The Union may call to the attention of the Administration the need for special safety equipment. Where needed, such equipment shall be provided.
Section 10.	Where gloves are reasonably necessary for the performance of the specific task to which an employee in the bargaining unit is assigned, he/she shall be issued adequate gloves for such assigned task.
Employees shall properly use, care for and account for such gloves.
15 ________________________
Article IX
Article IX
Section 11.	Female employees shall not be prohibited from wearing slacks.
KJSSSH £“*KTI T* ? •“”™d "“Wo" " the
S™o.Sn< szxl'slj:	pw» io
»H> <»2S.OO) pp, month to ..a, month of pS.p5£5'*' Sh“ *	»
refmbu««.„,TO" h'JE.pZJZ.SSZoiS'”	10 U
District.	d by the SuPe™tendent to be in the best interest of the School
Presently portormad by omptoy«. ,„
District determines that itis mo re eXSo	ba,ng c°"^ted out unless School
performed by employees within the unit Prior to ihp^ni^ su°h work rather than to have the work such work the School DisZ shXrovide to the Un nnlnany decision t0 con,ract out in sufficient time for the Unioto attempt"to demo~ fin®nc,al data concerning such decision practical considerations not to do so f uX ® Wlthln a reasonable «nre the fiscal and c°ntractingoutofthewoikwil°res°lt?nm[nirnalornn«^!in^0nrhnCc ?e Scho°' Dis,ric‘that the Nothing herein shall be construed tn donv the c°k n°t ?®v n9s’ toe School District shall not do so. power to contract out work presently being «nbSd out 'nhefent manageria' Policy makin9 SSX S.“'.ES JS'S’.S.’T to ?te >“ •" Preptoyee employee and the Union shall be notified The Union qbai^^6?^5 aS an emPloyee, the discussion within forty-eight (48) hours of such nn«™~ h L pr°vide representation at such scheduled by the ad^nisfrator o^upeXr	SUCh 'ater tlme aS the discussion is
S to.'.m K?p?“d.'" ”•	"•
requested to sign the material and shall hp oiCLn rhT eW SPch,mater<al. The employee shall be and the answer shall be included in his/her file if °pportunity t0 answer in writing such material
with a covering letter, by certified mail.
locations wffich are open, in Area Offices and in the Administration Burldrng.
Section 18b. Copies of ai. such postings	X'S
category.
Portion 18c The Oral Examining Board for every examination taken by an employee must include *Sone peraon wkhSUl knowledge of the field or area of the examination.
SnXn and ffclXrttonJf any, before the ora. portion of the examination >s taken.
be permitted to make a copy of the recording.
may examine and copy the eligibility list.
he/she desires, be accompanied by a representative of the Union.
freeze.
16
1 7
Article IX
Article IX
e^S^^	unit is j
SBSxB—
«*“™"»,„,!Mmad. un„^XS!S3m'“
Section 25c. The parties have agreed to a revised Substance Abuse Policy to comply with Department of Transportation regulations. See Appendix I .
Section 25d. If the administration places an employee on strict probation as a result of disciplinary acton the duration of such period of strict probation shall not exceed one (1) year.
Er===“=====s=
for any proposed action.
m When an emolovee has received an unfavorable anecdotal record(s) which does not «■■■ year period.
26 In the event that a major department/function is discontinued, the School District. shall SSSSSxSSSSSx complete in order to qualify for existing budgeted positions.
Under and subject to this provision, full time employees shall be assigned to^lull time
Any affected employee assigned to a job classification with a lower rate of pay shall be entitled to retain his/her existing rate of pay for a period not to exceed two years.
If an employee declines an assignment made pursuant to the above provision, the School District shall have no further obligation to provide additional opportunities.
This provision shall not be construed to require the School District to assign any employee to any position not contained in the School District budget.
In the event that the number of affected employees exceeds toe available vacancies
18
1 9
Article IX
Article IX
toe right to provide advance notice of job elimination to affected employees and transfer toe affected employees pnor to toe effective date of the work force reduction. In toe interim period manaaement obligation After the exnlrefinn nf fon i. _. n.	hi,ch management has no continuing
shaH have nl forther	♦ ^elve (12) month period stated above-the School District '
snail nave no further obligation to employ said employees.
Section 27. Safety shoes shall be provided and replaced on demonstrated need basis for s5EontaJVBUal Department. Audio-Visual employees shall be required to wear the
Section 28a When an employee is absent due to illness, he/she shall report his/her absence at ' as‘ rt2e’hra f h ■nh0Ur Pn°r t0 h'S/her normal Starting time- He/she shall not be required to call each day of such illness unless his/her estimated date of return changes. An employees shall reoort his/her return to work no later than the day prior to his/her date of return Y Sha" report
,,«. a ^yyhen an Ensineer or Engineer Trainee is going to be absent or late he/she chaii to lLT™riTtnTCe fo thx rwd'° disPatcherJs office in sufficient time for the necessary adjustments to be made to have the buildmg heated and the plant in operation at the scheduled time
. The aPPr°Priate leave form must be completed for all absences in order for the ewuSd Suchteev Sf aiy °r hTnlfh insurance Payments and for his/her absence to be considered f mUSt be comple,ed for each pay period in which the absence falls If an bsence due to il ness exceeds three (3) days, the employee must furnish a statement from his/her date ofretom	indiCatin9 the diagnosis of the illness. »>e duration and the estimated
subsequent six (6) months of work, the step one letter will be removed from his/her file.
II If after the steps outlined above, toe employee's usage exceeds an additional four (4) days in a four (4) month period or less, he/she shall be subject to a written reprimand. The employees will be> given forty-eight (48) hours notice that a conference will be held and he/she is entitled to be represented by his/her Union representative, "her the conference, a reprimand, where warranted, shall be sent to the employees and to the Union. Such written reprimand shall include a statement to the effect that continued excessive absenteeism could result in further disciplinary action.
Ill If the pattern of excessive absenteeism continues, the employees shall again be called in for a conference with his/her Union representative after having been given at least forty-eight (48) hours notice. At such a conference, depending upon the extent of the number of days of absence and toe pattern of usage, toe employees shall be considered by his/her Director for further written repnmand, suspension for no more than thirty (30) days, or dismissal. Such action will be subject to appeal to the Hearing Officer for Human Resources.
Section 28c. Recognizing that attendance is a serious problem, the School Distnct and Union agree as follows:
. Paychecks shall not be distributed to employees who have failed to submit the necessary absence cards by the payday of the absence period.
• J; When sick leave usage and/or paid illness in family usage exceeds famih5| daySrln a T 6 month penod or less (exGluding verified long-term illness and long-term family leave), an absence review shall be instituted as follows:	9
advise him/her nf foie eiei, I a' The amP'°yees is to be interviewed by his/her supervisor to auvise him/her of this sick leave/idness in family record;
1	That the procedure delineated in Section 30b above of the collective bargaining agreement is the proper method and procedure for controlling sick leave.
2	That any past practice in regard to the application of the procedure delineated in Section 30b above is hereby abolished and that the procedure delineated in Section 30b above shall hereafter be applied literally.
paragraph II of the procedure 12 months shall not be entitled
That an employee who has been reprimanded under delineated in Section 30b above within toe preceding
to share in equalization of overtime.
.nd »» M „ b	" “W
d.
... ...	_A form letter will be used to note the date of the conference
»“S. A, .Xs *■b<	~
Section 28d. Nothing contained in the forgoing shall be construed to deny any employee his/he rights under the Agreement or to affect School District policies or regulations with respect to absences or leaves Copies of such School District policies and regulations shall be made part of the minutes of toe first meeting of each departmental committee meeting.
Section 29. The School District shall supply uniforms, including cold weather gear to Stock Clerks and Warehouse Helpers in the warehouse. These uniforms will be provided as soon a practical and will be replaced on a demonstrated need basis.
In toe event that an employees has no absences in the
20
21
Article X
------------------—-______________________________ Article X--------------------------------------------------------------------—
of three (3) designees of the Superintendent, one of whom shall be from a School District
ARTICLE X	department other than Facility, and two (2) designees of the Union.
WORKING CONDITIONS - MAINTENANCE DEPARTMENT	truck bid scheduied for May 2000 shall be postponed until December 2000^
^^'^te'empk^^'ntenanCeDepartmentSballeStablisbaun’^mpractice for the issuance^
Employees who are provided with safety shoes shall be required to wear them on the
T fc"	•—> »■ Sd.»l District - provide «.8h. tr.it., wh.« .W®
sXnX” sas iizs: ix p““ “	"""	"a ,or “b““
_	,	! Section 11 Asbestos Workers will be provided a tool carrying allowance and mileage
MsXeementTdTmJr	hh°°kS Wi" be replaced with ^ough-bolt types during the life of ’ reimbursement in the manner outlined in Article IX, Section 12a and Secton 12b.
of( section 12. safety shoes shal, be pravided and rep.aced on a demonstrated need basis for
Asbestos Workers.
Section 4.
:h^l™	dock at the work
location to which theyare assigned upon arriving atftat'SnTa^^fiT h W°rk ■ Section 13 A fifteen (15) minute period before and after lunch shall be provided to permit
^ASnC8 hTT Wh° 'S aSSi9ned t0 a maintenance vehic'e "ay examine	be cSidated^nto eigM SXSffXSg shall be deemed a maintenance
specified need, the emptoye^wntoe'prwide^a'copy^f Ute^report rePa'r^aC'''^ Wherethereis craft claSS“' (SeeAppend,X C).
Section 14a. Mechanics within each consolidated classification shall perform the work of that classification as prescribed in the relevant job description.
Maintenance siXbVrSTnX a T* Within District Maintenance and within Central
Section 14b. Mechanics within each newly defined classification shall perform incidental work defined as follows:
Incidental work is that work which can be performed within the general stall set of a mechanic but may fall outside of the generaldefinitiorrof the individual’s job description. Mechanics perform incidental work in order to complete a j without the need to hand off work to another trade.
22
23
Article XI
Article XI
in a reasonably shSha’1 be
Common understanding of incidental work will evolve over time.	Section 6b. Where a building engineer is instructed by the Area Manage,’
ARTICLE XI WORKING CONDITIONS - ENGINEERING & CLEANING
SS=~=x^^
==-=S~=~-~~=i
Section 8	The following schedule of temporary assignment and replacement of licensed employees or custodial assistants during the heating season is agreed to:
Twm nprinn school	no reassignment
Three person school	1 reassignment replacement after 1 day
During the non-heating season, one licensed employee or custodial assistant may be temporarily reassigned from a two-person school for no more than one day.
No reassignments in a particular Area shall be made under the provisions of this section if:
1.	Any relief building engineer vacancies exist in that
Area, or
2.	The authorized relief staff has not been increased by one position for each custodial employee in that Area working in a position out of the bargaining unit, or
3.	Any relief building engineer in that Area is currently substituting in a vacancy that has resulted from a delay in awarding a bid for transfer or assignment.
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, during the heating season reassignments to a one or two person school may be made whenever necessary prevent me dosing ofsuch a school due to the lack of custodial staff. Such reass.gnments shall be perm.tted for the period of time necessary for such purpose.
The oresent authorized number of relief building engineers per Area referred to in1 above shall not be arbitrarily or capriciously reduced in such manner that it destroys the intent or th effect of this provision.
Section 6a. Where the building engineer is requested to perform other than routine and regular
Section 9.	With the exception of those steam generating units that are designed to operate
24
25
Article XI
Article XI
SXndsTerXS	Sha" be °peraled unattended beyond fiftee square feet, assistance from the Landscape Department will be provided.
Xn^Where^eSunL^^'	°f Mdin9 contracte rela«n9to

• re'7 S^al^a !s" t" bSasisX^s^	JereTnXfor d«ng
is provide grade of the building.
Section 16b. The parties agree to meet and discuss the issue of the cleaning of cafeteria area.

Section 13a(i).
Section 13a(ii).
Such service shall provide for the following:
A four (4) foot path, free of ice and snow, on all sidewalks around the school

.n.taWb.».r„X”„XSS“."“: ”’,A™	“*“*“*■
Section 13b(i).
Section 13b(ii).
Section 13b(iii).
Section 13b(iv).
Section 13b(v).
A 30-inch path on all public sidewalks around the school. A path to the front door of sufficient width to the exit itself. A path from fire exits, in equal width to the exit itself. Openings from sidewalk to street, where required.
Section 16c. Where cafeterias are used as gymnasiums, <thiS use requireS service, an additional custodial assistant shall be assigned to such school.
be assigned.
Once the Custodial Assistant has met the requirements of Article XV,jSectfon ■4 at his/her bid location, he/she shall not be required again to fulfill such requ.rement at that locati .
At each annual bidding for custodial assistant vacancies, the position list shall clearly
provision of Article XX, Section 1 c(iv) in transferal from that school.
Section 17. A custodial assistant shall be assigned to all schools in Group II or higher that presently have no more than one person assigned.
h“ *
of purchase.
-	™	..	tqqq General Cleaner positions shall be established. The
hazardouVsiopes andfe^es' emP'°yeeS Sha" n°‘be reqUired t0 cut 9rass °n dan9®raus and
General Cleaners may group clean during the first five (5) days of any.
26
27
Article XI
Article Xll
what is going on at another employee's station.
be assigned among them according to system seniority.
oerfomad^n	and ®weeP’ng duties following night school activities are ntf	Employees desiring to be assigned such space shall register intention ।to'drive with
ne^SaddifioXeantooor’aw P	k day ShifJ CUS1°dial helper is rec'uired to perfonthe principal at the beginning of each school year for the purpose of determining such allocation,
necessary aoaitional cleaning or sweeping chores resulting from such extension school ar-tivitiw H
Sredto perfo™ suchXeesaSSi9ned minUteS' time for each raom in which ‘hey ar,Section 29a. Female cleaning employees shall not be required to use a mop of more than 16 4 reo io perrorm such duties.	'dunces dry weigbt (To be distributed to all work locations).
to the buiidin^nni!^ US «°f ^Cl? “ shal1 be provided the extension school administratosectlon 29b. Female cleaning employees in secondary schools shall not be required to remain to the building engrneer. Such hst is subject to review by the Area Manager.	to a wo?k location when no other employees is so located to hear or see what is going on at the
Section 23a. The work schedule of each nightwatchman assigned to a building shall be airanaer' so as to permit him/her to have one duty free weekend per month.	9
Section 23b. Foul weather gear and heated shelters shall be provided for watchmen.
employee’s work station.
'	On these occasions the building engineer may authorize vertical cleaning. (The’two
employees who have been assigned to work in this manner shall clean the two work stations
together).
a	kJW0'Way communicati°n devices shall be provided. If a Watchman does not have	The Administration will ensure that this information is distributed to all building engineers
“ZSSSSS?'” ”w ln ■" ”	" •»
....	Section 30 Female cleaning personnel shall not be required to clean male toilet facilities in
nrdAr^n When 016 03budget and resources permit, heating devices shall be provided in middle junior and senior high schools at times when students are in attendance and in areas of a befbaleienvironment for elevator operators. Such prowsion shall building where community activities are in progress. Where a female employee cannot dean such be based on a list of pnonties determined by the Superintendent in consultation with the Union a toilet facility on a shift, an adjustment may be made with the assignment of an available male Sertinn on	, u » u .	employee so that the needed cleaning may be accomplished.
n25;. ,No sah°o1 shal> be occupied during closed hours or on weekends by other than P *	. u • . n
D.'Stnct employeea u",ess an employee of the Division of Facilities Management and Section 31a Safety shoes shall be provided and replaced on a demonstrated need basis toati Division 'if wTeken^ooerationZ"^6 non"ernp'°yeeoccupants are under the direct control of the licensed personnel. Employees who are provided with safety shoes shall be required to wear the him/hor JS™ operations, occumng without the presence of the building engineer require on the job.
^Ttamc Mb rfi dOfanychansesinoperatingproceduresinvolving the heating or plumbina	.. . f ,,
teaoed in a	ass0Clated ^ith those systems), any valve or auxiliary so affectedPshall be Section 31b. Safety shoes shall be provided and replaced on a demonstrated need basis.for ati
auxfe^ wls?Pffd d r that C eady lndlcates what work was bone in what status the valve or Cleaning Leaders and Custodial Assistants. Cleaning Leaders and Custodial Assistants shall be auxinary was lett.	required to wear the safety shoes on the job.
Section 26. in capacity.
Plastic liners shall be available for all waste containers twenty (20) gallons or more
Section 32 In a two-person school, when one of the two employees is absent during the heating season or when central air conditioning is operating, the remaining employee shall receive a paid lunch period. He must remain in his work location during such lunch penod.
In accordance with the manuals and procedures of the Department of Facilities
deterJJtires to h SCh°01 i/SU6d °nly by pn^pa' to’those Tchoo? employed he/she Section 33 In accordance with the manuals and procedures of the Department of Facilities such™sues Kevs" so ? h «	W*16 the building engineer with a current record of Management and Services, the responsibilities of the custodial staff shall include the following.
. . rveys so issued shall be fitted with a rivet designed to orevent unauthoriysri !
P "■	Section 34a. The final daily securing of a building is the responsibility of the building engineer of
Section 28 Where narkinn farTH ■> m	! the building or the custodial employee who is designated by the building engineer to perform that
school bears to the total school staff who drive to school.	Section 34b. Minor repairs and preventive maintenance shall continue to be the responsibility of
q .	„	botb licensed engineering personnel and custodial assistants when proper tools, supplies and
uch allocation of parking spaces to custodial employees who drive to school shall equipment are provided.
28
29
Article XII
Article XI
■ott-tinn A Bus Attendants shall be eligible for pay on such days that they report for work but fn^ineen^’ daily technical direction and supervision of a school both cleaning aieir bus route does not operate. The employee shall contact the garage>tcoperated
Employees shall not be excused from reporting to the school for the afternoon run
Section 35. The School District shall provide two (2) in-service days for cleaning staff. nless specifically authorized by the Principal.
3% DTnS seasons when their services are no‘ required in the Landscape and Athleection 7. School Aides I shall be eligible for pay on such days that the bus do“ n°‘aPP®ar Sha" in d« —*	assignment to Pos^^^^
J. Ad^. «	tete, „umb„ p, p^ns tb.
a .
_	„	lection 8.	The Office of Classification and Compensation shall review and revise, as necessary,
such Sns IhTf re^6SuDepartment has auth°n>ad Positions for Regional Drived job descriptions for Bus Attendants, School Aides I, II and III.
todisS^^^^	gus Chauffeurs and Bus Attendants shall jointly and individually be responsible for
issisting non-ambulatory pupils from the bus to the school building.
Section 1.
Section 2.
ARTICLE XII	in The School District shall defend all School Aides I, II, III, Bus Attendants and Bus
»0RK1TOC0N0m0NS.SCH00LA,0ESAN0BUSATTEN0A»TS
School Aides I, II and III shall not substitute as professional teachers	lescriptions or applicable law and hold such employees harmless in the event of a j
^termination of damages against them.
will haveavailableSto^hemaprotectiv^Csmoc^ls.eSatt,1e WidenerSC^°°lanC1 ^peC'al Class ^enterS5ection 11. Bus Attendants shall be required to attend up to a maximum
Bus Attendants. AM and PM. shall be posted at ths time
Aide IH wfflbe absent afpn thT ITr3S At6” fiven t0 the Princ'Pal ‘hat a School Aide II or School bids-
shall be in pay status from the beginning of such scheduled time.
School Aides shall be given a 15 minute break in the morning and afternoon. [	Bus Attendants assigned to cab routes wi|, continue to report to the first stop each
schedule shall	bVeakTnlh^morning aSemoon^ " SCh°01 °n " fU"	wiH be^madeto pXp^Xb attendant within the city limits
to be transported to the school for the afternoon shift.
Section 5a.
Section 5b.
30
31
Article XIII
Article X
amcnthi h • E,ffeCtivtoP0nratificati0n0fthisA9reement’the School District shall pay $64.a3ear jOr fleet meChanlCS	. , , .
a monthly basis to each Bus Attendant in active service, to defray their commuting expenses.'.	Uniforms and foul weather gear shall be provided to Dover Training Instructors.
ARTICLE XIII	Section 4 Copies of the purchase contract for uniforms shall be made available to the Union.
WORKING CONDITIONS - TRANSPORTATION
Section 1a Floor m k • • .h t	Section 5. Winter work boots and jackets shall be provided and replaced on a demonstrated need
f '	Mechanics in the Transportation Department shall receive replacenbasis to all fleet mechanics.
nwnJ? th Se nepeasarytools broken, stolen, or consumed by use while working on School Disl Employees who are provided with such attire shall be required to wear them. ST1 Pmce ’ The. °°!s purchased shal1 be °ftbe Quality and standard comparable to eit.	Jk.w .
Craftsman or Snap-on, but in no event of a lesser quality than that of the tools to be replaced.Section 6 Bus Chauffeurs transporting non-ambulatory, orthopedically handicapped children in
„„ k .	.	Excess of 100 pounds, where mechanical assistance is not provided, may request an evaluation o
in their n F eet Mecbanlcs ln the Transportation Department shall be held responsible for all time advisability of carrying the child. This evaluation shall give proper consideration to the physica Office nt th MIOn’ An 'n,v.entory of Mechanics' tools and shop tools shall be maintained in Characteristics of the chauffeurs and the child as well as all other pertinent information. A physical nmnlenV^h^ll39^ °f Maintenance- Replacement of any tools lost as a result of emplofoeranist authorized by the Special Education administrator in the appropnate cluster shall make foe romoarabTetarra^m6 resp°nsiblllty of the employee and must be of the quality and stand£vaiuation and shall submit a recommendation to the Administrator in charge of Transportation comparable to Craftsman or Snap-on.	(5) working days after the reqUest by the chauffeur.
^£?h1b'i <nO?e..?h001 District shal1 provide each Fleet Mechanic, employed as!	The Superintendent or his/her designee in consultation with foe principal of the school
detemtined bv h d h'9h qUa,-ity metric tools' The schedule of distribution will involved shall exercise one (1) of the following options within five (5) working days after receipt of for^fo ZW' ?? acc°Tphshed a‘ rate of no less than fifty percent (50% therapist's recommendation:
foe work force m foe first year of the contract and fifty percent (50%) of the work force in the seco year.
A.
B.
C.
D.
Equip the bus with mechanical assistance.
Assign the child to home study.
Instruct the chauffeur to carry the child.
Assign the child to a bus having mechanical assistance.
2 o cl e^nICS ° prior t0 SePtember 1,1999 were classified and paid at Pay Gii 2448 Thfay SthP 2412 ^nder the ADVANTAGE system) shall be reclassified/paid at Pay Sl> mephani“ P'acement in Pay Step 2448 shall be accomplished so as to grant i' 'n^X . J Pay ?.eaohm^chan'cempl0yed0nSePtember1’1999- However, mechanics may	.	.
?a“d at a ®tep °-e DPay Progression under the ADVANTAGE system) in the new Pay Step thalSection 7 When the Administrator in charge of Transportation determines that there is an adequate -200^40^™/ Pr°9resslon on wh,ch they were Placed Prior to the effective date of the Sparking space for buses available and the layover time is one (1) hour or less the bus chauffeur - 2003 Agreement.	pa™	|ocation |f the |ayover time is more than one (1) hour, the bus chauffeur shall
Serffon q Tho c.^i n- . • . - „	.	be scheduled to return to the nearest operating location.
istr'°t shal1 supply unlforms and f°u! weather gear to Bus and Tra	. _
Chauffeurs end Warehouse Tnjck Helpers who are classified as either 10-month or 12-mon Section 8 No complaint against a bus or truck chauffeur shall be placed in the chauffeur's file ol11nifom1°7le„s.and re9ulations governing the issuance and replacema unless it contains in writing the following information and the employee and the Union have been f	? and Truck Chauffeurs as described above shall be provided one ('notified-
dlrlforrnaad f°u! weatber gear within 90 days after date of employment or 30 days aft0 tdh‘®	? indicated on the purchase order issued by the Purchasing Department ar,
Th ad®monstrated ,need basls- Gloves and overalls shall be provided to Garage Servic
persons. The full cost of such uniforms shall be bome by the School District.
basis shall ha nmvXrt t* thf«r partl?f unlforms beln9 supplied on a demonstrated nee th» Lb provided to the chauffeur within 30 days of the inspection provided the uniform isi uniforms arA n'fJ>rmtShCaTedL.'n ‘?e Transportation Department. If the required uniform or parts o uniforms are not in the stock referred to above, the uniforms or parts of uniform indicated bv thi inspection shall be provided not more than 30 days after date of delivery indicated on the purchas! order issued by the Purchasing Department. The above provisions shall also apply to foul weathe: as
A. B. C. D. E. F.
A description of the allegation.
The approximate time of day the incident occurred.
The approximate location where the incident took place.
An identification of the person making the complaint.
The vehicle must be identified, if applicable. Driving conditions existing when the incident occurred, if applicable.
The Union shall provide representation within 48 hours of such notice or suchi later time the discussion is scheduled by the Administrator or supervisor. The employee shall be notified
32
33
Articles XIV, XV
Article'!
when such complaint is placed in his/her file.
Th,c oo »• k ii »	,	.	action 15	An absence phone log must be maintained by the Supervisor or the Dispatcher
received. h * Sha nOt prec ude the nght of management to investigate any cornu each garage location. It should contain the following information.
S’’’ V ♦ <ln each„Pony ExPress tnjck, an aisle space of twenty (20) inches shall be cl( h) defined and kept free of all materials in order that the chauffeur will have free access to all	m
Packages earned on such truck shall be no larger than the appropriate bins in such truck, i	d j
®e®H°n N° Po"yjExPress track shall be required to transport more film than ca» n earned in the space provided for it	T'
g)
Date call is received.
Time call is received.
Name of Chauffeur.
Selection number.
Nature of the absence.
Name of person reporting the absence. Signature of Supervisor if Dispatcher.
K Wh®na 2 1/2 t02 or lar9er size delivery van is operated, assistance shaLction 16 Bus Chauffeurs and truck chauffeurs with suspended licenses will not be parking JoXgh Order assist d4Sd to work unW their credentiais are in piace.
io	ku.. u	lection 17	At the time of renewal, The School District shall pay, for each full-time and part-
bv School A T	y»kr heavy matenal is scheduled to be transported on trucks operL bus chauffeur and fleet mechanic the cost of attaining a commercial drivers’ license necessary
assfstance to load o?uXd the fruck6™^ Sha" Pr°V'de additional Personnel or mechaXeoperation of a school bus which is over and above that associated with maintaining a regular ’ennsylvania drivers' license.
?f H " 13a' Those transportation and maintenance employees who are regularly assid,	ARTICLE XIV
,	dnvers shall.be issued two pairs of safety shoes. Safety shoes shall be replaced	WORKING CONDITIONS - BUILDING INSPECTORS
a demonstrated need basis when presented by the employee to his supervisor for approval. ;
o c <. l. I, i.	lection 1 On all iobs scheduled for weekends and holidays when the Director of Design and
an	is	«»ll be us«..
— .	,	icnartnr "shall be assian@d to work and shall b© paid as provided herein.
Employees who are provided with safety shoes shall be required to wear th'
lection 2b. On all alteration work when, in the opinion of the Director, construction operations
The	n- ■ •	U	,	.quire the presence of a Building Construction Inspector, one shall be so assigned and shall be
to pony drivers and token drivers D,v,s,on sha" ,ssue foul weather 9ea>- Piece rain su£id as provided herein.
on the job.
Section 13c.
iffl, j	....	.	lection 3 Safetv shoes shall be provided and replaced on a demonstrated need basis for Building
safety shoes and rai^gea^ aV® ab e’eXtfa Part't|me drivers and MH part-time drivers will rece^pectors. Building Inspectors shall be required to wear the safety shoes on the job.
ARTICLE XV WAGES AND HOURS OF WORK
Salaries shall be adjusted in the amounts and on the dates listed below.
Except as otherwise specified in this agreement, across the board increases shall be
Section 13d. Drivers of handicapped routes, MH Drivers, Pony Drivers, Token Drivers, servi people, special status dnvers, and extra part-time drivers will be supplied safety belts. /ages Saction 13e. Transportation Instructors shall be issued two (2) blazers, two (2) pairs of pani a two (2) short sleeve and two (2) long sleeve shirts, one pair of safety shoes and foul weather ge|eCt °n 1 including work gloves and overalls.
lection 1a.
Section 14. A security officer shall be assigned to accompany each token truck operated jranted aS follows: the Transportation Department.
January 3,2000 - 3%
34
35
Article j
Article XV
October 15,2000 - 3%
September 10, 2001 - 2%
September 9, 2002 - 3%
Section 1b. The following classifications of Employees shall not receive the across increase-effective January 3, 2000:
Effective the first pay period in December, 2001 a one time $500 bonus payment shall be lid to five hour General Cleaners (formerly known as Custodial Aides) who as of September 1, 101 meet the following criteria: the bi
1.	no current letters of reprimand in their personnel file;
Building Engineers
Custodial Aides
Housekeepers
Building Construction Inspectors II
2.	no Step III attendance letter in their personnel file;
3.	no disciplinary action taken as a result of hearing(s) in their personnel file.
Section 1c. Building Engineer Job Classification and Salary Equalization
action 1e. Building Construction Inspectors II
2000 Effectivf JanuaT? oTnn ml iTT® -‘T across ‘he b°ard ‘ncrease^ffective Januar|	classification of Building Construction Inspectors II shall be eliminated. All incumbents
as followsr	J 3’ 2°°0' * 11 classificatlons of Bu,ld,n9 Engineers shall be consolida^,, retain their exjSting rate of pay. Employees hired after September 1,1999 and classified as
uilding Construction Inspectors shall be paid at Pay Step 107.
Current grades 4 5 and a k! conso!!ba!T in‘° a new Gr°up 1 (118 pay step); r Building construction Inspectors II reclassified at Pay Step 107 shall not receive the across Current grades 7and 8sh^heennTiTlr TT ° ® T " (121 pay step): e board increase in year one or year three of the 1999 - 2003 Agreement, but shall receive the Current grades 9 To> and iI	T GroUp (2448 pay step):	the board increases in years two and four.
current graaes y, w and 11 shall be consolidated into a new Group IV (100 pay step).
ronRniiHatinn n . w r= •	-x-	s Building Construction Inspectors II hired prior to September 1,1999 and reclassified at Pay
compensation aTlstmente B “ 9 En9,neer p0srtl0ns shal1 be accompanied by the follow^ 107shaHnot receive the across the board increase in year one or year three of the 1999-2003 ‘	greement, but shall receive the across the board increases in years two and four. Such
RuiHinn Pnninaare* frvtm •	• u i -c x-	tidIovsss shall also receive, in addition to the across the board increases in October 2000 and
o 7 n? Eng,nee^ from lower j°b classifications shall move from their existing pay graXmhar pno2 bonuses as follows-and step (now known as Pay Step and Pay Progression under the ADVANTAGE system) to the riP b 2002' bOnUSeS aS f°' °
b^MlX^ncreTse AnvTiT ^se!* apProxir"a‘es but does not exceed a $2,0;	$500.00 lump sum payment on January 1,2000
$2,000 sh2!Tbe made up"by e^ne-time bTnuTXlt	53,3,7	* '®SS	$500-00 lump sum payment °n September 1°’ 2°°1
Section 1d. Cleaning Personnel
action 1f. Maintenance Mechanics
Employees classified as rusrndiai	l- .	Maintenance Mechanics subject to craft consolidation shall not receive across the board
nmrm fle?t'VtSe? e.nnnrF',1999’ EmP|oyees classified as Custodial Aides, and Housekeepe rX™FrfBmber Sha be reclassified as 5-hour and 8-hour General Cleaners. Five-ho Efaht hLur r? be Pa'btep t32 at their CUITent pay Pro9ression and increment dat Eight-hour General Cleaners shall be pa,d at Step 133 at the same pay progression and incremd* date which they held at Pay Grade/Step 146.	“
..„ IT !Tht General Cleaner position shall be paid at a rate of $12.50 an hour. No sh^ differential shall apply.
।	January 3,2000 - $1.00/hour
•	January 1,2001 - $1.00/hour
I	December 3,2001 - $500.00 lump sum
•	October 21, 2002 - $.50/hour
July 14, 2003 - $.75/hour
' As part of this consolidation, Mechanics who were classified as “A” mechanics prior to the rtification of the 1999-2003 Agreement shall be paid at Step 2442; in addition Mechanics who were
36
37
Article XV
------------- —-______________________________________________________________Articlf___________________________________
classified as “B” mechanics shall be paid at Step 2438.	shift sha,| be 3;Oo p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
Section 1g. Stock Clerks	f Saturday and Sunday shall be regularly scheduled days off for employees in the
t.	o , u	tenance Department and work on such days shall be governed by the overtime provisions of
Pr__.	। Eftec*'ve September 13, 1999, stock clerks will be reclassified as folloeXV
Employees classified/paid as Warehouse Helpers (Step 2430) and Stock Clerk I (Step 2<
sVo	aS S10Ck,C!e* 11 <SteP 2437>- The placement of these Employees inhering and Cleaning
S.?.p(2437)sba be acc°mPl|shed so as to grant an increase in pay to each person emplT--------3	,
hlh°|USe nHe Per °r Sn Ck Clerk 1 pnor t0 SePtember 1,1999. However, reclassified Errjon 6a Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Eight (8) hour day shift engineenng ed at i3 P!,y Pra9ression ln the new Step that is lower than the Pay Progresyeaning personnel shall be scheduled for the regular work day of eight (8) continuous hours which they were placed pnor to the reclassification.	ti between 6’00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. This continuous eight (8) hour penod shall be
_ ..	..	_	Tinted only by an unpaid duty free lunch period of one-half (1/2) hour which shall not be
Section 1h. Transportation	trued as part of the eight (8) hour regular work day. Saturday and Sunday shall be regularly
duled daPs Off for Engineering and cleaning employees assigned to regular day shift positions
•„ «, -r addlt'on the across the board increases set forth above, all Employework on such days shall be governed by the overtime provisions of Article XV.
^'n tee Transportation Department, and all Bus Attendants and School Aides shall, W	„ 11K
L^-Op temp sum bonus provided that they satisfy the agreed upon performance-based criLn 6b. Building Engineers shall work a basic forty (40) hour week, but shall be required to period^inDecember 200^mbef 1 ’ 2°°1' Th'S b°nUS ShaH b<3 payable no later tean the first(all additional hours made necessary by:
Section 2.
Section 3.
Appendix B sets forth annual salaries for each Pay Progression of each Pay-
The scheduling of the school day (one-half (%) hour for lunch except as provided in Section 14 of this Article), Flag duties, if there are no custodial assistants.
, At any time after the ratification of this Agreement, if Local 1201 requests th‘-	. ... c
members of the bargaining unit who are classified as 10 month Employees be paid over 12 4 All Building Engineers working such additional hours shall be compensated therefor as set the School Distnct shall implement this payment schedule.	, jn the applicable Sections of this Article XV.
Section 4. Except for trainees, other employees in the bargaining unit who are required totlon 6c. Each full-time custodial employee shall have one-half (/2) hour of his/her day set ahLnrZSnrCatlOn m£”LPay 9radeS above their PelTnanent classification on account^ for an unpaid duty free lunch, the time to be determined by the Area Manager When by the hinhnr 1	■?,l? the h'9h,er9rade shall, after seven (7) calendar days' continuous senfe of his/her work assignment as specified by the Regional Manager or in the .event of an
the higher classification, excluding vacation replacement for the employee in the irqency a full-time custodial employee works all or the major portion of his/her scheduled lunch classificetion, be paid at the rate of the higher classification during such further period of serviced he shall be paid for the full period. Each night watchman shall have a daily °n^'f (^) b°ar retroactive to the first day of such service.	ajd |unch perjod. All other custodial employees shall have a one-half (/2) hour daily unpaid duty
Hours of Work	lunch.
.	tion 6d. Five (5) hour General Cleaners may be scheduled to a continuous five (5) hour shift
Maintenance	reen 6.Q0 AM _^d 10:30 pM Eight-hour General Cleaners assigned to the_s®cond sh'ft sbaN
Sections ah ■ M ... „	.	icheduled to a regular workday of eight (8) continuous hours between 1:00 PM and 10.30 PM.
Sehct'°" ; ? . ght (8) hour day shlft employees in the Maintenance Department shi	... . h , ,hp„
scheduied for their regular work day of eight (8) continuous hours sometime between the hortion 6e.	Management may create a third shift subject to the conditions ouUmed below when
6.00 a.m. to 6.00 p.m. This continuous eight (8) hour period shall be interrupted only by an uiuse of buildings makes proper cleaning impractical during the first or second shift. PiX Pe?°d °f J°nThalf (%) hour which tench period shall not be construed as part >	_ „ u
wHh th! ??Ur regu'ar ™ork day' The schedule of the employees may be changed after consult 1 The first and second shifts in such facilities shall be staffed so as emnlnvtp^haii Ja™ary 1 and Ju|y 1 of each year. Prior to such schedule chiinuity of services, employees shall select their shift assignments in accordance with seniority by classification teetr crafts.	2 The hours of work for all third shift Employees sha,
A u . P	iwork week shall start Monday at 10:30 p.m. and end on Satun,
Section 5b. Asbestos workers shall work a Monday through Friday work schedule. Their re{.	■
1
38
39
Articled
Article XV
3. Management intends to utilize a third shift in school year 1999-2000 at Bedr|e yv
Franklin High School, Northeast High School and George Washington High School. ManajP fhSLr®®s,thaf0Vfr thlC0UJle of the (19"-2003) agreement a third shift shall not be instituted iLion 9b	Employees in the duplicating and reproduction services in the Administration Building
than 23 schools without the mutual agreement of Local 1201.	^Audio-Visual Department shall observe the normal work schedule for employees in the
Section 6f. Schedules for cleaning Employees may be changed four (4) times per yearzT1’n'Strat'On Buildin9'
thirty (30) days written notice to the Union and to the affected Employees.	insoortation/School Aides/Bus Attendants
The above noted Employees shall be assigned to day shift work hours during the Christmas, L.ion 10a The work week for School Aides HI at the Widener School and at Special Class changeshn ractS except dunng tbe summer months when activities in the building make'ntere shall be thirty-two and one-half (32 7z) hours per week, six and one-half (6 7z) hours per es imprac rca.	mjnutes for lunch.
PT°n builbin9 there shal1 be no change in the hours scheduled forLtion 10b The work week for School Aides I and School Aides II assigned to secondary schools Employees. They will continue to be assigned in accordance with Article XV, Section 6a. be five (35) hours per week, seven (7) hours per day, with a lunch period to be the same ibth that nrevailino in the local school, provided, however, that no lunch period shall be less continuous houraTetweerT^OAM and IO^'pm.30"6^^ ‘° *	°f a" uninterrupted thirty (30) minute period, nor more than one (1) hour.
, ,.	... .	ction 10c The starting time for each School Aide III at the Widener School and Special Class
8h=‘‘on 6k' wTh admln's!!atl0n shal1'ln consultation with the Union, evaluate the feasib Lters and each School Aide II at secondary schools shall be listed by the school of assignment I9 tl 'n9\on a P',m-t0 8:00 p-m- cleaning schedule't0 a 2:00 P-m- to ™°dsuchliXShall be made ava able to the Union. The starting time may be changed to meet the schedule. Where administratively possible, such change shall be made.	ique needs of the school program but such change shall not result in a change in the employee's
Elevator Operators
ily hours.
ictlon 10d. Bus Attendants will be employed on split shifts for a total of twenty-five (25) hours in
Section 7. School elevator operators shall be scheduled for the regular work day of sever^ workweek'
=n^nn^hJ^C?/?HU0US h°T !°Tatinle between 6:00 a-m-and 6:00 P-". This continuous sl-tion 10e The starting time for Bus Attendants shall be ten (10) minutes prior to the first stop and one-half (7 %) hour penod shall be interrupted only by an unpaid duty free lunch period o&s on whfch they sen/e half (%) hour which shall not be construed as part of the seven and one-half (7 %) hour regular °	y
ay'	ictlon 10f. Each night watchman shall have a daily one-half (7a) hour unpaid lunch period. All
Building Inspectors	ler custodial employees shall have a one-half (7a) hour daily unpaid duty free lunch.
,	....	.	iction 10a. Bus Chauffeurs who are employed on a full day basis when regular school is in
_ _ . n, 8‘ Buildln9 Inspectors shall be scheduled for a regular work day from 7:00 a.m. tok<.ion shall" continue to work a forty (40) hour work week exclusive of one (1) hour per day duty p.m. including an unpaid duty free lunch period one-half (%) hour.	*s,° nctriS EvXy Xrt shall be made to avoid altering the scheduled lunch period.
„ . .	.... .	.„pr if such alteration takes place, the chauffeur's duty free unpaid lunch period shall be
Print Shop/Warehouse	^ed gn amount of time equa| t0 the time by which the lunch period was altered and such
Section9a. All eight (8) hour day shift empioyees in the Warehouse. Warehouse Senzices^ °f	t0
Print Shop Departments shall be scheduled for their regular work day of eight (8) continuous H sometime between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. This continuous eight (8) hour period sl be interrupted only by an unpaid duty free lunch period of one-half (7z) hour which lunch period si not be construed as part of the eight (8) hour regular work day. The schedule of an employee s not be changed without reasonable notice.	!
Saturday and Sunday shall be regularly scheduled days off for employees in-Pnnt Shop Departments and work on such days shall be governed by the overtime provision
40
41

Article XV
Article
Section lOh. Bus Chauffeurs who are employed on a full day basis when regular school is ■	]n the 6vent an employee is required to work on both the first and second day of
H.TrnUe h®retofore t0 work a forty(40) hour work week exclusive of one-l'e^ schedu|ed	(2) days off, he shall be paid at the rate of double time for such time as he
nour per day duty free lunch.	on	day of such schedu)ed (2) days off.
SectionJOi. Unless otherwise indicated on the bid sheet for a route, drivers on pony e>-tj 17 There sha|| be n0 pyramiding of overtime rates under any section of this Article XV. routes shall be scheduled for their regular work day from 7:00a.m. to 3:30 p.m. including an r'ct On1'- ne	py a
duty free lunch penod of one-half (%) hour.	Jction 18 An emp|oyee ca||ed to work on other than regular work hours shall be guaranteed
M	.	. ,. .	.	feast two (2) hours work or pay in lieu thereof for any period less than two (2) hours: for (4) hours
k nn^fhAr0 empl°i^e ln..the bar9alnin9 Wl11 be scheduled for a split lunch period u k or pay n |ieu thereof for any period more than two (2) hours and less than four (4) hours; six there <s no other reasonable alternative available.	) ho "rework or pay in lieu thereof for any period more than four (4) hours less than six (6) hours.
«e«n™?ihi2' ™ theif re?ular Work Wwek iS forty (40)-hours’ building en9ineers shal1 Action 18a. An employee who is required to work on a day or part of a day on which the schools responsible at all times for the care and proper operation of the buildings to which the-*Closed because of inclement weather shall be paid his/her regular salary for such day and shall ^^1 h" eSS sp®Glfically relI®ved tbereof by wntten instructions from the Regional Man-® ^ne-half (%) personal leave day if he or she works up to four (4) hours, or a full personal AdditionalI houis work in any work week, required of building engineers by emergencies or wr®® d jf h or she works from four (4) to eight (8) hours. However, this provision shall not apply approval of the Regional Manager, shall be deemed overtime hours and shall be paid in accord day ri„
with the applicable provisions of this Article XV.	the case of eariy dlsmlssals’
lUHb.M	.	.......	■	,	For the first two (2) such inclement weather days in any school year, those who are
Section 13, In order to permit building engineers who also have one or more firemen ass -heduted to report to work shall accrue personal leave; for the next two (2) days, those who are to then- building, to work a regular work week of forty (40) hours, the Administration shall antiheau(ed t0 report wln receive straight time. Thereafter, personal leave will be given.
regular staggered starting and finishing times, consistent with the proper operation of the builc	H
<bUl^mdl.n0 later ?an 6?° p,n?’ Ihe fir®men sha" report at an earlier hour than heretofore £	A)) such persOnal days earned for inclement weather, up to a maximum of five (5), may be
!Pdy rim hnn7^9ULar WH*i^ier ’	b“"<*n9 engineers shall also be scheduled to work a during thaPca|endar year, in addition to his/her regular three (3) personal leave days, at the
’°l!y (4°> bour Week' a"d sballufira ?he plant as re9ulred for ‘hat Portion of the school day	9f employee’s manager whose approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Any
which the fireman is not in the building.	dement weather personal leave days not used during the year will be banked and paid under
z— * j" ।	. l	,	irrent policy, i.e., paid at the employee’s rate of pay at time of termination.
Section 14. Custodial employees shall be required to punch the time clock at their work loca upon arriving for work, leaving work and when leaving and returning to the work location all scheduled lunch period or at any other time when he/she is scheduled to be bn duty.
|■ in the case of an early dismissal because of inclement weather, the employees shall be paid ■aight time for all hours worked between the closing of school and the time he/she is dismissed, addition to his/her regular day's pay. All hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours shall be paid time and a half the employee’s regular hourly rate. Such pay shall be included in the employee s
Overtime
Section 15a.
. „.	. ..	, .	,,	sxt overtime paycheck.
All hours worked in any one week in excess of forty (40) or on any one c=
excess of eight (8) or, by day shift employees, before 6:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. shall be pal The majn Building Engineer is the person scheduled to report to work in each facility. Upon one and one-half (1 %) times his/her regular hourly rate provided that, in any week in whicioorting t0 work that person will call the Dispatcher for further instructions as to reporting employee has an unexcused absence, the employee shall be paid one and one-half times h s£llirements
regular hourly rate only for those hours worked in excess of forty (40) for that week. M
_	action 18b. An employees who is not required to work on a day the schools are closed because
Section 15b.	All hours worked on a scheduled holiday shall be paid at one and one-half (fj'jnc|ement weather shall receive his regular salary for such day. Such day not worked shall be
times the employee's regular hourly rate in addition to holiday pay for which the employee is elig^iuded as time worked for purposes of computing time and one-half after forty (40) hours in any .	,	. .,	,	eek in which such day may occur.
Section 16. An employee required to work on the first day of his/her scheduled two (2) da®
shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all time worked on such day.	betion 18c. This Section (Section 18,18a-c) shall not apply to emergency closings ordered by
A ,	tvernmenta’l authorities. The Board of Education shall not be considered a governmental authority
„ . „.	,^n employee required to work on the second day of his/her scheduled two (2) (£ the purposes of this Section of Article XV.
off shall be paid at a rate of time and one-half for all time worked on such day.	'
42
43
Art icl
Article XVI
Overtime Distribution
Section 19a. All overtime shall be distributed equitably among employees qualified to ?lht Differential
the work, within each classification, at a given work location. Such distribution 21 Exceot as otheiwise provided in this Agreement, the following night differentials shall accomplished in a manner to be determined by the operating head of each depart^ txceP’a®0 p
consultation with the Union. Overtime on bus and truck routes shall be assigned in accords--. ‘
provisions of Article XXI of this Agreement. Any employees who has been suspended sf' Effective October 30 1995, any employees on a shift scheduled to begin at 1:00 PM suech9s^eso0enPsaionC,Pate the distnbution of overtime for a period of six (6) months from the „| reCeive a differential of $.30 p’erhour.
ouvil ouofJcll&iUn.
Section 19h ThA nfftoo of«, n ♦ ■ m	„	Effective October 30,1995, any employees on a shift scheduled to begin at 2:00 PM
shnwinn dictrihuHo f. h CenlraLMalntenance Division shall maintain, for each receive a differential of $.40 per hour.
showing distnbution of overtime worked by employees and shall make these lists avails:
inspection by the shop stewards and other union officials upon their request.	5-’	Effective October 30,1995, any employees on a shift scheduled to begin at 3:00 PM
..	. „ .	thereafter shall receive a differential of $.50 per hour.
Section 19c. Overtime and Semonty - The current provision of one seniority list fcr
maintenance craft will remain. Regional and Central Maintenance will remain on one list for s*tinn 22 Niaht Watchmen, since they are employed only at night, shall not be eligible for night purposes including overtime distribution.	/differential. They shall, however, be eligible for all other benefits provided in this Agreement.
Inorder to ensure effective use of manpower, overtime will be offered to indil	ARTICLE XVI
mechanics in seniority order within each craft in increments totaling twenty (20) hours, regaf	HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
of locations or number of work orders involved. Twenty (20) hours may be exceeded whi-
ithf dUn?9 0V®rti.r™5 shift- Employees shall remain at the top of the se-.. on 1 The option of coverage for Blue Cross Hospitalization, Major Medical Insurance and nvArtiml,h3 copeJlon of a*laast sixteen (16) hours of overtime. A mechanic who de,dical suroical insurance shall no longer be available to Employees in the bargaining unit. The aHhebottom of the seninX'lk	n3me iS reaChed °n *he Seni°rity list sha" be tool District shall continue to pay 100% of the premium cost for the medical insurance coverage
at uic uviiuiii ui uic benioniy nsia	..
m existing HMD s .
^0|l'^°;>, Pl Superintendent reserves the right to adjust or stagger work schedul Anv employees or employee's dependent with exceptional medical problems will be 01 f for^(40) hou.r1_,re9^ar week for Assistant Engineers and firemen with theLitted to remain in their existing medical plans until their exceptional problem no longer exists, expenditure of overtime possible. To this end, the following precepts shall apply:	Keir current dXr is a member of an existing HMO network. This condition will be
a.
b.
c.
d.
In buildings which have two firemen, the second firemen's regu Jessed annually by the Administration.
(weather permitting) shall end no later than 6:00 p.m.	^[on 1a Part Time Bus chauffeurs, Five-Hour General Cleaners and Bus Attendants hired
.	.	,	.	fare October 9 1995 may select medical insurance from existing HMOs forthemselves and their
ki buildings referred to in sub-paragraph a. above which havelib|e deoendents Such coverage is provided at no cost to the employees.
Engineers, one Engineer's regular day (weather permitting) shall end noR aePenaenls- oucn UOVB":,a
than 6:00 p.m.	t	Part Tjme Bus chauffeurSi Five-Hour General Cleaners and Bus Attendants hired
. .	..	.	.	:pr October 9 1995 shall be eligible to select coverage from available HMOs for themselves and
Enotow nr h^h11^ ?h'n sub’para9raPh a- above with one fireman oitir qua|ified dependent children only.
Engineer or both, weather conditions may require either to work beyondf "
regular day.	i	Effective September 1, 2000, every part-time employee who was hired between
in	h . nj.	Stober 1 1995 and August 31,1999 will receive spousal coverage, if his/her spouse is otherwise
whnn	hn? b(u,ldln9 engineer and a fireman are assigLib|e /or C0Verage in a non-School District Plan.
when one is absent and relief cannot be provided, the other shall woj ®
full school day.	J	On|y Emp|oyees wh0 have successfully completed their 180 day probationary period
. Apprentices wili be permitted, in accordance with this Article XV, Section J1 be eligible f°r ‘he 3b°Ve C0VerageS-
share in overtime distnbution beginning with the fourth year of their apprenticeship. |ction 7a Upon employment, an employee, irrespective of sex, shall be permitted to obtain
44
45
Article
Article XVI
more than ninety ('901 dav«s	5,™lboul ™edicaf examination; an employee in sen-timber of employees at a work location requesting leave exceeds 10% and the employee's leave
medical examination safiqfartnrv't^ th • aln sucb covera9e at any other time must undeill interfere with the operations, the Human Resources Division shall determine whether the leave School District shall contini tnn ° t nno/13 < Th!'CB carr'er’ lbe cost °f which he must pay rail be denied to the employee or employees last filing such requests, provided, however, that if pay uu /o of the premium cost of such life insurance. ich employee or employees request the leave because of an emergency, the leave shall be
Coverage under the Life Insurance Plan No. 5 shall permit an emolovee to sIa-^'116'1 Insurance coverage in the amount of $2,000 or coverage in the foiling amountoT *
Attendance at the commencement of relatives and friends, absence in connection with the
Base Salary	Amount
Under $1,500	$ 3,438
1,500 to 2,999.99	5,000
3,000 to 3,999.99	7,500
4,000 to 4,999.99	8,750
5,000 to 5,999.99	10,000
6,000 to 6,999.99	11,250
7,000 to 7,999,99	12,500
8,000 to 8,999.99	13,750
9,000 to 9,999.99	15,000
10,000 to 10,999.99	16,250
11,000 to 11,999.99	17,500
12,000 to 12,999.99	18,750
13,000 to 13,999.99	20,000
14,000 to 14,999.99	21,250
15,000 to 15,999.99	22,500
16,000 to 16,999.99	23,750
17,000 and over	25,000
sath or funeral of distant relatives and friends, or in connection with the marriages of relatives or ends, and appearances in court in a case In which the employee is plaintiff or defendant shall be sated solely as personal leaves.
The Human Resources Division shall also determine whether or not the request for personal ave which has the effect of extending the school holidays or beginning the summer vacation earlier ’ extending it later shall under most unusual circumstances, be granted.
The present practice shall be continued so that upon termination of service, an employee hose services were not terminated for intentional misconduct shall be entitled to receive smpensation for 100% of accumulated unused personal leave days. The value of a personal leave ay for ten-month employees for such payment shall be one-two hundredth (1/200) of the annual alary such an employee is receiving and the value of a leave day for such payment of a twelve-onth employee shall be one-two hundred and fortieth (1/240) of the annual salary such employee receiving.
ection 3d. For the purpose of leaves of absence on account of death of a relative of an ■nployee covered by this Agreement, the phrase "immediate family" in Administrative Bulletin #12 tall se deemed to include the employee's father-in-law and mother-in-law.
and who ha'vo	^or emPl°yees who retire after September 1, 'action 3e. Upon such designation, long-term substitutes shall be eligible to receive the same
$2,000	participating in the Life Insurance program shall be increased from $1,0jsurance rights and leave provisions as regularly appointed employees.
Section aii __________________*	, ..	,, ,	action 4. The Health and Accident Insurance coverage provided to employees covered by this
othe teaves reouinnTXTnJre9“labo"s and bulletlns concerning sick leave, personal leavegreement shall not be changed except as follows: other leaves requmng pnor approval shall remain in effect during the term of this Agreement
Section 3b Part-time hue rh rr h	An individual shall have the opportunity to enroll in a weekly indemnity program which would
Accident Insurance coveraae o aufTeurs sba a so be eli9ible to participate in the Health rovide a uniform benefit duration with various waiting periods based on accumulated sick leave.
g program.	Effective January 1,1996 the plan shall be as follows:
Section 3c. Employees shall be granted three (3) days leave each year without loss of sals J nemnnf |erSOna business w.hlch 03,1,101 be conveniently scheduled on other than work days an}-summpr ?enCleTrequlnn9 immediale attention. Extension of school holidays or beghninr’ summer vacation earlier or extending it later shall not be deemed personal leave and mav no 'n m°St u,nusual circumstances as hereinafter provided. Application for such Ie shall be made upon a form to be furnished by the Superintendent.
dav n, «, lf "°‘ m°re lban 10% employees in a work location request leave for a tfs wfth to numbe'’ requesting leave exceeds 10% but the granting of such leave will not intel ith the operation, the employee shall have the right to take such leave. In the event that!
46
47
Art ici
Article XVI
			
Accumulated Sick Leave	Waiting Period	Percentage of Premium Paid by the School District	Benefit iluation, will be subject to termination, involuntary change of work classification, loss of pay, Duration oluntary use or loss of sick leave or involuntary retirement for disability or who is refused a motional appointment for which he/she is otherwise eligible, except in matters of Workmen s
Less than 10 days	7	25%	1	inpensation such evaluation shall be submitted for determination to a memoer ot a panet 52 weeks of )erts IP the appropriate specialty who have been named by the Philadelphia County Medical benefit paymer.L=iety, or the Philadelphia College of Surgeons and Physicians, or the Pennsylvania Osteopathic
10 but less than 30	6	25%	
30 but less than 60	5	65%	dical Associations, after the individui;
60 but less than 90	4	100%	has utilized his/hij	firemen AND OILERS, LOCAL 1201 HEALTH AND WELFARE FUND accumulated sid| -	CREATION OF TRUST FUND
90 but less than 120	3	100%	
120 but less than 150	2	100%	leave plus waitill:cHon 7 The Trust Fund designated and known as the "Firemen and Oilers, Local 1201 period.	a|th and we|fare Fund" established by the National Conference of Firemen and Oilers, AFL-CIO, al 1201 shall be continued.
150 but less than 180	1	100%	
Over 180	0	100%	
For Employees newly hired within the three (3) years immediately prior to ef«°" 7aW- Payments shall be made for each employee in the bargaining unit by the Board to September 1 when the employee’s Health and Accident Insurance category is set, the 'TnJSt Fund in accordance wlth the schedule below.
percentage of premium paid by the School District will be as follows:
Accumulated	Waiting	Percentage	Benefit Date Sick Leave	Period	of Premium Paid by	Duration 		 the School District				Annual	10 Month Employees 20 bi-weekly pay periods	12 Month Employees 25 bi-weekly pay periods	12 Month Employees 26th biweekly pay period
Less than 10 days	7	50%	52 weeks of benefit payments _____				
10 but less than 30	6	50%					
30 but less than 60	5	65%		$1,700.00	$85.00	$65.38	$65.50
			utilized his/her 39/01/00	$1,700.00	$85.00	$65.38	$65.50
			accumulated sic- 39/01/01	$1,900.00	$95.00	$76.00	0
			leave plus v»s^g/oi/O2	$2,100.00	$105.00	$84.00	0
			penoa.		 					
t u u ।	. L	ctlon 7a(ii). Health and Welfare contributions shall be made for regular part-time bus chauffeurs
. rd -he con?mence™ent of each school year and until the following July 1, the individua are scheduled to work four (4) hours per day, five (5) days per week or the equivalent, be placed in a category relating to his/her accumulated sick leave. The waiting period she scheduler) to wonr rour w nours pe y, \
year “mme"cing wi‘h July 1 or September 1. The benefits s-wjon 7a(|il). The Trust Fund sha|| have its place of business in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, offset by Social Secunty after five (5) months of continuous disability.	Xcal 1201 Trust Agreement for the Health and Welfare Fund shall be amended to require the
e-rtir>r> Tho c h । rv * n	.	oointment of an equal number of Union and School District Trustees who shall operate the Fund.
Section 5a. The School Distnctwill, as soon as practicable, furnish to each employee a bl0DOlnOTlenl0' "u" explaining the coverage of all insurance plans available to them for which the School Distr;rtl„n ippnop of TRUST FUND the employees make premium contributions and the amount of such respective contribution* 7b‘ HUKHUbt
Section 5b. The Superintendent will provide to each employee an annual accounting of h sick leave accumulation.
The purposes of the Trust Fund shall be to make payments from principal or income □oth of (1) benefits to employees, their families and dependents for medical and hospital care; benefits on account of sickness, temporary disability, permanent disability, death or retirement;
48
49


Article
Article XVI
(3) benefits for any and all other purposes which may be specified by the Trustees of the provided same are within the scope of applicable law.
(Hi). The value of a day of accumulated sick leave for such purpose for 10 month
t .iz j j ,. ., , xl_ T mployees shall be one-two hundredth (1/200) of the annual salary such an employee is receiving
<5hAii hAVA fl ill anthori^M Jltahikh	m f h °f w e TliUSt a ’ 1,aPP|lcable law, the Ti^ tirne of termination and the value of a day of accumulated sick leave for such purpose for 12
Imo InUr ZnVetZ ?typaS ’ and/®9ula‘lbns Wl“? re,sPeat t0 “W employees shall be one-two hundred and fortieth (1/240) of the annual sala>y such employee amounts of benefits, eligibility, pnonties among classes of benefits, methods of pro ^ rAAAivinn at the time of termination arranging for provisions for benefits, investment of Trust Funds, and all other related	recelvln9 at ,tle time of termination.
including reasonable and necessary administrative costs.	(iv). Paymenti in accordance with the prwisions listed above, for the accumulated
ck leave days of an employee who is deceased shall be made to the employee's beneficiary or
Section 7c. PAYMENT TO TRUST FUND
n I • ThaPeynientsto the TrustFund shall be made by the Board to the Fund |	The Superintendent shall within thirty (30) days of the termination date
conclusion of each full bi-weekly pay penod for twenty-six (26) such payments during the ,0^^ suob payment for all unused sick days, personal leave days and vacation days. Such pall be limited to retirees with twenty-five (25) years of service. This shall apply to all other retirees
Section 7d. TITLE TO MONIES PAID INTO TRUST FUND
a soon as administratively possible.
_■ -a . .	a .	.	ection 9. In the event that an employee is absent from work due to injury resulting from a
, a TUe-t0 a the 2-a'd !nt° a?,d/°rT-due1 end owing said Trust Fund s'^yg|ca) assau|t arising out of the performance of his duties, he/she shall be paid, an amount, frlmVhiL Fnn/IhLIi hfXuhS'2T y*he Tmse®s of V1? T™st Fbnd- No benefits or monies FaWud|ng payments, if any, at which he/she is entitled under the Workmen's Compensation Act, J? . Z ® Fund ®bal be subJ®ct ln any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assign- uat to compensation he/she would have received during the period of his/her absence for the nlArinZ’	and llHto antlc|Pate’ alienate sell, transfer year of such absence. Such absence shall not be charged against his/her sick or personal
1hV|9nnt nr do11! a Illi® ?°nI ‘° be paV '1H TrUb eve Medical expenses arising out of such injury will be paid by the Board. Details concerning the mann^bZ^^nlrVlhlunlf T hr	1	shallhsald ™nlss'nplementation of this policy are set forth in Administrative Bulletin #12.
manner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities or torts of any beneficiary c'1 r
Trust Fund.	ection 10. If an employee is absent due to an injury which makes him/her eligible for Workmen's
Section 7a l favf of arsfnof Foo FMDi ovfcq ta woDiz for , tl ompensation benefits or the benefits described in Section 11 of this Article XVI and such injury ' wfi farf pnwnENCE F°R FMFL0YEES TO WORK FOR HEALTH as jn=Lirred while the employee was receiving the rate of pay of a classification higher than his/her wtirdKt fund	armanent classification under the terms of Article XV, Section 5 of this Agreement, such benefits
In accordance with the provisions of Article VIII, Section 4 of this Agree?8" be baSed °n the rate °f Pay aC‘Ua"y bein9 feCeiVed *	Wa®
IcJmpoI	aP^°inhte1i h° fU" P°sitions/Witb the "FirenT ana Action 11a(i). Bus chauffeurs with ten (10) years or more service shall be counseled as
Ih ! f M f	1 9T d < Is °2 absence for the PurP%on as it is known they are unfit to drive a bus. A maximum effort shall be made by the Division
Slaves oiXaV^	°ne ( } emP	bargaining unit shall be gr, Human Resources t' assign them to some other available position in the school system at the
y y	ame rate of salary or the maximum of the available position's salary, whichever is higher.
2resent pract1 Sha" 1 FOnti"ued s° ,h.a‘ uP°n termination of servi:^ction 11a(|j) Bus chauffeurs with five (5) but |ess than ten (10) years of service shall be comoensattan for ? w'TflZlrt IrV.Htad 1!? entlonal misaonduct shal1 be entitled to re^ । riy oounse|ed by the Division of Human Resources and an attempt shall be made to assign foltowtog pnnciples sM apply aCCU™lated S'Ck leaVe dayS’ Forpurposes °f thls P™s%m to some other position which they can handle.
m .	__._____ t. ..	..	, „	. . , , J	If such position has a lower hourly rate of pay then the chauffeur's existing rate,
.„->r=h=,n h -i ”ith® ®choo| y®ar of te™ln®tlon' *be accumulation of sick leave dL-',/shal| retain his/her former hourly rate as a red-circled rate until such time as the rate for the new vZfrdivLdhf h i ymn Pyrn9 vy- e,qhU 2 Umber°fmOnthSWO,Vassif;cation reaches the red-circled rate after which the employee shall be entitled to such such year div.ded by the total number of workmg months m sa.d year.	creaSes as are app|icab|e to the classification to which he/she has moved.
Iapva Hav. fnr «L	°/ ‘ ,hehempl°y®e's employment, the accumulation ot " Where such chauffeur is a 12-month employee, an effort shall be made to assign
leave days for each year shall be calculated by multiplying by ten the quotient of the numbL/hprto another 12-mnnth nosition months worked in such year divided by the total number of working months in said year.	P ■
50
51


Article!
Article XVI
Section 11 a(ili).	Bus chauffeurs with less than five (5) years of service shall also be ccj	Effective September 1, 2002, the School District shall increase the rate of
by the Division of Human Resources and attempts made to place the person in another jxntribution to the Legal Services Fund by fifteen dollars ($15.00) per capita.
which he/she can handle, if such is available. If no other position is available, he/sne st
allowed to take whatever sick leave he/she is due and be granted an unpaid leave of section 13c. The aforementioned contributions shall be made for regular part-time Bus Chauffeurs He/she shall retain all seniority rights accrued to the date of his/her separation and may per^0 are scheduled to work four (4) hours per day, five (5) days per week or the equivalent, be re-examined to determine his/her fitness for restoration.
C ..L/v	ictlon 13d. The Trust Fund shall have its place of business in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and
Section 11 b(i).	Employees, other than bus chauffeurs, with 15 or more ^hall be operated by a Board of five (5) Trustees, three (3) of whom shall be appointed by the
service shall be counseled when they become, by reason of physical handicap, unable to p^ion and two (2) of whom shall be designated by the Superintendent.
at their then current job classification. A maximum effort shall be made by the Division of tfte
Resources to assign thereto some other available position in the school system at the >ction 13e. PURPOSE OF TRUST FUND of salary or the maximum of the available position's salary, whichever is higher.
The purposes of the Trust Fund shall be to make payments from principal or income Section 11 b(li).	Employees other than bus chauffeurs with 10 but less than 15 -.both for the providing of legal services to employees, their families and dependents in a manner
service shall be similarly counseled by the Division of Human Resources and an attempt specified by the Trustees of the Fund, provided same are within the scope of applicable law. made to assign them to some other position which they can handle that offers a salary as c'l possible to the salary they have attained at the time of their disability.	Subject to the stated purpose of the Trust Fund and applicable law, the Trustees
all have full authority to establish rules and regulations with eligibility, priorities among classes of Section 11 b(iii). Employees other than bus chauffeurs with less than 10 years of sen ahefits, investment of Trust funds, and all other related matters including reasonable and also be counseled by the Division of Human Resources and attempts made to place the pe-cessary administrative costs.
another position which he/she can handle, if such is available. If no other position is aw>
he/she shall be allowed to take whatever sick leave he/she is due and be granted an unpc Action 13f. PAYMENT TO TRUST FUND of absence. He/she shall retain all seniority rights accrued to the date of his/her separation a-.l
periodically be re-examined to determine his/her fitness for restoration.	The payments to the Trust Fund shall be made by the Board to the Fund at the
nclusion of each bi-weekly pay period in accordance with the schedule set forth above.
Section 11c. To aid in the counseling process, the Union shall promptly be provided withal’’
current vacancies in entry level classifications for which the employee may be qualified .«lon 13g. TITLE TO MONEYS PAID TO TRUST FUND
Section 12. The Superintendent agrees that if during the term of this Agreement any clii> Title to all the monies paid into and/or due and owing said Trust Fund shall be vested are granted to other bargaining units of School District employees with reference to and remain exclusively in the Trustees of the Trust Fund. No benefits or monies payable from insurance programs, sick leave allowance, insurance at retirement, termination pay acts Fund shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignments, vacation, or increased mileage allowance, such changes will be made effective at the sarridge. encumbrance or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, for members of the bargaining unit represented by Local 1201.	idgei encumber or charge the same shall be void. The monies to be paid into said Trust Fund
all not constitute or be deemed wages due to the individual employee nor shall said monies in any Section 13a. CREATION OF TRUST FUND	inner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities or torts of any beneficiary of such
jst Fund.
A Trust Fund shall be created and be know as the "Firemen and Oilers, Local?*
Legal Services Plan" established by the National Conference of Firemen and Oilers, LocalIctlon 13h LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR EMPLOYEES TO WORK FOR LEGAL SERVICES AFL-CIO.	AN
Section 13b. The Board shall pay into such fund the sum of$100 payable as follows: for 10i| In accordance with the provisions of Article VIII, Section 4 of this Agreement, employees, $5.00 for each of 20 bi-weekly pay periods: for 12 month employees, $3.85 fortiployees who are elected and/or appointed to full-time positions with the "Firemen and Oilers, weekly pay periods and $3.75 for the 26th weekly pay period.	cat 1201 Legal Services Plan" shall be granted leaves of absences for the purposes of accepting
■positions. No more than one (1) employee from the bargaining unit shall be granted such of absence for any year.
boaro snail be prorated for the period of employment.	F
ction 14. CHILDREN'S HEALTH INITIATIVE
52
53
Article t
Article XVIII
The scheduled Warehouse inventory period shall not be changed on less than sixty The Union and the School District have a shared concern about the he=i(60) days notice to the Union of such change.
Philadelphia’s children and a shared commitment to work jointly and individually to advan:- .
Children's Health Initiative.	V	No Building Construction Inspector shall request that any part of his/her vacation
shall be scheduled during the last week in August nor the first week in September.
Toward that end, the parties agree that: The Union's Health and Welfare Fun®,:
the School District's Student Health Service will jointly sponsor an annual health fair aimed priife,	The vacation schedules for bus chauffeurs shall provide that up to 310 weeks of
at the preschool and school-age children of members of the bargaining unit.	vacation time be allotted to the period during July and August. The Superintendent, at his sole
discretion, may allot additional weeks of vacation time during July and August provided that all of The Health and Welfare Fund shall provide, before the first day of school, an a-the bus requirements during July and August can be met utilizing the bus chauffeurs available physical examination for each dependent of bargaining unit members who is enrolled niduring July and August. Bus chauffeurs available shall mean those bus chauffeurs classified as preschool or school-age program conducted by the Philadelphia School District. The Heal.-fbllows:
Welfare Fund shall employ a case manager for each two hundred fifty (250) children to enstrf-r
each child received any follow-up service or treatment appropriate for any health-related probt*	Bus Chauffeur -12 months
identified by the physical examination.	Bus Chauffeur - Handicapped Children
Bus Chauffeur - Special Status
ARTICLE XVII
VACATIONS	Section 3a. No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of custodial employees in a facility will be granted vacation during the last two (2) weeks prior to school opening.
Section 1. Each full-time and part-time twelve (12) month employee in the bargainings
covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to the following vacation with pay at the annual ^Section 3b. During the school year, no more than seven (7) licensed employees in any region
pay such employee is receiving at the time such vacation is actually taken:	■nay be granted vacation at any one time, and no more than ten percent (10%) of the non-licensed staff of a school.
Length Of Uninterrupted Service to July 1	Vacation Time	Section 3c. No custodial employee shall be granted more than two (2) weeks of vacation during he school year. Vacation consideration shall be granted the building engineer of a building first
a.	If appointed between January 1 and April 30	1 week b.	6 months to 4 years	2 weeks c.	4 years to 8 years	3 weeks d.	8 years to 15 years	4 weeks e.	Over 15 years	4 weeks & 2 days	oefore any of the staff is considered. Section 3d. Any concerns or disputes regarding vacation requests shall be referred to the Executive Director of Facilities Management who shall meet with the President of the Union or his iesignee.
Section 1a. Continuous uninterrupted service shall be calculated from the first day employee’s current employment.
ARTICLE XVIII SENIORITY
Section 2. The above vacation privilege shall be subject to all Board of Education regulaSection 1. School District seniority is defined as uninterrupted, continuous service by appointed concerning vacations. All requests for specific vacation time shall be made to the resparnployees in the School District in the collective bargaining unit covered by this Agreement. An departments no later than May 1 for the vacation year to begin July 1 of that yearjppointed employee shall lose all accumulated School District seniority only if he/she: Administration shall respond to the request no later than June 1.
Vacation choices of employees shall be granted on the basis of departrt seniority. The present practice for request and award of vacation time in each departments continue except as modified in consultation with the Union.
No employee of the Warehouse shall request that any part of his vacation sb scheduled during the inventory period which shall be the last full week in June.
a.	resigns or is discharged for cause, irrespective of whether he/she is subsequently rehired by the School District,
b.	is laid off for more than twelve (12) consecutive calendar months,
c.	under Board Regulations currently in effect, is no longer a School District employee.
54
55
Article XVII'
Article XVIII
department in the bargaining unit in which he/she has previously served for which he/she is
Section 2a. Departmental seniority is defined as uninterrupted, continuous service by 3 qualified. Such an employee shall not accumulate departmental seniority in that department unless appointed employee in the collective bargaining unit covered by this Agreement in a departmer he'she is appointed or transferred to a vacant position in such department.
the School District. An appointed employee shall lose all accumulated departmental seniority if!:
loses School District seniority as set forth in Section 1 above. He/she shall also lose:	The recall of such an employee shall be made in accordance with Section 8 of this
accumulated departmental seniority if he/she transfers as an appointed employee to a positions Article XVIII.
another department covered by this Agreement and remains in that position for more than one ys;
If the employee returns to the former department within the one year period specified above heu Section 4.
The Board will adopt regulations under the authority of the Home Rule Charter for
shall retain his/her seniority accumulated in the department to which he/she returns.	appointment of employees in the classifications in the collective bargaining unit covered by this
Agreement and for promotions to positions and classifications in such unit, which will provide for the
Section 2b(i). The parties agree that newly hired bus chauffeurs shall serve a probationary petifduration of this Agreement, as follows:
of one hundred eighty (180) calendar days from the first day hired. During this probationary per
an employee may be transferred or terminated without cause at the discretion of the superintend? Section 4a. Appropriate examinations shall be given for appointment and promotion in said without recourse to the grievance procedure.	classifications.
Section 2b(ii).Newly hired employees, other than Bus Chauffeurs, shall serve a probationary pen Section 4b. Consideration will also be given to the candidate's record of performance and of one hundred eighty (180) calendar days from their first date of hire. During this probation seniority in the School District, so that the following effect shall be given to seniority and period, an employee may be transferred or terminated without cause at the discretion of ■ performance rating: Superintendent, without recourse to the grievance procedure. Days worked as a per diem substitii;
shall be counted toward satisfying an employee's probationary period.
(i)	. In the event an employee of the School District shall attain a final average
equal to or more than the minimum passing grade, then there shall be added to such score a Section 2b(iii).	Effective October 10,1995, newly hired Employees will be eligible for medi ^maximum of ten (10) points for seniority, prorated at .33 of a point for each full year of School District
insurance, personal illness days and personal leave days only after the successful completion ^seniority such an employee has accumulated to the date of the examination, and a maximum of five their 180 day probationary period. Probationary Employees will accrue vacation days from thefi ,(5) points for the last departmental performance rating given to said employee at least thirty (30) day of employment but will not be permitted to use such days during the probationary peril?, aays prior to the time that the examination was announced, determined as follows: Probationary Employees will be subject to drug/alcohol testing during the period of their probata?
Section 3a. When an employee accepts an appointment to a permanent position not covered!? t this Agreement, his/her seniority as defined in this Article XVIII shall cease to accumulate. Shou ‘j, such an employee return to a position in the bargaining unit within one year of the date on whk (< he/she left his/her position in the bargaining unit, his/her departmental seniority shall be the sum his/her departmental seniority prior to his/her appointment to a position outside of the bargaining u * and his/her departmental seniority from his/her date of return to a position in the bargaining uni j
Points Added to Passing Grade for Performance
Rating
Satisfactory Superior Outstanding
0
3
5
(ii)	. The total score of the employee, i.e., the examination grade, the points for
An employee who accepts an acting or temporary assignment to a position outsit seniority and the points for performance rating, shall govern the position of such employee on the of the bargaining unit shall continue to accumulate seniority for a period of one year from the d: Eligibility list established under said examination for appointment or promotion to the classification of such assignment. During such one year period the Union shall have the right to represent sui jhvolved.
employee with respect to his/her rights under this Agreement. If such assignment continues beyoi j<
the one year period, it shall no longer be considered acting or temporary and the senior Section 5a. Mechanics who achieve B Mechanic status after two thousand (2,000) hours and
accumulated in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph shall be lost.
prior to being advanced to A Mechanic status, shall be required to take and pass a practical
• mination covering the practices and procedures of the trade. The Union shall be given the
In no event shall an employee who accepts an acting, temporary or permane ipportunity to provide input to the design of the examination. The examination shall be given within position outside the bargaining unit retain any seniority rights in the bargaining unit for a peril jirty (30) days. Upon successful completion of the examination, the mechanic will be advanced beyond one year's duration.	^A Mechanic status retroactive to the date such Mechanic completed the 2,000 hours.
Section 3b. An employee who is subject to layoff and cannot be assigned to a position i j	A “B Mechanic” who fails such an examination shall be retained in B Mechanic status
provided in Section 6 of this Article XVIII may be assigned temporarily to any other position in and shall receive remedial assistance to address the deficiencies In his/her performance and shall
56
57
Article XV!
Article XVIII
be given the practical examination within thirty (30) days of when the deficiency is corrected, but• later than the time at which he/she completes an additional two thousand (2,000) hours of wor
Section 5b. Stock Clerks I shall be advanced to the classification of Stock Clerks II if they hi. satisfactorily performed the work of Stock Clerks II for a total of 2000 hours.
Section 6. After the consolidation of the maintenance crafts, the seniority lists from the cn existing prior to consolidation shall be merged in accordance within the new groupings accordance with departmental seniority.
Section 7. The parties recognizing that this bargaining unit has already sustained deep i' substantial reductions, agree that no layoffs other than those layoffs already made or notified sh t be necessary during the life of this Agreement. However, this provision shall not apply to lay" resulting from:
a.	Declines in pupil enrollment;
b.	The closing of a facility;
c.	The cancellation of a program;
d.	The School District's exercise of its managerial discretion to cease performing an activity or operations;
e.	Technological changes
Section 7a. In the event of a departmental or work location reduction in force, includii % reductions caused by the discontinuance of a facility or its relocation, the employees shall be . off in the inverse order of seniority of the employees in the department involved at the work location
Section 7b. At least seven (7) calendar days before being laid off, an appointed employee r. be informed of all vacancies in any other work location in his/her classification in the departmei i which he/she holds an appointment, for the purpose of giving him/her an opportunity, to b) exercised within said seven (7) calendar days, to fill such vacancy. If he/she requests appointrr? to such vacancy, he/she shall be assigned thereto. In the event that vacancies in such classificaw exist in several work locations, he/she shall be assigned to the vacancy designated by department. In the event more than one appointed employee in such classification is laid off, aif. there are insufficient vacancies for such assignments, then the laid off employees with the hignet seniority shall first be assigned to the vacancies involved.
Section 7c. In the event that there is no such vacancy, then the laid off employee shall, with^ said seven (7) calendar day period, be entitled to displace the appointed employee with the lei departmental seniority in the same classification in any other work location in the department, c his/her option, he/she may displace the appointed employee with the least departmental senioi( in a lesser classification in the same department provided the displaced employee has less seniof, than he/she and provided he/she is capable of performing the work with the same efficiency as tt appointed employee whom he/she seeks to replace. The displacing employee shall be paid the of pay of the position which he/she takes as above. No employee shall have the right to displai any other employee in any other department, irrespective of seniority.
Section 7d. The department shall furnish to each such laid off employee before said seven (7) calendar day period, information as to work locations of the classifications and lesser classifications the duties of which such employee is capable of performing as above so that he/she shall be in a position promptly to exercise his/her rights under subparagraph b above.
Section 7e. Each appointed employee who is displaced shall similarly have seven (7) calendar days from the date of notice of his/her displacement to exercise his/her seniority rights, as set forth iri Subparagraphs b and c above.
Section 7f. In the event that a laid off or displaced appointed employee shall so desire, he/she shall be entitled to displace the long term substitute last employed to work in the classification from Which the appointed employee was laid off, or such long term substitute employed to work in a lower rated classification in the same department which work the displacing employee is capable of performing with the efficiency referred to in subparagraph c above.
Section 8. Displacing appointed employees who have accepted assignments to vacancies in classifications lower than the classifications they held immediately prior to the occasions which resulted in their displacing other appointed or long term substitute employees shall be entitled to be assigned, in the order of their departmental seniority, to the first vacancies available in their former classifications.
Section 8a. In the event that within one (1) year from the date of his/her layoff a vacancy occurs in the classification of his/her last appointment in the department from which he/she was laid off, or in a lesser classification in the same line of work in the department, a laid off employee shall be entitled to recall thereto in the order of his/her departmental seniority.
Section 8b. The one (1) year period of recall from layoff contained in section 8 shall be disregarded for the life of this Agreement. That is, employees shall have recall rights in accordance with this Agreement for the duration of this Agreement.
Section 9. Notice of recall to work shall be addressed to the employee’s last address appearing on the records of the School District, by certified mail, return receipt requested. Within three (3) days from receipt of such notice of recall, the employee shall notify the Director of the Department involved, in writing, whether or not he/she desires to return to the work involved in the recall. If he/she fails to reply or if he/she indicates that he/she does not desire to return to such work, he/she shall forfeit all of his/her seniority and all rights to recall. If he/she indicates that he/she desires to return to the work involved in the recall notice, then he/she shall report for such work within five (5) days from the date he/she received the recall notice or within such periods of time as is set forth in a written extension of time signed by the Director of the Department or his/her designee. In the event he/she shall fail to so report to work, he/she shall forfeit all of his/her seniority and all rights to recall.
Section 10.	Seniority shall not be accumulated during the period of layoff. Upon recall, the appointed employee shall have his/her accumulated seniority to the date of layoff.
Section 11.	An employee who is discharged or laid off shall have seven (7) calendar days within which to file a written grievance under Article IV hereof. In the event that no written grievance is filed

______________________________________________________________________________Article XIX y
within said time, the layoff or discharge shall be final and the employee shall have no recourse ? through the grievance procedure or otherwise.	'•
Section 12.	Because the duties and skills are the same, half-time employees in the Operations [ Department with satisfactory ratings shall be entitled to fill vacancies in the full time cleanin; ■ classification on the basis of seniority.
11
Section 13.	Work location seniority for School Aides I shall be based on service in the sendii school.	' I
Section 14.	In the case of a reduction in force in the maintenance department which results is '■ the displacement of an A or B mechanic, that mechanic may displace a trades trainee with li seniority in one of the other trades within the same cluster of trades as his/her original craft, i.e -Maintenance Trades, Electrical and Mechanical Trades or Facilities Maintenance-Building Trades Such a former mechanic shall be considered to be at the beginning of the Trades Trainee progn -on the craft to which he/she has moved.	,
Article XIX
Section 1e. Certificates and credentials awarded the employee shall be made a matter of permanent record.
Section 1f. Upon successful completion of the training course, the trainee will be eligible to compete in a competitive examination for the journeyman trades position.
Section 1g. A Joint Training Programs Committee shall consult with the Director of Facilities Services and his/her staff on a regular basis, and shall aid in the establishment and maintenance of the programs described above. The committee shall consist of three (3) authorized Union members and three (3) members selected by the Superintendent.
The training committee established pursuant to Article XIX, §1 g shall be charged with training, testing and testing procedures necessary as a result of the consolidation of maintenance crafts, and the reclassification of Building Engineers. This committee shall also be charged with exploring training needs concerning Design and Construction.
Section 1 h(i). If at any time, a trainee fails to maintain satisfactory progress, either in on-the-job training or the instructional phase of the program, or shall fail to successfully pass the examination for the journeyman job within 90 days of the completion of all phases of the departmental program, or 270 days for Fireman Trainees, he/she shall be returned to his/her former classification within the School District. If, however, he/she had entered as a trainee from outside the school system, then in such case his/her employment shall terminate.
Section 1h(ii).However, such an employee who is not terminated for cause shall be eligible for appointment to a position of a lower grade covered by the bargaining unit after the appointment of all eligibles on the interdepartmental eligibility list referred to in Article XX, Section 1b of this Agreement and before the appointment of eligibles on the open competitive list referred to in said section.
Section 2.	The Trades Trainee Program shall continue to operate at a frequency determined by the Director of Facilities Services as appropriate to predicted needs, in accordance with the current practice as outlined below:
Section 2a. An appointed Trades Trainee will participate in a program of classroom instruction and on-the-job training, of a length appropriate to his prospective trade and of relevant content.
Section 2b. At the conclusion of the Trades Trainee phase, an examination will be given. A passing grade will make the trainee eligible for appointment to Class B Mechanic; a failing grade will constitute unsatisfactory progress in the program, and in such case, Section 1h will apply.
Section 2c. In lieu of normal progress through the Trades Training Program, any presently employed Junior Mechanic may elect to take the final examination when it is given at the conclusion of the first cycle of the program, for the trade of his/her choice and, if he achieves a passing grade, shall be appointed a "B" Mechanic in that trade. Current craft licensing requirements shall prevail.
Section 3.	When an examination is given for the classification of B Mechanic in a maintenance trade that is open to candidates other than school district employees, a trades trainee in that craft
Section 15.	A separate seniority list shall be established for Driver Training Instructors.
Section 16.	If, in a school in which cleaning and engineering operations have been privatize, the school is returned to school district operation, Employees who were displaced from that schou shall have the right to return to the position in that school which they held at the time they were, displaced, if such a position still exists, by seniority order.
ARTICLE XIX
DEPARTMENTAL TRAINING PROGRAMS	-
Section 1. Training programs shall be developed within the Department of Facilities Service to meet anticipated needs for qualified personnel beyond entrance levels. The Board will establish; regulations governing such activities, and the regulations will be based on the following principle!
- I
Section 1a. The time in course or trade for training will generally follow accepted standards, but, in no case will be less than the minimum time required to qualify for such occupational licensing as may be required for the position.
Section 1 b. The department shall maintain a current listing of approved educational opportunities available after regular working hours to the trainee; reserving the right to continuously gauge th: trainee's educational progress.
Section 1c. The department shall provide such unique and specialized training, not normall, included in the occupational education curricula, where such is deemed pertinent and necessary ■ by the department.
Section 1d. The department shall measure the progress of the trainee in areas of performance and competence on a regular basis.
60
61

■
Article A
Article XIX
r
Section 6b. A Trades Trainee type program for Athletic Field Helpers shall be developed. The
who is within six months of the completion of his/her trades trainee program on the last date	■ ■ ■ -
which applications are accepted shall be considered to meet the experience qualifications 'progression for advancement shall be from Athletic Field Helper to Landscape Trainee and then to admission to the examination.	Neither Field Caretaker or Landscaper-Treeman Mechanic. Employees will have to complete 2000
■either Field Caretaker or Landscaper-Treeman Mechanic. Employees will have to complete 2000
Section 4.
hours of satisfactory service as a Landscape Trainee to become eligible to take the exam for the
Training programs shall be developed within the Warehouse Department to n» next lli9her level. After passing that examination, they will be eligible for promotion in rank order anticipated needs for qualified personnel beyond the entrance level in the printing crafts. 1	I*16 l'st as vacancies become available. When a vacancy occurs in the Caretaker I or II
Superintendent shall establish regulations governing such activities in conformance with Sect 'classification, the employees currently appointed to those classifications will have an opportunity to 1 of this Article, except that the Joint Training Program Committee shall consult on a regular bs ■ for suc^ vacancy. Seniority lists will be prepared and posted. These lists will be limited to with the nimntnr <->f Warehouse 2nd h:c/hor staff.	iding seniority" and do not affect either departmental seniority or layoff status. "Bidding seniority”
with the Director of Warehouse and his/her staff.
Section 4a. Such Printing Training Programs shall continue to operate at a frequency determii by the needs of the Printing Shop as determined by the Director of the Warehouse.
is defined as the length of service of the employee in the classification to which he/she is assigned at the time of the bid. Remaining positions shall be filled in rank order from eligibility lists.
Section 4b.
examination.
Section 6c. The Administration shall continue to assign helpers, trainees and mechanics to field
All employees shall be hired and promoted to vacancies based on competiti ? an<^ landscaping duties as needed based on manpower and resources available. Consideration p will be given to geographical assignment of staff where possible within the requirements of the
Section 4c.
Lines of promotional opportunity shall be as follows:
oepartment. Field Caretakers shall not be reassigned for other than emergencies or snow removal responsibilities.
Section 4d.
the-job training.
Job Pressman to Pressman I Pressman I to Pressman II Pressman I to Paper Cutter Bindery Worker to Bindery Leader
Section 7. There shall be established a Training Committee, the purpose of which is to set up \ training programs for members of the bargaining unit.
This Committee shall be made up of three members of the bargaining unit and members of management from each of the following departments; Engineering, Housekeeping,
Training programs offered to employees will include classroom instruction andoi Maintenance, Transportation, Schools Aide, Bus Attendants and Warehouse/Print Shop. The t Committee shall be chaired by the Superintendent or his/her designee. The Superintendent may
Section 4e. To participate in such training programs, employees must have successful -completed six (6) months of service in the job they currently hold.	/
appoint other members of the Committee as he/she deems appropriate.
Section 4f. Upon the successful completion of the training program, employees will be eligiL-to take a competitive examination for the next higher job.
Section 4g. Employees will be appointed to vacancies which occur in accordance with Article > and established School District policy.
The Committee shall make its full recommendation to the Superintendent as to the method of training and classifications and persons to be trained and his/her decision shall be final. In the event that the Superintendent determines not to implement the training program as recommend, he/she shall call the Committee into session so that his/her questions and concerns can be amicably resolved.
The Committee shall hold its first meeting within one month of ratification of this contract. The Committee shall meet at least monthly upon the call of the Chairperson.
Section 4h. Failure either to complete successfully the training program or pass the examinatia for the higher job shall not affect the employee's current status.
!. during each contract year for the duration of this agreement in furtherance of the training program.
The School District guarantees to allocate a minimum of $200,000.00 to be spent
Section 5. Where administratively possible School Aides III assigned to special class centers are to receive proper training appropriate to the type of handicap and physical needs of the childre in the center.
Section 6a. The Union and the Administration agree to the establishment of a plan for tl classification and training of employees in the landscaping and Athletic Fields Department. The minutes of the Industrial Relations meetings dated August 6 and November 7,1979 shall reman in effect as a part of this Agreement.
Section 8. The Union and the School District shall meet to establish a training program for drivers of multiple-handicapped routes. MH drivers shall be required to attend up to a maximum of three (3) staff development days per school year between September 1 and June 30, without additional pay, on days when his/her route is not in operation. Programs will be jointly planned by the School District and Local 1201.
62
63
Article XX
Article X i
Section 9. The School District and Local 1201 shall engage in a collaborative effort to deve< an employment recruitment and training program directed to students of the Philadelphia public k schools. It is agreed that:
1.	The initial craft training program shall consist of the plumbing, mechanii
and electrical crafts. Fifty percent (50%) of the available openings shall! [ reserved for graduates of the Philadelphia Schools for craft training .For. purposes of this Article, the receipt of a G.E.D. diploma shall be consider! '■> as graduation from a Philadelphia public high school.
2.	The above ratio of reserved openings shall be maintained for each new « added to the program, if any.
Section 10.	The parties agree to establish a joint committee to develop a training program fori ' School Aides I, II and III and Bus Attendants.	'
Section 11.	All Transportation Instructors shall receive the same training.	\
Section 12.	The School District shall provide professional development for Maintenaro ? Mechanics in order to update their skills and qualify them to perform all tasks associated with the • classification.
Section 13.	Training
1.	Four levels of training and testing shall be provided in order to qualify Buildinj ! Engineers for certification to move from a lower group to a higher group. Training shall h , conducted for Building Engineers beginning in September, 1999, and shall be completed in August ':-2002, in accordance with the following schedule:	'
a.	1999-2000-Group I
b.	2000-2001 - Group II
c.	2001-2002 - Groups III & IV
2.	Training and testing pursuant to this agreement shall be ongoing. Testing shall be; a combination of written and practical to be agreed upon by the parties.
3.	Remedial training shall be provided to Building Engineers who have not qualified to certification following training. Remedial training shall be provided no later than July 1 and) concluded by August 31 prior to the next scheduled bid.
ARTICLE XX
TRANSFERS AND ASSIGNMENTS OF FACILITIES/MAINTENANCE EMPLOYEES
Section 1.	It is acknowledged that the Superintendent has the sole and exclusive:
prerogative to assign and transfer all employees in the collective bargaining unit and hereby retains r this prerogative without any reservations. However, unless, in his/her sole discretion, the i Superintendent shall deem it necessary to exercise such prerogative in any instance he/she wii ■
continue, except as herein modified, his/her prior practice with reference to Facilities Department employees as follows:
Section 1a. Any employees demoted for cause or suspended shall not be able to bid for promotion for a period of one year following such disciplinary action.
Section 1 b. Vacancies for all job classifications in the bargaining unit shall be filled by competitive examination. From such examination, lists of successful candidates shall be established as follows:
A.	Departmental - listing all of the successful candidates, in rank order, currently employed in the department where the vacancy(ies) exist.
B.	Interdepartmental - listing all the successful candidates, in rank order, who are currently employed in other departments of the School District.
C.	Open Competitive - listing all of the successful competitors, in rank order, who are not currently employed by the School District.
D.	Listing of the successful candidates, in rank order, who are graduates of the
Philadelphia public high schools as defined in Article XIX, Section 10.
Appointments to vacancies shall be from the eligibility lists identified above as Lists, A, B, C and D in the following order
First, in rank order from the departmental list of successful candidates who passed the examination and are currently employed in the department where such vacancy(ies) exist. Should the departmental list be exhausted and vacancies still exist, then
Second, in rank order from the interdepartmental list of successful candidates who are currently employed in other departments of the School District. Should this list be exhausted and vacancies still exist, then
Third, in rank order from the open competitive list of successful candidates who are not currently employed by the School District.
Group D shall have reserved to it up to fifty percent (50%) of the openings in each Fireman Trainee class and Craft Training program, referred to in Article XIX, Section 10, in rank order.
In the event that the current work force in any job classification consists of fewer that 25% of employees of the race in the minority in such job classification, the Superintendent may make priority appointments to vacancies from any of the above lists to achieve racial balance.
Section 1 c(i). All employees of the Facilities/Maintenance Department whose current performance rating is satisfactory or better shall be entitled to bid for transfer to a vacant position in the same classification and department in any other work location.
Article XX '
Section 1c(ii). If an employee cannot attend a scheduled bid procedure due to long-term illness, he/she shall be notified by the School District of the date of the bid procedure and shall be provided by him/her with the appropriate vacancy list and the job request form. These materials will $ provided to the employee by attaching them to the next paycheck following the receipt of the material in the school.
Section 1 c(iii).	An operations employee who has been suspended since the last bidding due
to the use of physical violence or absenteeism, or who has been suspended as a result of a hearing for job abandonment, shall not be entitled to bid. In the case of an employee on extended illness at the time of the bid, a review and determination of his/her eligibility to bid shall be conducted by the Administrator of Facilities Management and Services or his/her designee and a representative of the Union.
Section 1d. The School District shall maintain seniority lists appropriate for bidding under this Article and shall provide no later than fifteen (15) calendar days prior to each bid date or closing date, sufficient copies for posting on employees bulletin boards.
Section 2a. Licensed Classifications
Section 2a(i). Bidding for licensed classifications shall take place once each year during the month of September with new assignments to be effective at the beginning of the second full pay period after the date of the bid. The bidding referred to above shall be accomplished at one session.
Section 2a(il). Vacant positions in licensed classifications shall be awarded to the employee who has the highest seniority computed from the date of his/her latest appointment to his/her present grade and who has occupied the position in his/her present work location for at least one (1) year prior to the last day for the submission of bids.
Section 2b(i). A regular bid shall be held in September 1999, using the current seniority rules, bidding procedures and job classifications as outlined in the Local 1201 Agreement expiring August 31,1999.
(ii)	. After all moves are made as a result of the September 1999 bid, and no later than December 31,1999, the new four-group structure shall be implemented effective January 3,2000.
(iii)	. Effective September 1999, the four third-shift Building Engineer positions (3 high schools and one relief engineer), shall be placed on the September engineering bid as vacancies, at Pay Step122. A shift differential shall not apply. If persons with bidding rights elect not to choose any of these positions, assignments to third shift shall be made from the pool of licensed staff that have not yet bid in seniority order.
(iv)	The Pay Step of third shift engineers beginning September 2000, shall be determined prior to the engineering bid as Group II or III, depending on criteria such as building size, staff and mechanical complexity.
66
Article XX
Section 2c. Building Engineers who have not received training, testing and certification, shall Move according to bidding procedures under the Local 1201 Agreement expiring August 31,1999 for all bids on or after September 1,2000.
Section 2d. For individuals in groups that have received training, testing and certification, the procedure for bidding for promotion shall be as follows:
(i)	. Vacant positions shall be filled first by Building Engineers from a higher group who wish to demote to a lower group in accordance with current procedures.
(ii)	Remaining vacant positions shall be filled within the group by those Building Engineers who bid, in seniority order.
(iii)	Any vacancies remaining after following the procedure outlined above shall be filled by those Building Engineers from the immediately lower group who have been trained, tested and certified for the higher group, in seniority order.
Section 2e. Building Engineers shall be considered as “grandfathered” in the group in which they ate serving until training is offered for that group.
Section 2f. Building Engineers, in years two, three and four, who are eligible to move and do not, each receive five hundred dollars ($500.00) in a lump sum, payable in the first pay period of December in any year applicable.
Section 2g. Lists of vacancies in licensed positions shall be posted on employee bulletin boards for a period of as close to thirty (30) days as possible and in no case less than twenty (20) days prior to the date of bidding.
This list shall indicate the classification and number of vacancies, the work location of occurrence, the shift, days of work, and other pertinent information.
Section 2h. Licensed employees acting in supervisory positions may, during the first year of such Status, bid for positions in the bargaining unit only in the same grade they last held in the unit and, if they return to the unit within one (1) year shall suffer no loss of seniority.
Section 2i. When a building engineer, as a result of a promotion or transfer, assumes responsibility for a new building, the building engineer presently assigned to that building shall remain one full day to orient his/her successor, if the successor has not had previous experience with the type of plant in the new building. If he/she has such experience, the period or orientation shall be limited to one-half (%) day.
Section 2j. At the regular bidding procedure immediately prior to the projected opening of a new building, the complement of licensed personnel required shall be listed and established thereby. They shall be assigned to their new positions prior to the building opening.
Section 3. Maintenance
67
Article XX
A bid for maintenance vacancies shall be held in May of each year. Any employees moves resulting from the bid shall take place not later than the second pay period in June. Lists di vacancies in each craft shall be posted on employees bulletin boards for a period as close to thirty (30) days as possible and in no case less than twenty (20) days prior to the announced closing elates for the bid. The list shall indicate the craft and location (i.e. central or region). The mechanics in each respective craft will be permitted to bid for such vacancies, or any position created as a result of bid into such vacancy. Bidding will be in the order of craft seniority within each trade and will follow the general procedures for bidding used by the Operations Department.
Section 4a(l). Non-Licensed Classifications
Custodial Assistants shall bid for transfers to vacancies each year during the month of October with new assignments to be effective at the beginning of the second full pay period after the date of the bid. Following said bid, full and part time cleaners, housekeepers and elevator operators shall be notified by posting in each work location of the remaining custodial assistant vacancies and shall be permitted to submit in writing a statement of interest. A sufficient number of those who show such interest shall be invited to a bid for vacancies.
Each three (3) months, then-current Custodial Assistant vacancies shall be posted and filled as above.
Eligibility shall be established: (1) in accordance with section 1 c(i) of this Article XX; and, (2) upon the successful completion of the custodial assistant training program as provided by Facilities Management and Services. Said training program shall include practical testing developed by the Division of Personnel Testing with the input of Facilities Management and Local 1201. During the training program, the candidate shall be paid on the basis of his/her current rate. Upon successful completion of the training and testing, the candidate shall be appointed as a custodial assistant retroactive to the first day of the training program and the appropriate salary adjustment made.
Section 4a(ii). Bids for transfers to vacancies shall be held in December 1999, with new assignments to be effective no later than the second full pay period after the date of the bid. For the 1999-2000 school year, existing bidding and seniority procedures as set forth in the collective bargaining agreement expiring on August 31,1999 shall remain in effect for that bid only. The Night General Cleaner positions shall be posted as vacancies. All subsequent bids shall occur in December.
For all subsequent bids, the Custodial Aide and Housekeeper seniority list shall be merged into a single General Cleaner seniority list based upon departmental seniority. Bids for vacancies shall be based upon seniority placement on that list. Elevator operators shall bid for elevator operator vacancies before Employees in other classifications may bid on such vacancies. However, no employees may bid for promotion if he/she has been demoted for cause or suspended during the previous year.
Section 4a(iii). Lists of vacancies in the appropriate positions shall be posted on employee bulletin boards for a period of as close to thirty (30) days as possible and in no case less than twenty
68
Article XX
(20) days prior to the announced closing dates for each bid referred to above. This list shall indicate the classification and number of vacancies, the work location of occurrence, the shift, days of work, and other pertinent information. Such period of twenty (20) calendar days from the date of posting shall be allowed for submission of bids.
Section 4a(iv). Except as otherwise provided hereinabove, vacant positions in non-licensed classifications shall be awarded to the employee entitled to bid, who has the highest departmental seniority and who has occupied his/her present position for at least one (1) year prior to the last day for the submission of bids. If the Superintendent, in his/her sole discretion, shall deem it for the best interest of the School District in any particular instance, he/she may transfer to a vacancy the employee, in grade, properly qualified, with the highest seniority as set forth above, whether or not he/she has been in his/her present work location for said one (1) year period.
Section 4b. Ten-month employees in job classifications within the bargaining unit shall be given preference for summer employment in openings in job classifications within the bargaining unit for which they are qualified. The employee shall be paid for such work at the rate applicable to employees newly appointed to such classification. The duration of such temporary summer employment shall be contingent upon the service needs of the employing department and upon satisfactory service. An employees dismissed from summer employment because of unsatisfactory service may be deemed to be unqualified for such summer service for a period of up to two (2) /ears.
Section 4c. i. All cleaning leaders shall bid for transfers to vacancies each year during the month of May with new assignments to be effective no later than the beginning of the first full pay period in June.
ii.	The list of vacancies in the cleaning leader position shall be posted on employee bulletin boards for a period of 25 days prior to the announced closing date for the bid. The list shall indicate the classification and number of vacancies, work location of occurrence, shift, days of work and other pertinent information.
iii.	A cleaning leader II may bid for promotion to the cleaning leader III position after completing one year of satisfactory service in the cleaning leader II position.
iv.	The cleaning leader’s work performance will be rated once a year by his/her supervisor. Ratings will be based upon the following:
(1)	Attendance
(2)	Punctuality
(3)	Work Performance
Section 4d. Voluntary Demotion:
1.	A cleaning leader who voluntarily demotes to a lower classification custodial assistant or general cleaner shall be placed at the bottom of the seniority list for that lower classification.
69
2-	^or one year. following the effective date of the bid, a cleaning leader who voluntat demotes to a lower classification shall be prohibited from a lateral transfer, further volunta demotion or a promotion.
3-	If the cleaning leader had not previously been an employee of the School Distrii and fails to maintain satisfactory performance in that position, then in such cases his/h employment shall terminate.
Section 5.	Any prospective or current employee of the Facilities/Maintenance Department or an, other empioyee in any classification who has obtained a valid engineer’s license, and has records: it at the Regional Manager’s office and the office of the Facilities/Maintenance Department musl serve in the entry level Engineer position (and successfully complete the department's Engine Trainee Program) prior to any licensed positions of a higher grade. Nothing herein shall prevent th appointment of candidates from an eligibility list to the Building Engineer position (Group I).
Section 6.	A licensed employee who is charged with an inability to operate and service -physical plant or the inability to properly supervise his/her staff, shall first have a conference with the Director of Facilities Management and Services or his/her designee to discuss the charges an to counsel the employee with a view to resolving the problem. The employee shall be entitled I-Union representation at such conference.
_, .	charged again with such inability, the employee shall have a hearing before i
Review Committee composed of two (2) licensed representatives designated by the Union, and tw (2) licensed representatives designated by the Operations Department and one representative o the engineenng department selected jointly from a list of three (3) names submitted by thi Engineenng Department No representative on the Review Committee shall be from the area offia of the employees involved. If the review involves the inability to operate and service the physics plant, at least one session of the Review Committee hearing shall be held at the work location I u ,, Co,mml‘tee recommends that the employee be placed in a lower classification, he/shi shall be placed at the top of the lower classification but shall not bid until successful completion o training courses for that level.
, .r .. If J116 employee does not bid, his/her name remains on the seniority list of the Iowa classification until such time as he/she exercises his/her bidding rights.
®®c*'°n J- . ,ln 11,6 event that a vacancy is not filled in the manner set forth in Article XX, Sections 1,2,3,4 of this Agreement, assignment thereto shall be as follows:
Soction 7a. For vacancies in non-licensed position from an appropriate eligibility list established by the Personnel Department.
Section 7b. For vacancies in licensed positions by the employee who has bid for the position on the list posted in accordance with Section 1 b of this Article and has the highest seniority in highest grade. Such seniority is to be computed from the latest date of assignment to his/her present grade.
In the event that the vacancy, as defined in Article III, Section 1 n is not filled in tee manner set forth herein, and an appropriate eligibility list is in existence, the vacancy shall be filled from such appropriate list established by the Personnel Department.
Section 7c. When a position for either a General Cleaner or Custodial Assistant for Jhe Superintendent's floor of the Administration Building is to be filled, a notice will be posted so that al interested General Cleaners and Custodial Assistants may apply.
Sections. Geographical assignments or reassignments in the Facilities/Maintenance Department, resulting from either Facilities/Maintenance Department’s needs or an employees stated request for reassignment, shall be made at the discretion of the Supenntendent giving due consideration in the selection of personnel for such assignments to preference and semonty of qualified employees.
Section 9a. Bidding shall be once per year in the first full week of June, with employees indicating their desire for a primary assignment as either a stock clerk assigned warehouse duties or a stock clerk assigned to furniture moving. Employees successfully bidding on stock clerk assigned to furniture moving will be utilized as stock clerks assigned to warehouse duties if no furniture move work exists and vice versa.
Section 9b. There will be one Warehouse Department seniority list.
Section 9c. If overtime is needed on a moving assignment, employees assigned to teat assiqnment shall have first preference to it. Any requirements for overtime which are not met from the employees assigned to that job shall be offered to all warehouse employees in order of department seniority.
ARTICLE XXI
TRANSFERS AND ASSIGNMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION EMPLOYEES, SCHOOL AIDES AND BUS ATTENDANTS
Section 1. Qualifications
a.	A line of progression shall exist for all bus and truck chauffeur vacancies.
The entrance level to any chauffeur vacancy shall be by examination given by the Personnel Department and shall be at a part time level. Part time employment shati mean employment on a daily basis for less than eight (8) hours per day. On tee basis of Pe^^nce, legal qualifications and seniority all chauffeurs shall be permitted to advance from part time to ful time classifications.
b.	All chauffeurs shall be required to take tee physical and driving examinations required of bus chauffeurs.
A part-time chauffeur who does not meet tee legal qualification to advance to a bus chauffeur position shall be eligible to compete on the basis of seniority and performance for a tuii-i time truck chauffeur position.
Article XXI
Article XXI
of time and one-half in addition to his/her regular days pay. These required work days are in addition to those specified in Article XIX, Section 9
The requirement that a driver remain in his or her assignment for one year will be waived for regular part-time MH chauffeurs only in case of promotion to a full time position or selection of a part-time multiple handicapped route which accumulates more hours than the driver's current route.
The level of MH Chauffeurs shall be maintained at sixty percent (60%) full-time and forty percent (40%) part time throughout the length of this agreement
i.	"Regular Truck Route" - the work schedule required of a truck chauffeur and shall include driving a truck as well as servicing and cleaning the trucks to which he/she is assigned on a daily basis. Two (2) types of truck routes are designated: (1) Pony Express routes and (2) Delivery Truck routes.
Pony Express routes shall be posted as individual routes and Delivery Truck routes shall be posted as assignments to departments or work locations. The daily assignment to successful bidders on Delivery Truck routes shall be made by the supervisor of the appropriate department at the work location involved.
All School District owned trucks when used for bargaining unit work shall be driven by appropriately classified School District Employees in the bargaining unit.
The assignment for driving a token truck shall be posted as a twelve month position each September. The employees who is awarded this position shall not bid for the period through the following September. The twelve month token drivers) shall be paid on a twelve month basis. Token drivers may apply for accrued vacation during Christmas and Easter weeks as well as during the months of July and August. Requests for time off shall be determined based upon seniority.
j.	"Summer Bus Route" - the work schedule required of a "Bus Chauffeur -12 month" during the period that summer schools are in session, and shall include driving a bus on a regular summer school schedule, educational excursions, and any other trips required, as well as servicing and cleaning the buses to which he/she is assigned on a daily basis.
k.	"Regular Part Time Bus Chauffeur" - a driver assigned for less than eight (8) hours per day and assigned to a route which is scheduled for less than forty (40) hours of pay time per week during the normal school year beginning in September and ending in June. The duties of such a chauffeur include driving a bus on a scheduled route as well as servicing and cleaning buses.
To establish the number and to identify the individuals so classified, a review of route assignments and payroll records shall be made as needed between September and June. Upon completion of the review, status as a regular part time bus chauffeur shall be retroactive to the first day of such assignment.
The latest review results shall be the data to be used in official business of the Union and School District. The Union shall provide one person to work with one person designated by the
Administrator of Transportation Services to perform the review described above. The parties shall confer as necessary, and determine whether the existing method of determining the number of part time chauffeurs shall be revised.
Regular Part Time Bus Chauffeurs shall be entitled to paid leave which shall be calculated based upon their regularly assigned hours.
I.	"Special Status Chauffeur" - a full-time driver who is not assigned to a bid route. The duties of such a chauffeur include driving a bus on a scheduled route as well as servicing and cleaning buses.
Section 4. Bidding & Assignment Schedules
a.	For the 1999 - 2000 School Year, the annual bids described in Article XXI of the 1995 -1999 contract shall apply. Effective September, 2000:
i.	A scheduled general bid for full-time routes shall be held one (1) time
each calendar year prior to the first day of school in September.
ii.	A scheduled general bid for part-time routes shall be held one (1) time every two calendar years. The bid shall be held prior to the first day of school in September in the year that it is held.
iii.	Part-time chauffeurs shall bid annually in September to fill vacancies.
b.	Effective September 1, 1999, openings on any regular bus or truck routes
which occur after the scheduled September bid shall be posted during interim bids which shall be held at least twice during the school year in December and April, for those chauffeurs qualified to bid.
c.	In between the scheduled interim bids, any opening in a full-time position shall be filled until the next interim bid by the most senior, qualified, part-time driver who accepts the position.
d.	Summer bus route bidding shall be conducted only once for all ESY, regular
summer school and Widener Memorial (OH) routes. Summer bus routes shall be posted for bid between the last day of the regular school session and the beginning of the summer school session.
e.	Widener Memorial Bus chauffeurs shall bid each summer for Widener Memorial Bus Routes which will operate during summer school sessions. If the number of Widener Memorial Bus Routes during the summer sessions are less than the number of bus chauffeur's classified as Widener Memorial Bus Chauffeurs, the bus chauffeurs who do not have summer session routes shall be classified as Extras and assigned first to Widener Memorial routes and thereafter to ESY or other routes.
74
75
Article XXI
driver is considered nearest the pick-up point, the work assignment or trip shall be rotated among the group of drivers;
(ii)	. Any work assignment or trip that begins before and extends for a period not to exceed three (3) hours beyond the end of the work day, shall be assigned from the garage overtime list on a rotating basis;
(iii)	. Any work assignment or trip that begins after the end of the work day, but does not exceed three (3) hours, shall be assigned from the garage overtime list on a rotating basis;
(iv)	. Any work assignment or trip that begins after the work day and exceeds three (3) hours, shall be assigned from the system overtime list
d.	On a School District holiday when a group of routes are consolidated to serve only non-public schools, the most senior chauffeur assigned to one of the regular routes in that group shall be offered the opportunity to drive that consolidated route. He/she shall work out of the garage designated for the consolidated route and for the number of hours designated for said route.
e.	In case of emergencies, such as fires, floods, major disaster, or other emergencies beyond the control of the Superintendent any employees may be assigned any work in the Transportation Division deemed necessary.
f.	Regular part time chauffeurs substituting on a full time route shall follow such route schedule for that work day. Overtime shall not be included in such route assignment and shall be governed by this section as set forth above in paragraph c (iii).
Section 7.	Seniority
a.	Seniority for purposes of bidding and for promotion shall be dated from the date of a driver's qualification for a part time position.
b.	When a part time Bus Chauffeurs does not exercise his/her option to select a full time position in seniority order, he/she will not be given the opportunity to displace a less senior employees who selected the full time position in his/her place.
Section 8.	Assignment of School Aides, Bus Attendants
A line of progression shall exist for all Bus Attendant, School Aide I, School Aide II, and School Aide III vacancies.
The entrance level to any such vacancy shall be by an examination given by the Personnel Department and shall be at the Bus Attendant level in whichever location has a vacancy. On the basis of seniority, all Bus Attendants, School Aides I, II, and III shall be permitted to advance from the Bus Attendant classification through the following classifications in the order shown below.
78
Article XXI
1.	Bus Attendant
2.	School Aide I
3.	School Aide III
4.	School Aide II
Section 9.	Bus Attendant transfers will be accomplished on the second school organization day in September and shall proceed as follows:
Section 9a. A list containing all pertinent route information will be prepared and made available as far in advance of the bidding date as possible.
Section 9b. The process of transfer shall be accomplished in one session at a designated time, date, and place beginning with the most senior Bus Attendant. A Bus Attendant who cannot be present for the transfer process may have a shop steward submit in his/her bid. If a Bus Attendant arrives after his/her designated time for bid, the Bus Attendant shall be required to wait until everyone has bid in that session. Any employees demoted for cause or suspended shall not be able to bid for promotion for a period of one year following such disciplinary action.
Section 9c. All positions filled by new employees from the eligibility list after the previous September transfers shall be posted as vacancies for the following year’s transfer and all such new employees shall be required to bid for permanent assignments.
Section 9d. If the route held in June by a currently appointed Bus Attendant no longer exists at the time of the September transfer procedure, such employees shall be given the opportunity to transfer to a vacant position with all other employees in seniority order.
They shall then be afforded the opportunity for a transfer to a vacant position with all other employees in seniority order.
Section 9e. Any currently appointed Bus Attendant shall be entitled to transfer to any vacant position in accordance with their classification seniority. Where classification seniority is equal, School District seniority as defined in Article XVIII, Section 1, shall be the determining factor.
Section 9f. If, during the school year, the position of a bus attendant is eliminated, such bus attendant shall be offered any bus attendant vacancy.
If, during the school year, bus attendant routes are altered by changes in garage or school, such bus attendants shall be offered new assignments when all changes have been finalized and a clear picture of vacancies has emerged.
The new assignments shall be offered in order of departmental seniority and shall be in effect only for that school year.
Section 10.	The bidding for School Aide I assignments will be accomplished on the first school organization day in September and shall proceed as follows:
79
Article XXII
Section 10a. Lists containing all pertinent route information will be prepared and made available at least seven (7) calendar days in advance of the bidding date and posted at all district garages.
Section 10b. The process of bidding shall be accomplished in one (1) session at a designated time, date, and place beginning with the most senior School Aide I. A School Aide I who cannot be present for the bidding process may have a shop steward submit his/her bid. If a School Aide I arrives after his/her designated time for bid, the School Aide I shall be required to wait until everyone has bid in that session. Any employees demoted for cause or suspended shall not be able to bid for promotion for a period of one (1) year following such disciplinary action.
Section 11a. Vacancies in the School Aide I classification shall be filled by promotion of the most senior Bus Attendant.
Section 11b. Vacancies in the School Aide III classification shall be filled by transfer by the senior School Aide III. All remaining vacancies shall be filled by promotion of the senior School Aide I.
Section 11c. Vacancies in the School Aide II classification shall be filled by transfer by the senior School Aide II. All remaining vacancies shall be filled by promotion of the senior School Aide III.
Section 11d. An employees appointed to a position which is subsequently eliminated at his/her work location shall be considered as a forced transfer. He/she shall carry all accumulated building seniority to his/her new location.
Section 12. If a Bus Attendant and School Aide I is placed in a lower paid classification because such employee has no position available in his/her classification, the employee shall retain the hourly rate of the former classification as a red-circled rate until such time as the rate for the new classification reaches the red-circled rate after which the employee shall be entitled to such increases as are applicable to the classification to which he/she has moved.
ARTICLE XXII SHOP STEWARDS
Section 1. No more than one (1) Shop Steward shall be designated by the Facilities Department Employees in each school location having five (5) or more custodial employees assigned thereto. Such Shop Steward shall not be entitled to be involved in any matter covered by this contract in any other work location.
Section 2. For all of the schools having four (4) or less custodial Employees a total of two (2) Shop Stewards shall be designated by the Union, each of whom with the prior approval in each instance of the Director of Facilities Services, shall be entitled to visit any such school for a reasonable time in the event a custodial employee has a complaint or grievance which, by its serious and immediate emergency nature, requires the presence of a Shop Steward. No more than one (1) of the two (2) Shop Stewards shall be permitted to leave his/her work location during his working hours for this purpose, for any one grievance.
80
Article XXIII
Section 3. Effective January 1,2000, each of the eight (8) new craft classifications shall have two (2) stewards. Asbestos, Landscaping and Pest Control shall each have one (1) Steward. When a complaint or grievance of an employees in one of such groups is of a serious, immediate and emergency nature as to require the Shop Steward to leave his/her work location and appear at the Office of the Manager of Maintenance during his working hours, then with prior approval of the Director of Facilities Services, he/she will be permitted to do so for a reasonable time under the circumstances. Such Shop Steward shall not be entitled to be involved in any matter covered by Uiis contract for any other employees or group of Employees.
Section 4.	No more than (1) Shop Steward shall be designated by the Warehouse Department Employees in each Warehouse location. Such Shop Steward shall not be entitled to be involved in any matter covered by this contract in any other work location.
Section 5.	No more than one (1) Shop Steward shall be designated by the Transportation Employees in each garage location except if the number of Employees exceeds 125. Such Shop Steward shall not be entitled to be involved in any matter covered by this contract in any other work location.
Section 6.	All Shop Stewards in the departments referred to in Section 1 to Section 5 above and the Shop Stewards referred to in Section 8 and 9 below shall not lose any pay for the time, approved by the Director of the Department, spent in connection with any grievance referred to in such Sections.
Section 7a. No more than (1) Shop Steward shall be designated by the School Aides I and II at any work location having five (5) or more such Employees assigned thereto. Such Shop Steward shall not be entitled to be involved in any matter covered by this Agreement in any other work location.
Section 7b. In work locations having four (4) or less School Aides assigned thereto, the Union Shop Steward designated in accordance with existing practice shall serve as the Shop Steward for such School Aides.
Section 8.	No more than one (1) Shop Steward shall be designated for the Building Construction Inspectors in the Office of Architecture, Engineering and Construction Service. Such Shop Steward shall not be entitled to be involved in any matter covered by this Agreement in any other work location.
Section 9.	No more than one (1) Shop Steward shall be designated for asbestos abatement workers. Such Shop Steward shall not be entitled to be involved in any matter covered by this Agreement for Employees in any other classification.
ARTICLE XXIII SAVING CLAUSE
Section 1. If any provision of this Agreement is, or shall at any time be, contrary to law, then such provision shall not be applicable, performed or enforced. In such event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall continue in effect.
81
Articles XXIV, XXV, XXVI, XXVII
ARTICLE XXIV AMENDMENTS
Section 1. This Agreement may not be amended, altered or modified except by writing signed by the Superintendent on behalf of the School District and the President and Vice President with the approval of the Union's International President, or his designee, on behalf of the Union.
ARTICLE XXV
ENTIRETY OF AGREEMENT
It is expressly understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that this Agreement sets forth all the promises, agreements, conditions, and understandings between the parties and that there are no promises, agreements, conditions or understandings, either oral or written between them other than set forth herein.
ARTICLE XXVI NO REPRISAL CLAUSE
The Union agrees that neither it nor its representatives will commit or encourage any acts of reprisal or retaliation against any employees or representative of the School District of Philadelphia on account of any strike activities. The Superintendent agrees that neither he/she nor any designee or representative will commit or encourage any acts of retaliation or reprisal against any member of the Union on account of any strike activity.
ARTICLE XXVII DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1. This Agreement shall be in full force from September 1,1999 to midnight, August 31, 2003, and shall continue from year to year unless and until either party hereto shall give the other party (60) days' written notice of intention to open negotiations for a new Agreement in accordance with the procedure and time schedule as outlined in applicable law.
82
THE SCHOOL DISTRICT OF PHILADELPHIA
Supferititenderlt'of Schools
NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF FIREMEN AND OILERS LOCAL 1201, AFFILIATED WITH THE SERVICE Employees INTERNATIONAL UNION, AFL-CIO
President
President, Board of Education
83