ARTICLE I	- RECOGNITION
SECTION A
The District School Board of Pasco County, hereinafter called the "Board", recognizes the United School Employees of Pasco, hereinafter called the "Union", as the exclusive bargaining representative of all teachers in the school district known and designated as Pasco County School District. Instructional bargaining unit members as provided for in this contract is defined by the positions listed in Addendum C of this Agreement and any new instructional position established for which the Board and Union have mutually agreed should be included or PERC has rendered a decision of inclusion and there is no pending appeal. Addendum C will be revised each school year by mutual agreement of the Board and the Union.
As defined above, this would mutually amend the educational employees listed as included and exclude those listed as excluded by the Public Employees Relations Commission (PERC) in the April 17, 1975, Order of Certification.
SECTION B
When a new job description/position title is approved by the Board, the Union will have the right to request in writing that the position be included for excluded from the bargaining unit, stating the reasons for said inclusion or exclusion. The Superintendent shall respond within five (5) days. If the Union request is denied, the Superintendent shall state in writing the reasons for rejection in his/her response. In the event of a disagreement on the issue of any specific job description/position title, PERC shall be petitioned for a ruling on the inclusion or exclusion of the position. Any person placed in a contested position shall upon a ruling by PERC for inclusion in the addition of bargaining unit receive all rights granted under this Agreement from the time of initial placement.
SECTION C
The Union recognizes the Board as the duly constituted legislative body and agrees to bargain collectively only with the chief executive officer of the Board or his/her designee.
END OF ARTICLE I
ARTICLE II	- DEFINITIONS
SECTION A
The term teacher shall refer to personnel named as such in Article I, Section A, of this Agreement and all other personnel who may be included as members of the bargaining unit under the provisions of Article I, Section B, of this Agreement.
SECTION B
The term Union or USEP shall refer to the United School Employees of Pasco and all duly authorized representatives thereof.
SECTION C
The term day shall refer to the working day for teachers.
SECTION D
The term district shall refer to the school district of Pasco County.
SECTION E
The term Board shall refer to the District School Board of Pasco County.
SECTION F
The term Superintendent shall refer to the Superintendent of Schools of Pasco County or his/her designee.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION
Page 1
SECTION G
The term principal shall refer to the head of any school or work location and/or function division or group or his/her designee.
SECTION H
The term school shall mean all buildings on the school site and shall include any work location to which teachers are assigned to carry out their teaching responsibilities and which is under the jurisdiction of the District School Board of Pasco County.
SECTION I
The term building shall refer to each individual permanent building on the school site.
SECTION J
The term Agreement shall mean the full and complete agreements between the Union and the Board, duly ratified and signed as set forth in this document.
SECTION K
The term year shall refer to the school year.
SECTION L
The term extracurricular shall refer to any scheduled assignment for which supplementary pay is granted.
SECTION M
The term Union representative or USEP representative shall refer to a duly authorized agent of the Union.
SECTION N
The term cost center shall mean any function group or division or school that receives monies allocated by the Board.
SECTION O
The term preplanning shall mean those days designated as teacher planning days scheduled prior to the first day of school for students.
SECTION P
The term student day(s) shall mean the day(s) and hours set for students to attend school.
SECTION Q
The term planning days shall mean those days designated as teacher planning days and scheduled prior to, during, or after the school year.
SECTION R
The term academic quarter shall mean the normal school grading period of approximately forty-five (45) student days.
SECTION S
The term Union President or USEP President shall refer to the President of the United School Employees of Pasco or his/her designee.
END OF ARTICLE II
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS
Page 2
ARTICLE III	- UNION RIGHTS
SECTION A	- Implementation
1.	The Board shall make available to the Union any and all public information, statistics, and records concerning the school district, which the Union may deem to be relevant to negotiations or necessary for the proper enforcement of this Agreement. The word "public", as used in this section, shall refer to any documents, reports, statistics, studies, and other such information in the form in which they are regularly kept. Materials prepared in multiple form for distribution to the public and/or media shall be provided to the Union at no cost. If additional information is requested by the Union and said material does not exist in multiple form, the Union shall pay for the actual cost of duplication of such material, not to exceed fifteen (15) cents per sheet.
2.	Teachers serving on committees, councils, or other advisory groups shall be selected by the Superintendent from a list of recommended representatives elected by a majority vote of the teachers in each school, department, and/or grade level, whichever is applicable. No subject which is properly a matter of negotiations shall be considered by any teacher committee not authorized by this Agreement.
3.	The principal of the school shall meet at mutually agreed times during the school year with the representatives of the Union, at the request of the Union, to discuss questions and problems as well as matters relating to the implementation of this Agreement. Such meeting shall not be construed to replace the grievance procedure for any matter normally the subject of a grievance.
4.	The Union shall appear on the Board agenda at all Board meetings as a regular agenda item. Further, the Union representative shall be recognized upon request to speak on issues before the Board in the same manner as any other individual. A copy of the agenda and all supporting data will be provided to the Union by the Secretary of the Board. Said materials shall be sent to the Union office at the same time they are sent to the Board members.
5,	Duly authorized representatives of the Union may visit schools to investigate employee complaints and/or communicate with teachers. Upon arrival at the school, Union representatives shall make their presence known to the school principal or his/her designee. If the principal does not approve the representatives' visit at that particular time, he/she will explain the reason to the representatives. Such visits shall not be carried out during pupil contact time of the involved teacher(s).
6.	Whenever teachers are scheduled by the Board or its agents to participate during working hours in conferences, meetings, or in negotiations respecting the Collective Bargaining Agreement, they shall be granted the necessary time and shall suffer no loss in pay.
7.	Each year upon reaching a tentative Agreement in negotiations and prior to ratification, a district meeting shall be conducted by USEP for Union representatives during the school day for the purpose of explanation of the tentative Agreement and contract ratification procedures. Each school shall be allowed to send up to two (2) representatives selected by the USEP president. The representatives attending the district meeting shall be granted one-half (1/2) day leave and shall suffer no loss in pay. The cost of substitutes shall be paid for by the Board.
8.	A roster of all teachers assigned to a school or schools shall be provided to the Union representative of said school by September 10, and revised rosters shall be provided when issued. Each teacher in the bargaining unit will receive a directory of all instructional personnel by November 15 of each school year. This directory shall be listed alphabetically for all affected personnel as well as school-by-school. Copies of this directory shall not be distributed to any outside parties for commercial or solicitation purposes, except as required by law.
9.	Following ratification and printing, copies of all Agreements and addenda thereto between the parties shall be distributed to the worksites by the Union and the Board. The Union will distribute a copy to each employee covered by this Agreement at each worksite. The Union will make every effort to distribute this Agreement to teachers hired after each year’s initial distribution within twenty (20) working days of the date the newly-hired teacher is approved by the Board. The Board and Union will mutually arrange for the printing of the Agreement. The Board shall contribute one-half (1/2) the cost of printing the Agreement. The parties shall agree to the specified number, size, format, and cost of copies.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE III - UNION RIGHTS
Page 3
10.	The Board shall grant leave without pay to the Union president and up to three (3) teachers designated by the Union for the purpose of engaging in Union activities. The leaves shall count toward accruing seniority and Pasco continuous service. The teachers on leave may participate in all group fringe benefit plans provided by the Board by making their own and the Board's regular contribution to all benefits requiring such contribution. The leaves of absence shall be for a period of up to one (1) year at a time except for the president's leave which shall be for the term of office and automatically be renewed each year. At the conclusion of the leaves, the teachers shall be returned to the teaching positions held at the commencement of the leaves if such positions exist.
11.	The Board will allow Union representatives time off to attend local, state, or national workshops, conferences, conventions, and other related activities for up to fifteen (15) days per school year. Further, the Board agrees that additional days may be granted if the Union reimburses the district for the full costs of the required substitute(s). However, if said days used by the Union representatives are planning or staff development days, the Union will not be charged for substitute(s) for such days.
12.	Professional leave shall be granted for teachers to attend statewide conferences, conventions, and/or related activities held on the statewide conference day in October and to attend Board-approved, USEP-sponsored staff development on district-wide staff development days with prior approval of the principal. Teachers will not be released on district-wide staff development days to attend USEP-sponsored staff development when it conflicts with a required staff development activity scheduled by the principal. Up to twenty-three (23) teachers shall be granted Union leave to attend the Florida Education Association (FEA) Convention or the FEA Leadership Conference. The Board shall pay the cost of the required substitutes for such teachers. Such Union leave shall be in addition to the leave days authorized under paragraph 11 of this section.
SECTION B	- Payroll Deduction
1.	Upon authorization by any teacher, the Board agrees to deduct at no cost to the teacher the amount of dues certified by the Union as the amount required of all members and remit the amount so deducted to the Union. The Board will be authorized to make said deduction upon receiving the signed authorization form attached as Appendix A of this Agreement.
a)	All funds collected by the Board as a result of dues deductions shall be remitted by the Board to the Union within ten (10) days of the deduction.
b)	Dues deductions shall be continuous from year to year so long as the employee organization remains the certified bargaining agent for the unit.
c)	Authorizations are revocable by the employees with thirty (30) days notice to both the Board and the Union.
2.	The Board shall supply to the Union a list of those teachers from whom said payroll deductions have been made after each pay period.
3.	The Union shall indemnify and save the Board harmless from any and all claims, demands, suits, and causes of action of any kind whatsoever arising from Board actions to comply with the provisions of this section.
SECTION C	- Use of Facilities
1.	The Union may use school building facilities for meetings upon prior approval of the school principal. Approval will be withheld only for good and sufficient reason, which shall be stated to the person making the request. In each school, for a maximum of five (5) times per year, a meeting called by the Union for that school's teachers may be scheduled during fifteen (15) minutes of the teacher workday provided that such a schedule does not interfere with student contact time. Further, two (2) additional meetings not to exceed two (2) hours each may be held during the school day for the purpose of contract explanation and/or ratification.
2.	The Union shall have the right to conduct regularly scheduled Building Representative Council meetings in school building facilities.
3.	The Union may use school building facilities for countywide or area meetings, upon prior approval of the school principal. Approval will be withheld only for good and sufficient reason, which shall be stated to the person making the request. The meetings are to be conducted after the teacher's working day is completed.
4.	The Union may be charged the customary fee for custodial services made necessary by use described in paragraphs 2 and 3 above.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE III - UNION RIGHTS
Page 4
5.	The Union shall have the right to use the school mailboxes and electronic network for the purpose of communicating with teachers. The electronic network shall not be used for internal or external political activities.
6.	The Union shall have the right to post notices of activities and matters of Union concern on bulletin boards specifically assigned exclusively for use by the Union. Said bulletin boards shall not be less than 12 square feet in size, at least one (1) of which shall be provided in each school. Further, said bulletin boards shall be in a readily visible area.
7.	The Union shall receive written notice on or before August 1 of any district orientation meeting for incoming teachers. Further, the Union shall be given a place on the agenda of any district orientation program for incoming teachers. Should a school have an orientation meeting for new teachers, the school Union representative upon request shall be given a place on the agenda of one (1) meeting selected by the principal.
The Board will provide the Union with a list of newly hired teachers within seven (7) days of the teachers’ appointments by the Board.
END OF ARTICLE III
ARTICLE IV	- FAIR PRACTICES
SECTION A
1.	The Board hereby agrees that every teacher shall have the right freely to organize, join, and support the Union including, but not limited to, the displaying of union materials, buttons, pins, apparel, etc. Any such items will be consistent with school and/or district attire and rules. The Board and the Union agree that they will not directly or indirectly discourage, deprive, or coerce any teacher in the enjoyment of any rights conferred by this Agreement.
2.	Further, the Board and the Union, including their agents, mutually agree not to discriminate against any teacher in regard to any of the rights, guarantees, or privileges afforded teachers under the terms of this Agreement.
SECTION B
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to deny or restrict rights to any teacher he/she may have under the Florida School Laws or other applicable laws and regulations.
END OF ARTICLE IV
ARTICLE V	- SENIORITY
SECTION A
1.	Seniority shall be the length of continuous service of a teacher in the school system. Continuous service shall be determined in reference to unbroken service in the district with each year in which a teacher has been under contract for at least one (1) day more than one-half (1/2) the normal contract length for the position counted as one (1) year of service with the following exception: If a teacher takes ten (10) or more successive days of unpaid leave, these days shall be deducted from the contract length, and if this deduction reduces the contract length to less than one (1) day more than one-half (1/2) the normal contract length for the position, the year shall not be counted.
2.	If it becomes necessary to establish precedence among teachers with the same seniority, the beginning date of employment shall be used. Leave duly authorized and granted in accordance with provisions of this Agreement shall not constitute a break in service.
SECTION B
The Board shall provide to the Union an alphabetical list of the names of all teachers employed in the district. Said list shall also contain total number of years of continuous service in the district as determined by the District School Board of Pasco County. This list shall be made available by October 1 of each school year. Further, the Board agrees to provide the Union monthly with a list of all teachers employed after the original list was submitted to the Union. Teacher seniority lists will be posted in each school when notification is given that an involuntary transfer from that school is planned. The cost of this service to the Union shall be $60 per year.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE IV - FAIR PRACTICES
Page 5
END OF ARTICLE V
ARTICLE VI	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
SECTION A - Definitions
1.	A grievance is a complaint by a teacher or by a group of teachers that there has been a violation, misinterpretation, or misapplication of this Agreement and shall be subject to settlement under all provisions of this article.
2.	When a complaint arises alleging that:
a)	a policy or practice is improper or unfair; or
b)	there has been a deviation from a misinterpretation or misapplication of a practice or policy; or
c)	there has been unfair or inequitable treatment by reason of an act or condition contrary to existing policy or practice.
Such complaint shall be subject to settlement under all provisions of this article excluding Step Five.
SECTION B	- General Application
1.	With regard to items of the Agreement covering Union rights, the Union shall have the right to present, process, or appeal a grievance at any level in its own behalf.
2.	The Union has the right to represent the teacher at any level of the procedure. The teacher shall have the right to be represented by legal counsel or any person(s) he/she deems necessary at any step of this procedure.
3.	A grievance shall be first filed at the level where the alleged action(s) occurred that led to the filing of the complaint and processed in accordance with all subsequent steps thereafter as outlined in this article.
4.	No decision or adjustment of a grievance shall be contrary to any provision of this Agreement existing between the parties hereto.
5.	The Union shall have the right to be present at all meetings after Step One regarding a grievance regardless of the party filing the grievance.
6.	Failure to communicate the decision of a grievance at any step of this procedure within the specified time limit shall permit the Union to submit an appeal at the next step of this procedure. However, time limits, as specified, may be extended at any time by mutual agreement in writing.
7.	In the event that a grievance is filed at such time that it cannot be processed through all of the steps in the grievance procedure by the end of the school year, the time limits set forth herein shall be reduced to the extent possible so that Steps One to Three of the procedure may be completed prior to the end of the school year.
8.	No reprisal of any kind shall be taken by or against any participant in the grievance procedure by reason of such participation. No entry of any kind concerning a teacher's participation in a grievance shall be entered into his/her personnel file.
9.	All parties agree that these proceedings shall be kept as confidential as may be appropriate at each level of the procedure.
10.	Whenever meetings for resolving grievances are scheduled during the school day, the Union representative and/or grievant will be allotted released time without loss of pay, and a substitute shall be provided by the Board.
11.	No member of the bargaining unit shall be represented by another employee organization.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Page 6
SECTION C	- Procedure
Step One: Any teacher who feels that he/she may have a grievance may first discuss the grievance with the principal, either directly or accompanied by the Union representative, with the object of solving the matter informally.
Step Two: In the event that the matter is not resolved informally, the formal grievance stated in writing may be submitted to the immediate supervisor at the level of filing, the Union, and the Superintendent, with one copy for the grievant. A formal grievance shall be filed as soon as possible after the action giving rise to the grievance but no later than twenty (20) days after the grievant knew or could reasonably have been expected to know of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance.
a.	Within five (5) days after the receipt of the formal grievance, the principal shall hold a formal hearing on the grievance.
b.	The grievant and the Union representative shall be given at least one (1) day's written notice of the hearing.
c.	Within five (5) days after the hearing, the principal shall communicate his/her decision in writing together with supporting reasons.
d.	the principal shall furnish one (1) copy to each grievant, one (1) copy to the Union representative and one (1) copy to the Union president.
Step Three: If the grievance is not resolved satisfactorily, the grievant and/or Union may appeal within five (5) days to the Superintendent of Schools. The appeal shall be in writing and shall include a copy of the original appeal and the decision arrived at in Step Two.
a)	Within ten (10) days after the receipt of the appeal, the Superintendent shall hold a hearing on the grievance.
b)	The grievant, the Union representative, and the principal shall be given at least two (2) days written notice of the hearing. Said notice shall contain the time and place of such hearing.
c)	The grievant shall be present at the hearing unless there is mutual agreement that no facts are in dispute and that the sole question before the Superintendent is one of interpretation of a provision of the Agreement between the parties thereof or of what is established policy or practice.
d)	Within five (5) days after the hearing on the appeal, the Superintendent shall communicate his/her decision in writing together with supporting reasons. The Superintendent shall furnish one (1) copy to each grievant, one (1) copy to the Union representative and one (1) copy to the Union president.
Step Four: If the grievance is not resolved satisfactorily, the Union may appeal the grievance within five (5) days to the Board. The appeal shall be in writing and shall include a copy of the original appeal and the decision at Steps Two and Three. The Union may waive this step for any grievance filed. If this step is waived, the grievance may be appealed directly to Step Five upon mutual agreement of the Board and the Union if no satisfactory resolution has been reached at Step Three.
a)	Within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the appeal, the Board shall hold a hearing.
b)	The grievant, the Union representative or representatives, the principal, the Superintendent, and the president of the Union shall be given written notice at least two (2) days prior to the hearing.
c)	Within fifteen (15) days after the hearing on the appeal, the Board shall communicate its decision in writing together with its supporting reasons. The Board shall furnish one (1) copy to each grievant, one (1) copy to the Union representative and one (1) copy to the Union president.
Step Five: If a grievance involving the application or interpretation of this Agreement is not resolved satisfactorily at Step Four, the grievant, through the Union, may appeal within five (5) days directly to the American Arbitration Association for binding arbitration.
a)	The arbitrator shall be selected through procedures and governed by the rules established by the American Arbitration Association.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VI - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Page 7
b)	The decision and award of the arbitrator shall be in writing and shall set forth opinions and conclusions on the issues submitted to him/her at the time of the hearing.
c)	The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding.
d)	The cost of filing for arbitration through the American Arbitration Association, the fee and expenses of the arbitrator and any court reporter shall be borne by the losing party. Any other costs connected with arbitration shall be borne by the party incurring the costs.
e)	Nothing in the foregoing shall be construed to empower the arbitrator to make any decisions amending, changing, subtracting from, or adding to the provisions of this Agreement.
END OF ARTICLE VI
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
SECTION A - Contracts
1.	Annual Contract
a) A teacher is an annual contract teacher until such time as he/she obtains continuing contract or professional service contract in the school district. Teachers employed on an annual contract basis are considered to be on a probationary status.
2.	Temporary Contract
a)	A teacher is a temporary contracted employee if he/she is employed after the beginning of the school year.
b)	It is expressly understood and agreed that neither the temporary contract teacher nor the School Board owes any further contractual obligation to each other after the termination date specified in the individual teacher's contract.
3.	Professional Service Contract and Continuing Contract
a)	A teacher will be eligible to receive a professional service contract (PSC) as provided by Florida Statute 1012.33(3)(a).
b)	If a teacher has previously held a PSC in the district or from another district within the state, the teacher may be granted a PSC upon recommendation for his/her second year of employment in the district.
c)	A continuing contract (CC) is not subject to being issued after July 1, 1984. If a teacher has previously held a continuing contract within the state and is employed or reemployed, the teacher may be granted a PSC upon recommendation for his/her second year of employment in the district.
4.	Positions which the district is obligated to provide to outside agencies or for nonrecurring special grants will be considered non-continuous employment positions.
Any teacher new to the district or returning, after a break in service employed in a non-continuous position, will be informed that the district owes no further obligation to him/her should his/her position be eliminated. Such a teacher will be given written notice of his/her non-continuous employment status and be required to sign confirmation of notification each year. The Board will provide to the Union a copy of the confirmation of notification signed by teachers filling non-continuous positions.
A teacher transferring from a regular teaching position to a non-continuous position will be placed in a position for which he/she is qualified in the judgment of the Superintendent should his/her non-continuous position be eliminated.
SECTION B - Resignations
1.	Any teacher who resigns from his/her position during the term of his/her individual contract shall be released from employment by the Board without prejudice provided that said teacher has given notice of such intent at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the termination date. However, as provided by 1012.33(3)(a)4, Florida Statutes, any teacher in the 97-day probationary period of his/her initial annual contract may resign upon immediate notice. Such resignation will not be a breach of contract.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 8
SECTION C - Dismissal
1.	Any teacher who is suspended, discharged, returned to annual contract status, or retained on a fourth-year annual contract shall be notified in writing of the reason for such action. However, as provided by 1012.33(3)(a)4, Florida Statues, any teacher in the 97-day probationary period of his/her initial annual contract may be terminated without cause.
2.	Any teacher who is to be returned to annual contract or retained on fourth-year annual contract or nonreappointed on annual contract shall be notified in writing by April 1 of his/her contractual status for the next school year.
3.	For the purposes of dismissal, return to or continuation of annual contract status, and suspension, the procedures in Florida Statutes shall prevail.
4.	All recommendations regarding individual contract status or for continued employment shall be based primarily upon information contained in the teacher's official file except in the following cases:
a)	positions affected by a reduction in personnel, or
b)	positions filled by teachers in their 97-day probationary period of their initial annual contract as provided by 1012.33(3)(a)4, Florida Statutes.
5.	Any teacher required to attend a meeting called by the administration for the purpose of a reprimand which will become part of the teacher’s record or for action leading to suspension or for an investigatory interview shall have the right of Union representation at such a meeting. If during a meeting as described above, the teacher believes that the discussion could lead to disciplinary action, the teacher may ask that the meeting be delayed or rescheduled until Union representation can be provided. This section shall not be interpreted to apply to conferences relating to observation or evaluation of instruction.
6.	The district supports the concept of “progressive discipline” and encourages its application when appropriate.
7.	A teacher will be advised immediately if the Board has initiated or is cooperating with the Education Practices Commission in an investigation of said teacher.
SECTION D	- Promotional Vacancies
1.	Whenever a promotional vacancy shall occur in a professional position in the school district for which certification is required, the Board shall publicize the same by giving written notice to the Union and by providing for appropriate posting in all schools.
2.	A teacher who desires to apply for any such vacancy shall file his/her application in writing with the District Office.
3.	When in judgment of the Board qualifications and ability are relatively equal, preference in filling vacancies within the bargaining unit shall be given to the employee with the greatest length of service in the school district.
4.	The Board agrees to give full consideration to the professional background and attainments of applicants for administrative openings.
SECTION E	- Transfers and Reassignments
1.	A notice of all known teaching vacancies, including newly created positions, shall be sent to the Union and posted in each school and in the District Office. The Board shall have posted in each school and the Human Resources Director's office a list of those known vacancies recorded in the District Office for the coming year by April 15.
2.	Teachers who desire a change in grade or subject assignment or who desire to transfer to another building or position shall file a written statement of such desire on the appropriate form. One (1) copy of the form shall be filed with the District Office and one (1) copy may be filed with the Union if the teacher so desires. Such request shall be reviewed by the principals at least once each year and will remain valid for a period of twelve (12) months following date of application.
3.	Teachers who desire to transfer to a specific position(s) in another school(s) shall make their interest known to the principal within the advertised period.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 9
4.	No assignment of teachers to a specific position in the school district shall be made until all pending requests for reassignment or transfer to that position have been given due consideration. District seniority shall be given due consideration in assignments for voluntary transfers.
5.	Teachers who have requested transfers or reassignments shall be notified in writing of the administration's action on said transfer or reassignment as soon as possible.
SECTION F	- Involuntary Transfers
1.	Staff Reduction
a)	Involuntary transfers may occur due to staff reduction in a department and/or grade level within a school or the closing of an existing facility. The Board shall notify the Union within ten (10) days after the determination that involuntary transfers must occur. Teachers shall not be subject to involuntary transfer to an alternative school for disruptive students.
b)	In case of staff reduction in a school, volunteers will be transferred first to positions for which they are qualified in the judgment of the Superintendent. Involuntary transfers will then be assigned to positions for which they are qualified in the judgment of the Superintendent. Teachers who are being involuntarily transferred by the district for reasons of staff reduction in a school shall have priority on assignment to open positions over all voluntary transfers.
c)	Involuntary transfers as described in paragraph "a" shall be based on seniority in Pasco County. The teacher with the least amount of seniority among those assigned to the school in which the reduction occurs, within the area of assignment affected, shall be first transferred. In grades Pre-K (K)-5 "area of assignment" shall mean: Pre-K and K, or elementary grades 1-5.
d)	Teachers transferred under this provision shall not be again subject to involuntary transfers for a period of one (1) year. Should a position become available at the same school from which a teacher was involuntarily transferred due to a staff reduction, the teacher shall have the opportunity to return to such school, subject to all of the following conditions:
1)	The same or similar position needs to be filled no later than the end of the school year following the school year of the transfer.
2)	The position is in the same area of assignment from which the teacher was transferred.
3)	The teacher is certified for the position.
4)	The teacher is qualified for the position in the judgment of the Superintendent.
In cases in which more than one teacher has been involuntarily transferred from the same area of assignment, at the same school, and meet the above conditions, the teacher with the most seniority shall first be given the option to return.
e.	Should it become necessary to reduce the number of staff members at an alternative school for disruptive students the school principal after receiving the recommendations relative to the program needs from the staff, will determine the teacher(s) to be transferred. Teachers selected for involuntary transfers shall be given notice of the involuntary transfers and the reason therefore in writing.
f.	The procedures described in paragraphs "a" through "e" are not intended to apply to individual involuntary transfers related to performance or other problems.
2.	Teacher Replacing a Teacher on Extended Leave
A regular employed teacher on annual contract, professional service contract, or continuing contract who transfers to an open position replacing a teacher on extended leave shall be subject to an involuntary transfer should the person on leave return to his/her position. Upon accepting such position, the teacher will be notified in writing that he/she may be subject to such transfer. This does not apply to a person newly hired to the district to replace a person on leave as governed by Article VIII, Section A-6 a).
3.	Performance Problems
Before recommending an involuntary transfer based upon any performance problems, the Superintendent or his designee shall give notice of the performance problem(s) and time to address and respond to the concerns, and unless extenuating circumstances exist, the instructional bargaining unit member will be offered assistance and time to address and resolve the concerns. In addition, the following procedures shall apply:
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 10
a)	Instructional bargaining unit members affected by recommendations for such an involuntary transfer which have been proposed for the upcoming year will be notified on or before May 1, unless extenuating circumstances exist.
b)	A conference will be held, if requested by the instructional bargaining unit members, between the instructional bargaining unit member and the Superintendent and/or his/her designee to discuss the reasons for recommending a transfer, and to allow the instructional bargaining unit members the opportunity to present his/her side of the matter and his/her position regarding being transferred. Any instructional bargaining unit member attending a conference will have the right of Union representation upon the instructional bargaining unit member's request. A written report of the conference with an instructional bargaining unit member concerning a recommended transfer will be given to the instructional bargaining unit member within ten (10) working days of the conference.
c)	The instructional bargaining unit members will receive written notice of the recommendation of the Superintendent of a transfer and will have the opportunity to appear at the School Board meeting at which the transfer will be presented for approval. Instructional bargaining unit members affected by involuntary transfer shall be notified in writing on or before July 1 as to their assignment for the upcoming year except in an emergency.
d)	The recommendation of the Superintendent and notice of transfer will be placed in the instructional bargaining unit member's official file, along with any conference report as described above concerning an instructional bargaining unit member to be used for official purposes in regard to a transfer, which report will be placed in the instructional bargaining unit member's official file according to provisions of Article VII, Section Q of the Instructional Master Contract.
e)	None of the above shall apply to, restrict, or interfere with (1) investigation of a complaint to an outside agency such as HRS or in the criminal justice system, or (2) the Superintendent's discretion and authority, as provided under Section 1012.27, Florida Statutes, and Florida Administrative Code Rule 6B 4.4005 to transfer any employee during an emergency and report the transfer to the School Board at the next regular meeting, or (3) involuntary transfers as provided for in Article VII, Section F, subsections 1, 2 and 5 of the Instructional Master Contract, and (4) none of the above shall restrict or interfere with the Superintendent's authority as provided under Section 1012.27, Florida Statutes, and Florida Administrative Code Rule 6B-4.005 to recommend transfer of instructional bargaining unit members or the School Board's authority as provided in Section 1012.27, Florida Statutes, to act on the Superintendent's recommendations.
f)	At an alternative school for disruptive students, teachers whose performance is judged to be unsatisfactory by the school principal shall be subject to involuntary transfer twenty five (25) days after the principal has provided the teacher with an opportunity to improve his/her performance and the performance continues to be below expectations. Any such transfer shall be according to the criteria in State Board Rules, 6B-4.005 and the Instructional Master Contract, Article VII, Section F(5). The reason for such transfer shall be discussed with the teacher and, upon the teacher's request, with a Union representative prior to the transfer. At an alternative school for disruptive students the salary of a teacher who is involuntarily transferred to another school shall not be reduced for the remainder of the school year.
g)	Individuals involuntarily transferred for performance or other problems shall also have priority on assignments to open positions over all voluntary transfers.
4.	Teachers affected by involuntary transfers shall be notified in writing on or before July 1 as to their assignments for the oncoming year except in an emergency.
5.	Physical Education and/or Driver Education Teachers
Any teacher initially employed as a physical education or driver's education teacher with a coaching responsibility and who subsequently resigns from the coaching responsibility may be transferred to another school to continue the basic teaching contract. All teachers employed after July 1, 1997, in this category will be notified in writing at the time of employment.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 11
SECTION G	- Reduction in Force
1.	Should it become necessary to reduce the number of teachers in the district, annual contract teachers shall be reduced first as determined by the Superintendent unless special certification for a specific assignment is needed.
2.	If continuing contract or professional service contract teachers are to be affected by a reduction in force, certification and seniority within the district shall be the controlling factors. Seniority for purpose of reduction in force as it affects continuing contract or professional service contract teachers shall be based on seniority going from the least senior to the most senior.
3.	The Board shall maintain a list of teachers affected by a reduction in force for a two (2) year period and will exhaust this list within the limits of certification before hiring new teachers for a two (2) year period. It shall be the duty of a teacher to ensure that the Board has current information regarding place of residence and telephone number. The Board shall rehire from the PSC and CC list based upon certification and seniority. Seniority being from the longest years of continuous service in the district to that of the least years of continuous service in the district.
SECTION H	- Evaluation
1.	During the first two (2) weeks of school, all teachers shall receive a copy of the assessment instrument. This shall include an explanation and discussion of the assessment process. In the event a teacher is employed after the two (2) week period, said instrument and explanations shall be given upon employment.
2.	The administrator making a formal observation shall meet with the teacher within ten (10) school days following the classroom visitation to discuss the teacher's strengths and weaknesses.
3.	All teachers will be evaluated at least once during the school year. Should the administrator responsible for providing the assessment not meet the date designated by the Human Resources Department for the completion of the assessment, the administrator will inform the teacher of the reason for the delay.
4.	After each assessment of a teacher, the teacher shall sign and be given a copy of the assessment instrument. The signature of the teacher shall not necessarily indicate agreement with the assessment but only acknowledges that he/she has read the report.
5.	A teacher shall be given the opportunity to include his/her comments in writing concerning the assessment report. These comments shall be placed in the teacher's personnel file.
6.	In the event a teacher is not performing satisfactorily and prior to issuing a NEAT letter, the administrator will advise the teacher of the specific deficiencies in his/her performance and shall give the teacher sufficient time and assistance to undertake an effort to overcome these deficiencies. Upon issuance of an unsatisfactory evaluation, the administration shall comply with the following NEAT process:
a)	Notify the teacher that deficiencies exist.
b)	Provide a full and complete explanation of deficiencies and suggested corrections.
c)	Provide administrative and supervisory assistance.
d)	Provide reasonable time for correction for deficiencies.
e)	Provide the teacher placement in the Teacher Assistance Program.
7.	Should a teacher receive an unsatisfactory evaluation, the teacher shall be given the option of another evaluation by the administrator to determine if improvements have been made.
8.	Evaluation of lesson plans will be done by administrators only; however, this does not preclude analysis of lesson plans for nonevaluative purposes by other staff members.
9.	As provided by law, all confidentiality of assessment documents relating to the formal evaluation of teacher performance and placed in the teacher's official personnel file, shall be granted by the administration.
10.	A teacher shall not be assigned a position for which he/she is not certified except in cases of emergency. If the Board requires a teacher to accept such an assignment, the fact that the teacher is not certified in the subject area will be noted on any evaluation document and taken into consideration in the assessment of the teacher.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 12
11.	All teachers will be observed officially at least once during the school year. All official observations conducted by district employees shall be made only by school or district-level administrators.
SECTION I	- Staff Development Training
1.	Each school principal will select a representative to coordinate staff development activities at that school. Said coordinators shall be selected from a list of no more than five (5) faculty members who have expressed an interest in coordinating staff development activities and elected by a majority vote of the teachers as nominees for staff development coordinator from their respective schools except that this number may be reduced in schools of fewer than ten (10) teachers. This person will be made known to the faculty during preplanning.
2.	The President of United School Employees of Pasco may elect to serve as co-chairperson of the Professional Staff Development Sub-committee of the District HRTD Committee.
3.	When appropriate, teachers may serve as instructors for staff development components. The total compensation paid to teachers serving as instructors shall be established after consideration of the duration, complexity and expectations for planning and delivering school, regional or district-wide staff development. Such compensation guidelines will be established by the Professional Development Staff Sub-Committee of the District HRTD Committee and presented to the Superintendent and USEP President for approval. Upon approval, such guidelines will be submitted for ratification. Until such guidelines are established and ratified, instructors shall receive one and one-half (1 1/2) times their regular hourly rate of pay for each meeting hour taught. Teachers shall be paid for necessary mileage in performing his/her duties as instructor under this section. Such mileage payment shall be in accordance with Article X, Section A-4, of this Agreement.
4.	Attendance at staff development training components shall be voluntary except when assigned by the Teacher Assistance Team and for those components required to implement additional programs or goals established by the Board, the Legislature, or federal grants. Required staff development shall be reasonable in nature, duration, and scope including any follow-up activities to protect as much time as possible within the teacher workday for adequate lesson preparation and other tasks necessary to effectively fulfill their teaching responsiblities. Further, such required staff development shall be relevant and in accordance with Florida’s Professional Development Protocol Standards. The Board shall strive to strike a balance among district, school, and individual teacher staff development interests and needs.
Nonattendance at voluntary staff development training components shall not be used as a criterion for assessment, transfer, promotion, dismissal, nonrenewal, suspension, or discharge. Further, no teacher shall be required to attend staff development components after the regular school day.
5.	Florida Statute 1003.56 and State Board Rules 6A-1.0503, 6A-4.0244 and 6A-6.0907 require teachers who are assigned limited English proficient students to be properly trained and/or acquire the certification endorsement: English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL).
The District School Board of Pasco County shall provide the necessary training to any teacher who is assigned a limited English proficient student so that the teacher complies with the requirements in Florida Statute and State Board Rules.
6.	The Board recognizes that communication, education and training are critical factors which directly impact the successful implementation of instructional program change and student performance. Prior to implementation, a conscientious effort will be made to provide an explanation of the change to those teachers who are affected. Teachers expected to implement such programs may be provided the opportunity to receive staff development training. Economics permitting, such training may be scheduled during work hours.
7.	Teachers within a specific field shall have first opportunity to attend staff development training program components related to their field. All staff development training components offered within any given calendar month shall be posted in each school by the fifteenth (15th) of the preceding month.
8.	Master staff development points may be used for the purpose of recertification, and each group of twenty (20) points shall be equivalent to one (1) semester hour for this purpose.
9.	To receive compensation for the staff development activity, the teacher must be enrolled for the duration of the time the staff development activity is offered unless the participant is forced to withdraw due to illness
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 13
which is verified by a licensed physician, or other verifiable emergency. To receive staff development points the teacher must successfully complete all requirements, including any follow up activities and/or projects, as reported by the activity leader. Such requirements, including any make-up policies, will be given in writing and announced at the first training class/session.
SECTION J	- Academic Freedom
Academic freedom shall be guaranteed to all teachers, and no arbitrary limitations shall be placed upon study, investigation, presentation, and interpretation of facts and ideas except as may be limited by requirements of applicable laws, regulations which have the effect of law, curriculum content requirements, and the age and educational development level of the child.
SECTION K	- Political Activity
1.	All teachers shall have the freedom of political action when not engaged in their teaching assignments or other assigned responsibilities during the school day provided such action is within the laws of the United States of America and the State of Florida and their teaching positions are not used for their political advantage.
2.	The right of all teachers to work and to vote for the party and candidate of their choice shall never be questioned, abridged, or denied by either the Board or the Union.
3.	All teachers shall be entirely free from political domination, coercion, or the pretended necessity of making political contributions of money or other things of value or engaging in any political work or activity against their wishes under the assumption that failure to do so will in any way affect their status as employees of the school system or as members of the Union.
SECTION L	- School Day
1.	The normal workday for teachers shall be seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours each day including lunch. However, the normal workday for teachers at an alternative school for disruptive students shall be eight (8) hours each day including lunch.
2.	Each teacher shall be ensured of a duty-free lunch period except when students are being supervised on a field trip. The lunch period shall be equal in length to the time scheduled for the student lunch period at that school. Except on days when periods are shortened for assemblies or early dismissal, the teacher lunch period shall be at least thirty (30) minutes in length.
3.	No teacher shall be required to teach more than four (4) consecutive hours without a relief period.
4.	Notification of staff development, faculty and/or district wide meetings which teachers are required to attend shall be given to all involved teachers at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the meeting except in case of emergency.
5.	Except in emergencies or when mutually agreed by teachers, faculty meetings will not extend beyond normal duty hours.
SECTION M	- Teacher Work Year
1.	The teacher work year shall be one hundred ninety-six (196) days. Six (6) of these days shall be paid holidays, making the teachers' work calendar 196 days including paid holidays. However, the teacher work year at an alternative school for disruptive students shall be two hundred four (204) days. Six of these days shall be paid holidays making the teachers' work calendar at an alternative school 204 days including paid holidays.
2.	At the Board's discretion, contracts beyond 196 days may be issued and, in such cases, the additional days are paid at the daily rate established by the teacher's placement on salary schedule #55 and #55A. This provision does not apply to Summer School, rates for which are fixed by Addendum A of this Agreement.
3.	Juvenile Justice Programs - Florida Statute 1003.01(11)(a), requires the district to provide 240 days of instruction for students in the District’s Juvenile Justice Programs. In order to provide these additional services to students in such programs, additional days must be provided for teachers beyond their regular contracts. Therefore, teachers assigned to such programs will have the following additional rights:
a)	The right of first refusal of any and all additional days at the center to which the teacher is assigned. Any teacher choosing not to accept additional days shall not be penalized.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 14
b)	The right to earn up to two (2) additional sick leave days per year at the rate of one (1) day for each twenty (20) additional days worked, if such additional days are consecutive with the teacher’s regular contract.
c)	The right to utilize accumulated sick leave during additional days.
SECTION N	- Non-Teaching Duties
1.	When available, paraprofessionals shall be assigned to assist instructional staff.
2.	Non-teaching tasks and assignments shall be kept to a minimum.
a)	Non-teaching duties shall be assigned fairly and shall be approximately the same with respect to the nature, duration and length of the duties.
b)	Teachers shall be informed of the proposed non-teaching duties within the school.
c)	Teachers shall be given an opportunity to request specific duty assignments.
d)	Exempting extenuating circumstances, the master duty schedule shall be distributed to all teachers by the last teacher workday in the preplanning week.
SECTION O	- Facilities
1.	Where facilities permit, the Board shall provide, at no cost to the teacher, paved, off-street parking facilities for all teachers. Parking facilities for teachers shall be planned in conjunction with new school construction.
2.	The Board will make available in each school at least one (1) room of appropriate size, adequately furnished and vented, which shall be reserved as an employee lounge.
3.	At least one (1) telephone shall be made available in each school for teacher use. The location of this telephone and those designated for teacher use in new schools shall provide as much privacy as possible. The Board shall not be required to install new telephones or move existing ones in order to comply with this language.
4.	The Board shall make adequate restrooms available exclusively for employee use.
5.	The Board agrees to provide reserved dining areas in each school for the use of teachers. Teachers shall be permitted to take food from the school cafeteria during lunchtime to areas designated by the principal.
6.	Teachers shall have operable typing and duplicating facilities to aid them in the preparation of instructional materials. When possible, said equipment shall be located in a central workroom and/or workspace.
7.	The Board shall make available at each school site conference area(s) which shall be used primarily for teacher conferences and educational evaluations.
8.	The Board shall provide for teachers a lockable space in a desk or cabinet.
9.	Teachers shall not be required to work in a school when there are no operable restroom facilities.
SECTION P	- Materials
1.	It is recognized that it is the responsibility of the Board to provide adequate teaching materials, supplies, textbooks, and operable audio-visual equipment and facilities. However, the Board will provide for teacher input into the purchase of any new textbook through either surveys, meetings, or committees.
2.	No teacher shall be required to provide materials listed in paragraph 1 above.
3.	The Board shall provide when available from the publisher a copy of the teacher's edition for his/her individual use of all texts used in each course he/she is teaching.
SECTION Q	- Teacher Files
1.	No material related to a teacher's conduct, service, character, or personality shall be placed in the files unless the teacher has had an opportunity to read the material. The teacher shall acknowledge that he/she has read such material by affixing his/her signature on the actual copy to be filed, with the understanding that such signature merely signifies that he/she had read the material to be filed and does not necessarily indicate agreement with the content.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 15
2.	The teacher shall have the right to provide a written answer to any material in the teacher's file, and said answer shall be attached to the file copy and placed in the official file. Official files shall be maintained only at the District Office.
3.	Communications of a nonprofessional nature (i.e. letters from parents) shall not be placed in a teacher's file nor shall any anonymous information be placed in said file.
4.	A teacher may request placement in his/her file of any such material pertinent to his/her professional career, performance, or qualifications. If the material that the teacher wishes to place in his/her file is not prohibited by this Agreement, the material shall be placed in his/her official file.
5.	Official grievances filed by any teacher under the grievance procedure outlined in this Agreement shall not be placed in the personnel file of any teacher nor shall they be used in any recommendation for job placement.
6.	The teacher shall have the right to see and to receive copies of any material in his/her personnel file upon identifying himself/herself in person or upon written request. Cost of duplication, not to exceed fifteen (15) cents per sheet, shall be paid by the teacher. Review of the file shall be in the presence of the Custodian of Records, or the appropriate designee.
7.	Upon written authorization by the teacher, the Union shall have the right to see the teacher's personnel file.
8.	All documents maintained concerning a teacher to be used for official purposes shall be kept in the teacher's official file.
9.	Evaluations or changes in evaluations shall not be inserted into a teacher's file for any prior school year after September 1 following that school year.
SECTION R	- Classroom Interruptions
There shall be no unnecessary classroom interruptions including but not limited to those caused by the intercommunications system.
SECTION S	- Teaching Assignments and Duties
1.	As soon as possible but no later than thirty (30) calendar days before the first day of classes, a teacher shall be informed in writing of any change in his/her assignment for the next school year. If no notification is given, the teacher shall be given the same grade level or subject area as was assigned during the previous year except where the principal is unable to fill a vacancy or where a resignation or other emergency necessitates a change of teacher assignment, in which case the teacher shall be notified of any resulting change in assignment as soon as possible. However, teachers in an alternative school for disruptive students may be subject to changes in assignment of students during the school year. At the end of their first year, teachers who volunteered to teach at an alternative school shall have the right to return to their previous instructional position.
2.	a) Medications and Routine Non-Invasive Medical Procedures
Teachers (other than the school nurse or those authorized by the principal) shall not administer medication or perform routine non-invasive medical procedures as part of their daily work responsibilities while located at the school site. Should a teacher take a student away from the school site, the teacher, upon mutual agreement with the principal will administer the approved medication or perform routine non-invasive medical procedures if the principal judges it to be safe for the student. Teachers (other than school nurses) who volunteer to give medication or perform routine non-invasive medical procedures must be trained by a registered nurse, a licensed practical nurse, a licensed physician or a certified physician assistant. Those teachers who administer medication must sign the "Medication Administration at School Training Manual for School Personnel”. Such training shall be provided by the Board. A routine non-invasive medical procedure is defined as that procedure which a health assistant would perform if the student were at the school site.
b)	Invasive Medical Procedures
Teachers (other than school nurses) shall not perform invasive medical services that require special medical knowledge, nursing judgment, and nursing assessment. The procedures include, but are not limited to:
1)	sterile catheterization,
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 16
2)	nasogastric tube feeding, and
3)	cleaning and maintaining a tracheostomy and deep suctioning of a tracheostomy.
c)	Invasive Medical Health-Related Services
Teachers (other than school nurses) shall not be required to perform invasive health related services. However, should a teacher volunteer to perform such services, the district must provide the teacher with childspecific training by a registered nurse, a licensed practical nurse, a licensed physician or a certified physician assistant. All procedures shall be monitored periodically by the school nurse. Those procedures include, but are not limited to:
1)	cleaning intermittent catheterization,
2)	gastrostomy tube feeding,
3)	monitoring blood glucose, and
4)	administering emergency injectable medication.
For all invasive medical services not listed in (b) or (c) above, a registered nurse, a licensed practical nurse, a licensed physician, or a certified physician assistant shall determine if the service could be safely administered by a teacher and approval must be granted by the appropriate district supervisor.
3.	Exceptional Student Education (ESE)
a)	When an ESE/basic education-team model is planned, the principal will, if possible, give the staff an opportunity for input. Such input may include a teacher's desire to participate.
b)	The regular classroom teacher shall be notified as soon as possible of the placement of an ESE staffed student in his/her classroom, unless it is determined by the school staffing committee that such notification would not enhance the student’s education.
c)	Should an Exceptional Student be placed in a classroom other than one designated as an exceptional child classroom, materials, technology, equipment and/or other teaching aids purchased with ESE funds for such student, shall be shared and/or utilized (if practical and readily accessible) for the instruction of that student in the classroom. Such sharing and utilization should be mutually coordinated between the teachers and acceptable to the principal.
4.	Upon mutual agreement between the principal and teacher, compensatory time shall be granted to those teachers who serve on a committee or team which has obtained the approval of the principal to meet beyond the teacher workday. Terms and conditions relating to the implementation of such compensatory time shall be mutually agreed upon by the principal and teacher prior to the committee or team meeting after hours.
5.	Any assignment(s) beyond the teacher workday, including but not limited to evening school and extracurricular assignments, shall not be obligatory. Any teacher choosing not to accept such assignments shall not be penalized or discriminated against in any way. However, teachers at an alternative school for disruptive students may be required to attend emergency staff meetings, parent conferences, and scheduled open houses beyond the teacher workday.
6.	Department heads, grade chairpersons, team coordinators, learning community leaders, team leaders shall be selected by the principal with serious consideration given to recommendations from all teachers in those departments, teams and/or grades. Such department heads, grade chairpersons, team coordinators, learning community leaders, team leaders shall receive additional pay for said assignments according to Addendum B of this Agreement. No teacher shall be required to perform the duties of a supplemented position without compensation. Any teacher choosing not to accept such assignments shall not be penalized or discriminated against in any way. The school's organizational pattern for the upcoming year shall be presented to the faculty by June 1.
7.	All teachers assigned to teach at more than one school shall have one school designated as a home-base school. Such teachers shall receive their paychecks at the home-base school.
8.	All teachers assigned to teach at more than one school on the same day shall be reimbursed for all mileage between the home-base school and other assigned schools at the rate established in Article X, Section A-4, of this Agreement. Travel time, as assigned, between schools shall not be construed as lunch or planning time.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 17
9.	No teacher shall be required to attend meetings regarding commercial and/or political solicitation. Attendance at any such presentations shall be voluntary and shall be separate from faculty meetings.
10.	A teacher who teaches in schools held on double session or extended-day schedule shall receive full pay for the session in which said teacher is assigned. Further, no teacher in such a school shall be required to teach any class to which he/she is not regularly assigned.
11.	Following appointment by the Board, the teacher will be provided with the following:
a.	Salary schedule, step placement, and pay rate.
b.	Certification requirements, if requested.
c.	Duty hours and teaching assignment.
d.	Opportunity to inspect classroom/work area.
12.	Planning time for teachers shall be defined as that time in which teachers may be assigned to do one or more of the following:
a.	Plan for classroom activities.
b.	Confer with parents.
c.	Meet with grade-level or subject area team members on matters related to curriculum and student progress.
d.	Attend and participate in staffings.
e.	Complete Southern Association accreditation activities.
f.	Attend administrative meetings related to their performance and/or student concerns.
13.	Middle and high school teachers shall be given at least one class period of at least fifty (50) minutes for planning each day students are in attendance and the regular class schedule is in effect. However, a teacher in an alternative school for disruptive students shall receive his/her fifty (50) minute planning period during the teacher workday.
14.	Elementary school teachers shall be given no less than 250 minutes of planning time each full week of student attendance and the regular class schedule is in effect. A total of 120 minutes of this time shall be assigned by the principal in four (4) 30-minute blocks of time on four (4) different student days. The remaining 130 minutes may be assigned as schedules permit during the week.
15.	Elementary, middle, and high school teachers will receive at least one hundred (100) minutes of planning time each week students are in attendance and the regular class schedule is in effect to plan for their specific classroom activities. At the elementary school level, the one hundred (100) minutes shall be implemented before or after the student day. When possible, two (2) fifty minute periods will be scheduled. This time may be altered as a result of the following:
a)	parent conferences;
b)	required meetings to implement changes due to state or federal mandate;
c)	voluntary participation in professional activities;
d)	personal activities; or,
e)	emergencies.
Elementary teachers will be informed when planning time is scheduled prior to the week it occurs.
16.	In cases where special teachers (art, music, physical education) are used, the regular teacher will not be required to remain in the classroom at the same time the special teacher is present. This time will be used as a preparation/planning time by the regular teacher.
17.	Planning time for media specialists and other support staff shall be equal in length to that of classroom teachers at their school provided that access to their services is not denied.
18.	Required staff development or lengthy faculty meetings shall be kept to a minimum on teacher planning days.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 18
19.	During the five (5) teacher planning days prior to students returning for a new school year, teachers shall be provided at least sixteen (16) hours to plan for personal classroom activities. Principals will schedule this time in at least two (2) hour blocks. However, sixteen (16) hours may be reduced as a result of the following: a) an emergency, which may include required meetings to implement state or federal mandates;
b)	voluntary participation in professional activities; or
c)	personal activities
20.	Principals will give priority to scheduling time during the planning day at the end of each quarter for teachers to prepare student report cards and plan for classroom activities. Staff development on these days will be voluntary.
a)	Grades will be due no earlier than the end of the third workday following the close of the grading periods one, two and three.
b)	Elementary schools will vote whether or not to send report cards home with students on the student's last day of school.
c)	Teachers who instruct seniors will be notified of the end of the year grade reporting procedures for seniors no later than the beginning of the fourth quarter.
d)	Final grades for quarter four (4) will be due no earlier than the start of the second workday following the close of the grading period for grades six (6) through eleven (11).
21.	Subject to available funds, principals will be encouraged to provide at least one-half (1/2) day of released time or the equivalent in compensatory time or an after hour stipend per semester for teachers who are responsible for planning instructional units. The principal must pre-approve the activity and the request for compensation. The manner for which time will be made available to the teacher will be mutually agreed to by the principal and teacher(s) involved.
22.	When possible, teachers will be provided a minimum of three (3) days notice to submit student assessment reports.
23.	Teacher participation on teams and departments is a necessary and important function, and committee participation gives teachers opportunities to provide input and participate in school-based decisions relative to school activities. Committee participation will be kept to a minimum to allow as much planning time as possible so that adequate lesson preparation is achieved.
SECTION T	- Parent-Teacher Conferences
1.	Except in the event of unusual circumstances, parent-teacher conferences shall be arranged by the principal or his/her designee in accordance with the following guidelines:
a)	Consultation with the teacher(s) involved and the establishment of time and date of said conference with all parties involved. Normally, such consultation will take place at least two (2) days prior to the conference.
b)	Notification of the purpose of the conference if not instigated by the notified teacher(s).
c)	Notification to the teacher(s) of the confirmed conference date.
2.	Released time shall be granted to teachers when needed for parent conferences provided the conference is arranged by the school principal or his/her designee in accordance with the provisions of this section. At an alternative school for disruptive students, if it becomes necessary to schedule a parent conference after the regular workday of the teacher, the principal and teacher will meet and mutually agree upon the date and time of the conference.
SECTION U	- Student Discipline
1.	A Discipline Committee shall exist at each school site. The committee will be the vehicle for all staff to offer constructive recommendations to enhance school-wide behavior. Teachers will be encouraged to participate as members of the committee. The membership of the committee should be representative of the schoolwide community. At a faculty meeting, the principal shall ask for teacher volunteers for the committee. The chairperson of the committee shall be elected by the members of the committee. A survey of the faculty will be conducted by the Discipline Committee of each school during the school year for the purpose of identifying issues and actions that will enhance school-wide behavior. Furthermore, the committee shall
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 19
develop a school-wide plan to enhance student behavior, which shall be in compliance with the Code of Student Conduct.
The plan shall be presented to the principal for approval and to the faculty for a vote. Prior to the vote, a teacher, upon his/her request, will be provided a copy of the plan. The committee shall meet periodically during the school year to review the plan and to consider adjustments for improving the plan. The committee is encouraged to facilitate the sharing among faculty members of effective interventions/preventions and to develop a program to manage students more effectively.
2.	While on duty, a teacher has a general responsibility for student control and a major responsibility for controlling those students under his/her direct supervision. The Board recognizes its responsibility to give full support and assistance to teachers in maintaining the appropriate discipline necessary to insure that effective teaching and learning takes place in an orderly and disciplined classroom without the distraction caused by disobedient, disrespectful, violent, abusive, uncontrollable, and disruptive students. Teachers and administrators need to work together mutually supporting each other in a manner to maintain proper student behavior and to promote a safe educational environment.
3.	Teachers have the responsibility and authority to establish and maintain classroom order within the frameworks of Board and school policies. Should it become necessary for a teacher to use reasonable force to maintain classroom/school order, the teacher shall follow the guidelines as provided in the Code of Student Conduct.
4.	If, in the opinion of the teacher, and within the guidelines of the school's plan and the Code of Student Conduct, a student is disrupting regular classroom activities, the teacher may report the action to the principal. The teacher may also submit a recommended course of action consistent with the Code of Student Conduct for the principal's consideration. The teacher’s recommendation shall be in writing and be within the guidelines of the school’s plan and the Code of Student Conduct. The principal shall employ the teacher’s recommended consequence or a more serious disciplinary action; or the principal may determine that a lesser disciplinary action is appropriate. If the principal determines that a lesser disciplinary action is appropriate, the principal should consult with the teacher prior to taking disciplinary action.
Any teacher shall have the right to send a student to the office whenever the student is involved in a serious disturbance in the classroom. The teacher will notify the office immediately when this action is taken. Such notification shall include a personal verbal and/or written explanation of the disturbance. Students removed from class for a Level 3 offense as described by the Code of Student Conduct shall not be returned for the remainder of that class period or a minimum of thirty (30) minutes for schools which do not have set time periods for classes. Should this not be possible, the principal shall consult with the teacher prior to returning the student to class.
5.	Student disciplinary infractions shall be reported on the appropriate referral form approved for the school. The school administration shall make such forms readily available. At the discretion of the teacher, he/she may retain a copy of the form. Upon referral by the teacher, serious disturbance behavioral problems are the principal's responsibility for appropriate disciplinary action. Final action shall be taken within five (5) days unless there are extenuating circumstances. A copy of the discipline form with principal's action noted shall be returned to the teacher as soon as possible, but not more than five (5) days from the date of the referral.
6.	A teacher may request that a disobedient, disrespectful, violent, abusive, uncontrollable, or disruptive student be removed from his/her class for the remainder of the school year under any of the following circumstances: a) who has been documented by the teacher to repeatedly interfere with the teacher's ability to communicate effectively with the students in the class or with the ability of the student's classmates to learn;
b)	whose behavior the teacher determines is so disobedient, disrespectful, violent, abusive, uncontrollable, or disruptive that it seriously interferes with the teacher's ability to communicate effectively with the students in the class or with the ability of the student's classmates to learn; or
c)	who has threatened personal harm or property damage against the teacher or the teacher's family.
Upon such request the principal may not return the student to that teacher's class without the teacher's consent unless the committee established herein determines that such placement is the best or only alternative. The teacher and the Placement Review Committee must render decisions within five (5) days of the removal of the student from the classroom. Placement options, however, are limited by program
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 20
eligibility requirements, School Board policies, and state and federal laws. If the Placement Review Committee’s decision is contrary to the decision of the teacher to withhold consent to the return of the removed student to the teacher’s class, the teacher may appeal the committee’s decision to the Superintendent. The request to appeal to the Superintendent must be in writing and filed within three (3) work days of notification to the teacher of the committee’s decision.
7.	At the beginning of the school year, each principal shall notify each teacher in the school about the availability, the procedures, and the criteria for the Placement Review Committee. At the beginning of the school year, each school shall establish a Placement Review Committee to determine placement of a student when a teacher withholds consent to the return of a student to the teacher's class. Before selecting members to the committee, the principal and faculty will determine the size of the committee. The ratio of the number of members selected by the teachers and the number selected by the principal shall be approximately 2:1, if the number of volunteers and/or nominees exceeds the approximate two-thirds (2/3) number designated to be selected by teachers, an election will be held to determine which teachers fill the positions. The chairperson of the Placement Review Committee shall be elected by the members of the committee. The chairperson shall serve as a member of the school's discipline committee. A convened Placement Review Committee must include at least two (2) teachers, one (1) selected by the faculty and one (1) selected by the teacher who has removed the student, and one (1) member of the school’s staff who is selected by the principal. The teacher selected by the teacher who has removed the student may or may not be a current member of the school’s committee.
8.	The Board shall make available training and assistance to teachers in classroom management, violence prevention, conflict resolution, verbal aggression diffusion, and related areas. The dates and topics of such training shall be provided to the Union and posted at each school on the bulletin board and/or faculty calendar.
9.	Should Florida Statute 1003.32(2) modify any requirements set forth in 6, 7, and/or 8 above, then such contract language shall be modified according to the statutes.
10.	Students who are referred to the administration by a teacher because of possible learning disabilities or emotional, behavioral, or other related problems shall be dealt with as quickly as possible.
11.	Within the first two (2) weeks of school each year, the school administration will provide each teacher with a copy and explanation of the Code of Student Conduct. The administration will provide access to Florida Statutes 1006.09, 1003.32, and 1006.11. Teachers will have all rights and responsibilities regarding student discipline as specified in the Code of Student Conduct and including that which is required under Florida Statutes. The Board, Superintendent, and principal shall fully support teachers in their efforts to follow and enforce the Student Code of Conduct.
12.	The Board recognizes that teacher safety is a priority. Reasonable efforts shall be taken by the Board to ensure this safety. Any case of battery upon or an assault against a teacher in the performance of his/her duties shall be reported promptly to the principal or immediate supervisor. In such case, the legal assistance specified in Article IX, Section C(1), shall be provided if necessary, and the teacher maintains the right to report such action to legal authorities. Violence against school personnel by students will be enforced as specified in the Code of Student Conduct. Teachers who are involved in such cases shall not lose regular salary for any time lost from their duties when their presence is required before a judicial body. In case of disability, the Board agrees to continue the teacher's contractual salary until said employee is eligible for Workers' Compensation benefits. The Board agrees to follow the provisions of Florida Statute 1012.63 in regard to illness-in-line-of-duty leave.
13.	The Union president or his/her designee will serve as a member of the District Student Code of Conduct Committee and will be responsible for recommending to the Chairperson the instructional bargaining unit members to serve on the committee.
14.	The Union president or his/her designee will serve as a member of the Superintendent's Task Force on Discipline.
SECTION V	- Miscellaneous
1.	No teacher shall be required to transport student(s) or equipment in his/her vehicle. In the event a teacher agrees to transport students or equipment, the Board shall maintain excess insurance coverage for such activities.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 21
2.	No teacher shall be required to present evidence of health, including but not limited to health certificates and tuberculosis skin test results, as a condition of continued employment except as provided in Florida Statutes, State Board of Education Rules, and applicable Department of Education rules and regulations.
3.	The Board agrees that every attempt will be made to employ qualified substitutes when regular and special teachers (including art, music, and physical education) are absent. Substitutes need not be employed when guidance counselors are absent. Further, the Board and Superintendent reserve the right to arrange for substitutes.
4.	Acceptance of student/intern assignment shall be strictly voluntary.
5.	Teachers may attend free of charge all athletic events within the district.
6.	All teachers shall be given an equal opportunity to apply for part-time positions in the homebound program. Compensation shall be as provided in Addendum A of this Agreement.
7.	Observations of a teacher's class by persons other than school administrative/supervisory personnel shall be allowed only after consent has been granted by the building principal and notice has been given to the teacher involved.
SECTION W	- Selection of Teacher of the Year
1.	The Union shall conduct the Teacher of the Year selection process.
2.	Upon request, the Board shall provide technical assistance related to the selection process to the Union.
3.	The Board shall provide the Union with the deadline for submission of the State Teacher of the Year nomination and criteria for selection as soon as it is notified by the Department of Education.
4.	In September, a Teacher of the Year Committee composed of teachers only shall be selected at each school by vote at a meeting of the entire faculty.
5.	The school's Teacher of the Year Committee shall oversee the nomination and selection process for the school's Teacher of the Year.
6.	The school's Teacher of the Year Committee shall announce timelines for nomination and voting procedures at least two (2) weeks prior to the beginning of the nomination procedure for approval by the entire faculty.
7.	No action shall be taken against a teacher for refusing to participate in Teacher of the Year activities.
8.	Nominations for Teacher of the Year shall come from teachers only.
9.	Voting for school Teacher of the Year shall be by secret ballot. Only teachers assigned to the school may vote for that school's Teacher of the Year.
10.	The committee to select the district's Teacher of the Year shall be composed of five (5) teacher representatives. These representatives must not have a conflict of interest and shall be chosen by the Union Executive Board.
11.	The Union shall furnish to the Board by October 1 of each year a list of Teacher of the Year Committee members for each school. In addition, at the conclusion of the selection process for District Teacher of the Year, the Union shall furnish to the Board a list of members of the District Teacher of the Year Selection Committee.
12.	Teachers who are serving as chairpersons of the school Teacher of the Year Committee shall be granted one-half (1/2) day temporary duty leave for orientation purposes. Teachers who serve on the district Teacher of the Year Selection Committee shall be granted up to five (5) days additional temporary duty leave. Substitutes shall be provided as follows: One-half (1/2) day for orientation purposes and up to five (5) days for each teacher serving on the district Teacher of the Year Selection Committee. Reimbursement for travel shall be authorized.
SECTION X	- School Improvement
1.	School Advisory Councils
The composition of and procedures for teacher membership on School Advisory Councils (SACs) shall be in accordance with the guidelines provided in the district manual, "Pasco County District School Advisory Councils." For the purpose of teachers serving on SACs the term "teacher" shall refer to all employees who occupy positions which are defined as members of the instructional bargaining unit. The date, time, and
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 22
location of a school's SAC's meeting shall be published in advance. If a SAC meeting is held during the student day, release time shall be granted to one (1) USEP-designated representative at the school site to attend the SAC meeting. USEP and the Board may mutually agree to share the cost of the substitute.
2.	Upon the Union president's request, the Superintendent and/or his/her designee shall meet with the Union president on mutually agreeable date(s) and time(s) for the purpose of facilitating the communication of information regarding school accountability and improvement.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 23
SECTION Y - Job Sharing
Job sharing is the employment of two (2) teachers performing the duties and responsibilities of one (1) classroom teaching position. Job sharing is not designed to be permanent part-time employment or to provide opportunity for teachers to work for another employer.
Two (2) teachers who wish to share one (1) position must first request and obtain the approval of their principal. Upon approval of the principal, the request for job sharing must be sent to the Director of Employee Relations and the president of USEP by April 1st for approval. Upon mutual agreement, exceptions to the April 1st deadline may be considered if extenuating circumstances warrant. If approved, two (2) teachers may participate in the job-sharing program for the next school year. Upon approval of the principal, the two (2) teachers may request to extend job sharing for additional years to a maximum of five (5) years. Each year, requests for extensions must be sent to the Director of Employee Relations and the president of USEP by April 1st for approval. Job sharing will be approved in one-year periods.
Reasons for a teacher requesting to job share may include the following:
a)	Child care.
b)	Medical condition of the teacher or immediate family member. Immediate family shall mean husband, wife, child, father, mother, brother, sister, or other close relative or member of his/her household.
c)	Advanced study leading toward a higher degree.
d)	College work leading toward certification in a critical shortage area.
e)	Special circumstances and/or conditions as approved by the Director of Employee Relations and the president of USEP.
Teachers approved for job sharing must agree to the following conditions of employment:
a)	Each teacher must work four (4) hours per day. The schedule of duties and assignments shall be made by the principal. Any changes must be approved by the principal.
b)	Each teacher shall be entitled to four (4) one-half (1/2) days of sick leave as of the first day of the school year and thereafter earn one-half (1/2) day of sick leave for each month of employment for a total of five (5) days during the 196-day contract. Each teacher shall be allowed up to six (6) one-half (1/2) days of personal leave each year.
c)	Each teacher shall receive the appropriate contributions for the Florida Retirement System and social security.
d)	Each teacher's salary will be one-half (1/2) of his/her salary based upon degree and experience.
e)	For the purposes of seniority and credit on the salary schedule, assignments for each teacher will constitute more than one-half (1/2) of the school year thus entitling each teacher to one (1) year of service.
f)	One (1) teacher will receive full benefits, health and flexible benefits, as provided by the district. The other teacher will sign a waiver of such benefits.
g)	Should one (1) of the two (2) teachers job sharing have to vacate his/her position during the year due to unavoidable circumstances, the remaining teacher will assume that position. However, in cases where a replacement for the vacating job sharing teacher can be found who is approved by the principal, the Director of Employee Relations and the president of USEP, the teaching position may continue as a job sharing position.
h)	Upon return from an approved job sharing position of no more than one (1) year, a teacher shall be placed in the same instructional position held upon applying for said job sharing position if such position exists. Any teacher who is hired for the purpose of replacing a teacher who is job sharing will be notified upon employment that he/she will not be reappointed at the expiration of his/her contract.
i)	Other working conditions and benefits as stipulated in the Instructional Master Contract may not be applicable and subject to waiver based upon the needs of the students and school. Such waivers shall be agreed to by the Director of Employee Relations and the President of USEP.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Page 24
SECTION Z - Charter Schools
1.	As soon as the Board is aware that an existing school is considering converting to a charter school, or the Board is considering the construction of a new facility for the purpose of establishing a charter school or an application is made to the Board to establish a charter school, the Union will be informed. The Board shall continue to recognize the Union's collective bargaining rights as provided by Florida Statute.
2.	The Union and Board agree that upon request, the Board shall grant a teacher who possesses a continuing, professional service, or annual contract a leave of absence without pay to teach in a Charter School as defined in Florida Statute 1002.33(12). This leave shall be for a period of one (1) year and shall be renewed each year thereafter upon notification by the teacher to the Supervisor of Charter Schools by April 1 of the preceding school year. This leave provision will apply only if Florida Statute requires such. Should the statute be revised and omit the leave requirement, this leave provision will become null and void.
SECTION AA - Tobacco Free Policy
1.	Smoking and the use of all tobacco products are prohibited by law inside all School Board facilities and in all "common areas" as defined in the Florida Clean Indoor Air Act to be "any hallway, corridor, lobby, aisle, water fountain area, rest-room, stairwell, entryway, or conference room..."
2.	The current practice whereby the worksite administrator designates employee outdoor smoking area(s) that are shielded from student view and are located away from regularly used student activity areas on existing School Board grounds shall continue, except under the following conditions:
a)	Effective July 1, 1996, all future newly acquired worksites, including all School Board real and personal property located on these sites, shall be designated as smoke and tobacco free. No employee at these sites shall use any tobacco product in the building(s) or on any outside grounds. This includes the use of such tobacco products in motor vehicles with the exception of those vehicles entering or exiting the worksite(s).
b)	A committee shall exist consisting of six (6) members, three (3) representing the Board and (3) representing the Union, for the purpose of resolving problems that may arise due to the implementation of the Tobacco Free Policy.
c)	All employees assigned to any School Board facility which is not smoke and tobacco free shall be surveyed once each year if requested by any employee at the facility. Such request shall be made in writing by September 30 to the Director of Employee Relations, with a copy provided to the President of the Union. The intent of the survey is that, as all employees at any such facility declare that they are nontobacco users or are willing to refrain from the use of tobacco products at the facility, the facility shall be declared tobacco free.
3.	The district shall not involuntarily transfer any teacher who is a tobacco user to a position at a smoke and tobacco free site without his/her consent.
END OF ARTICLE VII
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
SECTION A	- Rules Governing
1.	Any teacher on approved leave shall retain seniority rights. No approved leave shall be considered a break in service for any reason, but seniority shall not be accrued during that time except in the case of sabbatical leave or military leave.
2.	Any teacher(s) on approved leave with pay shall be eligible for all benefits including but not limited to retirement and retention of contract status.
3.	During any approved leave of absence, the teacher shall have the right to participate in all group fringe benefit plans provided by the Board. During the period of FMLA leave, the Board will pay the portion of the insurance premium which it normally paid prior to the leave, such as major medical, surgical, dental, vision, life, and flexible benefits. In the event said leave is unpaid, the teacher shall be permitted to make his/her own and the Board's regular contributions to all benefits requiring such contributions.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Page 25
4.	Any teacher on approved, extended leave shall be placed on the appropriate salary step upon return; however, those teachers returning from sabbatical leave or military leave shall be advanced to the appropriate position on the salary schedule as if they had been in actual service in the district.
5.	A teacher may not be eligible for more than two (2) extended unpaid leaves within a five (5) year period with the exception of military leave, civic participation leave, FMLA leave and/or that provided for in Article III, Section A (10).
6.	With the exception of FMLA leave, extended unpaid leaves shall not be granted for two or more consecutive years except as follows: the Board may grant a consecutive leave if the second leave is for reasons of illness which is supported by a statement from a licensed medical physician which states that the illness will prevent the teacher from performing his/her regular assigned duties or for child rearing as stipulated in Article VIII, Section C (1) of this Agreement. In the event that a consecutive leave is granted, the teacher will return to a similar position but will not be insured of returning to the same position held upon applying for said leave.
a)	Upon return from any approved leave of no longer than one (1) year, a teacher on continuing contract, professional service contract, or annual contract shall be placed in the same instructional position held upon applying for said leave if such position exists. Any teacher who is hired for the purpose of replacing a teacher on leave will be notified upon employment that he/she will not be reappointed at the expiration of his/her contract.
b)	When a regular employed teacher on annual contract, professional service contract or continuing contract replaces a teacher on leave, the provisions of Article VII, Section F-2 shall apply. However, in the event the teacher on leave resigns his or her position or is approved for an extension of leave prior to the end of the school year, the teacher on annual contract, professional service contract or continuing contract occupying the position shall be offered to continue in the position.
7.	A teacher who is absent without leave on a temporary basis shall not be subject to loss of pay and/or subject to reprimand or dismissal if said absence is beyond the individual's control and the teacher is unable to notify the immediate supervisor and said teacher is eligible for paid leave during his/her absence. Upon request by the immediate supervisor, reasonable documentation, if the situation permits, and/or explanation will be furnished by the teacher at the earliest possible time.
8.	When a teacher receives an unpaid leave of absence after the beginning of the second semester that extends to the end of the school year, the number of days remaining to be paid to the teacher shall be divided by the number of days in the teacher regular payroll check to determine the number of pay periods for which the school district will pay benefits.
SECTION B	- Paid Leaves
1.	Sick Leave
a)	Each teacher employed on a full-time basis shall be credited with four (4) days of sick leave on the first employment day of each contract year and one (1) day of sick leave for each month thereafter, to be credited at the end of the month and which shall not be used prior to the time it is credited to the teacher.
b)	The number of sick leave days earned during any one (1) year shall be equal to one (1) day for each contracted month of employment completed. Teachers contracted for a period of 30-89 days shall receive one (1) day of sick leave for each contracted month of employment completed. Such leave shall be credited as earned.
c)	Any teacher who has accrued sick leave outside the district but in the State of Florida shall be credited on a day-for-day basis with all accrued leave. Said leave shall be credited in the same manner as sick leave earned within the district.
d)	Sick leave shall be cumulative from year to year. There shall be no limit placed upon number of days a teacher may accrue.
e)	Sick leave accumulated by a teacher prior to an approved leave of absence shall be credited to the teacher upon return.
f)	On each pay date, each teacher shall receive on his/her payroll voucher an accumulated balance of his/her total number of sick leave hours.
g)	Sick leave may be used either for personal illness or emergencies as defined below:
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Page 26
1)	Personal illness of the teacher.
2)	Death or illness in the immediate family. Immediate family shall mean husband, wife, child, father, mother, brother, sister, or other close relative or member of his/her household.
3)	Extended illnesses and/or disability related to pregnancy if leave request is accompanied by a physician's statement of disability.
h.	Sick leave will normally be deducted in one-half (1/2) day units. When absence occurs during planning/conference days, the sick leave may be deducted in one (1) hour units. On other days when a teacher arranges for absence under subsection (g) above and instructional time is not affected, leave for such absence may be for a one (1) hour unit. If the sick leave is deducted in a one-half (1/2) day unit, the teacher is entitled to three and three quarter (3-3/4) hours of leave provided sufficient time remains in the workday.
i.	Transfer of Sick Leave to Family Member
1)	Effective July 1, 2001, an employee may transfer a minimum of 1/2 day of his/her accrued sick leave to his/her spouse, child, parent, or sibling who is also employed by the district, providing the recipient:
a.	is absent for a qualifying reason as stated above in item g); and
b.	has used all of his/her accumulated sick leave.
2)	Eligibility begins with the first day the teacher (recipient) is absent and has no accrued paid days. Transferred days requested will be applied consecutively beginning on the first day of eligibility. The request must be filed with the Department of Human Resources no later than the last day of the next pay period immediately following the pay period in which the first day of eligibility occurred.
3)	The transferred days cannot:
a.	be used intermittently during the extended absence,
b.	be used for personal leave with pay,
c.	be used for any “terminal value”, or
d.	establish or continue eligibility for the Sick Leave Bank.
4)	Transferred days will be returned to the donor if unused by the recipient.
5)	Sick leave transferred under this provision may apply toward the number of required paid or unpaid days needed to meet the requirements for the withdrawal of days from the Sick Leave Bank.
6)	Any days transferred under this provision will be counted toward the teacher’s annual 12-week entitlement under provisions of Article VIII, Section C-7,a) Family and Medical Leave, if applicable.
7)	Days transferred under this provision will be paid at the rate of pay of the recipient.
2.	Illness-In-Line-of Duty Leave
a)	A teacher shall be entitled to illness-in-line-of-duty leave not to exceed ten (10) days during any school year because of personal injury received in the discharge of duty or because of illness from any contagious or infectious disease contracted in school work. ILD leave shall be granted only after investigation and approval.
b)	In the case of sickness or injury occurring under said circumstances, the Board may grant additional leave.
c)	No leave granted under this provision shall be charged to accrued sick leave.
d)	The Board and Union agree that a committee shall be authorized to investigate and approve reports of illness/injury-in-line-of-duty and make recommendations to improve safety conditions and the use of Workers' Compensation benefits. An administrator with voting power shall chair this committee. In addition, the Union and Board shall name an equal number of voting members.
3.	Personal Leave
Teachers shall be allowed up to six (6) days of personal leave at full compensation during each year of their employment. Such leave will not be cumulative and shall be deducted from accrued sick leave when used. Such leave shall not be used for recreational purposes. Teachers shall not be required to give reasons on leave forms.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Page 27
4.	Judicial Leave
a)	A teacher absent from work shall be paid his/her regular salary by the Board provided:
1)	he/she has been served a summons and required to report to jury duty;
2)	he/she has been issued a subpoena by an authorized agency and required to appear within the state of Florida; or
3)	he/she has been issued a subpoena by an authorized agency of the federal government and required to appear.
b)	Such time shall not be deducted from sick leave accumulation.
c)	The teacher shall not be required to sign over to the Board any money received for such service.
This section is not applicable when the teacher is a primary party to legal action unrelated to his/her employment.
5.	Professional Leave
a)	Professional leave not to exceed thirty (30) days per applicant for each occasion may be granted for the purpose of attending conferences, workshops, institutes, school visitations, and other meetings related to education.
b)	When possible, requests to the Board for such leave shall be at least five (5) days in advance so that proper arrangements for substitutes can be made.
c)	The Board may reimburse the teacher for expenses incurred, i.e., transportation, lodging, meals, and registration or other fees. However, if the teacher is asked by the Superintendent to attend as a representative of the district, expenses shall be reimbursed within limits prescribed by the Board.
d)	When professional leave is granted, the teacher shall not suffer loss of salary, and the days shall not be deducted from accumulated sick leave or annual personal leave.
6.	Sabbatical Leave
After seven (7) years of satisfactory service in the Pasco County Public School System, a sabbatical leave of absence may be granted for the purpose of completing a doctorate or for other purposes if mutually agreed to by the Union and the Superintendent. The following conditions will prevail:
a)	No more than one (1) teacher at a time shall be placed on sabbatical leave during any school year.
b)	To be eligible, a teacher must be enrolled in a program approved for certification purposes by the Florida Department of Education and have completed enough of the required work to be eligible to complete the degree during the sabbatical period. If the degree is not finished within two (2) years after the last day of the sabbatical leave, the teacher shall reimburse the Board within two (2) years for the full amount of the leave plus eight percent (8%) interest. This condition may be waived by the Superintendent due to extraordinary circumstances.
c)	Teachers on sabbatical leave will be paid 55 percent of the salary which would have been drawn during the time of the leave. Seniority shall be taken into consideration when granting sabbatical leave; however, a teacher making application for his/her first sabbatical leave shall be given preference over one who has previously been granted sabbatical leave. In the event that more than one applicant meets the criteria explained above, the Union and the Superintendent shall mutually select the teacher to receive the sabbatical.
d)	Sabbatical leave may be allowed if satisfactory arrangements can be made for smooth operation of the school system.
e)	Any teacher granted a sabbatical leave with remuneration shall file with the Superintendent a schedule of courses to be taken and shall complete all such courses and receive passing grades therein or shall reimburse the Board for the full amount of the remuneration paid to him/her for the period of the leave plus eight percent (8%) interest. Changes in said schedule of courses may be made upon mutual consent of the Superintendent and the teacher.
f)	Any teacher granted sabbatical leave with remuneration is required to serve at least three (3) years in the county after termination of the leave. In the event such teacher should accept other employment instead
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Page 28
of servicing Pasco for the full three (3) years as specified above, he/she would have to reimburse the Board as follows:
1)	Zero (0) years of return service - the full amount of the sabbatical.
2)	One (1) year of return service - two-thirds (2/3) of the amount of the sabbatical.
3)	Two (2) years of return service - one-third (1/3) of the amount of the sabbatical.
All monies owed would be due within two (2) years of the date of the termination. Eight percent (8%) interest would be charged on the unpaid balance on the yearly anniversary of the termination date.
g)	Application for the sabbatical leave shall be filed with the Director of Employee Relations by April 1.
7.	Sick Leave Bank
Beginning with the 1979-80 school year, a Sick Leave Bank shall be established for the purpose of providing sick leave with pay during periods of personal illness, or injury not otherwise compensated by the Board or Worker’s Compensation. The intent of the Bank is to provide income protection for participating members of the bargaining unit. Bargaining unit members shall become eligible to participate in the Sick Leave Bank after one (1) year of employment in the school district and accrual of at least one (1) day of unused sick leave.
a)	All participating members shall contribute one (1) day of sick leave in the first month of the employee’s eligibility. Each member of the bargaining unit will sign a statement either accepting or declining enrollment in the Sick Leave Bank. Applications for membership and/or use of the Bank may be obtained from the bargaining unit member's primary worksite.
b)	Participating members shall contribute one (1) additional day each time the Bank is depleted but not more than once per year. The Bank shall be considered depleted when there are fewer than 200 sick days.
1)	If a member elects to withdraw from membership, he/she shall be removed from membership and may reapply during the next official enrollment period. Upon reapplying, initial membership requirements must again be met.
2)	If a member does not have one Sick Leave day to contribute, his/her membership shall be suspended until he/she has earned one Sick Leave day to contribute.
c)	The Bank shall be directed by an administrative committee and chaired by the Assistant Superintendent for Administration or his/her designee. This committee shall:
1)	Process all applications and approve/disapprove withdrawal of days based upon illness, or injury, subject to the criteria established by this committee.
2)	Define “catastrophic” and may develop other definitions, guidelines and rules for the purpose of administering the Bank.
3)	Investigate any alleged abuse of the Sick Leave Bank, and upon a finding of wrongdoing, report such to the Superintendent. If such wrongdoing is substantiated, the employee shall reimburse the district all wages and benefits paid to the employee.
4)	Be governed by rules established by the committee.
The composition of this committee shall be as follows:
1)	The Assistant Superintendent for Administration or his/her designee.
2)	The Supervisor of Student Services responsible for school nurses.
3)	Four (4) instructional bargaining unit members participating in the Instructional Sick Leave Bank who are mutually selected by the Assistant Superintendent for Administration or his/her designee and the Union president.
4)	The president of the Union or his/her designee.
5)	The Director of Employee Relations or his/her designee.
d)	Participating members will be eligible to withdraw up to 100 days per twelve (12) month period from the Bank, in amounts approved by the committee. The twelve (12) month period will start on the first date
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Page 29
that a member receives a day from the Sick Leave Bank. The awarding of days is subject to the following conditions:
1)	The need must arise from the member’s own personal illness or injury. If the personal illness or injury is catastrophic, a member may receive up to 100 days. If the personal illness or injury is less than catastrophic, a member may receive up to 50 days. In no event may a member receive more than 100 days within a twelve (12) month period from the Bank.
2)	The member has exhausted all accumulated sick leave.
3)	The member has been absent in either a paid or nonpaid leave status for at least ten (10) consecutive days or for ten (10) non-consecutive days occurring within a ninety (90) day period that are related to the same illness or injury as substantiated by proper medical documentation. No member shall receive reimbursement from the Sick Leave Bank for any unpaid days that fall within the ten (10) day eligibility period.
4)	The member has submitted an application and the statement completed by a licensed physician and/or a licensed mental health professional describing the illness or injury to the Chairperson of the Sick Leave Bank Committee, who will process the request and report his/her findings to the Sick Leave Bank Committee.
5)	In the event a member has a preexisting condition on the date of enrollment, there shall be a ninety (90) day waiting period before eligibility based upon disability due to that particular illness.
6)	Any days granted from the Sick Leave Bank will be counted toward the teacher’s annual twelve-week entitlement under the provisions of Article VIII, Section C-7,a), Family and Medical Leave.
e)	The Union shall be provided with a monthly report consisting of:
1)	The number of participating members.
2)	The names of applicants requesting Sick Leave Bank days.
3)	The number of days expended and remaining in the Bank.
8.	National Board of Professional Teaching Standards Certification Leave
In an effort to advance the teaching profession and improve student learning, the United School Employees of Pasco and the District School Board of Pasco County agree to support and encourage Pasco teachers seeking high and rigorous standards through participation in the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS) certification program.
To assist teachers who have applied for NBPTS certification according to State and district guidelines fulfill the program requirements and activities, the district shall grant the following:
a)	Up to three (3) days of professional leave as specified in Article VIII, Section B-5, provided such leave is coordinated with the principal and forwarded to the Supervisor of Human Resources.
b)	Up to six (6) days of personal leave as specified in Article VIII, Section B-3, provided the teacher has not used all six (6) personal days already this year, has accrued a sufficient number of sick leave hours, and has coordinated such leave request with the principal.
SECTION C - Unpaid Leaves
1.	Child Rearing Leave
a)	A leave of absence without pay for a period of up to one (1) year shall be granted for child rearing. Said leave shall be granted in connection with childbirth, adoption, or death of the other parent.
b)	Requests for such leave shall be made in writing to the office of the Superintendent, when possible, at least thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of the leave.
2.	Military Leave
All teachers drafted for military service or called to active duty with reserve components shall be granted a leave of absence without pay except as provided in Section 115.07, Florida Statutes. A copy of the military orders shall be attached to the leave form. Effective July 1, 1987, the "annual period" referred to in Section 115.07, Florida Statutes, shall be from July 1 through June 30.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Page 30
3.	Advanced Study and Education Service Leave
Upon request, the Board may grant a teacher leave of absence without pay for advanced study or educational experience for a period not to exceed one (1) year when such study or experience is directly related to the teacher's subject field. Such leave may include requests for acquiring experience in and knowledge of a teacher's field of study as an employee in industrial or private employment if the employer certifies to the district that the experience is in the teacher's instructional field. Normally this leave will be granted only after two (2) or more continuous years of service in the district.
4.	Civic Participation Leave
a)	Upon request, a teacher shall be granted civic participation leave without pay.
b)	Such leave includes, but is not limited to, the following: election or appointment to a constitutional office in a federal, state, county, or municipal government or subdivision thereof.
c)	The teacher shall notify the Board in writing of his/her intention of accepting such office or assignment and shall keep the Board informed of his/her status at annual intervals thereafter. Such leave shall be renewed yearly, upon application, for a period equal to the term of office to which said teacher has been elected or appointed.
5.	Health Leave
Upon request, a teacher shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for up to one (1) year for reasons of poor health as certified by a licensed medical physician. With the exception of FMLA leave, such leave shall not be granted more than once in any five (5) year period; however, subsequent leave may be approved by the Superintendent or his/her designee upon the employee documenting extenuating circumstances.
6.	Extended Personal Leave
a)	Upon request, a teacher with two (2) or more continuous years of service in the district shall be granted a leave of absence for up to one (1) year without pay for other reasons than those stated in C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, or C-5, provided that the primary purpose shall not be to engage in gainful employment.
b)	The reason for such request shall be stated in the application for leave.
7.	Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
a. The Board will grant an eligible employee (as defined in Part c of this section) up to a total of twelve weeks of leave in a twelve-month period for one or more of the following reasons:
1)	the birth of a child of the employee and care following the child's birth,
2)	the adoption of a child by the employee including the events and process leading to the adoption, and care following the adoption,
3)	the placement and/or care of the child in the foster care of the employee,
4)	the care of a child, spouse or parent of the employee who has a serious health condition (as defined in Part A(5). For the purposes of this paragraph: (a) the term "spouse" means a husband or wife as defined or recognized under State law for purposes of marriage; (b) the term "parent" means a biological parent or an individual who stands or stood in loco parentis to an employee when the employee was a child -- this term does not include parents "in law"; (c) the terms "son" or "daughter" mean a biological, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, a legal ward, or a child of a person standing in loco parentis, who is either under age 18, or age 18 or older and incapable of self-care because of a mental or physical disability.
5)	the treatment of a serious health condition which prevents the employee from performing his/her job. A "serious health condition" means an illness, injury, impairment or physical or mental condition that involves:
a.	any period of incapacity or treatment in connection with or consequent to in-patient care (i.e., an overnight stay in a hospital, hospice or residential medical care facility);
b.	any period of incapacity requiring absence from work, school, or other regular daily activities, of more than three calendar days, that also involves continuing treatment by (or under the supervision of) a healthcare provider; or
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Page 31
c.	continuing treatment by (or under the supervision of) a healthcare provider for a chronic or longterm health condition that is incurable or so serious that, if not treated, would likely result in a period of incapacity of more than three calendar days; or for prenatal care.
Voluntary or cosmetic treatments which are not medically necessary are not "serious health conditions" unless inpatient hospital care is required.
b)	The twelve-month period for entitlement under this section will be measured from July 1 through June 30.
c)	In order to be eligible, the employee must have been employed by the Board for at least one year, and the employee must actually have received pay for 1,250 or more hours from the Board during the twelvemonth period immediately preceding the unpaid leave. Holidays, earned sick leave, and vacation time for which the employee has been paid but has not worked shall be included in the calculation above. Sick Leave Bank, Workers' Compensation, suspension with pay, and sabbatical leave time will not be counted.
d)	Leave, except for certain exceptions described in Part (e) for instructional employees, commences upon the absence of the employee from work and ends on the day and time the employee reports back to work.
e)	Instructional employees are subject to additional rules and procedures with regard to leave periods associated with Family and Medical Leave. For the purposes of Family and Medical Leave, "instructional employees" are defined as those employees who are included in the instructional bargaining unit and whose principal function is to teach and instruct students in a class, a small group, or an individual setting.
If an eligible instructional employee requests intermittent or reduced leave which is based upon planned medical treatment and this leave would be for more than 20% of the total number of working days over the period the leave would extend, the Board may require the employee to choose either to:
1)	take leave for periods of a particular duration, not greater than the duration of the planned treatment; or
2)	transfer temporarily to an available alternative position for which the employee is qualified, which has equivalent pay and benefits and which better accommodates recurring periods of leave than the employee's regular position.
Intermittent or reduced leave under this provision will begin no sooner than the first day where leave is granted and end no later than the last day where leave is granted and will include all dates granted between the beginning and ending dates.
If an instructional employee takes leave near the end of a semester, the Board may require the employee to stay out on leave until the end of the semester according to the following guidelines:
1)	Leave beginning more than five weeks before the end of the semester. The Board may require the instructional employee to continue taking leave until the end of the semester if:
a)	the leave will last at least three weeks, and
b)	the employee would return to work during the three week period before the end of the semester.
2)	Leave beginning less than five weeks before the end of the semester. If an employee begins leave for a purpose other than the employee's own serious health condition during the five week period before the end of the semester, the Board may require the instructional employee to continue taking leave until the end of the semester if:
a.	the leave will last more than two weeks, and
b.	the employee will return to work during the two-week period before the end of the semester.
3)	Leave beginning with less than three weeks before the end of the semester. If an employee begins leave for a purpose other than the employee's own serious health condition during the three week period before the end of the semester, and the leave will last more than five working days, the Board may require the employee to continue taking leave until the end of the semester.
All leave taken under Part (e) will count against the employee's twelve-week entitlement. If the instructional employee's twelve weeks of leave entitlement under the FMLA run out before the leave period is completed, the Board will continue health benefits, restore the employee to his/her previous position unless the employee's position has been affected by reduction in force and/or layoff, and provide other FMLA entitlement throughout the whole period of the leave.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Page 32
f)	Leave for the birth, adoption or placement of a child with an employee as described in Subparagraphs a-1, a-2, and a-3, must conclude within one year from the date of the birth, adoption or placement of the child.
g)	The leave mentioned in this section is subject to the following restrictions and privileges:
1)	An employee must first use all available unused earned paid sick leave before unpaid FMLA leave will be granted.
2)	The employee will be restored to his/her former position unless the employee's position has been affected by reduction in force and/or layoff.
3)	The Board shall require materials documenting the reason for the leave before granting a leave of absence under this section.
4)	It is the responsibility of the employee to obtain the necessary documentation and to furnish the documentation to the Board.
5)	The Board may request verification of a medical condition for which leave has been granted under this section at any reasonable interval, but not more often than once every thirty days, unless: a. the employee requests an extension of leave;
b.	circumstances described by the original documentation have changed significantly (i.e., the duration of the illness, the nature of the illness, complications); or
c.	the employer receives information that casts doubt upon the continuing validity of the documentation.
6)	If the Board pays the employee contributions missed by the employee while on leave, the employee will be required to reimburse the Board for delinquent payments (on a payroll deduction schedule) upon return from leave. The employee will be required to sign a written statement at the beginning of the leave period authorizing the payroll deduction for delinquent payments. If an employee fails to return to work for the Board after FMLA leave, the Board shall take necessary steps to recover its share of the health benefit premium payments made on the employee's behalf during a period of unpaid FMLA leave unless the employee's position has been affected by reduction in force and/or layoff.
7)	An employee may continue coverage by continuing to pay the employee's portion of the premiums, including dependent coverage, while on leave.
8)	The employee must notify the Board as soon as practicable once the employee knows that a leave will be needed. For a foreseeable leave, such as for birth, adoption or planned medical treatment, the employee must provide at least 30 days notice to the Board. In all cases, the employee must furnish a request to the Board on a form provided by the Board.
9)	Prior to the employee's return to work from an employee disability, the employee shall submit medical certification of the employee's fitness to return to work.
10)	The Board retains the right to implement reasonable rules and regulations with regard to the use of leaves of absence within the requirements of the FMLA. This includes but is not limited to requiring a second opinion, at the Board's discretion, from a Board-paid doctor with regard to a medical disability, and the use of forms for requests for leave, physician documentation and fitness to return to work.
11)	In the event that the Board exercises its right to a second medical opinion and the opinion conflicts with the first doctor's opinion in the medical certification, then a third opinion may be required by a Board-paid physician mutually agreed upon by the Board and employee. This third opinion will be final and binding upon the Board and the employee.
h)	Intermittent Leave or Reduced Leave -- An eligible employee who is entitled to a twelve-week leave under the provisions of this section may take that leave on an intermittent or reduced leave schedule in certain cases. An intermittent leave schedule is one in which the employee may take the allowable leave intermittently, or in blocks of days at a time, as needed. A reduced leave schedule is one in which the employee's daily or weekly hours are reduced, as needed. Leave will be granted intermittently or on a reduced leave basis in the case of the serious health condition of the employee or of the child, spouse or parent of the employee, provided that it is medically necessary and that a certification from a physician is obtained. The amount of Family and Medical Leave used where an employee takes leave intermittently
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE VIII - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Page 33
or on a reduced leave schedule will be determined in accordance with the applicable regulations of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, currently §825.205 of the Interim Regulations.
i)	Effect of Leave on Board-Paid Benefits -- During the period of leave governed by this section, the Board will pay the portion of the insurance premium which it normally paid prior to the leave, such as major medical, surgical, dental, vision, life, and flexible benefits.
END OF ARTICLE VIII
ARTICLE IX - SAFETY AND HEALTH
SECTION A	- Safety
1.	It shall be the responsibility of the Board to ensure that teachers will not have unsafe, hazardous, or unsanitary working conditions. No teacher shall be required to work under unsafe, hazardous, or unsanitary conditions. Further, teachers shall report to the principal any condition felt to be unsafe, hazardous, or unsanitary.
2.	The Board agrees that periodic inspections will be performed for fire and safety, and specified modifications resulting from said inspections will be made. Required modifications shall be scheduled by the Board, with those presenting a clear and present danger being scheduled first.
3.	The Board shall indemnify and save harmless all teachers from any claims, demands, suits, and causes of action of any kind whatsoever arising out of unsafe and/or hazardous conditions within the school.
4.	Safety Promotion Program
a)	District Safety Committee
1.	The Union president or his/her designee will be appointed as a member of the District Safety Committee.
2.	At least one member of the committee shall be a teacher. The teacher(s) on the District committee shall be selected from the lists of teachers who serve on worksite committees.
3.	When meetings are held during duty hours, teacher committee members will be released without charge to sick or vacation leave.
b)	Worksite Safety Committee
1.	At least one member of the Worksite Safety Committee shall be a teacher at the worksite.
2.	When meetings are held during duty hours, teacher committee members will be released without charge to sick or vacation leave.
SECTION B	- Workers' Compensation
Any teacher employed by the Board and injured while performing his/her duty shall be protected as provided by the Workers' Compensation Act.
1.	Injury and Illness
a)	In the event a teacher is injured in the discharge of duty and/or suffers from an illness arising out of such injury and/or contracts an infection or disease resulting from teacher-pupil contact time, said teacher shall be entitled to illness-in-the-line-of-duty leave for a period not to exceed ten (10) days. In addition, the Board may grant additional leave for such term as deemed appropriate.
b)	During the course of absences under this section, the teacher shall receive an amount not to exceed his/her normal compensation and shall be entitled to continue full benefits for the school year in which the injury occurred. Benefits are to include but are not limited to credit for seniority, step increase and contributions to the Florida Retirement System as provided by FRS. In addition, payments shall be made to teachers for damage to dentures, eyeglasses, prosthetic devices, and artificial limbs when the damage results from an accident occurring in the normal course of employment.
c)	When a teacher is absent from his/her teaching responsibilities as a result of any provision in this section, there shall be no deduction made for sick leave allowance credited to such teacher.
2.	Any teacher who has any claim for compensation while absent under this section shall file a claim in the manner prescribed in Florida Statute 1012.63(2) by the end of each month during which such absence has
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE IX - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Page 34
occurred. The Board shall approve such claims and authorize the payment thereof provided that the Board shall satisfy itself that the claim correctly states the facts and that such claim is entitled to payment in accordance with the provisions of this section.
SECTION C	- Assault, Battery, and Disability
1.	Assault and Battery
In case of any assault and/or battery upon a teacher in the course of his/her employment, the Board shall provide legal counsel to advise the teacher of his/her rights and obligations with respect to such assault and/or battery and shall promptly render assistance necessary to the teacher in connection with handling of the incident by law enforcement and judicial authorities. In addition, any threat of personal injury or property damage made by a student toward a teacher shall be assessed through the district’s Violence Intervention Procedures for Elementary or Secondary Schools to determine the credibility of such threat. The student shall be removed from the teacher’s class until the threat assessment is concluded and the teacher is notified of the assessment results. If the threat is made by a person not under the jurisdiction of the school board, the teacher will not be required to meet with that person until the matter has been investigated and documented by the principal and the teacher has been notified of the results of that investigation. The teacher has the right to have an administrator present at any future meetings with the person making the threat.
2.	Death or Disability
Compensation for death or disability shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Law.
SECTION D	- Personal Property
1.	The Board shall budget a sum of $2000.00 each year to a reimbursement account to reimburse any eligible teacher upon proof of claim for clothing and/or personal property destroyed or damaged as a result of any assault or vandalism upon said teacher in the course of fulfilling his/her employment responsibilities or from any act by the teacher for the purpose of preventing injury to persons or damage to property located on the school site during the times when the teacher is on said site at any school-related activity.
No claim covered under other provisions of this Agreement shall be paid from this account.
If any portion of this account is not expended in any year of this Agreement, an amount equal to the unexpended sum shall be budgeted in addition to the $2000.00 for the following year.
2.	If said clothing and/or personal property is insured, the employee must submit a claim to the appropriate insurance company. In the event of full reimbursement for such claim, the Board shall make no payment. If the insurance company reimburses all but the deductible amount specified in the employee's policy, the Board will pay an amount equal to the deductible amount not to exceed $500. If the claim is for less than the deductible amount specified or the clothing or personal property is not insured, the Board will pay an amount equal to the current value of the property not to exceed $500.
3.	To be eligible for reimbursement as described in paragraph 1, the teacher must report the damage to the worksite supervisor as soon as possible and complete the Comprehensive Accident-Injury/Loss form and submit it to the worksite supervisor.
The reimbursement of damaged or vandalized personal property (other than motor vehicle) is limited to those items that the teacher uses to perform his/her job and/or duty responsibilities.
In the event the claim is for vandalism to the teacher's personal vehicle, a copy of his/her automobile insurance policy declaration page and an estimate for repair must be included with the Comprehensive Accident/Injury/Loss Form.
Payment of the claim is subject to the approval by USEP President and Director of Employee Relations.
SECTION E	- Liability
The Board agrees to maintain liability coverage of not less than that currently in force as stipulated in the agreement(s) with Arthur J. Gallagher and Company and pertinent insurance carriers for the duration of this Agreement. Any teacher who has any claim under provisions of said policy may file such claim with the Board. The Board shall process all claims filed in accordance with this section provided that the claim falls within the incidents covered under such policy.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE IX - SAFETY AND HEALTH
Page 35
END OF ARTICLE IX
ARTICLE X - SALARY AND TEACHER WELFARE
SECTION A	- Salary Schedule and Remunerations
1.	The regular salary schedules, attached as Addendum A, shall be adhered to for all teachers.
2.	Placement on the salary schedules, entitled Addendum A, shall be adhered to for all teachers.
3.	Each teacher assigned to a supplemented activity shall receive a written statement of the additional responsibilities for which he/she is responsible and the amount of the supplement to be awarded for such.
4.	Mileage shall be reimbursed at the standard rate established by the District School Board of Pasco County but shall not be at a lesser rate than allowed by the State Department of Education rules and regulations in effect at the time the mileage was accrued.
5.	Payroll check stubs shall contain gross salary for each pay period, an itemized accounting of payroll deductions/reductions made during each pay period, net salary figures per pay period, accrued sick leave, and vacation time.
6.	The Board agrees to provide each teacher with his/her W-2 form on or before January 31.
7.	All payroll deductions/reductions approved by the Board and authorized by the teacher shall be made by the Board at no cost to said teacher. Such deductions/reductions shall be remitted to the proper agencies within five (5) days after the payroll date in which the deduction/reductions are made.
8.	Underpayment and Overpayment
a)	In the event any teacher feels that he/she has been underpaid, the following procedures shall be followed:
1)	Said teacher shall notify the Superintendent or his/her designee of alleged underpayment and the supporting reasons for the allegation.
2)	The Superintendent or his/her designee shall investigate the above allegation and notify the teacher in writing, providing an explanation and/or verification of the allegation within ten (10) days of the complaint.
3)	In the event that an underpayment has been verified, the teacher shall receive the full amount of underpayment in the paycheck issued immediately following the verification date.
b)	Any unreported underpayment shall be corrected as soon as possible, with underpayments being corrected by the payroll date following discovery.
c)	In the event any teacher is overpaid by the Board, the following procedure shall be in effect:
1)	Notification of said overpayment shall be provided in writing to the teacher. Said notification shall contain the supporting reasons for and dates of overpayment.
2)	The teacher shall reimburse the Board the full amount of verified overpayment on a basis mutually agreeable to the teacher and the Superintendent or his/her designee. Said repayment shall not extend beyond the oncoming fiscal year.
9.	Paychecks will be made available or delivered no later than the last two (2) hours of the workday on each pay date and shall be enclosed in a sealed envelope. However, paychecks may be picked up by all personnel until the end of the regular workday at each school.
10.	The Board shall make provisions upon request and approval by any unit member to deposit his/her paycheck directly to the Suncoast Schools Federal Credit Union or to any other financial institution associated with the Automated Clearing House Bank Program. Such funds will be transmitted for deposit no later than 4:00 p.m. on the day preceding each payday and will be credited for withdrawal in accordance with the procedure established by the Credit Union and/or the approved financial institution receiving the employee’s payroll transfer.
SECTION B	- Fringe Benefits
1.	Health Insurance
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE X - SALARY AND TEACHER WELFARE
Page 36
a)	The Board agrees to contribute $4,711.82 per eligible employee toward the cost of the benefits package for the 2006 insurance plan year. An alternative Health Opt-Out Program shall be provided to bargaining unit members who do not choose one of the Board-approved health plans.
b)	It is agreed that the Board and the Union shall appoint an Insurance Committee consisting of six (6) members - three (3) representing the Board and three (3) representing the Union - for the purpose of reviewing rates and investigating and recommending coverages to the Board and the Union for the purpose of negotiating the aforementioned insurance in subsequent years. The Committee shall meet no later than April 1 of each school year.
c)	Teachers who work four (4) hours per day or twenty (20) hours or more per week for ninety (90) days or more per year shall be eligible for health insurance to the same extent as full-time teachers.
d)	All teachers shall be given the option of choosing dependent coverage, and the cost of such coverage which exceeds the individual premium cost shall be deducted, upon authorization, from said teacher's paycheck. The rates for dependent coverage shall be furnished to the bargaining unit members and provided to the Union prior to the annual open enrollment date.
e)	The open enrollment for health insurance shall be a minimum of thirty (30) calendar days. Date of open enrollment will be held prior to the anniversary date of the policy.
f)	Any teacher whose dependent status changes who wishes to add or delete dependent coverage after the enrollment period shall be restricted only by the provisions as stated in the Benefit Enrollment/Change Form (MIS#161).
2.	Retirement
The Board agrees to comply with the Florida Retirement System’s rules and regulations relative to employee contributions.
SECTION C	- Payroll Deduction for Additional Benefits
1.	The parties agree that the Union will be provided with two (2) payroll deduction slots in addition to the dues deduction slot. These slots will be used for Union-designated programs to include but not be limited to purchasing additional insurance, annuity, or other related benefits; voluntary Political Action Committee (PAC) donations; or other Union-sponsored voluntary deduction programs for bargaining unit members.
2.	The Union agrees to reimburse the Board for any actual start-up or programming cost incurred which are normally charged to other groups who benefit from payroll deduction services.
3.	A single payment will be remitted after each pay period to a depository designated by the Union for each of the two (2) additional payroll deduction slots.
SECTION D	- Early Retirement Monthly Benefit
1.	Effective January 1, 1997, the Board shall provide a retirement benefit for all instructional bargaining unit members.
To qualify for an early retirement benefit, the instructional bargaining unit member must meet the following criteria:
a)	be 50 years of age or older at the time of retirement;
b)	have 25 or more years of creditable FRS service;
c)	employed on or before June 30, 2001 and who have reached Step 13 on the teacher salary schedule, or whose number of years of experience in the Pasco school district is equal to the number of years of service on Step 13 of the teacher salary schedule, or teachers hired on or after July 1, 2001 who have twelve (12) years of Pasco service, the last ten (10) of which must be Pasco continuous service; and
d)	have retired under the Florida Retirement System (FRS) Defined Benefit Plan (Pension Plan) or who retires with any vested benefit in the Defined Benefit Plan (Pension Plan).
e)	Effective July 1, 2001, those instructional bargaining unit members who meet the above criteria will be eligible to receive the early retirement benefit in accordance with the following:
f)	A member who is at least fifty (50) years of age but less than fifty-five (55) years of age at the time of early retirement will receive an amount equal to thirty-five percent (35%) of the unreduced FRS
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE X - SALARY AND TEACHER WELFARE
Page 37
retirement benefit. The unreduced FRS retirement benefit is calculated using the premise of the member being sixty-two (62) years of age at the time of retirement.
g)	A member who is at least fifty-five (55) years of age but less than sixty-two (62) years of age at the time of early retirement will receive an amount equal to one-hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the unreduced FRS benefit and the reduced FRS early retirement benefit.
h)	At the time of early retirement, if the early retirement monthly benefit has a single sum value (present value) of less than five thousand dollars ($5,000) as of the date the early retirement monthly benefit is first effective, then the Board will provide a one-time lump sum payment equal to the single sum value (present value) of the early retirement monthly benefit.
i)	In lieu of the above, for any employee meeting the above eligibility criteria and who has out-of-state service, or any other qualifying service, and is eligible to purchase such service according to FRS rules and regulations, the district may purchase such service if the purchase of such service would total 30 years and entitle the employee to full retirement under FRS. It is clearly understood that the Board shall provide the monthly benefit or out-of-state service or any other qualifying service whichever is more economical for the Board.
2.	This provision shall not prohibit the Board from paying additional retirement bonuses provided for in this Agreement or future bonuses agreed to by the Board and the Union.
3.	No employee shall be required by the Board to take advantage of the provisions of this article.
4.	If an employee chooses one of these aforementioned early retirement options, the Board will have no further obligation toward his/her retirement benefits.
5.	A teacher who selects one of these aforementioned early retirement options is required to retire from the Florida Retirement System (FRS) and terminate his/her employment with the district. Therefore, such teacher is not eligible to participate in the Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP) as the DROP requires a teacher to retire from the FRS yet continue to work within the district.
SECTION E	- Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP)
1.	Effective July 1, 1998, employees who qualify for the Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP) may elect to participate in that program as provided by the procedures set forth by the district and by Florida Statute 121.091. An employee’s salary, benefits, terms, and conditions of employment, as specified in this Agreement will remain in full force during the employee’s participation in the DROP. An employee can void his/her DROP participation at the DROP termination date, re-enroll in FRS and continue in his/her current position in the district, by making such request in writing to the Board at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to his/her original DROP termination date. An employee may resign his/her employment with the Board and terminate his/her participation in DROP prior to the original DROP termination date by submitting an amended resignation to the Board.
2.	Employees who elect to enter DROP and elect to receive a lump-sum payment of accrued vacation (annual) leave earned in accordance with Board policy upon beginning participation in DROP, shall have said lumpsum payment paid into a Board-approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and/or an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan subject to annual contribution limits. Employees who receive a lump-sum payment of accrued (annual) leave upon termination of DROP and termination of employment shall have said lump-sum payment paid into a Board-approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and/or an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan subject to annual contribution limits.
3.	Effective July 1, 1999, employees who enter the Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP) and are eligible for one hundred percent (100%) of their accumulated terminal sick leave in accordance with the Meritorious Attendance Incentive Pay, Article X, Section G of the Instructional Master Contract, shall have their accumulated terminal sick leave paid into a Board-approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and/or an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan subject to annual contribution limits and according to the following.
4.	The initial payment will be made on June 30th following the employee’s DROP effective date. Subsequent payments shall be made each June 30th following the employee’s DROP effective date anniversary.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE X - SALARY AND TEACHER WELFARE
Page 38
Payment	Payment Date	Maximum Percentage of Accumulated Terminal Sick Leave Days
1	June 30	23.3%
2	June 30	25.6%
3	June 30	36.0%
4	June 30	50.8%
5 or more	June 30	86.1%
Final	Upon Separation	100.0%
5.	The rate of pay used to calculate the amount to be placed in the 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and/or an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan shall be the employee’s rate of pay upon entering DROP or the employee’s rate of pay on each payment date. The employee must elect the rate of pay option upon entering DROP. The rate of pay used for the Employer Paid 403(b) Plan is the same rate of pay used in the 401 (a) Qualified Retirement Plan.
6.	The 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and the Employer Paid 403(b) Plan allows participating employees to defer federal income tax and permanently avoid the payment of Social Security tax and Medicare tax on eligible plan contributions.
7.	Employees/DROP participants do not have access to these funds until after they terminate their employment.
8.	Employees of the Board who enter the Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP) remain eligible for Sick Leave Bank participation. However, terminal sick leave days that have been paid to the Board approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and/or an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan shall be treated as if those days still remain in the employee’s accumulated terminal sick leave balance when determining commencement of sick leave bank benefits, so long as the employee has met the requirements of the Sick Leave Bank appropriate to his/her bargaining unit contract.
Fund Withdrawal: Employees under fifty-five (55) years of age.
9.	All participating employees who are under fifty-five (55) years of age at the time of termination and choose at the time of termination to take a cash distribution in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of their respective balance from the Board approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and/or an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan and are assessed a ten percent (10%) withdrawal penalty, shall be reimbursed 2.35% of the withdrawal by the Board. This reimbursement is an amount equal to the difference between the ten percent (10%) withdrawal penalty and the current Social Security and Medicare combined tax contribution rate of 7.65%. If the withdrawal penalty and/or Social Security and Medicare tax rates change, the Board and Union agree to renegotiate the reimbursement rate. If a fee is charged to process the IRS 1099 form, the Board will reimburse these same employees the one-time administrative fee.
10.	Upon separation of service or a June 30th payment of accumulated sick leave and maximizing the 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan contribution, any remaining terminal pay for accrued sick leave or vacation leave, subject to Board and State limitations, will be deposited in an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan. The Employer Paid 403(b) Plan is similar to the 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan except for contribution limits.
SECTION F	- Retiree Healthcare Premium
1.	Teachers who retire after January 1, 1997, the Board agrees to contribute the same amount toward the retiree's health premium each year as it does towards the regular employee's premium. This contribution will begin upon retirement and continue until the retiree is eligible to receive Medicare Benefits. This contribution is contingent upon the retiree meeting all of the following conditions:
a)	30 years of service under the FRS or at least 25 years of service under FRS and is at least age 50 at retirement;
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE X - SALARY AND TEACHER WELFARE
Page 39
b)	at least 20 years of service in the district;
c)	contributes his/her health insurance subsidy received from the State of Florida toward the cost of this medical premium; and,
d)	continues to participate in a Board-sponsored health plan after his/her retirement.
2.	Effective July 1, 2000, if a teacher retires as a result of full disability, funds from the insurance funds retained earnings will be used to contribute the same amount toward the retiree's health premium (medical, dental, and vision) each year as the Board does toward the premium of a regular employee. The contribution will begin upon retirement and continue until the retiree receives Medicare benefits or until twenty-four (24) months have elapsed from the date of retirement, whichever comes first.
This condition is contingent upon the retiree meeting all of the following conditions:
a)	the teacher must have completed at least ten (10) years of creditable service under the Florida Retirement System (FRS);
b)	the teacher must have completed at least ten (10) years of service in the district;
c)	the teacher must be approved for full disability retirement under FRS and have provided the district with proof of application for full disability retirement under the Social Security Administration;
d)	the teacher must contribute his/her health insurance subsidy received from the State of Florida toward the cost of the health premium; and
e)	continues to participate in a Board-sponsored health plan after his/her retirement.
SECTION G	- Meritorious Attendance Incentive Pay
1.	Retirement Incentives
The District School Board of Pasco County will provide meritorious attendance incentive pay to members of the bargaining unit at normal retirement (retirement under any established retirement plan with full or reduced benefits as provided by law) or to the bargaining unit member's beneficiaries if service is terminated by death. Meritorious attendance incentive pay shall be determined as follows:
a)	During the first three (3) years of service in a Florida school district, the daily rate of pay multiplied by 35 percent (35%) times the number of days of accumulated sick leave credited with the District School Board of Pasco County.
b)	During the next three (3) years of service in a Florida school district, the daily rate of pay multiplied by 40 percent (40%) times the number of days of accumulated sick leave credited with the District School Board of Pasco County.
c)	During the next three (3) years of service in a Florida school district, the daily rate of pay multiplied by 45 percent (45%) times the number of days of accumulated sick leave credited with the District School Board of Pasco County.
d)	During and after the tenth (10th) year of service in a Florida school district, the daily rate of pay multiplied by 50 percent (50%) times the number of days of accumulated sick leave credited with the District School Board of Pasco County.
e)	During and after the fifteenth (15th) year of service in the Pasco school district, the daily rate of pay multiplied by 75 percent (75%) times the number of days of accumulated sick leave credited with the District School Board of Pasco County.
f)	During and after the twentieth (20th) year of service in the Pasco school district, the daily rate of pay multiplied by the number of days (100 percent) of accumulated sick leave credited with the District School Board of Pasco County.
g)	Payment of meritorious incentive pay shall be made no later than thirty (30) days after completion of all the following steps:
1)	Written statement regarding disposition of accrued sick leave.
2)	Last day of employment.
3)	Board action on termination.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE X - SALARY AND TEACHER WELFARE
Page 40
h)	The Board will provide a 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and/or an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan that defers federal income tax and permanently avoids the payment of Social Security and Medicare tax on meritorious attendance incentive pay for those employees retiring under the Florida Retirement System (FRS) with full or reduced benefits and who meet the following:
Years of Service	Minimum Accumulated Sick Leave Balance
Ten (10) years creditable FRS service	240 hrs.
During and after the 15 th year of service in the Pasco County School District	160 hrs.
During and after the 20th year of service in the Pasco County School District	120 hrs.
Subject to annual plan contribution limits and the requirements specified above, payment to a Board-approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and/or an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan shall be credited in the name of the employee upon retirement.
Fund Withdrawal: Employees under fifty-five (55) years of age.
All participating employees who are under fifty-five (55) years of age at the time of termination and choose at the time of termination to take a cash distribution in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of their respective balance from the Board-approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and/or an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan and are assessed a ten percent (10%) withdrawal penalty, shall be reimbursed 2.35% of the withdrawal by the Board. This reimbursement is an amount equal to the difference between the ten percent (10%) withdrawal penalty and the current Social Security and Medicare combined tax contribution rate of 7.65%. If the withdrawal penalty and/or Social Security and Medicare tax rates change, the Board and Union agree to renegotiate the reimbursement rate. If a fee is charged to process the IRS 1099 form, the Board will reimburse these same employees the one-time administrative fee.
i)	Teachers who retire under the Florida Retirement System (FRS) with full or reduced benefits as provided by law and who receive a lump-sum payment of accrued vacation leave earned in accordance with Board policy and who meet the participation requirements provided in Article X, Section G-1h) of this Agreement, shall have said lump-sum payment of accrued vacation leave paid into a Board-approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and/or an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan subject to annual contribution limit and subject to the same fund withdrawal penalty reimbursement as provided in Article X, Section G-1h) of this Agreement.
2.	Plan Contributions
Upon separation of service and maximizing the 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan contribution, any remaining terminal pay for accrued sick leave or vacation leave, subject to Board and State limitations, will be deposited in an Employer Paid 403(b) Plan. The Employer Paid 403(b) Plan is similar to the 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan except for contribution limits.
3.	Separation Incentives
If employment is terminated for any reason other than retirement or death, members of the bargaining unit shall receive one-half (1/2) the percentage of all accumulated sick leave as stipulated in the schedule in Article X, Section G, paragraphs 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, 1e, and 1f. This language shall not apply to employees who choose to transfer their accumulated sick leave to another Florida school district.
SECTION H	- Group Medical Benefits Recovery Incentive Program (Indemnity - PPO and HMO Programs)
The District School Board of Pasco County agrees to establish a Group Medical Benefits Recovery Incentive Program. This program is designed to provide a cash incentive to employees who discover and arrange for the recovery by the group medical benefits carrier/administrator of overcharges made on their own or insured dependents' medical bills which in turn result in benefit dollars saved by the employees' Group Medical Benefits Plan.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE X - SALARY AND TEACHER WELFARE
Page 41
1.	The cash incentive paid to an insured employee who discovers an overcharge on a medical bill for that employee or his/her dependent and paid as an allowable charge by the School Board group medical benefits carrier/administrator shall be fifty percent (50%) of the amount of the over-charge that is recovered by the group medical benefits carrier/administrator as a result of direct negotiations between the employee and the provider and shall be limited to a maximum of 1,000 dollars for each overcharge. No refund shall be made to the insured employee until the group medical benefits carrier/administrator receives the actual refund from the provider of service.
2.	For purposes of the cash incentive, only hospital expenses, clinical laboratory charges, physician fees, and other eligible medical expenses covered by the Group Medical Benefits Plan shall be considered in determining the amount payable to insured employees under this program.
3.	The employee shall contact the Union to obtain a Request for Reimbursement form and procedures. After the overcharge has been recovered, the group medical benefits carrier/administrator shall disburse a check to the employee in the amount of the cash incentive. Cash incentives are considered income to employees for tax purposes and subject to being reported on their federal income tax return.
4.	The Board shall not get involved in resolving any differences between the employee and the medical providers of service with respect to disputed charges. Insured employees shall be solely responsible for handling such disputes.
SECTION I	- Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
An Employee Assistance Program (EAP) will be provided for the purpose of offering employees, upon their request, short-term counseling and/or assistance with referrals for appropriate services. The program will also promote programs for wellness, nutrition, exercise, and stress reduction.
Participation or nonparticipation in the EAP shall be voluntary and shall not be a factor in any adverse employment action by the Board. All personally identifiable information relating to an employee as a result of an employee’s participation in the EAP shall be held in strictest confidence by the director and staff of the EAP and such shall not be made a part of or otherwise noted in the employee’s personnel file.
An EAP Committee will be established for the purpose of evaluating the services provided which shall include, but not be limited to, the services provided, the cost and funding source, availability, accessibility, utilization, and its effectiveness toward meeting the needs of the employees. The committee shall meet periodically during the school year and by May 1 of each year shall make recommendations to the Board and USEP for the purpose of further negotiating the improvement and/or revision of the program. The EAP Committee will function as a sub-committee of the current Insurance Committee. The Board and USEP will mutually agree to appoint members to the EAP sub-committee who are not current members of the Insurance Committee. The EAP Committee shall consist of an equal number of members selected by the Board and USEP.
The USEP President maintains the right to review and approve any EAP materials and attend any meetings intended for the promotion of the EAP to bargaining unit members.
END OF ARTICLE X
ARTICLE XI - SUMMER SCHOOL
SECTION A - Filling of Positions
1.	Announcements of summer school dates will be posted in each school in the district and given to the Union on or before May 1. Tentative job openings will be announced by the last student day.
2.	When it is judged that professional qualifications and ability are substantially equal among applicants for summer school teaching positions, district seniority shall prevail.
3.	Summer school assignments shall be voluntary. Any teacher choosing not to accept such assignments shall not be penalized.
4.	When filling summer school teaching positions, teachers within the bargaining unit shall be given priority over other applicants.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE XI - SUMMER SCHOOL
Page 42
SECTION B	- Length of the Summer School Day/Term
1.	An employee who teaches one (1) instructional session per day shall be employed for no less than 120 hours and no more than 160 hours per summer school session.
2.	An employee who teaches two (2) instructional sessions per day will be employed for no less than 225 hours and no more than 300 hours during the summer school session.
3.	The school principal will make every effort to schedule a teacher employed to teach summer school with preparation time each day.
SECTION C	- Compensation and Contingencies
1.	Summer school teachers shall be paid at the rate established in Addendum A of this Agreement, and the Board will make the normal contributions for social security and state retirement.
2.	The Board will notify the Union of the summer school pay dates, along with the number of days to be paid for in each check, no later than the last working day for teachers in the current school year.
3.	A teacher employed for one (1) instructional session per day will be allotted one-half (1/2) day paid sick leave per month. A teacher employed in summer school for two (2) instructional sessions per day will be allotted one (1) paid sick leave day for each full month of employment.
4.	The allotted summer school sick days shall be accrued on a cumulative basis. Sick days earned during the regular school year may be used during the summer school session. On one occasion, one day, (the number of hours worked daily in summer session) may be used as a personal day charged to sick leave provided:
a)	the employee has not used all 6 personal days from the previous school year;
b)	the employee has accrued a sufficient number of sick leave hours;
c)	the nature of the absence is that of an emergency; and
d)	the reason for the absence is explained to the principal or his/her designee.
END OF ARTICLE XI
ARTICLE XII	- RULES GOVERNING THIS AGREEMENT
SECTION A - Conformity to Law
In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall at any time be said to be contrary to law by a court of competent jurisdiction from whose final judgment or decree no appeal has been taken within the time provided for doing so, such provision shall be void and inoperative to the extent that it violates the law; however, all other provisions of this Agreement shall continue in effect. Substitute action, if any, shall be subject to appropriate negotiation and agreement between the parties.
SECTION B
With regard to matters which are proper subjects of collective bargaining in that they relate to matters of hours, wages or conditions of employment and within the duration period of this Agreement, changes in existing policies, rules, or regulations or any new policy, rule, or regulation may be the subject of negotiations upon mutual consent of the Superintendent and the Union.
SECTION C
The articles in this Agreement supersede and override conflicting items in individual teacher contracts or Board policies. Further, the Board agrees that said policies shall be amended to conform to the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION D
Whenever any notice is required to be given either party to this Agreement by the other party, either shall do so by registered letter at the following address:
If to the Union: P.O. Box 1098
Land O' Lakes, FL 34639
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE XII - RULES GOVERNING THIS AGREEMENT
Page 43
If to the Board: 7227 Land O' Lakes Blvd. Land O' Lakes, FL 34638
END OF ARTICLE XII
ARTICLE XIII	- DURATION
1.	This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until midnight, June 30, 2008, except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 below and shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless written notice to modify or amend is given by either party at least ninety (90) days before the aforementioned expiration date. In the event such notice is given, negotiations shall commence within a reasonable time after the giving of such notice.
2.	During any reopening of negotiations for changes to take effect during the term of this Agreement, the existing provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until modified sections are executed.
3.	This Agreement may be reopened upon request of either party if any item is affected by legislation or by mutual consent of both parties.
4.	This Agreement shall be reopened for the 2006-2007 and 2007-2008 school years upon request of either party on Article X and Addenda A and B. Other items may be reopened if affected by legislation or by mutual consent of both parties. In addition, the Union and Board may each select three (3) additional items for reopeners.
5.	This Agreement contained herein constitutes the full and complete agreement between the Union and the Board and shall not be changed, altered, modified, or amended by either party except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE FOLLOWING HAVE SET THEIR SIGNATURES AND SEALS TO BE EFFECTIVE THE 23rd DAY OF AUGUST 2005
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ARTICLE XIII - DURATION
Page 44
ADDENDUM A
SALARY SCHEDULE
Rules Governing the Salary Schedule
1.	Salary Schedules
a)	Salary Schedule #55
All teachers except those assigned to an alternative school for disruptive students shall be paid according to salary schedule #55 and the rules governing its application.
b)	Salary Schedule #55A
Teachers assigned to an alternative school shall be paid according to salary schedule #55A and the rules governing its application.
c)	Summer School Schedule
Teachers employed for the year 1999-2000 Summer School will be paid at ninety percent (90%) of their regular hourly rate as determined by salary schedule 55 in the Instructional Master Contract in effect for the preceding school year.
Teachers employed for the year 2000-2001 Summer School will be paid at ninety-five (95%) of their regular hourly rate as determined by salary schedule 55 in the Instructional Master Contract in effect for the preceding school year.
Teachers employed for the year 2001-2002 Summer School will be paid at one hundred (100%) of their regular hourly rate as determined by salary schedule 55 in the Instructional Master Contract in effect for the preceding school year.
d)	Part-Time Adult Education
Teachers regularly employed as full-time teachers in the district shall be paid their regular hourly rate as provided by subsection nine (9) of this section, exclusive of supplements, for a part-time adult education instructional assignment which is F.T.E. supported. This rate will not be applicable to fee supported courses.
e)	Part-Time Homebound Instruction
Teachers regularly employed as full-time teachers in the district shall be paid their regular hourly rate as provided by subsection nine (9) of this section, exclusive of supplements, for a part-time homebound instructional assignment.
f)	After-Hour Required ESE Activities
Teachers who attend any required ESE activities after regular work hours related to IEP development and/or ESE Matrix Computation shall be paid at their regular hourly rate. Such time must be preapproved by the school principal.
g)	After-Hour Staff Development Activities
If payment is provided, teachers who attend after-hour staff development activities will be paid at the rate of $14.00 per hour. (This increase will be effective August 29, 2005.)
h)	After-Hour Instructional Programs
Effective June 6, 2002, a teacher employed in any after-hour program for the purpose of instructing students, will be compensated at his/her regular rate of pay. In the event funds provided for an after-hour instructional program couldn’t support the regular hourly rate, the Board will notify the Union and discuss the salary exceptions.
i)	Noncertificated
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
Page 45
Noncertificated bargaining unit members shall be paid on salary schedule #55 or #55A and the rules governing its application.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
SALARY SCHEDULE
Page 46
2.	Performance Pay Program
Effective July 1, 1998, a Performance Pay Program will be implemented. Beginning with the 2002-2003 school year, Section 230.23(5)(c), F.S., requires each district to include in its salary structure a provision to fund an additional five percent (5%) supplement to those instructional personnel who demonstrate outstanding performance and to include in its annual budget sufficient monies to fully fund this requirement. An instructional employee demonstrating such outstanding performance in accordance with the DSBPC Pay for Performance Procedures Manual shall receive an additional five percent (5%) of his/her regular salary excluding all supplements/stipends other than those supplements that are required of the position. Should Florida Statutes delete or revise this requirement, the Board and Union agree to meet for the purpose of continuing, deleting, and/or revising this provision. The program is described in part in Addendum E.
3.	Teaching/Related Creditable Work Experience
Newly employed teachers shall be placed on the salary schedule as follows:
a)	Effective July 1, 2001, all newly hired teachers shall be given year for year experience for each year of full-time teaching service for which a teacher held a valid teaching certificate and received a satisfactory evaluation. Other related creditable work experience for which the district counts toward placement on the salary schedule shall not exceed seven (7) years of service. When a combination of teaching experience and related-creditable work experience is to be considered, related-creditable work experience cannot be used to increase the total years beyond seven (7) years of experience.
b)	Prior to July 1, 2001, each year of teaching or creditable work experience shall be considered as experience within the district on a year-for-year basis to a maximum of seven (7) years for teachers employed after July 1, 1977. For all teachers employed prior to July 1, 1977, each year of teaching or creditable work experience shall be considered as experience within the district on a year-for-year basis to a maximum of ten (10) years.
c)	Any teacher employed in Pasco County whose teaching was interrupted due to active military service shall be granted experience for a maximum of four (4) years as if he/she had been teaching within the district.
d)	State Teacher of the Year: As provided by Florida Statute 1012.22(c)(2), creditable work experience shall be considered as experience within the district on a year-for-year basis for the total prior teaching experience of a person who has been designated state teacher of the year by any state in the United States.
e)	A Teacher-Headstart-Noncertified or Teacher-Prekindergarten-Noncertified shall be granted one (1) year for every two (2) years experience to a maximum of seven (7) years credit when he/she earns a Bachelor Degree and is eligible to receive a state teaching certificate. Such experience must be earned while serving in such capacity and within the district.
f)	In no event shall any experience credited to any teacher currently employed be diminished by the provisions of the above paragraphs.
4.	Advanced Degree/18 Hour Credit
Instructional personnel who wish to receive additional compensation for an advanced degree or eighteen (18) semester hours successfully completed after the conferral date of a bachelor’s or master’s degree, must submit to the Department of Human Resources one (1) set of official transcripts, the appropriate form, and in the case of a Specialist of Education degree, verification of being awarded the Specialist of Education degree and/or unconditional admission to candidacy for the Doctorate Degree. Upon receipt, a representative from the Department of Human Resources will verify that the degree/hours were taken at a college or university which is recognized as an accredited institution by the Florida Department of Education.
Instructional personnel who earn an advanced degree will receive the appropriate increase in salary in accordance with the applicable salary schedule retroactive to the first pay period following the conferral date of the advanced degree, and an adjustment will be made in subsequent paychecks.
In order for instructional personnel to be paid an Education Specialist rate of pay, the Education Specialist degree must have been conferred and/or the employee been unconditionally admitted to candidacy for the Doctorate Degree. The increase shall be effective retroactively to the first pay period following the term when the employee successfully completes his/her Education Specialist degree or the date of the employee’s unconditional admission to candidacy for the Doctorate Degree.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
SALARY SCHEDULE
Page 47
Instructional personnel who successfully complete eighteen (18) hours of credit after the conferral date of their bachelor’s or master’s degree will receive an increase in salary in accordance with the applicable salary schedule. This increase shall be retroactive to the first pay period following the term during which the last course which establishes eligibility is completed.
Credit hours under this agreement refer to semester hours. Quarter hours will be equated to semester hours by making a quarter hour equal to two-thirds (2/3) of a semester hour.
It is understood that it is the responsibility of the employee to initiate the above action. A representative from the Department of Human Resources will acknowledge receipt of the form and transcripts to the applying employee.
Retroactive action applies during the school year in which the form is submitted. For this purpose, a form accompanied with transcripts must be submitted to the Department of Human Resources no later than June 30. In case of extenuating circumstances, the June 30 deadline may be extended at the discretion of the Superintendent or his/her designee.
5.	Full Year of Experience
A teacher under employment for one day more than one half the number of days of any given school year which contains at least 196 days shall receive a full year of experience credit in determining the teacher's position on the salary schedule. Any adult education teacher who works a total of 750 hours or more during a school term (July 1 - June 30) will be granted one (1) year of experience for pay purposes.
6.	Pay Dates
All instructional employees shall be paid in twenty-six (26) equal installments. Teachers on a 196 day contract shall receive their first paycheck on August 19, 2005, and all subsequent paychecks will be issued at two (2) week intervals thereafter and five (5) paychecks at the end of the school year except those teachers who have unpaid leave reported to the leave department after May 18, 2006. Teachers who have unpaid leave reported to the leave department after May 18, 2006 will receive four (4) pay checks at the end of the school year and the fifth (5th) check will be issued on June 14, 2006. Adult education teachers on extended contracts (230 days) will receive their first paycheck on July 21, 2005, and all subsequent paychecks at two (2) week intervals thereafter. School psychologists shall receive their first paycheck on August 19, 2005, and all subsequent paychecks at two (2) week intervals thereafter. Teachers assigned to the alternative school will receive their first paycheck on August 19, 2005, and all subsequent paychecks at two (2) week intervals thereafter.
In the event that any regular pay date falls on a weekend or during any holiday period, paychecks shall be issued on the last working day preceding said weekend or holiday period. Further, after the end of the school year, teachers shall receive all paychecks owed them at the last regular pay date in June.
7.	Termination Pay Dates
A teacher who terminates his/her employment during the school year shall receive all pay owed him/her within twenty (20) days of the termination date except that as stipulated in Article X, Section G 1g) of this Agreement
8.	Daily Rate Calculation
A teacher's daily rate of pay shall be determined by the following formula: (total salary for days contracted as determined by placement on the salary schedule/total days contracted) + (required supplement/days contracted).
A required supplement is that which is attached to a regular full-time teaching position requiring an eight (8) hour workday. All other supplements are excluded from the above formula. Any other supplement which a teacher receives is excluded from the above calculation.
9.	Hourly Rate Calculation
When it is necessary that a teacher be paid his/her hourly rate, such rate will be calculated using the following formula (total salary as determined by placement on Salary Schedule #55 divided by 196), divided by 7.5.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
SALARY SCHEDULE
Page 48
10.	Marchman 1.2 Salary Rate
Instructors employed at Marchman Technical Education Center prior to July 1, 1997, will continue to receive compensation at the rate of 1.2 as long as their current teaching assignment remains the same. After July 1, 1997, teachers employed at Marchman will be compensated at the rate of 1.0.
11.	Moore Mickens 1.2 Salary Rate
The instructors currently serving either the Child Care Program or the Culinary Arts Program shall be paid at the salary rate of 1.2 retroactive to August 19, 1996 and will continue at this rate as long as they remain in these specific programs. Any instructor employed after July 1, 1997 in any Secondary Job Preparatory Program at Moore Mickens Education Center will be compensated at the rate of 1.0.
END OF ADDENDUM A
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
SALARY SCHEDULE
Page 49
2005-2006 SALARY SCHEDULE #55
INSTRUCTIONAL ANNUAL, PROFESSIONAL SERVICES, & CONTINUING CONTRACT
YRS OF EXP	STEP	BACHELOR	BACHELOR+18	MASTERS	MASTERS + 18	ED. SPEC.	DOCTOR
0	1	$33,100.	$33,900.	$35,800.	$36,500.	$37,500.	$38,500.
1	2	$33,400.	$34,200.	$36,100.	$36,800.	$37,800.	$38,800.
2	3	$33,700.	$34,500.	$36,400.	$37,100.	$38,100.	$39,100.
3	4	$34,000.	$34,800.	$36,700.	$37,400.	$38,400.	$39,400.
4	5	$34,350.	$35,150.	$37,050.	$37,750.	$38,750.	$39,750.
5	6	$34,700.	$35,500.	$37,400.	$38,100.	$39,100.	$40,100.
6	7	$35,100.	$35,900.	$37,800.	$38,500.	$39,500.	$40,500.
7	8	$35,500.	$36,300.	$38,200.	$38,900.	$39,900.	$40,900.
8	9	$36,000.	$36,800.	$38,700.	$39,400.	$40,400.	$41,400.
9	10	$36,550.	$37,350.	$39,250.	$39,950.	$40,950.	$41,950.
10	11	$37,150.	$37,950.	$39,850.	$40,550.	$41,550.	$42,550.
11	12	$37,800.	$38,600.	$40,500.	$41,200.	$42,200.	$43,200.
12	13	$38,450.	$39,250.	$41,150.	$41,850.	$42,850.	$43,850.
13	14	$39,150.	$39,950.	$41,850.	$42,550.	$43,550.	$44,550.
14	15	$39,900.	$40,700.	$42,600.	$43,300.	$44,300.	$45,300.
15	16	$40,700.	$41,500.	$43,400.	$44,100.	$45,100.	$46,100.
16	17	$41,550.	$42,350.	$44,250.	$44,950.	$45,950.	$46,950.
17	18	$42,450.	$43,250.	$45,150.	$45,850.	$46,850.	$47,850.
18	19	$43,450.	$44,250.	$46,150.	$46,850.	$47,850.	$48,850.
19	20	$44,450.	$45,250.	$47,150.	$47,850.	$48,850.	$49,850.
20	21	$45,450.	$46,250.	$48,150.	$48,850.	$49,850.	$50,850.
21	22	$46,450.	$47,250.	$49,150.	$49,850.	$50,850.	$51,850.
22	23	$47,450.	$48,250.	$50,150.	$50,850.	$51,850.	$52,850.
23	24	$48,550.	$49,350.	$51,250.	$51,950.	$52,950.	$53,950.
24	25	$49,700.	$50,500.	$52,400.	$53,100.	$54,100.	$55,100.
25	26	$50,900.	$51,700.	$53,600.	$54,300.	$55,300.	$56,300.
Pasco Service Incentive (PSI): Effective with the 2003-2004 school year, those teachers who have earned at least one year's service credit in Pasco on step 26 will receive an annual increase of $1,000. Each subsequent year of service credit earned in Pasco on step 26 will earn an additional $1,000 annually. Teachers on PSI receive $1,000 plus any improvement applied to the top step in their salary lane. For 2005-2006, a teacher at the BA level in his/her first year of PSI will earn an annual salary of $51,900, a teacher at the BA level in his/her second year of PSI will earn an annual salary of $52,900, and a teacher at the BA level in his/her third year of PSI will earn an annual salary of $53,900.							
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
SALARY SCHEDULE
Page 50
2005-2006 SALARY SCHEDULE #55A
INSTRUCTIONAL ALTERNATIVE (Includes 8-hour day and 204-day work year)							
YRS OF EXP	STEP	BACHELOR	BACHELOR+18	MASTERS	MASTERS + 18	ED. SPEC.	DOCTOR
0	1	$36,012.	$36,845.	$38,822.	$39,551.	$40,591.	$41,632.
1	2	$36,324.	$37,156.	$39,134.	$39,863.	$40,903.	$41,944.
2	3	$36,637.	$37,469.	$39,447.	$40,176.	$41,216.	$42,257.
3	4	$36,949.	$37,781.	$39,759.	$40,488.	$41,528.	$42,569.
4	5	$37,313.	$38,145.	$40,123.	$40,852.	$41,892.	$42,933.
5	6	$37,678.	$38,510.	$40,488.	$41,217.	$42,257.	$43,298.
6	7	$38,094.	$38,926.	$40,904.	$41,633.	$42,673.	$43,714.
7	8	$38,510.	$39,342.	$41,320.	$42,049.	$43,089.	$44,130.
8	9	$39,031.	$39,863.	$41,841.	$42,570.	$43,610.	$44,651.
9	10	$39,603.	$40,435.	$42,413.	$43,142.	$44,182.	$45,223.
10	11	$40,228.	$41,060.	$43,038.	$43,767.	$44,807.	$45,848.
11	12	$40,904.	$41,736.	$43,714.	$44,443.	$45,483.	$46,524.
12	13	$41,581.	$42,413.	$44,391.	$45,120.	$46,160.	$47,201.
13	14	$42,309.	$43,141.	$45,119.	$45,848.	$46,888.	$47,929.
14	15	$43,090.	$43,922.	$45,900.	$46,629.	$47,669.	$48,710.
15	16	$43,922.	$44,754.	$46,732.	$47,461.	$48,501.	$49,542.
16	17	$44,807.	$45,639.	$47,617.	$48,346.	$49,386.	$50,427.
17	18	$45,744.	$46,576.	$48,554.	$49,283.	$50,323.	$51,364.
18	19	$46,785.	$47,617.	$49,595.	$50,324.	$51,364.	$52,405.
19	20	$47,826.	$48,658.	$50,636.	$51,365.	$52,405.	$53,446.
20	21	$48,866.	$49,698.	$51,676.	$52,405.	$53,445.	$54,486.
21	22	$49,907.	$50,739.	$52,717.	$53,446.	$54,486.	$55,527.
22	23	$50,948.	$51,780.	$53,758.	$54,487.	$55,527.	$56,568.
23	24	$52,093.	$52,925.	$54,903.	$55,632.	$56,672.	$57,713.
24	25	$53,290.	$54,122.	$56,100.	$56,829.	$57,869.	$58,910.
25	26	$54,539.	$55,371.	$57,349.	$58,078.	$59,118.	$60,159.
Pasco Service Incentive (PSI): Effective with the 2003-2004 school year, those teachers who have earned at least one year's service credit in Pasco on step 26 will receive an annual increase of $1,000. Each subsequent year of service credit earned in Pasco on step 26 will earn an additional $1,000 annually. Teachers on PSI receive $1,000 plus any improvement applied to the top step in their salary lane. For 2005-2006, a teacher at the BA level in his/her first year of PSI will earn an annual salary of $55,539, a teacher at the BA level in his/her second year of PSI will earn an annual salary of $56,539, and a teacher at the BA level in his/her third year of PSI will earn an annual salary of $57,539.							
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
SALARY SCHEDULE
Page 51
SALARY SCHEDULE - SUMMER SCHOOL
Teachers employed for the year 1999-2000 Summer School will be paid at ninety percent (90%) of their regular hourly rate as determined by salary schedule 55 in the Instructional Master Contract in effect for the preceding school year.
Teachers employed for the year 2000-2001 Summer School will be paid at ninety-five percent (95%) of their regular hourly rate as determined by salary schedule 55 in the Instructional Master Contract in effect for the preceding school year.
Teachers employed for the year 2001-2002 Summer School will be paid at one hundred percent (100%) of their regular hourly rate as determined by salary schedule 55 in the Instructional Master Contract in effect for the preceding school year.
END OF SALARY SCHEDULE - SUMMER SCHOOL
ADDENDUM B
SUPPLEMENT SCHEDULE
1.	Any teacher assigned to a supplemented position shall receive full supplemented pay for each supplemented position to which he/she is assigned. To provide teachers an opportunity to apply for vacant supplemented positions shown in this addendum as Department/Grade Level Chairperson/Team Coordinator, principals will post such positions at the respective school when they become available and interested teachers may submit their names. These positions normally include department heads, grade chairpersons, team coordinators, learning community leaders, team leaders, etc.
2.	Supplementary pay shall be prorated over the period of time during which the activity or responsibility is scheduled to be performed unless otherwise stipulated.
3.	Class and/or club sponsors will not be held responsible for clerical tasks related to sponsorship(s) with the exception of voluntary activities such as car washes and bake sales.
4.	When assigning supplemented coaching positions, teachers within the bargaining unit or those newly hired teachers who will be in the bargaining unit who have the training or experience necessary to coach a specific sport shall be given priority over all other applicants for that specific sport.
5.	Whenever a vacancy in a supplemented coaching position occurs, the Board shall publicize the vacancy to the Union and provide for appropriate posting in the schools. Each coaching vacancy advertisement shall specify the time of day that the applicant must be available in order to coach the sport.
6.	Teacher Mentor Program
The Teacher Mentor Program will provide support services to all new teachers to the district. The program shall have “Basic Teacher Mentors” who serve all instructional staff other than ESE teachers and “ESE Teacher Mentors” who serve all ESE teachers. In addition to serving new ESE teachers to the district, the ESE Teacher Mentors shall serve the following:
a)	Teachers who are teaching ESE for the first time and who have previously taught in another program in the district;
b)	ESE teachers who are out-of-field for the first two (2) years; and,
c)	Long-Term Substitute Teachers who are assigned ESE positions.
ESE teachers, who are not new ESE teachers to the district, will be served only if the district receives sufficient grant funding to support the service. For the purpose of contract clarity, “Basic Teacher Mentor” and “ESE Teacher Mentor” will be referred to as Teacher Mentor. No Basic Teacher Mentor shall be assigned more than two (2) beginning teachers and no ESE Teacher Mentor shall be assigned more than four (4) eligible ESE teachers. The second, third, and fourth mentor teacher assignments must be by mutual agreement between the Teacher Mentor, the teacher served, and the administration.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
SALARY SCHEDULE - SUMMER SCHOOL
Page 52
The responsibility of the Teacher Mentor will be construed to begin on the first date of employment for the teacher being served.
Payment
Each school year the Teacher Mentor will receive the amount specified in the Academic Supplement Schedule for each teacher assigned. The Teacher Mentor Program supplement will be prorated over the time period during which the responsibility is scheduled, not to exceed more than 196 days in any one school year. In a case where a teacher being served resigns before completing the program, the Teacher Mentor supplement will be terminated effective the last day of employment for the teacher being served.
7.	Vocational Student Organizations (VSOs) - High School
Job Preparatory Vocational Training will receive an annual supplement for sponsoring co curricular organizations providing:
a)	An active VSO is established that is identified in the curriculum frameworks for the content areas (active is defined as meeting at least monthly after school hours).
b)	The VSO meets minimum requirements for membership numbers as established by the state organization.
c)	Documentation is provided for student participation in applicable district, regional, state, and/or national competitions.
d)	Documentation is provided for participation in student leadership development workshops/activities.
e)	Sponsors are expected to attend all competitions.
Middle School VSOs are encouraged but not required and teachers are not eligible for supplements.
Agriculture teacher supplements already specify VSO participation so they will not receive an additional supplement.
If minimum numbers of students do not join the VSOs, it is understood that the VSO requirement in the curriculum frameworks cannot be met.
SUPPLEMENT SCHEDULE
ACADEMIC
Band Director:
Middle School	$2,427.00
High School	3,310.00
*Behavior Specialist	1,493.00
Choral Director	1,048.00
Department/Grade Level Chairperson/Team Coordinator	970.00
Flag Corps Sponsor	1,048.00
*Guidance Counselor	1,493.00
High School Class Sponsor	870.00
*High School Literacy Specialist	1,493.00
High School Newspaper Sponsor	870.00
High School Play Director	1,048.00
*Instructional Trainer/Coach	1,493.00
*Middle School Reading Resource Specialist	1,493.00
Teacher Assistance Team (Activated)	1,765.00
*Elementary Reading Specialist	1,493.00
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
SUPPLEMENT SCHEDULE
Page 53
*School Psychologist	3,732.00
*School Social Worker	1,493.00
Senior Projects Coordinator	970.00
*Speech/Language Pathologist (BA-NON CERT)	1,493.00
*Speech/Language Pathologist (MA-CERT)	2,920.00
Speech/Language Pathologist Mentor	2,240.00
*Pasco FDLRS Resource Teacher	1,493.00
*Pasco FDLRS Child Find Resource Teacher	1,493.00
Teacher Mentor	379.00
Teacher of Profoundly Mentally Handicapped	1,344.00
*Therapeutic Preschool Family Specialist	1,493.00
Vocational Agriculture Teacher	2,218.00
Vocational Coordinator	1,119.00
Vocational Student Organization (High School):
Sponsorship (Requires District/State Competition)	1,167.00
Participation in state competition	276.00
Participation in national competition	276.00
Yearbook Sponsor:
Middle School	833.00
High School	999.00
Special Olympics (Fall)	276.00
Special Olympics (Spring)	276.00
*Identifies Required Supplements
END OF ACADEMIC SUPPLEMENT SCHEDULE
HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETIC SUPPLEMENTS
Athletic Director	$4,585.00
Head Football (Fall)	2,952.00
Head Football (Spring)	1,310.00
Assistant Football (Fall)	1,442.00
Assistant Football (Spring)	642.00
Basketball	2,886.00
Assistant Basketball	1,573.00
Baseball/Softball	2,273.00
Assistant Baseball/Softball	1,487.00
Track	2,273.00
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract	Page 54
HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETIC SUPPLEMENTS
Assistant Track	1,399.00
Wrestling	1,922.00
Assistant Wrestling	1,487.00
Cross Country	1,661.00
Golf	1,399.00
Soccer	1,922.00
Assistant Soccer	1,051.00
Swimming	1,224.00
Assistant Swimming	875.00
Tennis	1,399.00
Volleyball	1,922.00
Assistant Volleyball	1,051.00
Weightlifting	875.00
Business Manager	1,922.00
Cheerleader Coach	1,922.00
Assistant Cheerleader Coach	1,701.00
END OF HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETIC SUPPLEMENT SCHEDULE
MIDDLE SCHOOL ATHLETIC SUPPLEMENTS
Athletic Director	$1,907.00
Football	1,644.00
Assistant Football	1,104.00
Basketball	1,382.00
Soccer	1,051.00
Track	1,051.00
Assistant Track	875.00
Volleyball	1,051.00
Business Manager	875.00
Cheerleader Coach	1,382.00
END OF MIDDLE SCHOOL ATHLETIC SUPPLEMENT SCHEDULE
END OF ADDENDUM B
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MIDDLE SCHOOL ATHLETIC SUPPLEMENTS
Page 55
ADDENDUM C
Instructional Bargaining Unit - Description
Accelerated Literacy Learning Teacher Audiologist/Itin. Teacher of the Deaf/Hard of Hearing
*Behavior Specialist
Career Specialist
Developmental Teacher - Alt. School
*Elementary Reading Specialist
ESE Staffing and Compliance Teacher
ESOL Teacher Resource Specialist
Florida First Start Resource Teacher
Grant Resource Teacher (Grant Funded)
Grant Resource Teacher for Inclusion
Grant Resource Teacher for Transition
*Guidance Counselor
*High School Literacy Specialist
Homebound Teacher
Instructional Technology Specialist
*Instructional Trainer/Coach
Job Placement/Transition Specialist
Learning Specialist
Mainstream Consultation Teacher
*Middle School Reading Resource Specialist
Migrant Advocate
Parent Involvement Educator
*Pasco FDLRS Resource Teacher
*Pasco FDLRS Child Find Resource Teacher
Pre-School Resource Teacher - ESE
Pre-School Resource Teacher - Prekindergarten
*Prevention/Intervention Counselor
Reading Coach
Resource Teacher
School Media Specialist
* Identifies Supplemented Positions
School Nurse
*	School Psychologist
*	School Social Worker
School to Career/Tech Prep Articulation Coordinator
Secondary Fine Arts Resource Teacher
Special Populations Coordinator
*	Speech Language Pathologist
Teacher of Adaptive Physical Education
Teacher of Autistic
Teacher of Basic Education - Academic Program
Teacher of Basic Education - Summer Academic Program
Teacher of Career and Technical Education
Teacher of Deaf/Hard of Hearing
Teacher of Emotionally Handicapped
Teacher of ESOL - Resource
Teacher of Gifted
Teacher-Headstart Off-Campus
Teacher of Mentally Handicapped
Teacher of Online Courses
Teacher of Physically Impaired
Teacher of Prekindergarten (Certified)
Teacher of Profoundly Mentally Handicapped
Teacher of Science/Environmental Education
Teacher of Severely Emotionally Handicapped
Teacher of Specific Learning Disabilities
Teacher of Varying Exceptionality
Teacher of Visually Impaired
Teacher, Therapeutic Preschool
*	Therapeutic Preschool Family Specialist Work Evaluator
END OF ADDENDUM C
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
Instructional Bargaining Unit - Description
Page 56
ADDENDUM D
FEDERAL DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM FOR HOLDERS OF FLORIDA
CLASS A OR B COMMERCIAL DRIVERS LICENSES
The Board and Union recognize that employees who are required to hold a Class A or Class B Commercial Driver License (CDL) as a condition of employment (hereinafter referred to as covered employees) must comply with the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991 (OTETA), regulations of the Federal Highway Administration contained in 49 CFR Parts 40 and 382, et. al. and Section 1012.45, Florida Statutes.
Notification
The Board shall provide all covered employees with educational materials that explain the requirements of the Program and the Board’s policies with respect to meeting these requirements. Each employee who has received a copy of these materials shall be required to sign a statement certifying that he/she has received a copy of these materials.
Testing
Testing of covered employees shall be done in accordance with applicable Federal and State law. The employee shall be paid his/her regular hourly rate for the time involved for such testing beyond the employee’s normal working hours unless such testing results in an employee working beyond forty (40) hours that week. In such cases, the employee shall be compensated at 1-1/2 times his/her hourly rate. Refusal to report for testing when notified to do so shall be considered a positive test.
Positive Test Results for Alcohol or Prohibited Substances
If a covered employee tests .02 or .039 for breath alcohol, he/she shall be removed from performing the duties of his/her safety-sensitive position for twenty-four (24) hours. If the employee has accrued sick or vacation leave, he/she shall be entitled to use such leave during this period. A conference may be held with the employee in an attempt to determine why he/she tested .02 to .039 so as to prevent a recurrence.
If an employee tests .04 or higher for breath alcohol or tests positive for any prohibited substance, he/she shall be removed from performing the duties of his/her safety-sensitive position, and he/she shall be referred to a substance abuse professional. In addition, there will be other employment consequences which may include termination. In the event that the primary specimen confirms the presence of prohibited substances, and the employee believes there has been an error in the analysis, he/she may request that the split specimen be tested. The cost of this second analysis shall be the responsibility of the employee. However, should this analysis produce a negative result, the Board shall reimburse the employee for the cost.
Reasonable Suspicion
When a supervisor believes that a covered employee is in violation of OTETA regulations, he/she shall confer with the district OTETA administrator or designee who shall decide whether to proceed further. If the OTETA administrator or designee meets with the employee for the purpose of notifying him/her that reasonable suspicion testing will be required, he/she shall do so in conjunction with a trained supervisor. A Union representative shall be permitted to attend the meeting with the right to ask questions for the purpose of clarification. Because time is important when giving an alcohol test, the meeting will not be delayed if the Union representative is unable to be present at the specified time for the meeting to begin. During the meeting, the OTETA administrator will cite the indicators which led to the reasonable suspicion, and the employee shall be given an opportunity to give an explanation if he/she desires.
Confidentiality
Confidentiality required by OTETA regulations will be observed, and no voluntary report of a test required by these regulations shall be made to the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles.
END OF ADDENDUM D
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ADDENDUM D
Page 57
ADDENDUM E
Performance Based Teacher Compensation Plan
The Performance Based Teacher Compensation Plan for the District School Board of Pasco County is designed to be one that encourages the professional development of teachers. When teachers achieve a high level of performance they will be rewarded under the guidelines of the compensation plan.
Effective July 1, 2002 the plan will include the following components:
Satisfactory Evaluation
Requires all competency areas of the Assessment System to be rated satisfactory.
Unsatisfactory Evaluation
One or more of the competency areas on the Assessment System marked unsatisfactory.
Professional Base Pay
Calculated from the Bachelor lanes on Salary Schedule 55 and Salary Schedule 55A.
Knowledge Pay
Calculated from salary lanes that compensate teacher’s higher education achieved as illustrated on Salary Schedule 55 and Salary Schedule 55A.
National Board of Professional Teaching Standards
Certification received by the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards. The Board will contribute the amount which the teacher encumbers as part of the application fee including a $65.00 processing fee when the teacher receives certification.
Integral Job Responsibility Pay
Integral job responsibility pay is compensation received for professional duties as described in specific job assignment. Examples include but are not limited to Band Director, Behavior Specialist, ESE Counseling/Parent Education Specialist, Guidance Counselor, Middle School Reading Resource Specialist, Elementary Reading Specialist, School Psychologist, School Social Worker, Speech/Language Pathologist, Prevention/Intervention Counselor, Therapeutic Preschool Family Specialist, and Vocational Agriculture Teacher.
Supplement Pay
Supplement pay is compensation received for additional responsibilities over and above those described in specific job assignment.
Experience Pay
Compensation awarded to teachers based upon years of service as illustrated by Salary Schedule 55 and 55A.
Procedure for Calculation of Total Salary Based Upon Performance
When a teacher receives a satisfactory evaluation, the teacher will be eligible to receive all of the following:
Professional Base Pay;
Knowledge Pay;
Experience Pay Increase; and
Integral Job Responsibility Pay.
The teacher may work toward achieving Supplement Pay, “Outstanding”- Teacher Performance Rating as specified in the DSBPC Pay for Performance Procedures Manual, and Certification by the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards, which together with all of the above will constitute total salary.
If a teacher receives an unsatisfactory evaluation at the end of the school year, the teacher will be eligible for the following:
Professional Base Pay;
Knowledge Pay; and
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
ADDENDUM E
Page 58
Integral Job Responsibility Pay.
However, the teacher will not receive Experience Pay Increase, nor be eligible to seek Certification by the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards, “Outstanding”- Teacher Performance Rating, or receive Supplement Pay until he/she earns a satisfactory evaluation.
When a satisfactory evaluation is earned, the teacher will be eligible to seek all component incentives as defined by the plan. The Experience Pay Increase component will be provided retroactive to July 1.
Committees shall be formed to establish or modify criteria for any current or proposed component to be a part of the Performance Based Teacher Compensation Plan. The President of USEP and the Superintendent or their designees shall co-chair such committees and shall mutually agree to the committees’ membership. The compensation for such component(s) shall be negotiated by the Board and USEP.
PERFORMANCE BASED TEACHER COMPENSATION PLAN FLOW CHART
Total Salary
END OF ADDENDUM E
ADDENDUM F
CONTRACT WAIVER REQUEST
Contract Waiver Request
1.	In an effort to provide an educational environment that enhances student learning, schools may explore new educational programs, instructional strategies, organizational strategies, organizational patterns, and/or other learning-related functions. Such endeavors may require some part of the Instructional Master Contract language to be waived.
2.	A contract waiver must be approved whenever a program is being proposed that would alter any provisions of the Instructional Master Contract. However, the Board and Union will consider a waiver for only the following sections in Article VII:
a)	Section L - School Day,
b)	Section N - Non-Teaching Duties,
c)	Section S - Teaching Assignments and Duties, or
d)	Section V - Miscellaneous.
3)	Should a school pursue such a waiver, the procedures as stipulated below shall be followed.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
PERFORMANCE BASED TEACHER COMPENSATION PLAN FLOW CHART
Page 59
Notification Requirements
a) As soon as possible but no later than February 1, the principal must submit the Notification Form (Appendix C) to the USEP President, the Director of Employee Relations, and the faculty that a study is being undertaken of a program or activity that, if implemented, may alter language in the Instructional Master Contract as specified in paragraph two (2) above.
Approval Process
1)	The Principal, Director of Employee Relations, and the President of USEP shall mutually determine and agree on the teachers whose contractual rights will be affected by the proposed contract waiver and, therefore, eligible to vote.
2)	A secret ballot will be held under the supervision of the principal of the school and the Director of Employee Relations/designee, and President of USEP/designee. The principal, President of USEP and Director of Employee Relations shall agree to the date, time, method of the vote, and procedures for absentee ballots. The affected teachers in the bargaining unit, the President of USEP, and the Director of Employee Relations will be given three (3) days' advance notice of the voting date. A ballot must be given to each teacher eligible to vote and each teacher shall be given the opportunity to cast such ballot. Approval by seventy-five percent (75%) of the teachers eligible to vote is required. A valid vote shall not be rescinded.
3)	The final proposal of the program/project shall be presented to all bargaining unit members at the school and fully explained by the principal. The teachers in the bargaining unit, the President of USEP, and the Director of Employee Relations will be given five (5) days' notice of such meeting. At least five (5) days prior to the explanatory meeting, the principal shall provide teachers affected by the proposed contract language to be waived, a written copy of the proposed plan which describes the proposed modifications to terms and conditions of employment for those teachers affected.
4)	The Principal shall submit the Waiver Request Approval Form (Appendix D) to the Director of Employee Relations and the President of USEP if seventy-five percent (75%) of the ballots in two (2) above are in favor of the waiver.
5)	Any challenge of the voting process, procedure, or results will be referred to the President of USEP and the Director of Employee Relations for a resolution.
6)	A “No” vote will require waiting until the next school year before starting the waiver process again.
7)	Upon approval by the USEP President and the Director of the Department of Employee Relations, contract waivers may be granted for up to one (1) year and shall be non-precedent setting.
4.	To renew a Contract Waiver, the school must follow the steps in number three (3) the Notification Process and Approval Process above.
5.	The Waiver Request must be submitted to the Director of the Department of Employee Relations and the President of USEP before May 1.
6.	If specified in the Waiver Request, an evaluation of the program shall be conducted to continue the waiver for its duration.
7.	For vacancies that will be in effect during the Contract Waiver period, notification and explanation of a Contract Waiver that is in effect must be included in all job postings and interviews.
8.	No programs shall exist which are not in compliance with contract language or which have not been approved by this process.
END OF ADDENDUM F
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
CONTRACT WAIVER REQUEST
Page 60
2005-2006 Economic Proposal
1.	Salaries
a)	Salary Schedules 55 and 55A
1)	Step Increases: The Board shall provide $2,419,784 to fund employee step advancements as shown on current (2004-2005) Salary Schedules 55 and 55A.
2)	The Board shall provide an additional $7,555,952 to improve Salary Schedules 55 and 55A.
b)	Supplement Schedule Improvement (Addendum B)
1)	The Board shall provide $125,000 to improve academic and athletic supplements and to establish four (4) High School Class Sponsor supplements of $829 (plus any increase in supplements paying the same in 2004-2005) for each of the district’s nine (9) high schools.
2.	Other Economic Issues:
a)	The Board will provide $700 to pay the added processing fee to the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards as indicated in Addendum E.
b)	The Board will provide $55,725 for refingerprinting to take place in 2005-2006.
c)	The Board will increase the after-hour staff development activities hourly rate to $14.00 from $13.25, effective August 29, 2005.
d)	The Board will increase the mileage rate to the state agency rate of $.38 per mile effective with mileage incurred following final contract ratification.
The payments and increases shown above will be provided retroactive to July 1, 2005, for current bargaining unit members. However, such increases will not be provided to bargaining unit members who were employed on and/or after July 1, 2005, but left the system prior to ratification.
2.	Fringe Benefits
The Board agrees to contribute $4,711.82 (an increase of $225.40) per eligible employee toward the cost of the benefits package for the 2006 insurance plan year. Should there be a reduction in the 2006 plan year health insurance renewal rate, the Board will continue to fund the plan at this level and any savings will be applied to pay any insurance plan deficits for the 2005 plan year. Any remaining savings will be applied to the insurance cost for the 2007 plan year or to salaries for 2006-2007. In addition, the alternate “opt-out” program shall be provided to bargaining unit members with existing coverage who do not choose one of the Board-approved health plans. The amount of this “opt-out” will be $1,008.
End of Economic Proposal
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
2005-2006 Economic Proposal
Page 61
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Additional Days for Off-Site Prekindergarten Programs
The district provides full-day/full-year services for students in the district’s prekindergarten programs that are housed at sites that are not located at a school. In order to provide these additional services to students in such programs, periods of additional days must be provided for teachers beyond their regular contracts. Therefore, beginning with the 2003-2004 school year, teachers assigned to such programs will have the following additional rights and benefits:
1.	The right of first refusal of any and all additional days at the center to which the teacher is assigned. Any teacher choosing not to accept additional days shall not be penalized.
2.	The right to earn up to two (2) additional sick leave days per year at the rate of one (1) day for each twenty (20) additional days worked if such periods of additional days are consecutive with the teacher’s regular calendar.
3.	The right to utilize accumulated sick leave during periods of additional days.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Alternative to Scheduling - Mitchell High School
(Effective through 2005-2006)
In support of legislative intent and directives, the Union and district agree to support a scheduling alternative pilot program to enhance student performance. The pilot program will also enhance the continuity of student learning, curricula development, and extended educational student opportunities.
This pilot program will continue to provide at least the same amount of planning time as currently specified in the Instructional Master Contract, Article VII, Section S-13; however, the planning time will be calculated on a weekly basis. All other parts of the Instructional Master Contract language will remain in effect.
The pilot program will be effective through the 2005-2006 school year. During the pilot program, the district and the Union will jointly conduct periodic reviews to identify opportunities to enhance the program. Revisions may be made to improve the effectiveness of the program. Should such revisions alter the working conditions as stated in paragraph two (2) above, such revisions will require mutual agreement by the district and the Union.
An Alternative Scheduling Committee will exist as the vehicle for all teachers to address concerns or make recommendations regarding the effectiveness of the alternative schedule. Teachers will be encouraged to participate as members of the committee. The membership of the committee should be representative of the teaching staff. Before electing members to the committee, the principal and faculty will determine the size of the committee. At a faculty meeting, the principal will ask for teacher volunteers and/or nominations for the committee. If the number of volunteers and/or nominees exceeds the number of committee seats, an election will be held to determine which teachers fill the positions. The members of the committee will elect a chairperson. Each year, the Alternative Scheduling Committee will survey the teachers to identify ways to enhance the effectiveness of the alternative schedule.
Any teacher who does not want to continue in his/her current school assignment at Mitchell High School for the 2003-2004 school year must give written notice to the principal of Mitchell High School no later than May 2, 2003. Such teacher will be given priority for transfer to a position for which he/she is certified and/or his/her current assignment before all other like positions are filled from within or outside the district. All teachers at Mitchell High School will be provided a copy of this Memorandum of Understanding by April 24, 2003.
Notification of the pilot program in effect will be included in all job postings and an explanation of the program will be provided at the interviews during the duration of the pilot program.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Page 62
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Alternative to Scheduling - Mitchell High School
(Effective through 2008-2009)
In support of legislative intent and directives, the Union and district agree to support a scheduling alternative pilot program to enhance student performance. The pilot program will also enhance the continuity of student learning, curricula development, and extended educational student opportunities.
This pilot program will continue to provide at least the same amount of planning time as currently specified in the Instructional Master Contract, Article VII, Section S-13; however, the planning time will be calculated on a weekly basis. All other parts of the Instructional Master Contract language will remain in effect.
The pilot program will be effective through the 2008-2009 school year. During the pilot program, the district and the Union will jointly conduct periodic reviews to identify opportunities to enhance the program. Revisions may be made to improve the effectiveness of the program. Should such revisions alter the working conditions as stated in paragraph two (2) above, such revisions will require mutual agreement by the district and the Union.
An Alternative Scheduling Committee will exist as the vehicle for all teachers to address concerns or make recommendations regarding the effectiveness of the alternative schedule. Teachers will be encouraged to participate as members of the committee. The membership of the committee should be representative of the teaching staff. Before electing members to the committee, the principal and faculty will determine the size of the committee. At a faculty meeting, the principal will ask for teacher volunteers and/or nominations for the committee. If the number of volunteers and/or nominees exceeds the number of committee seats, an election will be held to determine which teachers fill the positions. The members of the committee will elect a chairperson. Each year, the Alternative Scheduling Committee will survey the teachers to identify ways to enhance the effectiveness of the alternative schedule.
Any teacher who does not want to continue in his/her current school assignment at Mitchell High School for the 2006-2007 school year must give written notice to the principal of Mitchell High School no later than March 10, 2006. Such teacher will be given priority for transfer to a position for which he/she is certified and/or his/her current assignment before all other like positions are filled from within or outside the district.
Notification of the pilot program in effect will be included in all job postings and an explanation of the program will be provided at the interviews during the duration of the pilot program.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Alternative to Scheduling - Seven Springs Middle School
(Effective through 2005-2006)
In support of legislative intent and directives, the Union and district agree to support a scheduling alternative pilot program to enhance student performance. The pilot program will also enhance the continuity of student learning, curricula development, and extended educational student opportunities.
This pilot program will continue to provide at least the same amount of planning time as currently specified in the Instructional Master Contract, Article VII, Section S-13; however, the planning time will be calculated on a weekly basis. All other parts of the Instructional Master Contract language will remain in effect.
The pilot program will be effective through the 2005-2006 school year. During the pilot program, the district and the Union will jointly conduct periodic reviews to identify opportunities to enhance the program. Revisions may be made to improve the effectiveness of the program. Should such revisions alter the working conditions as stated in paragraph two (2) above, such revisions will require mutual agreement by the district and the Union.
An Alternative Scheduling Committee will exist as the vehicle for all teachers to address concerns or make recommendations regarding the effectiveness of the alternative schedule. Teachers will be encouraged to participate as members of the committee. The membership of the committee should be representative of the teaching staff. Before electing members to the committee, the principal and faculty will determine the size of the committee. At a faculty meeting, the principal will ask for teacher volunteers and/or nominations for the committee. If the number of
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Page 63
volunteers and/or nominees exceeds the number of committee seats, an election will be held to determine which teachers fill the positions. The members of the committee will elect a chairperson. Each year, the Alternative Scheduling Committee will survey the teachers to identify ways to enhance the effectiveness of the alternative schedule.
At Seven Springs Middle School, any teacher who does not want to continue in his/her current school assignment for the 2003-2004 school year must give written notice to the principal of Seven Springs Middle School no later than May 2, 2003. Such teacher will be given priority for transfer to a position for which he/she is certified and/or his/her current assignment before all other like positions are filled from within or outside the district. All teachers at Seven Springs Middle School will be provided a copy of this Memorandum of Understanding by April 24, 2003.
Notification of the pilot program in effect will be included in all job postings and an explanation of the program will be provided at the interviews during the duration of the pilot program.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Alternative to Scheduling - Seven Springs Middle School
(Effective through 2008-2009)
In support of legislative intent and directives, the Union and district agree to support a scheduling alternative pilot program to enhance student performance. The pilot program will also enhance the continuity of student learning, curricula development, and extended educational student opportunities.
This pilot program will continue to provide at least the same amount of planning time as currently specified in the Instructional Master Contract, Article VII, Section S-13; however, the planning time will be calculated on a weekly basis. All other parts of the Instructional Master Contract language will remain in effect.
The pilot program will be effective through the 2008-2009 school year. During the pilot program, the district and the Union will jointly conduct periodic reviews to identify opportunities to enhance the program. Revisions may be made to improve the effectiveness of the program. Should such revisions alter the working conditions as stated in paragraph two (2) above, such revisions will require mutual agreement by the district and the Union.
An Alternative Scheduling Committee will exist as the vehicle for all teachers to address concerns or make recommendations regarding the effectiveness of the alternative schedule. Teachers will be encouraged to participate as members of the committee. The membership of the committee should be representative of the teaching staff. Before electing members to the committee, the principal and faculty will determine the size of the committee. At a faculty meeting, the principal will ask for teacher volunteers and/or nominations for the committee. If the number of volunteers and/or nominees exceeds the number of committee seats, an election will be held to determine which teachers fill the positions. The members of the committee will elect a chairperson. Each year, the Alternative Scheduling Committee will survey the teachers to identify ways to enhance the effectiveness of the alternative schedule.
At Seven Springs Middle School, any teacher who does not want to continue in his/her current school assignment for the 2006-2007 school year must give written notice to the principal of Seven Springs Middle School no later than March 10, 2006. Such teacher will be given priority for transfer to a position for which he/she is certified and/or his/her current assignment before all other like positions are filled from within or outside the district..
Notification of the pilot program in effect will be included in all job postings and an explanation of the program will be provided at the interviews during the duration of the pilot program.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Page 64
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Compensation for ROTC Instructors
The United School Employees of Pasco and the Board recognize the difficult and cumbersome process that is in place to determine the appropriate salary for ROTC Instructors. The respective branch of the Armed Forces relevant to each instructor periodically sets minimum salary ranges based on each instructor’s retirement benefit. Recognizing the contribution of these instructors to their students and to the school community, USEP and the Board agree to continue negotiations regarding a salary schedule appropriate for these ROTC Instructors. Any schedule developed will be subject to ratification.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTADNING
ESE/Inclusion Model Task Force
The Board and Union agree to focus on improving the current inclusionary practices in our schools. To this end, a joint district-union task force will be established to seek improvement in these various models. Areas to be addressed will include, but not be limited to, the ratio of ESE/Basic Ed students, initial training for teachers involved (both Basic Ed and ESE), consultation services, resource pull-out and overall ongoing training and support services required to ensure the best educational setting for teachers and students.
All agreed upon recommendations will be presented to the Superintendent and the President of USEP no later than March 1, 2006.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Extended School Year (ESY)
The Board and Union agree to meet during the 2005-2006 school year to review the applicable guidelines and memorandum of understanding for extended school year and other similar programs and make necessary adjustments.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING Instructional Extended School Year Program Summer of 2005
In light of the current budget constraints, USEP and DSBPC recognize that the previous traditional summer school program cannot be funded. Therefore, the following parameters will govern the working conditions of employees who are employed to work in a summer program.
PROGRAM DATES: (Student Attendance) June 6, 2005 - June 17, 2005 (10 day program)
June 6, 2005 - June 30, 2005 (18 day prorgam)
June 6, 2005 - July 14, 2005 (26 day program)
Instructional and Noninstructional Employees
Filling positions:
•	Assignment to this program is voluntary.
•	Each school principal will notify the staff of the program dates by May 9, 2005.
•	Each employee having an interest in working in the program will submit his/her name to the school principal by May 13, 2005.
•	Tentative job openings will be announced by the last student day.
•	When it is judged that professional qualifications and ability are substantially equal among applicants for the program to be offered, district seniority shall prevail.
•	When filling positions, employees within the bargaining unit shall be given priority over other applicants.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Page 65
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Instructional Extended School Year Program Summer of 2005 (Continued)
• The previous procedure to select transportation employees for the summer school assignment will continue to be used.
Work Schedule:
TEACHERS:
10 day program (Elementary, some ESE, & Middle School) Teacher Work Schedules
•	1 day of pre/post planning at 7.5 hours - June 3, 2005 (hours are flexible)
•	10 days at 4.0 hours per day (3.5 hours of student instruction and .5 hour of planning)
Total Days: 11	Total Hours: 47.5
18 day program (Some ESE) Teacher Work Schedules
•	1 day pre/post planing at 7.5 hours - June 3, 2005 (hours are flexible)
•	18 days at 4.0 hours per day (3.5 hours of student instruction and .5 hour of planning)
Total Days: 19	Total Hours: 79.5
26 day program (Elementary & some ESE) Teacher Work Schedules
•	1 day of pre/post planning at 7.5 hours - June 3, 2005 (hours are flexible)
•	26 days at 4.0 hours per day (3.5 hours of student instruction and .5 hour of planning)
•	Each teacher and guidance counselor working in the 26 day program will work an additional hour each week to meet with other staff for a review of student data. Each school will designate the time to meet.
Total Days: 27	Total Hours 117.5
High School Teacher Work Schedules
a.	Required Course (1 credit):
Note: Students must attend a full day (two single sessions) session to earn a credit in a required course. Therefore, teachers who teach these courses will need to work a full day session.
•	1 day of pre/post planning at 7.5 hours - June 3, 2005 (hours are flexible)
•	10 days at 8.5 hours per day (7 hours of student instruction, 1 hour of planning and .5 hour for lunch)
Total Days: 11	Total Hours: 92.5
b.	Elective Course (.5 credit) or ESE (noncredit) Course
•	1 day of pre/post planning at 7.5 hours - June 3, 2005 (hours are flexible)
•	10 days at 4.0 hours per day (3.5 hours of student instruction and .5 hour of planning)
Total Days: 11	Total Hours: 47.5
ESE Paraprofessionals/Instructional Assistants:
•	1 day of planning at 7.5 hours - June 3, 2005 (hours are flexible)
•	10 days at 4.0 hours per day
Total Days: 11	Total Hours: 47.5
Pay Rate:
All employees will be paid at their regular hourly rate based upon the 2004-2005 salary schedule.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract	Page 66
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Pay Dates:
•	Employees working the 10 day program will receive total compensation for hours worked on June 17, 2005. Payroll will be projected and should an employee be absent on or after June 13, 2005, the employee will receive his/her total compensation on July 8, 2005.
•	Employees working the 18 day program will receive checks on June 17 (6 days) and June 30 (13 days). Payroll for the final check will be projected and should an employee be absent on or after June 27, 2005, the employee will receive his/her final check on July 21, 2005.
•	Employees working the 26 day program will receive checks on June 17 (6 days), June 30 (9 days), and July 14 (12 days), 2005. Payroll for the final check will be projected and should an employee be absent on or after July 11, 2005, the employee will receive his/her final check on August 5, 2005.
Sick Leave Accrual:
Employees who work the 26 or 18 day program and high school teachers who work a full day (2 single sessions) will earn .5 day sick leave.
Absences:
•	All 10 day program employees’ absences will be without pay. These employees are not eligle to use previously earned sick leave for pay purposes.
•	26 and 18 day program employees may use sick leave.
Substitutes:
A regular employee who substitutes in this program will be paid his/her regular hourly rate.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Floating Teacher Assignments
The district’s rate of student population growth and mandated class size reduction has the effect of increasing the number of teachers who must use more than one (1) classroom to conduct lessons during the day (floating). The Board and Union agree to continue the work of the Floating Teachers Assignment Task Force during the 2005-2006 school year to address issues related to this matter. The membership of this task force will be mutually agreed upon by USEP and the Board.
The task force will report its findings and make any recommendations to the Superintendent by December 1, 2005.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Florida’s K-12 Comprehensive Research-Based Reading Plan and Professional Development Protocol Standards
For the 2005-2006 school year, all districts were required to submit a plan as part of the proviso language which met the Florida Department of Education criteria in order to be eligible for reading and staff development categorical funding. The District School Board of Pasco County’s designated amount was approximately $2 million.
In response to the state requirements of the K-12 Comprehensive Research-Based Reading Plan and Florida’s Professional Development Protocol Standards, the Board and the Union have agreed to the following in order to meet state mandates.
Part of the state criteria requires all teachers to meet weekly in teams comprised of teachers from core subject areas, reading teachers, and various other support personnel. These problem-solving teams will work on the following, but are not limited to:
examining and utilizing data to identify student needs,
developing materials, lessons, and strategies to improve student reading performance,
planning for classroom activities that support reading improvement,
conducting reading-related research,
implementing delivery models,
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Page 67
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Florida’s K-12 Comprehensive Research-Based Reading Plan and Professional Development Protocol Standards (Continued)
obtaining/providing peer coaching, reviewing implementation strategies and evaluating impact on student achievement, and conducting follow-up activities.
Weekly meetings will be designed for all teachers to meet the needs of their students. Weekly meetings may vary in length but should not be required to exceed 40 minutes. Teams will have the flexibility to schedule their meetings during planning time within the student day or scheduled work time before or after the student day, contingent upon principal approval. With the consent of the principal, teams may alter the length of meetings or restructure their work schedules to accommodate meeting times or to provide additional staff development opportunities. Teachers will continue to receive two uninterrupted fifty-minute blocks to plan for their specific classroom activities in accordance with Article VII, Section S-15 of the Instructional Master Contract. At the elementary school level, these fifty-minute blocks will be implemented before or after the student day. Additionally, the planning day at the end of each quarter will be protected from required staff development.
The Board and Union understand that incorporating staff development and required weekly meetings into the teachers’ regular work week impacts the amount of time teachers have to conduct other activities related to their teaching assignments; therefore, principals shall seek to further minimize non-teaching assignments, including but not limited to committees, faculty meetings, and duties.
In order to meet the K-12 Reading Plan mandate, teachers will be required to submit one goal for their Professional Development Plans (PDP) that addresses improving student reading. Teachers will be provided the opportunity to earn approved staff development points as part of the weekly meetings and the implementation of the K-12 Reading Plan. In accordance with Florida’s Professional Development Protocol Standards, teachers must successfully complete all staff development requirements, including reasonable follow-up activities and documentation to be awarded staff development points.
In order to recognize the time commitment required of teachers within their regular work schedule to participate in weekly meetings and conduct follow-up requirements of the K-12 Reading Plan and Florida’s Professional Development Protocol Standards, the Board and Union agree to eliminate the requirement to attend the two scheduled staff development days. Teachers will work a 196-day contract with no corresponding diminishment in pay, and teachers at the alternative schools will work a 204-day contract with no corresponding diminishment in pay. Negotiated salary increases for the 2005-2006 school year will build upon the salaries reflected in the 20042005 teacher salary schedules.
For the 2005-2006 school year, stipends may be provided to teachers who voluntarily attend staff development on the two scheduled staff development days if funds are available. Some previously scheduled staff development may still be offered on a voluntary basis with no stipend attached. The Board remains committed to providing teachers with opportunities to participate in relevant high-quality staff development, will continue to offer staff development throughout the calendar year, and will explore the feasibility of scheduling at least two non-work days for teachers within the student calendar for teachers to attend voluntary staff development.
The Board and Union recognize that the most effective solutions are reached with all affected parties involved; therefore, during the 2005-2006 contract negotiations, the Board and Union utilized an interest-based process to openly identify and discuss issues surrounding staff development and agreed that during the 2005-2006 school year, the Professional Staff Development Sub-Committee of the District HRTD Committee will implement an interestbased process to develop implementation standards for this Memorandum of Understanding, explore potential solutions to staff-development related issues raised during negotiations, review the district’s professional development programs, and identify potential impacts of various State and Federal protocols/regulations and required programs. As part of this committee, a workgroup will be established to identify, evaluate, and recommend programs to address staff development needs of special area and support teachers. Recommendations for any applicable modifications shall be submitted to the Superintendent and Union prior to May 1, 2006. The membership of the sub-committee will be mutually determined by the Director of Staff Development and the President of the Union.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Page 68
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANIDNG
Indoor Air/Environmental Quality Issues
The Board and Union agree to continue the work of the Indoor Air Quality Committee in an effort to develop and propose school-based and district-level procedures and standards to address indoor air quality and environmental quality issues. The committee will consider various resources which include, but are not limited to, the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The membership of this committee will be determined by the President of USEP and the Superintendent.
Any committee recommendations will be made to the Superintendent.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Legislation by the State and Federal Legislature
During this school year, the Board and the Union agree to bargain any changes that are subject to collective bargaining resulting from any legislation, including but not limited to any impact of the ESEA, affecting the wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment of bargaining unit members.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Members of the Teacher Assistance Team
The United School Employees of Pasco and the Board recognize the importance of assisting teachers in their professional development. To reinforce our commitment to achieve this goal, the Teacher Assistance Team Program has been developed. The primary purpose of this program is to offer assistance to teachers who have been identified as needing to improve their professional performance.
Teacher Assistance Teams will be composed of the following members: a teacher mutually selected by the President of USEP and the Director or Supervisor of Employee Relations, a representative of USEP, the principal, a representative of the Employee Relations Department, and other persons and/or resources needed to assist the teacher in need of professional performance improvement.
Teachers that serve in this program should have a mentoring background, appropriate content area expertise, participated in related training such as Clinical Educator Training, Creating a Collaborative Culture through Coaching, Coaching to Improve Teaching and Learning, Differentiated Instruction, TEACH, CRISS, COMP, etc., and be willing to participate in any additional training required to serving on a team. Serving and/or participating in this program is entirely voluntary.
When a teacher serving on a Teacher Assistance Team is given a specific assignment, that teacher will receive a supplement payment up to the amount specified in the Academic Supplement Schedule each school year for the assignment. The exact amount will be determined jointly by a representative of USEP and a representative of the Employee Relations Department based upon the length and complexity of the assignment. Such supplement will be paid in a lump sum for the time worked at the end of each quarter of each school year.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
No Child Left Behind Impact on Instructional Staff
In an attempt to minimize the impact of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) Act on instructional staff, the Board and Union agree to the following provisions.
1.	It is the Board’s intent to keep teachers who are currently “highly qualified” in positions for which they hold a temporary or professional certificate with appropriate coverage.
2.	The Board shall make every effort to minimize the number of core academic subject areas for which a teacher must obtain a temporary or professional certificate with appropriate coverage.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANIDNG
Page 69
3.	The Board shall provide at no cost to the teacher, staff development opportunities for those teachers seeking to add the reading endorsement to their certificate and shall give priority to those teachers identified as needing the reading endorsement.
4.	The Board shall provide reimbursement for subject area examination fees at the regular administration rate to teachers attempting to become “highly qualified.” The Board shall also provide individual teachers reimbursement for a second attempt at passing a specific subject area examination if the teacher is unsuccessful on the first attempt.
5.	No new teachers will be hired to fill an advertised position vacancy until all current teachers who do not meet the NCLB “highly qualified” definition are provided the opportunity to apply for and be interviewed for the position; provided they hold either a temporary or professional certificate with appropriate coverage. Teachers wishing to transfer under this provision will make their interest known to the principal within the advertised period and will identify that they are seeking assignment priority in accordance with this Memorandum of Understanding. The Board shall give priority to such current teachers over outside applicants when filling vacant positions. Such priority will not supersede priority for involuntary or voluntary transfers resulting from staff reduction.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Paperwork Reduction for Teachers
The Board and Union agree to continue the work of the Paperwork Reduction for Teachers committee for the purpose of exploring ways to reduce teachers’ paperwork and to better utilize technology as a means of reducing paperwork, processes, and tasks. The President of USEP and the Superintendent will each appoint five (5) members to this committee. The committee shall study and recommend ways to reduce, revise, and consolidate paperwork requirements with the overall intent of streamlining or eliminating as much paperwork as possible.
This committee will meet as soon as possible into the 2005-2006 school year with initial recommendations being developed and made to the Superintendent no later than December 1, 2005.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Payment of Salary Increases
In anticipation of ratification, the Board and the Union agree that the negotiated salary increases for the 2005-2006 school year will be reflected in the August 19, 2005 teacher paycheck.
Should the contract with the negotiated salary increases not be ratified by the Board and Union, the salary increases will be negated and any salary paid as an increase will be deducted from future paychecks as soon as possible.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Refingerprinting, Retention of Fingerprints, and Five (5) Year National Check
Florida Statutes require retention of fingerprints for teachers in a Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) automated fingerprint identification system and a national check of the fingerprints every five (5) years. All teacher fingerprints submitted on or after July 1, 2004, have been entered into this system. Teacher fingerprints submitted prior to July 1, 2004, cannot be entered into the system. Therefore, all current teachers fingerprinted prior to July 1, 2004, must be refingerprinted. The refingerprinting must be completed prior to July 1, 2009. The statute states that the cost of the refingerprinting may be borne by the employee or employer.
The refingerprinting fee is currently $61.00 per teacher. The fee includes a $24.00 fee for a national records check and a $6.00 fee for the first year of retention of the fingerprints by the FDLE. Thereafter, the retention fee must be paid each year and the fee for the national records check paid every five (5) years.
In order to comply with the law and provide a benefit to teachers, the Board and the Union agree to the following:
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Page 70
1	Beginning in the 2005-2006 school year, the Board will begin a four (4) year process of refingerprinting effected teachers with the intent of refingerprinting approximately 25% of the group in each of the four (4) years.
2.	The Board will perform the refingerprinting at each school/worksite. Advance notice of the date(s) the refingerprinting will occur at each school/worksite will be provided and teachers will sign up for a time to be refingerprinted.
3.	Teachers who are not available to be refingerprinted when the refingerprinting is performed at their school/worksite must make arrangements to be refingerprinted at another school/worksite or the district office during that school year. Teachers who fail to be refingerprinted during the year in which they are designated to do so will pay the refingerprinting fee when they are refingerprinted.
4.	No release time will be given for refingerprinting.
5.	The Board will pay the refingerprinting fee.
6.	The Board will pay the retention fee.
7.	The Board will pay the fee for the five (5) year national check.
The estimated cost for 2005-2006 is $55,725. The fee structure as described is subject to change.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Reservists Called to Active Military Duty Following the September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attack
Beginning September 11, 2001, all teachers who are reservists called to full time active military service as a result of the terrorist attacks against our nation shall be paid according to the salary schedule plus any applicable supplements for the first thirty (30) days of such service.
Thereafter any such reservists shall have his/her total gross military pay supplemented up to the amount he/she was earning on the salary schedule plus any applicable supplements at the time the reservist was called to active duty. For the purpose of administering this provision, after the first thirty (30) days of such service, the reservist shall be required to provide documentation of total gross military pay by providing copies of the “monthly leave and earnings statement” or comparable certified information to the Board and shall provide a copy of his/her orders or comparable statement giving estimated length of full time active service. The reservist shall provide updated documentation should he/she experience a change of total gross military pay.
During the leave of absence pursuant to this provision, reservists shall retain all seniority rights, continue to accrue seniority and sick leave, and shall be entitled to maintain dependent insurance coverage by making the employee’s contribution toward the cost of such coverage.
Upon returning from leave, the reservist shall receive credit on the salary schedule for the period of absence pursuant to this provision and shall be returned to the position held at the time he/she was called to active duty.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Instructional Retiree Health Opt-Out Program
Effective January 1, 2004, the Board shall implement a Retiree Health Opt-Out Program. The Retiree Health OptOut Program is available only to those retirees who are eligible for district-paid group health insurance in accordance with Article X, Section F-1 of the Instructional Master Contract and who are enrolled in a comparable major medical health insurance plan through another carrier.
When a retiree enrolls in the Retiree Health Opt-Out Program, the Board will pay the retiree the current value available to active employees, $1008 for the 2005 plan year. Such amount is subject to federal income tax. An annual payment for the number of months the retiree participates in the Retiree Health Opt-Out Program will be issued in a lump sum in December of the plan year or upon termination of eligibility, whichever occurs first. A participant in the Retiree Health Opt-Out Program will not be required to contribute to the board his/her FRS Health Insurance Subsidy.
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Page 71
A participant in the Retiree Health Opt-Out Program may reenroll in the district-paid group health insurance plan only if he/she is no longer covered by another major medical health insurance plan. Within thirty (30) calendar days following the date of cancellation/termination of the other major medical health insurance plan, the retiree wishing to reenroll in the district-paid group health insurance plan must submit to the district’s department of Employee Benefits, Assistance, and Risk Management (EBARM) a written request to reenroll, completed application forms, and a letter from the previous major medical carrier or employer stating date of cancellation/termination of coverage. The letter must be on letterhead from the major medical carrier or employer, include the cancellation/termination date of coverage, and signature of the benefit administrator of the major medical carrier or employer. The effective date of coverage of the district-paid group health insurance coverage will be the first day of the month following the submission of the written request, application, and related documents. The district does not guarantee continuous health coverage.
A retiree who fails to reenroll in the district-paid group health insurance plan in accordance with the timelines set forth in the above paragraph will remain in the Retiree Health Opt-Out Program until Medicare eligible or January 1 following the next regularly scheduled district open enrollment period, whichever comes first.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
School Choice Preference Employee Request
1.	A teacher assigned to a school site shall have preference given to his/her request to have his/her child(ren) (i.e., any child in his/her custodial care) attend school at his/her assigned school site unless the following prevents granting the request:
a)	the appropriate educational program does not exist at that site, or
b)	other extenuating circumstances (i.e., expulsion, serious disciplinary infractions, etc.) exist that may
be cause for the child(ren)’s non-attendance.
The employee may appeal any denied request to the Director of Student Services. The decision of the Director shall be final.
2.	In the event a teacher requests placement of his/her child in a school other than the actual school in which he/she works in order to continue the child’s attendance in the feeder pattern of that school, subject to the approval of the Director of Student Services and the Superintendent, the request will be granted. The decision of the Director of Student Services and the Superintendent will be final.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Substitute Task Force
The Board and the Union recognize the challenge of hiring and retaining qualified substitutes for teachers. The current Substitute Task Force shall continue to function for this school year to further explore ways to recruit and retain qualified substitutes. The Board and the Union agree that the President of USEP shall continue to be a member of this task force.
END OF MEMORANDUMS OF UNDERSTANDING
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Page 72
APPENDIX A
MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION AND DUES AUTHORIZATION CARD
UNITED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES OF PASCO
			
WORKSITE	JOB TITLE	PRINT NAME (LAST FIRST)	SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
ADDRESS
CITY
ZIP CODE
HOME PHONE
E-MAIL ADDRESS
USEP CONTINUING MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION
F 1	T71 r\
□n PAYROLL DEDUCTION
I authorize the District School Board of Pasco Countylo deduct membership dues from my paycheck to be remitted to the United School Employees of Pasco. I understand that I may terminate these deductions at any time by submitting thirty (30) days written notice to the School Board and USEP.
’ s ■? a — * -■■*4 i
For USEP Use Only
Date Received:
Date sent to District for processing:
z
3 Q.
4)
E c

Signature
Date
CP CASH PAY
Effective Date of Membership

IRS TAX DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT
Dues paid to United School Employees of Pasco may not be deductible for federal income purposes; however, under limited circumstances, dues may qualify as a business expense.
PLEAST PRINT CLEARLY
TO ALL PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR MEMBERSHIP IN THE BARGAINING UNITS REPRESENTED BY THE UNITED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES OF PASCO (USEP).
As required by law, USEP represents all members of the Instructional and School Related Personnel (SRP) units at the bargaining table. Only dues-paying members of the USEP, however, are eligible for all other services provided by the Union, including processing of grievances and legal counsel in the event of duty-related difficulties. Should a member obtain outside representation and/or legal counsel, USEP will cease to provide representation. In addition, the costs of such outside representation and/or counsel will be borne solely by the member.
To be represented free of charge, the individual seeking assistance must have been a dues-paying member in good standing for a minimum of thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date upon which the problem occurred.
However, bargaining unit members who are new to the Pasco County school system and who have not previously been eligible for USEP membership will be entitled to receive the immediate benefit of the services described above if they join USEP during the first fifteen (15) working days of their employment. Any incident occurring after this fifteen (15) working day period will be subject to the thirty (30) calendar day restriction mentioned above.
On occasion, USEP may elect to represent non-dues paying individuals. Such individuals may be required to pay annual membership dues and a professional service fee that will be based upon the complexity of the case.
Revised and adopted by USEP Representative Council August, 1995
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
APPENDIX A
Page 73
APPENDIX B — GRIEVANCE FORM
DISTRICT SCHOOL BOARD OF PASCO COUNTY
Grievance Report Form
Name(s) of Grievant(s)
School Assignment
Home Address
Home Telephone (________)_______________________
Grievance #/Year ___________ Grievance Level ______________________ Date Filed
Grievance filed under the provisions of: Article VI, Section A-1/Section A-2
Article(s) and specific section(s) of Agreement violated
Date of alleged violation
Date of informal level discussion with supervisor
Statement of grievance _________________________________________________________________________
Relief sought
Grievant(s) Signature(s) Date
Date received by Administrator
Disposition of Administrator
Administrator(s) Signature(s) Date
One copy each: Administrator, Union, Grievant, Superintendent
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
APPENDIX B — GRIEVANCE FORM
Page 74
APPENDIX C
CONTRACT WAIVER PRE-APPROVAL REQUEST FORM
Directions:
To request a waiver, the principal of the school must complete the information on this form and forward the form to the Director of the Department of Employee Relations and the President of the United School Employees of Pasco.
Upon review by the Director and President, a copy of the form verifying pre-approval or disapproval will be returned to the school principal.
SCHOOL:___________________________________________ DATE OF SUBMITTAL:______________________
SCHOOL YEAR FOR REQUEST OF WAIVER:________________________ PRINCIPAL_______________________
A waiver is being requested for:
Article: ______________ Section: __________________ Sub-Section:______________
ATTACH STATEMENTS OF THE FOLLOWING:
1.	How the proposed waiver will impact provisions of the current contract.
2.	How this waiver relates directly to the improvement of an educational program, instructional strategy, organizational pattern or learning-related opportunity for students.
3.	A description of how the school instructional staff will have input into the development of the proposal.
4.	How and when the program will be evaluated.
5.	How and when the staff will be requested to vote on the instructional waiver request.
6.	What if any alternatives have been explored besides this program.
7.	Identify the teachers by category that will be affected by this proposal.
PRE-APPROVAL REQUEST IS:
______APPROVED
______APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS (see attached statement)
______NOT APPROVED
Signature of Director of Employee Relations
Signature of President of USEP
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
APPENDIX C
Page 75
APPENDIX D
CONTRACT WAIVER FINAL APPROVAL REQUEST FORM
Directions:
To request a final approval for a contract waiver request, the principal of the school must submit this form with all applicable information to the Director of the Department of Employee Relations and the President of the United School Employees of Pasco.
Upon review by the Director and President a copy of the form verifying final approval or disapproval will be returned to the school Principal.
SCHOOL:________________________________________________ DATE OF SUBMITTAL:__________________________
SCHOOL YEAR FOR REQUEST OF WAIVER:_____________________________ PRINCIPAL___________________________
A waiver is being requested for:
Article: ________________ Section: ____________________ Sub-Section:__________________
ATTACH STATEMENTS OF THE FOLLOWING:
1.	How the proposed waiver will impact provisions of the current contract.
2.	How this waiver relates directly to the improvement of an educational program, instructional strategy, organizational pattern or learning-related opportunity for students.
3.	A description of how the school instructional staff had input into the development of the proposal.
4.	How and when the program will be evaluated.
5.	How and when the teachers voted on the instructional waiver request.
6.	Identify the teachers by category that will be affected by this proposal.
VOTE VERIFICATION: Must be submitted prior to May 1.
Total Teachers in the Bargaining Unit:	_______
Total Voting: 	Yes Total Voting: 	No	Percentage: 	 Percentage: 	
Date of Vote __________________ Time ________________
Signatures below verify that voting was conducted according to the Instructional Master Contract and the results contained above are accurate.
Signature of Principal
Signature of USEP President or Designee
FINAL APPROVAL REQUEST IS:
______APPROVED
______APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS (see attached statement)
______NOT APPROVED
Signature of Director of Employee Relations	Signature of President of USEP
2005-2006 Instructional Master Contract
APPENDIX D
Page 76