Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Detroit School District Board of Education and Organization of School Administrators and Supervisors (OSAS), American Federation of School Administrators (AFSA), AFL-CIO, Local 28 (1999) (MOA)
K#: 830197
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
AGREEMENT
between
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE SCHOOL DISTRICT OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
and the
ORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS AND SUPERVISORS Local 28, AFL-CIO
A F S A
LOCAL 28
July 1,1999 - June 30,2004
S>33
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)i TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1.0 PREAMBLE .......................... 1
2.0 BALANCE OF STAFF .................. 1
3.0 RECOGNITION........................ 1
4.0 INDIVIDUAL CONTRACT................ 2
5.0 ADMINISTRATIVE TENURE AND EVALUATION ... 3
5.1	ADMINISTRATIVE TENURE.......... 3
5.2	DISCIPLINARY ACTION ........... 3
5.3	QUALITY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION.. 3
5.4	PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES......... 4
6.0 PERFORMANCE OF STAFF............... 4
6.1	PERSONNEL RECORDS ................. 5
7.0 TRANSFERS, DETACHED DUTY, RELEASES AND PROMOTIONS ..................... 5
7.1	TRANSFERS...................... 5
7.2	DETACHED DUTY ................. 6
7.3	RELEASES....................... 6
7.4	PROMOTION PROCEDURES........... 8
7.5	POSITION CLASSIFICATIONS ...... 9
8.0 SALARY............................. 9
8.1	GENERAL PAY SCHEDULES ......... 9
8.2	SALARY STEPS................... 9
8.3	ADVANCED PREPARATION - MASTER’S DEGREE PLUS 30 HOURS................12
8.4	DOCTORATE......................13
9.0 ADMINISTRATION.....................13
9.1	ASSIGNMENTS PRIOR TO OPENING
OF SCHOOL.......................13
9.2	ADMINISTRATIVE STAFFING .......13
9.3	ASSIGNMENTS....................14
9.4	SUMMER SCHOOL..................14
9.5	ADULT EDUCATION ...............14
9.6	CURRICULUM LEADERS/CURRICULUM
COORDINATORS....................14
10.0 HOURS OF WORK ....................16
11.0 1966-67 ADJUSTMENT OF SCHOOL YEAR.16
ii OS AS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont’d) Page
12.0 LEAVE POLICY ........................16
12.1	PERSONAL BUSINESS LEAVE DAYS.....16
12.2	SICK LEAVE.......................17
12.3	VACATION DAYS .................  19
12.4	EMERGENCY WEATHER CONDITIONS -10-MONTHS............................19
12.5	OTHER LEAVES AND BENEFITS........19
13.0 INSURANCE............................20
13.1	DESIGNATED HOSPITALS ............20
13.2	HOSPITAL-MEDICAL SURGICAL OPTIONS .... 20
13.3	HOSPITAL-MEDICAL-SURGICAL INSURANCE OPTIONS....................20
13.4	OPT-OUT PLAN.....................21
13.5	DENTAL-OPTICAL INSURANCE OPTION .21
13.6	LIFE INSURANCE...................21
13.7	FRINGE BENEFITS — GENERAL........22
14.0 PROPERTY.............................22
14.1	CARE OF SCHOOL PROPERTY..........22
14.2	PERSONAL PROPERTY LOSSES ........22
15.0 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE .................23
16.0 LEGAL ASSISTANCE ....................25
16.1	COMPLAINT OR CHARGES ............25
17.0 EMPOWERMENT/SCHOOL-BASED MANAGEMENT ...........................25
17.1 EMPOWERMENT ADDENDUM 1992-94 ... 26
18.0 SECURITY PERSONNEL SPECIAL	PROVISIONS .... 26
19.0 GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTANTS, ANALYSTS, AUDITORS & ACCOUNTANTS ...............27
20.0 GENERAL .............................27
21.0 DURATION.............................27
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT......................29
SALARY SCHEDULES .........................42
Published jointly by
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE SCHOOL DISTRICT OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS CENTER 5057 WOODWARD AVENUE DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48202
Phone: (313) 494-1000
and the
ORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS AND SUPERVISORS AFSA - Local 28, AFL-CIO
330 FISHER BULDING 3011 W. GRAND BLVD. DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48202 Phone: (313) 972-4740
Hours: 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
OFFICIALLY DESIGNATED INDUSTRIAL CLINICS
If you’re injured on the job, go to one of the clinics listed below:
INDUSTRIAL CLINIC PROVIDERS
EAST	NORTH
CONCENTRA	CONCENTRA
Sterling Heights	Troy
40732 Van Dyke	264 West Maple Road
810-977-1510	248-362-4616
7 days a week	7 days a week
24 hours	24 hours
CONCENTRA	PRIMECARE
Warren	Ferndale
27070 Hoover Road	23338 Woodward Ave.
Suite B	248-543-6400
810-756-5800	Monday - Friday
7 days a week	8:30 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.
24 hours	Saturday
	8:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m.
CONCENTRA	
Detroit	WEST
2151 E. Jefferson Ave.	CONCENTRA
313-259-7990	
Monday - Friday	Romulus
7:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.	11100 Metro Airport
Saturday	Center Drive
8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.	734-955-7000 7 Days a week
HEALTH SOUTH	24 hours
Warren	
22605 Van Dyke 810-759-1100 Monday - Friday	DOWNRIVER CONCENTRA Taylor
8:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.	
Saturday	21107 Eureka Road
9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.	734-287-3415 Monday - Friday
	24 hours
CENTRAL	Saturday
CONCENTRA	8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
Detroit	
4229 Cass Avenue	DOWNTOWN
313-831-3130	PRIMECARE
Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.	Detroit
	1320 Wilkins 313-393-2300
	
	Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
	Saturday
	9:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.
OFFICIALLY DESIGNATED INDUSTRIAL CLINICS
If you're injured on the job, go to one of the clinics listed below:
INDUSTRIAL CLINIC PROVIDERS
NORTHWEST	SOUTHWEST
PRIMECARE	PRIMECARE
Detroit	Detroit
8830 W. McNichols	901 W. Grand Blvd.
313-862-9400	313-894-1105
Monday - Friday	Monday - Friday
8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.	8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
NORTHWEST	PRIMECARE
GEN. IND. CLINIC	Redford
Detroit	14671 Telegraph Rd.
9600 Dexter	313-387-2100
313-894-7881	Monday - Friday
Monday - Friday	8:30 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
8:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.	Saturday
Saturday 8:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. CONCENTRA Livonia 28196 Schoolcraft Rd. 734-425-4600 7 days a week 24 hours	10:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.
CONCENTRA
Livonia
34095 Plymouth Rd. 734-513-2000 Monday - Friday 7:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
CONCENTRA
Southfield
26185 Greenfield 248-569-2040 Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE ORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS AND SUPERVISORS
In the wake of the current Michigan political climate, this Agreement represents the best example of positive labor/management relations. Representatives from both the Union and the Board have fashioned a settlement that provides reasonable wage increases for our members without negatively impacting funding for instructional enhancements.
Both the contract duration and the benefits negotiated will provide the necessary stability for our members to concentrate their efforts on addressing the educational needs of children. As professional educators, we support the school system’s initiatives to “educate all children.”
As educational leaders, we play an integral role in shaping the future of education in this city. I join with OS AS officers and executive board members in expressing continued commitment to render educational excellence.
Diann Woodard, President
Organization of School Administrators and Supervisors February 2001
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
1
AGREEMENT
between the
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE SCHOOL DISTRICT OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
and the
ORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATOR AND SUPERVISORS
1.0 PREAMBLE
The purpose of the schools is to educate the children growing up in our community so that they may be effective participants in our society, contributing economically, participating socially, active politically, independent intellectually. We must produce strong citizens who will build and rebuild a strong, effective democratic society in which the promises of the Declaration of Independence and Federal Constitution may become realities for all people. We must recognize that our children grow to adulthood as products of the total society. The influence of the schools is, therefore, central and vital, but the influence of every element of society outside the schools must support the importance and relevance of the schools and reinforce their teachings.
In an effort to produce a productive, self-supporting, fulfilled citizen as described, the educational leader within our schools must have the skills, commitment and experience to:
•	Provide an environment in which staff, students and community may create optimum educational experiences and programs to meet the specific needs of the local student body.
•	Maintain open channels of communication among students, staff, communities, areas and Board.
•	Act as agents for appropriate change as well as supporting the maintenance of the education program.
•	Set high expectations for both performance and achievement of students as an important part of student self-motivation.
2.0 BALANCE OF STAFF
The Board and the OSAS reaffirm their commitment to the balanced staff concept under which teachers assigned to schools shall have the necessary qualifications to teach the subject area and grade level, and pupils shall have experiences with teachers and administrators of different races, including both men and women.
3.0 RECOGNITION
The Board recognizes OSAS as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of personnel employed in classifications set forth as follows for the purpose of bargaining with the Board with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of work:
Accountant; Administrative Manager; Assistant Chief of Security; Assistant Department Head; Attendance/ Department Head; Auditor; Budget Analyst; Business Manager; Coordinator; Curricular/Administrator; Curriculum Leader; Curriculum Coordinator;
2
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
Fiscal Coordinator; Department Head/Unit Head (or); Director; Director, (Non-Educational); Director, Communications; Elementary Staff Coordinator; Field Supervisor - Security; Head Commercial Foods Teacher; Head Apprentice Teacher; Investigator; Junior Administrative Assistant (10 month); Principal Accountant; Specialist, Day School for Deaf; Supervisor; Guidance Department Head; Program Supervisor; Program Associate I; Program Associate IL
1.	Employees with titles that were deleted in the fall 1990 Reorganization will maintain the salary schedule and seniority they had prior to reorganization for the duration of their employment with the Detroit Public Schools. They will receive all subsequent negotiated salary increases and increments. These entitlements will be maintained until such time as they are promoted or leave employment.
2.	The 12-month OSAS employees will be placed in the following classifications in the Detroit Public Schools’ Reorganization 1990:
Classification IV Director
Classification V	Program Supervisor
Classification VI	Program Associate I
Program Associate II
4.	Salary schedules of deleted positions will continue to be part of the contract.
5.	OSAS 12-month employees whose titles have been deleted in the Reorganization will be placed in the new position titles of Program Supervisor or Program Associate I, or Program Associate II. Those titles which have not been deleted will maintain the same position title and will be placed in the new classifications along with Director or Program Supervisor or Program Associate I or Program Associate II, whichever relates to their salaries.
6.	The salary structure for the new position titles will be as follows, subject to negotiated increase:
CLASSIFICATION	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM	CODE
Program Supervisor	$51,414	$63,684	A.D.
Program Associate I	$42,325	$54,840	J.A.A.
Program Associate II	$28,707	$47,198	T.A.A.
Similar titles established hereafter shall be advised or become part of the member classification, and such new members shall be represented by OSAS.
Excluded from the unit are all personnel employed in classifications not specifically listed above as well as all confidential, managerial and executive employees.
4.0 INDIVIDUAL CONTRACT
A.	Each administrator shall be given a one (1) year individual contract of employment. However, an administrator employed following the commencement of the school year shall be given a contract for the balance of that school year.
B.	The individual contracts of employment shall provide that administrators are not granted tenure as an administrator, but will retain tenure previously granted as a classroom teacher if applicable.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
3
C.	Non-renewal of an administrator’s contract is subject to the requirements specified in the Michigan School Code.
D.	The Union may submit to arbitration a challenge to the non-renewal of a unit member. Should the Union and the unit member make that election, the arbitration remedy is exclusive and the person receiving the notice is precluded from commencing any action in the circuit court with respect to the non-renewal. Should the Union decline to make that election, the unit member has such rights as are granted by law. The arbitration will be conducted in accordance with the procedure described in Section 15.0 of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall be confined to applying section 471 (arbitrary and capricious) of the Michigan School Code and determining whether the employer has complied with that section. The decision of the Arbitrator is final and binding on all parties including the unit member.
5.0 ADMINISTRATIVE TENURE AND EVALUATION
5.1	ADMINISTRATIVE TENURE
1.	Individuals promoted to administrative positions prior to December 13, 1966, shall retain administrative tenure rights in position(s) held prior to that date.
2.	Administrative tenure means the rights conferred as the result of the Tenure of Administrator policy adopted by the Board on December 13, 1966.
3.	An Administrator, promoted under the Tenure of Administrator policy adopted by the Board on December 13, 1966, shall continue in his/her classification and have his/her three (3) year contract renewed upon expiration, except where his/her performance in that classification has been determined to be unsatisfactory. In that event, she/he shall be subject to Section 5.3.
5.2	DISCIPLINARY ACTION
1.	When warranted, subject to the grievance procedure (14.0) contained in this Agreement, and in accordance with due process, nothing contained in this Agreement shall restrict management from suspending, with or without pay, or transferring and/or demoting, or discharging any bargaining unit member where good cause for such action exists. This section will not be used to circumvent the evaluation procedures specified in Section 4.3.
2.	In the event expected areas of administrative responsibility not included in the process described in Section 4.3 are not achieved, further action may be initiated under the provisions of subsection #1 above.
5.3	QUALITY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
The Board and OSAS affirm their commitment to a planned way for addressing key issues of quality education through personnel effectiveness, performance excellence and system-wide and individual accountability. The parties recognize their responsibility to support the development and implementation of the district-wide quality performance evaluation system that:
•	involves each employee in self-appraisal assessment;
4 OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
•	fosters understanding, creating and sustaining a customer service, customer satisfaction focus; and
•	establishes appropriate measures and information systems necessary to obtain valid data useful for sound managerial and organizational decision-making and improvement.
The purpose of the Quality Performance System shall be to maintain the educational effectiveness and managerial efficiency of administrative staff of the Detroit Public Schools. All members of the OSAS bargaining unit shall participate in the Performance Review System.
1.	The administrator/supervisor responsible for direction and supervision of other administrators and supervisors shall be responsible for the evaluation of these individuals. In schools, the primary administrator/supervisor is the principal.
2.	Key objectives shall be taken from the mission, goals and objectives of the school district.
A. The Chief Executive Officer will distribute the district’s mission, goals and objectives to administrators and supervisors represented by OSAS. Administrators/supervisors transferred or newly assigned during the year shall participate in the review system in the new assignment.
3.	The final performance review session shall be conducted at the end of the school year for 10-month administrators/supervisors and at the end of the fiscal year for 12-month administrators/supervisors.
The professional evaluation language now contained in the contract (4.3) shall be amended. The parties agree to begin meeting by a date certain to discuss successor language.
5.4 PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
Employees appointed or promoted to regular positions in the unit shall be considered probationary employees for the first two (2) years of employment. During the first year, employees shall have a midyear conference with their immediate superiors. In instances where it is anticipated the employees are not meeting their standards, the immediate superiors will provide notification at the midyear conference or not less than ninety days prior to final evaluation for the year.
Performance standards shall be based upon the administrator/supervisor’s position description, current situation, professional skills, interpersonal relationships and personal qualities. The standards will be taken from the mission, goals and objectives provided by the Chief Executive Officer. The evaluation format under 5.3 will be used for this purpose.
Grievances regarding an employee’s evaluation and/or demotion can only be filed based on the Board’s action being arbitrary or capricious.
6.0 PERFORMANCE OF STAFF
1.	It is the responsibility of school administrators/supervisors, area administrators/ supervisors, central administrators/supervisors and unit heads to recommend disciplinary action, including immediate removal and/or discharge, where appropriate, for staff members who are not performing satisfactorily.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
5
2.	Inciting pupils to disrupt the school, encouraging the delinquency of minors, racially biased behavior, gross insubordination and encouraging others to be insubordinate, although not inclusive are examples of types of conduct which will require administrators/supervisors to recommend disciplinary action including immediate removal and/or discharge.
3.	Administrators/supervisors have the responsibility to notify the appropriate administrative unit and the Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel in the event that subordinates do not respond to remedial measures. Such notification should contain descriptions of the nature of the problem, corrective measures taken, and the subordinate’s response to the corrective measures. These reports will be reviewed by the appropriate administrative unit who will then consult with the evaluating administrator to determine whether further action is indicated.
4.	The Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel will note on Personnel Action Form 4301 if an unsatisfactory employee has been reassigned. The administrator may then request from the Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel information relating to the unsatisfactory rating in order to be better able to help the employee.
5.	The rating of unsatisfactory personnel may occur at any time consistent with the contractual agreements between the Detroit Board of Education and unions representing the personnel involved. Principals’ recommendations for the transfer of unsatisfactory personnel will be evaluated in view of the nature and degree of unsatisfactory performance. Decisions with regard to transfers will be made as soon as possible consistent with state law, Board of Education policies and contractual agreements.
6.1	PERSONNEL RECORDS
1.	Personnel records shall continue to be confidential and carefully guarded in the interest of the individual employee. They are available only for administrative and supervisory use, but they are accessible, with the exceptions noted below, to the individual employee concerned.
2.	The individual employee may examine his/her own record with the Chief Executive Officer or his designee. The exceptions include the tests and reports from the following sources: the board medical examiner, the Psychological Clinic, committees acting in the selection of promotion processes, placement bureaus and former employers.
7.0 TRANSFERS, DETACHED DUTY, RELEASES AND PROMOTIONS
7.1	TRANSFERS
1.	In recognition of the commitment by both the School District of the City of Detroit and OSAS to the principle of total involvement in seeking solutions to educational problems, it is acknowledged by both parties that the District retains the right to transfer unit members covered by this Agreement from one position to another.
2.	The following procedures will be followed when administrators are transferred pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.1 of the July 1,1983-June 30, 1986, Collective Bargaining Agreement:
6
OS AS Locai 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
a.	In the case of individual transfers:
(1)	Unit members being transferred shall be notified in writing at least thirty (30) calendar days before the date the contemplated transfer is to become effective. The notice shall set forth the expected date of transfer and the new work location. OSAS -shall be furnished with a copy of the notification at the same time. The parties recognize that emergency situations may arise in which the thirty-(30) day notice period is not feasible.
(2)	In the event the employee disagrees with the contemplated transfer, he shall file a written objection through OSAS to the Board within five (5) calendar days after receipt of notification.
(3)	The committee described in Section 6.1 shall convene and review the matter and report its findings within three (3) business days. If the committee does not agree, the matter will be referred to the Chief Executive Officer or his designee.
b.	In the event the Chief Executive Officer proposes a policy concerning transfers to be considered by the Board of Education, the Chief Executive Officer will give notice to OSAS thirty (30) days prior to formal consideration by the Board of said policy. Within three (3) working days of receipt of said notice OSAS may request to meet with the Chief Executive Officer or his designee to discuss the proposed policy. The meeting shall occur within three (3) working days of the request by OSAS for said meeting.
7.2	DETACHED DUTY
1.	Unit personnel shall not be placed on detached duty from their regular locations for over one year without their regular position declared vacant.
2.	No administrator or supervisor shall be required to perform the duties or fill the position of an employee whose rank or pay is superior to his/hers for more than a reasonable time.
7.3	RELEASES
1.	In the event the number of persons assigned to administrative/super-visory positions exceeds the actual number of positions needed due to a decline in student enrollment, budget constraints, and/or termination of programs, the reclassification of designated administra-tors/supervisors will be effectuated as provided below:
a.	The designated number of excessive administrators/supervisors will be reclassified for pay and other purposes on the basis of the present classification seniority as an administrator/supervisor.
b.	If it is determined that reassignments are necessary, unit members will be reassigned in the following order, provided education, experience and special skills are met:
1st vacancies
2nd “acting” positions
3rd bumping least senior in current classification
4th bumping to the next lower classification
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
7
If the reassignment generated bumping pursuant to the present classification seniority, the administrator/supervisor with the least seniority shall be reclassified, but only to the next lower classification for which he/she is qualified. Irrespective of his/her lack of seniority for the new position, he/she will bump the administrator/supervisor in the new position who has the least classification seniority.
c.	If a twelve-month administrator/supervisor is bumped out of his/her classification, he/she shall have the option of moving to the next lowest staff classification or election to return to a line position previously held. The person so subjected to reclassification will be placed in the new classification with seniority accumulated since his/her appointment date into OSAS.
d.	If a ten-month administrator/supervisor is bumped out of his/her classification, he/she shall have the option of moving to the next lowest fine classification or electing to return to a staff position previously held. The person so subjected to reclassification will be placed in the new classification with seniority accumulated since his/her appointment date into OSAS.
e.	In the event appointment dates are the same, seniority will be determined by the appointment date to a previous OSAS-represented administrative classification. If identical appointment dates still exist, system seniority will be the tiebreaker. If there is no previous OSAS-represented administrative position, system seniority will be used.
f.	If an administrator/supervisor voluntarily takes a demotion, staff or line, then that person will be placed in the new classification with seniority accumulated since his/her appointment date into OSAS.
g.	As administrator/supervisor positions become available, administrators/ supervisors reclassified pursuant to the provisions of this section will be returned to their former classifications for which they are qualified on a priority basis according to former classification seniority as an administrator/supervisor and the balance of staff policy.
h.	Whenever there are excessive administrators/supervisors in a classification covered by this Agreement, access to the eligibility pools for that classification will be frozen until such time that excess personnel that meet education, experience and special skills have been assigned.
i.	No bargaining unit member shall be laid off for bona fide economic reasons with less than sixty (60) calendar days written notice except in instances of strikes by other bargaining units.
j.	Administrators/supervisors subject to provisions of this section will be given ten (10) working days notice prior to reclassification and/or reassignment outside of their schools or departments.
k.	In the event the District deems it necessary to lay off employees covered by this agreement due to a work stoppage by another bargaining unit or other group of District employees, unless notified to the contrary, 10-month OSAS-represented employees shall be considered laid off at the end of the third (3rd) working day of a work stoppage by another bargaining unit or other group of District employees. OSAS reaffirms the option of the Chief Execu-
8
OS AS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
tive Officer to schedule work or layoff of OSAS-represented employees in the event of a work stoppage of any other bargaining unit, provided the total work year and the annual salary are maintained.
Twelve-month OSAS-represented employees shall be provided five (5) working days advance written notice of any layoff.
7.4	PROMOTION PROCEDURES
Management reserves the right to continue to define the qualifications/ competencies, and assessment tools for all classifications in order to meet the challenges and needs of the changing environment. Management shall not reduce the classification of an approved vacant position without prior notification being given to the Union.
1.	Upon request from a principal or site administrator, the Department of Human Resource Management and Planning shall post an announcement for a specific vacancy. This posting will include all qualifications necessary to fill the vacancy. Persons wishing to apply must submit applications in accordance with the directives outlined in said announcement.
(Note: A prospective candidate can apply for a vacancy that demands a lower classification, but cannot apply for a vacancy for which he/she is not deemed eligible.)
Unit members currently employed by the District, who wish to apply for a vacancy will be placed in the eligibility pool for that specific position. In addition to the eligibility requirements identified in the announcement, a current employee’s eligibility will also be predicated on the following:
•	Probationary employees are not eligible for transfers or promotions; and,
•	He/she must not have been penalized for a disciplinary infraction for at least one year (12 months prior to the date of posting the announcement); and,
•	He/she must have received a satisfactory job performance evaluation during the last rating period.
Applicants who are not currently employed by the District must satisfy the District’s employment policy requirements for employment in addition to the eligibility requirements identified in the announcement.
2.	Selections for each vacancy will be as follows:
•	Once eligibility has been determined, candidates for a single position will be in the pool for that position only.
•	Eligibility for any one (1) position will not automatically qualify the candidate for any other position. The position in question will be filled from pool candidates only.
•	If no one is selected from the original pool, the district has the right to re-post the position.
3.	The Department of Human Resource Management and Planning shall fill all posted vacancies within ninety (90) days.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
9
4.	Exceptions
Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, exceptions may be made to the above procedures to comply with applicable laws, court and arbitration decisions.
7.5	POSITION CLASSIFICATIONS
1.	The Board and OSAS affirm their commitment to meaningful, systematic and equitable procedures for determining classifications and commensurate salaries of administrators/supervisors. To that end, the Board shall develop and implement a system of position classifications.
2.	During the period of this Agreement, classifications held by incumbents shall not be changed until those positions become vacant.
8.0 SALARY
8.1	GENERAL PAY SCHEDULES
1.	For 12-month employees, salary adjustments will be effective at the beginning of the first full pay period which starts in July.
2.	The Board shall pay high school physical education department heads for supervisory duties in connection with athletic events. The sum shall be $3,900 for 1999-2000; $3,978 for 2000-2001; and $4,058 for 2001-2002.
3.	Negotiated salary raises must be approved by the Chief Executive Officer before they are paid. The Board shall continue its efforts to pay negotiated raises in a timely manner.
4.	The Board and OSAS agree to work toward extending the school year for school-based administrators. As an effort toward this goal, the parties agree that current 10-month employees will have a salary schedule based on 40-weeks, which replaces the salary based on 39-weeks, plus 3 days. In return for working the 200 days, the new rates will be determined accordingly:
Salary Schedule (3): 10-Month (40-week) Employees -
Refer to Appendix
Salary Schedule (4): 12-Month (52-week) Employees -
Refer to Appendix
5.	Summer school and workshop rates: The general percentage increase shall be applied to all OSAS workshop and summer school rates.
6.	Beginning with the 1999-2000 school year, all DPS Community Use permit-based programs (Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, etc.) will be conducted without administrative compensation, except for those programs that specifically provide for compensation for unit members (e.g., 31A and Title I, etc.).
8.2	SALARY STEPS (Effective July 1, 2001)
1.	A unit member’s right to receive the salary range increases provided for in Schedule C of this Agreement, shall be contingent upon satisfying the following prerequisite:
The employee must meet the School District of the City of Detroit Attendance Standard of 96%.
10
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
2.	The employee will be notified prior to his/her ninth day of non-exempt absence.
2.	A unit member shall be restored to his/her correct salary range upon the satisfaction of the following conditions:
The employee is in compliance with the School District of the City of Detroit Attendance Standard for a period of 12 months.
3.	The following shall not count as absences under the School District of the City of Detroit Attendance Standard for purposes of this section: (1) absences which qualify as entitlements under either the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) or Workers’ Compensation; (2) death leave; (3) recognized religious holidays; (4) jury duty; (5) military service; (6) union release time; (7) police reserve time; (8) absences due to childhood diseases of chickenpox, measles, mumps, diphtheria, whooping cough, impetigo and conjunctivitis; and (9) two (2) emergency days as defined in Article 12.1. When a unit member’s qualifying absence under the FMLA extends beyond the FMLA period, the additional absences shall not count as absences under the School District of the City of Detroit Attendance Standard.
4.	Disputes about absences arising from FMLA claims may be appealed to the District’s medical or civil rights offices.
Disputes about absences arising from Workers’ Compensation claims may be appealed to the District’s Office of Risk Management.
All other disputes about absences may be appealed through the grievance process identified in the collective bargaining Agreement.
If a unit member is denied a salary range increase and based on some further determination, it is found that the employee is not in violation of the School District of the City of Detroit Attendance Standard, then the employee will be made whole for any previous salary range increases which the employee was denied under this provision.
5.	The above also pertains to performance bonuses.
Salary Schedules (Effective July 1,2001)
6.	For any unit member who is paid at the maximum step of the salary schedule provided in Schedule C of this Agreement, the unit member’s right to receive the pay adjustment for the next school year that has been negotiated between the parties shall be denied if the unit members fails to meet the attendance criteria according to the School District of the City of Detroit Attendance Standard of 96%.
The employee will be notified prior to his/her ninth day of non-exempt absence.
7.	A unit member’s right to receive the following year’s pay adjustment negotiated between the parties shall be reinstated when the unit member is in compliance with the School District of the City of Detroit Attendance Standard for a period of 12 months.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
11
8.	The following shall not count as absences under the School District of the City of Detroit Attendance Standard for purposes of this section: (1) absences which qualify as entitlements under either the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) or Workers’ Compensation; (2) death leave; (3) recognized religious holidays; (4) jury duty; (5) military service; (6) union release time; (7) police reserve time; (8) absences due to childhood diseases of chickenpox, measles, mumps, diphtheria, whooping cough, impetigo and conjunctivitis; and (9) two (2) emergency days as defined in Article ILL When a unit member’s qualifying absence under the FMLA extends beyond the FMLA period, the additional absences shall not count as absences under the School District of the City of Detroit Attendance Standard.
9.	Disputes about absences arising from FMLA claims may be appealed to the District’s medical or civil rights offices.
Disputes about absences arising from Workers’ Compensation claims may be appealed to the District’s Office of Risk Management.
All other disputes about absences may be appealed through the grievance process identified in the collective bargaining Agreement.
If an employee is denied a salary step increase and based on further determination it is found that the employee is not in violation of the School District of the City of Detroit Attendance Standard, then the employee will be made whole for any previous salary step increases which the employee was denied under this provision.
10.	The above also pertains to performance bonuses.
Base Salary Rates for Curriculum Coordinators and Curriculum Leaders
11	The effective date for implementation of the following rates shall be
July 1, 1999:
Increment Steps	Salary
DPS Minimum 1st Step $51,670
DPS Step 2	$56,729
DPS Step 3	$61,788
DPS Step 4	$66,846
12.	The position of Curriculum Coordinator will be compensated at the rate of five percent (5%) higher than what they would have earned as Curriculum Leader.
13.	Asa result of these rate changes, no current unit member will suffer a reduction of their annual compensation. If a unit member’s compensation is between steps as of June 30, 1999, their annual compensation will move to the next highest step.
14.	A joint Union-Management Commitment will review the current pay ranges for the purpose of establishing salary schedules for advanced preparation.
15.	The schedule above reflects a three percent (3%) increase effective July 1, 1999. In addition, there will be a two percent (2%) increase, effective July 1,2000; and a two percent (2%) increase, effective July
12
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
1,	2001. For the school years 2002-2003 and 2003-2004, the parties will meet to negotiate wages and benefits, and each party may submit as many as two (2) additional proposals for bargaining.
Salary Rate for Members Other than Curriculum Coordinators and Curriculum Leaders
16.	Unit members, other than Curriculum Coordinators and Curriculum Leaders, shall receive a three percent (3%) salary increase, effective July 1,1999; a two percent (2%) salary increase effective July 1,2000; and a two percent (2%) salary increase effective July 1, 2001.
For the school years 2002-2003 and 2003-2004, the parties will meet to negotiate wages and benefits, and each party may submit as many as two (2) additional proposals for bargaining.
17.	A joint Union-Management committee will review the current pay ranges for the purposes of establishing incremental steps and salary schedules for advanced preparation.
8.3 ADVANCED PREPARATION - MASTER’S DEGREE
PLUS 30 HOURS
1.	A candidate who has earned thirty semester hours (or equivalent) or more beyond the Master’s degree at an accredited university at the graduate level will be eligible for salary credit for the Master’s Degree Plus 30 Hours provided the courses taken have been directed toward his/her major field, or in cognate studies designed to increase effectiveness in a present or subsequent assignment and taken after the granting of the Master’s degree.
2.	Candidates must be certain that the cognate studies be a well-balanced program. Duplicate courses, although taken at different universities, will not be allowed.
3.	Eligibility for salary credit for advanced preparation will be determined by the Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel after an application on the form provided for that purpose has been filed. Once eligibility has been determined, procedures for payment will be immediately implemented.
4.	An administrator or supervisor already at Schedule 3 or 4 maximum salary, when he/she receives his/her M.A. + 30, shall receive the full additional payment for advanced preparation in one step in biweekly payments following filing of the evidence of successful completion of the required hours and approval of said hours by the Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel.
5.	For administrators not at maximum salary, additional payment for advanced preparation beyond the Master’s degree shall be made in biweekly payments over a two year period: the first part being paid the first year, and the second part in the second year. The new rate shall be effective with the payroll service period following the filing of evidence of successful completion of the required hours and approval of said hours by the Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel.
An increase of $300.00 will be paid the first part of the first year for 10-month positions ($369.23 for 12-month positions) and $400.00 will be paid the first part of the second year for 10-month positions ($492.31 for 12-month positions). Payment shall commence with the
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)13
payroll service period following the filing of evidence of successful completion of the required hours and approval of said hours by the Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel. It shall not be necessary for the administrator to be at maximum salary in his/her present classification to so qualify.
8.4 DOCTORATE
Administrators/supervisors who have earned a Doctorate degree at an accredited university shall be eligible for an additional salary increase over that for the Master’s Degree Plus Thirty Hours in the amount of $300.00 for 10-month positions ($369.23 for 12-month positions). Payment will be made following filing of the transcript covering the degree and approval by the Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel. This additional salary shall be paid in biweekly payments.
9.0 ADMINISTRATION
9.1	ASSIGNMENTS PRIOR TO OPENING OF SCHOOL
In order to prepare for the opening of school, all 10-month employees will be assigned to work the week immediately prior to the opening of the new school year in order to: review and work on curriculum, preschool enrollment, overall program and organization; identify need for modification of existing programs; plan direction of efforts to improve programs; plan with available school personnel, constellation staff, and community for effective school organization and program; develop, submit to, and discuss with the appropriate administrator a semester plan identifying priority responsibilities and key factors in the discharge of such priority and responsibilities, stating specific objectives toward which resources will be directed and setting criteria for evaluation of the achievement of these objectives; confer with parents, students, and central staff as needed; and orient available staff.
The Board and Union recognize the need for experimentation and innovation in instructional programs and techniques and agree to cooperate in the planning and implementation of pilot programs that will enhance the effectiveness of the delivery of educational services to all students in our schools.
OSAS reaffirms its firm commitment for implementation of plans adopted by the Board such as semester plans, city-wide plans, constellation plans, staff evaluation plans, accountability plans, deployment plans and other plans which are designed to improve the achievement of pupils and the performance of staff. The regularly scheduled weekly teacher meetings will be used, in part, to implement the plans for improvement of achievement of pupils and performance of staff. Agendas for these teacher meetings and other school related activities as assigned will be forwarded to the appropriate administrator for review and discussion with the principal, as necessary.
9.2	ADMINISTRATIVE STAFFING
Elementary schools with a confirmed fourth Wednesday enrollment of not less than 200 and not more than 499 students shall be assigned a school based administrative manager. The Administrative Manager will be paid
14 OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
at the same salary schedule rate as an Assistant Department Head. The position description for the Administrative Manager will require the successful candidate to possess a minimum of a bachelor’s degree with computer and computation/accounting skills.
During the periods when the principal is required to attend meetings out of the school building, the Administrative Manager may be the administrator-in-charge of the building.
9.3	ASSIGNMENTS
1.	When vacancies occur and it has been determined by the Board that the vacancy shall be filled, the Board shall advise OSAS of the same. A position description shall be developed for each new position title and submitted to the Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel for approval, evaluation and recording of wage levels prior to the assigning of an employee to the new position.
2.	When employees are officially assigned to positions represented by OSAS in an acting capacity, appropriate promotional salary adjustments will be implemented in a timely manner.
3.	When a member of the bargaining unit is voluntarily reduced in classification, the employee will be placed at the maximum pay level for the lower pay classification, provided the salary in the higher classification is equal to or higher than the maximum salary for the lower classification.
4.	Replacement of unit personnel shall be made within one year of the date of resignation, termination, retirement or promotion of the individual who is to be replaced. If there are positions the Board does not intend to fill, the OSAS office will be notified within 120 working days.
9.4	SUMMER SCHOOL
The Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel shall assign summer school administrators within the following guidelines:
The summer school administrator shall be available for the full session. Shared administrative assignments are not encouraged, however, when necessary, they shall be coordinated by the appropriate administrative unit with the approval of the Office of Administrative and Instructional Personnel.
9.5	ADULT EDUCATION
A joint committee shall be established to study the organization of administrative personnel in the Adult Education program. The committee will make recommendations to the Chief Executive Officer for any changes determined good for the operation.
9.6	CURRICULUM LEADERS/CURRICULUM
COORDINATORS
Every high school and middle school will have budgeted positions, called Curriculum Leader, based on the following schedule:
||ii
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)15
Enrollment	# of Curriculum Leaders
Under 399	1
400 - 650	2
651-850	3
851-1199	4
1200 +	5
The Curriculum Leader is to provide academic leadership by assisting the organization in the implementation of the district’s instructional program to assure measurable student achievement.
The four (4) core curriculum areas that curriculum leaders must lead are;
•	English
•	Social Studies
•	Mathematics
•	Science
Curriculum Leaders may be required to teach up to three (3) classes per day.
One (1) of those individuals assigned to these four (4) areas will be selected to act as the school’s Curriculum Coordinator.
The responsibilities of the Curriculum Coordinator will include, but not be limited to the following:
•	Perform as full-time administrator without instructional responsibilities.
•	Observe and evaluate teachers.
•	Organize school professional development activities.
•	Analyze and report student data.
•	Organize programs to support student achievement (e.g. tutorials, internships, etc.).
•	Make recommendations to teachers for instructional interventions based on student data.
•	Work at the direction of the principal.
The designation of being a Curriculum Coordinator at each school will be for one (1) academic year.
At the conclusion of that year, the designation of Curriculum Coordinator may be extended for an additional year, or another Curriculum Coordinator may be selected from the other Curriculum Leaders.
The position of Curriculum Coordinator is not a classification that can be applied for or bumped into.
Work historically performed by persons who held the job title of Curriculum/Administrative Unit Head or Department Head at either a middle school or a high school may not be performed by a person, other than a Principal or Assistant Principal, who is not a member of the bargaining Unit represented by the Union.
16
OSAS Locai 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
10.0 HOURS OF WORK
In order to attain ultimate efficiency in the operation of the Detroit Public Schools and to provide the best possible educational program to the pupils served thereby, it is essential for administrative and supervisory personnel to work a schedule that reasonably permits the flexibility necessary for the^achievement of such goals. Such a schedule may, at times, involve work in and out of the school building and, at times, frequently outside the regular school day. The professional discretion of good administrators and supervisors in scheduling their hours of work shall be respected insofar as such discretion is reasonable and is consistent with the school program and the afore stated aims. Professional discretion may be denied for good and sufficient reason. It is understood that this provision does not preclude the setting of hours by the District or the Chief Executive Officer when necessary, and is not intended to supersede the requirements of any leave policy. In instances where the Chief Executive Officer or Administrative Heads have established regular work hours, prior approval for any deviation by administrators and supervisors is required.
11.0 1966-67 ADJUSTMENT OF SCHOOL YEAR
An administrator or supervisor employed for the full 1966-67 school year has been credited with an additional day’s pay based upon his/her 1966-67 salary for each day actually worked during the 40th week of the 1966-67 school year. This money is payable to such persons in a lump sum upon separation from the system.
12.0 LEAVE POLICY
12.1	PERSONAL BUSINESS LEAVE DAYS
1.	The present provisions per Administrative Handbook, Teachers’ Bulletin No. 4, Sick Leave Provisions, pages G31, G32, G33, allowing five (5) days per year for specified non-illness emergency absence shall continue in effect, along with the policy permitting two (2) of these five (5) days to be used for personal business which does not fall into presently designated categories but which cannot be conducted at any time not in conflict with the normal school working day.
2.	For leave in case of death:
a.	Included in immediate family membership: husband, wife, children, father, mother, father-in-law, mother in-law, grandfather, grandmother, brothers, sisters, and any other relative or non-relative living and making his/her home in the household of the employee.
b.	The working days allowed must be consecutive scheduled working days:
(1)	If employee works on day of death: the days allowed do not include day of death but begin with the first scheduled working day immediately following the day of death.
(2)	If day of death is a scheduled workday and employee does not work on that day: the days allowed begin with and include the day of death.
(3)	If day of death is not a scheduled workday or occurs during vacation periods: the days allowed are those scheduled work-
fli
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)17
ing days (or actual working days following vacation period) which fall within seven consecutive calendar days including day of death.
3.	An administrator may be granted up to five (5) service leave days within a seven calendar day period for his/her own wedding. This entitlement shall include the wedding day and days subsequent.
12.2	SICK LEAVE
1.	Sick leave shall accumulate in a single bank at the rate of .6818 (10-month 22 pays) for 10-month employees and .6538 (12-month 26 pays) per year for 12-month employees, with a limit of 200 days. This will be effective for current employees beginning July 1999.
2.	When an employee’s sick leave bank has reached the current allowable maximum, as set forth in this Agreement, there shall be established a “Catastrophe Bank” into which all days over the maximum shall be placed. When an employee has used all days accumulated in his/her sick bank for an illness/disability extending more than six months, he/she may then draw from the “Catastrophe Bank” to the extent he/she has made contribution to said bank. (The Employer may require medical evidence of the illness/disability.) Administrators/Supervisors will be provided an annual update on the number of days in their catastrophe bank.
3.	An administrator who has exhausted his/her sick bank may, in case of extended illness, borrow up to ten (10) days against future leave. These days will be deducted at the beginning of the following school year. Any administrator who terminates his/her employment shall repay the school system the amount owed for sick leave days advanced under this policy.
4.	Employee absences from school-related assault resulting in physical injury only shall not be charged against sick leave, although the employee’s regular gross earnings shall be maintained. The maintenance of regular gross earnings, termed “assault pay,” is subject to the following provisions:
a.	The Report of Industrial Injury shall be filled with the Principal within five (5) business days of the incident giving rise to the claim or no later than five (5) workdays after the claimant first sought medical treatment for the claimed injury.
b.	The employee must file for Workers’ Compensation benefits when eligible, no later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date given rise to the assault claim.
c.	When the employee presents medical documentation that they are unable to return to work then, or for the foreseeable future, and are seeking benefits under this article, they will be notified by the School District of the City of Detroit that they must file no later than five (5) business days for MPSERS retirement (disability).
d.	When the employee presents medical documentation that they are unable to return to work then, or for the foreseeable future, and are seeking benefits under this article, they will be notified by the School District of the City of Detroit that they must file no later ' than five (5) business for social security benefits (disability).
18
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
e.	Failure of a unit member to apply for such benefits, within the time limits, shall disqualify the unit member from receiving further benefits under this section.
f.	Failure of a unit member to notify the School District of the City of Detroit of the result of applying for these benefits, acceptance or denial, within five (5) business days from the date the result was received^ by the unit member shall also result in immediate disqualification from further receipt of assault pay.
Offset
If the weekly Workers’ Compensation and/or Social Security disability benefits are awarded or paid voluntarily by the employer, said amounts shall be deducted from an employee’s assault pay.
Benefit Termination or Limitation
A.	If retirement is granted through MPSERS (regular or disability), entitlement to assault pay shall terminate even if the employee continues to receive weekly Workers’ Compensation benefits.
B.	If the employee rejects the report of the specialist and pursues a Workers’ Compensation claim any recovery shall be Workers’ Compensation benefits only. The employee shall not receive assault pay benefits.
5.	The sick leave bank of administrators employed in schools shall not be charged for necessary absences of up to five (5) days resulting from the following childhood diseases: chicken pox, measles, mumps, diarrhea, whooping cough, impetigo, pink eye (conjunctivitis). The statement of a licensed physician shall be required as proof of the cause of such absence.
6.	An employee not able to return to work following eight (8) consecutive days of absence for personal illness must have a medical examination by the District’s medical examiner and present Form 431. Return to employment: physician’s certificate, completed by his/her own physician before returning to his/her assignment. This regulation also applies to illness absences in June, regardless of whether they extend into September. If procedures are followed, delays in scheduling the medical examination shall not be charged to the employee’s sick bank.
7.	The decision of the Medical Office in this article is binding, except that if an employee is not satisfied with the decision of the District’s Medical Office, as to his/her ability or inability to work, the employee must appeal the decision of the Medical Office within three (3) business days from the receipt of the medical report under the following conditions:
a.	A person who disputes a decision regarding his or her right to sick leave, assault pay or other benefits granted by this article will notify the Medical Office of the dispute and explain the reasons why the person believes they are entitled to benefits.
b.	The Medical Office will notify the person and the Union if the Office continues to disagree with the person.
c.	The Union and the Medical Office will jointly select a physician or other expert licensed to practice in the State of Michigan, to resolve the dispute.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)19
d.	The fees of the expert will be divided equally between the Medical Office and the person requesting the review.
e.	The person will cooperate fully with any examination(s) required by the expert. The failure of the person to cooperate will be a basis for denial of the person’s request for benefits.
f.	The expert will furnish the Union and the Medical Office a report as promptly as circumstances permit, but no later than twenty (20) business days from the date the examiner has received sufficient information to make a decision providing the expert’s opinion regarding the person’s right to benefits under this article.
g.	The decision of the expert is binding on the Medical Office (and, thereby the District and the Chief Executive Officer), the person making the request for benefits, and the Union.
8.	After eight (8) consecutive workdays of sick leave, an employee must furnish a statement from his/her physician on Form 432, Release Paycheck: Physician’s Certificate, in order to secure his/her next paycheck.
9.	The Department of Human Resources may require a medical examination by the district’s Medical Screening Office, whenever there is reasonable cause to question the maintenance of health standards of an employee in a school or department.
12.3	VACATION DAYS
Twelve (12) month employees shall receive twenty-five (25) days of vacation each fiscal year (July 1 - June 30).
12.4	EMERGENCY WEATHER CONDITIONS - 10-MONTHS
1.	Scheduled days of student attendance that are canceled because of conditions not within the control of authorities shall be rescheduled when the district is unable to meet the state mandatory requirements.
2.	When the canceled days become less than the State requirement for student attendance, 10-month employees shall not be compensated for mentioned days. Such days will be rescheduled with employees being paid the pay period following.
3.	Rescheduling of days shall not affect annual salary, compensation or other benefits provided within this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
12.5	OTHER LEAVES AND BENEFITS
1.	Request for approved absence without pay for reason of personal business shall not require detailed information as to reason for request. Such information is to be entirely voluntary.
2.	An administrator who serves in the Peace Corps shall be entitled to experience credit for Peace Corps teaching.
3.	OSAS personnel on professional leave shall be placed, at the expiration of such leave, in a position comparable to the position held at the time the professional leave was granted. The individual shall be returned at the salary step level comparable to the time the leave was granted.
4.	The estate of an administrator who dies during the term of this Agreement shall receive terminal pay calculated on the same basis as if he/she had retired.
20 OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
5.	All employees, who as of June 30 in any year, have completed 15 or more years of service as full-time employees of the Detroit school system (and are on the payroll November 1) shall receive $950 added pay. For every year of recorded 975 hours of work as a former certified hourly adult education teacher, administrators shall receive one (1) year of service credit for longevity eligibility.
This shall be paid as a lump sum each December on a special payroll.
6.	The Board and the Union recognize the value of having administrators and supervisors participate in staff development and attend appropriate conferences at the local, state and national levels. Members are to submit requests to their immediate supervisors on a form provided by the Board to attend appropriate conferences with pay.
7.	All unit members whose primary assignment is housed in Schools Center Building or Schools Center Annex shall receive $360 annual parking allowance. The parking allowance will be paid July 1 following 180 days of service in these buildings.
13.0 INSURANCE
13.1	DESIGNATED HOSPITALS
In case of a compensable injury, a unit employee may receive necessary medical, surgical and/or hospital care at any of the officially designated hospitals, without cost to the employee.
13.2	HOSPITAL-MEDICAL SURGICAL OPTIONS
Hospital-Medical-Surgical insurance benefits are provided as follows:
Semi-private room, 365 days of coverage, 45 days of coverage for TB, nervous and mental conditions, dependent children coverage through age 25, medical surgical care, no member’s liability on radiological therapy, x-rays, EKG’s, and laboratory tests, and Master Medical $50 deductible with 80-20 co-pay as described by Blue Cross-Blue Shield of Michigan or a comparable program.
13.3	HOSPITAL-MEDICAL-SURGICAL INSURANCE OPTIONS
A regular unit employee may elect to apply for the hospital medical-surgical insurance subsidy for himself/herself and dependents to coverage under Blue Cross-Blue Shield of Michigan, Health Alliance Plan (HAP), Michigan HMO Plan, Comprehensive Health Services of Detroit (CHSD), and TOTAL Health Care. Ilie Board shall pay the increased costs to maintain the present fully subsidized health insurance program for all unit employees of record as of February 23,1993. Employees must apply for coverage within sixty (60) days of initial employment or during open enrollment periods.
All non-emergency hospital admissions will be pre-authorized by the health care administrator. Length of stay will also be predetermined and monitored for those hospital admissions that are approved. Hospital stay can be extended where medically necessary.
Effective February 24,1993, all new hires will be required to pay ten percent (10%) of the premium for health insurance.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
21
Effective the beginning of the 1994-95 school year, all new hires will receive HMO coverage for the first two (2) years of employment for health coverage.
A preferred provider organization plan (PPO) for prescription drugs and laboratory testing shall be implemented prior to March 1, 1993, for those members who have selected Blue Cross-Blue Shield. HMOs will not be included, unless it can be shown that there is a cost savings involved.
Prior to implementation, the Board and the Union will meet no later than February 15, 1993, to review the Board-approved PPO plan.
The Board-approved plan must project cost savings while not reducing benefits to OSAS members.
13.4	OPT-OUT PLAN
Employees who are covered by a health care plan offered by an employer other than the Board of Education and can establish proof of such coverage, who do not elect to take hospitalization-medical coverage offered by the Board, may each enrollment year at the time of the enrollment period, opt-out from Board coverage and for said enrollment year receive a $1,200 payment from the Board as payment in full. Once an employee opts out for a given year, the employee will not be able to receive the Board’s coverage until the next enrollment period, unless the employee loses his/her eligibility for the alternate coverage. If the employee returns to the Board’s coverage under the conditions just stated, the employee shall pay back, prorated, the said $1,200 payment provided herein. The $1,200 will be paid for each enrollment year that the employee elects to opt out under this provision.
13.5	DENTAL-OPTICAL INSURANCE OPTION
1.	Effective July 1, 1981, the Board shall provide fully subsidized dental insurance for members and their families in addition to fully subsidized health insurance. The dental program level of benefits shall be as described in the Comprehensive Dental Expense plan of Delta Dental Insurance Company or a comparable program. If a husband and wife are both regular Board employees, insurance coverage will be subsidized only on the basis of one employee carrying full family dental insurance.
2.	There shall be no duplication of individual benefits for a husband and wife who are both regular Board employees.
3.	The annual maximum per eligible member for Class I and Class II benefits shall be increased to $1,500, effective January 1, 2000.
4.	Effective upon mutual ratification of the contract, the Board shall provide a comprehensive full-family vision care program to all full-time salaried members of this bargaining unit.
13.6	LIFE INSURANCE
1.	For the duration of this Agreement, the Board shall underwrite the cost of a group life insurance policy for all unit employees in the amount of $20,000 per employee.
22
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
2.	The Board’s obligation to make premium payments on behalf of an employee will terminate upon the termination of active employment of the insured employee. However, a retired employee may continue coverage in a uniform amount, not to exceed $20,000, by making selfpayment of the entire premium (to the life insurance carrier) for such coverage. This coverage is contingent on the Board being able to obtain such insurance from a carrier.
3.	Premium Waiver Clause to apply to disabilities. The insurance coverage shall terminate on the individual’s date of retirement.
4.	For the duration of this Agreement, the Detroit Public Schools shall continue to contribute the same subsidy it presently contributed toward the cost of supplemental group life insurance.
5.	The Board shall pay the costs to maintain the present $20,000 life insurance program through 1994.
6.	The Board shall provide $350.00 life insurance for employees who have retired.
13.7	FRINGE BENEFITS—GENERAL
1.	In the event changes and/or additions are made to fringe benefits granted to regular employees in the DFT bargaining unit during the life of this contract, such changes and/or additions shall be made concurrently in fringe benefits granted to this unit.
2.	The Board agrees to provide a $3.00 co-pay prescription drug rider effective February 24, 1981.
3.	For each school year, the mileage rate shall reflect the rate that is used by the IRS for tax purposes. All unit members who are directed to use their own vehicles during regular working hours will qualify for mileage reimbursement.
4.	Upon retirement with a retirement allowance in accordance with the qualifications established by the Michigan School Employees’ Retirement System - School District of the City of Detroit, an employee will be paid an amount not to exceed one-half his/her unused Sick Leave days, with a maximum allowance of 35 days pay.
14.0 PROPERTY
14.1	CARE OF SCHOOL PROPERTY
Administrators will be expected to provide normal care of school instructional equipment. However, they shall not be required to do major repair or replacement work on equipment or property.
14.2	PERSONAL PROPERTY LOSSES
A fund in the amount of $2,000 shall be established from which individual administrators may be reimbursed for approved claims in an amount not to exceed $100 for personal property loss due to theft, burning, or willful or malicious damage. Personal property is defined as anything normally worn or carried into the building by the administrator or supervisor, but shall not include cash. All claims shall be submitted promptly and shall be considered at the close of the school year. A determination shall be made regarding the amount to be paid on each claim. In making a determination, the extent to which the claimant has been reimbursed from other sources for said loss shall be considered.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
23
15.0 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A sincere attempt shall be made to resolve differences by oral conference between the grievant or grievants or the Union and the principal for employees regularly assigned to schools or the applicable unit head for employees not regularly assigned to schools, before the difference becomes formalized as a grievance. If an issue cannot be resolved informally, it shall be settled in accordance with the following procedures:
Step 1
Complaints, grievances, or disputes arising out of the violation and/or interpretation of this Agreement shall be presented in writing to the Princi-pal/Appropriate Administrative Unit Head or his representative within ten (10) working days from the time that the event took place or within ten (10) working days of the date it is reasonable to assume that the employee or Union first became aware of the conditions giving rise to the grievance.
Upon receipt of the grievance, the principal or the applicable unit head shall arrange for a conference within five (5) working days after receipt of the grievance.
The grievant may be heard personally and may request representation by the Union. The Union will be afforded the opportunity to be present at any grievance hearing.
The principal or the applicable unit head shall render a decision and communicate it in writing to each grievant, the Union, and the DPS Office of Labor Contract Management within five (5) working days after the completion of the conference.
Note: If the Step 1 grievance complains about the principal, the Executive Director for Accountability assigned to that school shall take receipt of the step 1 grievance, conduct a hearing for it, and render a decision on it following the same timelines as otherwise stipulated.
Step 2 - Appeal to Chief Executive Officer
Within fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the decision of the principal or the applicable unit head, the Union may appeal to the Chief Executive Officer (through the Office of Labor Contract Management) the decision rendered by the principal or the applicable unit head. The appeal shall be in writing and shall set forth specifically the act, condition, and the grounds on which the appeal is based and shall include a copy of the grievance and all decisions rendered. A copy of the appeal shall be sent to the principal or the applicable unit head.
The Chief Executive Officer or his/her designated representative shall meet with the parties concerned within fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the appeal request. Within fifteen (15) working days after the conference, the Chief Executive Officer shall render a written decision that shall be forwarded to the Union, and the principal or the applicable unit head.
Step 3 - Arbitration
If a grievance is not satisfactorily settled at Step 2, the Union may, within twenty (20) working days file for arbitration under the Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association, in accordance with the following:
24
OS AS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
a.	In writing, submit to the other party a Demand for Arbitration of any grievance under this Agreement. If the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator within seven (7) working days of notice to arbitrate, the party demanding arbitration shall refer the matter to the American Arbitration Association, which shall submit a list to the parties for the selection of an arbitrator. The arbitrator, the Union, or the Employer may call any person as a witness in any arbitration hearing. Each party shall be responsible for the expenses of the witnesses it may call. The arbitrator shall not have jurisdiction to add to, subtract from, or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or any written amendments hereof, or to specify the terms of a new Agreement, or to substitute at his discretion for that of any of the parties hereto. The parties shall share the per diem fees and the expenses of the arbitrator equally. The arbitrator shall render his decision in writing not later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the close of the arbitration hearing. The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding upon all employees, the Employer and the Union.
b.	The parties may agree to meet further to consider fairly, and in good faith, any other method of settlement that might be mutually agreed upon, including mediation.
Procedures for Grievances Not Under the Jurisdiction of the Principal or Applicable Unit Head
The Union shall submit any such grievance in writing to the Chief Executive Officer through the Office of Labor Contract Management within fifteen (15) working days following the act or condition that is the basis for the grievance.
The Chief Executive Officer, or his/her designated representative, shall meet with the concerned parties within fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the grievance. The Chief Executive Officer shall render a written decision that shall be forwarded to the Union. The decision of the Chief Executive Officer may be appealed to arbitration under the provisions of Step 3 above.
General Grievance Powers
If the Union fails to abide by any timeline or deadline contained in this section, the grievance shall be considered resolved. Timelines or deadlines may be waived or extended only by the mutual agreement of the parties.
The resolution of all grievances shall be in accordance with the procedures, which are a part of this Agreement. If the grievant fails to appear at a scheduled grievance conference without prior notice, the grievance hearing may proceed, at the Union’s request, without the grievant.
The attendance or presence at any grievance conference of any person who is not a party to the grievance, a necessary witness, a necessary administrative staff member, or a Union representative, shall not be permitted.
All grievances shall be processed confidentially. Neither party shall reveal information nor make any statement concerning the grievance to any person not a party to the grievance while the grievance is being processed.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
25
16.0 LEGAL ASSISTANCE
In the event a Complaint and Summons is lodged against an administrator who is named as defendant for actions taken by him/her in his/her representative capacity as an administrator for the Board, the Board shall, upon request, provide legal assistance and/or representation if necessary, through its Legal Affairs Office or other designated counsel, provided that: 1. A copy of the Complaint and Summons is transmitted to the Office of Legal Affairs within five (5) working days of service upon the defendant administrator together with a covering letter from the OSAS President or his designee requesting legal assistance.
2.	Pursuant to Board investigation and determination, the administrator(s) named was acting consistent with and within the scope of his/her proper administrative duties and responsibilities and within his/her official representative capacity as a Board administrator.
3.	Pursuant to Board investigation and determination, such administrator has acted in full accord with Board policy in carrying out functions that give rise to the legal action.
4.	There has been no illegality or criminality on the part of the administrator.
The provision of legal advice and/or representation herein shall not apply to any administrator who, in his/her individual capacity, engages in actions outside the scope of his/her authorized duties. Such decision shall be promptly conveyed to OSAS.
16.1 COMPLAINT OR CHARGES
When complaints or charges against an administrator are made, the administrator shall be given full information with respect thereto. If the administrator is required to answer said complaint or charge in either an administrative or Board proceeding, he/she shall have the right to be represented by OSAS at every step of said proceeding.
17.0 EMPOWERMENT/SCHOOL-BASED MANAGEMENT
The Board of Education and the Organization of School Administrators and Supervisors (OSAS) agree to work toward restructuring our school district so that local schools have greater autonomy in the educational decision-making process. To achieve that goal, a committee representing the Board, DFT and OSAS will jointly establish guidelines for the development of school-based management programs in schools where administrators and teachers agree to participate. School based planning teams at each school location will have OSAS representation. Empowered schools may seek waivers of Board policy, contractual language and state or federal guidelines in order to implement programs that meet school level needs. The joint committee will receive and come to consensus on waiver requests of district policy, contractual language and state or federal guidelines.
The joint committee will make recommendations regarding policy changes to the Board of Education and requests for waivers of contractual language to OSAS. Waivers granted by the OSAS executive board will be for one year at a time.
During the pilot phase of the empowered school projects, transfer requests of administrative staff that do not wish to participate will be considered.
26 OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
These administrators will be given top priority for transfers. Administrative staff who request transfers from empowered schools will participate in the projects until such transfers are granted. This language does not replace any current OSAS contractual language.
17.1 EMPOWERMENT ADDENDUM 1992-94
The Union and the Board are committed to creating empowered schools that assure maximum choice and success for students, parents and all employees.
The parties will work together toward the goal of empowerment of 45 schools during the 1992-93 school year.
The June 5,1990 Memorandum of Understanding, Empowerment/Schools of Choice, will continue in effect with the parties agreeing to cooperate in the implementation of empowerment provisions negotiated in the Board/DFT 1992-94 Agreement.
18.0 SECURITY PERSONNEL: SPECIAL PROVISIONS
The basic contract applies with the following exceptions:
1.	Effective July 1, 1981, members of the Security personnel shall accrue vacation at a rate to equal 20 days at the end of the year.
2.	Effective July 1, 1982, members of the Security personnel shall accrue vacation at a rate to equal 25 days at the end of the year.
3.	Vacation will be granted at such times during the year as are suitable, considering both the wishes of the employee, the employee’s seniority and the efficient operations of the Security Department.
4.	Vacations will be taken in a period of consecutive days. Vacations may be split into one or more full weeks, provided such schedule does not unreasonably interfere with the operations of the division. Once vacation schedules have been finalized by the employer on the basis of individual requests (as per days accrued), no vacation shall be canceled within a period of less than ten (10) working days. In the event of an emergency, however, the employer may postpone an employee’s vacation. Said employees shall be granted vacation thereafter at the earliest opportunity.
5.	All rules and directives issued by the current Chief of Security dealing with the duties and responsibilities of all security personnel will continue in effect unless modified or revised by the Chief of Security or his/her superiors.
6.	Assignments and hours of operation will be as designated by the Chief of Security or his/her superiors. In any event, assignments and hours of operation will be designated to meet the needs of the Board.
7.	The Board will pay $300.00 per year to each unit employee as uniform allowance that shall include maintenance and cleaning of same.
8.	Security Supervisors required to work beyond the normal eighty hour biweekly period shall be granted straight compensatory time or receive a rate of pay in the amount of one and one-half (1 ?2) times their regular rate at the Board’s discretion. Supervisors working on Board paid holidays shall receive a rate of pay one and one-half (1 ?2) times their regular rate, plus their regular pay.
9.	All other benefits shall apply as described in the basic contract.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	27
19.0 GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTANTS, ANALYSTS, AUDITORS AND PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANTS
All GAAA classifications will be subject to all provisions of this collective bargaining agreement.
20.0 GENERAL
The School District of the City of Detroit reserves all rights and powers conferred upon it by the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan and the United States. In addition, the School District of the City of Detroit reserves the right to govern and manage the District in all respects, except as to limitations on the right to govern and manage that are specifically set forth in this Agreement. Subject to the District’s duty to bargain, all District policies and procedures of which the Union has notice and which do not conflict with the Collective Bargaining Agreement are part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. A temporary policy may be promulgated in emergency situations in which prior notification is not feasible.
The parties will meet periodically to identify those practices which conflict with the Collective Bargaining Agreement and/or District policy. Only practices identified and agreed to may be relied upon as a defense for purposes of grievances or arbitrations.
This agreement is subject in all respects to the laws of the State of Michigan with respect to the powers, rights, duties and obligations of the District, the Union, and employees in the bargaining unit, and in the event that any provisions of this Agreement shall at any time be held to be contrary to law by a final judgment or decree from a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be void and inoperative; however, all other provisions of this Agreement shall continue in effect.
21.0 DURATION
The Agreement shall be in effect for the period of July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2004.
28
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
j
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
between
THE SCHOOL DISTRICT OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
and
THE ORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS AND SUPERVISORS
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)29
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
PILOT PROGRAM - SPECIAL EDUCATION/BILINGUAL EDUCATION
For the 1999-2000 school year, any elementary, middle or high school with a minimum of nine (9) or more Special Education classes and a total Special Education population of 100 or more students will be assigned a .5 Department Head which will not be counted inside the Unit Head/Depart-ment Head allocation.
For the 1999-2000 school year, the position of 1.0 Bilingual Unit Head/Department Head will be established in middle and high schools with 150 or more eligible students.
30 QSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Beginning with the 1999-2000 school year, high schools that qualify will be entitled to the position of Attendance Coordinator to be compensated at the current Assistant Department Head rate. The allocation of these positions will be as follows:
Less than 799 FTE = 0.5
More than 800 FTE = 1.0
All employees currently working as Department Head, Attendance Department will be grandfathered for wages, even though their title may change.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
31
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
RECONSTITUTION OF STAFFS
When a school is determined to be unaccredited (by Michigan Department of Education guidelines) the Chief Executive Officer has the authority to close and reconstitute a school. When such an action takes place, future assignments will be made consistent with relevant contract language.
32 OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Agreement Between Detroit Board of Education and Detroit Federation of Teachers: Article Xll, Section C
In the event the Agreement between the Board and the Union representing instructional employees is amended to restrict the return of administrators to its unit, the employment by the Board of any OSAS member affected by such restriction will not be terminated by application of Section 6.3 of this Agreement.
Dated this 14th day of March, 1985.
Aaron Gordon, President O.S.A.S.
George Kimbrough
Office of Labor Affairs
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
33
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
October 1, 1986-September 30, 1988
(OSAS) SELF-FUNDED HEALTH CARE PROGRAM
1.	Blue Cross/Blue Shield shall be awarded a two-year contract effective October 1,1986 to administer the Board’s self-funded employee health care program.
2.	There shall be no change in benefits, coverage, or procedures under the self-funded plan administered by Blue Cross/Blue Shield.
3.	The Board will maintain aggregate stop-loss insurance, when cost justified, to cover excess medical claims liability.
|	4. Individual health records shall be confidential.
I	5. HMO plans will continue to be a health care option for eligible
employees.
6.	The following employer-paid health benefit termination rules appear under the conditions cited:
a.	Employees who are eligible for health benefits at the end of the school year, including those on layoff, shall continue to receive coverage until October 5.
b.	Employees on layoff prior to the end of the school year shall receive benefits until the end of the first policy month that is at least 31 days following the last date paid.
c.	Employees who resign shall continue to receive benefits until the end of the first policy month that is at least 31 days following the last date paid.
d.	Employees who retire shall receive benefits until the day preceding the effective date of retirement.
e.	Employees on approved unpaid leaves of absences shall receive benefits until the day preceding the effective date of the leave of absence.
7.	A Joint Board-Union Health Benefits Review Committee shall be established. The committee shall be charged with, at minimum, monitor-\ ing program utilization, costs, effectiveness and stop-loss coverage based on information supplied by the program administrator or other | mutually approved resources.
The committee will meet quarterly, and report its findings and make recommendations to the Chief Executive Officer and Union presidents. After two years, the parties will review the feasibility of continuing the self-funded health program.
8.	The Union contract language, as currently written, will remain during the two-year life of the Agreement unless otherwise negotiated by the parties.
9.	Employees, upon separation, shall have the same right to conversion to an individual policy as provided under group insurance plans (in addition to COBRA rights).
34 OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
DETROIT BOARD OF EDUCATION
S/ GEORGE KIMBROUGH
SZ CLEMENT S. SUTTON
ORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS AND
SUPERVISORS (O.S.A.S.)
S/AARON GORDON Date: 4/21/87
■
I
I
I

OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)35
Letter of Understanding
Redesigning Low Performing Schools Date: January 18, 2001
By their representatives’ signatures below, the parties herein make a commitment to the principles of Redesigning Low Performing Schools.
A joint committee shall be formed by a date certain to discuss the implementation of Redesigning Low Performing Schools.
All agreements reached by the parties will be effective from that date.
For the Union:
S/Diann Woodard
For the School District of the
City of Detroit:
S/Charles L. Wells III
OS AS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
36
Letter of Understanding
Accreditation of Schools

Date: January 18, 2001
Pursuant to Article 17.1 of the 1994-97 collective bargaining agreement between the School District of the City of Detroit and the Organization of School Administrators and Supervisors, the School District of the City of Detroit and the Union agree as follows:
1.	In light of the extraordinary circumstances occasioned by Section 1280 of the revised School Code, MCLA 380.1280, relating to accreditation of schools by the Department of Education (“Department”), after:
a.	a school has been declared unaccredited by the Department for two consecutive years, or
b.	a school fails to meet district performance indices and attendance targets for two (2) consecutive years and reasonable supplemental services and programs have been provided by the school district to the school, its students, their parents and the school staff, and
c.	after consideration of other reasonable alternatives,
the Chief Executive Officer may close the school and declare all positions vacant.
2.	Positions in the reconstituted school shall be filled according to regular procedures for filling vacancies.
3.	Subject to Section 6.3.(1), Releases, and the Tenure Act, any administrator who is relieved from a reconstituted school may apply for any vacancy for which he/she is qualified (including the reconstituted school), either administrative or instructional.
If such an administrator is not placed prior to the next school year, he/she will be reassigned pursuant to Section 6.3.(1), Releases, of the OS AS Agreement.
For the Union:
S/Diann Woodard
For the School District of the
City of Detroit:
S/Charles L. Wells III
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)37
Letter of Understanding
Student Code of Conduct
Date: January 18, 2001
A stronger Student Code of Conduct will be developed by the District after consultation by a committee that includes representatives from the Organization of School Administrators and Supervisors.
For the School District of the
For the Union:	City of Detroit:
S/Diann Woodard	S/Charles L. Wells III
38
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
Letter of Understanding
Review of Health Care Benefits
Date: January 18, 2001
By their representatives’ signatures below, the parties agree to review all health care benefits currently offered to the unit members.
A Joint Union-Management Committee of all signatories, including a third party consultant, who specializes in the area of employee benefits, shall be formed by a date to be agreed to by the Parties during the 1999-2000 school year. The third party consultant shall serve in an advisory capacity only. The joint committee shall only reach agreement on the specification of benefits. The benefits specified are to be equivalent in coverage and benefits presently offered to the unit members.
If the signatories cannot agree on the specified benefits, each party will present its proposal to a third party arbitrator who will be limited to the selection of the Union proposal or the District proposal.
Once the benefit package is defined, it will be bid by the District following its normal purchasing guidelines.
For the Union:
S/Diann Woodard
For the School District of the
City of Detroit:
S/Charles L. Wells III
I
I
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
39
Letter of Understanding
Direct Deposit of Paychecks
Date: January 18, 2001
The parties will meet to discuss the process for direct deposit of paychecks to local banking institutions and frequency of paychecks.
For the Union:
S/Diann Woodard
For the School District of the
City of Detroit:
S/Charles L. Wells III
40
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
Letter of Understanding
Annual Increment Steps
Date: January 18, 2001
By their representatives’ signatures below, the parties agree to clarify the effective date of annual increment steps as indicated below.
No unit member’s progress along the increment steps will be negatively impacted as a result of this change.
Effective July 1,2000 annual increment steps will be processed twice annually, on January 1 and July 1, according to the schedule identified below.
Employees with the most recent effective date of:
July 1, 2000 -September 30, 2000 October 1, 2000 - March 31, 2001
April 1,2001-June 30, 2001
July 1, 2001
January 1, 2002
July 1, 2002
For the Union:
S/Diann Woodard
For the School District of the
City of Detroit:
S/Charles L. Wells III
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
41
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE SCHOOL DISTRICT OF THE CITY OF DETROIT
SZ W. FRANK FOUNTAIN
Chairman
SZ GERALD K. SMITH, Ed.D. Secretary
SZ GLENDA D. PRICE
Treasurer
SZ NELIDA BRAVO
SZ MARVIS COHELD
SZ REGINALD TURNER
SZ KENNETH S. BURNLEY, Ed.D.
Chief Executive Officer
SZ CHARLES L. WELLS HI, ESQ.
Executive Director, Labor Affairs
THE ORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL ADMINISTRATORS AND SUPERVISORS
SZ DIANN WOODARD
President
SZ ELYSA ROBINSON Secretary
SZ PATRICIA HORTON
Treasurer
Executive Board Members
SZ YOLANDA HERBERT
SZ SAUNDRA HOWARD MCGEE
SZ LILLIE JACKSON
SZ LARRY LATIMORE
SZ ATLAS LEE, SR.
SZ MARION MCGHEE-ROZIER
SZ FREDDIE NEAL
SZ RONNIE PHILLIPS
SZ DAHIA IBO SHABAKA
See Salary Schedules for specific pay classifications and rates of pay.

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
				Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment
1000 1000 1000	010 010 010	Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	227.782	293.955	13.618 230.964	297.136	13.618 232.327	298.500	13.618	2,277.82	2,939.55	136.18 2,309.64	2,971.36	136.18 2,323.27	2,985.00	136.18	50,112	6*4,670	2,996 50,812	65,370	2,996 51,112	65,670	2,996
C060 C060 C060		Admin Mgr / Attend Coord Admin Mgr / Attend Coord Admin Mgr/Attend Coord	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	218.382	286.245	13.618 221.564	289.427	13.618 222.927	290.791	13.618	2,183.82	2,862.45	136.18 2,215.64	2,894.27	136.18 2,229.27	2,907.91	136.18	48,044	62,974	2,996 48,744	63,674	2,996 49,044	63,974	2,996
1450 1450 1450	119 119 119	Coordinator Coordinator Coordinator	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	238.032	303.800	13.618 241.214	306.982	13.618 242.577	308.345	13.618	2,380.32	3,038.00	136.18 2,412.14	3,069.82	136.18 2,425.77	3,083.45	136.18	52.367	66,836	2,996 53,067	67,536	2,996 53,367	67,836	2,996
1550 1550 1550	072 072 072	Curricular Leader Curricular Leader Curricular Leader	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	240.018	308.632	13.618 243.200	311.814	13.618 244.564	313.177	13.618	2,400.18	3,086.32	136.18 2,432.00	3,118.14	136.18 2,445.64	3,131.77	136.18	52,804	67,899	2,996 53,504	68,599	2,996 53,804	68,899	2,996
		Curriculum Coordinator	Masters	Step 1	246.609 Step 2	270.755 Step 3	294.900 Step 4	319.041	Step 1	2,466.09 Step 2	2,707.55 Step 3	2,949.00 Step 4	3,190.41	Step 1	54,254 Step 2	59,566 Step 3	64,878 Step 4	70,189
		Curriculum Coordinator	Masters + 30	Step 1	249.791 Step 2	273.936 Step 3	298.082 Step 4	322.223	Step 1	2,497.91 Step 2	2,739.36 Step 3	2,980.82 Step 4	3,222.23	Step 1	54,954 Step 2	60,266 Step 3	65,578 Step 4	70,889
		Curriculum Coordinator	Doctorate	Stepl	251.155 Step 2	275.300 Step 3	299.445 Step 4	323.586	Stepl	2,511.55 Step 2	2,753.00 Step 3	2,994.45 Step 4	3,235.86	Step 1	55,254 Step 2	60,566 Step 3	65,878 Step 4	71,189
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
0 Absences: $300
1-2 Absences: $200
3-4 Absences: $150
*** Only Curriculum Leaders are eligible for Attendance Bonus.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
Pay Class	Position			Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
Code	Code	Description	Degree	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment
1560	070	Curriculum Leader	Masters	Step 1	234.864 Step 2	257.859 Step 3	280.855 Step 4	303.845	Step 1	2,348.64 Step 2	2,578.59 Step 3	2,808.55 Step 4	3,038.45	Stepl	51,670 Step 2	56,729 Step 3	61,788 Step 4	66,846
1560	070	Curriculum Leader	Masters + 30	Step 1	238.045 Step 2	261.041 Step 3	284.036 Step 4	307.027	Step 1	2,380.45 Step 2	2,610.41 Step 3	2,840.36 Step 4	3,070.27	Step 1	52,370 Step 2	57,429 Step 3	62,488 Step 4	67,546
1560	070	Curriculum Leader	Doctorate	Step 1	239.409 Step 2	262.405 Step 3	285.400 Step 4	308.391	Step 1	2,394.09 Step 2	2,624.05 Step 3	2,854.00 Step 4	3,083.91	Step 1	52,670 Step 2	57,729 Step 3	62,788 Step 4	67,846
1570 1570 1570	080 080 080	Dept. Head, Asst. Dept. Head, Asst. Dept. Head, Asst.	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	218.382	286.245	13.618 221.564	289.427	13.618 222.927	290.791	13.618	2,183.82	2,862.45	136.18 2,215.64	2,894.27	136.18 2,229.27	2,907.91	136.18	48,044	62,974	2,996 48,744	63,674	2,996 49 044	63 974	2 996
1580 1580 1580	271 271 271	Diagnostician, Reading Diagnostician, Reading Diagnostician, Reading	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	230.282	299.086	13.618 233.464	302.268	13.618 234.827	303.632	13.618	2,302.82	2,990.86	136.18 2,334.64	3,022.68	136.18 2,348.27	3,036.32	136.18	50,662	65,799	2,996 51,362	66,499	2,996 51,662	66,799	2,996
1890 1890 1890	092 092 092	Director Voc’l Tech. Ctr. Director Voc’l Tech. Ctr. Director Voc’l Tech. Ctr.	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	334.105	398.241	13.618 337.286	401.423	13.618 338.650	402.786	13.618	3,341.05	3,982.41	136.18 3,372.86	4,014.23	136.18 3,386.50	4,027.86	136.18	73,503	87,613	2,996 74,203	88,313	2,996 74,503	88,613	2,996
1480		Elementary Staff Coordinator	Masters	Step 1	234.864 Step 2	257.859 Step 3	280.855 Step 4	303.845	Step 1	2,348.64 Step 2	2,578.59 Step 3	2,808.55 Step 4	3,038.45	Stepl	51,670 Step 2	56,729 Step 3	61,788 Step 4	66,846
BONUSES: > 15 years experience: $950	3-4 Absences: $150 0 Absences: $300	*** Only Curriculum Leaders are 1-2 Absences: $200	eligible for Attendance Bonus.						
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	43________OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
"' ............................
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates			Biweekly Rates			Annual Rates		
				Minimum	Maximum	Increment	Minimum	Maximum I	Increment	Minimum	Maximum	Increment
1480		Elementary Staff Coordinator	Masters + 30	Step 1	238.045		Step 1	2,380.45		Step 1	52,370	
				Step 2	261.041		Step 2	2,610.41		Step 2	57,429	
				Step 3	284.036		Step 3	2,840.36		Step 3	62,488	
				Step 4	307.027		Step 4	3,070.27		Step 4	"67,546	
1480		Elementary Staff Coordinator	Doctorate	Step 1	239.409		Step 1	2,394.09		Step 1	53,670	
				Step 2	262.405		Step 2	3,624.05		Step 2	57,729	
				Step 3	285.400		Step 3	2,854.00		Step 3	62,788	
				Step 4	308.391		Step 4	3,083.91		Step 4	67,846	
0050	522	Head Teacher, Com’l Foods	Masters	209.050	275.109	13.618	2,090.50	2,751.09	136.18	45,991	60,524	2,996
0050	522	Head Teacher, Com’l Foods	Masters + 30	212.232	278.291	13.618	2,122.32	2,782.91	136.18	46,691	61,224	2,996
0050	522	Head Teacher, Com’l Foods	Doctorate	213.595	279.655	13.618	2,135.95	2,796.55	136.18	46,991	61,524	2,996
1900	102	Principal — Secondary	Masters	334.105	398.241	13.618	3,341.05	3,982.41	136.18	73,503	87,613	2,996
1900	102	Principal — Secondary	Masters + 30	337.286	401.423	13.618	3,372.86	4,014.23	136.18	74,203	88,313	2,996
1900	102	Principal — Secondary	Doctorate	338.650	402.786	13.618	3,386.50	4,027.86	136.18	74,503	88,613	2,996
1910	220	Principal — Elementary	Masters	304.745	370.345	13.618	3,047.45	3,703.45	136.18	67,044	81,476	2,996
1910	220	Principal — Elementary	Masters + 30	307.927	373.527	13.618	3,079.27	3,735.27	136.18	67,744	82,176	2,996
1910	220	Principal — Elementary	Doctorate	309.291	374.891	13.618	3,092.91	3,748.91	136.18	68,044	82,476	2,996
1920	222	Principal — Level B	Masters	304.745	370.345	13.618	3,047.45	3,703.45	136.18	67,044	81,476	2,996
1920	222	Principal — Level B	Masters + 30	307.927	373.527	13.618	3,079.27	3,735.27	136.18	67,744	82,176	2,996
1920	222	Principal — Level B		Doctorate	309.291	374.891	13.618	3,092.91	3,748.91	136.18	68,044	82,476	2,996
1800	180	Principal — Level C	Masters	270.618	340.514	13.618	2,706.18	3,405.14	136.18	59,536	74,913	2,996
1800 1800	180	Principal — Level C	Masters + 30	273.800	343.695	13.618	2,738.00	3,436.95	136.18	60,236	75,613	2,996
	180	Principal — Level C		Doctorate	275.164	345.059	13.618	2,751.64	3,450.59	136.18	60,536	75,913	2,996
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
0 Absences: $300
1-2 Absences: $200
3-4 Absences: $150
*** Only Curriculum Leaders are eligible for Attendance Bonus.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% inert
Pay Class	Position			Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
Code	Code	Description	Degree	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment
1810 1810 1810	241 241 241	Principal — Level D Principal — Level D Principal — Level D	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	259.236	328.732	13.618 262.418	331.914	13.618 263.782	333.277	13.618	2,592.36	3,287.32	136.18 2,624.18	3,319.14	136.18 2,637.82	3,332.77	136.18	57,032	72,321	2,996 57,732	73,021	2,996 58,032	73,321	2,996
1940 1940 1940	122 122 122	Principal, Asst. Secondary Principal, Asst. Secondary Principal, Asst. Secondary	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	279.205	346.423	13.618 282.386	349.605	13.618 283.750	350.968	13.618	2,792.05	3,464.23	136.18 2,823.86	3,496.05	136.18 2,837.50	3,509.68	136.18	61,425	76,213	2,996 62,125	76,913	2,996 62,425	77,213	2,996
1950 1950 1950	230 230 230	Principal, Asst. Elementary Principal, Asst. Elementary Principal, Asst. Elementary	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	245.623	315.114	13.618 248.805	318.295	13.618 250.168	319.659	13.618	2,456.23	3,151.14	136.18 2,488.05	3,182.95	136.18 2,501.68	3,196.59	136.18	54,037	69,325	2,996 54,737	70,025	2,996 55,037	70,325	2,996
1960 1960 1960	232 232 232	Principal, Asst. Level B Principal, Asst. Level B Principal, Asst. Level B	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	245.623	315.114	13.618 248.805	318.295	13.618 250.168	319.659	13.618	2,456.23	3,151.14	136.18 2,488.05	3,182.95	136.18 2,501.68	3,196.59	136.18	54,037	69,325	2,996 54,737	70,025	2,996 55,037	70,325	2,996
2280	321	Specialist, School for Deaf	Masters	Step 1	234.864 Step 2	257.859 Step 3	280.855 Step 4	303.845	Step 1	2,348.64 Step 2	2,578.59 Step 3	2,808.55 Step 4	3,038.45	Step 1	51,670 Step 2	56,729 Step 3	61,788 Step 4	66,846
2280	321	Specialist, School for Deaf	Masters + 30	Step 1	238.045 Step 2	261.041 Step 3	284.036 Step 4	307.027	Step 1	2,380.45 Step 2	2,610.41 Step 3	2,840.36 Step 4	3,070.27	Step 1	52,370 Step 2	57,429 Step 3	62,488 Step 4	67,546
2280	321	Specialist, School for Deaf	Doctorate	Step 1	239.409 Step 2	262.405 Step 3	285.400 Step 4	308.391	Step 1	2,394.09 Step 2	2,624.05 Step 3	2,854.00 Step 4	3,083.91	Step 1	52,670 Step 2	57,729 Step 3	62,788 Step 4	67,846
> 15 years experience: $950
0 Absences: $300
1-2 Absences: $200
3-4 Absences: $150
*** Only Curriculum Leaders are eligible for Attendance Bonus.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	45____OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
Pay Class	Position	rjitcuv	V JU1J Degree	Daily Rates Minimum Maximum Increment	Biweekly Rates Minimum Maximum Increment	Annual Rates Minimum Maximum Increment Ri A9R 76 913	2 996
Code 2380 2380 2380	Code 370 370 370	Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	279.205	346.423	13.618 282.386	349.605	13.618 283.750	350.968	13.618	2 792.05	3,464.23	136.18 2,823.86	3,496.05	136.18 2,837.50	3,509.68	136.18	62,125	76,913	2,996 62.425	77,213	2,996
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees — Extended Work Assignments Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
			Daily Rates
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree Minimum Maximum
7160	101	Admin Asst., Extended Work	227.782 293.955	13.618
7090	030	Coordinator, Extended Work	238.032 303.800	13.618
7140	070	Curriculum Leader, Ext. Work	Step 1	234.864 Step 2	257.859 Step 3	280.855 Step 4	303.845
7000	102 I	Principal — Sec., Ext. Work	334.105 398.241	13.618
7010	220	Principal — Elem., Ext. Work		304.745 370.345	13.618
7210	122	Prine., Asst. — Sec., Ext. Work	279.205 346.423	13.618
7020	230	Prine., Asst. — Elem., Ext. Work	245.623 315.114	13.618
7030	370	Supervisor, Extended Work	279.205 346.423	13.618
BONUSES:
>	15 years experience: $950
0 Absences: $300
1-2 Absences: $200
3-4 Absences: $150
*** Only Curriculum Leaders are eligible for Attendance Bonus.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 52 Week Employees Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates			Biweekiy Rates			Annual Rates		
				Minimum	Maximum	Increment	Minimum	Maximum I	Increment	Minimum	Maximum	Increment
1320	117	Accountant		144.484	222.965	7.468	1,444.84	2,229.65	74.68	37,669	58,130	1,947
1320	117	Accountant	Masters + 30	147.790	226.271	7.468	1,477.90	2,262.71	74.68	38,531	58,992	1,947
1320	117	Accountant	Doctorate	149.206	227.686	7.468	1,492.06	2,276.86	74.68	38,900	59,361	1,947
1020	106	Accountant, Principal		245.031	262.192	10.053	2,450.31	2,621.92	100.53	63.883	68,357	2,621
1020	106	Accountant, Principal	Masters + 30	248.337	265.498	10.053	2,483.37	2,654.98	100.53	64,745	69,219	2,621
1020	106	Accountant, Principal	Doctorate	249.753	266.913	10.053	2,497.53	2,669.13	100.53	65,114	69,588	2,621
1330	118	Auditor		144,484	222.965	7.468	1,444.84	2,229.65	74.68	37,669	58,130	1,947
1330	118	Auditor	Masters + 30	147.790	226.271	7.468	1,477.90	2,262.71	74.68	38,531	58,992	1,947
1330	118	Auditor	Doctorate	149.206	227.686	7.468	1,492.06	2,276.86	74.68	38,900	59,361	1,947
1030	114	Auditor, Principal		245.031	262.192	10.053	2,450.31	2.621.92	100.53	63,883	68,357	2,621
1030	114	Auditor, Principal	Masters + 30	248.337	265.498	10.053	2,483.37	2,654.98	100.53	64,745	69,219	2,621
1030	114	Auditor, Principal	Doctorate	249.753	266.913	10.053	2,497.53	2,669.13	100.53	65,114	69,588	2,621
1340	119	Budget Analyst		144.484	222.965	7.468	1,444.84	2,229.65	74.68	37,669	58,130	1,947
1340	119	Budget Analyst	Masters + 30	147.790	226.271	7.468	1,477.90	2,262.71	74.68	38,531	58,992	1,947
1340	119	Budget Analyst	Doctorate	149.206	227.686	7.468	1,492.06	2,276.86	74.68	38,900	59,361	1,947
6260	067	Chief of Security, Assistant		176.661	203.012	13.233	1,766.61	2,030.12	132.33	46,058	52,928	3,450
6260	067	Chief of Security, Assistant	Masters + 30	179.967	206.318	13.233	1,799.67	2,063.18	132.33	46,920	53,790	3,450
6260	067	Chief of Security, Assistant	Doctorate	181.383	207.733	13.233	1,813.83	2,077.33	132.33	47,289	54,159	3,450
1140	066	Chief of Security, Deputy		247.175	314.195	13.233	2,471.75	3,141.95	132.33	64,442	81,915	3,450
1140	066	Chief of Security, Deputy	Masters + 30	250.481	317.501	13.233	2,504.81	3,175.01	132.33	65,304	82,777	3,450
1140	066	Chief of Security, Deputy	Doctorate	251.897	318.917	13.233	2,518.97	3,189.17	132.33	65,673	83,146	3,450
1590	090	Director		306.558	370.302	13.233	3,065.58	3,703.02	132.33	79,924	96,543	3,450
1590	090	Director	Masters + 30	309.864	373.609	13.233	3,098.64	3,736.09	132.33	80,786	97,405	3,450
1590	090	Director	Doctorate	311.280	375.024	13.233	3,112.80	3,750.24	132.33	81,155	97,774	3,450
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950	*** ALL POSITIONS REQUIRE AT LEAST A
Parking Allowance: $360	BACHELOR’S DEGREE EXCEPT NAVAL JROTC
Uniform Allowance: $300	DEPT HEAD AND PROGRAM ASSOCIATE II.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	47________OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
iwiiilillilll^^	.........ij
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
oo
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 52 Week Employees Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
				Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment
6270 6270 6270	068 068 068	Field Supervisor (Security) Field Supervisor (Security) Field Supervisor (Security)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	162.251	176.661	13.233 165.557	179.967	13.233 166.972	181.383	13.233	1,622.51	1,766.61	132.33 1,655.57	1,799.67	132.33 1,669.72	1,813.83	132.33	42,301	46,058	3,450 43,163	46,920	3,450 43,532	.47,289	3,450
2550 2550 2550	410 410 410	Head Teacher, Apprentice Head Teacher, Apprentice Head Teacher, Apprentice	Masters + 30 Doctorate	210.798	278.236	13.233 214.104	281.542	13.233 215.520	282.958	13.233	2,107.98	2,782.36	132.33 2,141.04	2,815.42	132.33 2,155.20	2,829.58	132.33	54,958	72,540	3,450 55,820	73,402	3,450 56,189	73,771	3,450
6310 6310 6310	409 409 409	Investigator Investigator Investigator	Masters + 30 Doctorate	162.251	176.661	13.233 165.557	179.967	13.233 166.972	181.383	13.233	1,622.51	1,766.61	132.33 1,655.57	1,799.67	132.33 1,669.72	1,813.83	132.33	42,301	46,058	3,450 43,163	46,920	3,450 43,532	47,289	3,450
2040	079	Naval JROTC Dept. Head		255.069 255.069	2,550.69 2,550.69	66,500	66,500
C030 C030 C030	023 & 024 023 & 024 023 & 024	Program Associate I Program Associate I Program Associate I	Masters + 30 Doctorate	226.708	293.759	13.233 230.014	297.065	13.233 231.430	298.480	13.233	2,267.08	2,937.59	132.33 2,300.14	2,970.65	132.33 2,314.30	2,984.80	132.33	59,106	76,587	3,450 59,968	77,449	3,450 60,337	77,818	3,450
1060 1060 1060	011 011 011	Prg. Assoc. I (Admin. Asst.) Prg. Assoc. I (Admin. Asst.) Prg. Assoc. I (Admin. Asst.)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	247.175	314.195	13.233 250.481	317.501	13.233 251.897	318.917	13.233	2,471.75	3,141.95	132.33 2,504.81	3,175.01	132.33 2,518.97	3,189.17	132.33	64,442	81,915	3,450 65,304	82,777	3,450 65,673	83,146	3,450
1470 1470 1470	029 029 029	Prg. Assoc. I (Equal Employ. Opp.) Prg. Assoc. I (Equal Employ. Opp.) Prg. Assoc. I (Equal Employ. Opp.)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	247.175	314.195	13.233 250.481	317.501	13.233 251.897	318.917	13.233	2,471.75	3,141.95	132.33 2,504.81	3,175.01	132.33 2,518.97	3,189.17	132.33	64,442	81,915	3,450 65,304	82,777	3,450 65,673	83,146	3,450
1490 1490 1490	039 039 039	Prg. Assoc. I (Field Coord. School Comm.) Prg. Assoc. I (Field Coord. School Comm.) Prg. Assoc. I (Field Coord. School Comm.)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	239.791	306.397	13.233 243.098	309.703	13.233 244.513	311.119	13.233	2,397.91	3,063.97	132.33 2,430.98	3,097.03	132.33 2,445.13	3,111.19	132.33	62,517	79,882	3,450 63,379	80,744	3,450 63,748	81,113	3,450
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
Parking Allowance: $360
Uniform Allowance: $300
*** ALL POSITIONS REQUIRE AT LEAST A BACHELOR’S DEGREE EXCEPT NAVAL JROTC DEPT. HEAD AND PROGRAM ASSOCIATE II.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS OSAS Salary Schedule C for 52 Week Employees Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates				Biweekly Rates			Annual Rates		
				Minimum	Maximum	Increment	Minimum	Maximum	Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment		
2070 2070	290 290	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Assistant)		234.372	301.415	13.233	2,343.72	3,014.15	132.33	61,104	78,583	3,450 3,450 3,450
		Prg. Assoc. I (Research Assistant)	Masters + 30	237.678	304.721	13.233	2,376.78	3,047.21	132.33	61’,966 62,335	79^445 79,814	
2070	290	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Assistant)	Doctorate	239.093	306.136	13.233	2,390.93	3,061.36	132.33			
2060 2060	291 291	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Associate)		247.175	314.195	13.233	2,471.75	3,141.95	132.33	64,442	81,915	3,450
		Prg. Assoc. I (Research Associate)	Masters + 30	250.481	317.501	13.233	2,504.81	3,175.01	132.33	65,304 65,673	82777 83,146	3^450 3,450
2060	291	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Associate)	Doctorate	251.897	318.917	13.233	2,518.97	3,189.17	132.33			
2300 2300	038	Prg. Assoc. I (Sr. Cntrct. Rei. Spec.)		232.861	295.086	13.233	2,328.61	2,950.86	132.33	60,710	76,933	3,450
	038	Prg. Assoc. I (Sr. Cntrct. ReL Spec.)	Masters + 30	236.167	298.392	13.233	2,361.67	2,983.92	132.33	61,572 61,941	77795 78,164	3^450 3,450
2300	038	Prg. Assoc. I (Sr. Cntrct. ReL Spec.)	Doctorate	237.582	299.807	13.233	2,375.82	2,998.07	132.33			
C040 C040	671 & 676 671 & 676	Program Associate II	< Masters	153.766	245.752	13.233	1,537.66	2,457.52	132.33	40,089	64,071 65,911 66,773 67,142	3,450 3,450 3,450 3,450
		Program Associate II	Masters	161.357	252.810	13.233	1,613.57	2,528.10	132.33	42,068		
C040	671 & 676	Program Associate II	Masters + 30	164.663	256.116	13.233	1,646.63	2,561.16	132.33 132.33	42,930 43,299		
C040	671 & 676	Program Associate II	Doctorate	166.079	257.531	13.233	1,660.79	2,575.31				
C020 C020	063 & 078 063 & 078	Program Supervisor		275.390	341.113	13.233	2,753.90	3,411.13	132.33	71,798	88,933	3,450
		Program Supervisor	Masters + 30	278.696	344.420	13.233	2,786.96	3,444.20	132.33	72,660 73,029	89795 90,164	3,450 3,450
C020	063 & 078	Program Supervisor	Doctorate	280.112	345.835	13.233	2,801.12	3,458.35	132.33			
C010 C010	371	Program Supervisor (12 Months)		282.724	350.791	13.233	2,827.24	3,507.91	132.33	73,710	91,456 92,318 92,687	3,450 3,450 3,450
	371	Program Supervisor (12 Months)	Masters + 30	286.030	354.097	13.233	2,860.30	3,540.97	132.33	74,572 74,941		
C010	371	Program Supervisor (12 Months)	Doctorate	287.445	355.512	13.233	2,874.45	3,555.12	132.33			
1500 1500	184 184	Unit Head Acting Emerg.		306.558	306.558		3,065.58	3,065.58		79,924 80,786 81,155	79,924 80,786 81,155	
		Unit Head Acting Emerg.	Masters + 30	309.864	309.864		3,098.64	3,098.64				
1500	184	Unit Head Acting Emerig.	Doctorate	311.280	311.280	-	3,112.80	3,112.80	-			-
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
Parking Allowance: $360
Uniform Allowance: $300
*** ALL POSITIONS REQUIRE AT LEAST A BACHELOR’S DEGREE EXCEPT NAVAL JROTC DEPT. HEAD AND PROGRAM ASSOCIATE II.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	49_______OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
O1
o
OSAS Salary Schedule C for Adult Education Employees Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Class	Hourly
8990	030	Coordinator — Alternate Position		25.20
0570	102	Principal	A	20.76
			B	20.18
			C	19.61
			D	19.03
			E	18.45
			F	17.87
			G	17.29
			H	16.71
0460	102	Principal (Special Projects Funded)	A	29.98
			B	29.15
			C	28.33
			D	27.48
			E	26.65
			F	25.80
			G	24.98
			H	24.13
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS OSAS Salary Schedule C for Workshops Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
Description	Hourly
Consultant / Director	40.24
Participant	21.14
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for Athletic Events — Supervisory Duties Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
cn
Description	Stipend
Athletic Events — Supervisory Duties	3,900
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule L for Adult Education / Summer School Employees Related for Salary Rate Purposes to Salary Schedule C Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Hourly	Daily
0520	070	Dept. Head, Adult Education	26.96	
7580	070	Dept. Head, Summer School	29.96	
2400	370	Supervisor — Adult Education	29.86	
7490	372	Supervisor — Summer School	30.12	
7710	370	Supervisor — Summer School	30.12	120.48
O cn > CD
o
00
co
t';v' ---------- --- '
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C (Hourly) for Summer School Employees Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
UI
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Class	Hourly
7770	102	Principal (Board Funded)	A B C D	38.80 35.05 31.73 27.96
7760	102	Principal (Federally Funded)	A B C D	38.80 35.05 31.73 27.96
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for Before/After School Programs Effective July 1,1999 through June 30,2000 (3% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Hourly
E060	3221	Principal — Additional Work	27.96
E070	3221	Principal, Asst. — Additional Work	27.96
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
				Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment
1000 1000 1000	010 010 010	Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	232.341	299.836	13.891 235.523	303.018	13.891 236.886	304.382	13.891	2,323.41	2,998.36	138.91 2,355.23	3,030.18	138.91 2,368.86	3,043.82	138.91	51,115	65,964	3,056 51,815	66,664	3,056 52,115	66,964	3,056
C060 C060 C060		Admin Mgr / Attend Coord Admin Mgr/Attend Coord Admin Mgr/Attend Coord	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	222.750	291.973	13.891 225.932	295.155	13.891 227.295	296.518	13.891	2,227.50	2,919.73	138.91 2,259.32	2,951.55	138.91 2,272.95	2,965.18	138.91	49,005	64,234	3,056 49,705	64,934	3,056 50,005	65,234	3,056
1450 1450 1450	119 119 119	Coordinator Coordinator Coordinator	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	242.795	309.877	13.891 245.977	313.059	13.891 247.341	314.423	13.891	2,427.95	3,098.77	138.91 2,459.77	3,130.59	138.91 2,473.41	3,144.23	138.91	53,415	68,173	3,056 54,115	68,873	3,056 54,415	69,173	3,056
1550 1550 1550	072 072 072	Curricular Leader Curricular Leader Curricular Leader	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	244.823	314.805	13.891 248.005	317.986	13.891 249.368	319.350	13.891	2,448.23	3,148.05	138.91 2,480.05	3,179.86	138.91 2,493.68	3,193.50	138.91	53,861	69,257	3,056 54,561	69,957	3,056 54,861	70,257	3,056
		Curriculum Coordinator	Masters	Stepl	251.545 Step 2	276.173 Step 3	300.800 Step 4	325.423	Stepl	2,515.45 Step 2	2,761.73 Step 3	3,008.00 Step 4	3,254.23	Step 1	55,340 Step 2	60,758 Step 3	66,176 Step 4	71,593
		Curriculum Coordinator	Masters + 30	Step 1	254.727 Step 2	279.355 Step 3	303.982 Step 4	328.605	Step 1	2,547.27 Step 2	2,793.55 Step 3	3,039.82 Step 4	3,286.05	Step 1	56,040 Step 2	61,458 Step 3	66,876 Step 4	72,293
		Curriculum Coordinator	Doctorate	Step 1	256.091 Step 2	280.718 Step 3	305.345 Step 4	329.968	Step 1	2,560.91 Step 2	2,807.18 Step 3	3,053.45 Step 4	3,299.68	Step 1	56,340 Step 2	61,758 Step 3	67,176 Step 4	72,593
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
0 Absences: $300
1-2 Absences: $200
3-4 Absences: $150
*** Only Curriculum Leaders are eligible for Attendance Bonus.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	53________OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)


DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
				Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment
1560	070	Curriculum Leader	Masters	Step 1	239.564 Step 2	263.018 Step 3	286.473 Step 4	309.923	Step 1	2,395.64 Step 2	2,630.18 Step 3	2,864.73 Step 4	3,099.23	Step 1	52,704 Step 2	57,864 Step 3	63,024 Step 4	68,183
1560	070	Curriculum Leader	Masters + 30	Step 1	242.745 Step 2	266.200 Step 3	289.655 Step 4	313.105	Step 1	2,427.45 Step 2	2,662.00 Step 3	2,896.55 Step 4	3,131.05	Step 1	53,404 Step 2	58,564 Step 3	63,724 Step 4	68,883
1560	070	Curriculum Leader	Doctorate	Stepl	244.109 Step 2	267.564 Step 3	291.018 Step 4	314.468	Stepl	2,441.09 Step 2	2,675.64 Step 3	2,910.18 Step 4	3,144.68	Step 1	53,704 Step 2	58,864 Step 3	64,024 Step 4	69,183
1570 1570 1570	080 080 080	Dept. Head, Asst. Dept. Head, Asst. Dept. Head, Asst.	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	222.750	291.973	13.891 225.932	295.155	13.891 227.295	296.518	13.891	2,227.50	2,919.73	138.91 2,259.32	2,951.55	138.91 2,272.95	2,965.18	138.91	49,005	64,234	3,056 49,705	64,934	3,056 50,005	65,234	3,056
1580 1580 1580	271 271 271	Diagnostician, Reading Diagnostician, Reading Diagnostician, Reading	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	234.891	305.068	13.891 238.073	308.250	13.891 239.436	309.614	13.891	2,348.91	3,050.68	138.91 3,380.73	3,082.50	138.91 2,394.36	3,096.14	138.91	51,676	67,115	3,056 52,376	67,815	3,056 52,676	68,115	3,056
1890 1890 1890	092 092 092	Director Voc’l Tech. Ctr. Director Voc’l Tech. Ctr. Director Voc’l Tech. Ctr.	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	340.791	406.209	13.891 343,973	409.391	13.891 345.336	410.755	13.891	3,407.91	4,062.09	138.91 3,439.73	4,093.91	138.91 3,453.36	4,107.55	138.91	74,974	89,366	3,056 75,674	90,066	3,056 75,974	90,366	3,056
1480		Elementary Staff Coordinator	Masters	Step 1	239.564 Step 2	263.018 Step 3	286.473 Step 4	309.923	Step 1	2,395.64 Step 2	2,630.18 Step 3	2,864.73 Step 4	3,099.23	Step 1	52,704 Step 2	57,864 Step 3	63,024 Step 4	68,183
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
0 Absences: $300
1-2 Absences: $200
3-4 Absences: $150
*** Only Curriculum Leaders are eligible for Attendance Bonus.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
				Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment
1480		Elementary Staff Coordinator	Masters + 30	Step 1	242.745 Step 2	266.200 Step 3	289.655 Step 4	313.105	Step 1	2,427.45 Step 2	2,662.00 Step 3	2,896.55 Step 4	3,131.05	Step 1	53,404 Step 2	58,564 Step 3	63,724 Step 4	68,883
1480		Elementary Staff Coordinator	Doctorate	Stepl	244.109 Step 2	267.564 Step 3	291.018 Step 4	314.468	Step 1	2,441.09 Step 2	2,675.64 Step 3	2,910.18 Step 4	3,144.68	Step 1	53,704 Step 2	58,864 Step 3	64,024 Step 4	69,183
0050 0050 0050	522 522 522	Head Teacher, Com’l Foods Head Teacher, Com’l Foods Head Teacher, Com’l Foods	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	213.232	280.614	13.891 216.414	283.795	13.891 217.777	285.159	13.891	2,132.32	2,806.14	138.91 2,164.14	2,837.95	138.91 2,177.77	2,851.59	138.91	46,911	61,735	3,056 47,611	62,435	3,056 47,911	62,735	3,056
2280	321	Specialist, School for Deaf	Masters	Step 1	239.564 Step 2	263.018 Step 3	286.473 Step 4	309.923	Step 1	2,395.64 Step 2	2,630.18 Step 3	2,864.73 Step 4	3,099.23	Step 1	52,704 Step 2	57,864 Step 3	63,024 Step 4	68,183
2280	321	Specialist, School for Deaf	Masters + 30	Step 1	242.745 Step 2	266.200 Step 3	289.655 Step 4	313.105	Step 1	2,427.45 Step 2	2,662.00 Step 3	2,896.55 Step 4	3,131.05	Step 1	53,404 Step 2	58,564 Step 3	63,724 Step 4	68,883
2280	321	Specialist, School for Deaf	Doctorate	Stepl	244.109 Step 2	267.564 Step 3	291.018 Step 4	314.468	Stepl	2,441.09 Step 2	2,675.64 Step 3	2,910.18 Step 4	3,144.68	Step 1	53,704 Step 2	58,864 Step 3	64,024 Step 4	69,183
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950	3-4 Absences: $150
0 Absences: $300	*** Only Curriculum Leaders are
1-2 Absences: $200	eligible for Attendance Bonus.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	55________OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
Ul o>
Pay Class	Position	Description	Degree	Daily Rates Minimum Maximum Increment	Biweekly Rates Minimum Maximum Increment	Annual Rates Minimum Maximum Increment
2380 2380 2380	370 370 370	Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	284.791	353.355	13.891 287.973	356.536	13.891 289.336	357.900	13.891	2,847.91	3,533.55	138.91 2,879.73	3,565.36	138.91 2,893.36	3,579.00	138.91	62,654	/ / ,/3b	3,uoo 63,354	78,438	3,056 63,654	78,738	3,056
*** Principals werg moved to Bargaining Unit X, and Assistant Principals were moved to Bargaining Unit L.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees — Extended Work Assignments Effective July 1,2000 through June 30|, 2001 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Daily Rates Degree Minimum Maximum
7160	101	Admin Asst., Extended Work	232.341	299.836	13.891
7090	030	Coordinator, Extended Work	242.795 309.877	13.891
7140	070	Curriculum Leader, Ext. Work	Step 1	239.564 Step 2	263.018 Step 3	286.473 Step 4	309.923
7030	370	Supervisor, Extended Work	284.791	353.355	13.891
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
0 Absences: $300
1-2 Absences: $200
3-4 Absences: $150
** Only Curriculum Leaders are eligible for Attendance Bonus.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 52 Week Employees Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates			Biweekly Rates			Annual Rates		
				Minimum	Maximum	Increment	Minimum	Maximum I	Increment	Minimum	Maximum	Increment
1320	117	Accountant		147.376	227.425	7.618	1,473.76	2,274.25	76.18	38,423	59,293	1,986
1320	117	Accountant	Masters + 30	150.682	230.732	7.618	1,506.82	2,307.32	76.18	39,285	60,155	1,986
1320	117	Accountant	Doctorate	152.098	232.147	7.618	1,520.98	2,321.47	76.18	39,654	60,524	1,986
1020	106	Accountant, Principal		249.933	267.439	10.256	2,499.33	2,674.39	102.56	65,161	69,725	2,674
1020	106	Accountant, Principal	Masters + 30	253.239	270.745	10.256	2,532.39	7,707.45	102.56	66,023	70,587	2,674
1020	106	Accountant, Principal	Doctorate	254.655	272.160	10.256	2,546.55	2,721.60	102.56	66,392	70,956	2,674
1330	118	Auditor		147.376	227.425	7.618	1,473.76	2,274.25	76.18	38,423	59,293	1,986
1330	118	Auditor	Masters + 30	150.682	230.732	7.618	1,506.82	2,307.32	76.18	39,285	60,155	1,986
1330	118	Auditor	Doctorate	152.098	232.147	7.618	1,520.98	2,321.47	76.18	39,654	60,524	1,986
1030	114	Auditor, Principal		249.933	267.439	10.256	2,499.33	2,674.39	102.56	65,161	69,725	2,674
1030	114	Auditor, Principal	Masters + 30	253.239	270.745	10.256	2,532.39	2,707.45	102.56	66,023	70,587	2,674
1030	114	Auditor, Principal	Doctorate	254.655	272.160	10.256	2,546.55	2,721.60	102.56	66,392	70,956	2,674
1340	119	Budget Analyst		147.376	227.425	7.618	1,473.76	2,274.25	76.18	38,423	59,293	1,986
1340	119	Budget Analyst	Masters + 30	150.682	230.732	7.618	1,506.82	2,307.32	76.18	39,285	60,155	1,986
1340	119	Budget Analyst	Doctorate	152.098	232.147	7.618	1,520.98	2,321.47	76.18	39,654	60,524	1,986
6260	067	Chief of Security, Assistant		180.197	207.074	13.498	1,801.97	2,070.74	134.98	46,980	53,987	3,519
6260	067	Chief of Security, Assistant	Masters + 30	183.504	210.380	13.498	1,835.04	2,103.80	134.98	47,842	54,849	3,519
6260	067	Chief of Security, Assistant	Doctorate	184.919	211.795	13.498	1,849.19	2,117.95	134.98	48,211	55,218	3,519
1140	066	Chief of Security, Deputy		252.119	320.481	13.498	2,521.19	3,204.81	134.98	65,731	83,554	3,519
1140	066	Chief of Security, Deputy	Masters + 30	255.425	323.788	13.498	2,554.25	3,237.88	134.98	66,593	84,416	3,519
1140	066	Chief of Security, Deputy	Doctorate	256.841	325.203	13.498	2,568.41	3,252.03	134.98	66,962	84,785	3,519
1590	090	Director		312.691	377.709	13.498	3,126.91	3,777.09	134.98	81,523	98,474	3,519
1590	090	Director	Masters + 30	315.998	381.015	13.498	3,159.98	3,810.15	134.98	82.385	99,336	3,519
1590	090	Director	Doctorate	317.413	382.431	13.498	3,174.13	3,824.31	134.98	82,754	99,705	3,519
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950	*** ALL POSITIONS REQUIRE AT LEAST A
Parking Allowance: $360	BACHELOR’S DEGREE EXCEPT NAVAL JROTC
Uniform Allowance: $300	DEPT HEAD AND PROGRAM ASSOCIATE II.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	57________OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
-----------------------.--- —____--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_„„____. ----, .
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 52 Week Employees Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
				Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment
6270 6270 6270	068 068 068	Field Supervisor (Security) Field Supervisor (Security) Field Supervisor (Security)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	165.499	180.197	13.498 168.806	183.504	13,498 170.221	184.919	13.498	1,654.99	1,801.97	134.98 1,688.06	1,835.04	134.98 1,702.21	1,849.19	134.98	43,148	46,980	3,519 44,010	47,842	3,519 44,379	48,211	3,519
2550 2550 2550	410 410 410	Head Teacher, Apprentice Head Teacher, Apprentice Head Teacher, Apprentice	Masters + 30 Doctorate	215.017	283.801	13.498 218.324	287.108	13.498 219.739	288.523	13.498	2,150.17	2,838.01	134.98 2,183.24	2,871.08	134.98 2,197.39	2,885.23	134.98	56,058	73,991	3,519 56,920	74,853	3,519 57,289	75,222	3,519
6310 6310 6310	409 409 409	Investigator Investigator Investigator	Masters + 30 Doctorate	165.499	180.197	13.498 168.806	183.504	13.498 170.221	184.919	13,498	1,654.99	1,801.97	134.98 1,688.06	1,835.04	134.98 1,702.21	1,849.19	134.98	43,148	46,980	3,519 44,010	47,842	3,519 44,379	48,211	3,519
2040	079	Naval JROTC Dept. Head		260.170 260.170	2,601.70 2,601.70	67,830	67,830
C030 C030 C030	023 & 024 023 & 024 023 & 024	Program Associate I Program Associate I Program Associate I	Masters + 30 Doctorate	231.246	299.635	13.498 234.552	302.941	13.498 235.967	304.356	13.498	2,312.46	2,996.35	134.98 2,345.52	3,029.41	134.98 2,359.67	3,043.56	134.98	60,289	78,119	3,519 61,151	78,981	3,519 61,520	79,350	3,519
1060 1060 1060	011 011 011	Prg. Assoc. I (Admin. Asst.) Prg. Assoc. I (Admin. Asst.) Prg. Assoc. I (Admin. Asst.)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	252.119	320.481	13.498 255.425	323.788	13.498 256.841	325.203	13.498	2,521.19	3,204.81	134.98 2,554.25	3,237.88	134.98 2,568.41	3,252.03	134.98	65,731	83,554	3,519 66,593	84,416	3,519 66,962	84,785	3,519
1470 1470 1470	029 029 029	Prg. Assoc. I (Equal Employ. Opp.) Prg. Assoc. I (Equal Employ. Opp.) Prg. Assoc. I (Equal Employ. Opp.)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	252.119	320.481	13.498 255.425	323.788	13.498 256.841	325.203	13.498	2,521.19	3,204.81	134.98 2,554.25	3,237.88	134.98 2,568.41	3,252.03	134.98	65,731	83,554	3,519 66,593	84,416	3,519 66,962	84,785	3,519
1490 1490 1490	039 039 039	Prg. Assoc. I (Field Coord. School Comm.) Prg. Assoc. I (Field Coord. School Comm.) Prg. Assoc. I (Field Coord. School Comm.)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	244.590	312.526	13.498 247.896	315.833	13.498 249.312	317.248	13.498	2,445.90	3,125.26	134.98 2,478.96	3,158.33	134.98 2,493.12	3,172.48	134.98	63,768	81,480	3,529 64,630	82,342	3,519 64,999	82,711	3,519
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
Parking Allowance: $360
Uniform Allowance: $300
*** ALL POSITIONS REQUIRE AT LEAST A BACHELOR’S DEGREE EXCEPT NAVAL JROTC DEPT. HEAD AND PROGRAM ASSOCIATE II.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS OSAS Salary Schedule C for 52 Week Employees Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates			Biweekly Rates			Annual Rates		
				Minimum	Maximum	Increment	Minimum	Maximum	Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment		
2070	290	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Assistant)		239.063	307.444	13.498	2,390.63	3,074.44	134.98	62,327	80,155	3,519
2070	290	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Assistant)	Masters + 30	242.369	310.750	13.498	2,423.69	3,107.50	134.98	63,189	81’017	3’519
2070	290	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Assistant)	Doctorate	243.784	312.166	13.498	2,437.84	3,121.66	134.98	63,558	81,386	3,519
2060	291	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Associate)		252.119	320.481	13.498	2,521.19	3,204.81	134.98	65,731	83,554	3,519
2060	291	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Associate)	Masters + 30	255.425	323.788	13.498	2,554.25	3,237.88	134.98	66,593	84,416	3,519
2060	291	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Associate)	Doctorate	256.841	325.203	13.498	2,568.41	3,252.03	134.98	66,962	84,785	3^519
2300	038	Prg. Assoc. I (Sr. Cntrct. Rel. Spec.)		237.521	300.989	13.498	2,375.21	3,009.89	134.98	61,925	78,472	3,519
2300	038	Prg. Assoc. I (Sr. Cntrct. Rel. Spec.)	Masters + 30	240.827	304.295	13.498	2,408.27	3,042.95	134.98	62,787	79^334	3^519
2300	038	Prg. Assoc. I (Sr. Cntrct. Rel. Spec.)	Doctorate	242.242	305.710	13.498	2,422.42	3,057.10	134.98	63,156	79,703	3,519
C040	671 & 676	Program Associate II	< Masters	156.842	250.669	13.498	1,568.42	2,506.69	134.98	40,891	65,353	3,519
C040	671 & 676	Program Associate II	Masters	164.586	257.869	13.498	1,645.86	2,578.69	134.98	42,910	67,230	3,519
C040	671 & 676	Program Associate II	Masters + 30	167.893	261.175	13.498	1,678.93	2,611.75	134.98	43,772	68,092	3^519
C040	671 & 676	Program Associate II	Doctorate	169.308	262.590	13.498	1,693.08	2,625.90	134.98	44,141	68,461	3,519
C020	063 & 078	Program Supervisor		280.898	347.937	13.498	2,808.98	3,479.37	134.98	73,234	90,712	3,519
C020	063 & 078	Program Supervisor	Masters + 30	284.204	351.243	13.498	2,842.04	3,512.43	134.98	74,096	91’574	3,519 3,519
C020	063 & 078	Program Supervisor	Doctorate	285.619	352.658	13.498	2,856.19	3,526.58	134.98	74,465	91^943	
C010	371	Program Supervisor (12 Months)		288.381	357.810	13.498	2,883.81	3,578.10	134.98	75,185	93,286	3,519
C010	371	Program Supervisor (12 Months)	Masters + 30	291.687	361.116	13.498	2,916.87	3,611.16	134.98	76,047	94,148	3’519
C010	371	Program Supervisor (12 Months)	Doctorate	293.103	362.531	13.498	2,931.03	3,625.31	134.98	76,416	94^517	3^519
1500	184	Unit Head Acting Emerg.		312.691	312.691		3,126.91	3,126.91		81,523	81,523	
1500	184	Unit Head Acting Emerg.	Masters + 30	315.998	315.998	-	3,159.98	3,159.98		82,385	82^385	
1500	184	Unit Head Acting Emerig.	Doctorate	317.413	317.413	-	3,174.13	3,174.13	-	82,754	82,754	-
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
Parking Allowance: $360
Uniform Allowance: $300
*** ALL POSITIONS REQUIRE AT LEAST A BACHELOR’S DEGREE EXCEPT NAVAL JROTC DEPT. HEAD AND PROGRAM ASSOCIATE II.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	59_________OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for Adult Education Employees Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
Pay Class code	Position Code	Description	Hourly
8990	030	Coordinator — Alternate Position	25.71
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS OSAS Salary Schedule C for Workshops Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
Description	Hourly
Consultant / Director	41.05
Participant	21.57
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for Athletic Events — Supervisory Duties Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
Description	Stipend
Athletic Events — Supervisory Duties	3,978
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule L for Adult Education / Summer School Employees Related for Salary Rate Purposes to Salary Schedule C Effective July 1,2000 through June 30,2001 (2% increase)
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	61________OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Hourly	Daily
0520	070	Dept. Head, Adult Education	27.50	
7580	070	Dept. Head, Summer School	27.50	
2400	370	Supervisor — Adult Education	30.46	
7490	372	Supervisor — Summer School	30.73	
7710	370	Supervisor — Summer School	30.73	122.92

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
				Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
Pay Class	Position Code	Description	Degree	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment
1000 1000 1000	010 010 010	Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant Administrative Assistant	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	236.991	305.836	14.173 240.173	309.018	14.173 241.536	310.382	14.173	2,369.91	3,058.36	141.73 2,401.73	3,090.18	141.73 2,415.36	3,103.82	141.73	52,138	67,284	3,118 52,838	^7,984	3,118 53,138	68,284	3,118
C060 C060 C060		Admin Mgr / Attend Coord Admin Mgr/Attend Coord Admin Mgr/Attend Coord	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	227.209	297.814	14.173 230.391	300.995	14.173 231.755	302.359	14.173	2,272.09	2,978.14	141.73 2,303.91	3,009.95	141.73 2,317.55	3,023.59	141.73	49,986	65,519	3,118 50,686	66,219	3,118 50,986	66,519	3,118
1450 1450 1450	119 119 119	Coordinator Coordinator Coordinator	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	247.655	316.077	14.173 250.836	319.259	14.173 252.200	320.623	14.173	2,476.55	3,160.77	141.73 2,508.36	3,192.59	141.73 2,522.00	3,206.23	141.73	54,484	69,537	3,118 55,184	70,237	3,118 55,484	70,537	3,118
1550 1550 1550	072 072 072	Curricular Leader Curricular Leader Curricular Leader	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	249.723	321.105	14.173 252.905	324.286	14.173 254.268	325.650	14.173	2,497.23	3,211.05	141.73 2,529.05	3,242.86	141.73 2,542.68	3,256.50	141.73	54,939	70,643	3,118 55,639	71,343	3,118 55,939	71,643	3,118
		Curriculum Coordinator	Masters	Step 1	256.577 Step 2	281.700 Step 3	306.818 Step 4	331.932	Step 1	2,565.77 Step 2	2,817.00 Step 3	3,068.18 Step 4	3,319.32	Step 1	56,447 Step 2	61,974 Step 3	67,500 Step 4	73,025
		Curriculum Coordinator	Masters + 30	Step 1	259.759 Step 2	284.882 Step 3	310.000 Step 4	335.114	Step 1	2,597.59 Step 2	2,848.82 Step 3	3,100.00 Step 4	3,351.14	Stepl	57,147 Step 2	62,674 Step 3	68,200 Step 4	73,725
		Curriculum Coordinator	Doctorate	Stepl	261.123 Step 2	286.245 Step 3	311.364 Step 4	336.477	Stepl	2,611.23 Step 2	2,862.45 Step 3	3,113.64 Step 4	3,364.77	Step 1	57,447 Step 2	62,974 Step 3	68,500 Step 4	74,025
BONUSES:
>	15 years experience: $950
0 Absences: $300
1-2 Absences: $200
3-4 Absences: $150
*** Only Curriculum Leaders are eligible for Attendance Bonus.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Pay Class	Position			Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
Code	Code	Description	Degree	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	
1560	070	Curriculum Leader	Masters	Step 1	244.359 Step 2	268.282 Step 3	292.205 Step 4	316.123	Step 1	2,443.59 Step 2	2,682.82 Step 3	2,922.05 Step 4	3,161.23	Step 1	53,759 Step 2	59,022 Step 3	64,285 Sten 4	69 547
1560	070	Curriculum Leader	Masters + 30	Step 1	247.541 Step 2	271.464 Step 3	295.386 Step 4	319.305	Step 1	2,475.41 Step 2	2,714.64 Step 3	2,953.86 Step 4	3,193.05	Ulup *T	UUjJH/ Step 1	54,459 Step 2	59,722 Step 3	64,985 Stpn 4	70 947
1560	070	Curriculum Leader	Doctorate	Step 1	248.905 Step 2	272.827 Step 3	296.750 Step 4	320.668	Step 1	2,489.05 Step 2	2,728.27 Step 3	2,967.50 Step 4	3,206.68	OLUp t*	/U,£4t/ Step 1	54,759 Step 2	60,022 Step 3	65,285 Sten 4	70 547
1570 1570 1570	080 080 080	Dept. Head, Asst. Dept. Head, Asst. Dept. Head, Asst.	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	227.209	297.814	14.173 230.391	300.995	14.173 231.755	302.359	14.173	2,272.09	2,978.14	141.73 2,303.91	3,009.95	141.73 2,317.55	3,023.59	141 73	49,986	65,519	3,118 50,686	66,219	3,118 50 QRR	RR51Q	qiiq
1580 1580 1580	271 271 271	Diagnostician, Reading Diagnostician, Reading Diagnostician, Reading	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	239.591	311.173	14.173 242.773	314.355	14.173 244.136	315.718	14.173	2,395.91	3,111.73	141.73 2,427.73	3,143.55	141.73 2,441.36	3,157.18	141 73	JUjCJOU	UUjJ I <7	O, I I O 52,710	68,458	3,118 53,410	69,158	3,118 53 710	RQ 45R	3 11R
1890 1890 1890	092 092 092	Director Voc’l Tech. Ctr. Director Voc’l Tech. Ctr. Director Voc’l Tech. Ctr.	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	347.609	414.336	14.173 350.791	417.518	14.173 352.155	418.882	14.173	3,476.09	4,143.36	141.73 3,507.91	4,175.18	141.73 3,521.55	4,188.82	141 73	vU,/ IU	OCZjT’UO	O, I lo 76,474	91,154	3,118 77,174	91,854	3,118
1480 RAMI I.QF.Q-		Elementary Staff Coordinator	Masters	Step 1	244.359 Step 2	268.282 Step 3	292.205 Step 4	316.123	Step 1	2,443.59 Step 2	2,682.82 Step 3	2,922.05 Step 4	3,161.23	Step 1	53,759 Step 2	59,022 Step 3	64,285 Step 4	69,547
> 15 years experience: $950	3-4 Absences: $150
0 fences: $300	***,Only Curriculum Leaders are
1-2 Absences: $200	eligible for Attendance Bonus.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	63_________OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates					Biweekly Rates			Annual Rates		
				Minimum	Maximum	Increment	Minimum	Maximum I	Increment	Minimum	Maximum	Increment
1480		Elementary Staff Coordinator	Masters + 30	Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	247.541 271.464 295.386 319.305		Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	2,475.41 2,714.64 2,953.86 3,193.05		Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	54,459 59,722 64,985 70,247	
1480		Elementary Staff Coordinator	Doctorate	Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	248.905 272.827 296.750 320.668		Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	2,489.05 2,728.27 2,967.50 3,206.68		Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	54,759 60,022 65,285 70,547	
0050 0050 0050	522 522 522	Head Teacher, Com’l Foods Head Teacher, Com’l Foods Head Teacher, Com’l Foods	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	217.500 220.682 222.045	286.227 289.409 290.773	14.173 14.173 14.173	2,175.00 2,206.82 2,220.45	2,862.27 2,894.09 2,907.73	141.73 141.73 141.73	47,850 48,550 48,850	62,970 63,670 63,970	3,118 3,118 3,118
2280	321	Specialist, School for Deaf	Masters	Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	244.359 268.282 292.205 316.123		Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	2,443.59 2,682.82 2,922.05 3,161.23		Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	53,759 59,022 64,285 69,547	
2280	321	Specialist, School for Deaf	Masters + 30	Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	247.541 271.464 295.386 319.305		Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	2,475.41 2,714.64 2,953.86 3,193.05		Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	54,459 59,722 64,985 70,247	
2280	321	Specialist, School for Deaf	Doctorate	Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	248.905 272.827 296.750 320.668		Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	2,489.05 2,728.27 2,967.50 3,206.68		Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4	54,759 60,022 65,285 70,547	
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
0 Absences: $300
1-2 Absences: $200
3-4 Absences: $150
*** Only Curriculum Leaders are eligible for Attendance Bonus.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 Week Employees Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Pay Class	Position			Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
Code	Code	Description	Degree	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	
2380 2380 2380	370 370 370	Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor	Masters Masters + 30 Doctorate	290.491	360.423	14.173 293.673	363.605	14.173 295.036	364.968	14.173	2,904.91	3,604.23	141.73 2,936.73	3,636.05	141.73 2,950.36	3,649.68	141.73	63,908	79,293	3,118 64,608	79,993	3,118 64,908	80,293	3,118
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 44 IVeek Employees — Extended IVork Assignments Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Daily Rates
			Degree Minimum Maximum
7160	101	Admin Asst., Extended Work	236.991 305.836	14.173
7090	030	Coordinator, Extended Work	247.655 316.077	14.173
7140	070	Curriculum Leader, Ext. Work	Step 1	244.359 Step 2	268.282 Step 3	292.205 Step 4	316.123
7030	370	Supervisor, Extended Work	290.491	360.423	14.173
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
0 Absences: $300
1-2 Absences: $200
3-4 Absences: $150
*** Only Curriculum Leaders are eligible for Attendance Bonus.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	65______ OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)

HHB
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 52 Week Employees Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates					Biweekly Rates			Annual Rates		
				Minimum	Maximum	Increment	Minimum	Maximum I	Increment	Minimum	Maximum	Increment
1320	117	Accountant		150.326	231.975	7.771	1,503.26	2,319.75	77.71	39,192	60,479	2,026
1320	117	Accountant	Masters + 30	153.632	235.281	7.771	1,536.32	2,352.81	77.71	40,054	61,341	2,026
1320	117	Accountant	Doctorate	155.047	236.696	7.771	1,550.47	2,366.96	77.71	40,423	61,710	2,026
1020	106	Accountant, Principal		254.935	272.789	10.464	2,549.35	2,727.89	104.64	66,465	71,120	2,728
1020	106	Accountant, Principal	Masters + 30	258.241	276.096	10.464	2,582.41	2,760.96	104.64	67,327	71,982	2,728
1020	106	Accountant, Principal	Doctorate	259.656	277.511	10.464	2,596.56	2,775.11	104.64	67,696	72,351	2,728
1330	118	Auditor		150.326	231.975	7.771	1,503.26	2,319.57	77.71	39,192	60,479	2,026
1330	118	Auditor	Masters + 30	153.632	235.281	7.771	1,536.32	2,352.81	77.71	40,054	61,341	2,026
1330	118	Auditor	Doctorate	155.047	236.696	7.771	1,550.47	2,366.96	77.71	40,423	61,710	2,026
1030	114	Auditor, Principal		254.935	272.789	10.464	2,549.35	2,727.89	104.64	66,465	71,120	2,728
1030	114	Auditor, Principal	Masters + 30	258.241	276.096	10.464	2,582.41	2,760.96	104.64	67,327	71,982	2,728
1030	114	Auditor, Principal	Doctorate	259.656	277.511	10.464	2,596.56	2,775.11	104.64	67,696	72,351	2,728
1340	119	Budget Analyst		150.326	231.975	7.771	1,503.26	2,319.75	77.71	39,192	60,479	2,026
1340	119	Budget Analyst	Masters + 30	153.632	235.281	7.771	1,536.32	2,352.81	77.71	40,054	61,341	2,026
1340	119	Budget Analyst	Doctorate	155.047	236.696	7.771	1,550.47	2,366.96	77.71	40,423	61,710	2,026
6260	067	Chief of Security, Assistant		183.803	211.216	13.770	1,838.03	2,112.16	137.70	47,920	55,067	3,590
6260	067	Chief of Security, Assistant	Masters + 30	187.109	214.522	13.770	1,871.09	2,145.22	137.70	48,782	55,929	3,590
6260	067	Chief of Security, Assistant	Doctorate	188.525	215.938	13.770	1,885.25	2,159.38	137.70	49,151	56,298	3,590
1140	066	Chief of Security, Deputy		257.163	326.895	13.770	2,571.63	3,268.95	137.70	67,046	85,226	3,590
1140	066	Chief of Security, Deputy	Masters + 30	260.469	330.201	13.770	2,604.69	3,302.01	137.70	67,908	86,088	3,590
1140	066	Chief of Security, Deputy	Doctorate	261.885	331.616	13.770	2,618.85	3,316.16	137.70	68,277	86,457	3,590
1590	090	Director		318.947	385.265	13.770	3,189.47	3,852.65	137.70	83,154	100,444	3,590
1590	090	Director	Masters + 30	322.254	388.571	13.770	3,222.54	3,885.71	137.70	84,016	101,306	3,590
1590	090	Director	Doctorate	323.669	389.987	13.770	3,236.69	3,899.87	137.70	84,385	101,675	3,590
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950	*** ALL POSITIONS REQUIRE AT LEAST A
Parking Allowance: $360	BACHELOR’S DEGREE EXCEPT NAVAL JROTC
Uniform Allowance: $300	DEPT. HEAD AND PROGRAM ASSOCIATE II.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 52 Week Employees Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates	Biweekly Rates	Annual Rates
				Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment	Minimum Maximum Increment
6270 6270 6270	068 068 068	Field Supervisor (Security) Field Supervisor (Security) Field Supervisor (Security)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	168.810	183.803	13.770 172.116	187.109	13.770 173.531	188.525	13.770	1,688.10	1,838.03	137.70 1,721.16	1,871.09	137.70 1,735.31	1,885.25	137.70	44,011	47,920	3,590 44,873	48,782	3,590 45,242	49,151	3,590
2550 2550 2550	410 410 410	Head Teacher, Apprentice Head Teacher, Apprentice Head Teacher, Apprentice	Masters + 30 Doctorate	219.321	289.478	13.770 222.627	292.784	13.770 224.042	294.200	13.770	2,193.21	2,894.78	137.70 2,226.27	2,927.84	137.70 2,240.42	2,942.00	137.70	57,180	75,471	3,590 58,042	76,333	3,590 58,411	76,702	3,590
6310 6310 6310	409 409 409	Investigator Investigator Investigator	Masters + 30 Doctorate	168.810	183.803	13.770 172.116	187.109	13.770 173.531	188.525	13.770	1,688.10	1,838.03	137.70 1,721.16	1,871.09	137.70 1,735.31	1,885.25	137.70	44,011	47,920	3,590 44,873	48,782	3,590 45,242	49,151	3,590
2040	079	Naval JROTC Dept. Head		265.375 265.375	2,653.75 2,653.75	69,187	69,187
0030 C030 C030	023 & 024 023 & 024 023 & 024	Program Associate I Program Associate I Program Associate I	Masters + 30 Doctorate	235.871	305.630	13.770 239.178	308.936	13.770 240.593	310.352	13.770	2,358.71	3,056.30	137.70 2,391.78	3,089.36	137.70 2,405.93	3,103.52	137.70	61,495	79,682	3,590 62,357	80,544	3,590 62,726	80,913	3,590
1060 1060 1060	011 011 011	Prg. Assoc. I (Admin. Asst.) Prg. Assoc. I (Admin. Asst.) Prg. Assoc. I (Admin. Asst.)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	257.163	326.895	13.770 260.469	330.201	13.770 261.885	331.616	13.770	2,571.63	3,268.95	137.70 2,604.69	3,302.01	137.70 2,618.85	3,316.16	137.70	67,046	85,226	3,590 67,908	86,088	3,590 68,277	86,457	3,590
1470 1470 1470	029 029 029	Prg. Assoc. I (Equal Employ. Opp.) Prg. Assoc. I (Equal Employ. Opp.) Prg. Assoc. I (Equal Employ. Opp.)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	257.163	326.895	13.770 260.469	330.201	13.770 261.885	331.616	13.770	2,571.63	3,268.95	137.70 2,604.69	3,302.01	137.70 2,618.85	3,316.16	137.70	67,046	85,226	3,590 67,908	86,088	3,590 68,277	86,457	3,590
1490 1490 1490	039 039 039	Prg. Assoc. I (Field Coord. School Comm.) Prg. Assoc. I (Field Coord. School Comm.) Prg. Assoc. I (Field Coord. School Comm.)	Masters + 30 Doctorate	249.484	318.778	13.770 252.790	322.085	13.770 254.206	323.500	13.770	2,494.84	3,187.78	137.70 2,527.90	3,220.85	137.70 2,542.06	3,235.00	137.70	65,044	83,110	3,590 65,906	83,972	3,590 66,275	84,341	3,590
> 15 years experience: $950	*** ALL POSITIONS REQUIRE AT LEAST A
Parking Allowance: $360	BACHELOR’S DEGREE EXCEPT NAVAL JROTC
Uniform Allowance: $300	DEPT. HEAD AND PROGRAM ASSOCIATE II.
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	67__________OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for 52 Week Employees Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
O)
00
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Degree	Daily Rates			Biweekly Rates			Annual Rates		
				Minimum	Maximum	Increment	Minimum	Maximum I	Increment	Minimum	Maximum	Increment
2070	290	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Assistant)		243.846	313.597	13.770	2,438.46	3,135.97	137.70	63,574	81,759	3,590
2070	290	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Assistant)	Masters + 30	247.152	316.903	13.770	2,471.52	3,169.03	137.70	64,436	82,621	3,590
2070	290	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Assistant)	Doctorate	248.567	318.318	13.770	2,485.67	3,183.18	137.70	64,805	82,990	3,590
2060	291	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Associate)		257.163	326.895	13.770	2,571.63	3,268.95	137.70	67,046	85,226	3,590
2060	291	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Associate)	Masters + 30	260.469	330.201	13.770	2,604.69	3,302.01	137.70	67,908	86,088	3,590
2060	291	Prg. Assoc. I (Research Associate)	Doctorate	261.885	331.616	13.770	2,618.85	3,316.16	137.70	68,277	86,457	3,590
2300	038	Prg. Assoc. I (Sr. Cntrct. Rei. Spec.)		242.273	307.011	13.770	2,422.73	3,070.11	137.70	63,164	80,042	3,590
2300	038	Prg. Assoc. I (Sr. Cntrct. Rei. Spec.)	Masters + 30	245.579	310.317	13.770	2,455.79	3,103.17	137.70	64,026	80,904	3,590
2300	038	Prg. Assoc. I (Sr. Cntrct. Rei. Spec.)	Doctorate	246.995	311.732	13.770	2,469.95	3,117.32	137.70	64,395	81,273	3,590
C040	671 & 676	Program Associate II	< Masters	159.980	255.686	13.770	1,599.80	2,556.86	137.70	41,709	66,661	3,590
C040	671 & 676	Program Associate II	Masters	167.881	263.028	13.770	1,678.81	2,630.28	137.70	43,769	68,575	3,590
C040	671 & 676	Program Associate II	Masters + 30	171.188	266.334	13.770	1,711.88	2,663.34	137.70	44,631	69,437	3,590
C040	671 & 676	Program Associate II	Doctorate	172.603	267.749	13.770	1,726.03	2,677.49	137.70	45,000	69,806	3,590
C020	063 & 078	Program Supervisor		286.517	354.898	13.770	2,865.17	3,548.98	137.70	74,699	92,527	3,590
C020	063 & 078	Program Supervisor	Masters + 30	289.823	358.205	13.770	2,898.23	3,582.05	137.70	75,561	93,389	3,590
C020	063 & 078	Program Supervisor	Doctorate	291.239	359.620	13.770	2,912.39	3,596.20	137.70	75,930	93,758	3,590
C010	371	Program Supervisor (12 Months)		294.150	364.967	13.770	2,941.50	3,649.67	137.70	76,689	95,152	3,590
C010	371	Program Supervisor (12 Months)	Masters + 30	297.456	368.273	13.770	2,974.56	3,682.73	137.70	77,551	96,014	3,590
C010	371	Program Supervisor (12 Months)	Doctorate	298.872	369.689	13.770	2,988.72	3,696.89	137.70	77,920	96,383	3,590
1500	184	Unit Head Acting Emerg.		318.947	318.947	-	3,189.47	3,189.47	-	83,154	83,154	-
1500	184	Unit Head Acting Emerg.	Masters + 30	322.254	322.254	-	3,222.54	3,222.54	-	84,016	84,016	-
1500	184	Unit Head Acting Emerig.	Doctorate	323.669	323.669	-	3,236.69	3,236.69	-	84,385	84,385	-
BONUSES:
> 15 years experience: $950
Parking Allowance: $360
Uniform Allowance: $300
*** ALL POSITIONS REQUIRE AT LEAST A BACHELOR’S DEGREE EXCEPT NAVAL JROTC DEPT. HEAD AND PROGRAM ASSOCIATE II.
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for Adult Education Employees Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Hourly
8990	030	Coordinator — Alternate Position	26.23
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS OSAS Salary Schedule C for Workshops Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Description	Hourly
Consultant / Director	41.88
Participant	22.01
OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)	69_________ OSAS Local 28 (7/1/99-6/30/04)
o
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for Athletic Events — Supervisory Duties Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Description	Stipend
Athletic Events — Supervisory Duties 		4,058
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule L for Adult Education / Summer School Employees Related for Salary Rate Purposes to Salary Schedule C Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Hourly	Daily
0520	070	Dept. Head, Adult Education	28.05	
7580	070	Dept. Head, Summer School	28.05	
2400	370	Supervisor — Adult Education	31.07	
7490	372	Supervisor — Summer School	31.35	
7710	370	Supervisor — Summer School	31.35	125.40
O CD > CD
no oo
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 1999-2000 SCHOOL CALENDAR

DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule C for Athletic Events — Supervisory Duties Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
o
Description	Stipend
Athletic Events — Supervisory Duties	4,058
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
OSAS Salary Schedule L for Adult Education / Summer School Employees Related for Salary Rate Purposes to Salary Schedule C Effective July 1,2001 through June 30,2002 (2% increase)
Pay Class Code	Position Code	Description	Hourly	Daily
0520	070	Dept. Head, Adult Education	28.05	
7580	070	Dept. Head, Summer School	28.05	
2400	370	Supervisor — Adult Education	31.07	
7490	372	Supervisor — Summer School	31.35	
7710	370	Supervisor — Summer School	31.35	125.40
m 30
bO hO
00 -*■
ti
30
CD

CD m
m CD -i m □J
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 1999-2000 SCHOOL CALENDAR
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 2000-2001 SCHOOL CALENDAR
DETROIT PUBLIC SCHOOLS 2001-2002 SCHOOL CALENDAR
FIRST SEMESTER
SECOND SEMESTER
FIRST SEMESTER
SECOND SEMESTER
MON	TUE	WED	THU	FRI
MON	TUE	WED	THU	FRI
MON	TUE	WED	THU	FRI
MON	TUE	WED	THU	FRI
AUGUST-SEPTEMBER
JANUARY-FEBRUARY
AUGUST-SEPTEMBER
JANUARY-FEBRUARY

		30	31 I	1
11	I 5	6	7	8
	12	13	14	15
18	19	20	21	22
25	26	27	28	29
22
22	23	24	25	26
29	30	31	1	2
5	6	7	8	9
12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21	22	23
25
3		29	30	31
	4	5	6	7
10	11	12	13	14
17	18	19	20	21
24	25	26	27	28
22
21	I 22	23	24	25
28	29	30	31	1
4	5	6	7	8
11	12	13	14	15
18	19	20	21	22
24
OCTOBER
FEBRUARY-MARCH
OCTOBER
FEBRUARY-MARCH
2	3	4	5	6
9	10	11	12	13
16	17	18	19	20
23	24	25	26	27
20
26	27	28	1	2
5	6	7	8	9
12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21	22	23
15
1	2	3	4	5
8	9	10	11	12
15	16	17	18	19
22	23	24	25	26
20
25	26	27	28	1
4	5	6	7	8
11	12	13	14	15
18	19	20	21	22
15
OCTOBER-NOVEMBER
MARCH-APRIL
OCTOBER-NOVEMBER
MARCH-APRIL
26	27	28	29	30
2	3	4	IIMIIIIIII	6 |
9	10	11	12	13
16	17	18	19	20
14
29	30	31	lllil	2
5	6	7	8	E==g~-~:
12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21 |	22	23
18
I 25 I	| 26 |	| 27	I 28 ■	29
1	2	3	4	5
8	9	10	IKIi’IHI	12
15	16	17	I 18 |	19
NOVEMBER-DECEMBER
APRIL-MAY
NOVEMBER-DECEMBER
14
APRIL-MAY
27	28	29	30	1
4	5	6	7	8
11	12	13	14	15
18	19	20	21	22
19
23	24	25	26	27
30	1	2	3	4
7	8	9	10	11
14	15	16	17	18
20
26	27	28	29	30
3	4	5	6	7
10	11	12	13	14
17	18	19	20	21
20
22	23	24	25	26
29	30	1	2	3
6	7	8	9	10
13	14	15	16	17
20
DECEMBER-JANUARY
MAY-JUNE
DECEMBER-JANUARY
MAY-JUNE
25	26	27	28	29
13/92
CALENDAR NOTES:
THIS SCHOOL YEAR HAS 184 DAYS.
I 21 I	| 22	23	24	25
28	29	30	31	1
I 4	5	6	7	8
11	12	13 I	BIEI	lltt®
18/92
13/93
CALENDAR NOTES:
THIS SCHOOL YEAR HAS 184 DAYS.
| 20	I 21	22	23	24
27	28	29	30	31
I 3	4	5	6	7
I 10	11	12	SMB	■EBI
KEY:
SCHOOLS CLOSED
SCHOOLS OPEN NO STUDENTS
REPORT CARD DATES
HALF-DAYS
NOVEMBER 10 IS A HALF-DAY FOR ATTENDANCE PURPOSES BUT COUNTS AS A FULL DAY OF INSTRUCTION.
JANUARY 17, 2001 IS A FULL DAY AND JANUARY 18, 2001 IS A HALF-DAY FOR STUDENTS PER TEACHERS CONTRACT. JUNE 13, 2002 IS A FULL.
SCHOOLS CLOSED
SCHOOLS OPEN NO STUDENTS
REPORT CARD DATES
HALF-DAYS