Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Newark, State Operated School District of (Teachers, Clerks Agreement) and Newark Teachers Union, American Federation of Teachers (AFT), AFL-CIO, Local 481 (2003)
K#: 8307207
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
J 0-2 07
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
NEWARK TEACHERS UNION and NEWARK PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Newark Teachers Union Local 481 American Federation of Teachers AFL-CIO 1019 Broad Street Newark, NJ 07102
N.T.U.
e-mail: ntu@ntuaft.com home page: www.ntuaft.com
TEACHER - CLERK July 1, 2003 - June 30, 2006
NEWARK TEACHERS UNION
Local 481 American Federation of Teachers AFL-CIO 1019 Broad Street Newark, NJ 07102
Voice: 973-643-8430 Fax: 973-643-8435
e-mail: ntu@ntuaft.com home page: www.ntuaft.com
N.T.U.
TEACHER - CLERK July 1, 2003 - June 30, 2006

NEWARK TEACHERS UNION
N.T.U.
NTU OFFICERS
Joseph Del Grosso PRESIDENT
Christine “Roz” Samuels SECRETARY-TREASURER
NTU EXECUTIVE BOARD
John M. Abeigon Norma Alvarado John Alvino Wayne S. Ashby Gerald Battaglini Diane Capers Michael Caputo Nancy Chitty-Jones Michele Corbo Diane W. Crosby John Cunha Richard D’Angelo Johnny Escobar Sharif Farrakhan Sherry Gaines
Mitchel Gerry Henry L. Goodfriend Sandra L. Green Deidre Littles Jerry Moore Alfredo Nieto Robert L. Palumbo Pietro M. Petino Americo J. Pezza Vinca Rodriguez Bernard Saez Gary Scala Christine Veliz
NEWARK TEACHERS UNION
N.T.U.
NTU NEGOTIATING TEAM
Joseph Del Grosso, President
Pietro M. Petino, Executive Director I Chief Negotiator
Diane Capers, NTU Officer
Michele Corbo, NTU Officer
Richard L. D’Angelo, NTU Officer Sharif Farrakhan, NTU Officer Roberta Singletary, Clerk, Newton Street School
Mitchel Gerry, NTU Editor
Michael Maillaro, NTU Associate Editor Joseph Fonseca, NTU Technology
pm-
STATE OPERATED
SCHOOL DISTRICT
City of Newark
I
Marion Bolden
State District Superintendent
I
SCHOOL DISTRICT NEGOTIATING TEAM
Anzella Nelms, Deputy Assistant Superintendent
I
I
I'
Raymond A. Cassetta, Chief Negotiator
Ann Marie McGoldrick, Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources Department Dr. Don Marinaro, Assistant Superintendent
Raphael Felli, Director of Labor Relations Dr. Glenda Johnson-Green, Executive Assistant Margaret Adeyemo, Labor Relations Specialist / Senior Personnel Technician
I
I
I
I
■HII
QUICK REFERENCE GUIDE
ABSENTEEISM....23
ADMINISTRATIVE SUMMONS... .33
BUILDING REP MEETING WITH PRINCIPAL. ..11
BULLETIN BOARDS (NTU).... 10
CAFETERIA DUTY... .28, 29
CALENDAR.... 16-18
CLASS ASSIGNMENTS....23, 24
CLASS COVERAGE COMPENSATION....25
CLASS INTERRUPTIONS....33
CONSECUTIVE ASSIGNMENTS... .24
DEATH IN IMMEDIATE FAMILY/HOUSEHOLD....49
DISCRETIONARY FUNDS... .34
END OF DAY - ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS.... 18
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM....80
FACULTY MEETINGS....33
GRIEVANCES....3-7
LEAVES....46-50
LONGEVITY...63
MARRIAGE....49
MATERNITY LEAVE... .48
MATTERS NOT COVERED.... 83
MEDICAL CERTIFICATE - SICK LEAVE, SHORT-TERM SICK
LEAVE....46
NECESSARY DUTIES....28, 29
OPEN HOUSE....25
PAY DATES....77
POSTING OF SCHEDULES....25
PREP PERIODS - DEFINED....25
PREP PERIODS - ELEMENTARY...20
PREP PERIODS - NTU BUILDING REP.... 18
PRIOR CREDIT....63
PUPIL GRADES....33
ROOM ASSIGNMENTS... .24

QUICK REFERENCE GUIDE (Continued)
SALARY GUIDE - CST.. ..66
SALARY GUIDE - TEACHERS....60-62
SICK / PERSONAL DAYS BUY BACK....46, 47
SICK DAYS CONVERSION- RETIREMENT....50-52
SCHEDULES - PER DIEM SUBSTITUTES....22
SCHEDULES - SPECIAL SCHOOLS....20
SOLICITATION OF FUNDS....34
SUMMER RATES - TEACHERS, CLERKS, COORDINATORS, CST &
AIDES....37
TARDINESS....23
TEACHING CLASS ASSIGNMENTS - HS & JR. HIGH....24, 25
TEACHER FACILITIES....31, 32
TEACHER PERFORMANCE....29, 30
TEACHER PROTECTION....35, 36
TEACHER SALARY GUIDE....60-62
TEACHER SCHEDULES AND SCHOOL DAY....18-23
TUITION REIMBURSEMENTS....84-86
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Mediator’s Recommendations.... 1
Declaration of Intent.... 1
Agreement....!
Article I Recognition of NTU as Bargaining Agent
Section 1	Categories of NTU Members....!
Section 2	Definition of Employee....!
Section 3	Equal Representation by NTU....3
Article II Non-Discrimination Policy
Section 1 Non-Discrimination Policy Statement....3
Section ! Employee Application Process....3
Article III Grievances
Section 1 Definitions
A Definition of Grievance.... 3
B Definition of Employee.... 3
C NTU Right to Initiate, Process & Appeal Grievances....4
Section ! Grievance Procedures
A NTU Representation....4
B Timelines & Guidelines for Meetings/Hearings....4
Step 1 Informal Conference... .4
Step 2 Principal....4, 5
Step 3 State District Superintendent....5
Step 4 Arbitration....5
A Request for Binding Arbitration.. ..5
B Arbitration Award....6
1	Binding and Enforceable... .6
2	Selection of Arbitrator... .6
C Arbitrator’s Panel Power....6
D Arbitrator’s Limits....?
E Fees and Expenses for Arbitrator .. ..7
i
Section 3 General Provisions
A Notification Timelines....?, 8
B Persons Eligible to Participate....8
C Grievances Arising from Central Office Administrators....8
D NTU Arbitration Choices....8
E Reprisals Against Participants Not Allowed.. ..9
F Mutually Agreed Time Limits... .9
G Year End Grievances.. ..9
H Grievances/Personnel Files, Promotions/Job Placements....9
I Grievance Forms.... 9
Article IV NTU Rights
Section 1	Leave of Absence for Union Service....9,10
Section 2	Contract Negotiations on School Time....10
Section3 N	TU Bulletin Boards....10
Section 4	NTU Meetings
A Rep-Staff Meetings.... 11
B General Membership Meetings.... 11
Section 5	Meetings with Principals
A Building Rep Meetings with Principal.... 11
B Building Rep Meeting Guidelines ....11, 12
C Individual School Policies.... 12
Section 6	Availability of NPS Public Records....12
Section 7	Distribution of NTU Literature in Schools....12
Section 8	District-NTU Meetings.... 12
Section 9	School Visits by NTU Officials/Representatives
A NTU Member Conferences.... 13
B Classroom Visit by Union Officials.... 13
C Notice to Building Rep. of Central Office Admin. Visits.... 13
D Arrest of NTU Member on School Property.... 13
Section 10	NTU Representation at Board Meetings....!3,14
Section 11	Leave of Absence for Union Conventions
A AFT, NJ AFL-CIO & NJSFT Conventions.... 14
B Legislative & Government Bodies.... 14
C Number of Days Available.... 14
D Limitation on Representatives.... 14
Section 12	Dues Deduction.... 15
Section 13	Agency Assessment....15
ii
Section 14	Super Seniority.... 15
Section 15	Use of School Phone for NTU Business.... 15
Section 16	Reasonable Notice for School Closing....15
Article V General Conditions of Employment
Section 1	Fair Employment Practice
A Tenure Employment Practice.... 16
B Non-Tenured Notification Date.... 16
Section 2	School Calendar
A Inservice Days.... 16
B Work Year.... 16, 17
C Orientation Day.... 17
D New Teacher Orientation.... 17
E School Calendar.... 17, 18
Section 3 Teacher Schedules and the School Day
A NTU Building Representatives.... 18
B Elementary Schools.... 18
1	Sign-In Time.... 18
2	End of Day. ...18
3	Regular Day Schedule for Elementary Schools.... 19
4	Special Circumstances.... 19
5	Reg. Day Schedule for Teachers of Part-Time Classes.... 19
6	Prep. Periods for Elem. School Employees....20
C Special Schools and Special Classes....20
1	Hours of Service for Special Schools or Classes.. ..20
2	Preparation Periods In Special Schools....20
3	Teachers Who Volunteer to Work Beyond the Work Day... .20 D Secondary Schools....21
1	Sign-In Time....21
2	End of Day....21
3	Regular Day Schedule... .21
4	Special Adjustments to Schedules... .21, 22
5	Block Scheduling....22
E Per-Diem Substitute Daily Schedule....22
F Absenteeism and Tardiness....23
1	Reporting & Failure to Report an Absence....23
2	Late Arrival to School....23
3	Absence Before and After a Holiday... .23
4	Exceptions....23
iii

I I ■■ I
I
■ I
I
I I k I;
I I ■ I ■
■
Section 4	Class Assignments and Open House
A Class Assignments....23
1	Number of Subjects & Prep Periods Required.. ..23
2	Room Assignments....24
3	Notice of Teacher Schedule Prior to End of Year.. ..24
4	Excused from Specific Duties....24
5	Consecutive Assignments Limited to Three....24
6	Teaching Class Assignments....24
A)	Secondary/Jr. High Teaching Classes Per Day.. ..24
B)	Class Coverage Compensation....25
7	Posting of Schedules... .25
8	Preparation Periods Defined....25
B Open House: Evening School Mtgs....25
Section 5	Seniority
A Defined....26
B Standards for Determining Seniority....26
C Length of Service... .26
Section 6	Assignment and Transfer
A Voluntary Transfer from School to School....26
1	June 1 st Vacancies Listed... .26
2	Applications for Transfer.. ..27
3	Reason for Not Transferring... .27
B Reassignments within a School....27
1	Notification to Principal... .27
C Involuntary Transfers from School to School....27
1	Transfers....27
2	Written Reason...21
Section 7 Necessary Duties
A Elementary/Middle School Teachers....28
1	Meeting Students... .28
2	Playground Duty....28
3	Volunteering....28
A)	For Cafeteria/Playground Duty....28
B)	Posting Notices and Assignments....28
B Secondary School Teachers....29
1	Monitoring Teachers During Classes....29
2	Cafeteria Duty....29
C Service Periods... .29
D Duty Free Lunch Period....29
iv
Section 8	Teacher Performance Evaluation and Personnel Files
A Signed Notice of Evaluation... .29
B Evaluation....30
C Observations / Evaluation Conferences....30
D Monitoring or Recording Prohibited....30
E Opportunity to Read... .30
F Copy of Evaluation to Teacher... .30
G Right to Inspect File....30
H Confidential Files....31
I Revision of Forms.... 31
J Unsatisfactory Ratings... .31
Section 9	Teacher Facilities
A Classroom Storage Space. ...31
B Teacher Workroom....31
C Faculty Lounge With Telephone. ...31
D Teacher Restroom. ...31
E Communications System....32
F Security Guard... .32
G Excluding Intruders From School Grounds....32
H Unfit Classroom Conditions....32
I Child Study Team Facilities.. ..32, 33
Section 10	Faculty Meetings....33
Section 11	Pupil Grades....33
Section 12	Teacher’s Grade Book.
A Written Comments by Administrator.. ..33
Section 13	Administrative Summons....33
Section 14	Class Interruptions....33
Section 15	Solicitation of Funds. ...34
Section 16	Supplies and Instructional Materials
A Texts and Materials....34
B Discretionary Fund... .34
Section 17	Professional Improvement Fund....34
Section 18	Verification of Employment....34
Section 19	Placement in Positions....35
Article VI Teacher Protection
Section 1	Negligence
A Cost of Defense.... 3 5
B Reporting of Personal or Property Damage... .35
v
Section 2	Assault and Personal Injury....35
Section 3	Compensation
A Salary and Sick Day Protection....36
B Award Restriction.... 3 6
Article VII Summer School and Summer Recreation Programs
A Qualifications....36
B Posting....36
C Selection....36
D Summer Pay Rates... .37
Article VIII School Clerks Salary
Section 1	School Clerks Salary Guide
A School Clerks (10 Months)....38-40
B School Clerks (12 Months)... .41 -43
C Organization Day... .44
Section 2	Sick and Personal Days....44
Section 3	Job Description
A New Jersey Dept, of Personnel....44
B No Dictation....44
Section 4	Overtime....44
Section 5	Work Day
A Definition....44
B Noncompulsory Overtime... .45
C Work Break....45
D Monitor or Supervise Students....45
Section 6	Longevity....45
Section 7	Time Reports
A Special Telephone Connection....45
Section 8	Career Ladder Program....45
Article IX Cultural Pluralism
A Commemorative Dates....45
B Bilingual and Multilingual Teachers....46
vi
Article X Leaves
Section 1	Sick and Personal Leaves
A Number of Sick Days Granted... .46
B Additional Sick Days for Teachers with 25 years experience....46
C Unused Sick Days... .46
D Exhausted Sick Days....46
E Medical Certificate....46
F Number of Personal Days Granted.. ..47
G Sexual Equality of Leave Privileges....47
H Picking up Pay checks When Absent....47
I Prorated Sick Days When Returning from Leave of Absence....47
J Conversion of Sick & Personal Days - Not Exceeding 6 Days....47
Section 2	Maternity Leave
A Length of Maternity Leave... .48
B Return to Service....48
C Extended Maternity Leave....48
D Seniority and Salary.. ..48
E Seniority Rights During Maternity Leave....48
Section 3	Military Leave
A Inducted Teacher... .48
B Eligibility for Military Leave....48
C Salary Schedule Placement... .49
D Reinstatement and Seniority... .49
Section 4	Existing Leave Policy
A Death in Immediate Family or Household.. ..49
B Court Subpoena... .49
C Quarantine....49
D Excused Attendance at Conference....49
E Marriage....49
Section 5	Maintenance of Rights and Benefits
A Full Benefits During Leave....49
B Returning to Full-Time Enrollment upon Termination of Leave.. ..50
Section 6	Reserve Duty....50
|
vii
Section 7	Retirement....50
A 90 Days Notice....50
B Conversion of Sick Days - For Midyear Retirements....50
1	First 90 Days....50
2	91 - 150 Days....50
3	151 - 250 Days....50
4	Over 250 Days....51
5	Requirement....51
6	Exceptions to 90 Days Notice....51
C Conversion of Sick Days for July 1 st Retirements... .51
1	First 90 Days....51
2	91-150 Days....51
3	151-250....51
4	Over 250 Days....51
5	Requirement....52
Section 8 Family Leave Act I Family & Medical Leave Act....52
A.	Fulfilling Requirements for FLA or FMLA...52
B.	Permitted Purposes For Leave...52
C.	Seniority...52
D.	Attendance Improvement Plan...52
Article XI Promotions - Notice of Vacancies
A Promotional Positions
1	Listed Promotional Positions.... 5 3
2	Notice of Vacancy.... 5 3
3	Time of Posting for Vacancies... .53
4	Right to Apply for Promotional Positions....53
Article XII Supplemental Fringe Benefits
A Maintenance of Benefits....53, 54
B Review of Benefits Provider... .54
Article XIII Extra-Curricular Activities & Supplementary Compensation A General Pro visions.... 5 5
1	Eligibility....55
2	Selection....55
3	In-Service Credit....55
4	Minimum Teachers Assigned to Recreation Centers.. ..55
viii
1
5	Sexual Equality of Coaches Pay.. ..55
6	Priority Consideration.... 5 5
B Clubs and Activities Selection
1	Applications.... 5 6
2	Eligibility....56
3	Principal Appointment... .56
4	Reason for Non-Selection.. ..56
5	Appointment Protection....56
6	Preference for Position... .56
7	Rotation of Appointments... .56
C Extra-Curricular Compensation
1	Pay Dates and Installments...57
2	Extra-Curricular Compensation Salary Guide...58, 59
Article XIV Teacher Salary
Section 1 Teacher Salary Guide
A Schedule for BA Level.. ..60
B Schedule for MA Level... .61
C Schedule for Ph.D. Level....62
D Longevity....63
E Prior Credit....63, 64
F Prior Credit Special Needs Areas....64
G Equivalency Credits.... 64
H Prevention Specialist....64, 65
Section 2	Psych., Social Workers & L.D.T.C.s Salary Guide....66
Section 3	Psychiatrist, Phys. Therapist Asst., Pianist Salary Guide....67,68
Section 4	Court Representatives Salary Guide
A Schedule for BA Level.. ..69
B Schedule for MA Level....70
C Schedule for Ph.D. Level... .71
Section 5	Coordinator Salary Guide
A Schedule for BA Level.. ..72
B Schedule for MA Level....73
C Schedule for Ph.D. Level....74
Section 6	Newark Evening School Textbook Clerk/Asst. Clerk Salary Guide.. .75
Section 7	Licensed Practical Nurse Salary Guide....75
Section 8	Correcting Payroll Errors....76
Section 9	Wrong Step....76
Section 10	Time Reports....76
ix
Section 11	Paydays
A 10 or 12 Months Option....77
B Pay Day Schedule ... .77
C.	Appropriate Payday....77
D.	Five Day Salary Holdback Eliminated....77
Section 12	Mailed Checks....77
Section 13	Reimbursement for Expenses....77
Section 14	Compensation for Guidance Counselors....78
Section 15	Recreation Directors’ Salary....78
Section 16	Payroll Check Pickup for Itinerants....78
Section 17	Reimbursement for Transportation Expenses
A Child Study Team Reimbursement.... 78
B Traveling to More Than One Site....78
C Departure Point....78
D Public Transportation or IRS Mileage Allowance....78
E Monthly Vouchers for Travel Reimbursement....79
F Reimbursement within 30 Working Days....79
Section 18	Grant Programs....79
Article XV	Employee Assistance Program...80
Article XVI	Quality Control/Discipline Committees...80, 81
Article XVII	Federal Supplemental Funding. ..81
Article XVIII	Curriculum Revisions. ..81,82
Section 1	Curriculum Committee....81, 82
Section 2	Oversight Committee on Special Education....82
Article XIX Matters Not Covered
Section 1	Superseded Policy, Rule or Regulation....83
Section 2	No Changes: Wages, Hours, Conditions....83
Section 3	New Contract Negotiations....83
Section 4	Subcontracting...83
x
Article XX New Job Titles or Categories
A 30 Days Advance Notice to Union....83
B Union Jurisdiction.... 8 3
C Negotiations Over Working Conditions.. ..84
D Failure to Agree on Title/Category.. ..84
Article XXI Tuition Reimbursement....84-86
Section 1	Teachers....84-86
Section 2	Clerks & Aides....86
Article XXII Peer Coaches and/or Mentor Teachers
Section 1	Educational Research and Development....87
Section 2	Teacher Assistance Programs (TAP)....87, 88
Section 3	Mentor Program....88
Section 4	In-Service Courses (National Teachers Examination)....88
Section 5	Training Workshop sponsored by NTU & NPS....88
Article XXIII	Labor History... .88
Article XXIV	Oversight Committee....89
Article XXV	Availability of Contract... .89
Article XXVI	No Strike
Section 1	Work Stoppage or Refusal to Work....89
Section 2	No Lockouts....89
Article XXVII	Conformity to Law and Savings....89
Article XXVIII	Agency Shop....90
Article XXIX	Duration....90
I
r
I
xi
MEDIATOR’S RECOMMENDATIONS
The provisions of the State Mediators recommendations not covered by the Mayor’s statement of April 16, 1971, or by the provisions agreed upon April 17th or 18th, shall be incorporated into the contract without changing the explicit meaning thereof.
All of the suggestions of the mayor, which are contained in his statement of April 16th, which have not otherwise been agreed upon, shall be incorporated into the contract without changing the explicit meaning of such suggestions.
DECLARATION OF INTENT
The Newark Public Schools and the Union declare their intent to cooperate in their common aims to achieve educational excellence in the Newark School System, and in the achievement of that objective recognize the fundamental necessities of the children and the legitimate expectations of the community.
AGREEMENT
This agreement is made and entered into effective as of the 1st day of July 2003 by and between the STATE OPERATED SCHOOL DISTRICT OF NEWARK IN THE COUNTY OF ESSEX (hereinafter referred to as the “NEWARK PUBLIC SCHOOLS” and the NEWARK TEACHERS UNION, LOCAL 481, AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS, AFL-CIO, (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”).
The expired agreement, dated July 1, 2000 through June 30, 2003, shall be renewed for a period of three (3) years effective July 1, 2003, except insofar as changed, modified, replaced, or supplemented by the items mutually signed as agreed upon in the negotiations immediately prior to and resulting in the adoption of this agreement by the District and the Union.
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION OF NTU AS BARGAINING AGENT
SECTION 1	CATEGORIES OF NTU MEMBERS
The Newark Public Schools hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective negotiations representatives pursuant to NJSA 34:13A-1 et, known as the New Jersey Employer-Employee Relations Act, for the purpose of the collective negotiations concerning the terms and conditions of employment of employees of the Newark Public Schools in the unit consisting of the following categories of employment: teachers, itinerant teachers, homebound teachers, recreation teachers, speech language specialist, athletic trainer, middle school drug and safety coordinator, job developer, middle school drug prevention and safety coordinator, prevention specialist, licensed practical nurse, literacy coach, remedial reading teachers, staff developers, librarians, drop out counselors, guidance counselors, regular teachers teaching four nights per week in Newark Evening High School, and coordinators having permanent status as teachers, resource teachers, learning disability teacher consultants, social workers, psychologists, attendance counselors, court representatives, special investigators, psychiatrists, occupational therapist, physical therapist, program assistant, research assistant, audiologist, pianist, substance abuse coordinators, clerk stenographer (school), physical therapist assistant, text book clerk and assistant text book clerk in the Newark Evening High School, but excluding department chairpersons, acting department chairpersons, head guidance counselors, teachers to assist the principal, vice principals, principals, acting vice principals, acting principals, directors, assistant superintendents, superintendents, laboratory assistants, nurses, maintenance workers, cafeteria workers, security guards, per diem substitutes with thirty (30) days non-consecutive service in the same position who are not Newark Public Schools appointed, teacher and school aides, and all permanent, acting, temporary or provisional supervisory employees.
SECTION 2	DEFINITION OF EMPLOYEE
The term “employee” as hereinafter used means a person employed by the Newark Public Schools in any positions listed as being represented by the £	Union in Section 1 of this Article. In such instances where a provision applies
I	only to certain categories of employment and not to others, the specific title of
|	the category of the employment shall be applicable and exclusive to said title
I	and category.
2
SECTION 3 EQUAL REPRESENTATION BY NTU
The Union agrees to represent equally all members of the above-defined unit.
ARTICLE II	- NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY
SECTION 1	NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY STATEMENT
The parties agree to follow a policy of not discriminating against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, color, creed, national origin, ancestry, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, military status, or membership or participation in or association with the activities of any employee organization.
SECTION 2	EMPLOYEE APPLICATION PROCESS
The Newark Public Schools agrees that employment application forms and oral interview procedures shall contain no reference to the applicant’s membership in any employee organization.
ARTICLE III	- GRIEVANCES
The prompt, informal and confidential adjustment of grievances is encouraged, and therefore the following procedure to accomplish this purpose is hereby established.
SECTION 1	DEFINITION OF GRIEVANCE
A.	DEFINITION OF GRIEVANCE
A grievance is a complaint by an employee that (1) he/she has been treated unfairly or inequitably by reason of any act or condition, including those relative to employee health and safety, which is contrary to established and prevailing policy or practice governing or affecting employees, or (2) there has been as to him/her a violation, misinterpretation or misapplication of the provisions of this Agreement or any of the existing rule, regulations or orders of The Newark Public Schools or the New Jersey State Department of Education having the force and effect of law.
B.	DEFINITION OF EMPLOYEE
As used in this Article the Term “employee” applies to an individual employee and also to a group of employees having the same grievance.
3
C.	NTU RIGHT TO INITIATE, PROCESS & APPEAL GRIEVANCES
The Union shall have the right to initiate and process grievances which may be initiated and processed by an aggrieved employee under the provision of Section 1-A of this Article, and shall have the right to appeal from the disposition of any grievance at any step.
SECTION 2	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
A.	NTU REPRESENTATION
In the presenting and processing of grievances, the employee may be represented, at their own expense, by a person of his/her own choosing, except that he/she may not be represented by any employee organizations or by an officer or representative of any employee organization other than the Union. In the event that a grievance is carried to Step 2, the Union shall be immediately notified.	;
B.	TIMELINES AND GUIDELINES FOR MEETINGS & HEARINGS
The time for a meeting or a hearing at all steps other than step 1, within the prescribed time limit, shall be fixed by mutual agreement. In all cases (subject to the provisions of Step 1 below), a representative of the Union shall have the right to be present and to present the Union’s view at each step of the grievance procedure. Any notice to be given by an employee under the provisions of j Section 2 of this Article may be given for them with their consent by the Union.
Step 1 INFORMAL CONFERENCE
The Employee, and if the employee so desires, a Union representative, shall first discuss the problem with his/her immediate administrative superior, who in the case of employees assigned to a school shall at each step of the grievance procedure be deemed to be the principal of that school.
Step 2 PRINCIPAL
If the grievance is not satisfactorily adjusted within five (5) school days after the last discussion, the employee may, with the assistance of a Union representative, if the employee so desires, submit it in writing within five (5) school days after the end of the said five (5) day period to his/her immediate superior for satisfactory adjustment, but such written grievance must be submitted to such superior in any event within thirty (30) school days following his/her becoming aware of the act or circumstance given rise to the grievance. The said immediate superior shall schedule a meeting to discuss the grievance with the employ-
4
ee and a Union representative prior to making his/her decision, but in any event he/she shall give his/her decision in writing with his/her reasons therefore to the employee, the Union, and the State District Superintendent within five (5) school days after the written grievance has been submitted to him/her by the employee.
Step 3 STATE DISTRICT SUPERINTENDENT
The employee may appeal to the State District Superintendent from the last mentioned decision of his/her immediate superior within five (5) school days after the decision has been given to the employee and the Union pursuant to the • above provisions under the caption “Step 2” by giving to the State District Superintendent and to the employee’s immediate superior, written notice of such appeal setting forth specifically the basis of the grievance. The State District Superintendent, or designee, shall meet with the employee and a Union representative within ten (10) school days after the giving of such notice of appeal, and shall give his/her decision in writing with his/her reasons therefore, to the employee, Union and the employee’s immediate superior within five (5) school days after such meeting.
Grievance hearings may also be held at the SLT Offices beginning as early as 2:30 p.m. Teachers shall not receive extra compensation for extensions of the workday caused by grievance hearings.
Step 4 ARBITRATION
A.	REQUEST FOR BINDING ARBITRATION
In the event a grievance shall not have been settled under the above procedure, the employee may have the grievance submitted to binding arbitration by giving, within ten (10) school days after the decision of the State District Superintendent has been given to the employee and the Union pursuant to the above provisions under the caption “Step 3”, to the State District Superintendent, and the Newark Public Schools, the employee’s written request for binding arbitration by the procedures and subject to the provisions set forth below.
5
B.	ARBITRATION AWARD
1.	BINDING AND ENFORCEABLE
The arbitration award shall be final and all parties shall abide by the same, and it shall be enforceable under the laws of New Jersey.
2.	SELECTION OF ARBITRATOR
The arbitrator shall be selected by mutual agreement of the Newark Public Schools and the Union except that any individual so selected shall be a bona fide resident of New Jersey and a member of the National Academy of Arbitrators with a minimum of five years experience as an arbitrator. In the event that the Newark Public Schools and the Union are unable to agree upon the selection of an Arbitrator, either of the two shall call upon the American Arbitration Association to name the arbitrator. Any individual so selected shall be required to be a bona fide resident of New Jersey.
This arbitrator shall sit for the duration of the agreement. The Arbitrator shall arrange the dates, meeting places, and agenda of any and all arbitration proceedings.
The arbitrator shall serve until he/she receives notice of termination of her/his services by either the Newark Public Schools or the Union. In such a case, a new arbitrator shall be appointed as described above. Termination shall not affect any grievance upon which a hearing has commenced.
C.	ARBITRATOR’S PANEL POWER
The arbitrator shall be empowered to hear and determine only grievances within the scope of the definition of the term “grievance” under the Section 1 of this Article. The arbitrator shall, in the performance of his/her duties, be bound by and comply with the provisions of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall have no power to add to, delete from, or modify in any way any of the provisions of this Agreement. The arbitrator’s decision shall be binding and in writing and shall set forth its opinions and conclusions on the issues submitted. The arbitrator shall have the power to make compensatory awards, where necessary, to implement decisions.
6

D.	ARBITRATOR’S LIMITS
The arbitrator shall be without power or authority to make any decision contrary to or inconsistent with, or modifying or varying in any way, the terms of this Agreement, or applicable law, or rules and regulations having the force and the effect of law.
The arbitrator’s decision shall not usurp the functions or powers of the Newark Public Schools as provided by statute.
E.	FEES AND EXPENSES FOR ARBITRATOR
Fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Newark Public Schools and the Union.
SECTION 3 GENERAL PROVISIONS
If the decision to be given by any employee’s immediate administrative superior, or the State District Superintendent in accordance with the applicable provisions under “Step 1”, “Step 2”, “Step 3” above are not given within the respective times by the said provisions specified, the employee shall have the right to proceed with her/his appeal to the next step, or in the case of the decision specified under “Step 3”, to request arbitration, by giving written notice of appeal or request for arbitration within the same time to the same parties and in the same manner as he/she would be required to give if a decision adverse to him/her had been rendered on the outside date prescribed above for rendering under “Step 2” or “3”. If the employee fails to submit his/her written grievance within the time specified in the provisions under “Step 2” above, or if he/she fails to give, within the prescribed time the written notices of appeal respectively mentioned under “Step 3” above, or if he/she fails to give within the prescribed time written notice of the request for arbitration mentioned under “Step 4” above, the grievance shall be deemed to have been waived.
Time limits specified in Section 2 of this Article as to things to be done at any step may be extended by agreement between the parties.
A.	NOTIFICATION OF TIMELINES
Any written notice to be given under Section 2 by the employee to her/his superior or to the State District Superintendent may given by hand, or by leaving it with a person in charge of the office of such superior or of the State District Superintendent, or by mailing it by certified mail, return receipt,
7
requested, addressed to such superior or to the State District Superintendent, at their respective offices. Such notice to be given by the employee to the Newark Public Schools may be given by mailing it certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the Newark Public Schools at 2 Cedar Street, Newark, New Jersey, or by leaving it with a person in charge at the Office of
Newark Public Schools Affairs at the same address. Any notice of decisions to be given to the employee may be given by hand or by mailing it by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to her/him at his/her home address as shown in the Newark Public Schools’ records. Any notice or decision to be given to the Union may be given by hand to the President of the Union, or by mailing it by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the Union at its offices. The date of mailing shall be counted as the date of giving notices to be given by the employee, by his/her superior, the State District Superintendent, or the Newark Public Schools under Section 2 of this Article, but if a notice or decision of the employee’s superior, or the State District Superintendent is given to the employee by certified mail, the time within which the employee may give notice of appeal as provided under “Step 3”, or notice of request for arbitration as provided under “Step 4” above shall be increased by two (2) days.
B.	PERSONS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE
Persons proper to be present for the purpose of this Article are defined as the aggrieved, the appropriate Union and Newark Public Schools representative and witnesses. When hearings are held during school hours, persons proper to be present shall be excused without loss of pay.
C.	GRIEVANCES ARISING FROM CENTRAL OFFICE ADMINISTRATORS
A grievance arising from the action of a Supervisor, Director, Coordinator attached to the Central Office, Associate to Assistant State District Superintendent or Assistant State District Superintendents, will first be discussed with that official and if not resolved informally, it may be processed in accordance with Step “3” or “4” above.
D.	NTU ARBITRATION CHOICES
Nothing in this contract shall be construed as compelling the Union to submit a grievance to arbitration.
8
E.	REPRISALS AGAINST PARTICIPANTS NOT ALLOWED
No reprisals of any kind shall be taken against any participants in the grievance procedure by reason of such participation.
F.	MUTUALLY AGREED TIME LIMITS
In the event that a grievance is carried to “Step 2”, the Union shall be immediately notified. The time for a meeting or a hearing at all steps other than Step “1”, within the prescribed time limits, shall be fixed by mutual agreement. Such hearing must take place within the time limit provided in this step.
G.	YEAR END GRIEVANCES
In the event that a grievance is initiated close to the end of the school year, every effort will be made to resolve the grievance prior to the end of the school year.
H.	GRIEVANCES AND PERSONNEL FILES, PROMOTIONS AND JOB PLACEMENTS
Official grievances shall not be placed in the personnel file of the employee, nor shall they be utilized in the promotional process or any recommendation for job placement.
I.	GRIEVANCE FORMS
A form for the appropriate filing of a grievance shall be mutually agreed to by the parties and made available in the office of the principal in every school.
ARTICLE IV - NTU RIGHTS
SECTION 1	LEAVE FOR UNION SERVICE
The Newark Public Schools shall grant leave of absence to members of the bargaining unit upon their personal request and that of the Union to work for the Union, the New Jersey State Federation of Teachers, or the American Federation of Teachers. No more than seven (7) such leaves of absence shall be granted at any one time. Such leaves shall be granted for a period of not more than one academic year and shall be renewed upon request by the employee and certification by the Union.
9

When any individual granted such leave of absence returns to regular employment with the Newark Public Schools he/she shall be placed on the step of the salary schedule that he/she would have attained had he/she been continuously employed during such absence. There shall be no loss of seniority or any other right available to him/her under the law or the terms of this agreement because of such leave of absence.
The period of the leave shall not be included in computing length of service for the time required to attain tenure.
Any employee granted such leave of absence shall have the right to have maintained, on the same basis of all employees, any employee health plan available to Newark Public Schools employees for hospital costs, medical-surgical benefits, major medical insurance, and any other such benefits upon regular payment on his/her behalf to the Assistant State District Superintendent, Office of Newark Public Schools Affairs of amounts sufficient to cover the cost to the Newark Public Schools for continued participation in such employee health plans, provided the Newark Public School’s insurers will permit it.
SECTION 2	CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS ON SCHOOL TIME
The Union and the Newark Public Schools will mutually agree upon a time for ■	negotiations. Members of the Union negotiating committee shall be granted
administrative leave with pay if negotiations take place on school time. No more than five (5) employees shall have the right to receive pay under this provision. They shall be granted administrative leave with pay the day following a negotiating session if the session lasts past 11 p.m. Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed to require the Newark Public Schools to negotiate during school hours or after 11 p.m.
SECTION 3	NTU BULLETIN BOARDS
The Newark Public Schools shall provide a separate bulletin board or a separate section of a larger bulletin board of adequate size, but not less than nine (9) square feet, for the exclusive use of the Union in an easily visible position in the ;	main office of every school building, or some other location by mutual agree-
>	ment if office space is inadequate. The Union agrees that it will at no time use
such space for posting any materials that are unethical, unprofessional, in violative of law.
10
SECTION 4	NTU MEETINGS
A.	REP - STAFF MEETINGS
The Union shall have the right to have meetings of the employees of any school prior to the beginning of the school day, during the employee’s lunch period, and after the closing of school upon timely notification to the school principal. Principals shall be required to cooperate with the Union to facilitate the holding of such meeting despite relatively short notice whenever circumstances so dictate. Principals shall provide for proper meeting facilities in accordance with such request without charge to the Union, provided that this use of meeting facilities shall in no way interfere with previously scheduled school programs, and activities. No principal or other administrator of said school shall schedule any activity or program which will interfere with the conduct of said Union meeting after the meeting has been formally scheduled, except in cases of emergency. In case of such an emergency, the principal shall furnish a written explanation of the nature of such emergency to the State District Superintendent and the Union.
B.	GENERAL MEMBERSHIP MEETINGS
The State District Superintendent shall, upon timely notification by the Union, grant to the Union the use of facilities in school buildings after school hours for the purpose of conducting general membership meetings. Such use must terminate no later that 6:00 p.m. Such use shall be granted provided that the use of the facilities shall not be in conflict with previously scheduled programs and activities. No more than twenty (20) such meetings per year may be required. There shall be no fee for the use of such facilities.
SECTION 5	MEETING WITH PRINCIPALS
A.	BUILDING REP MEETINGS WITH PRINCIPAL
Meetings between the principal and a Union representative for each school shall be held at the Union’s request, not less often than once each month on a school day for one class period when the school is in session to discuss matters affecting the welfare of employees and children and the operations of the school, and any question relating to the implementation at the school of any Newark Public Schools policy or the provisions of this Agreement.
B.	BUILDING REP MEETING GUIDELINES
If any such meeting is held during school hours, representatives of the Union shall be released from active duty for a period of not more than one class peri-
od to attend said meeting, the representatives to be determined on the following basis: in addition to the school building representative, one additional representative shall be released for each 25 faculty members. The total number released, including the building representative, shall not exceed 5, nor shall this number be less than 2. There shall be no such limitation of numbers for meetings held at any time after school hours, or at any time when school is not in session.
C.	INDIVIDUAL SCHOOL POLICIES
Individual school policies shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement.
SECTION 6	AVAILABILITY OF NPS PUBLIC RECORDS & DATA
The Newark Public Schools shall, on request, make available to the Union the Newark Public Schools official public records and educational statistical data and information in the Newark Public Schools’ possession which is not confidential, work product, or dissemination of which is prohibited by law.
SECTION 7	DISTRIBUTION OF NTU LITERATURE IN SCHOOLS
The Union shall have the right to place material dealing with proper and legitimate Union business in the employee’s mailboxes.
SECTION 8	DISTRICT - NTU MEETINGS
Meetings shall be scheduled between the Newark Public Schools and the Union to discuss matters of mutual concern in terms of educational policy, the implementation of this Agreement, and any other topics consistent with the objective stated that in the Declaration of Intent of this Agreement. No more than five (5) such meetings may be required in any school year by either party to this Agreement, but additional meetings may be held by agreement between the I	Union and the Newark Public Schools.
At least five (5) school days prior to the holding of each such meeting, the Union will meet with the State District Superintendent to review the topics to be discussed. In the event that law or existing Newark Public Schools policy places one or more of the topics to be discussed under the discretionary jurisdiction and prerogative of the State District Superintendent, the State District Superintendent may undertake, in cooperation with the Union, to dispose of questions raised with reference thereto without waiting for further action by the Newark Public Schools.
12
it i
SECTION 9	SCHOOL VISITS BY NTU OFFICIALS/REPRESENTATIVES
A.	NTU MEMBER CONFERENCES
The Newark Public Schools shall permit the President of the Union or one of the Union liaison officers to visit the schools. The union representative should make known her/his presence to the appropriate authority in the school. Conferences with teachers, should they become necessary, shall be scheduled so as not to interfere with or disrupt normal school functions.
B.	CLASSROOM VISIT BY UNION OFFICIALS
Union officials shall be permitted to visit in the classroom of any teacher who so requests. Union officials, not employed by the Newark Public Schools, shall be permitted to visit classroom teachers who shall request such visitations, providing that the visiting official informs the building principal of the intent to visit prior to entering the classroom, and providing that no Newark Public Schools observation shall be conducted at the same time.
C.	NOTICE TO BUILDING REP OF CENTRAL ADMINISTRATORS’ VISITS
The school clerk shall immediately notify the NTU Building Representative when central office administrators and supervisors are present in the school building.
D.	ARREST OF NTU MEMBER ON SCHOOL PROPERTY
The Newark Public Schools agrees to notify the Newark Teachers Union Representative of any arrest of a member of the bargaining unit, which takes place on school property. Notification to the NTU Rep. will take place as soon as possible but prior to the end of the school day.
SECTION 10	NTU REPRESENTATION AT BOARD MEETINGS
The Newark Public Schools shall furnish to the Union three (3) copies of the agenda of each Board meeting twenty-four (24) hours prior to each Advisory Board meeting or at the same time when such copies of the agenda are made available to the Board members, whichever is sooner. The Union shall be allowed a period of ten (10) minutes to present at the conference meeting its views. Additionally, the Union may be heard as to any items affecting school welfare during that period of the Board’s public meeting devoted to the presentation of statements by individuals and organizations. The NTU President, or designee, shall be listed within the first ten (10) inclusive speakers on that portion of the Newark Public Schools action meeting devoted to discussion on
13
general topics. This provision shall remain in effect during the life of this Agreement.
SECTION 11	LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR UNION CONVENTIONS
A.	AFT, NJ AFL-CIO AND NJ SFT CONVENTIONS
Leave of absence without loss of pay to attend conventions of the AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS, the NEW JERSEY STATE AFL-CIO, the NEW JERSEY STATE FEDERATION OF TEACHERS, other labor organizations, not exceeding five (5) days in any one year (per individual), nor ten (10) individuals per convention shall be granted to duly qualified representatives of the Union.
B.	LEGISLATIVE AND GOVERNMENT BODIES
Administrative leaves of absence without loss of pay to attend meetings of the Newark Municipal, Essex County, New Jersey State or Federal Legislative bodies may be granted to duly qualified representatives of the Newark Teachers Union upon written request by the Union to the State District Superintendent. Such requests, limited to two (2) NTU representatives per meeting, shall be received by registered mail with a return receipt requested in the Office of the State District Superintendent at least two weeks prior to the date of the meeting and the State District Superintendent shall make a timely response to the Union. If no response from the State District Superintendent is received by the Union by the day prior to the meeting, the absence of a response shall mean approval.
C.	NUMBER OF DAYS AVAILABLE
In any school year the total number of days available to all such representatives collectively, no matter how distributed among those to who days are granted pursuant to the foregoing, shall not exceed an aggregate of more than fifty (50) days.
D.	LIMITATIONS ON REPRESENTATIVES
In no instance shall there be more than two individuals from the same school attending the above mentioned conventions at the same time under the provisions of this Article.
Il
14
SECTION 12	DUES DEDUCTION
The Newark Public Schools agrees to continue to deduct from the salary of its employees dues for the Union, as said employees individually and voluntarily authorize the Newark Public Schools. The Newark Public Schools will remit dues deducted from members (supported by a schedule, listing names and amounts) within fourteen (14) days of the payday.
SECTION 13	AGENCY ASSESSMENT
Upon receipt of proper authorization, the Newark Public Schools agrees to deduct from the salary of teachers, in equal installments, monies for American Federation of Teachers, New Jersey State Federation of Teachers or Newark Teachers Union Insurance Programs.
SECTION 14	SUPER SENIORITY
Super seniority shall be defined as being placed at the head of all applicable seniority lists, where not inconsistent with Title 18 A and the laws of the State of New Jersey. Such status shall apply during the term of any officer, executive board member, and no more than one (1) building representative at each school location designated by the NTU President. Such designees shall be accorded super seniority for the period of time they serve the Union, and their names shall be forwarded to the State District Superintendent by November 1st of each year.
SECTION 15	USE OF SCHOOL PHONE FOR NTU BUSINESS
All NTU Building Representatives and Officers may use the school phone at appropriate times, for local calls only in order to conduct Union and/or Newark Public Schools business.
SECTION 16	REASONABLE NOTICE FOR SCHOOL CLOSING
The Union shall be given reasonable notice prior to a school closing, delayed opening of school and early dismissal of school due to an emergency or inclement weather conditions.

ARTICLE V- GENERAL CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
SECTION 1	FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICE
A.	TENURE EMPLOYMENT PRACTICE
No tenured employees shall be either suspended or discharged except in strict compliance with Title 18A of the Laws of the State of New Jersey.
B.	NON-TENURED NOTIFICATION DATE
The Newark Public Schools shall notify a non-tenured teacher on or before May 15th of his/her employment year if his/her employment will not be renewed for the next ensuing school year.
SECTION 2	SCHOOL CALENDAR
A.	INSERVICE DAYS
The scheduling of in-service days shall be limited to the months of September, October, January, February, March and April. In-service days will not be scheduled on the day immediately preceding or following holidays or recess. In-service days will not be scheduled during a multi-day student recess or Saturday. The in-service days will be listed in the school calendar. Attendance on in-service days is mandatory.
B.	WORK YEAR
1.	There shall be scheduled no more than 180 pupil days and 188 workdays for employees covered by this Agreement, except as noted in Article V, Section 2, C and D.
1 Organization Day
180 Student Days
7 In-service Days
2.	Instructional days may be either full length or minimum length, 1:00 p.m. student dismissal at the discretion of the Newark Public Schools. Employees may be required to remain until the normal employee departure time, including after-school meeting time, on minimum length instructional days. These days will not be scheduled on Fridays or the day before a holiday. These days will be an exception to the provisions of Article V, Section 3, B2. The Superintendent or her/his designee will issue a minimum of two (2) weeks advanced notice of the 1:00 p.m. student dismissal for teacher training.
16
3.	There shall be 1:00 p.m. student and employee dismissal on the last student day preceding Thanksgiving and Christmas.
4.	At least three of the annual in-service days will be designated by the district to qualify for the one hundred hours of State mandated professional development for teachers.
C.	ORIENTATION DAY
Teachers who were not employed by the Newark Public Schools during the previous school year may be required to report one (1) day immediately prior to the organization day for orientation. This day should be the same day as the day listed in Article V, Section 2, D.
D.	NEW TEACHER ORIENTATION
All teachers new to the Newark School System shall be required to attend, without additional compensation, two (2) full day orientation sessions.
The orientation sessions will be held on the Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday immediately preceding Labor Day each year. The purpose of the orientation days shall be to inform new teachers of system wide policies, practices, and procedures related to their jobs and/or employment.
Teachers in their first year of teaching may be required to attend one (1) meeting per month, up to two (2) hours in length, conducted by the Central Office or the SLT for the purposes set forth herein.
E.	SCHOOL CALENDAR
In accordance with prior practice, the school calendar for employees during the term contract will be set during the editing of the contract.
The Newark Public Schools and the Union agree to follow the aforementioned practice of setting of the calendar in the event of a multi year agreement no later than each April 1st, for the ensuing contract year.
Nothing herein shall limit the right and responsibility of the Newark Public Schools to adopt a calendar.
17
For School Calendars 2004-2005 and 2005-2006, refer to the Newark Teachers Union Pocket Calendar for each respective school year. Emergency school closing days that require rescheduling to meet the 180 day school year statutory mandate will be rescheduled at the end of the school year, or if necessary, during Spring recess.
SECTION 3 TEACHER SCHEDULES AND THE SCHOOL DAY
A. NTU BUILDING REPRESENTATIVES - PREP PERIOD
One (1) properly designated NTU Building Representative in each school shall be scheduled for one (1) administrative period of forty (40) minutes per week so that he/she may effectively provide representation to members of the bargaining unit. A properly designated representative is a representative whose appointment has been confirmed in writing to the State District Superintendent by the NTU President.
The activities of the NTU Building Representative shall be confined during the administrative period to the school and shall not interfere with the normal operations and activities of the school and its personnel.
IB.	ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS
1.	SIGN-IN TIME
In all elementary schools, teachers and other instructional employees should sign in at the office of the school no later than five (5) minutes prior to the time they are scheduled to be at their assigned stations at the beginning of the school
I	day. They shall be expected to report to their assigned stations as provided
below in sub-section 3.
MB ||b
I	2. END OF DAY
Teachers shall be free to leave at their discretion at the time specified in subsection 3, except on the early dismissal days that precede holidays when teach-।	ers shall be permitted to leave ten (10) minutes after classes end.
I
18
I
I
I
3.	REGULAR DAY SCHEDULE FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS (Effective September 1, 2004)
The regular schedule of elementary school shall be as indicated below.
ELEMENTARY DAY
Teachers arrive	8:20	AM
Teachers report to assigned stations	8:25
Pupils arrive	8:25
Formal instruction begins	8:35
Lunch period equal to that of students
Classes end	2:50	PM
Students dismissed	2:55
Teachers depart	3:05
Teachers sign out as indicated in B2 above.
4.	SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
It is recognized that special circumstances in particular schools may require variations from the schedule. When such cases occur, the specific variations shall be made after negotiations between the Union and the Newark Public Schools, or its designee. However, in case of such variations, the total hours of service in the school day shall neither be increased nor decreased. The hours of the teacher’s school day shall be consecutive in all cases.
5.	REGULAR DAY SCHEDULE FOR TEACHERS OF PART-TIME CLASSES
In the case of teachers of part-time classes, the hours of service for those on a morning or afternoon session shall be four (4) hours of instruction. Teachers shall be entitled to a duty-free lunch period, which shall be fifty (50) minutes in duration. In addition to the four (4) hours of instruction rendered to the part-time classes, teachers shall report for teaching or appropriate professional service for one and one half (154) hours in the morning or afternoon, fifty (50) minutes and which shall be considered preparation time. The additional service of one and one half (154) hours shall be scheduled by the principal in accordance with the specific situations, which obtain in each school when such classes are scheduled.
19
6.	PREPARATION PERIODS FOR ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
. EMPLOYEES
Employees shall have those periods during which specialists cover their classes set aside for preparation. All elementary school employees shall have at least three (3) fifty (50) minute preparation periods each week.
C.	SPECIAL SCHOOLS AND SPECIAL CLASSES
1.	HOURS OF SERVICE FOR SPECIAL SCHOOLS
OR CLASSES
In special schools or special classes, the hours of service of teachers shall be the same as that specified in caption B-3 of this Article and Section, except that in any cases where the lunch period is part of the instructional program of the specific class taught by the teacher, and teaching situations makes it desirable that the teacher eat lunch with pupils, and such arrangements have been made by agreement between the teacher and Principal, the lunch period shall be included as part of the teaching day and such classes will be dismissed at 2:25 p.m. Said teacher may sign out at their discretion after their students have been dismissed from the building. Adjustments for special schedules and the hours of service of teachers of part-time classes in special schools or special classes shall be set up on the same basis as that in caption B-5 of this Article and Section.
2.	PREPARATION PERIODS IN SPECIAL SCHOOLS
In special schools, all teachers shall receive the same number of preparation periods as provided to elementary school teachers.
3.	TEACHERS WHO VOLUNTEER TO WORK BEYOND THE WORK DAY
Teacher(s) who volunteer to work beyond their work day to supervise students awaiting their buses will be paid on a prorate basis of 1/200th of their annual salary for time worked.
j Illi
20
i	I
■II	I 111
D.	SECONDARY SCHOOLS
1.	SIGN-IN TIME
Teachers in junior and senior high schools shall be expected to sign in at the beginning of the scheduled day no later than five (5) minutes prior to either the beginning of the homeroom period or Period 1, whichever comes first.
2.	END OF DAY
Teachers shall be free to leave at their discretion at the time specified in subsection 3, except on the early dismissal days that precede holidays when teachers shall be permitted to leave ten (10) minutes after classes end.
3.	REGULAR DAY SCHEDULE (Effective September 1, 2004) The in-school work day for teachers in the junior and senior high schools shall be six (6) hours and thirty (30) minutes. The work day shall include the equivalent of five (5) teaching periods, one (1) service period, one (1) preparation period, one (1) lunch period and one (1) homeroom.
SECONDARY DAY
Teachers arrive	8:10	AM
Teachers report to assigned	stations	8:15
Homeroom or period 1	begins	8:20
Lunch period equal to that of students
Classes end	2:40	PM
Teachers depart	2:50
4.	SPECIAL ADJUSTMENTS TO SCHEDULES
Because of special adjustments necessary in the schedule planning of specific junior and senior high schools, variations in the schedule stated under caption D-2 of this Article and Section shall be permissible. In such cases, as early prior to the close of school, but no later than June 1, such variations in schedule shall be negotiated between the Newark Public Schools and the Union. Prior thereto, the principal of the specific school and the Union representative for that school shall meet and prepare a schedule to submit to the Union and the State District Superintendent or his/her designee. If after five (5) school days following the delivery of said schedule, neither the Union nor the State District Superintendent has indicated disapproval, said schedule shall be considered to have been agreed upon by both parties. In the event of a disagreement by either party or both, the Union and the State District Superintendent shall conduct further negotiations.
21
In cases of such special adjustments, the total number of working hours for a teacher shall in no case exceed those of the schedule contained in caption D-2 of this Article and Section. The hours of the teacher’s school day shall be consecutive in all cases. If a teacher in any school with a special schedule reports after the initial Homeroom period or period 1 (as the case may be), the teacher need sign in only five minutes before reporting to his first assignment.
Regardless of any variations of schedule, each teacher shall have a duty free lunch period equal in length to that of the students and a preparation period included within his/her schedule.
5.	BLOCK SCHEDULING (Effective September 1, 2004) Secondary teachers assigned to block schedules will be assigned two (2) teaching blocks in the fall semester and three (3) teaching blocks in the spring semester or vice-versa.
Service or duty assignments shall be staggered so that teachers have two (2) assignments in the semester with two (2) teaching blocks and zero (0) assignments in semesters with three (3) teaching blocks. Teachers shall not be scheduled to teach more than two (2) consecutive blocks. Teachers may volunteer to teach three (3) consecutive blocks.
E.	PER-DIEM SUBSTITUTE DAILY SCHEDULE
In assigning the per-diem substitute to her/his day’s schedule, that substitute shall replace in full the service of the regular teacher for whom he/she is substituting. If the schedule of the regular teacher requires less teaching time than is regularly assigned to the teachers under the agreement, he/she may be given any assignment proper to per-diem substitute teachers for the extra time.
In any per-diem substitute’s daily schedule in a secondary school the preparation period and the service period may be inter-changed one for the other at the discretion of the principal.
22
F.	ABSENTEEISM AND TARDINESS
1.	REPORTING AND FAILING TO REPORT ABSENCES
All teachers are required to report their absence one hour prior to the scheduled sign-in time. Failure to report an absence as required will result in the deduction of one day’s pay.
2.	LATE ARRIVAL TO SCHOOL
In the event a teacher calls to report a late arrival, salary for that teacher will be deducted in accordance with time missed based upon their current rate of pay. Should a teacher fail to report to their assignment one half hour after the official sign-in time that teacher will be considered absent for that day.
3.	ABSENCE BEFORE AND AFTER A HOLIDAY
All employees are required to work the last scheduled working day before and the next scheduled working day following the scheduled holiday(s). Failure to report before and after the scheduled holiday shall result in loss of pay for said occurrence.
4.	EXCEPTIONS:
Personal day, extended sick leave, and short term sick leave. In the case of short term sick leave the employee must submit medical certification from a licensed physician or hospital, including a diagnosis, verifying that he/she was either physically unable to perform his/her duties or that he/she was carrying a contagious disease on the day(s) of absence. The medical certificate must be submitted to the Department of Health Services within 3 working days of the date the employee returns to work.
SECTION 4	CLASS ASSIGNMENTS AND OPEN HOUSE
A.	CLASS ASSIGNMENTS
1.	NUMBER OF SUBJECTS AND PREP PERIODS REQUIRED No teacher, in a school with departmental organization or a secondary school, shall generally be required to teach more than two subjects, nor be assigned to any more than two preparations. If an additional preparation is required daily, the teacher shall be given two (2) additional preparation periods weekly.
23
2.	ROOM ASSIGNMENTS
Exclusive of teachers assigned to teach in more than one (1) school, whenever possible, teachers shall not be assigned to teach in more than two rooms and efforts shall be made to have such rooms in as close proximity to each other as can be scheduled. Whenever teachers are required to share a room, all the facilities of that room shall be available equally to each teacher who uses it.
3.	NOTICE OF TEACHER SCHEDULE PRIOR TO END OF YEAR
Prior to the close of school in June, teachers shall be notified what their schedules will be in September. It shall be understood that such schedules are subject to change based upon changed conditions, which may occur between the close of school in June and their reopening in September. If a change is necessitated, the teacher shall be notified forthwith.
4.	EXCUSED FROM SPECIFIC DUTIES
In such cases in a school where it is practical to excuse some teachers from certain specific duties such as homeroom and other special assignments, such exemptions shall be rotated based on equitable standards which shall include the seniority of the teacher, previous exemption, and the physical health of teachers as factors.
5.	CONSECUTIVE ASSIGNMENTS LIMITED TO THREE No teacher in a departmental arrangement shall be assigned to more than three consecutive assignments except when emergency circumstances necessitate it or upon the written request of the teacher to the principal of the school. Lunch periods and preparation periods shall not be considered assignments for the purpose of this paragraph.
6.	TEACHING CLASS ASSIGNMENTS
A.	SECONDARY/JR HIGH TEACHING CLASSES PER DAY In high schools and junior high schools, no teacher shall be assigned to more than five (5) teaching classes per day unless there is an equal reduction of teaching classes on other days. The preparation period of secondary school teachers shall not be considered a free period. If the need arises, the employee may leave the building with the permission of the principal or appropriate authority.
24
B.	CLASS COVERAGE COMPENSATION
In case of emergency, which shall include an unavailability of sufficient per diem substitutes on a particular day, teachers in school, elementary, secondary, or special, shall be permitted during their preparation periods, if they so elect to volunteer, to substitute for an absent teacher. Any teacher performing such duties shall be compensated on the basis of one-fifth (1 /5 th) of the per diem substitute rate.
7.	POSTING OF SCHEDULES
Schedules of all personnel shall be available to all teachers and shall be posted on the teachers’ bulletin board of each school or on bulletin boards in teacher lounges in each school.
8.	PREPARATION PERIODS DEFINED
Preparation periods shall not be considered free periods. Preparation periods shall be devoted to the preparation of teaching materials, conferring with parents, students, principal, or other staff members.
B.	OPEN HOUSE: EVENING SCHOOL MEETINGS
As part of their professional services all teachers shall be required to attend Back-to-School Night and Parent Conferences which shall be scheduled at the beginning of the school.
All teaching staff members shall be required to remain in school following the conclusion of the student day for the purpose of conducting parent conferences two (2) times per school year. The parent conference days shall be scheduled on minimum length student days, one (1) conference day will be scheduled in the fall semester and one (1) day in the spring semester.
The parent conference time shall begin fifteen (15) minutes after the students depart and shall end not later than seven PM. Food service shall be available for the teaching staff members in the school.
The parent conferences shall be scheduled through collaboration among the teacher, the administrator and the parent.
25
SECTIONS S	ENIORITY
A.	DEFINITION
Seniority shall be defined as the length of time in the Newark public schools as a full-time, paid employee including service as a regularly appointed teacher, a long-term substitute and/or an administrator.
B.	STANDARDS FOR DETERMINING SENIORITY
Standards for determining seniority NJAC 6:3-5.1 Seniority, pursuant to N.J.S.A. 18A:29-9 et seq., shall be determined according to the number of academic or calendar years of employment, or fraction thereof, as the case may be, in the school district in specific categories as hereinafter provided. The periods of unpaid absences not exceeding 30 calendar days aggregate in one academic or calendar year, leaves of absence at full or partial pay and unpaid absences granted for study or research shall be credited toward seniority. All other unpaid absences or leaves of absence shall not receive seniority credit.
C.	LENGTH OF SERVICE
In computing length of service for seniority purposes, full recognition shall be given to previous years of service within the district and the time of service in or with the military or naval forces of the United States or this State, pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 18A:28-12.
Where a question of seniority is a factor in a dispute, the seniority of the parties involved shall be available to the disputants.
SECTION 6	ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER
A.	VOLUNTARY TRANSFERS FROM SCHOOL TO SCHOOL
1.	JUNE 1ST VACANCIES LISTED
On or about June 1st of every year and at such other times as are practical, the Human Resources Department shall prepare tentative lists of anticipated vacancies for the following academic year in the various schools. Such lists shall be posted on the bulletin board made available for the use of the Union in each school.
26
I
2.	APPLICATIONS FOR TRANSFER
Employees who wish to make application for transfer or assignment to any such vacancies shall submit their requests in writing to the Department of Personnel and such applications shall include in order of preference, the school or schools, subject or grade level desired.
3.	REASON FOR NOT TRANSFERRING
Upon request, any employee who has applied for but not been granted a transfer, will be given an explanation, in writing, by the Human Resources Department.
B.	REASSIGNMENTS WITHIN A SCHOOL
1.	NOTIFICATION TO PRINCIPAL
Prior to May 1st in each academic year, employees within a school who desire reassignment within that same school shall so notify their principals in writing of their preference for reassignment with that school.
C.	INVOLUNTARY TRANSFERS FROM SCHOOL TO SCHOOL
1.	TRANSFERS
When an involuntary transfer or reassignment is being recommended, the principal shall meet with the teacher involved, no later than June 15, whenever possible, to notify the teacher of the reason for the recommended transfer or reassignment. If requested, the reason for the recommended transfer or reassignment shall be given to the teacher, in writing, by the principal within five (5) schools days of the meeting.
2.	WRITTEN REASON
Upon request, the Human Resources Department shall furnish the employee who has been transferred an explanation, in writing, for said transfer.
27

SECTION 7	NECESSARY DUTIES
Necessary duties, which the Newark Public Schools can assign by contract right to covered employees, other than professional work, shall be limited to the following.
A.	ELEMENTARY/MIDDLE SCHOOL TEACHERS
1.	MEETING STUDENTS
Elementary/middle school teachers shall be assigned to lead their classes to the classroom from the building entrance.
2.	PLAYGROUND DUTY
Up to three (3) teachers per school day may be assigned (volunteers are preferred) to supervise the playground prior to the start of the school day. Playground duty shall begin at 8:05 AM. Teachers assigned to AM playground duty may depart at the student departure time on the day(s) the teacher is assigned to the AM playground duty. Teachers shall be assigned to playground duty based on district-wide seniority whenever there are insufficient volunteers.
3.	VOLUNTEERING
A.	FOR CAFETERIA / PLAYGROUND DUTY
In elementary/middle schools, teachers may volunteer for cafeteria/playground duty during the teacher’s duty free lunch period. Any teacher who volunteers for cafeteria/playground duty during his/her duty free lunch period for a full school year shall be paid two thousand dollars ($2,000). Assignments for part of the year shall be pro-rated.
B.	POSTING NOTICES AND ASSIGNMENTS
Volunteers shall be sought by posting a notice on the bulletin boards in the building. Assignments will only be available in the building in which the teacher teaches. Time sheets for elementary cafeteria/playground duty shall be submitted at the end of the second and fourth marking periods.
28
B.	SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS
1.	MONITORING TEACHERS DURING CLASSES
The principal of their school shall require secondary school teachers to stand outside the door to their individual classroom, between classes, to monitor the passing of students from class to class.
2.	CAFETERIA DUTY
Teachers in the junior and senior high schools may volunteer to perform cafeteria duty as their service assignment. To the maximum extent possible, teachers who volunteer for cafeteria duty will have their preparation period scheduled during either the first or last period of the day. If the teacher so elects, he/she will be permitted to arrive or depart at the end or beginning of his/her preparation period provided all other contractual requirements are met including, but not limited to, attendance at meetings.
C.	SERVICE PERIODS
A teacher shall have five (5) service periods or the teacher may volunteer for two (2) hall duties, one (1) service period and two (2) preparation periods.
D.	DUTY FREE LUNCH PERIOD
Every teacher shall be provided with a duty-free lunch period equal to that of the students.
SECTION 8	TEACHER PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND PERSONNEL FILES
A.	SIGNED NOTICE OF EVALUATION
Members of the supervisory and administrative staff, authorized and competent to make such evaluations, shall regularly evaluate teachers’ performance. When such evaluations involve visitation, it shall be done openly and with the knowledge of the employee being observed. The individual who makes the evaluation shall sign every written evaluation of the performance of any employee.
29
B.	EVALUATION
Teachers shall be rated Distinguished, Proficient, Basic or Unsatisfactory. If rated Unsatisfactory, it is the obligation of the supervisor to make specific recommendations for improvement and provide assistance to the teacher. After a reasonable time, the supervisor shall re-evaluate the teacher. In the event of a strong difference of opinion, the teacher evaluated Unsatisfactory may request evaluation be made by another supervisor from within the system.
C.	OBSERVATIONS/EVALUATION CONFERENCES
Observation/evaluation conferences shall be held within ten (10) calendar days of the classroom visit. The ten (10) days may be extended by the number of days that either party is absent.
D.	ELECTRONIC MONITORING OR RECORDING PROHIBITED
The Newark Public Schools will continue its practice and policy not to use any type of mechanical or electronic device for the purpose of monitoring or recording the performance of any employee.
E.	OPPORTUNITY TO READ
Evaluations shall not be placed in the teacher’s file unless the teacher has had the opportunity to read the material. The teacher shall acknowledge that he has read such material by affixing his/her signature on the copy to be filed. Such signature shall merely signify that he/she has read the material and is not to be construed that he/she necessarily agrees with its contents. If the teacher refuses to sign, that fact shall be noted, dated and witnessed.
F.	COPY OF EVALUATION TO TEACHER
Teachers shall be given a carbon copy of each evaluation.
G.	RIGHT TO INSPECT FILE
Any employee represented by the Union shall have the right to inspect all items in their personnel file. They shall also have the right to include in their file any information or material which he/she considers germane. Documents of anonymous origin shall not be placed in the employee’s personnel file and shall not be used against the employee.
30
H.	CONFIDENTIAL FILES
The Newark Public Schools agrees to continue its policy of treating these personnel files confidential.
I.	REVISION OF FORMS
The Newark Public Schools and the Union agree to set up a committee to include administrators and supervisors appointed by the State District Superintendent and teachers appointed by the Union to review and make recommendations for the revision of all currently used employee evaluation procedures.
J.	UNSATISFACTORY RATINGS
A teacher who receives an unsatisfactory rating on their observation and/or evaluation report may request, in writing, and shall receive, a demonstration lesson, within ten (10) working days of the request.
SECTION 9	TEACHER FACILITIES
Each school shall have the following facilities:
A.	CLASSROOM STORAGE SPACE
Space in each classroom in which teachers may safely store personal belongings, instructional materials and supplies.
B.	TEACHER WORKROOM
Wherever adequate space is available, a teacher workroom shall be provided containing appropriate equipment and supplies to accomplish the teacher’s work.
C.	FACULTY LOUNGE WITH TELEPHONE
A clean, attractive, appropriately furnished room equipped with a telephone shall be provided as a faculty lounge where space is available. Such lounges shall be provided in all newly constructed school buildings.
D.	TEACHER RESTROOM
Well-lighted and clean teacher rest rooms.
31
TT.-
E.	COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
A communication system which permits teachers to communicate with the main school building office from their classrooms shall be installed in all new buildings, and such communications as exist shall be maintained in good order.
F.	SECURITY GUARD
Each school shall have at least one security guard during the school day.
G.	EXCLUDING INTRUDERS FROM SCHOOL GROUNDS
The Newark Public Schools agrees that all laws and ordinances intended to exclude intruders shall be strictly enforced in the school buildings and grounds by the principal.
H.	UNFIT CLASSROOM CONDITIONS
The Newark Public Schools and the Union agree that whenever the hygienic and/or physical conditions of a classroom seem unfit to the teacher of that classroom, to the point of being intolerable said teacher shall so notify the principal. The principal shall evaluate the nature of the situation forthwith.
She/he shall determine whether said conditions are, in fact, tolerable or intolerable.
If the situation can be corrected by staff under the principal’s immediate supervision, he/she shall arrange to have it done so at once.
If the condition cannot be corrected by the Principal’s immediate staff and the principal further determines that the conditions are so intolerable as to constitute an emergency, then the principal shall shift the class to a more suitable temporary location in that building.
The appropriate Assistant State District Superintendent and the office of the Assistant State District Superintendent in charge of Physical Facilities shall be notified immediately.
I.	CHILD STUDY TEAM FACILITIES
The administrator of each school, to the full extent possible in terms of facilities available in the building, shall make every effort to ensure that psychologists, social workers and learning disability teacher consultants shall be
32
I __________________________________________

enabled to do their work in that building in an atmosphere of privacy, functional facilities, and space for secure maintenance of confidential records.
SECTION 10	FACULTY MEETINGS
All meetings of school facilities and departments shall be conducted after regular hours, so as not to impinge upon instructional time of students. The principal in the secondary and elementary schools shall schedule no more than one (1) school wide faculty meeting each month. No more than one (1) department meeting shall be scheduled each month in schools with departmental organization. Such meetings shall be scheduled for such lengths of time as are suitable for dealing with the problems under discussions, except that they shall not be continued beyond fifty (50) minutes from the start of the meeting. The meeting shall start promptly after dismissal. Such meeting shall be held on the lunch hour if the teachers and the administrators of that school mutually agree.
SECTION 11	PUPIL GRADES
The teacher shall be considered to be the expert in evaluating pupil’s work and the integrity of the teacher shall be respected in grading the work of the pupil.
SECTION 12	TEACHER’S GRADE BOOK
A. WRITTEN COMMENTS BY ADMINISTRATOR
Written comments and/or notations by the administrator who reviews lesson plans shall be placed in either the margins of the lesson plan or on separate pieces of paper so that the lesson plan remains legible.
SECTION 13	ADMINISTRATIVE SUMMONS
An employee requested to meet with the State District Superintendent or other administrator or supervisor, shall be informed of the reason for such meeting, prior to the meeting for which their presence is requested and may be accompanied by a representative of the Union if desired.
SECTION 14	CLASS INTERRUPTIONS
The Newark Public Schools and the Union agree that in the best interest of the learning process, classroom interruptions are to be kept at a minimum. Announcements shall be made only at specified times during the school day which do not interfere with instructional activities, or in case of emergency when other alternatives are impractical.
33
SECTION 15	SOLICITATION OF FUNDS
There shall be no direct solicitation of funds from teachers for any purpose by an individual or organization during their scheduled working hours.
SECTION 16	SUPPLIES AND INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
A.	TEXTS AND MATERIALS
For purposes of adequate instruction, there shall be made available for use of the students and teachers such texts and materials as are in keeping with the curriculum guides of the Newark Public Schools and those appearing on the Newark Public Schools approved Price List of textbooks and supplies and those approved by the administrators responsible.
B.	DISCRETIONARY FUND
The Newark Public Schools and the Union agree to continue the teachers’ discretionary fund. Eighty dollars ($80) per teacher shall be made available by the school district in each school year. If as of April 1st of each school year there shall remain any unexpended amount in this discretionary fund, the unexpended amounts shall be redistributed according to the guidelines developed by the Office of the State District Superintendent and then be implemented in each school by the Principal in cooperation with the Union building committee.
SECTION 17	PROFESSIONAL IMPROVEMENT FUND
The amount each school year set aside by the Newark Public Schools for the Professional Improvement Fund shall be seventy thousand dollars ($70,000.00) for the duration of this agreement. All monies not utilized each year shall be cumulative in the fund.
SECTION 18	VERIFICATION OF EMPLOYMENT
Within a reasonable period of time, but not later than two weeks after requested, the Newark Public Schools shall supply in writing, verification or individual’s employment.
34
SECTION 19	PLACEMENT IN POSITIONS
Individuals shall not be placed in any position (permanent or acting) until such time as the position has been properly posted and all unit employees have had the opportunity to apply for such positions. In the event of an emergency, determined by the State District Superintendent, the above procedures may be waived and the State District Superintendent may appoint an individual in an acting capacity.
ARTICLE VI - TEACHER PROTECTION
SECTION 1	NEGLIGENCE
A.	COST OF DEFENSE
Whenever any civil action has been or shall be brought against any person holding any office, position or employment under the jurisdiction of any Board of Education, including any student teacher or person assigned to other professional pre-teaching field experience, for any act or omission arising out of and in the course of the performance of the duties of such office, position, employment or student teaching or other assignment to professional field experience, the Board shall defray all costs of defending such action, including reasonable counsel fees and expenses, together with costs of appeal, if any, and shall save harmless and protect such person from any financial loss resulting there from; and said Board may arrange for and maintain appropriate insurance to cover all such damages, losses and expenses.
B.	REPORTING OF PERSONAL OR PROPERTY DAMAGE
Teachers will immediately report all incidents of personal or property damage to their immediate supervisor.
SECTION 2	ASSAULT AND PERSONAL INJURY
Should any criminal action be instituted against any such person for any such act or omission and should such proceeding be dismissed or result in a final disposition in favor of such person, the Board of Education shall reimburse him for the cost of defending such proceeding, including reasonable counsel fees and expenses of the original hearing or trial and all appeals.
35

SECTIONS COMPENSATION
Whenever any teacher entitled to sick leave is absent from school as a result of personal injury caused by an accident arising out of and in the course of their employment, the Newark Public Schools shall:
A.	SALARY AND SICK DAY PROTECTION
Pay to such teacher the full salary or wages for the period of such absence for up to one calendar year, without having such absences charged to annual sick leave or accumulated sick leave.
B.	AWARD RESTRICTION
Any amount of salary or wages paid or payable to the teacher as a result of this provision shall be reduced by the amount of any workmen’s compensation award made for temporary disability.
ARTICLE VII - SUMMER SCHOOL AND SUMMER
RECREATION PROGRAMS
A.	QUALIFICATIONS
Positions in the Newark summer schools and in the Newark summer recreation program shall be filled by employees in the Newark school system who are qualified.
B.	POSTING
Before such positions are filled, vacancies shall be posted by April 1 st in the schools and applicants shall apply prior to May 1st. Successful applicants shall be notified by June 1st.
When any summer programs are expanded or new programs are initiated after the above dates, notice of such vacancies shall be posted within one week of the Newark Public Schools’ decision.
C.	SELECTION
Selection shall be based on consideration of qualifications, seniority, personal preference of applicant, integration of staff, and the welfare of children and community.
il
36
D. SUMMER PAY RATES PER HOUR
Summer School & Summer Recreation Programs			
			
Summer Pay Rates	01/01/2004	07/01/2004	07/01/2005
			
Teachers	$32.00	$33.00	$34.00
Clerks	$19.75	$20.70	$21.65
Coordinators	$33.00	$34.00	$35.00
Child Study Team	$33.00	$34.00	$35.00
Aides	$17.65	$18.10	$18.55
37

ARTICLE VIII SCHOOL CLERKS SAL,ARY
SECTION 1 - SCHOOL CLERKS SALARY GUIDE
Effective July 1st in each appropriate year
A. TEN (10) MONTHS SALARY GUIDE
SCHOOL CLERK
SCHOOL CLERK TYPIST
10 MONTHS SCHOOL CLERK, SCHOOL TYPIST				
				1 1
	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
1	$28,132	$29,539	$31,016	$32,566
2	$28,731	$30,168	$31,676	$33,260
3	$29,908	$31,403	$32,974	$34,622
4	$30,517	$32,043	$33,645	$35,327
5	$31,528	$33,104	$34,760	$36,498
6	$33,231	$34,893	$36,637	$38,469
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$34,231	$36,093	$38,037	$40,169
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$35,356	$37,293	$39,437	$41,769
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25 i	$37,481	$39,793	$42,437	$45,269
				
4th Long i	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100,	$1,100
Long 30	$38,4811	$40,893	$43,537	$46,369
38
TEN (10) MONTHS SALARY GUIDE
SENIOR SCHOOL CLERK TYPIST
SENIOR SCHOOL CLERK TYPIST BILINGUAL
10 MONTHS SENIOR SCHOOL CLERK, BILINGUAL				
				
j 2002-2003		2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
1	$28,319	$29,735	$31,222	$32,783
2	$28,918	$30,364	$31,882	$33,476
3	$30,096	$31,601	$33,181	$34,840
4	$30,704	$32,239	$33,851	$35,544
5	$31,717	$33,303	$34,968	i $36,716
6	$33,419	$35,090	$36,844	$38,687
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$34,419	$36,290	$38,244	$40,387
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$35,544	$37,490	$39,644	$41,987
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$37,669	$39,990	$42,644	$45,487
	!			
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$38,669	$41,090	$43,744	$46,587
39
TEN (10) MONTHS SALARY GUIDE SUPERVISING SCHOOL CLERK
10 MON	TH SUPERVISING SCHOOL CLERK			
				
	2002-2003	2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006		
STEP				
1	28,507	29,932	31,518	33,189
2	29,107	30,787	32,327	34,039
- 3	30,283	32,018	33,866	35,559
4	30,892	32,706	34,579	36,575
5	31,904	33,672	35,649	37,691
6	33,606	35,286	37,151	38,903
				
1st Long	1,000	1,200	1,400	1,700
Long 15	34,606	36,486	38,551	40,603
				
2ng Long	2,125	2,400	2,800	3,300
Long 20	35,731	37,686	39,951	42,203
				
3rd Long	2,125	2,500	3,000	3,500
Long 25	37,856	40,186	42,951	45,703
				
4th Long	1,000	1,100	1,100	1,100
Long 30	38,856	41,286	44,051	46,803
40
B. TWELVE (12) MONTHS SCHOOL CLERKS SALARY GUIDE
SCHOOL CLERK
SCHOOL CLERK TYPIST
12 MONTHS SCHOOL CLERK			1	
				। i
	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
1	$30,934	$32,481	$34,105	$35,810
2	$31,743	$33,330	$34,997	$36,746
3	$33,267	$34,930	$36,677	$38,511
4	$34,108	$35,813	$37,604	$39,484
5	$35,334	$37,101	$38,956	$40,904
6	$36,810	$38,651	$40,583	$42,612
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$37,810	$39,851	$41,983	$44,312
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$38,935	$41,051	$43,383	$45,912
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$41,060	$43,551	$46,383	$49,412
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$42,060	$44,651	$47,483	$50,512
41
TWELVE (12) MONTHS SALARY GUIDE
SENIOR SCHOOL CLERK TYPIST
■
I

I
I
12 MONTHS SENIOR SCHOOL CLERK TYPIST				
				
	2002-2003	2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006		
STEP				
1	$31,121	$32,677	$34,311	$36,026
2	$31,931	$33,528	$35,204	$36,964
3	$33,454	$35,127	$36,883	$38,727
4	$34,207	$35,917	$37,713	$39,599
5	$35,521	$37,297	$39,162	$41,120
6	$36,998	$38,848	$40,790	$42,830
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$37,998	$40,048	$42,190	$44,530
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$39,123	$41,248	$43,590	$46,130
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$41,248	$43,748	$46,590	$49,630
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$42,248	$44,848	$47,690	$50,730
I
42
I
TWELVE (12) MONTHS SALARY GUIDE
SUPERVISING SCHOOL CLERK
12 MON	TH SUPERVISING SCHOOL CLERK			
				
	2002-2003	2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006		
STEP				
1	31,309	32,874	34,616	36,451
2	32,118	33,814	35,505	37,385
3	33,642	35,329	37,195	39,055
4	34,484	36,333	38,155	40,170
’ 5	35,709	37,587	39,602	41,588
6	37,153	39,011	40,961	43,009
				
1st Long	1,000	1,200	1,400	1,700
Long 15	38,153	40,211	42,361	44,709
				
2ng Long	2,125	2,400	2,800	3,300
Long 20	39,278	41,411	43,761	46,309
				
3rd Long	2,125	2,500	3,000	3,500
Long 25	41,403	43,911	46,761	49,809
				
4th Long	1,000	1,100	1,100	1,100
Long 30	42,403	45,011	47,861	50,909
43

C. ORGANIZATION DAY
School Clerks may be required to report to their respective schools up to five (5) workdays in advance of the date teachers report for Organization Day.
School Clerks shall be compensated for these days on the basis of l/200th of their annual salary for each day worked, which payments shall be included in the first regular paycheck in September.
SECTION 2 SICK AND PERSONAL DAYS
The Newark Public Schools hereby agrees that the basic teacher sick days and personal days leave policy shall be provided for School Clerks.
SECTIONS JOB DESCRIPTION
A.	NJ DEPT. OF PERSONNEL
The job description for School Clerks shall be the New Jersey Department of Personnel (NJDOP) job description for School Clerks to which there shall be added the following: handles and prepares for deposit money collected from pupils and teachers on school premises; secures by telephone, during their working hours, substitutes approved by the Department of Personnel for absent teachers.
B.	NO DICTATION
The Newark Public Schools agrees that School Clerks shall not be required to take dictation as a condition of employment.
SECTION 4	OVERTIME
School Clerks working overtime shall, at the discretion of the State District Superintendent, be remunerated at a rate of one and one-half (PA) times the hourly rate or one and one-half (P/2) times the time worked.
SECTIONS W	ORKDAY
A.	DEFINITION
The workday for School Clerks is herewith defined as seven (7) hours to commence one-half (1/2) hours prior to the time pupils begin their official school day and terminate after completion of seven (7) hours of work, not to include the lunch period of the clerk, which shall be no less than the lunch period of pupils in the school.
44
B.	NON-COMPULSORY OVERTIME
Schools clerks shall not be required at any time prior to the beginning of day or at any time after their work day, to secure substitutes as provided for in Section 3 above.
C.	WORK BREAK
School Clerks shall receive two (2) ten minute breaks each day, one in the morning and one in the afternoon.
D.	MONITOR OR SUPERVISE STUDENTS
School Clerks shall not be assigned to monitor or supervise students sent to the office.
SECTION 6	- LONGEVITY
Commencing with the twentieth (20th) and twenty-fifth (25th) year of employment, School Clerks shall receive a longevity increase. The longevity amounts are shown on each salary guide.
SECTION 7	TIME REPORTS
A. SPECIAL TELEPHONE CONNECTIONS
The Newark Public Schools agrees that the office of the Secretary, through the Payroll Department, shall have available a special telephone connection open every business day during the regular school hours for purposes of supplying authoritative information to School Clerks regarding preparation of time reports.
SECTION 8	CAREER LADDER PROGRAM
The Newark Public Schools and the Union agree to pursue discussion to establish a career ladder program for six-hour aides, three-hour aides, and clerks leading to a teaching degree.
ARTICLE IX- CULTURAL PLURALISM
A.	COMMEMORATIVE DATES
The Newark Public Schools shall include in its calendar reference to specific commemorative dates in Afro-American, Puerto Rican history, as well as other dates reflecting such dates among national and cultural groups typical of the population of Newark.
45

B.	BILINGUAL AND MULTI-LINGUAL TEACHERS
The Newark Public Schools shall recruit teachers who are bilingual or multi-lingual to serve in establishing special classes for Non-English speaking students where needed, and the Newark Public Schools shall continue to maintain its policy of making such classes available to all students in need of each classes.
ARTICLE X - LEAVES / RETIREMENT
SECTION 1	SICK AND PERSONAL LEAVES
A.	NUMBER OF SICK DAYS GRANTED
Teachers shall be granted sick leave for illness for fifteen (15) days in each school year, with the exception of the regular teachers in the Newark Evening High School, who shall receive twelve (12) days per year.
B.	ADDITIONAL SICK DAYS FOR TEACHERS WITH 25 YEARS EXPERIENCE
Teachers with twenty-five (25) years experience in the system shall receive ten (10) additional non-cumulative days per year after accumulated leave has been exhausted.
C.	UNUSED SICK DAYS
Unused sick leave shall be accumulated without limit.
D.	EXHAUSTED SICK DAYS
In the event that a teacher’s accumulated sick leave has been exhausted and the teacher certifies to the Newark Public Schools that he/she is unable to teach due to an extended illness, then the Newark Public Schools may, consistent with its present practice, grant additional sick leave to such teacher with pay.
E.	MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
A medical certificate is required when a bargaining unit member’s absence exceeds five (5) consecutive working days due to illness. It should be mailed directly to Health Education & Services, The Newark Public Schools, 2 Cedar Street, Newark, New Jersey 07102. Mark the envelope CONFIDENTIAL: FORMS CLERK. Do not submit this form to your school or department.
46
F.	NUMBER OF PERSONAL DAYS GRANTED
Teachers will be granted three (3) days leave annually for personal reasons without explanation. The State District Superintendent at his/her discretion may grant additional personal leave days if the reason warrants it. Unused personal days granted in accordance with this section will be accumulated as sick leave days. Personal days shall be pro-rated based on the number of months the teacher is on the payroll. Employees hired on or before October 15 will be granted three (3) personal days, employees hired between October 16 and March 15 will be granted two (2) personal days, employees hired on or after March 16 will be granted one (1) personal day.
Personal days may only be used as full school days.
G.	SEXUAL EQUALITY OF LEAVE PRIVILEGES
Male teachers shall be accorded the same leave privileges as female teachers.
H.	PICKING UP PAY CHECKS WHEN ABSENT
Any employee who is not present in school due to an approved absence other than illness may pick up their paycheck at their assigned location.
I.	PRORATED SICK DAYS WHEN RETURNING FROM LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Employees hired or returning from leaves of absences on or after (October 15) shall receive sick leave on a pro-rated monthly basis predicated upon fifteen days per school year. The above shall also apply to regular teachers in the Newark Evening High School who shall be pro-rated based on twelve days per year.
J.	CONVERSION OF SICK & PERSONAL DAYS NOT EXCEEDING
6 DAYS - EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1985
Effective July 1, 1985; unit members whose total number of sick and or personal days absent does not exceed six (6) days, shall be able to convert the remaining accumulated sick and or personal days, at the end of each school year on the basis of a conversion equaling one day’s pay for each five (5) days accumulated, and such converted days shall be payable (compensable) at the end of the school year. The basis for converted days shall be 1/200th of an employee’s salary for that year. A separate check shall be issued for said compensation.
47
SECTION 2	MATERNITY LEAVE
A.	LENGTH OF MATERNITY LEAVE
Upon certification by a competent physician and application by a teacher, the Newark Public Schools shall grant a leave for maternity for a period of no more than one (1) year.
B.	RETURN TO SERVICE
A teacher on maternity leave shall be reinstated at any time during the period of such leave upon request of the teacher.
C.	EXTENDED MATERNITY LEAVE
Leave shall be extended for a period of one (1) year by the Newark Public Schools for care of child, if requested by the teacher.
D.	SENIORITY AND SALARY
A teacher returning from a maternity leave of absence will be reinstated and will retain the seniority held at the time the leave became effective. Salary placement shall be at the same step as when the leave became effective except that when the teacher has completed ninety (90) days or more of a school year, it shall count as a full year.
E.	SENIORITY RIGHTS DURING MATERNITY LEAVE Seniority rights shall be maintained during the period of such leave.
SECTIONS MILITARY LEAVE
A.	INDUCTED TEACHER
Military Leave of absence without pay will be granted to a permanent teacher inducted into the Armed Forces for the required length of service according to the terms of the Selective Service and Training Act of 1940 and subsequent amendments by Congress.
B.	ELIGIBILITY FOR MILITARY LEAVE
A teacher will be eligible for military leave of absence if ordered to report for civilian work in the National interest under the current provision of the Selective Service and Training Act applying to conscientious objectors.
48

C.	SALARY SCHEDULE PLACEMENT
Upon return to the school system, such inducted teacher will be placed on a step of the salary scale as if he had never left.
D.	REINSTATEMENT AND SENIORITY
The teacher returning from military service will be reinstated and will retain seniority as if he had never left.
SECTION 4	EXISTING LEAVE POLICY
No deduction of salary of a regular employee shall be made for absence as follows:
A.	DEATH IN IMMEDIATE FAMILY/HOUSEHOLD
Death in the immediate family or household - up to five (5) consecutive working days immediately following the death. The immediate family and household are defined as follows: spouse, domestic partner only, child (including stepchild), parent (including parent-in-law and stepparent), sibling, grandparent, and grandchild.
B.	COURT SUBPOENA
Absence on account of court subpoena
C.	QUARANTINE
Quarantine
D.	EXCUSED ATTENDANCE AT CONFERENCE
Attendance at conferences when excused by the State District Superintendent.
E.	MARRIAGE
The State District Superintendent may grant two (2) weeks furlough, without pay, for the marriage of the teacher.
SECTION 5	MAINTENANCE OF RIGHTS AND BENEFITS
A.	FULL BENEFITS DURING LEAVE
Teachers on leave with pay shall continue to receive full benefits provided by the Newark Public Schools as stated in this Agreement.
49
B.	RETURNING TO FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT UPON TERMINATION OF LEAVE
Any teacher returning to full-time employment in the Newark Public Schools upon termination of any leave shall be returned to his/her area of certification previous grade assignment.
SECTION 6	RESERVE DUTY
Teachers called for active reserve duty for periods of two (2) weeks or less shall suffer no loss of pay or benefits for such periods.
SECTION 7	RETIREMENT (Effective July 1, 2004)
A.	90 DAYS NOTICE
Effective July 1,2000, teachers who retire must give the Newark Public Schools at least ninety (90) days advance notice for retirements that occur on dates other than July 1 st of each year. When a resignation or retirement has been approved by the Superintendent, the resignation or retirement may not be rescinded except for extraordinary circumstances as determined by the Superintendent.
B.	CONVERSION OF SICK DAYS FOR MID-YEAR RETIREMENTS Employees who retire mid-year and give the ninety (90) days notice set forth above (A. 90 DAYS NOTICE) will be compensated for accumulated sick leave as follows:
1. FIRST 90 DAYS	2003-2004	2004-2006
Teachers -	$110	($125)
Secretaries -	$ 65	($ 80)
Aides -	$ 50	($ 65)
2.	91 - 150 DAYS
For the next sixty (60) days accumulated, one day’s pay for each four (4) days accumulated, said days pay compensable at the 1/200th daily rate of pay for said employees, then existing;
3.	151 -250 DAYS
For a total number of sick days between one hundred fifty-one (151) to two hundred fifty (250) days, one day’s pay for each five (5) accumulated days said days compensable at the rate of one hundred dollars ($100) each. Effective July 1, 2004, the rate shall be $115.
50
4.	OVER 250 DAYS
For all accumulated sick days in excess of two hundred fifty (250) days, one days pay for each five (5) accumulated days, said days pay to be compensable at the rate of seventy-five ($75) per day. Effective July 1, 2004, the rate shall be $90.
5.	REQUIREMENT
All converted sick leave shall be deducted from the total number subject to be converted (a) at the end of the school year, or (b) upon retirement.
6.	EXCEPTIONS TO THE 90 DAYS NOTICE
Exceptions to the ninety (90) days notice requirement for eligibility to convert accumulated sick leave may be granted by the Superintendent for reasons of personal illness of either the employee or a member of the employee’s immediate family.
C.	CONVERSION OF SICK DAYS FOR JULY 1ST RETIREMENTS
1.	FIRST 90 DAYS 2003-2004	2004-2006
Teachers-	$120	($135)
Secretaries -	$ 75	($90)
Aides-	$ 55	($ 70)
2.	91 - 150 DAYS
For the next sixty (60) days accumulated, one day’s pay for each three point five (3.5) days accumulated, said days pay compensable at the 1/200th daily rate of pay for said employees, then existing;
3.	151 -250 DAYS
For a total number of sick days between one hundred fifty-one (151) and two hundred fifty (250) days, one day’s pay for each five (5) accumulated days said days compensable at the rate of one hundred ten dollars ($110) each. Effective July 1, 2004, the rate shall be $125.
4.	OVER 250 DAYS
For all accumulated sick days in excess of two hundred fifty days (250), one days pay for each five (5) accumulated days, said days pay to be compensable at the rate of one hundred dollars ($100) per day. Effective July 1,2004, the rate shall be $115.
51
5.	REQUIREMENT
All converted sick leave shall be deducted from the total number subject to be converted (a) at the end of the school year, or (b) upon retirement.
SECTION 8 - FAMILY LEAVE ACT /
FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT
A.	FULFILLING REQUIREMENTS FOR FLA OR FMLA
Employees taking leave pursuant to either the New Jersey Family Leave Act (FLA) or the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) will be required to fulfill all the requirements of the Act selected, including when appropriate, the inclusion of sick leave, personal leave, vacation days, etc. in the leave.
B.	PERMITTED PURPOSES FOR LEAVE
FLA-Serious health condition of spouse, child, parent including parent-in-law, or the birth or placement for adoption of a child.
FMLA-Serious health conditions of spouse, child or parent, or the employee’s own serious health condition, or the birth or placement for adoption or foster care of a child.
C.	SENIORITY
Time spent on unpaid Family Leave pursuant to this Section will be considered as time worked for purposes of determining seniority.
D.	ATTENDANCE IMPROVEMENT PLAN
Absence for approved FLA or FMLA leaves will not be included in the Attendance Improvement Program.
52
ARTICLE XI - PROMOTIONS - NOTICE OF VACANCIES
A. PROMOTIONAL POSITIONS
1.	LISTED PROMOTIONAL POSITIONS
Promotional positions are defined as follows: positions which pay a special salary differential, which involves in part or in full the performance of supervisory or administrative duties and which include the positions of State District Superintendent, Assistant State District Superintendent (Deputy), Assistant State District Superintendent, associate to the Assistant Executive, director, supervisor, principal, vice principal, coordinator attached to the central office staff, department chairperson, head guidance counselor, and supervisory assistant.
2.	NOTICE OF VACANCY
The notice of any vacancy shall clearly state all qualifications, requirements, duties and any other pertinent information respecting the vacancy. It shall also include the salary to be paid in such a position. Each such notice shall be sent directly to each school’s Building Rep and posted on the bulletin board set aside for the use of the Union.
3.	TIME OF POSTING FOR VACANCIES
All notices of vacancies shall be posted and otherwise publicized no less than twenty (20) calendar days prior to the time at which the receiving of applications for said vacancies is closed.
4.	RIGHT TO APPLY FOR PROMOTIONAL POSITIONS
The right to apply and compete for any and all promotional positions shall be open to all employees who meet the qualifications and requirements of any or all of the respective positions to be filled.
ARTICLE XII - SUPPLEMENTAL FRINGE BENEFITS
SECTION A	MAINTENANCE OF BENEFITS
Benefits under this article shall be made available for all employees in the bargaining unit. The level of such benefits shall be established by the Trustees of the Supplemental Fringe Benefits Fund in accordance with Agreement and
53
Declaration of Trust establish that Fund including all amendments to that Trust Agreement. The Newark Public Schools agrees to budget and appropriate hinds sufficient to cover the actual cost of benefits only, such benefits to be provided for Fund beneficiaries. The cost of benefits to be paid shall only include unit members identified as Newark Public Schools employees in Branch 1 of the Fund’s schedule of payments, which schedule was in place as of August 14, 1984. The Newark Public Schools and Union agree that each shall appoint and maintain a full compliment of trustees during the life of this agreement and in the event that a trustee vacancy shall occur, the appointing party shall fill said vacancy within forty-five (45) days of the date when the vacancy shall first occur.
SECTION B	REVIEW OF BENEFITS PROVIDER
The Newark Public Schools and the Union jointly acknowledge that the cost of benefits has increased drastically over the last several years. The Newark Public Schools and the Union agree that the containment of cost is the responsibility of the parties. To this end, the Newark Public Schools and the union agree that their Trustee representatives to the Supplemental Fringe Benefits Fund must exercise extreme prudent efforts to both contain cost and provide the best possible benefits to the affected employees.
The Newark Public Schools and the Union shall recommend to the Supplemental Fringe Benefits Fund:
1.	That the SFBF shall solicit open market competitive quotes on the entire supplemental employee benefit package bargaining unit members.
2.	That the SFBF shall, after review of all quotes, review and select a benefit provider.
3.	That the SFBF shall inform the Newark Public Schools and the Union of the name of the selected benefit provider, the premium cost and the level of benefits.
The SFBF shall review on an annual basis the performance of the benefit provider, to determine whether the provider should be retained. The performance review shall take place not later than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the provider agreement. The SFBF shall provide a written report to the Newark Public Schools and the Union. This report shall outline the conclusions of the performance review.
54
ARTICLE XIII - EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES & SUPPLEMENTARY COMPENSATION
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	ELIGIBILITY
At any one time no teacher shall be eligible to hold a second position for which extra compensation is received unless there is no other applicant for the second position.
2.	SELECTION
Selection shall be based on consideration of qualifications, seniority, personal preferences of the applicant, integration of staff, and the welfare of children and the community.
3.	IN-SERVICE CREDIT
The Newark Public Schools shall continue to grant in-service credit for participation in all current and future unpaid activities under this section.
4.	MINIMUM TEACHERS ASSIGNED TO RECREATION CENTERS
If and when a recreation program is instituted, the minimum number of teachers assigned shall be negotiated at that time.
5.	SEXUAL EQUALITY OF COACHES PAY
Male and Female coaches shall receive the same compensation for similar services.
6.	PRIORITY CONSIDERATION
All full-time, certified employees who apply for coaching & extracurricular positions will be considered for the position prior to giving consideration to part-time certified employees or persons from outside the NPS. Employees from the building where the vacancy exists will be given consideration prior to considering the applications of employees from other buildings or from outside the NPS. All full-time unit employees who apply shall be given first preference for all coaching & extracurricular positions.
55
B.	CLUBS AND ACTIVITIES SELECTION
1.	APPLICATIONS
All openings for club advisors, school publications and all other non-athletic extra-curricular activities shall be made by soliciting applications from all eligible teachers.
2.	ELIGIBILITY
Eligibility shall depend on the criteria set forth in Section A above in addition to a subject area qualification wherever applicable.
3.	PRINCIPAL APPOINTMENTS
The principal shall fill the openings and notify the appropriate Assistant State District Superintendent. Preference in selection shall be given to teachers from the Schools where the activity takes place.
4.	REASON FOR NON-SELECTION
Each applicant not picked shall have the right to demand in writing the principal’s reason for this selection.
5.	APPOINTMENT PROTECTION
Employees who currently occupy extra-curricular positions shall retain such positions unless substantive reasons can be given for their removal.
6.	PREFERENCE FOR POSITION
Any teacher whose idea for a new extra-curricular activity is accepted shall have first preference for that position.
7.	ROTATION OF APPOINTMENTS
All non-athletic extra curricular positions shall be rotated every three (3) years if there are eligible qualified candidates for these positions.
56
C. EXTRA-CURRICULAR COMPENSATION PAY DATES/INSTALLMENTS
1.	PAY DATES AND INSTALLMENTS
Stipend payments shall be made in two (2) equal installments.
The first installment for full year activities shall be issued with the tenth (10th) paycheck of the year. The second installment for full year activities shall be issued at the conclusion of the school year.
Separate checks will be issued for the stipends listed in Article XIII, Section C.
57
2. EXTRA-CURRICULAR COMPENSATION SALARY GUIDE
Effective July 1, in each appropriate year:
I-
Extra-Curricular Category	Level	2002- 2003	2003- 2004	2004- 2005	2005- 2006
Advisor	Eighth Grade	N/A	$1,130	$1,190	$1,250
	Junior Class	$1,074	$1,130	$1,190	$1,250
	Literary Magazine	$2,361	$2,480	$2,610	$2,750
	Student Council	$2,526	$2,650	$2,795	$2,940
Band Director	Director	$5,193	$5,455	$5,740	$6,045
	Assistant Director	N/A	$2,725	$2,870	$3,020
Baseball	Secondary Head Coach	$6,163	$6,470	$6,815	$7,175
	Secondary Assistant Coach	$4,524	$4,750	$5,000	$5,270
	Elementary Coach	$3,012	$3,165	$3,330	$3,510
Basketball	Secondary Head Coach	$6,924	$7,270	$7,655	$8,060
	Secondary Assistant Coach	$4,616	$4,850	$5,100	$5,375
	Elementary Coach	$3,012	$3,165	$3,330	$3,510
Bowling	Head Coach	$4,524	$4,750	$5,000	$5,270
	Assistant Coach	N/A	$2,725	$2,870	$3,020
Chaperones		$160	$170	$180	$195
Close Up Program	Secondary Coordinator	$2,526	$2,650	$2,795	$2,940
Club Sponsors		$585	$615	$650	$680
Concerts		$414	$435	$460	$480
Cheerleader		$2,596	$2,725	$2,870	$3,020
	Advisor (Elementary)	$1,074	$1,130	$1,190	$1,250
Debate	CityWide Coordinator	N/A	$8,585	$8,930	$9,405
	Secondary Head Coach	$6,744	$7,080	$7,460	$7,850
	Secondary Coordinator	$2,526	$2,650	$2,795	$2,940
	Intermediate Coach	$4,524	$4,750	$5,000	$5,270
Drama	Secondary Head Coach	$3,132	$3,290	$3,465	$3,650
	Middle School Coach	$1,415	$1,486	$1,565	$1,650
Faculty Managers	Secondary	$5,233	$5,4951	$5,785	$6,095
Fencing	Coach	$4,524	$4,750	$5,000	$5,270
Field Hockey	Coach	$4,524	$4,750	$5,000	$5,270
Football	Secondary Head Coach	$8,078	$8,585	$8,930	$9,405
	Secondary Assistant Coach	$5,770	$6,060	$6,380	$6,720
Future Teacher	Mentor	$2,450	$2,573	$2,709	$2,852
	Coordinator	$2,828	$2,970	$3,127	$3,293
Golf	।	[Coach	$3,937	$4,135	$4,355	| $4,585
Gymnastics	Coach	$6,163	$6,470	$6,815	| $7,175
Honor Society	1	$926	$975	$1,025i	( $1,080
Ice Hockey	Coach	$4,616	$4,850	$5,100	| $5,375
Interscholastic Sports	(Giris	j	$4,378	$4,600	$4,840	| $5,100
Intramural Activities	'	(Girls	i	$3,012	$3,165	$3,330	$3,505
Lacrosse	Coach	'	$4,524	$4,750	$5,000	$5,270
Newspaper	Senior High	! $4,009	$4,210	$4,435	$4,665
	Montgomery and West Kinney	$2,005	$2,105	$2,220	$2,335
58
2.	EXTRA-CURRICULAR COMPENSATION SALARY GUIDE (Continued)
Extra-Curricular Category	Level	2002- 2003	2003- 2004	2004- 2005	2005- 2006
Peer Connection	Advisor	$2,965	$3,115	$3,280	$3,450
	Coordinator	$4,610	$4,840	$5,100	$5,365
Robotics	City Wide Coordinator	N/A	$8,585	$8,930	$9,405
	Secondary Head Coach	N/A	$7,080	$7,460	$7,850
	Intermediate Coach	N/A	$4,750	$5,000	$5,270
Senior Class	Advisor	$3,924	$4,120	$4,340	$4,570
	Advisor (Montgomery & West Kinney)	$1,962	$2,060	$2,170	$2,285
Skiing	Coach	$4,524	$4,750	| $5,000	$5,270
Soccer	Secondary Head Coach	$5,770	$6,060	$6,380	$6,720
	Secondary Assistant Coach	$3,937	i $4,135	$4,350	$4,585
Softball	Secondary Head Coach	$6,163	$6,470	$6,815	$7,175
	Secondary Assistant Coach	$4,524	$4,750	$5,000	$5,270
	Bement^^	i $3,012	$3,165	$3,330	$3,510
Special Olympics	District Wide Coordinator	$3,132	$3,290	$3,465	$3,645
Student Leadership Group	Secondary Coordinator	$2,526	$2,650	$2,795	$2,940
Swimming	[Coach	$4,524	$4,750	$5,000	$5,265
Tennis	Secondary Head Coach	$4,039	$4,240	$4,465	$4,700
	Secondary Assistant Coach	N/A	$2,725	$2,870	$3,020
Track Cross Country	Secondary Head Coach	$4,378	$4,600	$4,840	| $5,100
Cross Country	Secondary Assistant Coach	$3,937	$4,135	$4,355	$4,585
Indoor	Secondary Head Coach	$5,193	$5,455	$5,745	$6,045
Indoor	Secondary Assistant Coach	$3,937	$4,135	$4,355	$4,585
Outdoor	Secondary Head Coach	$6,163	$6,470	$6,815	$7,175
Outdoor	Secondary Assistant Coach	$4,524	$4,750	$5,000	$5,270
Elementary	Elementary Coach	$3,012	$3,165	$3,330	$3,510
Treasurer	High School		XI		
	Enrollment over 1000	$4,483	$4,710	$5,000	$5,220
	Enrollment under 1000	$3,836	$4,025	$4,240	$4,465
	Eighth Grade				
	4-6 Classes	N/A	$2,015	$2,120	$2,230
	i 1-3 Classes	N/A	$1,015	$1,070	$1,125
Twirling	Advisor (Fall)	$3,012	$3,165	$3,330	$3,510
	Advisor (Winter)	$3,012	$3,165	$3,330	$3,510
	Advisor (Elementary)	$926	$975	$1,025	$1,080
Volleyball	Secondary Head Coach	$4,524	$4,750	$5,000	$5,270
	Secondary Assistant Coach	$3,937	$4,135	$4,355	$4,585
Winter Guard (Drill Team)	; Secondary Head Coach	| $4,009	$4,210	$4,435	$4,670
Wrestling	[Secondary Head Coach	I	$5,193	$5,455	$5,745	$6,045
I Secondary Assistant Coach			$3,937	$4,135	$4,355	$4,585
Yearbook	Senior High	$4,616	$4,850	$5,105	$5,375
	Montgomery and West Kinney	$2,308	$2,425	$2,550	$2,690
	Yearbook/Newspaper (Elementary)	$1,237	$1,300	$1,370	$1,440
	Yearbook/Newspaper (Middle School)	! $1,237	$1,300	$1,370	I $1,440
59
■ii Illi
|BB
I
I
I
ill
I	’
I	!
k	r)
ARTICLE XIV TEACHER SALARY
SECTION r TEACHER SALARY GUIDE
Effective July 1 st, in each appropriate year:
A. SCHEDULE FOR BA LEVEL (Bachelor Degree)

TEACHER - BACHELOR DEGREE LEVEL
				
	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
1	$40,000	$41,500	$43,200	$44,500
2	$40,500	$42,000	$43,700	$45,490
3	$41,000	$42,525	$44,226	$46,016
4	$42,550	$43,050	$44,779	$46,570
5	$44,550	$44,678	$45,332	$47,152
6	$45,550	$46,778	$47,045	$47,734
7	$46,550	$47,828	$49,257	$49,539
8	$47,550	$48,878	$50,362	$51,867
9	$50,150	$50,925	$51,468	$53,032
10	$51,150	$52,658	$53,624	$54,196
11	$52,650	$53,708	$55,448	$56,466
12	$54,650	$55,283	h $56,554	$58,387
13	$69,210	$71,909	$74,813	$77,827
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$70,210	$73,109	$76,213	$79,527
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$71,335	$74,309	$77,613	$81,127
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$73,460	$76,809	$80,613	$84,627
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$74,460	$77,909	$81,713	$85,727
60
TEACHER SALARY GUIDE
B.	SCHEDULE FOR MA LEVEL (Bachelor Degree plus 30 Graduate Credits)
TEACHER - MASTER’S DEGREE LEVEL				
(Bachelor Degree plus 30 graduate credits) |				
	2002-2003	2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006		
STEP				
1	$41,500	$43,000	$44,700	$46,000
2	$42,000	$43,575	$45,279	$47,069
3	$42,500	$44,100	$45,884	$47,679
4	$43,900	$44,625	$46,437	$48,316
5	$45,900	$46,095	$46,990	$48,898
6	$46,900	$48,195	$48,538	$49,481
7	$47,900	$49,245	$50,749	$51,111
8	$48,900	$50,295	$51,855	$53,439
9	$51,500	$52,395	$52,961	$54,603
10	$52,500	$54,075	$55,172	$55,768
11	$54,000	$55,125	$56,941	$58,096
12	$56,000	$56,700	$58,047	$59,959
13	$71,977	$74,676	$77,580	$80,594
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$72,977	$75,876	$78,980	$82,294
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$74,102	$77,076	$80,380	$83,894
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$76,227	$79,576	$83,380	$87,394
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$77,227	$80,676	$84,480	$88,494
61
TEACHER SALARY GUIDE
C. SCHEDULE FOR PHD LEVEL (Masters’ Degree plus 30 Graduate Credits or Bachelor Degree plus 60 Graduate Credits)

TEACHER - PHD EQUIVALENT LEVEL				
(MA Degree plus 30 graduate credits or BA degree plus 60 graduate credits)				
	2002-2003	2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006		
STEP				
1	$43,000	$44,500	$46,200	$47,500
2	$43,500	$45,150	$46,859	$48,649
3	$44,000	$45,675	$47,543	$49,342
4	$45,250	$46,200	$48,096	$50,063
5	$47,250	$47,513	$48,649	$50,645
6	$48,250	$49,613	$50,031	$51,227
7	$49,250	$50,663	$52,242	$52,682
8	$50,250	$51,713	$53,348	$55,011
9	$52,850	$53,813	$54,453	$56,175
10	$53,850	$55,493	$56,665	$57,339
11	$55,330	$56,543	$58,434	$59,668
12	$57,350	$58,097	$59,539	$61,531
13	$74,758	$77,457	$80,361	$83,375
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$75,758	$78,657	$81,761	$85,075
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$76,883	$79,857	$83,161	$86,675
				
3rd Long	$2,225	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$79,108	$82,357	$86,161	$90,175
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$80,108	$83,457	$87,261	$91,275
I
II
ill
62
D.	LONGEVITY
Longevity increments shall be paid starting in the 15th, in the 20th, in the 25th and in the 30th year of permanent employment, which shall be active but does not have to be continuous; employment in other school districts or school systems is not to be counted for purposes of longevity.
NOTE: 15th year longevity (15th through 19th years) is non-cumulative; 20th, 25th and 30th are cumulative. The longevity amounts are shown on each salary guide.
E.	PRIOR CREDIT
1.	Effective July 1, 2004, the NPS shall have the right, at its sole discretion, to grant a hiring bonus of $3,000 for a first year teacher with no prior teaching experience and a bonus of $4,000 to a teacher with three or more years of experience in critical certification areas. The Superintendent shall have the right, at her/his sole discretion, to grant advanced standing on the salary guide.
The critical certification areas, for first year teachers as well as experienced teachers, are subject to change on an annual basis after consultation with the NTU.
This provision is not grievable.
2.	Credit on the salary schedule for prior service will be given to all teachers for years of accredited teaching experience, on a year-for-year basis, up to the maximum step on the salary guide. In crediting previous teaching experience for salary purposes, completion of the full academic year is required for recognition.
Credit for teaching and Newark Public School substitute experience shall be given for work done after completion of teacher training requirements in the jurisdiction in which the service took place, or under certification in the jurisdiction in which the service took place, or after the completion of a bachelor’s degree.
3.	In crediting military service for salary purposes, completion of the full calendar year is required for recognition. Up to four years credit on the salary guide will be granted for military service.
63
4.	Credit pursuant to this agreement shall not be retroactive, but rather entitle each teacher to the right to receive credit commencing with the effective date of this agreement.
F.	PRIOR CREDIT - SPECIAL NEEDS AREAS
Credit on the salary schedule will be given to all teachers for related work experience on a year-for-year basis, up to the maximum step on the salary guide.
Credit for work experience shall be given for special or critical need areas, under Emergency Certification or the Alternate Route Program.
In crediting military service for salary purposes, completion of one calendar year required for recognition.
G.	EQUIVALENCY CREDITS
The Newark Public Schools and the Union agree to provide a means whereby appropriate bargaining unit members shall attain advancement on a salary schedule by participation in and completion of courses for credit given by the Union which are beneficial to the schools and indicative of professional growth. Such credits, when properly certificated by the Union, will serve as a supplement to or a substitute for college or university undergraduate or graduate credits, not to exceed 12 units on the salary schedules. The costs of the courses shall be borne by the Union and shall be reasonably comparable in quality and kind to those courses offered by the Newark Public Schools for in-service teaching.
H.	PREVENTION SPECIALIST
The title of Prevention Specialist entitles them to all rights, benefits and emoluments contained in the collective bargaining agreement, effective February 2, 2004-June 30, 2006 and all successor agreements.
The work year for the Prevention Specialist shall begin the 1st official day of school in September through and up until the last day of school in June.
The work day of the Prevention Specialist shall be defined in the collective bargaining agreement.
The base salary of the Prevention Specialist shall be the same as set forth on the Teachers Compensation Salary Guides.
64
The Prevention Specialist shall be evaluated by the Principal or Director of Special Programs.
If Grant is not renewed, employee will return to previous position with or without loss of pay, however, without loss of seniority.
If Grant is not renewed, new employees hired for this program may not be offered continuous employment in the district. This a non-tenured position.
65
SECTIONS PSYCHOLOGISTS, SOCIAL WORKERS & LEARNING DISABILITY TEACHER CONSULTANTS SALARY
Effective July 1st in each appropriate year
CHILD STUDY TEAM SALARY GUIDE

CST- PSYCHOLOGISTS, SOCIAL WORKERS & L.D.T.C				
		| |		
2002-2003		2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
1	$45,440	$46,440	$48,440	$49,940
2	$46,760	$48,762	$49,300	|	$51,007
3	$48,302	$50,148	$51,346	$51,913
4	$50,851	$51,767	$52,806	$54,068
5	$53,736	$55,494	$55,564	$55,809
6	$54,969	$56,423	$58,435	$58,968
7	'	$56,227	$57,717	$59,413	$61,532
8	?	$57,566	$59,038	$60,776	$62,562
9	$61,829	$62,019	$62,232	$63,998
10	$63,085	$64,920	$65,813	$66,583
11	$77,219	$79,918	$82,822	$85,836
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400.	$1,700
Long 15	$78,219	$81,118	$84,222	$87,536
				
2ng Long	$2,225	$2,500	$2,900	$3,400
Long 20	$79,444	$82,418	$85,722	$89,236
				
3rd Long	$2,325	$2,700	$3,200	$3,700
Long 25	$81,769	$85,118	$88,922	$92,936
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$82,769	$86,218	$90,022	$94,036
NOTE: Effective February 2004, all members of the Child Study Teams shall be paid on this salary guide. Psychologists, Social Workers and LDTC’s who are not members of the Child Study Teams shall be paid on the appropriate teacher’s salary guide.
66
SECTION 3	CONSULTING PSYCHIATRIST, PHYSICAL THERAPIST ASSISTANT AND PIANIST SALARY
Effective July 1 st in each appropriate year
CONSULTING PSYCHIATRIST SALARY GUIDE
CONSULTING PSYCHIATRISTS				
				
Days Per Week	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
1	$25,403	$26,673	$28,087	$29,575
2	$50,806	$53,346	$56,174	$59,151
3	$76,209	$80,019	$84,260	$88,726
4	$101,612	$106,693	$112,347	$118,302
5	$127,015	$133,366	$140,434	$147,877
PHYSICAL THERAPIST ASSISTANT SALARY GUIDE
PHYSICAL THERAPIST ASSISTANT						
	i			
	2002-2003 | 2003-2004		2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
1	$34,200	$35,910	$37,815	$39,815
2	$35,177	$36,936	$38,893	$40,955
3	$36,283	$38,097	$40,116	$42,242
4	$39,150	$41,108	$43,286	$45,580
5	$40,617	$42,648	$44,908	$47,288
6	$45,023	$47,274	$49,780	*	$52,418
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$46,023	$48,474	$51,180	$54,118
- -	—	 ।				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$47,148	$49,674	$52,580	$55,718
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$49,273	$52,174	$55,580	$59,218
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$50,273	$53,274	$56,680	$60,318
67
PIANIST SALARY GUIDE
PIANIST	—			i
				1"
	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
1	$33,200	$34,430	$35,702	$37,020
2	$33,637	$34,860	$36,255	$37,594
3	$34,077	$35,319	$36,708	$38,176
4	$34,840	$35,781	$37,191	$38,653
5	$35,274	$36,582	$37,677	$39,162
6	$36,218	$37,038	$38,521	$39,674
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$37,218	$38,238	$39,921	$41,374
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$38,343	$39,438	$41,321	$42,974
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$40,468	$41,938	$44,321	$46,474
I				
4th Long;	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30 *	$41,4681	$43,038	$45,421	$47,574
68
SECTION 4	COURT REPRESENTATIVES SALARY GUIDE
Effective July 1 st each appropriate year
A.	SCHEDULE FOR BA LEVEL (Bachelors Degree)
COURT REPRESENTATIVES SALARY GUIDE
COURT REPRESENTATIVES - BACHELOR DEGREE LEVE1				
		i	i	i I	;	
	2002-2003	2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006		
STEP				
1	$44,821	$45,821	$47,821	$49,321
2	$46,750	$47,062	$48,250	$50,356
3	$48,563;	$49,088	$49,556	$51,100
4	$50,957	$51,450	$51,689	$52,183
5	$53,479	$53,550	$53,694	$54,429
6	$54,456	$56,153	$56,341	$56,539
7	$55,457	$57,179	$59,129	$59,327
8	$56,346	$58,230	$60,209	$62,263
9	$60,553	$60,738	$61,316	$63,400
10	$61,534	$63,581	$63,957	$64,566
11	$76,820	$79,519	$82,423	$85,437
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$77,820	$80,719	$83,823	$87,137
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$78,945	$81,919	$85,223	$88,737
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$81,070	$84,419	$88,223	$92,237
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$82,070	$85,519	$89,323	$93,337
69
B.	SCHEDULE FOR MA LEVEL (Masters Degree) (Bachelor Degree plus 30 Graduate Credits)
I I
COURT REPRESENTATIVES SALARY GUIDE
I
COURT REPRESENTATIVES - MASTER’S DEGREE LEVEL				
			1	]
	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
1	7	$46,283	$47,995	$49,770	$51,611
2	i $48,200	$48,597	$50,539	$52,408
3	$50,048	$50,610	$51,173	$53,217
4	$52,046	$52,550	$53,292	$53,885
5	$54,462	$54,648	$55,336	i $56,117
6	$54,965	$57,185	$57,545	i $58,268
7	$56,942	$57,713	$60,216	$60,595
8	$57,920	$59,789	$60,772	$63,407
9	$62,042	$62,391	$62,958	$63,993
10	$63,019	$65,144	$66,145	$67,392
11	$78,322	$81,219	$84,225	$87,341
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$79,322	$82,419	$85,625	$89,041
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$80,447	$83,619	$87,025	$90,641
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$82,572	$86,119	$90,025	$94,141
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$83,572	$87,219	$91,125	$95,241
70
C.	SCHEDULE FOR PHD LEVEL (Doctorate Degree) (Masters’ Degree plus 30 Graduate Credits or Bachelor Degree plus 60 Graduate Credits)
COURT REPRESENTATIVES SALARY
COURT REPRESENTATIVES - PHD EQUIVALENT LEVEL				
				i
	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
	$47,743	$49,509	$51,340	$53,260
2	$49,682	$50,130	$52,133	$54,061
3	$51,514	$52,166	$52,787	$54,896
4	$53,834	$54,090	$54,931	$55,585
5	$56,346	$56,526	$56,956	$57,842
6	$57,429	$59,163	$59,522	$59,975
7	$58,410	$60,300	$62,299	$62,676
8	$59,383	$61,331	$63,496	$65,601
9	$63,507	$63,402	$64,581	$66,862
10	$64,507	$66,682	$67,921	$69,057
11	$80,030	$82,991	$86,061	$89,245
! '				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$81,030	$84,191	$87,461	$90,945
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$82,155	$85,391	$88,861	$92,545
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	i $3,500
Long 25 j	।	$84,280	$87,891	$91,861	$96,045
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	'	$85,280	$88,991	$92,961	$97,145
71
I
I
SECTION 5	COORDINATOR SALARY GUIDES
Effective July 1st each appropriate year
COORDINATOR SALARY GUIDE
A.	SCHEDULE FOR BA LEVEL (Bachelors Degree)
I
COORDINATOR - BACHELOR DEGREE LEVEL				
			1	1	
	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
1	$42,250	$43,750	$45,450	$46,750
2	F $42,750	$44,250	$45,950	$47,350
3	$43,250	$44,775	$46,476	$48,000
4	$44,800	$45,300	$47,029	$48,820
5	$46,800	$46,928	$47,582	$49,402
6	$47,800	$49,028	$49,295	$49,984
7	$48,800	$50,078	$51,507	$51,789
8	$49,800	$51,128	$52,612	$54,117
9	$52,400	$53,175	$53,718	$55,282
10	$53,400	$54,908	$55,874	$56,446
11	$54,900	$55,958	$57,698	$58,716
12	$56,900	$57,533	$58,804	$60,637
13	$71,460	$74,159	$77,063	$80,077
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$72,460	$75,359	$78,463	$81,777
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$73,585	$76,559	$79,863	$83,377
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$75,710	$79,059	$82,863	$86,877
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$76,710	$80,159	$83,963	$87,977
72
I
COORDINATOR SALARY GUIDE
B.	SCHEDULE FOR MA LEVEL (Masters Degree) (Bachelor Degree plus 30 Graduate Credits)
COORDINATOR - MASTER’S DEGREE LEVEL				
				
	2002-2003	2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006		
STEP				
1	$43,750	$45,250	$46,950	$48,250
2	$44,250	$45,825	$47,450	$48,850
3	$44,750	$46,350	$48,134	$49,500
4	$46,150	$46,875	$48,687	$50,566
5	$48,150	$48,345	$49,240	$51,148
6	$49,150	$50,445	$50,788	$51,731
7	$50,150	$51,495	$52,999	$53,361
8	$51,150	$52,545	$54,105	$55,689
9	$53,750	$54,645	$55,211	$56,853
10	$54,750	$56,325	$57,422	$58,018
11	$56,250	$57,375	$59,191	$60,346
12	$58,250	$58,950	$60,297	$62,209
13	$74,226	$76,926	$79,830	$82,844
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$75,226	$78,126	$81,230	$84,544
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$76,351	$79,326	$82,630	$86,144
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$78,476	$81,826	$85,630	$89,644
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$79,476	$82,926	$86,730	$90,744
73
COORDINATOR SALARY GUIDE
C.	SCHEDULE FOR PHD LEVEL (Doctorate Degree) (Masters’ Degree plus 30 Graduate Credits or Bachelor Degree plus 60 Graduate Credits)
COORDINATOR - PHDEQUIVALENT LEVEL				
				1
	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
STEP				
1	$45,250	$46,750	$48,450	$49,750
2	$45,750	$47,400	$48,950	$50,350
3	$46,250	$47,925	$49,793	$51,000
4	$47,500	$48,450	$50,346	$52,313
5	$49,450	$49,763	$50,899	$52,895
6	$50,450	$51,863	$52,281	$53,477
7	$51,450	$52,913	$54,492	$54,932
8	$52,450	$53,963	$55,598	$57,261
9	$55,100	$56,063	$56,703	$58,425
10	$56,100	$57,743	$58,915	$59,589
11	$57,580	$58,793	$60,684	$61,918
12	$59,600	$60,347	$61,789	$63,781
13	$77,007	$79,707	$82,611	$85,625
				
1st Long	$1,000	$1,200	$1,400	$1,700
Long 15	$78,007	$80,907	$84,011	$87,325
				
2ng Long	$2,125	$2,400	$2,800	$3,300
Long 20	$79,132	$82,107	$85,411	$88,925
				
3rd Long	$2,125	$2,500	$3,000	$3,500
Long 25	$81,257	$84,607	$88,411	$92,425
				
4th Long	$1,000	$1,100	$1,100	$1,100
Long 30	$82,257	$85,7071	$89,511	$93,525
74
II
SECTION 6	NEWARK EVENING SCHOOL TEXTBOOK CLERK SALARY GUIDE
TEXTBOOK CLERK - EVENING SCHOOL				
				
	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
	$21,651	$22,734	$23,938	$25,207
NEWARK EVENING SCHOOL
ASSISTANT TEXTBOOK CLERK SALARY GUIDE
ASSISTANT TEXTBOOK CLERK - EVENING SCHOOL				
				
	2002-2003	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
	$14,628	$15,359	$16,173	$17,031
SECTION 7	LICENSED PRACTICAL NURSE SALARY GUIDE
LICENSED PRACTICAL NURSE			
STEP	2003-2004	2004-2005	2005-2006
1	$35,000	$36,900	$38,800
2	$37,000	$39,000	$41,000
3	$39,000	$41,100	$43,300
4	$41,000	$43,200	$45,500
5	$43,000	$45,300	$47,700
6	$45,000	$47,400	$49,900
75
SECTION 8	CORRECTING PAYROLL ERRORS
Payroll errors will be corrected by the next payroll.
SECTION 9	WRONG STEP
If an employee claims that he/she has been placed on the wrong step of the salary schedule applicable to her and presents satisfactory evidence to Human Resource Services establishing her/his claim, the salary of the employee shall be adjusted to the proper step and retroactive payment shall be made to the employee for the full time during which the employee should have been on the proper step. Such adjustment shall also be made if such an incorrect placement is discovered by Human Resource Services even if the employee makes no claim.
SECTION 10	TIME REPORTS
A time report will be submitted at the close of the first working day listing all employees in the bargaining unit, or those who, if absent, have properly notified the school of their absence and reasons, therefore. This time report will be the basis for the first salary payment in September and only employees listed on this time report will be paid on the first salary payment date as contained in the schedule of paydays immediately below. In the event of any hardship for employees who are placed on the payroll list after the first working day, such an employee may receive his/her salary in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, Article XVII, Section 3, with respect to “Correcting Payroll Errors” Time Reports will be prepared by the school once each month except that individuals employed after the first working day, after submission of each payroll list, shall be added to the payroll by sending in a supplementary time report as of one week prior to the next scheduled pay day. Subsequent time reports will be submitted on the first payday of each month. A final time report for the academic year will be submitted three (3) days before the last working day of the year listing teacher absences from the first payday in June. The school Principal shall bring to the Newark Public Schools Payroll Division on the last working day a final time report indicating absences for the last three (3) working days.
76
SECTION 11	PAYDAYS
A.	10 OR 12 MONTH OPTION
Employees shall have the option of receiving their salary on a ten (10) or twelve (12) month basis.
Those employees who select a twelve (12) month schedule have two (2) pay options.
Option 1: One (1) check at the end of the school year.
Option 2: Four (4) checks paid throughout the summer. An escrow deduction, regardless of option selected, shall be at a rate of approximately 10% of your bi-weekly gross.
B.	Both ten (10) and twelve (12) month employees covered under this agreement shall be paid on a bi-weekly basis- every other Friday.
C.	All employees are entitled to be paid on the appropriate payday.
D.	Effective September 1, 2001, the five (5) day salary holdback will be eliminated. The first paycheck in September will be for nine (9) days.
For actual pay dates, refer to the Newark Teachers Union Pocket Calendar for the school years 2003-2004, 2004-2005 and 2005-2006.
SECTION 12	MAILED CHECKS
Payroll checks, which, under existing practices are distributed by mail, shall be mailed the day before other payroll checks are delivered to the schools.
SECTION 13	EXPENSES FOR ATTENDANCE COUNSELORS, SPECIAL INVESTIGATORS, COURT REPRESENTATIVES AND HOME INSTRUCTORS
The employees in the titles listed above (attendance counselors, special investigators, court representatives and home instructors) will receive forty-five dollars ($45) per month. Effective July 1, 2004, the employees in the titles listed above (attendance counselors, special investigators, court representatives and home instructors) will receive sixty dollars ($60) per month.
77
SECTION 14	COMPENSATION FOR GUIDANCE COUNSELORS
Guidance counselors shall be compensated on a pro-rata basis for additional time worked beyond the regular school day and the school year when authorized.
SECTION 15	RECREATION DIRECTORS
When and if a recreational program is instituted, salaries for positions in that program covered by N.T.U. recognition clause, will be negotiated at that time.
SECTION 16	PAYROLL CHECK PICKUP FOR ITINERANTS
An itinerant teacher or librarian shall be given the option of selecting one of the schools in which he/she works as the site at which he/she shall receive his/her regular payroll check. Such a selection shall be made at the beginning of the school year and remain in effect for that year unless a change in assignment justifies a change in site.
SECTION 17	TRANSPORTATION REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PERSONAL AUTOMOBILES AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL WORK
A.	CHILD STUDY TEAM REIMBURSEMENT
Social Workers, Psychologists and Learning Consultants shall be reimbursed for use of their cars in the performance of official work traveling from one work site to another work site.
B.	TRAVELING TO MORE THAN ONE SITE
Reimbursement shall be given only if the worker must travel to more than one site during the school day. No reimbursement shall be made if the employee remains on his/her work site for the entire day.
C.	DEPARTURE POINT
The departure point shall the individual’s scheduled work location in commuting the cost.
D.	PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION OR IRS MILEAGE ALLOWANCE Reimbursement shall be either the cost of public transportation if used, or the IRS mileage allowance if a private automobile is used.
78
1
E.	MONTHLY VOUCHERS
Vouchers for travel reimbursement shall be prepared monthly and shall be submitted to the Director of the Division for review and approval by the fifth (5th) day of the month.
F.	REIMBURSEMENT WITHIN 30 WORKING DAYS
The mileage allowance shall be paid within thirty (30) working days after the voucher is submitted to the director of the division and shall be paid by separate check.
SECTION 18 GRANT PROGRAMS
The Newark Public Schools and the Newark Teachers Union hereby agree to the following payments to participate in Grant Program projects:
1.	All payments to employees will be made through the Payroll system and will be issued by separate check.
2.	The hourly rate for participation and/or service will be $37.00 for the duration of the contract (2003-2006) with a cap of $1,110 per grant program. This shall apply to grants of $15,000 or less.
3.	The cap may be waived by mutual agreement of the parties.
4.	The grant programs subject to the language set forth include but are not limited to:
A.	School Based Management
B.	Partners in Learning
C.	City Schools of Excellence
D.	Kids in Business
4' 44;	--	--------- _
79
ARTICLE XV	- EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The Newark Public Schools and the Union jointly recognize alcoholism and
chemical dependency as an illness, which can be successfully treated. It is also recognized that it is in the best interest of the employee, the Newark Public Schools and the Union that this illness be treated and controlled under the existing collective bargaining contractual agreement.
A joint Labor/Management Program shall be established for the purpose of helping the individual with the disease to recover. The program shall be constructed and designed to achieve rehabilitation, rather than for employee displacement. The Newark Public Schools and Union may establish such programs by contractual agreement with an agency or institution qualified to provide such services as necessary and proper to conduct this program.
The Newark Public Schools and Union agree to provide training, i.e. workshops and seminars, etc., which train employees to be knowledgeable in areas impacted by chemical dependency. Such training shall assist employees in recognizing behavior patterns, which indicate that the employee has, or is developing alcoholism or chemical dependency as a serious, but treatable disease. Said training shall also focus on explanation of the causes; progressive nature and treatment. The employee’s failure to participate shall be considered grounds for discipli-
nary action.
ARTICLE XVI	- QUALITY CONTROL/DISCIPLINE COMMITTEES
A.	A quality control committee shall be appointed yearly. It shall consist of (a) Assistant State District Superintendent in charge of Physical Facilities or designee (b) two (2) instructional administrators appointed by the State District Superintendent and (c) three (3) Union members nominated by the Union. The committee shall consider and review complaints relative to the quality of instructional materials, food, apparatus, equipment, furniture, and other items pertaining to effective operational procedures of schools. The Committee shall be set up no later than one (1) month following the ratification of this agreement. The committee will meet monthly during the school year after school hours.

B.	A joint committee on discipline shall be established. The committees shall meet four (4) times per year to discuss discipline, violence and vandalism. The committee shall be composed of not more than five (5) Union appointees and five (5) Superintendent appointees.
ARTICLE XVII	- FEDERAL SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING
The Newark Public Schools recognizes the educational value derived from programs made available by federal supplemental funding sources. In the event of federal cut backs on funds, the Newark Public Schools and the Union agree to combine their efforts to seek funding from, city, state, federal and private sources in order to maintain a level of scope of any meritorious programs so affected.
ARTICLE XVIII	- CURRICULUM REVISIONS
SECTION 1 CURRICULUM COMMITTEE
To serve the needs of Newark students in a changing society, curriculum revisions and educational improvement on all levels from early childhood through high school must be an ongoing process in the schools in Newark. In order to involve the direct participation of the Newark Teachers Union, as the collective negotiation representative of teachers and other instructional employees, in the process, the Newark Public Schools agrees that l/3rd of all members of any curriculum committee, present and/or future, who are represented by the Newark Teachers Union shall be appointed from a list of nominees shall contain twice the number of names as positions to be filled.
All meetings of any curriculum committee by the Assistant State District Superintendent in charge of Curriculum Services shall take place during regular school hours. Teachers shall be released from their regular duties on such times and days of regular school hours in which the respective committee functions, as directed by the assistant State District Superintendent in charge of curriculum services, in order to perform research or other activities necessary to accomplish the work of such committee.
81
Substitute coverage, where required, shall be provided for each Curriculum committee member who is released from regular duty, Curriculum committee members shall not suffer any loss of salary, sick or personal days while participating on the various curriculum committee.
The Newark Public Schools shall notify the Union prior to the establishment of any new curriculum committee. Included in each notice shall be:
1.	Name and title of Committee.
2.	Specific objective of the Committee.
3.	Total number of people on the Committee.
4.	Number of people to be appointed from nominee’s of the Union.
Time and place of the first meeting of the committee within two weeks after receipt of such notification, the Union shall submit to the Assistant State District Superintendent in charge of Curriculum Services the names of its nominee for the committee as provided above. Within two weeks after receipt of the list of Union nominees, the Assistant State District Superintendent in charge of the Curriculum Services shall notify the union of the names of the appointees selected from the nominees.
In addition, there shall be a conference conducted each December and April between a representative committee of no more than five (5) individuals representing the Newark Teachers Union with the Assistant State District Superintendent in charge of Curriculum Services and their immediate staff members of the Assistant State District Superintendent. The purpose of this conference will be to afford the Union an opportunity of presenting to the Department of Curriculum Services its concerns and views with respect to any overall curricular activities within the Newark Public School System.
SECTION 2 OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE ON SPECIAL EDUCATION
The district will continue its quarterly Oversight Committee on Special Education meetings, which shall include two (2) members selected by the Newark Teachers Union.
■
■
■
82
■
■
■
ARTICLE XIX - MATTERS NOT COVERED
SECTION 1	SUPERSEDED POLICY, RULE OR REGULATION
Any previously adopted policy, rule or regulation of the Newark Public Schools, which is in conflict with a provision of this Agreement, shall be superseded and replaced by the applicable provision of this Agreement.
SECTION 2	NO CHANGES: WAGES, HOURS, CONDITIONS
The school district agrees that it will make no change in existing policy or practice related to employee wages, hours and conditions of employment and not specifically covered by this Agreement without prior negotiations with the Union.
SECTION 3	NEW CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS
Negotiations on a new contract shall commence no sooner than October 1, 1999 upon the receipt from the Union of a written request for same. Negotiations for a new contract are subject to NJSA 34:13A-1 et seq.
SECTION 4	SUBCONTRACTING
The Newark Public Schools shall not contract (privatize) any schools or jobs without prior negotiation with the Newark Teachers Union. Such negotiations shall be limited to the terms of separation for tenured teachers whose jobs are eliminated by the subcontracting.
ARTICLE XX	- NEW JOB TITLES OR CATEGORIES
A.	30 DAYS ADVANCE NOTICE TO UNION
When a new job title or new category of employees whose activities are substantially similar to those of three (3) hour aides, six (6) hour aides, school clerks and non-administrative instructional personnel are established by the Newark Public Schools, the Newark Public Schools shall provide the Union with notice thereof, thirty (30) days in advance of it’s establishment.
B.	UNION JURISDICTION
If the Union asserts that the title or category of employees is within the jurisdiction of its bargaining unit it shall make such demand to the Newark Public Schools in writing. The Newark Public Schools shall respond in writing within five (5) working days.
83
I
C.	NEGOTIATIONS OVER WORKING CONDITIONS
In the event the parties agree that the title or category is within the Union’s bargaining unit, negotiations concerning the working conditions for the title or category shall commence forthwith.
D.	FAILURE TO AGREE ON TITLE/CATEGORY
In the event the parties fail to agree on the working conditions of such title or
category, the Newark Public Schools may fill the position on the thirty-first (31st) day following the notice to the Union contained in paragraph one (1). Upon subsequent agreement any working conditions, which are capable of being made retroactive, shall be implemented.
ARTICLE XXI	- TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
SECTION 1 TEACHERS
A. The Newark Public Schools agrees to reimburse the cost of tuition not to exceed $230 per credit for courses receiving prior approval from the Office of Staff Development.
To be eligible for tuition reimbursement, course(s) shall be:
1.	Courses that are part of a matriculated graduate program in the present
teaching field
2.	In a field to which the teacher may be assigned within the district
3.	The Office of Staff Development shall grant approval for tuition reimbursement for graduate level courses in instructional methodologies, learning theory, etc. (see below).
Courses must be offered by an accredited college or university and listed in the college or course catalogue. Credit and approval for programs outside the regularly sponsored university schedule/program may be approved on an
individual basis by the Deputy Superintendent of Schools whose decision is final and not subject to the grievance procedure.

Courses which include study in the following areas shall be approved for reimbursement:
(1)	teaching skills
(2)	values clarification
(3)	learning theory
(4)	writing across content areas
(5)	critical thinking skills
(6)	curriculum development
(7)	classroom management
(8)	contemporary social issues
(9)	subject matter course(s) in the teacher’s area(s) of certification
(10)	courses outside a teacher’s area of certification that relate to the teacher’s course(s) of study
Courses which include study in the Non-specific Generic Foundation courses listed below shall also be approved for reimbursement:
(1)	drug and alcohol abuse awareness.
(2)	suicide awareness
(3)	school law
(4)	contemporary health issues awareness
(5)	computer literacy
(6)	developmental psychology
B.	Applications for reimbursement shall be submitted no later than forty-five (45) prior to the beginning of the college academic term.
C.	Written approval for tuition reimbursement must be received from the Office of Staff Development prior to registration on a prescribed form available in the Office of Staff Development.
D.	One hundred percent (100%) payment for the above shall be forthcoming within forty-five (45) days upon receipt of official evidence of satisfactory completion of coursework. For the purpose of this program satisfactory is equivalent to a ‘B’ or better. Fifty percent (50%) reimbursement will be for grade of ‘C’.
E.	A teacher will be limited to six (6) credits per year except for those areas specified in section 6 in which case twelve (12) credits per year will be the limit.
85
F.	The Newark Public Schools shall allocate a sum of $225,000 for the 2003-2004 school year. Effective July 1, 2004, increase the annual amount to $250,000 and the per credit amount to $250.
These funds shall not accumulate or carry over from one year to the next. The approval of tuition reimbursement applications will be given on a first come first serve basis until the allocation has been fully committed, except preference will be given regardless of the submission date to teachers certified in the areas of Mathematics, Science, Special Education (including child study team positions) and English (Undergraduate courses in these areas are also eligible for reimbursement if these courses are a part of the requirements for certification.). The same preference criteria will be applied to teachers seeking to be certified in these areas. Undergraduate courses will not be considered for horizontal advancement for employees hired on or after July 1, 2001. Teachers approved for tuition reimbursement shall forfeit the value of the reimbursement if the teacher resigns/retires from the district within three (3) years of the date the teacher received the reimbursement. A teacher shall not receive reimbursement for such course(s) if he/she indicates in writing the intent to the leave the district prior to receipt of notice of official satisfactory completion of the course. A committee consisting of two (2) district and two (2) union representatives shall meet on a quarterly basis to review the program.
SECTION 2 CLERKS & AIDES
A.	Effective September 1, 2004, twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per year shall be allocated for tuition reimbursement for full time clerks and full time aides who are matriculated in undergraduate accredited degree programs leading to both a Bachelors degree and teacher certification.
B.	All of the requirements and rules related to tuition reimbursement for teachers in Sections 1 through 6 of this Article shall also apply to clerks and aides.
C.	Clerks and aides who accept tuition reimbursement must continue to be employed by the NPS for a minimum of two (2) full years beyond the date of the most recent tuition reimbursement. Failure to be employed for two (2) full years, beyond the date of the last tuition reimbursement will lead to a requirement that the clerk or aide repay the NPS for all tuition reimbursement monies she/her received in the two (2) years immediately preceding his/her termination of employment.
86
ARTICLE XXII - PEER COACHES AND/OR MENTOR TEACHERS
SECTION 1	EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
The office of Instructional Staff Development will facilitate the presentation of the AFT program that addresses classroom organization and management. A team trained in this program from the Newark Teachers Union will present the program. Each new teacher will be engaged in this one (1) day program. The Newark Public Schools will arrange for the availability of the trainees. The Newark Public Schools will accommodate the release time for the Newark Teachers Union designated trainers.
A.	The Newark Public Schools shall contribute one-half (1/2) of the cost of cosponsored ER&D trainers for in-service instruction up to a maximum contribution of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) per year. The Superintendent’s prior approval of course content, course duration, location and instructor is required.
B.	Whenever the Newark Public Schools determines that any or all of the following district wide positions are to be filled, ER&D Coordinator, Robotic Coordinator, Jersey Urban Debate League Coordinator, the teacher(s) selected for the position(s) shall be assigned to a specific high school or central office location. The Coordinator shall teach or otherwise be involved in the instructional program at his/her respective high school or central office location for forty percent of his/her workday. For the remainder of the in-school workday the Coordinator shall have district-wide responsibilities at a location or locations designated by the Superintendent or her/his designee.
SECTION 2	TEACHER ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (TAP)
A teacher assistance program shall be conducted each year. The Program is designed to give tenured teachers who have received an annual rating of unsatisfactory an opportunity to strengthen their pedagogical and content knowledge.
87
Throughout a period of one year, Teacher Assistance Program Teachers will work with tenured teachers who have received an unsatisfactory annual rating to improve their instructional skills, content knowledge, management skills and professional attitudes. Throughout the length of the program, teachers will be encouraged to be self-evaluative, reflective and corrective. This intensive program is an attempt to bring the marginal teacher to a satisfactory level of performance.
SECTION 3	MENTOR PROGRAM
The Mentor Program shall function in accordance with the guidelines established by the State Department of Education.
SECTION 4	IN-SERVICE COURSES:
NATIONAL TEACHERS EXAMINATION
The Newark Public Schools agrees to continue its practice of conducting inservice courses designed to help provisional appointees and long-term substitutes to prepare for the National Teachers Examinations. Such courses will be continued provided that at least 15 candidates are in attendance.
SECTION 5	ONE DAY TRAINING WORKSHOP SPONSORED BY
NTU AND NPS
The Newark Public Schools and the Newark Teachers Union shall jointly sponsor an annual one day training and development workshop. The workshop will be held on a day on which the schools are closed and attendance by teachers, clerks and aides shall be voluntary. The Newark Public Schools and the Newark Teachers Union shall equally share the cost of the workshop.
A committee consisting of five (5) representatives appointed by the State District Superintendent and five (5) representatives appointed by the Newark Teachers Union shall be appointed each year. The joint committee shall be responsible for all aspects of the workshop including planning, advertising, presenting speaker selection, location and duration.
ARTICLE XXIII	- LABOR HISTORY
The NPS acknowledges the importance of Labor History in our society. Therefore, it encourages the after-school development of courses to be taught and funded by the NTU for district employees.
88
ARTICLE XXIV	- OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
The Newark Public Schools and the Union agree to formulate guidelines and establish an oversight committee for the implementation and monitoring of School Based Management sites and the Staff Development School.
ARTICLE XXV	- AVAILABILITY OF CONTRACT
Within one (1) month of the signing of this Agreement by the parties, the Union shall procure 7,500 copies of this Agreement printed in a Union House, cost to be borne by the Newark Public Schools.
ARTICLE XXVI	- NO STRIKE
SECTION 1	NO STRIKE, WORK STOPPAGE OR REFUSAL TO WORK
The Union agrees that during the period of this Agreement, there shall be no strike, work stoppage or other concerted refusal to perform work by the employees covered by this Agreement or any instigation thereof.
SECTION 2	NO LOCKOUTS
The Newark Public Schools agrees that during the period of this Agreement, there shall be no lockouts of the employees covered by this Agreement or instigation thereof.
ARTICLE XXVII	- CONFORMITY TO LAW AND SAVINGS
If any provision of this Agreement is or shall at any time be determined contrary to law by a court or competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall not be applicable or performed, or enforced except to the extent permitted by law. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is or shall at any time be determined to be contrary to law by a court of competent jurisdiction, all other provisions of this Agreement shall continue in effect.
89

ARTICLE XXVIII	- AGENCY SHOP
The Newark Public Schools and the Newark Teachers Union, Local 481, A.F.T./AFL-CIO agree that the Newark Public Schools shall deduct the sum of eighty-five (85%) percent of the rate of the N.T.U. Union dues from each and every nonunion member of the bargaining unit represented by the Newark Teachers Union and shall remit this agency shop fee to the Newark Teachers Union on a bi-weekly basis. This agency shop agreement shall conform to all provisions of the New Jersey agency shop statute. Furthermore, this agreement is subject to Newark Public Schools approval.
ARTICLE XXIX	- DURATION
This agreement and each of its provisions shall be binding and effective as of the 1st day of July 2003 and shall continue in full force and effect until and through the 30th day of June 2006.
In Witness Whereof, the Union and the Newark Public School ratified this document as of December 4, 2003.

90