Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Chicago City Board of Education and Chicago Teachers Union, American Federation of Teachers (AFT), AFL-CIO, Local 1 (1999)
K#: 830223
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
between the Board of Education of the City of Chicago and
Chicago Teachers Union Local 1
American Federation of Teachers AFL-CIO
July 1, 1999-June 30, 2003
OFFICERS
of the CHICAGO TEACHERS UNION
Thomas H. Reece....................... President
Norma J. White ..................Vice	President
Pamelyn Massarsky.......... Recording Secretary
Michael J. Williams ....... Financial	Secretary
Melvin Wilson.........................Treasurer
CHICAGO TEACHERS UNION 222 Merchandise Mart Plaza, Suite 400 Chicago, Illinois 60654-1016
AGREEMENT
between the
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF CHICAGO
and the
CHICAGO TEACHERS UNION
Local No. 1 American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO
July 1, 1999
June 30, 2003
CONTENTS
Page
Preamble............................................. 1
Article
1.	Recognition ..................................... 2
2.	Fair Practices.................................. 13
3.	Grievance Procedure............................. 14
4.	Elementary School ...............................20
5.	Upper Grade Center...............................25
6.	High School .....................................27
7.	Elementary School Counselors ....................34
8.	Assistant Principals.............................35
9.	Career Service Personnel ........................36
10.	Counselors..................................... 49
11.	Driver Education Teachers ..................... 50
12.	Re-Engineering Failing Schools ................ 51
13.	Extracurricular Personnel...................... 52
14.	Year-Round Schools ............................ 53
15.	Librarians: Elementary and High School ........ 54
16.	Physical Education Teachers ................... 56
17.	Playground Teachers............................ 57
18.	Practical Arts and Vocational Education Teachers .60
19.	Psychologists ................................. 62
20.	School Social Workers ......................... 63
21.	Special Education Teachers .................... 64
22.	Stadium Directors ............................. 69
23.	Classification of Substitute Teachers ......... 69
24.	Summer School ................................. 73
25.	Teacher Assistants ............................ 75
26.	School Nurses ................................. 76
27.	Class Coverage ................................ 77
Article	Page
28.	Class Size .................................... 80
29.	Curriculum Guide and Textbook Evaluation
Committees .................................... 88
30.	Discipline .................................... 88
31.	Duplicating Facilities ........................ 90
32.	Insurance ..................................... 91
33.	Leaves of Absence.............................. 97
34.	Personnel Files: Board of Education........... 104
35.	Promotional and Professional Opportunities ... 106
36.	Salaries...................................... 108
37.	Unused Sick Pay............................... 117
38.	Teacher Assignment Procedure ................. 119
39.	Teacher Efficiency Ratings ................... 123
40.	Teacher Programming .......................... 131
41.	Teaching Load ................................ 133
42.	Transfer Policy and Procedure ................ 134
43.	Vacations .................................... 142
44.	General Provisions............................ 145
45.	Committees ................................... 154
46.	Integration—Quality Education ................ 158
47.	Conformity ................................... 159
48.	Representation................................ 161
49.	Conclusion ................................... 162
Appendix A—Salary Schedules ....................... 164
Appendix B—Contributions to Health Care Plan .......264
Appendix C—Procedures for Waivers ..................265
Index ..............................................235
AGREEMENT between THE BOARD OF EDUCATION of the CITY OF CHICAGO and the CHICAGO TEACHERS UNION Local No. 1 American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO
Agreement made and entered into on the eighteenth day of November, A.D. nineteen hundred and ninety nine, by and between the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (hereinafter referred to as the BOARD) and the Chicago Teachers Union, Local No. 1, American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as the UNION).
PREAMBLE
The BOARD and the UNION recognize that they have a common responsibility to work together toward the achievement of quality education. The attainment of this objective requires mutual understanding and cooperation between both parties and all members of the professional staff.
It is recognized that teaching requires specialized qualifications as well as educational requirements and that the success of the educational program depends upon the maximum utilization of the abilities of teachers who are reasonably well satisfied with the conditions under which they work, who are assured of a fair reward and security in their profession, and who are cooperatively working for the achievement of effective programs of education.
A free and open exchange of views is desirable and necessary, with all parties participating in deliberations leading to agreement in matters of mutual concern and to approaches that will increase the effectiveness of teachers in the classroom and in the community.
The BOARD, the General Superintendent and staff, and the UNION, through a series of meetings, have set up this Agreement, have formulated general objectives that are mutually acceptable, and shall develop long-range educational goals and programs in areas of mutual concern.
1
The General Superintendent, administrative officers, and the officers of the UNION recognize that the best interests of public education will be served through the establishment of procedures that will provide an orderly way to discuss matters of common concern, to reach agreement satisfactory to each, and to appeal through channels designated in this Agreement.
It is the intent that this joint effort will contribute in significant measure to the advancement of public education in the City of Chicago.
It is the intent of both parties that all discussions and conferences growing out of this Agreement be held in an atmosphere of good faith, confidence, and mutual respect.
ARTICLE 1 — RECOGNITION
1-1. The BOARD recognizes the UNION as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for the following categories: elementary and secondary teachers (hereinafter referred to as teachers); and all full-time truant officers, school library assistants, audiometric technicians, vision screening technicians, school clerks, teacher assistants, school community representatives, school assistants, school assistants (bilingual), school social service assistants, teacher assis-tants-Montessori Program, instructor assistants, educational sign language interpreters, interpreter clerks, speech pathology assistants, speech pathology aides, licensed practical nurses, guidance counselor aides, occupational therapists, and occupational therapist assistants (hereinafter referred to as other bargaining unit members).
1-2. The Chicago Teachers Union, in accordance with Board Reports 74069, 67-1256, 68-169, and 70-1092, is recognized as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for all those categories listed in the teachers' bargaining unit (Article 1-1). No other group or organization or representative thereof shall be recognized or permitted to engage in behalf of any employees included in the CTU bargaining unit in any activities concerning wages, hours, or terms and conditions of employment, including the submission of proposals, participation in hearings, conferences, or meetings for the above purposes and any other group or collective action dealing with above-described matters. However, the above provi
2
sions shall not preclude the right of an individual to present grievances on his or her own behalf or to submit suggestions to the General Superintendent as individuals, or to prevent groups or organizations from presenting suggestions or proposals at the annual public hearing on the budget prescribed by statute.
1-3. It is not the intent of this Agreement to discriminate in any way against any teacher or other bargaining unit member regardless of membership or nonmembership in any employee organization.
1-4. Teachers or other bargaining unit members who participate in the process of resolving grievances or professional problems in the manner indicated herein shall not be subject to discrimination for such action.
1-5. The General Superintendent of Schools and the UNION shall have the right of free choice in designating representatives for the purpose of resolving grievances and professional problems.
1-6. The resolution of all grievances and professional problems shall be in accordance with the procedures which are a part of this Agreement.
1-7. The Office of the General Superintendent shall, upon request, furnish to the UNION available and pertinent reports, statistics, and general information concerning the Chicago schools. The General Superintendent shall have the same right to receive pertinent information from the UNION.
The Office of the General Superintendent shall furnish to the UNION information necessary to the intelligent and professional resolution of specific grievances and professional problems of teachers or other bargaining unit members. Any such information shall be made available only with the consent of the teacher or other bargaining unit member involved and shall be kept in confidence unless otherwise agreed. The General Superintendent shall have the same right to receive pertinent information from the UNION.
Copies of special Board reports distributed at regular Board meetings shall be given to the Union representative attending such meetings, upon request from said representative, at the time said reports are given to representatives of city
3
wide organizations.
Board reports pertaining to matters covered in the collective bargaining Agreement shall be sent to the President of the UNION prior to the Wednesday Board meeting at which they are to be considered. Insofar as it is possible to do so, at the request of the President of the UNION, the Superintendent of Schools shall discuss any such report with the President prior to said meeting. Bulletins pertaining to matters covered in the collective bargaining Agreement shall be discussed with the President of the UNION before they are distributed.
1-7.1. The Office of the General Superintendent agrees to supply the UNION with the following reports as long as such reports are prepared: (1) teacher payroll step and lane report, (2) monthly teacher substitute activity report.
1-7.2. The UNION shall furnish the Office of the General Superintendent of Schools with five copies of the current school delegate's handbook.
1-7.3. The Office of the General Superintendent of Schools shall provide the principal of each school through E-Mail or otherwise with a weekly (or as published) Superintendent's bulletin. Upon receipt, the principal shall provide a copy of the bulletin to the School Delegate.
1-8. The BOARD shall deduct from the pay of each teacher or other bargaining unit member from whom it receives an authorization to do so the required amount of fees for the payment of UNION dues. Such fees, accompanied by a list of persons from whom they have been deducted and the amount deducted from each, and by a list of persons who had authorized deductions and from whom no deduction was made and the reason therefore, shall be forwarded to the UNION office no later than 5 school days after such deductions were made. Such lists shall be made on a school-by-school basis.
Any bargaining unit member may terminate the dues checkoff during August by submitting written notice to the Office of Voluntary Deductions and the Chicago Teachers Union.
1-8.1. Effective September 1, 1995, the BOARD shall deduct from the pay of each full-time teacher or other
4
full-time bargaining unit member who is a member of the United Credit Union from whom it receives an authorization to do so the monthly amount authorized by the member for savings/shares in the United Credit Union. One deduction shall be made each school month, September to June, inclusive.
Each eligible member of the collective bargaining unit may have one authorization agreement and one option to increase or decrease the member's share/savings during the calendar year. The cost of this service for the school years 1999-2000, 2000-2001, 2001-2002, and 2002-2003 shall be borne by the United Credit Union at a service fee of $9,500 each year
Such amounts accompanied by a list of persons from whom they have been deducted (in Social Security sequence); showing the amount deducted from each, accompanied by a magnetic tape in Social Security sequence, shall be made available to the United Credit Union office no later than 5 school days after such deductions are made.
The United Credit Union shall submit authorization cards for deduction upon forms approved by the General Superintendent of Schools. The authorization card shall include a statement of acceptance of the conditions which incorporates the provisions of Recommendation II, parts two through six of Board Report No. 73364 (September 22, 1965).
1-8-2.
a)	All full-time employees covered by this Agreement who are not members of the UNION, commencing on the effective date of this Agreement, or 60 days after their initial employment, and continuing during the term of this Agreement, and so long as they remain nonmembers of the UNION, shall pay to the UNION each month their fair share of the costs of the services rendered by the UNION that are chargeable to nonmembers under state and federal law.
b)	The UNION shall certify to the BOARD a fair share amount not to exceed the dues uniformly required of members in conformity with federal and state law and Labor Board rules.
c)	Such fair share payment by nonmembers shall be de
5
ducted by the BOARD from the earnings of the nonmember employees and remitted to the UNION within ten (10) work days of said deduction unless required to remit a fee to the Labor Board for escrow.
d)	The BOARD shall cooperate with the UNION to ascertain the names of all employee nonmembers of the UNION from whose earnings the fair share payments shall be deducted and their work locations and shall provide the UNION space to post a notice concerning fair share.
e)	The UNION and the BOARD shall comply with the rules of the Labor Board concerning notice, objections, and related matters contained in its fair share rules.
f)	Upon adoption of any UNION internal appeal procedure, the UNION shall supply the BOARD with a copy. In addition, the UNION shall advise the BOARD of subsequent changes therein.
g)	The UNION shall indemnify and hold harmless the BOARD, its members, officers, agents, and employees from and against any forms of liability that shall arise out of, or by reason of action taken by the BOARD for the purposes of complying with the above provisions of this Article, or in reliance on any list, notice, certification, affidavit, or assignment furnished by the UNION under any such provisions. The UNION shall be responsible for the attorney's fees of any attorney for the BOARD. Such attorney shall be selected by the UNION subject to approval by the BOARD, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
h)	If, during the term of this Agreement, the Labor Board or a court of competent jurisdiction rules any part of this Article void or not enforceable, the UNION and the BOARD agree to convene negotiations on this matter immediately for the sole purpose of bringing this Article into compliance with the standards or rulings of said Labor Board or court.
i)	Nothing in this Article shall inhibit or interfere with the right of non-association of employees based upon bonafide religious tenets or teaching of a church or religious body of which such employees are members. Such employees shall pay an amount equal to their pro
6
portionate share determined under a proportionate share agreement to a non-religious charitable organization mutually agreed upon by the employees affected and the exclusive representative to which such employees would otherwise pay such fee. If the affected employees and the exclusive representative are unable to reach an agreement on the matter, an organization shall be chosen from an approved list of charitable organizations established by the Illinois Educational Labor Relations Board.
1-8.3. Effective with pay period number 21, 1999, the BOARD agrees to electronically wire transfer monies deducted from the salary warrants of each applicable member of the bargaining unit to the respective tax sheltered annuity carrier or mutual fund after such deductions are made.
1-8.4. The BOARD agrees to deduct from the pay of each teacher or other bargaining unit member from whom it receives an authorization to do so the monthly amount authorized by the member to be paid to the Chicago Teachers Union Political Action Committee. The BOARD shall charge the UNION a service fee of $1.00 per member enrolled per year.
1-9. The General Superintendent shall meet monthly at a mutually agreeable time with the President of the UNION and/or the President's designee to discuss matters of educational policy and development as well as matters relating to the implementation of this Agreement.
1-10. The principal of a school shall meet at least once a month during the school term with the UNION'S Professional Problems Committee at the request of either party to discuss school operations and questions other than grievances relating to the implementation of the Agreement provided, however, that there shall be such a meeting at least once a month at the Professional Problems Committee's request. The principal shall be supplied with an agenda of the items the Committee wishes to cover at least 48 hours before any meeting is to take place. The principal may have in attendance any resource person whose presence is needed in connection with a subject on the agenda. Any item the principal places on a meeting agenda shall be supplied to mem
7
bers of the Professional Problems Committee at least 48 hours prior to the meeting.
1-10.1. The Professional Problems Committee in each school shall be composed of not less than three nor more than five members.
The names of the members of the Professional Problems Committee shall be submitted in writing to the school principal by the school delegate within five school days after their election to the committee. Any change of membership on the Professional Problems Committee shall be submitted in writing to the school principal by the school delegate.
1-10.2. If the members of the Professional Problems Committee and the principal agree, the Professional Problems Committee and the principal shall mutually develop a procedure for reporting the proceedings of the meeting between the Professional Problems Committee and the principal to the entire faculty.
1-11. The principal and the chairperson of the Professional Problems Committee shall exchange available and pertinent information concerning the operation of the school when such information is necessary for the understanding and resolution of professional problems under discussion by the principal and the Professional Problems Committee.
1-11.1. Implementation at the local school of any UNION-BOARD program will be preceded by discussion and planning between the Professional Problems Committee and the principal.
1-11.2. Implementation of any new instructional program at the local school level will be discussed and reviewed by the principal and those teachers and other staff members who will be involved in effecting said program.
1-11.3. No later than September 20, 1979, each school delegate shall secure from the principal a copy of the most recent guidelines for Special Education published by the Board of Education. Said guidelines shall remain the property of the school in order to be made available for any newly elected school delegate. If said guidelines are revised, a copy of the
8
revised guidelines will be substituted within twenty school days after the publication of the new guidelines.
1-11.4. School delegates shall be provided the necessary information so that they may compile an up-to-date staff list. Said staff list shall be restricted to members of the bargaining unit assigned to that school.
1-12. Upon notification to the school principal, or in the principal's absence to the acting administrator, the BOARD shall permit the President of the UNION or the President's designated representative to visit the schools for any purpose relating to the terms and conditions of this Agreement provided that such visitation does not interfere with normal teaching duties of either the teachers interviewed or the UNION delegate. If conferences with teachers or other bargaining unit members are necessary, they shall be scheduled so as not to interfere with the instructional program. The UNION representative shall report to the school office immediately upon arrival and sign the official register. If conferences with teachers or other bargaining unit members are necessary, they shall be scheduled so as not to interfere with the instructional program.
1-13. Whenever teachers or other bargaining unit members are mutually scheduled by the parties to participate during working hours in conferences, meetings, or negotiations respecting the collective bargaining Agreement, they shall suffer no loss in pay.
1-14. Regularly appointed teachers who are elected or appointed to full-time positions with the Chicago Teachers Union, Illinois Federation of Teachers, or American Federation of Teachers shall be granted leaves of absence without pay for the purpose of accepting those positions. Such leaves shall be granted upon appropriate application by the UNION but no more than 14 shall be granted for any one school year. Those granted such leaves of absence shall retain all other benefits as if they were in regular service. They shall continue to accrue seniority for salary increments and all other purposes where seniority is a factor, and the absence shall not be construed as a break in service for any purpose.
Regularly appointed teachers on such leaves of absence
9
shall be permitted to make their own and the BOARD'S regular contribution to all plans requiring such contribution. They shall also be permitted to pay the contributions required or permitted by law to be made by the employee and the BOARD to the Public School Teachers Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago to insure that full credit for retirement purposes is granted for the time spent on such leaves of absence.
A regularly appointed teacher elected to an elective office in the Chicago Teachers Union, the Illinois Federation of Teachers, or the American Federation of Teachers shall be returned to his or her original position at the conclusion of said term of office, but a teacher elected to a subsequent term or terms shall be returned to an equivalent position upon return to the school system and shall have priority on the transfer list of the school from which the leave was granted.
A regularly appointed teacher appointed to such position who returns to the school system within one school year or at the beginning of the next semester after the expiration of one year after the leave begins shall be returned to his or her original position; but if the return to the system occurs thereafter, the teacher shall be returned to an equivalent position and shall have priority on the transfer list of the school from which the leave was granted.
Effective October 15, 1977, two additional regularly appointed teachers elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Chicago Teachers Union, Illinois Federation of Teachers, or American Federation of Teachers shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the purpose of accepting this position upon appropriate application by the UNION.
Effective November 1, 1979, two additional regularly appointed teachers or certified career service employees elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Chicago Teachers Union, Illinois Federation of Teachers, or American Federation of Teachers shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the purpose of accepting this position upon appropriate application by the UNION.
Effective November 1, 1981, one additional regularly appointed teacher or certified career service employee elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Chicago Teachers Union, Illinois Federation of Teachers, or American Federation of Teachers shall be granted a leave of absence with
10
out pay for the purpose of accepting this position upon appropriate application by the UNION.
Effective September 1, 1984, one additional regularly appointed teacher or certified career service employee elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Chicago Teachers Union, Illinois Federation of Teachers, American Federation of Teachers, or Chicago Federation of Labor - Industrial Union Council, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the purpose of accepting this position upon appropriate application by the UNION.
Effective September 1, 1985, one additional regularly appointed teacher or certified career service employee elected or appointed to a full-time position with the Chicago Teachers Union, Illinois Federation of Teachers or American Federation of Teachers, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the purpose of accepting this position upon appropriate application by the UNION.
Effective September 1, 1987, one additional regularly appointed teacher or certified career service employee, elected or appointed to a full time position with the Chicago Teachers Union, the Illinois Federation of Teachers, or American Federation of Teachers shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for the purpose of accepting this position upon appropriate application by the UNION.
The foregoing provisions shall be applicable to such teachers with the exception that if said teacher returns to the school system said teacher shall be assigned to an equivalent position in the area of his or her certification in accordance with the faculty integration plan, but shall not have the right to return to the teacher's original school.
A regularly certified career service employee elected or appointed to an office in the Chicago Teachers Union, Illinois Federation of Teachers, American Federation of Teachers, or the Chicago Federation of Labor - Industrial Union Council, shall be returned to an equivalent position upon return to the school system after ninety calendar days' notice has been given to the Board of Education. Such persons shall have priority to transfer to the position from which the leave was granted.
1-15. The UNION shall be provided adequate bulletin board
11
space in a place readily accessible to and normally frequented by all teachers and other bargaining unit members in each school for the posting of official notices and other official materials relating to UNION activities. The bulletin board space allocated shall be identified with the name of the UNION and the name of the school delegate. The school delegate or the delegate's designee shall have the responsibility for posting materials on the bulletin board.
1-15.1. The names of the members of the Professional Problems Committee shall be posted on the UNION bulletin board.
1-16. The Union shall have the right to place material in the mailboxes of teachers and other bargaining unit members. Placement will be made by the school delegate or the delegate's designee. Material placed in mailboxes shall be restricted to official material supplied by the UNION or material signed by the school delegate.
1-16 1. An information copy of all materials placed in mailboxes of teachers by the Chicago Teachers Union shall be placed in the principal's mailbox.
1-17. On 24 hours' notice to the principal of the school, the UNION shall have the right to schedule meetings in the building before or after regular duty hours and during lunch time of teachers or other bargaining unit members involved in matters concerning their employment, the provisions of this Agreement, and for the conduct of UNION business, provided said meeting does not interfere with an in-service or general faculty meeting previously scheduled and posted prior to the 24-hour notification given to the principal by the UNION. Where such meetings are held outside of the operating hours of that school, the UNION shall pay the additional costs.
1-17.1. The names of all school delegates of the UNION shall be furnished to the principal within ten school days after the election. Any change in school delegate shall be reported to the principal in writing as soon as possible after the election.
The UNION shall furnish at the beginning of each school year a current copy of the House of Delegates Directory to
12
the Office of Labor Relations.
1-17.2. Effective September 7, 1987, the UNION shall supply, in writing, at the beginning of each school year to the BOARD, through the Office of Labor Relations, a complete list of elected officers and field representatives.
1-18. The terms of this Agreement shall not apply where inconsistent with constitutional, statutory, or other legal provisions. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be contrary to law by the Supreme Court of the United States, or by any court of competent jurisdiction from whose judgment or decree no appeal has been taken within the time provided for doing so, such provision shall be modified forthwith by the parties hereto to the extent necessary to conform thereto. In such cases, all other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in effect.
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to deny to any teacher or other bargaining unit member or to the BOARD the right to resort to legal proceedings. No decision on or adjustment of a grievance shall be contrary to any provision of this Agreement.
1-19. Where used in this Agreement —
School shall mean any work location or functional division or group.
Principal shall mean the administrator of any work location or functional division or group.
School delegate shall mean the agent of the UNION in any work location or functional division or group.
The singular shall include the plural.
ARTICLE 2	— FAIR PRACTICES
2-1. In accordance with the laws of the United States and State of Illinois and the established policies and practices of the BOARD and the UNION, there shall be no discrimination against any teacher or other bargaining unit member on the basis of race, creed, color, age, sex, national origin, marital status, sexual orientation or membership or participation in, or association with the activities of, the UNION. The BOARD and the UNION shall work affirmatively to the end that each
13
pupil may have the educational advantage of an integrated school.
2-2. There shall be no discrimination by the BOARD against any teacher or other bargaining unit member on account of any disability unrelated to the individual's ability to perform the essential functions of his or her job. If reasonable accommodation under the American with Disabilities Act conflicts with any provision of this Agreement, a waiver shall be obtained under the provisions of Appendix C in order to make said accommodation. Any such waiver shall be effective for the duration of the disability, provided that reasonable accommodation remains necessary. No such waiver shall be sought, however, without the written consent of the employee seeking the accommodation.
ARTICLE 3	— GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Definition: A grievance is a complaint involving a work situation or a complaint that there has been a deviation from, misinterpretation of, or misapplication of a practice or policy; or a complaint that there has been a violation, misinterpretation, or misapplication of any provisions of this Agreement.
3-1. Adjustment of Grievances — School Level.
3-1.1. A sincere attempt should be made to resolve any grievances by oral interview between the complainant or the school delegate and the principal before differences become formalized as grievances.
3-1.2. Any complainant or the UNION may present a grievance in writing to the principal within 45 school days after the occurrence of the event giving rise to the alleged violation, or within 45 school days from the time the complainant or the UNION should reasonably have become aware of the occurrence of the event giving rise to the alleged violation, whichever is later, with the further proviso, however, that this time limitation shall not apply to any salary grievance. If two or more complaints have the same grievance, a joint grievance may be presented and processed as a single grievance.
A grievance in writing must bear the signature of the com
14
plainant, or complainants, or the UNION school delegate, or the UNION president, specifying the complaint(s) and/or violation^) alleged, and a brief statement of fact sufficient to allow a response. A copy of the grievance shall be filed with the appropriate district superintendent.
3-1.3. Upon receipt of a grievance in writing, the principal shall confer within three school days with the complainant and others involved in the grievance. At this conference the facts shall be brought out, and an effort shall be made to adjust the matter to the satisfaction of all concerned.
3-1.4. The complainant may be heard personally and may be represented by the UNION school delegate or the UNION President or the President's designee.
3-1.5. The principal shall make a decision and communicate it and the bases for the decision in writing to the complainant, the school delegate or UNION designee, the district superintendent, and the General Superintendent (through the Office of Labor Relations), within three school days after the completion of the conference.
3-2. District Superintendent’s Review. Deleted effective September 1, 1989.
3-2.1. Procedures for Grievances under Article 28-2 (Maximum Class Size). Deleted effective September 1, 1989.
3-3. General Superintendent’s Review. Within 15 school days after receiving the decision of the principal, the complainant, through the UNION, may appeal to the General Superintendent of Schools through the Offices of Labor Relations and the Chief Educational Officer from the appeal decision. Copies of the original grievance, the appeal and any decision rendered shall be forwarded to the Offices of Labor Relations and the Chief Educational Officer with the request for review.
The General Superintendent or the General Superintendent's designated representative shall meet within 10 school days with the concerned parties who will be given two school day's notice of the time and place of the conference. The General Superintendent shall make a written decision and
15
communicate the same and the basis for the decision to the parties involved within 10 school days after completion of the conference.
3-4. Board of Education Review. Deleted effective September 1, 1989.
3-5. Arbitration. The parties agree to establish a permanent panel of arbitrators. This panel is attached as Appendix D. Arbitrators may be removed from the permanent panel by written notice from one party to the other requesting removal. Cases pending before a removed arbitrator shall not be affected. The parties shall make every effort to agree upon a substitute arbitrator. In no event may the arbitration panel be fewer than seven arbitrators.
Within 15 school days after receiving the decision of the General Superintendent, pursuant to Articles 3-3 and 3-6 of this Agreement, the UNION only may file a demand for arbitration with the BOARD. Within 15 school days thereafter, the parties will mutually agree to an arbitrator for that grievance, selecting from the permanent panel. If the parties cannot mutually agree upon an arbitrator, then the arbitrator shall be selected through a striking process with the UNION striking first and then the BOARD until one arbitrator remains. Within five school days of selection of an arbitrator, the parties will contact the arbitrator directly and notify the arbitrator of his or her appointment, request available hearing dates, and mutually agree to a hearing date. At least seven calendar days before the hearing, the arbitrator shall mail notice of the date, time and place of the hearing to the BOARD and UNION. The arbitrator for good cause shown may postpone the hearing or extend any period of time upon request of a party or upon his or her own initiative and shall postpone the hearing or extend any period of time upon mutual agreement of the parties. Within 20 days after completion of the hearing, the arbitrator shall render a decision and opinion. The decision shall be final and binding on the parties. The cost of the arbitrator shall be equally shared by the parties.
3-5.1. It is agreed and understood that if any hearing, under the above procedures of Article 3-5, are not completed within one school day, neither party shall request an adjournment for a period of more than 15 school days.
16
3-5.2. Whenever the UNION requests the issuance of subpoenas for the appearance of witnesses at an arbitration hearing, the UNION shall immediately forward copies of such requests to the Office of Labor Relations. The UNION shall agree to pay the full cost of substitute service for the teacher or other bargaining unit member required to appear as a witness at said arbitration hearing.
3-6. Procedures for Certain Grievances Which Are Not Under Jurisdiction of a Principal. Any grievance based upon the action of authority higher than the principal shall be initiated directly with the Office of Labor Relations whose decision thereon shall be rendered within 15 school days. The grievance must specify the complaint(s) and/or violation(s) alleged, a brief statement of facts sufficient to allow a response, and any documentation which may expedite the resolution of the grievance. Within 15 school days after receiving the decision of the Office of Labor Relations, the complainant may then appeal the decision of said office to the General Superintendent, by requesting, in writing, a meeting with the Office of Labor Relations, acting as representative of the General Superintendent. Copies of the grievance and the decision shall accompany the appeal forwarded to the Office of Labor Relations.
The General Superintendent or the General Superintendent's designated representative shall meet within 10 school days with the concerned parties who will be given two school days notice of the time and place of the conference. The General Superintendent shall make a written decision and communicate the same to the parties involved within 10 school days after completion of the conference. Decisions of the General Superintendent may be appealed to arbitration under Article 3-5.
3-7. General Provisions.
3-7.1. The UNION may initiate or appeal a grievance at any step of this procedure. All decisions below the level of the BOARD shall be subject to review and reconsideration by the General Superintendent. Such review shall be initiated by the General Superintendent or the General Superintendent's designee within five school days from the time the decision is rendered, and shall follow the procedure specified in paragraph 3-3.
17
3-7.2. It is understood between the parties that any teacher or other bargaining unit member may belong to any employee organization and that any such person who is not a member of the UNION or has not expressed a desire to be represented by it shall have the right to present grievances and appeals on his or her own behalf as an individual through the General Superintendent's Review (Article 3-3) and submit suggestions to the BOARD as an individual.
3-7.3. Appearance and Representation. Conferences held under this grievance procedure shall be scheduled at a time and place which will afford a fair and reasonable opportunity for all persons entitled to be present to attend, including witnesses. The UNION shall have the right to be present at each stage of the grievance procedure and to present its views and introduce evidence. Every effort shall be made to hold such conferences during the school day and when held during the school day all participants shall be entitled to attend without loss of pay.
If the grievant fails to appear at a scheduled grievance conference, and fails to appear at another grievance conference scheduled at the grievant's or UNION'S request, the grievance shall be deemed to have been resolved; provided, however, that the grievant was given notification of said conference in accordance with the appropriate step of the grievance procedure. It is agreed and understood that the provisions of Article 3-7.4 would be applicable in the scheduling of said conferences.
3-7.4. Time Limits. Failure on the part of the administrator at any step of this procedure to communicate a decision concerning a grievance within the specified time shall permit it to be advanced to the next higher step. Additional time at a specified step of this procedure may be granted by mutual agreement between the parties.
3-7.5. Investigation of Grievances. The school UNION delegate or UNION designee shall be allowed reasonable time by the principal during the school day to investigate grievances. In the event clarification is necessary as to what constitutes reasonable time, the assistant superintendent for labor relations, after consultation with the UNION shall make the final determination. The President of the UNION or the President's designee shall be accorded all the rights of the
18
UNION delegate in any school. Time allowed shall be confined to investigating grievances that have been brought to the principal's attention.
3-8. Grievance mediation.
3-8.1. The parties agree to establish a permanent panel of mediators. This panel is attached as Appendix E. Mediators may be removed from the panel by written notice from one party to the other requesting removal. Cases pending before a removed mediator shall not be affected. The parties shall make every effort to agree upon a substitute mediator. In no event may the mediation panel be fewer than three mediators.
3-8.2. The UNION, simultaneously with a demand for arbitration pursuant to the terms of Article 3-5 of this Agreement, may submit a written request for mediation to the BOARD. The grievance will proceed to mediation unless the BOARD notifies the UNION, in writing, within 10 school days that it does not agree to submit the grievance to mediation. Further, within 10 school days of receiving the UNION'S demand for arbitration of a particular grievance, the BOARD may request, in writing, that the grievance be submitted to mediation; any such grievance will proceed to mediation unless the UNION notifies the BOARD, in writing, within 10 school days that it does not agree to submit the grievance to mediation. Grievances not submitted to mediation will proceed to arbitration in accord with Article 3-5.
Grievances submitted to mediation shall be submitted to a five person mediation panel consisting of: (a) a mediator from the panel attached as Appendix E (the mediators shall rotate monthly); and (b) two permanent representatives designated by each party. One of the BOARD'S representatives shall be a current or former principal.
Within five school days of selection of a mediator, the parties will contact the mediator direct and notify the mediator of his or her appointment, request available mediation dates, and mutually agree to a mediation hearing. At least seven calendar days before the mediation session, the mediator shall mail notice of the date, time, and place of the session to the BOARD and the UNION. The mediator for good cause shown may postpone the mediation session or extend any period of time upon request of a party or upon his or her own
19
initiative and shall postpone the session or extend any period of time upon mutual agreement of the parties. Prior to the mediation session, the BOARD and UNION will submit to the mediator all relevant grievance documents for the grievance or grievances to be addressed at that session. Mediation sessions will be conducted monthly.
If appropriate, the mediation panel may make recommendations for resolution to the General Superintent of Schools and President of the UNION. If the General Superintendent and President mutually agree to a resolution for a specific grievance, that agreement will be reduced to writing, executed by the parties and implemented. All resolutions shall be non-precedential and not cited in any arbitration case or labor board, administrative or judicial proceeding. In the even of a resolution, the grievance will be withdrawn, with prejudice.
If the parties cannot mutually agree to a resolution, they may mutually agree to table and further mediate the grievance at a subsequent mediation session. Absent a resolution or an agreement to table the grievance, the grievance will proceed to arbitration. Any grievance agreed to be submitted to mediation and not considered by the mediation panel within 60 school days after the request for mediation shall be deemed withdrawn and will be submitted to arbitration.
ARTICLE 4	— ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
4-1. The principal shall receive pertinent information from the kindergarten teacher and shall have the counsel of the elementary school counselor in placement of pupils completing kindergarten.
4-2. If a school is organized on a departmental basis, said departmental classes shall begin on or before the second Wednesday following the opening of the school year unless precluded by the unavailability of teachers with the required subject skills.
4-3. At the beginning of each semester, the kindergarten teacher and the early childhood education teacher shall be scheduled a sufficient amount of nonteaching time, to the extent that use of teacher assistants employed at the school will permit, to complete cumulative record cards, registration cards, emergency information cards, and transfer records for
20
kindergarten and early childhood education students.
4-4. The principal or the principal's designee shall advise the faculty of the total amount of funds available to the school under Budget Classification 210-000-7998-5320 for the purchase of supplies and materials. All teachers shall have access to and shall review the current Education Supplies Catalog. On or before a specific date to be established at each school, each teacher may submit, in writing, to the principal a suggested list of supplies for the teacher's pupils from the current Education Supplies Catalog. It is understood that supply allocations are limited to the available funds.
Funds for items which are ordered and marked “out-of-stock” and which remain unexpended at the end of the school year shall be added to the local school's regular supply appropriation for the following year.
4-5. Books and supplies which have been processed shall be available for distribution on the first day of school to teachers who have need for them.
4-6. The regular school day for elementary school teachers shall not exceed six hours and forty-five minutes with a continuous duty-free lunch period of 45 minutes. Where the duty-free lunch period presents an administrative problem, a solution shall be worked out by the BOARD and the UNION. The day normally shall begin at 8:30 a.m. and end at 3:15 p.m. However, the principal (or Chief Executive Officer, if appropriate) may change the beginning and ending times provided that he or she receives the affirmative concurrence of the majority of classroom teachers voting.
This provision shall not be interpreted as a waiver or modification of any rights that the BOARD has under the 1995 Amendatory Act. The BOARD affirms that this provision will be adopted as BOARD policy until at least June 30, 2003.
4-7. In implementation of present policy, reassigned status of a kindergarten teacher shall be determined by the length of continuous service in the Chicago public schools on a regular teaching certificate.
4-8. Additional teachers shall be provided as necessary, in
21
elementary schools to give elementary teachers two preparation periods per week, and, effective June 3, 1974, three preparation periods per week.
Teachers so relieved shall use this time for self-directed professional activities which shall include conferences and the preparation of class work.
If an additional music or art teacher is assigned to an elementary school, the principal and the Professional Problems Committee shall meet to determine the availability of said teacher to provide additional self-directed duty-free preparation time for classroom teachers. Library and physical education teachers shall be considered as classroom teachers in the scheduling of said additional duty-free preparation time.
4-9. In all elementary schools, including those on closed campus programs, duty-free preparation time shall be provided for elementary teachers through scheduling the period from 8:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. on three days each week for this purpose, said days to be designated by the principal.
Teachers so relieved shall use this time for self-directed professional activities which shall include conferences and the preparation of class work. The teacher shall be ready to teach or perform other assigned duties at 9:00 a.m.
The entry time for students shall be set for 9:00 a.m., except when in the considered judgment of the principal inclement weather presents a threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the students.
Teachers assigned to supervisory duty during the 8:30 - 9:00 a.m. conference and preparation period shall be provided with an equal amount of time for preparation periods at another time.
4-10. Professional preparation periods shall be scheduled through Wednesday of the last week of the school year.
4-11. Upon reasonable notification to the principal in the case of late arrival or early departure to or from school for good cause in an emergency situation only, a teacher or other bargaining unit member assigned to a school present more than one-fourth and less than three-fourths of the working day is considered as having worked one-half day, and a teacher or other bargaining unit member assigned to a
22
school present three-fourths or more of the regular working day is considered as having worked a full day.
4-12. In accordance with current policy, library and physical education programs in all elementary schools where certificated physical education teachers or teacher-librarians have been assigned shall begin no later than Wednesday of the first week of the school year.
4-13. It is agreed that prior to submission by the school principal to the community of the restructured school day (closed campus) in the elementary schools, a secret ballot vote of all classroom teachers will be conducted no more than once each school year or at the normal reorganization cycle. The procedures for conducting such a vote shall be mutually agreed upon between the principal and the school delegate.
Sixty-seven percent of the classroom teachers voting shall approve the adoption of the restructured school day at each school. Any teacher who receives supply money under the provisions of Article 44-32 of this Agreement shall be eligible to vote. It is agreed and understood that any classroom teacher already on the restructured school day program shall not be eligible to vote.
The school hours of teachers in the restructured school day program shall be from 8:30 a.m. to 3:15 p.m. with a continuous duty-free lunch period of 45 minutes beginning at 2:30 p.m. at which time teachers may sign out for the day.
In those schools where a recess period for the pupils is not scheduled in the forenoon, a procedure shall be developed at each school to relieve the teacher for a period of 10 minutes. The procedure for supervising the pupils shall be developed at the local school level.
In those schools where a recess period for the pupils is not scheduled in the afternoon, a procedure shall be developed at each school to relieve the teacher for a period of 10 minutes. The procedure for supervising the pupils shall be developed at the local school level.
For schools that have adopted the restructured school day program, a review committee shall be formed at the local school level to review and evaluate the program prior to the close of each school year. This review committee shall be
23
made up of the principal, school delegate, three teachers (one primary, one intermediate, and one upper grade teacher where such levels exist) and three parent representatives from the local school council. Said teachers are to be elected by the appropriate classroom teachers in a secret ballot election. This review committee shall determine whether the closed campus shall continue for the subsequent school year.
4-13.1. Teachers assigned to schools on the restructured school day (closed campus) may elect to remain in the main building during their duty-free lunch period from 2:30 p.m. to 3:15 p.m.
4-14. A duty schedule for all teachers, teacher assistants, school assistants, instructor assistants and interpreter assistants shall be posted in each elementary school in September and February of each school year.
4-15. In order to insure that kindergarten pupils who attend the afternoon session receive the full instructional time allocation on days when one-half day in-service meetings are scheduled, other available staff, in addition to the kindergarten teacher, already at each local school and any available space shall be utilized by the principal to meet the instructional needs of said pupils.
4-16. A half-time kindergarten teacher who spends the morning at one building and the afternoon at another building shall be given a daily uninterrupted duty-free lunch period of 45 minutes exclusive of travel time.
4-17. Textbook committees for language arts, mathematics, social studies, and science composed of teachers appointed by the principal, shall be established in each elementary school. On or before a specific date to be established by the principal of each elementary school, said textbook committees shall present written recommendations to the principal concerning the purchase of textbooks and instructional materials in each subject.
4-18. In those elementary schools in which a pupil recess period is not scheduled during the morning session, a procedure shall be developed at each school to relieve classroom
24
teachers for a period of 10 minutes. The procedure for supervising the pupils shall be developed at the local school level.
In those elementary schools in which a pupil recess period is not scheduled during the afternoon session, a procedure shall be developed at each school to relieve classroom teachers for a period of 10 minutes. The procedure for supervising the pupils shall be developed at the local school level.
4-19. In order to prevent the unnecessary duplication of paper work, the BOARD shall design a computer program that will provide elementary schools with access to student information and the ability to print multiple copies of the information for use in student folders and records.
4-20. All teachers in the early childhood programs should have the same student matriculation dates for entrance and pre-screening procedures.
ARTICLE 5	— UPPER GRADE CENTER AND MIDDLE SCHOOL
5-1. Books and supplies which have been processed shall be available for distribution on the first day of school to teachers who have need for them.
5-2. In accordance with current policy, library and physical education programs in all upper grade centers and middle schools shall begin no later than Monday of the second-week following the opening of the school year unless certificated physical education teachers or teacher-librarians have not been assigned to the school.
5-3. It is agreed that prior to submission, by the school principals, to the community on the restructured school day (closed campus) in upper grade centers and middle schools, a secret ballot vote of all classroom teachers will be conducted no more than once each school year or at the normal reorganization cycle. The procedure for conducting such a vote shall be mutually agreed upon between the principal and the school delegate.
Sixty-seven percent of the classroom teachers voting shall approve the adoption of the restructured school day at each school. Any teacher who receives supply money un-
25
der the provisions of Article 44-32 of this Agreement shall be eligible to vote. It is agreed and understood that any classroom teacher already on the restructured school day program shall not be eligible to vote.
The school hours of teachers in the restructured school day program shall be from 8:30 a.m. to 3:15 p.m. with a continuous duty-free lunch period of 45 minutes beginning at 2:30 p.m. at which time teachers may sign out for the day.
In those schools where a recess period for the pupils is not scheduled in the forenoon, a procedure shall be developed at each school to relieve the teacher for a period of 10 minutes. The procedure for supervising the pupils shall be developed at the local school level.
In those schools where a recess period for the pupils is not scheduled in the afternoon, a procedure shall be developed at each school to relieve the teacher for a period of 10 minutes. The procedure for supervising the pupils shall be developed at the local school level.
For schools that have adopted the restructured school day program, a review committee shall be formed at the local school level to review and evaluate the program prior to the close of each school year. This review committee shall be made up of the principal, school delegate, three teachers and three representatives from the local school council. Said teachers are to be elected by the appropriate classroom teachers in a secret ballot election. This review committee shall determine whether the closed campus shall continue for the subsequent school year.
5-4. Professional preparation periods shall be scheduled through Wednesday of the last week of the school year.
5-5. Upon reasonable notification to the principal in the case of late arrival or early departure to or from school for good cause in any emergency situation only, a teacher or other bargaining unit member assigned to a school present more than one-fourth and less than three-fourths of the working day is considered as having worked one-half day, and a teacher or other bargaining unit member assigned to a school present three-fourths or more of the regular working day is considered as having worked a full day.
26
5-6. In accordance with current policy, the number of children attending an upper grade center and middle school library class during one class period shall not exceed the number of tables, chairs and/or other work areas available.
5-7. A duty schedule for all teachers, teacher assistants, school assistants, instructor assistants and interpreter assistants shall be posted in each middle school and upper grade center at least once each semester or at the regular reorganization time.
5-8. The regular school day shall not exceed six hours and forty-five minutes with a continuous duty-free lunch of 45 minutes, except that if the regular lunch period is shortened, the teachers' day shall be shortened an equal number of minutes. Where the duty-free lunch period presents an administrative problem, a solution shall be worked out by the BOARD and the UNION.
The day normally shall begin at 8:30 a.m. and end at 3:15 p.m. However, the principal (or Chief Executive Officer, if appropriate) may change the beginning and ending times provided he/she receives the affirmative concurrence of the majority of classroom teachers voting. This provision shall not be interpreted as a waiver or modification of any rights that the BOARD has under the 1995 Amendatory Act.
The BOARD affirms that this provision will be adopted as BOARD policy until at least June 30, 2003.
ARTICLE 6	— HIGH SCHOOL
6-1. The high school day may begin and end at different times from school to school as determined at the local school level following discussion between the principal and local school faculty, but shall not exceed 406 minutes in length for a high school teacher. The high school teacher is to be in his or her room with the class ready to teach at the time designated on the teacher's schedule. The regular school day shall consist of eight 45-minute periods, including 5 teaching periods, one 14-minute division period, and eight 4-minute passing periods. Any time increase in the division period shall be deducted from the regular class periods. High school teachers shall have a duty-free lunch period of 45 minutes, except that if the regular lunch period is shortened to less than 45 minutes, the teacher's school day shall be shortened
27
an equal number of minutes. Each teacher's schedule shall include five 45-minute duty free, self-directed preparation periods per week. Each teacher assigned a division shall have one 45-minute conference/preparation period per week. Each teacher's schedule shall include one 45-minute advisory period, one 45-minute advisory preparation period, one 45-minute staff development period, and one 45-minute teacher collaboration period.
As an alternative to a 45-minute schedule, the principal, with the affirmative concurrence of a majority of the UNION teacher members voting on that schedule, may choose an alternative schedule. The schedules of a 40-, 42-, or 50-minute school day, however, shall be limited to the following:
1.	40-minute schedule: The high school day may begin and end at different times from school to school as determined at the local school level following discussion between the principal and the local school faculty, but shall not exceed 406 minutes in length for a high school teacher. The high school teacher is to be in his or her room with the class ready to teach at the time designated on the teacher's schedule. The regular school day shall consist of nine 40-minute periods, including 5 teaching periods, one 10-minute division period and nine 4-minute passing periods. Any time increase in the division period shall be deducted from the regular class periods. High school teachers shall have a duty-free lunch period of 40 minutes, except that if the regular lunch period is shortened to less than 40 minutes, the teacher's school day shall be shortened an equal number of minutes. Each teacher's schedule shall include five 40-minute self-directed duty-free preparation periods per week. Each teacher assigned a division shall have five 40-minute conference/ preparation periods per week. Each teacher's schedule shall include one 40-minute advisory period, one 40-minute advisory preparation period, one 40-minute staff development period, one 40-minute collaboration period, and one 40-minute department/school meeting period.
2.	42-minute schedule: The high school day may begin and end at different times from school to school as determined at the local school level following discussion between the principal and the local school faculty, but shall not exceed 406 minutes in length for a high school teacher. The regular school day shall consist of eight 42-minute periods, including 5 teaching periods, one 9-minute division period
28
and nine 4-minute passing periods. Any time increase in the division period shall be deducted from the regular class periods. High school teachers shall have a duty-free lunch period of 42 minutes, except that if the regular lunch period is shortened to less than 42 minutes, the teacher's school day shall be shortened an equal number of minutes. Each teacher's schedule shall include five 42-minute self-directed duty-free preparation periods per week. Each teacher assigned a division shall have five 42-minute conference/preparation periods per week. Each teacher's schedule shall include one 25-minute advisory period, one 25-minute advisory preparation period, one 25-minute staff development period, one 25-minute collaboration period, and one 25-minute department/ school meeting period.
3.	50-minute schedule: The high school day may begin and end at different times from school to school as determined at the local school level following discussion between the principal and the local school faculty, but shall not exceed 406 minutes in length for a high school teacher. The high school teacher is to be in his or her room with the class ready to teach at the time designated on the teacher's schedule. The regular school day shall consist of seven 50-minute periods, including 5 teaching periods, one division period and seven 4-minute passing periods. Any time increase in the division period shall be deducted from the regular class periods. High school teachers shall have a duty-free lunch period of 50 minutes, except that if the regular lunch period is shortened to less than 50 minutes, the teacher's school day shall be shortened an equal number of minutes. Each teacher's schedule shall include four 50-minute self-directed duty-free preparation periods per week. Each teacher assigned a division shall have one conference/preparation period per week. The principal shall designate said weekly period. The period designated for the conference/preparation period shall be determined by the teacher based upon the needs of the division and the teacher shall notify the principal of his or her decision. If there is a change in the designated conference/preparation period, the teacher shall notify the principal by Friday of the week preceding the change.
Time for staff development, planning activities and teacher interaction with parents, following discussion between the Professional Problems Committee and principal, may be accumulated. Up to 90 minutes of such time may be utilized at
29
the beginning and end of the school day with one week's notice to the faculty. Any other use of the accumulated time must be agreed to by the Professional Problems Committee and the principal.
A 30-minute advisory period once a week paid at the teacher's regular rate of pay may be added to the 50-minute high school schedule by following the procedures for waivers outlined in Appendix C.
Nothing herein shall prevent high schools from amending their state Chapter 1 expenditures or from utilizing their state Chapter 1 funds to supplement the basic program.
The BOARD affirms that this provision will be adopted as BOARD policy until at least June 30, 2003.
6-2. The principal shall consult all department chairpersons in connection with programming the respective school departments.
Prior to March 1, each department chairperson shall submit written recommendations to the principal or the principal's designee concerning the programming of the department for the following school year.
6-3. There shall be consultation among student, teacher, and administrator in placing students in advanced placement classes.
6-4. Separate foreign language classes for native speakers shall be provided where enrollment makes this possible.
6-5. The term minor shall be eliminated in relation to Art 1 and one-half unit shall be credited for successful completion of the year's course.
6-6. New buildings shall include adequate facilities in all classrooms designated for the teaching of art including adequate lighting, sinks, and cabinet and storage space.
6-7. Whenever possible, mathematics classes shall be assigned to rooms with adequate chalkboard space and provisions for maps, charts, graphs, and other teaching aids.
6-8. The chorus room and instrumental rooms shall be
30
made available to the instructor during the preparation period whenever possible.
6-9. One period every six school weeks shall be allowed for departmental meetings during the school day provided that this does not necessitate the dismissal of pupils or cancellation of classes.
6-10. The teacher individually or through the department chairperson, shall request in writing approval of the principal prior to inviting a guest speaker to address the class one week prior to the date of the appearance, and written approval of the principal must be secured before the invitation is extended. Any disapproval by the principal shall be submitted in writing.
6-11. Professional journals and other publications shall be purchased through the high school library for use in each high school.
6-12. To the extent that funds can be made available, suitable equipment shall be provided for distributive education and office occupations classes.
6-13. Whenever funds can be made available, the BOARD shall institute an in-service training program for newspaper and year book sponsors.
6-14. Workshops for teachers assigned as teacher-coordinators shall be held during the school day.
6-15. As funds, staff, and space are available, a materials service center to provide commonly used films, tapes, records, filmstrips, maps, diagrams, and paperback books shall be provided in every high school.
6-16. Upon reasonable notification to the principal in the case of late arrival or early departure to or from school for good cause in an emergency situation only, a teacher or other bargaining unit member assigned to a school present more than one-fourth and less than three-fourths of the working day is considered as having worked one-half day, and a teacher or other bargaining unit member assigned to a school present three-fourths or more of the regular working
31
day is considered as having worked a full day.
6-17. High school science laboratory teachers on a 45-minute period day shall be programmed for a 25-period teaching week. They shall include six periods a week for duty-free, self-directed professional preparation and for preparation of experiments, equipment maintenance and inventory. Each science laboratory teacher's schedule shall include one 45-minute advisory period, one 45-minute advisory preparation period, one 45-minute staff development period, and one 45-minute teacher collaboration period.
High school science laboratory teachers on a 40-minute period day shall be programmed for a 28-period teaching week. They shall include seven periods a week for duty-free, selfdirected professional preparation and for preparation of experiments, equipment maintenance and inventory. Each science laboratory teacher's schedule shall include one 40-minute advisory period, one 40-minute advisory preparation period, one 40-minute staff development period, and one 40-minute teacher collaboration period.
High school science laboratory teachers on a 42-minute period day shall be programmed for a 28-period teaching week. They shall include seven periods a week for duty-free, selfdirected professional preparation and for preparation of experiments, equipment maintenance and inventory. Each science laboratory teacher's schedule shall include one 25-minute advisory period, one 25-minute advisory preparation period, one 25-minute staff development period, and one 25-minute teacher collaboration period.
High school science laboratory teachers on a 50-minute period day shall be programmed for a 25-period teaching week. They shall include five periods a week for duty-free, self-directed professional preparation and for preparation of experiments, equipment maintenance and inventory.
6-18. The principal or the principal's designee shall advise each subject area department of the total amount of funds available under Fund 210, subject program number, object 5320, as contained in the annual school budget, for the purchase of supplies and materials. All subject area teachers shall have access to and shall review the current Education Supplies Catalog.
32
On or before a specific date to be established at each high school, each subject area teacher may submit, in writing, to the principal or the principal's designee, a suggested list of supplies for his or her pupils from the current Education Supplies Catalog. It is understood that supply allocations are limited to the available funds.
Funds for items which are ordered and marked “out-ofstock” and which remain unexpended at the end of the school year shall be added to the local school's regular supply appropriation for the following year.
6-18.1. Funds allocated for the purchase of supplies in drafting classes shall be increased as follows:
$2.00 per student for 5x classes
3.00 per student for 10x classes
5.00 per student for 20x classes
6-18.2. The principal or the principal's designee shall advise the high school art teachers, within twenty school days after the budget is received in the school, of the total amount of funds available under Fund 210, Program 2245, Object 5320, as contained in the annual school budget for the purchase of supplies and materials. All high school art teachers shall have access to and shall review the current Education
Supplies Catalog.
On or before a specific date to be established by the principal at each high school, each art teacher shall submit, in writing, to the principal or the principal's designee a suggested list of supplies from the current Education Supplies Catalog. It is understood that supply allocations are limited to the funds available.
6-19. All instrumental music, band, or orchestra rooms in high school buildings over ten years old shall be surveyed for rehabilitation.
6-20. Each foreign language teacher shall submit written recommendations to the principal or the principal's designee relative to organization of classes, level and placement of students in language classes.
6-21. All division teachers shall review the records and programs of the pupils in their respective divisions to insure that
33
the prerequisites for advancement in mathematics classes have been met. Any deviations shall be immediately reported to the program office for correction.
6-22. Textbook committees for English, social studies, mathematics, science, business, and foreign languages, composed of teachers appointed by the principal, shall be established in each high school. On or before a specific date to be established by the principal of each high school, said textbook committees shall present written recommendations to the principal concerning the purchase of textbooks and instructional material in each subject.
6-23 A duty schedule for all teachers and teacher assistants shall be posted in each high school in September and February of each year.
6-24. Only those members of the high school staff who are properly trained may be required to conduct or directly assist in screening or searching students or others, whether by mechanical, electrical, or other means, on a daily or random basis.
ARTICLE 7 — ELEMENTARY SCHOOL COUNSELORS
7-1. A full-time elementary school counselor who is also the assistant principal and who is serving in a school where the assistant principal's position becomes a “freed” position shall have his or her application for the assistant principal's position considered in accordance with present procedures.
If the dual role is that of elementary school counselor-librarian, or elementary school counselor-kindergarten teacher, or elementary school counselor-physical education teacher and the school enrollment warrants a full-time elementary school counselor, the teacher shall have the right to move to the full-time elementary school counselor position.
7-2. In a school with a half-time elementary school counselor, the elementary school counselor may serve in the dual role of elementary school counselor-librarian, elementary school counselor-physical education teacher, or elementary school counselor-kindergarten teacher provided the counselor meets the requirements for the position.
34
7-3. Wherever possible, no more than 40 students shall be tested at any one time.
7-4. Elementary school counselors shall have telephones available for their use.
7-5. A professional orientation meeting for elementary school counselors shall be held once each year, during the regular school day. The BOARD shall also conduct one annual staff development workshop for elementary school counselors to review the duties and responsibilities of elementary school counselors.
7-6. Present acting elementary school counselors shall complete the elementary school counselor requirements no later than September 6, 1976.
Effective January 1, 1974 and thereafter, teachers serving as acting elementary school counselors must complete the requirements no later than two years from the date of their acting assignment.
If at the end of the applicable periods set down above, an acting elementary school counselor has not met all elementary school counselor requirements, a fully qualified elementary school counselor shall be nominated by the principal for appointment to said elementary school counselor position.
7-7. The organization of a tutoring program in reading shall continue to be one of the responsibilities of the elementary school counselor.
7-8. Once annually, the BOARD agrees to supply the UNION with a list of true elementary school counselor vacancies to be published in the Chicago Union Teacher.
ARTICLE 8	— ASSISTANT PRINCIPALS
8-1. High school assistant principals and educational personnel responsible for programming, to the extent permitted by the budget for this purpose, shall be employed during the summer at 100 percent of their summer school salary rate to work on the programming of students and teachers for their classes for the following year.
35
8-2. Notice of true assistant principalship vacancies occurring during the school year shall be posted in all school offices at least 10 days, and where practical, 20 days, prior to the closing date for application.
8-3. In those elementary schools where the assistant principal is a classroom teaching assistant principal, a substitute shall be provided for the assistant principal's classroom to permit the assistant principal to assume the administrative duties of the school when the principal is absent due to illness or for personal business under the provisions of Board Rule 4-35.
ARTICLE 9	— CAREER SERVICE PERSONNEL
9-1. Truant Officers.
9-1.1. Initial assignments of truant officers and senior truant officers shall be made from eligibility lists provided by the BOARD.
Persons employed as substitutes shall be those who have passed an appropriate career service examination.
9-1.2. Truant officers shall work from 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with one hour for lunch with such variations, not to exceed the total number of working hours, to meet local circumstances as are agreed upon by the truant officer and the principal.
9-1.3. Each school shall provide a desk, a chair, and space for the wraps of the truant officer. Telephone service shall be available when necessary for follow-up calls.
9-1.4. The BOARD and the UNION recognize the value of professional orientation workshops and in-service meetings. One city-wide in-service meeting per school year shall be scheduled for truant officers on record-staff development day.
9-1.5. Where possible, a truant officer on temporary assignment shall have the truant officer's regular assignment covered by a substitute truant officer.
9-1.6. Truant officers required to appear in court shall have the services in court of an attorney provided by the BOARD.
36
9-1.7. Truant officers shall not be responsible for the transfer of school records.
9-1.8. In the physical transfer of children to special schools, the truant officer shall be relieved of custody of the child without undue delay.
9-1.9. Truant officers may be employed in social centers provided that they have the necessary qualifications for the positions they seek.
9-1.10. All other things being equal, seniority will be considered in the selection of senior truant officers seeking transfer to an announced vacancy.
For this purpose, seniority shall be determined from the date of appointment to the grade of senior truant officer. In the event two or more applicants meet all requirements and have equal seniority, the selection shall be made by the director of the Bureau of School Attendance.
9-1.11. When special programs are operated beyond the regular school year, in order to provide the continuity of service, the truant officer regularly assigned to said program shall be retained for summer service. Such service shall be considered as summer employment. If the truant officer regularly assigned to said program waives this opportunity, summer assignments shall be made by the Associate Superintendent of Special Education and Pupil Support Services, in consultation with the principal.
Nothing herein shall be construed to authorize additional days of service for these programs in excess of service necessary.
9-2. Library Assistants.
9-2.1. Library assistants shall receive work orders only from the principal or the head teacher-librarian.
9-2.2. Library assistants, except in an emergency, shall perform work related only to the school library.
9-2.3. Library assistants shall not be responsible for giving formalized instruction to classes of students.
37
9-2.4. All library assistants shall attend audio-visual workshops, conducted by the BOARD for the purpose of upgrading their skills. Each library assistant shall attend a minimum of one such workshop annually.
9-3. School Clerks.
9-3.1. Prior to January 30, 1984, the BOARD shall review the current school clerk staffing to allow modification of staffing of school clerks at any work location where such a need is determined by the BOARD.
9-3.2. The Bureau of Career Service Personnel shall in December and June make available a list of all school clerk vacancies which shall include those school clerk positions filled by a temporary appointment. The list shall be posted in the school clerks' section of the BOARD and a copy shall be sent to the UNION.
9-3.3. The BOARD will allocate $150,000 for additional substitute school clerks who will be assigned to perform the duties of absent school clerks in those schools with less than two clerks beginning with the second day of absence, and in all other schools, beginning with the fourth day of absence.
9-3.4. Clerks authorized by BOARD action to work on student orientation and articulation days in the week preceding the first employee work day of a new school year shall be paid at the clerk's regular rate of salary.
9-3.5. Effective December 1, 1975, in every school where there is no more than one school clerk assigned, that school clerk shall be a School Clerk I. Effective January 1, 1978, in every school where there are two or more school clerks assigned, there shall be at least one School Clerk I.
The BOARD shall not employ temporary school clerks so long as there are certified school clerks awaiting appointment from said eligibility lists.
9-3.6. The BOARD and the UNION recognize the value of professional orientation workshops and in-service meetings. Two workshops per year shall be scheduled in order to provide school clerks with new techniques required to fill their job responsibilities and to familiarize school clerks with new
38
technology utilized by the BOARD.
9-3.7. Effective September 3, 1984, any certified School Clerk Assistant assigned in a School Clerk I appropriation for a period of twenty (20) consecutive school days shall be paid at the appropriate step of the School Clerk I salary schedule, effective on the twenty-first consecutive school day.
It is agreed and understood that upon the assignment or transfer of a certified School Clerk I to said position, the certified School Clerk Assistant shall revert to the former pay status as a School Clerk Assistant.
9-3.8. Whenever the services of a school clerk are no longer required in a particular school, only the school clerk with the least seniority shall have the right to transfer directly from an overstaffed school or discontinued program to any vacancy in the same title for which the clerk is eligible except that said school clerk shall not displace a clerk who is next for the position on the transfer list who has greater seniority in the school system. (Service prior to resignation is not considered.) Said school clerk may apply immediately for transfer to the former school where that school clerk's name precedes those of all other applicants on the transfer list. If a vacancy occurs at the former school, the applicable provisions of Article 9-3.1 of this Agreement shall apply. If the school clerk transferred is not the one with the least seniority, reserve rights do not apply.
Said school clerk's name is retained on other transfer lists to schools of the clerk's own choosing.
9-3.9. School clerks shall be provided necessary training in the implementation of any new programs or responsibilities that are introduced into the schools and performed by the school clerk. When such training is provided, the BOARD shall determine the nature, extent, location, and duration of the training.
9-3.10. Any school clerk position established in summer programs shall be filled by certified school clerks.
9-3.11. School clerks will be moved from salary grade 7 to salary grade 8 effective July 1, 1999 and from grade 8 to grade 9 effective July 1,2000.
39
9-4. Vision Screening and Audiometric Technicians.
9-4.1. Only qualified vision screening and audiometric technicians appointed from the career service list and temporary vision screening and audiometric technicians shall administer vision and hearing tests.
9-4.2. When schedules are assigned, ability and qualifications being equal, technicians shall be given preference based on seniority.
9-4.3. Two city-wide or district cluster meetings shall be held on orientation day and record-staff development day for vision screening and audiometric technicians in order to review new procedures and other related matters.
9-4.4. Travel between schools required by the BOARD shall be conducted within the established seven-hour duty day.
9-4.5. Vision screening and audiometric technicians shall be informed, in writing, of any procedural changes and recording procedures. Said vision screening and audiometric technicians shall implement and comply with said changes.
9-4.6. Any change in the date for submission of time sheets and monthly travel reimbursement applications shall be issued in writing to vision screening and audiometric technicians. All vision screening and audiometric technicians shall implement and comply with said procedures.
9-4.7. Vision screening and audiometric technicians, regardless of the program they are staffed into, shall conform with the screening guidelines outlined by the State of Illinois, Department of Public Health, and the duties of the Chicago Board of Education.
9-4.8. As determined by the Associate Superintendent for Special Education and Pupil Support Services, vision screening and audiometric technicians shall be provided with replacement equipment to the extent possible and printed forms when necessary.
9-4.9. Current state certification for vision screening and
40
audiometric technicians shall be kept on file by the hearing and vision administrator.
9-5. Teacher Assistants.
9-5.1. The Bureau of Career Service Personnel shall post a list of all true teacher assistant vacancies on or before February 15, of each year, and a copy sent to the UNION.
9-5.2. Whenever the services of a teacher assistant are no longer required in a particular school, a provisional teacher assistant shall be displaced at that school prior to the displacement of any certified teacher assistant. The certified teacher assistant with the least seniority shall have the right to transfer directly from an overstaffed school or discontinued program to any vacancy in the same title for which the teacher assistant is eligible except that said teacher assistant shall not displace a teacher assistant who is next for the position on the transfer list who has greater seniority (service prior to a resignation is not considered). Said teacher assistant may apply immediately for transfer to the former school where the teacher assistant's name precedes those of all other applicants on the transfer list. If a vacancy occurs at the former school, the applicable provisions of Article 9-6.11 of this Agreement shall apply.
9-5.3. If social adjustment schools or industrial skill centers are operated beyond the regular 10 school months of the regular school year, and if teacher assistants are to be employed in said summer program, teacher assistants regularly assigned to said schools shall be given preference for summer service. Such service shall be considered as summer employment.
9-5.4. In schools where there are two or more teacher assistants and where outside recess is scheduled, and where the principal determines that all teacher assistants are not needed for recess duty, the recess duties of the teacher assistants shall be rotated.
9-5.5. The BOARD shall employ and maintain 900 teacher assistants in elementary schools and 900 teacher assistants in the high schools. The General Superintendent shall consult and advise the President of the UNION monthly on status and progress.
41
Teacher assistants employed in the elementary schools, high schools and vocational guidance centers shall be employed to relieve teachers of non-professional duties and clerical chores in the schools.
9-5.6. Representation of government-funded teacher assistants by the UNION shall be subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Government-funded assistants to be represented will be those employed by the BOARD in federal and state-funded programs, excluding Model Cities programs.
(b)	Such assistants as are eligible for representation must express their desires in a secret ballot representation election to be paid for by the UNION.
(c)	It is understood and agreed by the parties that no provision of this Agreement or any guidelines concerning the employment of teacher assistants shall apply where inconsistent with or in conflict with guidelines established by the BOARD and/or the federal or state agency for any given government-funded program.
9-6. General Provisions.
9-6.1. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the provisions of this Article shall govern the transfer and assignment of career service personnel within the bargaining unit. Career service personnel shall be appointed from eligible lists provided by the Department of Personnel.
If the majority of the duties of a career service position within the bargaining unit are to be performed at a single attendance center, the principal shall appoint a qualified person from the eligible list provided by the Department of Personnel. When less than the majority of the duties of a career service position within the bargaining unit are to be performed at any single attendance center, the appointment shall be made by the appropriate administrator from the appropriate eligible list. For all positions under the jurisdiction of the Associate Superintendent for Special Education and Pupil Support Services where less than the majority of the duties of the position are to be performed at a single attendance center, the appropriate administrator is the Associate Superintendent for Special Education and Pupil Support Services.
42
9-6.2. Any career service member of the bargaining unit who is eligible to transfer shall remain on the transfer list while on an approved leave for illness granted under the provisions of Board Rule 4-11, provided that the principal, during the official visitation period established by the Department of Personnel, may go to the next name on the transfer list for visitation and approval for transfer if the first name on the list is that of a career service member of the bargaining unit on a leave for illness. Career service members of the bargaining unit returning from said leave described above shall notify, in writing, each principal of a school to which transfer has been requested that the career service member is now available for the purpose of visitation by the principal and possible transfer at the next period.
9-6.3. The BOARD shall publish a schedule of career service paydays, and when this schedule is changed, prior notice shall be given to all career service bargaining unit members.
9-6.4. Effective September, 1980, career service employees in the bargaining unit shall be paid on alternate Fridays with no longer than a one week delay between the end of the pay period and the pay date.
9-6.5. Career service members of the bargaining unit other than truant officers are on duty seven hours each school day, exclusive of a 30-minute lunch period. Career service members of the bargaining unit shall be scheduled for a 10-minute relief period during the morning and a 10-minute relief period during the afternoon. Career service members who are assigned to a local school site shall not be required to sign out for lunch unless they are leaving the school building. The hours of arrival and departure and lunch time are designated by the principal.
9-6.6. Performance ratings shall be distributed at the work location on or before September 30.
Said performance ratings shall indicate the final grade for the performance rating period ending in June.
9-6.7. Whenever, in the opinion of the principal, the service of a career service member of the bargaining unit is considered unsatisfactory, the following procedures take place:
43
(a)	The principal of the school notifies the employee in writing stating the reasons for the unsatisfactory rating and offering suggestions and assistance to the employee for improving services. This notification is given to the employee in a private conference, and a copy of the notification is sent to the director of career service personnel.
(b)	If the principal feels that the work of the employee is still unsatisfactory, after at least 20 school days following the issuance of the notice of unsatisfactory service, the principal sends a letter to the director of career service personnel notifying the director of this unsatisfactory service. A copy of this letter shall be distributed to the employee.
(c)	The director of career service personnel shall schedule a conference with the employee and the principal. At this conference, the director of career service personnel and the principal shall give positive suggestions for improvement to the employee. The UNION may be present at the conference.
Sections (a), (b) and (c) above are efficiency rating procedures only and shall not limit the right of the BOARD to remove any employee for good cause.
9-6.8. No school clerk, teacher assistant, school assistant, interpreter assistant, interpreter clerk, instructor assistant, teacher assistant-Montessori Program, school social service assistant, speech pathology assistant, licensed practical nurse or guidance counselor aide shall be requested to remain in a school building after that employee's regular working hours unless security is provided in the work area.
9-6.9. Utilization of all teacher assistants, school assistants, instructor assistants, interpreter assistants, speech pathology assistants, teacher assistants-Montessori Program, school social service assistants, licensed practical nurses, and guidance counselor aides shall be in conformity with applicable statutes and established guidelines. Such personnel shall not be used as a substitute for a teacher except for temporary emergency supervisory duty where the welfare of pupils is involved. Said temporary supervisory duty shall not exceed 60 minutes.
It is agreed and understood that no teacher may leave the
44
teacher's assigned classroom under the supervision of said personnel unless said teacher has received the approval of the principal or the principal's designee.
9-6.10. All career service members of the bargaining unit who are provisionally appointed shall receive the same benefits proportionate to their work year in the areas of sick days, personal business days, funeral days, insurance coverage, vacation, unused sick days, court attendance, and jury duty as certified career service members of the bargaining unit.
9-6.11. Regularly certified career service employees may apply to transfer to not more than three schools after having served in their present school a minimum of five school months.
After serving one full year, the applicant is eligible for transfer. Requests for transfer shall be recorded in transfer books according to the date of application, and the applicant shall be given a dated, written receipt of application.
Transfers shall be processed once a year, after the April 1st deadline for application, to become effective the first day of the ensuing school year.
Any regularly certified career service member of the bargaining unit who is eligible to transfer and who has followed the prescribed procedures shall take precedence over newly appointed or provisional career service employees in filling a vacancy at the time that transfers are being processed. At that time, only vacancies shall be filled from the transfer list before appointments are made from the career service eligible list.
No career service employee shall be transferred without the prior approval of the receiving school principal who shall visit or interview the applicant in the position order on the transfer list before appointments are made from the career service eligible list. All disapprovals must be submitted in writing by the principal to the director of the Bureau of Career Service Personnel. The career service employee shall receive a copy of said disapproval. The final decision as to transfer shall be made by the receiving school principal.
If a career service employee who is eligible for transfer is not visited or interviewed by the receiving school principal prior to the annually established deadline for visitation, said career
45
service employee transfer will be processed automatically.
A regularly certified career service employee may apply for transfer to a vacancy which may be created by the opening of a new school. However, no regularly certified career service employee shall apply for such vacancy if said employee is presently on the transfer list of three schools.
Vacancies created by the opening of a new school, encumbered by a transfer list, shall be filled from the transfer list at the time of such opening.
A regularly certified career service employee may withdraw from a school transfer list. Such withdrawal shall be in writing. A regularly certified career service employee who has applied for transfer to the maximum number of schools and has withdrawn the application from any school will not be eligible to apply for additional schools for 10 months from the date of withdrawal.
9-6.12. The BOARD agrees to review during the initial year of this Agreement the following job titles: audiometric technician, vision screening technician, truant officer, library assistant, and school community representative in order to determine if said job titles are assigned to the proper pay grade.
9-6.13. The BOARD agrees to conduct career service certification examinations for each career service job title in the bargaining unit listed in Article 1-1 during the first year of this Agreement.
Original Examinations. No provisional employee who has been employed in his or her current position for 120 days or more and who has taken the examination to be certified in such position and obtained a passing score on that examination, shall be displaced from his or her current position, irrespective of his or her rank on the register. All such provisional employees who take the first examination in a job title offered during the term of this Agreement and receive a passing score, shall be certified no later than the time of certification of the person standing highest on the rank order register.
Promotional Examinations. No employee who is working as a provisional in a higher job title for 120 days or more from the job title in which he or she has attained certified status and who takes the certification examination in the job title
46
in which he or she is working as a provisional and receives a passing score shall be displaced from his or her position by virtue of his or her provisional status and the existence of a posted civil service examination rank order register. Any such person who has been working as such a provisional for at least 120 days or more at the time of the examination shall be certified in the job title in which he or she is working as a provisional no later than the time of certification of the person standing highest on the rank order register.
9-6.14. Career service bargaining unit members shall continue to be subject to the rules of the Board of Education, applicable state civil service laws, applicable BOARD guidelines, and the Agreement between the Chicago Teachers Union and the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.
9-6.15. When programs are discontinued or reclassified, all certified career service members of the bargaining unit shall be eligible to apply for any newly created position with similar duties.
9-6.16. Staff development at the school level shall include appropriate career service personnel.
9-6.17. Administrative transfers shall be executed promptly by the sending school's principal.
9-6.18. Any career service member who has been employed for a minimum of five (5) consecutive years and has attained a bachelor's or master's degree and certified teaching qualifications shall be appointed as a teacher and be paid on Step 2 of the appropriate lane of the teacher salary schedule. He/she shall retain all accumulated sick and personal business days accumulated as a career service employee. All additional applicable benefits shall be transferred to said new teacher and he/she shall be granted one year of teacher seniority for the years employed as a career service employee.
9-7. School Community Representatives.
9-7.1. Whenever there is a reduction in school community representative (SCR) positions in a school where two or more school community representatives are assigned, the school community representative with the least amount of
47
service as a school community representative within that school shall be displaced.
9-8. School Assistants.
9-8.1. In schools where there are two or more school assistants assigned and present, if outside recess is scheduled and the principal determines that all school assistants are not needed for recess duty, the recess duties of the school assistants shall be rotated.
9-9. Educational Sign Language Interpreters.
See Article 9-6 — General Provisions.
9-10. Interpreter Clerks.
9-10.1. Interpreter Clerks shall be upgraded from grade 6 to grade 7.
See Article 9-6 — General Provisions.
9-11. Instructor Assistants.
See Article 9-6 — General Provisions.
9-12. Teacher Assistants-Montessori.
See Article 9-6 — General Provisions.
9-13. School Social Service Assistants.
See Article 9-6 — General Provisions.
9-14. Speech Pathology Assistants
See Article 9-6 — General Provisions.
9-15. Speech Pathology Aides
See Article 9-6 — General Provisions.
9-16. Licensed Practical Nurses.
See Article 9-6 — General Provisions
9-17. Guidance Counselor Aides.
See Article 9-6 — General Provisions
9-18. Occupational Therapists.
See Article 9-6 — General Provisions
48
ARTICLE 10	— COUNSELORS
10-1. The recommendation of the 1960 White House Conference on Children and Youth of a counselee-counselor ratio of 600 to 1 at the elementary level is accepted as a desirable goal.
10-2. Counselors shall have a telephone available for their use.
10-3. New buildings shall include adequate space to conduct interviews and meetings, and provide counseling for students.
10-4. A list of schools with names of principals and counselors shall be sent to each high school, in quantity, for the guidance staff, and to each elementary school.
10-5. Wherever possible, no more than 80 students shall be tested at any one time.
10-6. Effective January 1974 and thereafter, acting counselors must complete the counselor requirements no later than two years from the date of said acting assignment.
If, at the end of the applicable periods set down above, an acting counselor has not met all counselor requirements, a fully qualified counselor shall be nominated by the principal for appointment to said counselor position.
Effective September 1977 and thereafter, acting counselors shall complete the counselor requirements no later than eighteen calendar months from the date of said acting assignment.
If, at the end of the applicable periods set down above, an acting counselor has not met all counselor requirements a fully qualified counselor shall be nominated by the principal for appointment to said counselor position.
Effective September 1, 1981 and thereafter, all counselors shall be fully qualified and shall have met all Board of Education requirements for said counseling positions before assignment.
Effective September 1, 1993, any person in a counseling position must hold a Type 73 certificate.
49
10-7. Twice annually, the Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall list in the Personnel Bulletin all counselor vacancies.
10-8. At least one counselor from each high school shall attend each Counselor Information Institute conducted by the BOARD and shall communicate the substance of the Institute program to all non-attending counselors in that school.
ARTICLE 11	— DRIVER EDUCATION TEACHERS
11-1. The assignment of driver education teachers shall be based upon the date of their approval to teach this subject by the Bureau of Teacher Personnel.
11-2. As far as possible, all work assignments at each center shall be equalized to guarantee to each teacher an equal share of available work and, except where an unusual condition exists, the work load for each teacher shall be 32 hours per pay period.
11-3. There shall be no change in the status of elementary teachers now employed in the program.
11-4. Teachers assigned to a center who are being transferred shall have the right to a conference, if requested, and may be represented by the UNION.
11-5. All assignments shall be made through the Department of Personnel.
11-6. In implementation of present practice, funds allotted for driver education supplies for high school may be utilized for the purchase of approved driver education films provided there is no greater need.
11-7. In addition to established certification and educational requirements, all teachers employed in the summer driver education program must have received a satisfactory teacher efficiency rating during the preceding school year, and preference shall be given to those who received an excellent or superior rating as a driver education teacher during the preceding school year.
11-8. A driver education teacher shall receive regular driver
50
education pay for the national holiday July 4 when this holiday is celebrated on the day that teacher is scheduled to work, provided that said driver education teacher works the day before and the day after the holiday. This provision shall not be applicable when July 4 occurs on Saturday.
11-9. Summer driver education employment applications shall be available on or before the Friday following spring vacation. Nothing herein shall be construed to be applicable to any program which may be developed, funded or implemented subsequent to the above-stated date.
ARTICLE 12	- RE-ENGINEERING FAILING SCHOOLS
12-1. The BOARD and the UNION will work together to reengineer failing schools. The re-engineering process will include, but not be limited to:
•	a joint BOARD-UNION oversight panel to deal with issues related to school improvement;
•	Internal and external assessment teams will be assigned by the oversight committee to review the school improvement plan. The results of their investigation will be submitted to the oversight committee;
•	the establishment of a peer evaluation component made up of the principal and four teachers elected every two years by the faculty. The evaluation committee will be responsible for the evaluation of those designated by the principal;
•	a sign-on or opt-out component for all faculty when designated as a re-engineered school. All teachers have to decide to stay and accept possible peer evaluation or voluntarily leave the building through utilization of the opt-out program. Those teachers leaving will receive a one-year interim assignment from the BOARD to a vacancy in the system (the 60-day) interim appointment provision, (Section 7 of the reserve teacher policy, will not apply to these interim assignments).
The specifics of the re-engineering process will be developed by a committee appointed by the President of the UNION and the Chief Executive Officer of the BOARD and submitted to the joint BOARD-UNION oversight panel for consideration.
51
ARTICLE 13	— EXTRACURRICULAR PERSONNEL
13-1. Compensation for teachers engaged in extracurricular activities, such as coaching athletic teams and drama groups, directing instrumental and vocal groups, and sponsoring student activities, shall be based on the schedule appearing in the appendix of this Agreement.
13-1.1. A high school teacher appointed by the principal as the advisor for the official school yearbook or newspaper, which newspaper shall be published at intervals scheduled by the principal, shall be programmed for a normal program less one teaching period.
Where an advisor sponsors both the school newspaper and yearbook, said advisor shall be programmed for a normal program less two teaching periods.
An adult education teacher, appointed by the principal as the advisor for the official school newspaper, shall be programmed for a normal program less one teaching period for four school days prior to each publication date. Said newspaper shall be published at intervals scheduled by the principal.
13-2. Physical education teachers shall be given priority in coaching positions; however, qualified persons presently serving in coaching positions will not be replaced by this provision.
13-3. Each school shall develop a schedule of activities for the first five months, other than class field trips, no later than September 30 and for the second five months no later than February 1, and the events and rehearsals warranting pupil excuses from class shall be kept to a minimum. Deviation from the activity calendars will be made only in exceptional cases.
13-4. The principal shall be responsible for the conduct of the entire extracurricular program within the school. Whenever in the estimation of the principal any of the activities being conducted do not continue to meet requirements of the school, such activity shall be discontinued at once in that school. If the activity is discontinued, the teacher will be paid on a prorated basis.
13-5. No teacher shall be assigned to a head coaching position in more than one of the following sports: football, base
52
ball, basketball, or track; or to more than two coaching assignments in interscholastic sports during a school year.
Where a teacher, because of extenuating and special circumstances, is appointed to teach two activities and the official season of the first activity has not been terminated before the official opening date of the second activity, full compensation will be allowed only for that activity in connection with which the teacher serves the entire official season. Compensation for the other activity will be made on the basis of the percent of the total official season during which service was rendered.
13-6. At least one teacher is to remain with the pupils after the close of any activity, practice session, or game until the last pupil has left the premises. This rule applies whether the group is at the home school or field or is away.
13-7. To be eligible for appointment as a coach of a swimming team, an applicant must hold a teaching certificate indicating that the aplicant has passed the swimming requirements test administered by the Board of Examiners or holds a current Red Cross Senior Life Saving certificate or holds a current Red Cross Water Safety Instructor's certificate or a current YMCA Aquatic Leader Examiner's certificate.
13-8. By January 1, 1976, the physical education chairperson and the Board of Control Representative and a representative from the non-sports extracurricular program at each high school shall present a complete report to the local school principal recommending parental permission procedures for in-school and after-school clubs and extracurricular activities.
These reports and the recommendations of the principals shall be considered by the BOARD in the development of parental permission procedural guidelines for clubs and other activities.
A copy of these procedures, when developed, will be provided for each activity and club sponsor no later than September of each school year.
ARTICLE 14	—YEAR-ROUND SCHOOLS
14-1. Year-round teachers off-track and available to substi
53
tute shall be listed by their date of original appointment on a regular certificate and shall be assigned to substitute during their inter-sessions in the following order:
1.	teachers available to teach five days per week in seniority order;
2.	teachers available to teach four days per week in seniority order;
3.	teachers available to teach three days per week in seniority order;
4.	teachers available to teach two days per week in seniority order;
5.	teachers available to teach one day per week in seniority order.
ARTICLE 15	— LIBRARIANS: ELEMENTARY AND HIGH SCHOOL
15-1. The standard (prescribed by the American Library Association in its Standards for School Library Programs, 1960, and supported by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction in Standards for School Library Programs in Illinois, 1966) that there shall be one librarian for every 500 students or major fraction thereof shall be a goal toward which to work as funds become available.
15-2. The standard (prescribed by the American Library Association in its Standards for School Library Programs, 1960, and supported by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction in Standards for School Library Programs in Illinois, 1966) that there shall be one library clerk for every 600 students or major fraction thereof shall be a goal toward which to work as funds can be made available.
15-3. The needs of the children shall be taken into consideration when determining the priority for assignment of additional library clerical help in high schools and elementary schools.
15-4. Adequate library facilities shall be provided in all new school buildings. In existing buildings, the BOARD shall provide such facilities as funds and space can be made available.
54
15-5. As a goal toward which the BOARD shall work as funds become available, provision shall be made for all primary school children in each elementary school to have one library period per week under the direction of the teacher-librarian.
15-6. In accordance with current policy, the number of children attending a middle school or elementary library class during one class period shall not exceed the number of tables, chairs and/or other work areas available.
15-7. If the elementary school library facilities are to be used when the teacher-librarian is absent from the premises, guidelines for their use which are not in conflict with BOARD policy shall be established by the librarian, the principal, and the UNION'S Professional Problems Committee of that school.
15-8. The program of the elementary teacher-librarian shall be so arranged as to provide for a minimum of four preparation periods per week for processing books and kindred library tasks, provided that, in addition, teacher-librarians shall be provided not less than the average number of preparation periods accorded to other educational personnel in the school.
15-9. Every effort shall be made to send pertinent bulletins explaining library policies, practices, and procedures to the teacher-librarians.
15-10. One workshop or inservice meeting per school year for teacher-librarians shall be conducted at the area or district level during the regularly scheduled inservice time to provide information about new materials, equipment, techniques, and new approaches to library media service and the teaching of reading.
15-11. The principal shall designate a high school librarian to serve as department chairperson, and such chairperson shall attend all school department chairperson meetings.
15-12. In accordance with current policy, the professional high school library staff in conjunction with the faculty and administration shall plan and implement a school-wide library program.
55
15-13. A librarian shall be included on all high school curriculum committees.
15-14. Clerical assistants in the schools shall not replace teacher-librarians in class instruction or library administration.
15-15. Where administratively possible, elementary librarians serving more than one school during one school week and high school librarians shall be assigned duties related only to the library program.
15-16. On the day when a half-time librarian spends the morning at one building and the afternoon at another, said half-time librarian shall be assigned no duties outside of those resulting directly from said library assignment.
15-17. New buildings shall include adequate storage facilities for audiovisual equipment. In existing buildings, the BOARD shall provide the necessary storage facilities as funds and space can be made available.
15-18. To the extent that funds can be made available, the BOARD shall provide trained teacher assistants to distribute and maintain audio-visual equipment in the elementary school library.
15-19. Trained audio-visual assistants shall be provided in the high school library as soon as funds can be made available.
15-20. The BOARD agrees to furnish the UNION with a list of teacher-librarian vacancies to be published in the Chicago Union Teacher once a year.
ARTICLE 16	— PHYSICAL EDUCATION TEACHERS
16-1. The time allotment for physical education classes will be reviewed and clarified.
16-2. Teachers of physical education who sponsor the school safety patrol shall have one period per week for patrol gym and/or administration of the patrol.
56
16-3. Applicants for supervisory positions in the Bureau of Health and Physical Education may apply on the basis of teaching experience at the elementary or secondary level.
16-4. Wherever possible, physical education programs shall be planned to avoid frequent attire changes in successive classes.
16-5. New buildings shall include proper dressing and toilet facilities for the physical education department.
16-6. Equipment shall be available from the supply lists or through special order for all activities in the physical education course of study.
16-7. In-service training for physical education teachers shall be provided in city-wide or district level meetings during the school day.
16-8. On a day when a half-time physical education teacher spends the morning at one building and the afternoon at another, said half-time physical education teacher shall be allowed 75 minutes including lunch for travel time.
16-9. In each school, physical education teachers shall submit suggestions to the principal by December 20, 1977, for the implementation of the provisions of Title IX.
Subsequent to December 20, 1977, the principal or the principal's designee shall meet with the physical education teachers to discuss said suggestions with a view toward establishing local school procedures to implement Title IX.
ARTICLE 17	— PLAYGROUND TEACHERS
17-1. All playground teachers shall be placed on the appropriate step of the regular teachers salary schedule.
17-2. Playground teachers shall be paid on a 47-week basis.
17-3. Playground substitutes shall meet the requirements for regular or temporary certification of a teacher in playgrounds or for regular or temporary certification of a teacher of physical education.
57
17-4. Each playground shall have a fund of $100 each calendar year to be used to purchase emergency supplies and equipment, all expenditures to be approved by the bureau director.
17-5. Playground teachers shall work a 6-hour day schedule, Monday through Friday. The hours of playground teachers shall be as follows -
Monday through Friday, inclusive — 2:30 p.m. to 9:15 p.m. with 45 minutes for dinner to be taken separately as follows:
one teacher from 5:15 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
one teacher from 6:00 p.m. to 6:45 p.m.
17-6. Vacation periods and unpaid layoff time shall be on a consecutive week basis unless otherwise requested by the employee, to the extend permitted by the needs of the program through arrangement with the school principal.
Written requests for vacation and/or unpaid layoff time shall be filed by the playground teacher with the school principal at least five school days prior to the vacation or unpaid layoff time.
Seniority in the Chicago public school system of the two regularly assigned playground teachers at any given playground shall be the determining factor to the extent permitted by the needs of the program.
17-7. As long as the playground teachers are assigned in the present organizational structure, the Bureau of Health, Physical Education, Recreation, and Safety and one additional administrator designated by the General Superintendent of Schools shall meet with the playground Professional Problems Committee at the request of either party to discuss playground operations and questions other than grievances relating to the implementation of the Agreement provided, however, that there shall be such a meeting at least once a month at the playground Professional Problems Committee's request.
The Bureau of Health, Physical Education, Recreation, and Safety shall be supplied with an agenda of the items the committee wishes to cover at least 48 hours before any meeting is to take place. The Bureau of Health, Physical Education,
58
Recreation, and Safety may have in attendance any resource persons whose presence is needed in connection with a subject on the agenda. Any item the director places on a meeting agenda shall be supplied to members of the Professional Problems Committee at least 48 hours prior to the meeting.
Membership of the Professional Problems Committee shall be limited to four members.
17-8. Regularly appointed playground teachers may apply for transfer after having served a minimum of five school months in their present assignment. Effective September 1, 1977, playground teachers whose names do not now appear on any transfer list, or those playground teachers whose names appear on only one transfer list, will be permitted to apply for transfer to a total of two playgrounds. After serving one full year, the applicant is eligible for transfer.
Requests for transfer shall be recorded in transfer books according to the date of application, and the applicant shall be given a dated, written receipt of application.
Transfers shall be processed once a year after the deadline date for application to become effective the first day of the ensuring school year in September.
The final decision as to the transfer shall be made by the principal of the receiving school.
Withdrawal requests must be submitted over the signature of the playground teacher before transfer notices are issued. In all cases, it is the playground teacher's repsonsibility to know if application was made for transfer to a playground and to withdraw if transfer is no longer desired.
Playground teachers granted a voluntary transfer effective September 1, 1985 and thereafter, may apply for another voluntary transfer after having served a minimum of two years in their present school.
17-9. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall make available in December and June a list of all playground vacancies.
17-10. The BOARD will review the need for security in playgrounds and will provide security personnel where it deems necessary.
59
ARTICLE 18	— PRACTICAL ARTS AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION TEACHERS
18-1. Effective September 1, 1990:
(a)	A teacher of drafting, industrial arts, or unit shop subjects shall be allowed credit for salary step placement up to and including the third step for service and experience as a registered architect, registered professional engineer or drafter senior level or above, or journeylevel crafts worker qualified through completion of a registered apprenticeship program, or industrial experience at the technician level or above in the areas to be taught in the industrial education curriculum, gained through full-time employment in a position satisfactory to the General Superintendent of Schools, provided that such service and experience occurred subsequent to receiving a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university.
(b)	A teacher of drafting or shop with a trade certificate shall be allowed credit for salary step placement up to and including the third step for full-time service and experience as a registered architect, registered professional engineer or drafter senior level or above, or journey-level crafts worker qualified through completion of a registered apprenticeship program, or industrial experience at the technician level or above in the occupation for which certification is used, in a position satisfactory to the General Superintendent of Schools.
The present practice of lane placement of teachers employed under a trade certificate will continue.
18-2. Effective July 1, 1999, vocational teachers assigned to junior and senior level shop classes shall be programmed for 15x classes and 5x classes in schools on 50-minute schedules (or 20x and 10x for 40-, 42-, or 45-minute periods). Vocational teachers assigned to freshman and sophomore classes shall be programmed for 5x classes in schools on 50-minute schedules (or 10xfor40-, 42-, or 45-minute periods). Shop teachers on a regular day program shall have no more than 25 teaching periods. Shop teachers on an extended day program shall not have more than 30 teaching periods.
60
18-3. EMH pupils shall be assigned to classes especially programmed for them when sufficient numbers are present to provide for this grouping.
18-4. Where administratively possible, there should be no more than one class programmed for any one shop or home economics laboratory area at any given time.
18-4.1. Effective September, 1978, where possible for teachers of food and/or food services in the high schools, one of their professional preparation periods each week shall be programmed at the end of the day for the purpose of securing authorized supplies when classes are scheduled for food preparation and/or demonstration.
18-5. The amount appropriated in the 1999-2000, 20002001, 2001-2002, and 2002-2003 school years for supplies for PAVE classes shall exceed by $200,000 the full regularly established per pupil appropriation for supplies for practical arts and vocational education classes. The per pupil allocation of the $200,000 is to be determined by the assistant superintendent for the department of vocational and career education program development in consultation with a representative of the UNION.
18-6. Whenever a teacher of shop or home economics laboratory determines that the classroom conduct of a pupil may create a safety hazard for said pupil or for other pupils enrolled in the class, the shop teacher or home economics laboratory teacher shall immediately notify the principal or the principal's designee, requesting exclusion of that pupil, stating in writing the reasons therefore.
Upon receipt of written directions from the principal or the principal's designee as to where the pupil is to be sent, the pupil may be excluded from that home economics laboratory or shop class.
The principal or the principal's designee shall immediately investigate the matter. Based on the findings of the investigation and a conference with the shop teacher or home economics teacher and other appropriate members of staff, as determined by the principal, the principal shall determine the disposition of the matter.
61
18-7. Newly assigned teacher coordinators of office occupations and distributive education shall be regularly certified business education teachers.
18-7.1. Newly assigned teacher coordinators of home economics related occupations shall be regularly certified teachers on a Board of Education homemaking arts certificate.
ARTICLE 19	— PSYCHOLOGISTS
19-1. School psychologists employed in the Bureau of Child Study prior to December 16, 1967, have had the option of working 10 school months (40 weeks), 11 school months (44 weeks), 12 school months (48 weeks), or 12 calendar months. Subsequent to December 16, 1967, all school psychologists newly assigned to the Bureau of Child Study and all school psychologists who elected to convert from 12 calendar months to 12 school months shall be employed on a 12-school-month basis.
Pension contributions and sick leave shall be based on the work year for 47-week personnel. Pension contributions and sick leave for all other employment period classifications shall be based on the 39-week year.
Effective September 6, 1976, all newly appointed school psychologists and all provisional and temporarily certificated school psychologists shall be employed on a 10 school month (40 week) basis. All school psychologists currently employed on a 12 school month (48 week) basis or on an 11 school month (44 week) basis shall be given the opportunity to convert to a 10 school month (39 week) basis. Election to convert shall be final and cannot subsequently be changed at the request of the employee.
Employment of 40-week personnel beyond 40 weeks shall be considered as summer employment. Pension contributions and sick leave shall be based on a 40-week year.
Employment of 44-week personnel beyond 44 weeks shall be considered as summer employment. Pension contributions and sick leave shall be based on a 40-week year.
19-2. Pay shall be based upon the school month. Psychologists who are qualified as school psychologists as defined by state statute and who are assigned as psychologists by the
62
Department of Personnel will receive an increment of $160 per month in addition to their basic salary.
Psychologists shall furnish the Bureau of Teacher Personnel prior to the beginning of each school year documented evidence of possession of a valid State of Illinois Qualified School Psychologist Permit or a School Psychologist Certificate issued by the Illinois State Teacher Certification Board, registered for that school year and endorsed by the Office of Superintendent, Educational Service Region of Cook County.
19-3. The work day shall be 6-3/4 hours including a 45-minute lunch period.
19-4. In November, February and May, the Bureau of Teacher Personnel will supply the UNION with a list of the true vacancies for school psychologists to be published in the Chicago Union Teacher. School psychologists may indicate their desire to transfer to said vacancies. A reserve school psychologist shall be eligible to transfer in accordance with the provisions of Article 42-3 of this Agreement.
The final decision as to transfer shall be made by the Associate Superintendent for Special Education and Pupil Support Services, unless the duties of the position are performed at a single attendance center, in which case the final decision as to transfer shall be made by the receiving school principal.
19-5. Psychologists employed under the 100-day provision for retired teachers working as school psychologists shall be paid at the same rate as provisionally certified psychologists.
ARTICLE 20	— SCHOOL SOCIAL WORKERS
20-1. Effective December 16, 1967, all newly assigned school social workers and all school social workers who elected to convert from 12 calendar months to 12 school months shall be employed on a 12-school-month basis.
Pension contributions and sick leave shall be based on the work year for 12-school-month personnel.
Effective September 6, 1976, all newly appointed school social workers and all provisional and temporarily certificated school social workers shall be employed on a 10 school month (40 week) basis. All school social workers currently
63
employed on a 12 school month (47 week) basis shall be given the opportunity to convert to a 10 school month (39 week) basis. Election to convert shall be final and cannot subsequently be changed at the request of the employee.
Employment of 10-school-month school social workers beyond 40 weeks shall be considered as summer employment. Pension contributions and sick leave shall be based on a 10-school-month year.
20-2. Confidential case records of school social workers shall be maintained in a locked file cabinet or shall be secured in an available facility at the local school.
Telephone service shall be available when necessary for follow-up calls.
20-3. In November, February and May, the Bureau of Teacher Personnel will supply the UNION with a list of the true vacancies for school social workers to be published in the Chicago Union Teacher. School social workers may indicate their desire to transfer to said vacancies.
The Associate Superintendent for Special Education and Pupil Support Services, the principal, or other appropriate administrator may visit in accordance with the established personnel procedures for transfer visitation and approval.
A reserve school social worker shall be eligible to transfer in accordance with the provisions of Article 42-3 of this Agreement.
The final decision as to transfer shall be made by the Associate Superintendent for Special Education and Pupil Support Services, unless the duties of the position are performed at a single attendance center, in which case the final decision as to transfer shall be made by the receiving school principal.
ARTICLE 21	— SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHERS
21-1. FTB teachers with a minimum of eight semester hours of approved credit in special education may replace FTB teachers with no training in special education with the further proviso that a fully trained FTB teacher (one who meets the general and specific requirements for a teaching certificate and meets state requirements for special educa
64
tion) may replace any FTB teacher assigned to a special education class or program who is not fully trained in the area of special education.
21-1.1. Effective September 1, 1971, regularly certificated and full-time-basis substitute teachers assigned to special education classes who have completed 30 semester hours of approved graduate credit in the areas of special education shall be permitted to advance to Lane II of the salary schedule. Termination of service in the area of special education shall cause said teacher to revert to the appropriate lane of the salary schedule and, further, it shall be the responsibility of the teacher to notify the Bureau of Teacher Personnel of such termination.
21-1.2. Teachers who possess the necessary qualifications for possible assignment in the area of special education are encouraged to make application for such assignment. In order to make known those existing opportunities, the BOARD agrees to supply the UNION in November, February and May of each year with a list of the vacancies in the area of special education to be published in the Chicago Union Teacher three times a year. Special education positions in the area of EMH, TMH, blind and partially seeing, deaf and hard of hearing, physically handicapped, speech and language impaired, learning disabilities, behavior disordered and emotionally disturbed not filled by a regularly appointed teacher certificated in the above-cited areas shall be considered a vacancy.
21-1.3. The principal or the principal's designee shall advise special education teachers within 20 school days after the budget is received in the school, of the total amount of funds available under Fund 210 and Fund 300 special education activity numbers, and the current object, as contained the annual school budget, for the purchase of supplies and materials. All special education teachers shall have access to and shall review the current Education Supplies Catalog.
On or before a specific date to be established by the principal at each school, each special education teacher shall submit, in writing, to the principal or the principal's designee a suggested list of supplies for his or her pupils from the current Education Supplies Catalog. It is understood that supply
65
allocations are limited to the funds available.
21-2. Teachers of the Deaf.
21-2.1. Deaf and hard-of-hearing children shall be integrated in all school activities with hearing children if considered feasible by the principal.
21-2.2. One staff member able to communicate with the children shall be designated to remain in the school until any emergencies occurring after the regular school day have been resolved.
21-3. Teachers of EMH-TMH children.
21-3.1. Pupil placement in an EMH division is made only upon recommendation of a qualified psychologist followed by an authorization of the Department of Special Education.
21-3-2. When availability of teachers and space make it possible, one library period and one physical education period per week shall be provided EMH and TMH pupils.
21-3.3. The amount of money allocated for books and materials for EMH children in the high schools shall be on a per capita rather than a class enrollment formula.
21-3.4. Psychologists, school social workers, school nurses, and/or other district resource personnel designated by the district superintendent shall meet periodically with teachers of TMH and EMH children to discuss matters of professional interest. These meetings shall be held during school hours on the Wednesday morning in-service time or as scheduled by the district superintendent at a location designated by said district superintendent.
21-3.5. New teachers of high school EMH students shall be provided with appropriate in-service education during the school day to the extent possible with the supervisory staff and the substitute service available.
21-3.6. A high school EMH or TMH teacher and an elementary school EMH or TMH teacher shall refer a student in that teacher's class at any time said teacher believes reevaluation is desirable. Said teacher shall continue to be alert to
66
children who appear in need of different special education placement.
21-3.7. The BOARD shall distribute a copy of the updated “Guidelines for Special Education Programs” to each full-time teacher assigned to a special education position.
21-3.8. In accordance with the provisions of Article 29-1 of this Agreement the UNION shall have representation on city, district or school level committees established to plan and develop proposals seeking government funding for programs in special education subject areas.
21-4. Social Adjustment Teachers.
Not applicable since the BOARD does not presently employ social adjustment teachers.
21-5. Speech Pathology Teachers.
21-5.1. Each semester the Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall make available to speech pathology teachers a list of vacancies to which they may indicate their desire to transfer. The BOARD shall supply the UNION with said list of vacancies to be published in the Chicago Union Teacher three times a year.
A reserve speech pathology teacher shall be eligible to transfer in accordance with the provisions of Article 42-3 of this Agreement.
The final decision as to the transfer shall be made by the Associate Superintendent of Schools for Special Education and Pupil Support Services, unless the duties of the position are performed at a single attendance center, in which case the final decision as to transfer shall be made by the receiving school principal.
21-5.2. Speech pathology teachers who travel from one school to another during the noon hour shall be allowed 75 minutes including lunch for travel time.
21-5.3. Wherever possible, speech pathology teachers shall be provided with space which is as free from noise and interruption as the administration of the educational program and the location of the school permits.
67
21-5.4. One city-wide in-service meeting per year for speech pathology teachers to discuss educational, medical and other topics related to speech correction shall be scheduled.
The BOARD shall also conduct one annual staff development workshop for speech pathology teachers.
21-5.5. All new BOARD forms and communications that involve speech therapy shall be designated “Speech and Language Impaired.”
21-6. Teachers of the Blind and Partially Sighted.
21-6.1. Consultants and other resource personnel working in the program for the blind and partially sighted shall arrange conferences periodically with the teachers of the blind and partially sighted during the school day at times, if possible, when children are not scheduled for their classrooms.
21-6.2. One city-wide in-service meeting per year for teachers of visually impaired students to discuss educational, medical, and other topics related to visually impaired students shall be scheduled.
21-7. Teachers in Behavior Disordered - E.R.A. Programs.
21-7.1. One city-wide in-service meeting per year for Master teachers assigned to the behavior Disordered - E.R.A. program to discuss educational, medical and other topics related to the Behavior Disordered - E.R.A. program shall be scheduled.
21-7.2. Teachers assigned to the Behavior Disordered -E.R.A. program shall meet all requirements, including the requirements for financial reimbursement. Teachers not meeting said requirements shall be removed from the position when a fully qualified Behavior Disordered - E.R.A. teacher is available.
21-8. Teachers in Learning Disabilities Programs.
21-8.1. A high school or elementary teacher of a severe
68
learning disability class shall request a staffing conference and possible re-examination for a pupil in the teacher's class whenever the teacher believes re-evaluation is necessary. Said request shall be made in strict accordance with established procedures.
21-9. Physical Therapists.
21-9.1. The handbook of guidelines and procedures for special education referred to in the 1976-77 Agreement, Article 21, Section 3.7, shall be amended to include a sub-section related to the special education support services of teacher certificated physical therapists when said sub-section has received full and final approval in accordance with Article 45-1 of this Agreement.
21-10. Teachers of Orthopedically Handicapped Children.
21-10.1. One city-wide in-service meeting per year shall be scheduled for all special education classroom teachers of orthopedically handicapped children.
ARTICLE 22	— STADIUM DIRECTORS
22-1. Stadium directors shall receive the following increment in addition to their regular salary:
Effective September 1, 1993:
First year	$64.37 per month
Second year and thereafter $96.52 per month
22-2. The working schedule of days and hours for stadium directors shall be determined by the regional officer in accordance with the needs of the program.
ARTICLE 23	— CLASSIFICATION OF SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS
23-1. When a vacancy has remained unfilled for fifteen (15) consecutive school days, the principal notifies the Bureau of Teacher Personnel in writing. Vacancies that continue for a period of more than twenty consecutive school days shall be filled by the Bureau of Teacher Personnel with a full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher approved by the principal so as
69
to assure that the racial composition, and where possible, the experience and educational training of each school's faculty more nearly approach the system-wide proportions as follows:
If a vacancy is filled by a teacher approved by the principal whose assignment would assure that the racial composition, and where possible, the experience and educational training of each school's faculty more nearly approach the system-wide proportions, that teacher shall be assigned to the position as an FTB by the Bureau of Teacher Personnel provided the teaching permit area requirements are met.
If a vacancy is filled by a teacher approved by the principal who does not enhance integration but who has agreed in writing to accept an assignment to enhance integration and no other vacancy exists to which the teacher could be assigned to enhance integration, that teacher shall be assigned to the position by the Bureau of Teacher Personnel provided the teaching permit area requirements are met.
It is agreed and understood that all applicants for assignment as full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teachers must indicate in writing, to the Bureau of Teacher Personnel their willingness to work on a full-time-basis. The designation does not include provisional teachers, 100 day pensioners, teachers holding regular teaching permits who have waived or resigned a regular appointment, teachers who have refused an assignment as a full-time-basis (FTB) teacher, nor teachers who do not hold the appropriate teaching permit or do not have an approval request authorization approved by the Bureau of Employment Eligibility for the given subject.
23-2. The title Day-to-Day Substitute is used to designate all other substitute teachers.
23-3. Teachers who hold temporary teaching certificates (other than provisional certificates) who are employed as full-time-basis (FTB) substitutes shall be eligible to receive salary adjustments up to and including the second step of the appropriate lane to allow credit for prior service as a full-time day school teacher in the Chicago public schools or in schools outside the Chicago public school system provided, however, that the provisions of Sections 4-28 of the Rules of the Board of Education covering salary adjustments are met and an application (Salary Adjustment T. Per. 41) and, if out
70
side time is involved, an affidavit (Affidavit Form T. Per. 42) are filed with the Bureau of Teacher Personnel. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall acknowledge within 25 days, in writing, the receipt of such application and shall indicate any deficiency in the application. At the time application is made, the teacher shall furnish the Bureau of Teacher Personnel with a stamped, self-addressed envelope.
To be eligible for a salary adjustment based on teaching experience in the Chicago public schools effective on the date of employment, full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teachers must make proper claim to the Bureau of Teacher Personnel within 60 days of the date of employment. After 60 days the effective date for a salary adjustment based on teaching experience in the Chicago public schools shall be the date proper claim is received in the Bureau of Teacher Personnel.
Salary step adjustments for outside teaching experience for full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teachers shall be made effective from the date of employment provided that proper claim and documentary proof are on file within 90 days of employment. After 90 days of employment, the effective date for salary adjustments becomes the date on which the application and affidavit are received in the Bureau of Teacher Personnel.
No salary adjustment claim or verification of employment outside of the Chicago public schools will be considered if filed after one year of original placement as a full-time-basis temporarily certified teacher.
23-4. Teachers who hold temporary teaching certificates (other than provisional certificates) who are employed as full-time-basis (FTB) substitutes, and who qualify to take an examination for a regular teaching certificate, and who agree to take the examinations as soon as it is offered by the Bureau of Employment Eligibility shall also be eligible for an additional salary adjustment up to and including the third step of the appropriate lane provided, however, that they have not had such a salary lane adjustment at a previous time and that the provisions of Section 4-28 of the Rules of the Board of Education covering salary adjustment are met and an application (Salary Adjustment T. Per. 41) and, if outside time is involved, an affidavit (Affidavit Form T. Per. 42) is filed with the Bureau of Teacher Personnel.
71
Any full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher who has had the above-mentioned salary adjustment and who fails to qualify for placement on an Academically Qualified List, if established by the Bureau of Employment Eligibility within one year shall revert to the full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher's appropriate step and lane but no higher than step two.
Teachers on existing eligibility lists who are employed as fulltime-basis (FTB) substitute teachers shall also be eligible for additional salary adjustment in accordance with the abovecited requirements and procedures.
23-4.1. The full burden of responsibility for submitting claim and proof thereof of all salary and/or lane advancements rests with the teacher. Experience outside of Chicago must be documented.
23-4.2. Whenever a full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher is placed on an Academically Qualified List by the Bureau of Employment Eligibility, said full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher shall not be subject to the salary step limitations outlined in Articles 23-3 and 23-4 of this Agreement.
23-5. FTBs may be exchanged, assigned or reassigned by the Department of Personnel in such a way as to enhance and maintain the goals of the Plan to Implement the Provisions of Title VI of the Civil Flights Act of 1964 and to assure that the racial composition, experience and educational training of each school's faculty are in accordance with the Plan.
FTBs in a school who do enhance the achievement of the integration goal and who have regular certificates and who have satisfactory ratings shall have preference over other FTBs in filling vacancies in the area of certification in that school for the following school year.
A review committee shall be established to hear and decide appeals only on the basis of hardship in the case of FTBs whose assignments were made subsequent to June 30, 1999, to enhance and maintain the goals of the Plan provided that said teacher has not had a prior review within the past twelve months.
23-6. FTBs being removed from an assignment during the school year, except when being replaced by a regularly
72
appointed certificated teacher, shall have the right to a conference at the personnel office and may be represented by the UNION.
ARTICLE 24	— SUMMER SCHOOL
24-1. Assignments to regular summer school positions shall be made 10 school days prior to the end of the school year.
24-1.1. Each year summer school employment applications shall be available on or before the Monday following spring vacation. Nothing herein shall be construed to be applicable to any program which may be developed, funded, or implemented subsequent to the above-stated date.
24-1.2. To the extent possible, assignment for summer school employment for other members of the bargaining unit shall be made by June 1.
24-1.3. The BOARD shall establish a list of teachers and other members of the bargaining unit assigned to summer schools during the 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 summer school sessions within ten days after the date summer school assignments are made under the provisions of Article 24-1.2 and 24-2 of this Agreement.
24-2. Assignments to all summer schools shall be made in the following order: (1) Regularly appointed teachers in their own subject, (2) Regularly certificated teachers in their own subject, (3) Regularly appointed teachers certified in other subjects in which they satisfy Bureau of Employment Eligibility requirements, (4) FTBs, (5) Day-to-day substitutes.
24-3. It is agreed and understood that any exception to Articles 24-2 and 24-4 of this Agreement shall be discussed between a three member committee of the UNION and a three member committee of the BOARD, which shall include a representative of the General Superintendent of Schools and a representative of the Deputy Superintendent of Schools for Field Services. Such discussion shall include all programs designated as on-going. Exceptions to the above-cited articles shall not be implemented unless there is agreement between the BOARD and the UNION. Every effort will be made to conclude the discussions by May 1, each year.
73
24-4. In areas where there are more qualified applicants for summer school positions than positions available, preference shall be given to applicants who have taught fewer than two summer sessions immediately preceding the current summer session.
24-5. Final grades for non-graduates enrolled in one class shall be due Thursday of the final week; final grades for nongraduates enrolled in more than one class shall be due on Wednesday of the final week.
24-6. Textbooks shall be available Thursday of the first week, or as soon thereafter as possible considering the need to reorganize classes because of enrollment, and shall not be required to be collected prior to Wednesday of the last week. It is understood that the inventory and accounting of summer school textbooks and materials shall be completed on the last day of summer school.
24-7. Each summer high school will continue to establish a list of summer school subject offerings based upon a consideration of the needs of the students it serves.
24-8. Summer school teachers shall be paid their regular base rate as teachers prorated for the length of the day with no lane or step limitation.
24-9. The amount allocated in the 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 for summer school classes for special education children shall exceed the amount allocated in 1970 by the sum of $250,000.
24-10. Teachers holding valid certificates in physical education, issued by the Bureau of Employment Eligibility, shall be given priority in the assignment to fill physical activities positions in the summer school programs and in the summer recreation programs in the social centers if such programs are established.
24-11. If summer school classes are provided for students for whom English is a second language, said classes shall be staffed by trained TESL or bilingual education teachers who were employed in these programs during the regular school year.
74
24-12. Any school clerk position established in summer programs shall be filled by certified school clerks.
24-13. Summer school positions occurring prior to the tenth day of summer school, as a result of opening of new summer school classes or the failure of a teacher to accept a teaching position for the summer, shall be filled in conformity with the applicable provisions of Article 24 of this Agreement.
24-14. When summer school programs are operated at a school site, in order to provide continuity of service, one of the certified school clerks regularly assigned to the school shall be retained for summer service, if a school clerk position is necessary for said program. Such service shall be considered as summer school employment.
If the regularly certified school clerks assigned to the school during the regular school year waive this opportunity, the position shall be filled at the discretion of the Director of Career Service Personnel.
ARTICLE 25	— TEACHER ASSISTANTS
25-1. The BOARD shall employ and maintain 900 teacher assistants in elementary schools and 900 teacher assistants in the high schools. The General Superintendent shall consult and advise the President of the UNION monthly on status and progress.
Teacher assistants employed in the elementary schools, high schools and vocational guidance centers shall be employed to relieve teachers of nonprofessional duties and clerical chores in the schools.
25-2. Representation of government-funded teacher assistants by the UNION shall be subject to the following conditions:
(a)	Government-funded assistants to be represented will be those employed by the BOARD in federal and state-funded programs, excluding Model Cities programs.
(b)	Such assistants as are eligible for representation must express their desires in a secret ballot representation election to be paid for by the UNION.
(c)	It is understood and agreed by the parties that no provi
75
sion of this Agreement or any guidelines concerning the employment of teacher assistants shall apply where inconsistent with or in conflict with guidelines established by the BOARD and/or the federal or state agency for any given government-funded program.
ARTICLE 26	— SCHOOL NURSES
26-1. Each semester the Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall make available to the school nurses a list of vacancies to which they may indicate their desire to transfer, but the final decision as to the transfer shall be made by the Associate Superintendent for Special Education and Pupil Support Services, unless the duties of the position are to be performed at a single attendance center, in which case the final decision as to transfer shall be made by the principal of the receiving school.
26-2. A reserve school nurse shall be eligible to transfer in accordance with the provisions of Article 42-3 of this Agreement.
The final decision as to transfer shall be made by the Associate Superintendent for Special Education and Pupil Support Services, unless the duties of the position are performed at a single attendance center, in which case the final decision as to transfer shall be made by the receiving school principal.
26-3. Effective December 16, 1967, all newly assigned school nurses and all school nurses who elected to convert from 12 calendar months to 12 school months shall be employed on a 12-school-month basis.
Pension contributions and sick leave shall be based on the work year for 12-school-month personnel.
Effective September 6, 1976, all newly appointed school nurses and all provisional and temporarily certificated school nurses shall be employed on a 10-school-month (39) week basis. All school nurses currently employed on a 12-school-month (47 week) basis shall be given the opportunity to convert to a 10-school-month (39 week) basis. Election to convert shall be final and cannot subsequently be changed at the request of the employee.
Employment of 10-school-month school nurses beyond 39
76
weeks shall be considered summer employment. Pension contributions and sick leave shall be based on a 10-school-month year.
26-4. In accordance with Section 6-12 of the Rules of the Board, the school nurse and the health assistants assigned to a school are under the supervision of the principal. The school nurse shall have direct supervision over health records as well as responsibility for assigning specific duties to the health assistant which relate to the health program.
26-5. Each school shall provide a desk, chair, and a file cabinet for the school nurse. Telephone service shall be available when necessary for follow-up calls.
In those schools where space is not available for a school nurse office, every effort shall be made to provide suitable space for confidential interviews. It shall be the responsibility of the school nurse to notify the principal or the principal's designee when a confidential interview has been scheduled.
26-6. At least one professional orientation meeting shall be held during the regular school in-service meeting time for all school nurses. Said meeting may be held at the district or city-wide level. It is understood that district meetings may be on different dates in order to provide appropriate resource personnel, if such resource personnel are needed.
26-7. Effective September 1, 1990, all newly appointed and new full-time-basis (FTB) substitute school nurses shall receive credit on the teacher salary schedule for full-time nursing experience subsequent to receipt of a Bachelor's degree in accordance with the provisions of Article 23-3, 23-4, 234.1, and 23-4.2 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 27	— CLASS COVERAGE
27-1. Effective January 1, 1969, the BOARD shall hire and maintain additional day-to-day substitutes in addition to the 900 previously agreed upon to cover the classes of absent teachers so that educational programs in elementary schools, middle schools, education and vocational guidance centers, and high schools shall not be curtailed.
In removing the ceiling heretofore in effect, it is agreed that
77
the BOARD will diligently utilize all possible means to hire and assign up to 300 of such additional substitutes.
27-1.1. Effective July 1, 1999 for the 1999-2000 school year, July 1, 2000 for the 2000-2001 school year, July 1, 2001 for the 2001 -2002 school year, and July 1,2002 for the 2002-2003 school year, the BOARD shall establish a day-today substitute Cadre to which it will select and assign day-today substitute teachers for the 1999-2000, 2000-2001,2001 -2002, and 2002-2003 school years to cover the classes of absent teachers in the elementary schools, middle schools, upper grade centers, and education and vocational guidance centers. On all pupil attendance days through November 1, when the number of teachers absent is less than 300, the remaining Cadre members shall be sent to those schools which the BOARD identifies as having the greatest instructional needs. On all pupil attendance days after November 1, when the number of teachers absent is less than 300, the remaining Cadre members shall be sent to the schools which the BOARD identifies as having the greatest instructional needs.
The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall establish criteria to be used in the selection and retention of teachers in the substitute Cadre; certified teachers awaiting appointment shall be given first priority for assignment to the day-to-day substitute Cadre. The day-to-day substitute teachers selected by the BOARD shall be employed on all pupil attendance days during the time they are assigned to the substitute Cadre other than on the final day of the 1999-2000, 2000-2001, 2001-2002, and 2002-2003 school years. Said day-to-day substitute teachers shall be continuously available to perform substitute service. Further, they shall accept all assignments in any and every school.
Whenever a Cadre member becomes a full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher under the provisions of Article 23-1 of this Agreement, a day-day-substitute replacement shall be employed immediately. If a Cadre member is subsequently removed from FTB status, for reasons other than unsatisfactory service, said teacher shall be reassigned to the Cadre as soon as an opening becomes available.
The number of day-to-day substitutes in the Cadre shall not fall below 300 between the first student attendance day of the 1999-2000 school year and November 1, 1999, the first
78
student attendance day of the 2000-2001 school year and November 1, 2000, the first student attendance day of the 2001-2002 school year and November 1, 2001, or the first student attendance day of the 2002-2003 school year and November 1, 2003. The number of day-to-day substitutes in the Cadre shall not fall below 900 after November 1, 1999, or November 1, 2000, or November 1, 2001, or November 1, 2002. Every effort shall be made to recruit a portion of dayto-day substitute teachers for the Cadre who meet the needs of pupils whose first language is other than English.
Day-to-day substitute teachers employed in the Cadre shall be paid $109.62 during the 1999-2000 school year, $111.81 during the 2000-2001 school year, $114.05 during the 20012002 school year, and $116.33 during the 2002-2003 school year. The provisions of Article 44-2 shall not apply to required inservice training for the Cadre up to a limit of three such sessions of up to two hours per session. Except as provided in Appendix B, the BOARD agrees to pay the cost of individual health insurance for each day-to-day substitute teacher employed full-time in the Cadre. Effective November 1, 1979, a day-to-day substitute teacher employed full-time in the Cadre shall have the option of purchasing at the substitute teacher's own expense family plan hospitalization and major medical insurance coverage at the group rate during the period said day-to-day substitute teacher is assigned to the Cadre. Cadre substitutes shall receive holiday pay provided the teacher is present and serves as a teacher on the school day immediately before and after the holiday. Any and all benefits associated with duty in this substitute Cadre are limited to those enumerated in this Article.
It is agreed and understood that in the event that salary increases exceed 2% for the 2000-2001 school year, 2% for the 2001-2002 school year, and/or 2% for the 2002-2003 school year, per diem salary rates for day-to-day substitute teachers employed in the Cadre shall be increased by the same amount provided to teachers and other bargaining unit members.
27-2. The BOARD agrees, in principle, that no teacher shall be requested to assume responsibility for students from classrooms of absent teachers when substitutes are unavailable.
In elementary schools, middle schools, upper grade centers, 79
education and vocational guidance centers, and high schools, at no time should special programs such as library, physical education, shop, TESL, bilingual or special reading classes, be discontinued so that substitute service may be performed by teachers of these programs, except in the case of emergencies, in which case the above teachers shall be subject to last call after available non-teaching certificated personnel have been assigned.
27-2.1. Teachers shall report their anticipated absences to the substitute center as early as possible in order to enable substitute teachers to arrive in the school before the beginning time of the teachers' work day.
27-3. The BOARD agrees, in principle, that teachers, during their duty-free professional preparation periods shall not be requested to take the class of an absent teacher. Effective October 29, 1979, whenever a teacher's duty-free professional preparation period is canceled, the principal shall schedule a make-up duty-free professional preparation period for that teacher at a future time.
27-4. A substitute shall be provided to cover the classes of classroom teachers required by the BOARD to attend Board-sponsored workshops or Board in-service meetings when held during the regular school day.
27-5. The BOARD agrees to maintain a list of day-to-day substitutes who wish to make themselves available for work each day.
27-6. Day-to-day substitute teachers shall indicate their availability for work on a given school day by contacting the substitute center prior to 5:00 p.m. on the preceding school day or between 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on that given school day.
ARTICLE 28	— CLASS SIZE
28-2.1. Effective September 7, 1976, the BOARD agrees to implement the following maximum class size program.
I.	Elementary schools and vocational guidance centers
A. Staffing: Effective February 7, 1994;
28 at the kindergarten level
80
28 at the primary level
31 at the intermediate level and upper grade level
20 in the education and vocational guidance centers
1.	The number of classroom teaching positions provided to each elementary school shall be determined as follows:
a.	the total number of intermediate and upper grade students shall be divided by 31 on a whole number basis, i.e., the division shall not be extended to a decimal place. If the division is uneven, then the remaining I4-U8 students shall be included in the primary membership;
b.	the total number of primary students shall be divided by 28 extended to one decimal place, and rounded up to the nearest whole number;
c.	the total number of kindergarten students shall be divided by two, extended to one decimal place, and rounded up to the nearest whole number; this number shall then be divided by 28, extended to one decimal place, and rounded up to the nearest half (0.5) number;
d.	the sum of a, b, and c represents the total number of teaching positions which shall be provided to each elementary school;
e.	Teachers assigned to the Intensive Reading Improvement Program or to bilingual programs shall not be counted as part of the number provided to implement the maximum class size program in each school.
2.	The total number of education and vocational guidance center students shall be divided by 20, extended to one decimal place, and rounded up to the nearest whole number.
B. Organization
1.	Elementary Schools With Space Available
In those elementary schools in which space is
81
available, the number of students in classes shall be as follows:
27-29 in kindergarten classes
27-29 in primary grade classes
30-32 in intermediate classes and upper grade classes
It is recognized that implementation of these maximums in specific schools may result in problems relating to class reorganization, single section classes, split grades, and installation of experimental programs. Local school deviations from the class sizes indicated above may be made if there is mutual agreement of the principal, the school Professional Problems Committee, and the teachers involved, when necessary to implement special programs for instructional improvement or to meet special needs of the particular school.
2.	Elementary Schools Without Space Available
In those elementary schools in which space is unavailable to organize classes as indicated above, the additional teachers provided under the staffing in “A” shall share the curriculum planning, instructional responsibilities, and all other related duties of teachers. Said additional teachers shall be programmed in such a way as to provide for maximum teacher-pupil contacts on a regularly scheduled basis to share the instructional load of the classroom teachers. Said additional teachers may not be used primarily for:
administrative assistance building security purposes clerical or office-type tasks discipline purposes substituting lunchroom duty playground duty
guidance purposes — adjustment and counseling
3.	All schools shall be designated as schools with space available or schools without space available. The UNION, in accordance with the provi
82
sions of Article 1-7 of this Agreement, shall receive from the BOARD five periodic reports during the school year which shall include the following:
a.	a listing of the names of the schools where space is available;
b.	listing of the names of the schools where space is not available and where additional teachers have been assigned.
4.	Elementary schools without space available and where additional teachers have been assigned shall;
a.	receive first priority in the assignment of Cadre and day-to-day substitute teachers;
b.	have physical education teachers and teacher-librarians assigned based on the number of teaching positions, with each kindergarten class counted as one position.
A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established in accordance with the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to consider problems encountered in schools without space available. The committee shall study, discuss, and analyze the effective use of additional funds made available to the principal's discretionary fund in overcrowded schools, and shall explore other approaches to reduce class size and deliver educational services in overcrowded schools. This committee shall submit recommendations to the General Superintendent of Schools concerning a resolution of this problem. Membership on said committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel selected by either the BOARD or the UNION.
The BOARD and the UNION seek a joint solution to reduce maximum class size at the kindergarten and primary levels in overcrowded elementary schools. During the 1993-94 and 1994-
83
95 school years, the BOARD agrees to make available to overcrowded elementary schools an amount of funds equal to the cost of reducing class size in those schools by 2 students at the kindergarten level and 2 students at the primary level. These funds shall be placed in the principal's discretionary fund and expended by the principal only after discussion between the Professional Problems Committee and the principal. Said expenditures shall be subject to the approval of the Local School Improvement Council. The funds shall be expended for educational purposes, including but not limited to, the assignment of additional career service personnel such as teacher assistants, school community representatives, truant officers or other such support personnel; offering auxiliary and supplemental educational programs and/or additional components to existing programs; and/or ordering and utilizing equipment and facilities to augment the educational program. It is agreed that an “overcrowded school” is as described in the BOARD publication entitled Overcrowded Enrollment in the Chicago Public Schools.
5.	The BOARD and UNION seek a joint solution to reduce low reading and math achievement at the kindergarten level and primary level in elementary schools designated by the BOARD'S Department of Research and Evaluation as elementary schools with low reading and math achievement. During the 1993-94 and 1994-95 school years, the BOARD agrees to make available to such designated elementary schools a total amount of $250,000 to be distributed in equal proportionate amounts among the designated schools. These funds shall be placed in the principal's discretionary fund and expended by the principal only after discussion between the Professional Problems Committee and the principal. Said expenditures shall be subject to the approval of the Local School Improvement Council. The funds shall be expended for educational purposes, including but not limited to, the assignment of additional professional staff; as
84
signment of additional career service personnel such as teacher assistants, school community representatives, truant officers or other such support personnel; offering auxiliary and supplemental educational programs and/or ordering and utilizing equipment and facilities to augment the educational program.
6.	The BOARD and the UNION seek a joint solution to reduce maximum class size at the kindergarten and primary levels in 100 elementary schools currently in compliance with class size maximums in effect on August 31, 1987. Said 100 elementary schools shall be identified by the Department of Research and Evaluation as elementary schools with the lowest reading and math scores other than those elementary schools designated by the Department of Research and Evaluation pursuant to Article 28-2.1 (B5).
During the 1993-94 and 1994-95 school years, by the fortieth day of the school year, the BOARD agrees to reduce the maximum class size in such designated schools by 2 students at the kindergarten level, by 2 at the first grade level, and by 2 at the 2nd and 3rd grade levels at such designated schools.
During the 1993-94 and 1994-95 school years by the fortieth day of the school year, the reduction by two (2) students from the established maximum class size in kindergarten through third grade levels shall be continued at said designated schools.
7.	Additional art or music teachers shall be assigned to elementary schools in the following formula:
.5 position for schools whose enrollment is 750 or less;
1.0 position for schools whose enrollment is 751 or more.
II.	High School Staffing and Organization*
A.	The maximum number of students in the classes in-
85
dicated below shall be as follows:
English (regular, honors, and
advanced placement)	28
English (essential or basic)	25
Mathematics (regular, honors, and
advanced placement)	28
Mathematics (remedial)	25
Foreign Language	28
Social Studies	28
Business Education	28
General Science - Science Laboratory	28
Home Economics - Non-Laboratory	28
If essential or basic students are programmed in the same English or mathematics class with regular or honors students, the maximum class size shall be 25 students.
It is recognized that implementation of these class sizes in specific schools may result in problems relating to individual class sizes, single section classes, installation of experimental programs, scheduling of special subject classes, and class organization and reorganization. Local school deviations from the class sizes indicated above may be made if there is mutual agreement of the principal, the Professional Problems Committee, and the teachers involved, when necessary to implement special programs for instructional improvement or to meet special needs of the particular schools. The total number of subject matter students assigned to each teacher will not exceed the number of subject classes multiplied by the maximum class size for the given subject indicated.
B.	Effective September 7, 1986, the number of students assigned to teachers indicated below shall be determined by multiplying the number indicated next to the subject by the number of classes in the given subject.
Art	31
General Music	34
Physical Education	40
86
C. For the first semester of the 1993-94 school year only, elementary class size shall be increased by one, high school regular, honors and advanced placement class size shall be increased by two and high school basic and essential English and math shall be increased by five. In addition to the quota teacher positions allocated to schools during the first semester of the 1993-94 school year only, the general superintendent shall allocate $2.3 million to schools for an additional 100 teaching positions and teacher overtime. Subject to other provisions of the Agreement, a single position may be allocated to more than one school. The general superintendent shall allocate these funds to allow schools to open classes in order that additional high school juniors and seniors can fulfill graduation and college entrance requirements within four years.
*lt is agreed and understood that one of the responsibilities of all high school teachers is to work to improve reading skills of all students in all subject areas.
III. Class Size Monitoring Process
A joint BOARD-UNION panel shall be established to monitor concerns regarding class size brought to its attention by the UNION. The panel shall be composed of two retired teachers, two retired principals, and a representative of the BOARD'S Office of Accountability and shall meet on a biweekly basis.
The panel shall have authority to make recommendations to the Chief Executive Officer to resolve class size concerns. The panel also shall issue reports semi-annually to the Office of Accountability and the UNION.
28-3. Shop, Home Economics, Laboratory, and Drafting. Shop, home economics, laboratory and drafting classes shall be limited in size to the maximum number of work stations available in each individual physical classroom in each school. The number of stations in each individual classroom shall be determined by the individual teacher, school administrator, and the shop supervisor of the BOARD.
28-4. The class size in special education classes shall be in accordance with guidelines established by the BOARD in
87
“Guidelines for Special Education Programs, 1984” and the Rules and Regulations of the State Board of Education.
ARTICLE 29	— CURRICULUM GUIDE AND TEXTBOOK EVALUATION COMMITTEES
29-1. On each curriculum guide committee and textbook evaluation committee, the UNION shall have one representative for every ten committee members or any major fraction thereof. Elementary teachers selected by the UNION shall have at least two years experience as a regularly appointed teacher in the Chicago public schools on their certificate and have competence in the subject area of the committee.
To serve on a high school curriculum or textbook committee, the teacher shall have at least two years of experience as a regularly appointed teacher, teaching on a regular certificate, such certificate to be in the subject area of the committee.
ARTICLE 30	— DISCIPLINE
30-1. A teacher, upon written notice to the principal or the principal's designee, and upon receipt of written instruction of where the pupil is to be sent, which the principal or the principal's designee shall send immediately, may exclude from class a pupil who is causing serious disruption.
Whenever a pupil is excluded from class the teacher will confer with the principal, or the principal's designee, to provide the necessary information concerning the pupil and shall provide a complete written statement of the problem within 24 hours. Said written statement shall include a summary of any informational background or prior action taken by the teacher relative to the student's behavioral problems. The principal or the principal's designee, will only reinstate the pupil after a conference on classroom conduct and school rules which will be held on non-instructional time and must include the teacher.
The principal, or the principal's designee, and the classroom teacher will initiate immediately a diagnostic review with appropriate members of staff to attempt to determine the basic cause of the pupil's problem and the corrective measures to be taken.
88
30-2. After a total of three written referrals for a pupil causing serious disruption, the principal or the principal's designee, shall have the child, parent and teacher or teachers involved attend a conference on classroom conduct and school rules.
The school shall be represented at this conference by the principal or the principal's designee. If the teacher or teachers involved and the principal or the principal's designee agree that a procedure other than a parental conference would be most beneficial to the child, that procedure may be substituted. This shall be a prerequisite to returning the child to class.
30-3. If the pupil continues to cause serious disruption, the principal shall suspend the pupil for a period not exceeding ten school days for each offense.
When a pupil has been suspended, the principal, or the principal's designee, and the teacher will take the necessary steps to continue the diagnostic review with the appropriate members of staff to attempt to determine the basic cause of the pupil's behavioral problem and the corrective measures to be taken.
30-4. Principals, or their designee, shall notify the police in case of serious school-related offenses including, but not limited to extortion, possession of narcotics, possession of alcohol, arson or attempted arson, serious theft, serious vandalism, false reports of fire or bombs, possession or use of weapons, assault on an employee and reported instances of trespassing. Trespassing is defined as presence without invitation or consent of one in legal possession of the property.
30-5. A continuous record of discipline cases shall be maintained by the principal or the principal's designee and shall be available in the school office for use by the assistant principal, the pupil's classroom teachers, counselor, truant officer, psychologist, social worker, and school nurse when needed.
30-6. In the event of a school-related assault on an employee, the Law Department of the BOARD, when notified, shall inform the employee of the employee's legal rights, and the employee shall be assisted by the Law Department in court appearances. Teachers will immediately report to the school
89
principal all cases of assault in which they are involved while acting in the course of their employment.
Principals shall immediately report all school-related assaults by telephone, followed by a written assault report to the Bureau of School Safety/Environment and to their respective district superintendent. The Bureau of School Safety/Environment shall immediately notify the Law Department of the BOARD.
Whenever a teacher or other employee listed under Article 1-1 of this Agreement is involved in a school-related assault case resulting in court action, said employee shall inform the principal, the district superintendent, the Deputy Superintendent of Schools and the Law Department by a written notice to the office of the principal stating the date, time and place of the scheduled court appearance.
30-7. The BOARD, through its principals and other administrators, agrees to work with teachers and other members of the bargaining unit, parents, and appropriate agencies, in seeking solutions to school and classroom discipline problems within the applicable provisions of the School Code and the Rules of the Board of Education.
30-7.1. All other members of the bargaining unit shall continue to assist teachers in the maintenance of proper standards of pupil behavior on the school premises during recess, passing periods, and at times of pupil entrance and dismissal.
30-8. Effective November 1, 1977, each local school principal, or the principal's designee, shall have available for day-to-day substitute teachers local school discipline procedures to be followed by day-to-day substitute teachers.
Day-to-day substitutes, upon reporting for duty, shall request this information from the principal or the principal's designee.
ARTICLE 31	— DUPLICATING FACILITIES
31-1. Insofar as possible, duplicating machines, duplicating masters, duplicating paper, duplicating fluid and typewriters should be made available for the use of teachers in preparing instructional materials.
90
ARTICLE 32	— INSURANCE
32-1. Except as provided for in Appendix B, the BOARD shall provide for each full time teacher or other bargaining unit member medical and health care benefits, including an indemnity/preferred provider option (PPO) plan and an alternative medical pre-paid group health plan.
32-1.1. Effective September 1, 1993, the BOARD shall continue to provide the applicable coverage for teachers granted a leave for illness under the provisions of Board Rule 4-33 and other members of the bargaining unit on leave for ordinary or duty disability. Continued coverage for regularly appointed members of the teaching force and certified career service members of the bargaining unit shall not exceed 25 school months. Continued coverage for full-time-basis (FTB) temporarily certified teachers shall not exceed five school months unless extended, provided, however, that all coverage shall terminate at the end of June with the close of school, with the expiration of their temporary teaching certificates. Such continued coverage is subject to the provisions of Appendix B.
32-1.1 (a). Effective September 1, 1993, the BOARD shall continue to provide the applicable coverage for teachers granted a leave for illness in the family, under the provisions of Board Rule 4-34 which restricts the duration of said leave to five school months without extension. Such continued coverage is subject to the provisions of Appendix B.
32-1.1 (b). Effective September 1, 1993, the BOARD shall provide its health care plan to teachers granted a maternity leave of absence under Board Rule 4-37 and other bargaining unit members under Board Rule 4-11 granted a matern-tiy leave of absence for a maximum of five calendar months. Such continued coverage is subject to the provisions of Appendix B.
32-1.2. Effective April 1, 1974, the BOARD shall pay the full premium cost of an increased Major Medical Program which would extend Major Medical benefits from a total amount of $10,000 to a total amount of $25,000 for hospital charges, and from a total amount of $10,000 to a total amount of $25,000 for professional fees.
91
Effective October 1, 1974, the BOARD shall pay the full premium cost of an increased Major Medical Program which would extend Major Medical benefits from a total amount of $25,000 to a total amount of $40,000 for hospital charges, and from a total amount of $25,000 to a total amount of $40,000 for professional fees.
Effective December 1, 1984, the BOARD shall pay the full premium cost of an increased Major Medical Program which would extend Major Medical benefits from a total of $40,000 to a total of $100,000 for hospital charges and from a total amount of $40,000 to a total of $100,000 for professional fees.
Effective September 1, 1987, the BOARD shall pay the full premium cost of an increased Major Medical Program which would extend Major Medical benefits from a total of $100,000 to a total of $200,000 for hospital charges and from a total amount of $100,000 to a total of $200,000 for professional fees.
Effective October 1, 1975, the BOARD shall pay the full premium cost of an increased hospitalization plan which would extend hospital stay from a total of 120 days to a total of 365 days.
Effective November 1, 1979, the Blue Shield program and the Major Medical benefit shall include services rendered by licensed clinical psychologists.
The BOARD agrees to pursue with its insurance carrier the procedures for the implementation of a program wherein Blue Shield benefit applications that are denied in whole or in part by Blue Shield shall automatically be referred to Major Medical for consideration for reimbursement under the provisions of Major Medical coverage. The BOARD further agrees to implement this program as soon as said procedures are finalized, but no later than February 1, 1980.
Effective September 1, 1990, the BOARD shall pay the full premium cost of a Basic Health Plan (Comprehensive Major Medical) and a Preferred Provider Option Plan. The lifetime benefit maximum of the Basic Health Plan (Comprehensive Major Medical) and Preferred Provider Option shall be increased to $1,000,000.
Effective September 1, 1993, the lifetime benefit maximum of the indemnity/preferred provider option (PPO) is limited to $1,000,000.
92
32-1.3. All employee health plans shall include coverage for routine and diagnostic mammography in accordance with the American Cancer Society guidelines. This coverage shall not require payment of a deductible.
32-1.4. The BOARD shall provide benefits in connection with the diagnosis and/or treatment of infertility which are in conformance with guidelines of the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology or in accordance with the Standards of the American Society of Reproductive Medicine.
32-2. The BOARD may change insurance carriers, Health Maintenance Organizations or administrators or self-insure all or any part of the coverage provided for herein if such change does not reduce the level of benefits, and provided any such change is in conformity with the following:
The following provisions shall facilitate the BOARD'S responsibility to administer the plan of benefits which is collectively bargained. The purpose is to maximize the strength of the BOARD on behalf of the employees to purchase aggressively health care under the plan of benefits in the marketplace.
A.	No standing commitment to any carriers, administrators), providers or vendors shall be named within the collective bargaining Agreement.
B.	All commercial relationships can be competitively evaluated, which may include either being competitively bid formally or rigorously evaluated and negotiated without formal bidding, if administratively and/or economically advantageous, and prudent for the Board as fiduciary, subject to all applicable law. The UNION shall be advised of such problems that may be addressed in this manner, appropriately through the Health Care Cost Containment Committee.
C.	The PPO networks can be altered if necessary, should the BOARD re-evaluate the administrative, vendor or provider relationships, or should the full responsibilities of the carrier(s) or administrator(s) be bid, or should the current responsibilities be unbundled and competitively evaluated and subsequently awarded.
D.	Current HMO configurations may be altered to take advantage of administrative prerogatives and fiscal requirements, and characteristics of the marketplace.
93
E.	Reconfigurations of either the PPO institutions or the number of HMOs, under either sections C and D above shall be explicable to the Health Care Cost Containment Committee, and shall be supported by analyses and not be arbitrary.
F.	No reconfiguration of PPO institutions or change in the number or identity of HMOs shall be made except in compliance with the following:
1.	The UNION shall be notified in writing of the intent to change at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the proposed change where circumstances are within the BOARD'S control. In all other cases, the BOARD will provide the maximum notice as is practicable under the circumstances.
2.	The UNION and the BOARD shall meet within five (5) school days of receipt of the notice by the UNION or at such other mutually agreeable date consistent with the parties' desire to expedite such meeting.
3.	The notice referred to shall, at the time the notice is given, provide sufficient information to explain the contemplated action and shall include, at a minimum, but shall not be limited to:
a.	the affected PPO institutions or HMOs
b.	the precise reason(s) the action is being contemplated
c.	the numbers of covered participants (employees and/or dependents) receiving in-patient service from such affected institutions or HMOs at the time the notice is given.
d.	the number of covered participants (employees and/or dependents) receiving in-patient service from such affected institutions or HMOs during the preceding twelve (12) months.
4.	The BOARD shall provide to the UNION all additional relevant information which is reasonably available and shall be responsible for notices to participants.
5.	In the event the parties are unable to resolve a dispute within five (5) school days of the first meeting
94
or such other time as may be mutually agreed upon, the dispute shall be submitted to arbitration pursuant to the provisions of Article 3-5 of the Agreement on an expedited basis.
32-3. Effective January 1, 1998, the BOARD will provide group life insurance in the amount of $10,000 for each member of the bargaining unit, including teachers granted a leave for illness, illness in the family, maternity, or paternity leave, and other members of the bargaining unit on leave for ordinary or duty disability, illness in the family, maternity, or paternity leave. Payment of premium for bargaining unit members on any such leave shall not exceed 25 school months.
32-4. If during the terms of this Agreement there is enacted any federal or state legislation which has a significant impact on the health care program provided for herein, including the cost of such program, either party may by written notice to the other, delivered within sixty (60) calendar days of the enactment of such legislation, reopen negotiations for the sole purpose of negotiating such changes in the health care program as may be warranted by such legislation. If the parties cannot reach agreement on such changes within ninety (90) days of the delivery of such notice, then either party may invoke interest arbitration by providing written notice to the other party and to the American Arbitration Association. In the event such interest arbitration procedures shall be invoked, the arbitrator shall have the authority, but only the authority, to make such changes in Article 32 and in the medical and health care benefits as are warranted by such legislation. Such authority shall include the right to modify the insurance coverage and contributions provided herein.
32-5. Effective September 1, 1993, the BOARD shall provide payment for all medical treatment arising out of job-related accidents or injuries covered under the Illinois Workers' Compensation Act and Occupational Disease Act.
32-6. The BOARD shall provide a preferred provider option (PPO) to the indemnity health plan.
Effective January 1, 1994, the $400 in-patient hospital deductible shall be waived if the employee uses the preferred provider option. The $750 deductible shall be reduced to $250 if the individual employee uses participating hospitals
95
and participating physicians. The 40% co-insurance under the indemnity health plan shall be reduced to 10% if the employee uses the preferred provider option. There shall be a maximum annual out-of-pocket expense for individuals using the preferred provider option of $1,250 rather than the $3,750 provided for in the indemnity health plan. The maximum annual out-of-pocket expense for a couple using said plan shall be $2,500 rather than the $7,500 provided for in the indemnity health plan and a family using said plan shall have an annual out-of-pocket expense maximum of $3,750 rather than the $11,250 provided for in the indemnity health plan. The out-of-pocket limitations shall be calculated on a plan year basis. (Plan years commence September 1 annually during the term of this Agreement.)
32-7. Effective December 15, 1975, the BOARD shall pay the full premium cost of an individual dental plan for each full-time teacher or other member of the bargaining unit.
32-8. Effective August 21, 1999, qualified domestic partners of teachers or other bargaining unit members are entitled to the same benefits as are available to the spouses of teachers or other bargaining unit members.
To be eligible for coverage as qualified domestic partners, teachers or other bargaining unit members must complete and file with the BOARD an affidavit of domestic partnership in which they attest that:
•	they are each other's sole domestic partner, responsible for each other's common welfare; and
•	neither party is married; and
•	the partners are not related by blood closer than would bar marriage in the State of Illinois; and
•	each partner is the same sex and reside at the same residence; and
•	two of the following four conditions exists for the partners:
1.	The partners have been residing together for at least 12 months prior to filing the affidavit of domestic partnership.
2.	The partners have common or joint ownership of a residence.
3.	The partners have at least two of the following arrangements:
96
a)	joint ownership of a motor vehicle;
b)	a joint credit account;
c)	a joint checking account;
d)	a lease for a residence identifying both domestic partners as tenants.
4.	The teacher or other bargaining unit member declares that the domestic partner is identified as a primary beneficiary in the teacher or other bargaining unit member's will.
Any change in the circumstances which have been attested to in the documents qualifying an individual as a domestic partner must be provided to the BOARD within 60 days of said change.
A minimum of 12 months must elapse before a teacher or other bargaining unit member may designate a new domestic partner.
ARTICLE 33 — LEAVES OF ABSENCE
33-1.1. In case of absence exceeding 10 consecutive school days due to personal illness, a full-time-basis (FTB) temporarily certified teacher may apply for and secure a leave of absence without pay, except as provided in the sick pay rule. Such leave shall not exceed five school months unless extended, provided, however, all leaves granted such temporarily certified teachers shall expire at the end of June with the close of the school term with the expiration of their temporary certificates.
33-1.2. In the event that a full-time-basis (FTB) teacher receives another certificate, said full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher will be eligible to apply for and secure another leave of absence upon presentation of proof establishing continued serious personal illness. Said extension will be limited to five school months, and the teacher must pass a health examination by a medical examiner of the BOARD before returning to teaching.
33-1.3. The replacement of a full-time-basis (FTB) temporarily certified teacher by a regularly certified teacher or by another temporarily certified teacher in the position occupied by said full-time-basis (FTB) teacher shall not affect the
97
leave as far as eligibility for sick leave pay is concerned.
33-1.4. Leaves of absence may also be granted, without pay, except as provided in the sick pay rule, to any full-time-basis (FTB) temporarily certified teacher who shall file a written request for leave because of the serious illness of a member of the immediate family, that is, one who resides with or is supported by such teacher. Such leaves may not exceed five school months within two consecutive school years, provided, further, that such leaves shall automatically expire with the expiration of their temporary certificates at the end of June with the close of the school term.
33-2. Personal illness leaves may be extended to a maximum of 25 school months for regularly appointed teachers.
33-3. In addition to the provisions of Board Rule 4-8 (d), whenever the absence of a teacher or other bargaining unit member is caused by the death of the teacher's parent, spouse, child, brother or sister, such employee shall be paid the basic salary for the number of days absent from the date of death to the date the employee returns to work provided that the number of days shall not exceed 10 days with the last five being applied against accumulated allowable sick leave.
33-4. When a leave has been granted for a regularly appointed teacher for travel or study, the absence shall not be construed as a break in service so far as seniority is concerned, and the position shall be held open as provided by Board Rule 4-31.
33-5. Teachers or other bargaining unit members, including any selected by the UNION, may be granted leave with the approval of the General Superintendent and with authorization from the BOARD to attend, without loss of salary, conferences, meetings, workshops, or conventions of professional organizations which in the judgment of the General Superintendent are beneficial or related to the work of the schools, or a commencement exercise at which a degree is being conferred on the employee. Such leave to attend commencement exercise shall be limited to one day.
33-5.1. When a teacher or other bargaining unit member applies for a leave under the provisions of Board Rule 4-32, pertaining to leave to attend conferences, the application
98
shall be accompanied by a self-addressed, number 10 size, stamped envelope. The Department of Personnel shall provide written notification of the approval or disapproval of said leave to the applicant within 25 school days after the receipt of the application by the Department of Personnel.
33-5.2. Teachers or other bargaining unit members requesting leaves to attend educational conferences, meetings, or conventions, or to receive university degrees must file proper application prior to deadline dates established by the Department of Personnel in an annual personnel bulletin.
33-6. In case of absence exceeding ten (10) consecutive school days due to the birth of a child or approaching maternity, a teacher may apply for and secure maternity (or paternity) leave by filing a written application therefor.
A maternity leave taken subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement shall be for a period of not more than four years from the date on which such leave becomes effective. Continuous, successive maternity leaves shall not exceed eight years. The teacher's position shall be held open during the first consecutive ten school months of the maternity leave or to the end of the semester immediately following said ten months upon the written request of the teacher for such an extension. Upon the expiration of such period of time, if the teacher thereafter remains on maternity leave, the teacher's position shall be declared vacant, provided, however, that upon reporting for duty at the expiration of maternity leave, the teacher then shall be eligible for immediate assignment to a vacant position pursuant to the procedures of Article 423 of this Agreement. The teacher shall be placed at the top of the transfer list to return to the teacher's former school if the teacher so desires.
A teacher whose maternity leave expires after the first week of a school term or mid-term may have said leave extended, to the first day of the following semester, provided said teacher applies in writing for this extension at least two weeks before the present leave expires.
33-6.1. Paternity Leave.
(a)	Effective January 1, 1974, a member of the teaching force whose legal spouse gives birth to an offspring may
99
request paternity leave.
(b)	In case of absence exceeding 10 consecutive school days due to the birth of an offspring, a male teacher may apply for and secure paternity leave by filing a written application therefor. The General Superintendent of Schools shall have authority, subject to the approval of the Board of Education, to grant paternity leave. A paternity leave taken subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement shall be for a period of not more than four years from the date on which such leave becomes effective. Continuous paternity leaves shall not exceed eight years. The teacher's position shall be held open during the first period of ten successive school months of paternity leave or to the end of the semester immediately following said ten months upon the written request of the teacher for such extension. Upon the expiration of such period of time, if the teacher thereafter does not return, the teacher's position shall be declared vacant, provided, however, that upon reporting for duty at the expiration of the paternity leave, the teacher shall be eligible for immediate assignment to a vacant position pursuant to the procedures of Article 42-3 of this Agreement. The teacher shall be placed at the top of the transfer list to return to the teacher's former school if the teacher so desires. Paternity leave may be terminated before the expiration of ten successive school months upon the written request of the teacher.
(c)	If a married male teacher accepts for adoption a child less than five years old, then such teacher shall be eligible for paternity leave pursuant to this article under the same terms and conditions as in the case of a natural born child. If the child is released and adoption not completed, then leave must be terminated within five school days from the date of release.
(d)	If a single male teacher accepts for adoption a child less than five years old, then such teacher shall be eligible for paternity leave pursuant to paragraph (c), Sec. 4-37 of the Rules of the Board of Education.
(e)	A teacher whose paternity leave expires after the first week of a school term or mid-term may have said leave extended, to the first day of the following semester, provided said teacher applies in writing for this extension at least two weeks before the present leave expires.
100
33-6.2. The provisions of Board Rule 4-37(c) pertaining to adoption shall be amended to provide that teachers shall be eligible to apply for maternity leave if they accept for adoption a child less than five years of age.
The provisions of Board Rule 4-36.1 pertaining to adoption shall be amended to provide that teachers shall be eligible to apply for paternity leave if they accept for adoption a child less than five years of age.
33-6.3. A teacher on maternity or paternity leave may be permitted to serve as a day-to-day substitute at the daily rate paid such a substitute teacher, except when a teacher granted such a leave shall be eligible for sick pay. A teacher so employed as a day-to-day substitute will not be permitted to count such employment to extend the leave nor for purposes of salary adjustment.
33-7. All full-time teachers and other full-time employee members of the bargaining unit (except temporary teachers employed on a part-time hourly or day-to-day basis) shall be granted three school days leave for personal business during each calendar year without loss of pay or deduction from sick leave on the basis of and during the period set up for their positions in the budget consistent with Board Rule 4-35, except that no personal business day may be taken the first week of school or the last week of school, and effective September 1, 1970, the day before or the day after a school holiday unless it is used to attend the graduation exercise of a child or spouse, or for a religious holiday, or unless an emergency exists and proof of which is filed with the employee's supervisor immediately upon return. All teachers and other bargaining unit members with less than one year's experience in the Chicago public schools shall receive personal business leave according to this formula: Those beginning employment between January 1 and March 31, 3 days; between April 1 and September 30, 2 days; between October 1 and November 30, 1 day; and between December 1 and December 31,0 days.
Personal business is defined as any business that cannot be conducted at a time not in conflict with the employee's regular school day, an emergency over which the employee has no control which requires immediate attention, and the observance of religious obligations.
101
Notice of such leave shall be given as far in advance as possible. In giving notice of such leave or immediately upon return to school, if the leave was an emergency, the employee shall complete the form required by the BOARD but shall not be required to give explanation other than that the leave was taken for one of the specific reasons indicated in this section except as above required. Effective September 1, 1983, at no time shall three personal business days be taken in succession.
Nothing herein shall affect the right of such employee to follow the present policy in respect to religious holidays. Personal business days may not be used while a member of the bargaining unit is on sick leave. Personal business days that are unused at the end of the calendar year may be added to the employee's accumulated sick leave days up to the maximum provided.
33-7.1. New full-time teachers and new full-time members of the bargaining unit shall complete a 60-school day waiting period in order to be eligible for a personal business day (for any reason other than a religious holiday). This provision shall not be applicable to teachers or other bargaining unit members who have been granted personal business days in the preceding school year and have not terminated their services.
33-8. Effective September 1, 1987, the number of unused sick leave days permitted to accumulate to the credit of a teacher or other bargaining unit member shall be 244. Effective September 1, 1990, the number of unused sick days permitted to accumulate to the credit of a teacher or other bargaining unit member shall be 255. Effective September 1, 1991, the number of accumulated unused sick days permitted shall be 265, and effective September 1, 1992, the number of accumulated unused sick days permitted shall be 275.
Effective August 21, 1999, the number of accumulated unused sick days permitted shall be 285; effective August 17, 2000, the number of accumulated unused sick days permitted shall be 295; effective August 18, 2001, the number of accumulated unused sick days permitted shall be 305; and effective August 19, 2002, the number of accumulated unused sick days permitted shall be 315. The total number of unused sick leave days shall appear on the salary check stubs of all bargaining unit members.
102
33-8.1. New full-time teachers and new full-time members of the bargaining unit shall complete a 60 school day waiting period in order to be eligible for sick days pay. This provision shall not be applicable to teachers or other bargaining unit members who have been granted sick days in the preceding school year and have not terminated their services.
33-9. Effective February, 1974, teachers on extended-day programs, including 8-hour day positions and regularly scheduled classes authorized on an overtime basis (but not including classes established after regular school hours to supplement the regular program, such as after-school classes in reading and arithmetic, driver training programs, evening school programs, and social center programs), will be entitled to extended-day pay when absent if entitled to sick pay for the normal school day under the provisions of Board Rule 4-8.
33-10. Except in circumstances beyond the teacher's control, each teacher who has been absent, or the teacher's designee, shall notify the principal of his or her return by 2:00 p.m. of the day prior to said return.
33-11. Any member of the bargaining unit resigning or leaving the system for any reason, who has exhausted allowable sick leave time for that school year beyond the rate of one day for each month served up to and including the last day of service will have the bargaining unit member's last salary check adjusted for the overpaid days.
33-12. Regularly appointed teachers and regularly certified career service members of the bargaining unit who are on a personal illness leave due to an injury which is covered by the Workers' Compensation Act shall not have their service interrupted for salary purposes, nor shall their absence be construed as a break in service.
33-13. In a case of absence exceeding 10 consecutive school days due to personal illness, a full-time regularly appointed teacher shall apply for and secure a personal illness leave of absence pursuant to the provisions of Section 4-33 of the Rules of the Board of Education. Such leave shall not exceed 10 school months nor be in excess of a total of 10 school months in any 2 consecutive school years. The
103
teacher's position shall be held open for 10 school months or to the end of the semester immediately following said 10 school months upon the written request of the teacher for such extension. Thereafter, the position shall be declared vacant but the teacher, upon reporting for duty at the expiration of such extended leave, shall be eligible for immediate assignment pursuant to the procedures of Article 42-3 of this Agreement. The teacher shall be placed at the top of the transfer list to return to the teacher's former school if the teacher so desires.
A teacher whose personal illness leave expires after the first week of a school term or mid-term, may have said leave extended to the first day of the following semester, provided said teacher applies in writing for this extension at least two weeks before the present leave expires.
33-14. There shall be no moratorium on sabbatical leaves of absence during the term of this Agreement.
33-15. In the case of a teacher or other bargaining unit member whose continued illness extends beyond the amount of sick leave earned and accumulated, the Human Resources Department may authorize extended leave with pay.
A request for extended sick leave must be directed to the Human Resources Director by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Procurement Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Fiscal Officer, the Attorney, or the Chiefs of Staff to the CEO or to the BOARD. Such request shall be submitted in the manner designated by the Human Resources Director who shall develop standards to ensure that a fair and equitable treatment of all employees is maintained with respect to extended sick leave.
Extended sick leave shall be granted at the discretion of the Human Resources Director whose decision shall not be subject to further review.
ARTICLE 34	— PERSONNEL FILES: BOARD OF EDUCATION
34-1. No anonymous letter or materials shall be placed in the teacher's or other bargaining unit member's file or be used in any proceeding or given any credibility anywhere in the BOARD.
104
34-2. Upon written request by the teacher or other bargaining unit member, the employee shall be permitted to examine his or her personnel file in the presence of a BOARD representative. Such requests shall not be honored during the two weeks prior to the opening of the school term in September nor during the first two weeks of the school term, due to the work load of the Bureau of Teacher Personnel at these particulartimes.
34-3. No matters pertaining to the grievance procedure shall be included in the teacher's or other bargaining unit member's personnel file unless so requested by the employee. All matters pertaining to a grievance shall be treated as confidential material by the BOARD and shall not be consulted in decisions regarding re-employment, promotion, assignment, or transfer.
34-4. No derogatory statement about a teacher originating outside of the Chicago public school system shall be placed in the teacher's personnel file, provided, further, that any official report or statement originating within the Chicago public school system may be placed in the teacher's personnel file only if the teacher is sent a dated copy thereof at the same time. The teacher may respond and such response shall be attached to the filed copy.
34-4.1. No derogatory statement about a career service member of the bargaining unit originating outside the Chicago public school system shall be filed by the Bureau of Career Service Personnel, provided further, that any official report or statement originating within the Chicago public school system may be filed by the Bureau of Career Service Personnel only if the employee is sent a dated copy thereof at the same time. The career service bargaining unit member may respond and such response shall be attached to the filed copy.
34-5. No material shall be used in any formal action against any bargaining unit member, when summoned to a conference in the Department of Personnel, which has not been disclosed to the bargaining unit member in advance of said conference. It is further understood that any material to be used by the UNION or bargaining unit member shall be presented to the BOARD in the same manner.
105
34-5.1. In accordance with present practice, a teacher shall be permitted to submit materials which relate to the teacher's service in the Chicago public school system for inclusion in the teacher's personnel file.
34-5.2. Teachers or other members of the bargaining unit summoned to the Office of the Assistant Superintendent for Personnel or the Assistant Superintendent's designee for formal action which could be adverse, shall be given advance notification as to the subject of the conference and shall have the option of having a UNION representative present and representing the teacher. The bargaining unit member shall be responsible for notifying the UNION.
The above procedure shall not apply to unsatisfactory evaluation conferences which are covered under Article 39 of this Agreement.
34-5.3. Teachers and other members of the bargaining unit who are requested to attend a conference with a parent who is accompanied by a representative of a community organization shall be given advance notification as to the subject of the conference and may have the option to have a UNION field representative present. The bargaining unit member shall be responsible for notifying the UNION.
Nothing herein shall preclude a parent's being accompanied to a school conference by a person who will serve as an interpreter if a language barrier exists and nothing herein shall preclude a parent's being accompanied by another member of the family. In such situations the option to have a UNION field representative present shall not apply.
34-6. No derogatory statement about a day-to-day substitute teacher originating outside of the Chicago public school system shall be placed in the day-to-day substitute's personnel file, provided, further, that any official report or statement originating within the Chicago public school system may be placed in the day-to-day substitute's personnel file only if the day-to-day substitute is sent a dated copy thereof at the same time. The day-to-day substitute may respond and such response shall be attached to the filed copy.
ARTICLE 35	— PROMOTIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL OPPORTUNITIES
35-1. Notice of all promotional and professional opportuni
106
ties occurring during the school year, including those filled by teachers on loan, shall be posted in all school offices at least 10 days and, when practical, 20 days prior to the closing date for applications. In the event such opportunities arise outside the school term, the BOARD shall notify the UNION and advertise (1) in the Personnel Bulletin, (2) on the Chicago Public Schools' website, and (3) on the Chicago Public Schools' 24-hour jobs hotline.
35-2. The posting shall include a description of the duties of the positions; the qualifications required of persons applying for the position; the location of the position, if known; and the salary range of the position.
35-3. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall acknowledge promptly in writing the receipt of each application, except for summer schools, provided that applicants furnish a stamped, self-addressed, #10 size envelope.
35-4. Applicants for promotional opportunities who are interviewed by an Interview Committee shall furnish the Interview Committee with a stamped, self-addressed, #10 size envelope which shall be used by the Department of Personnel to notify the applicant when the position has been filled.
35-5. Qualified teachers holding a regular kindergarten-primary certificate may also apply for positions as reading clinic teachers when such positions are to be staffed.
35-6. Any ancillary teaching position to be opened for the first time at the local school level shall be reported to the faculty by the principal. Within three school days thereafter, any teacher may make written application to the principal indicating said teacher's qualifications for said position. This procedure shall not apply to positions covered under the provisions of Article 35-1 of this Agreement and further must be in accordance with the Plan for the Implementation of the Provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
35-7. Any otherwise qualified and certified career service member of the bargaining unit shall be eligible to apply for any advertised position which does not require teaching duties.
35-8. When a teacher or other bargaining unit member makes formal application for a promotional or professional
107
opportunity including positions at reclassified or redesignated schools, the applicant's most recent efficiency rating shall be part of the criteria. The applicant's prior two efficiency ratings shall be considered if the most recent efficiency rating was the teacher's initial evaluation by the principal.
ARTICLE 36	— SALARIES
36-1. The annual salaries of all teachers and the prorated monthly segments thereof are set forth in the teacher salary schedules attached hereto as Appendix A. Such schedules and all other provisions governing compensation and remuneration contained in Appendix A are hereby made a part of this Agreement.
36-1.1. Effective September 1, 1984 and thereafter, the UNION agrees that at least 50% of regularly appointed teachers shall be paid their 39-week annual salary (Appendix 1A) prorated over 52 weeks in 26 bi-weekly payments. Teachers requesting to be paid in this manner must submit proper application to the principal on or before June 15, 1984. Said payroll status shall remain in effect throughout the 1984-85 fiscal year.
If less than 50% of the regularly appointed teachers elect to apply for the aforesaid change in payroll status, the UNION agrees that the number of teachers necessary to reach 50% of the regularly appointed teaching force shall be placed in the 52-week payment program. Said teachers shall be those teachers with the least amount of continuous service in the Chicago public schools.
Effective November 5, 1990, the UNION agrees that at least 75% of all full-time teachers shall be paid their 39-week annual salary (Appendix 1A) prorated over 52 weeks in 26 bi-weekly payments. All full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teachers and all regularly appointed teachers upon their original appointment shall be placed in the 52-week payment program. All other regularly appointed teachers requesting to be paid in this manner must submit proper application to the principal on or before June 1. These applications shall be distributed on or about May 1.
On June 10, the BOARD shall inform the UNION of the estimated date of appointment for full-time teachers who may be placed involuntarily into the 52-week payment program. The
108
UNION shall place this information in the June issue of the Chicago Union Teacher.
If less than 75% of all full-time teachers elect to apply for the aforesaid change in payroll status, the UNION agrees that the number of full-time teachers necessary to reach 75% of all full-time teachers shall be placed in the 52-week payment program. Said teachers shall be those teachers with the least amount of continuous service within the Chicago public schools.
Effective August 21, 1999 and thereafter, the UNION agrees that 85% of all full-time teachers shall be paid their 40-week annual salary (Appendix 1A) prorated over 52 weeks in 26 bi-weekly payments. All full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teachers and all regularly appointed teachers upon their original appointment shall be placed in the 52-week payment program. All other regularly appointed teachers requesting to be paid in this manner must submit proper application to the principal on or before June 1 prior to the next school year. These applications shall be distributed on or about May 1.
On June 10, the BOARD shall inform the UNION of the estimated date of appointment for regularly appointed teachers who may be placed involuntarily into the 52-week payment program for the following school year. The UNION shall place this information in the June issue of the Chicago Union Teacher.
If less than 85% of all full-time teachers elect to apply for the aforesaid change in payroll status, the UNION agrees that the number of full-time teachers necessary to reach 85% of all full-time teachers shall be placed in the 52-week payment program. Said teachers shall be those teachers with the least amount of continuous service within the Chicago public schools.
A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established to hear and decide appeals only on the basis of circumstances that create hardships for continuous participation in the extended pay plan for teachers.
Hardship appeals shall be conducted within 15 school days following the receipt of the request. Hardships granted for the circumstances listed above shall be expedited within 15 school days following the date of the hearing. The lump-sum monies shall be paid to the employee within two pay periods
109
after the appeal is granted. Teachers granted hardship appeals shall not be involuntarily returned to the extended pay plan in the following school year.
36-2. The annual salaries of all career service employees in the bargaining unit and the prorated monthly segments thereof are set forth in the career service salary schedules hereto attached in Appendix A. Such schedules and all other provisions governing compensation and remuneration contained in Appendix A are hereby made a part of this Agreement.
36-2.1. Effective September 1, 1984 and thereafter, the UNION agrees that at least 50% of certified career service members of the bargaining unit shall be paid their 39-week annual salary (Appendix A24, A25, A26, A27, A27-1.1 and A28) prorated over 52 weeks in 26 bi-weekly payments. Certified career service members of the bargaining unit requesting to be paid in this manner must submit proper application to the principal on or before June 15, 1984. Said payroll status shall remain in effect throughout the 1984-85 fiscal year.
If less than 50% of the certified career service members of the bargaining unit elect to apply for the aforesaid change in payroll status, the UNION agrees that the number of certified career service members of the bargaining unit necessary to reach 50% shall be placed in the 52-week payment program. Said certified career service members of the bargaining unit shall be those members with the least amount of continuous service within their career service job title classification within the Chicago public schools.
Effective November 5, 1990, the UNION agrees that at least 75% of all full-time career service members of the bargaining unit shall be paid their 39-week annual salary (Appendix A24, A25, A26, A27, and A28) prorated over 52 weeks in 26 bi-weekly payments. All full-time provisional career service members of the bargaining unit and all certified career service members of the bargaining unit upon their date of certification shall be placed in the 52-week payment program. All other certified career service members of the bargaining unit requesting to be paid in this manner must submit proper application to the principal on or before June 1. These applications ahll be distributed on or about May 1.
On June 10, the BOARD shall inform the UNION of the esti
110
mated date of appointment for career service members of the bargaining unit who may be placed involuntarily into the 52-week payment program. The UNION shall place this information in the June issue of the Chicago Union Teacher.
If less than 75% of full-time career service members of the bargaining unit elect to apply for the aforesaid change in payroll status, the UNION agrees that the number of full-time career service members of the bargaining unit necessary to reach 75% shall be placed in the 52-week payment program. Said full-time career service members of the bargaining unit shall be those members with the least amount of continuous service within the Chicago public schools.
Effective August 21, 1999 and thereafter, the UNION agrees that 85% of all full-time career service members of the bargaining unit shall be paid their 40-week annual salary (Appendix A24, A25, A26, A27, A28, A29, A30, A31, and A32) prorated over 52 weeks in 26 bi-weekly payments. All fulltime provisional career service members of the bargaining unit and all certified career service members of the bargaining unit upon their date of certification shall be placed in the 52-week payment program. All other certified career service members of the bargaining unit requesting to be paid in this manner must submit proper application to the principal on or before June 1 prior to the next school year. These applications shall be distributed on or about May 1.
On June 10, the BOARD shall inform the UNION of the estimated date of appointment for career service members of the bargaining unit who may be placed involuntarily into the 52-week payment program for the following school year. The UNION shall place this information in the June issue of the Chicago Union Teacher.
If less than 85% of full-time career service members of the bargaining unit elect to apply for the aforesaid change in payroll status, the UNION agrees that the number of full-time career service members of the bargaining unit necessary to reach 85% shall be placed in the 52-week payment program. Said full-time career service members of the bargaining unit shall be those members with the least amount of continuous service within the Chicago public schools.
A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established to hear and decide appeals only on the basis of circumstances that create hardships for continuing participation in the ex
111
tended pay plan for career service members of the bargaining unit.
Hardship appeals shall be conducted within 15 school days following the receipt of the request. Hardships granted for the circumstances listed above shall be expedited within 15 school days following the date of the hearing. The lump-sum monies shall be paid to the employee within two pay periods after the appeal is granted. Career service members of the bargaining unit granted hardship appeals shall not be involuntarily returned to the extended pay plan in the following school year.
36-3. In accordance with the provisions of the School Code of Illinois, salary schedules and compensatory remuneration provisions in the 1999-2000 Agreement shall be subject to the terms, provisions, and conditions of appropriations therefore contained in the fiscal 1999-2000 annual and supplemental school budgets for the school year 1999-2000, and shall be subject to the terms, provisions, and conditions of appropriations therefore contained in the fiscal 2000-2001 annual and supplemental school budgets for the 2000-2001 school year, and shall be subject to the terms, provisions, and conditions of appropriations therefore contained in the fiscal 2001-2002 annual and supplemental school budgets for the school year 2001-2002, and shall be subject to the terms, provisions, and conditions of appropriations therefore contained in the fiscal 2002-2003 annual and supplemental school budgets for the school year 2002-2003.
36-3.1. The BOARD shall pick up for each teacher and other members of the bargaining unit a sum equal to 7 percent of the amount due each such employee as set forth in Article 27-1.1. of this Agreement and in the annual salary schedules set forth in Appendix A (except A3B, A4, A7, A18, and A21) of this Agreement for the Public School Teachers' Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago and the Municipal Employees', Officers', and Officials' Annuity and Benefit Fund to be applied to the retirement account of each such employee (not the survivors' annuity account).
The employee shall have no right or claim to the funds so picked up, except as they may subsequently become available upon retirement or resignation from the Public School Teachers' Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago and the Municipal Employees', Officers', and Officials' Annuity and
112
Benefit Fund, or as provided under the laws governing the above two pension funds.
The BOARD does not warrant that the payments made by the BOARD for the employees as set forth above are permissible prior to January 1, 1982, or that any of such payments are excludable from the employees' gross wages, and as such, the UNION and each individual bargaining unit member shall and does hereby agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Board of Education, its members, officers, agents and employees from and against any and all claims, liability by reason of payments of said contributions to the Public School Teachers' Pension and Retirement Fund of Chicago and the Municipal Employees', Officers', and Officials' Annuity and Benefit Fund made pursuant to the provisions of this article. This pension pick-up will not constitute a continuing element of compensation or benefit beyond fiscal year 2003.
All terms and conditions of employment for future years, including without limitations, salaries, benefits, pension pick-up and staffing formulas, are the subject of negotiation for those years.
36-3.2. The parties recognize that their agreement to extend the 7% pension pick-up to certain after-school programs and summer school, Article 36-3.1, as amended, is contingent upon enactment of legislation to amend 40 ILCS 5/17-131.
In the event the appropriate legislation is not enacted, the parties agree to negotiate an alternative benefit equivalent in cost to the extension of the 7% pension pick-up to certain after-school and summer school programs, as provided by Article 36-3.1, as amended. The parties agree that the cost of this benefit is approximately $5.4 million per annum.
The parties further agree to use their best efforts to assure that legislation amending 40 ILCS 5/17-131 is enacted during this Agreement.
36-3.3. By March 31, 1999, the BOARD will adopt a resolution providing for an early retirement without discount program under Section 17-116.1 of the Illinois Pension Code for the period beginning July 1, 1999 and ending June 30, 2000 (40 ILCS 5/17-116.1).
In order to be eligible for the program, teachers must be between the ages of 55 and 59, inclusive, and have a minimum
113
of 20 years of creditable service, but less than 35 years of service, to the BOARD immediately preceding retirement.
Under the program, eligible teachers retiring on or after July 1, 1999 and on or before June 30, 2000 and within six months of the last day of teaching for which retirement contributions were required may elect at the time of application for retirement to make a one-time employee contribution to the Pension Fund and thereby avoid the early retirement reduction in allowance specified in paragraph (4) of Section 17116. The exercise of this election shall obligate the BOARD to also make a one-time non-refundable contribution to the Pension Fund (40 ILCS 5/17-116.1 [b]). The employee and BOARD contributions shall be in accordance with Section 17-116.1 .(d) of the Illinois Pension Code (40 ILCS 5/17-116.1[d]).
The number of teachers who may retire under this program during the period July 1, 1999 through June 30, 2000 shall not exceed 200 of those eligible. If the number of teachers who submit the application and election exceed the cap, the right to participate in this program shall be allocated among those applying on the basis of seniority in the service of the BOARD (40 ILCS 5/17-116.1[f]).
36-3.4. Commencing with the Fiscal Year 2000, the additional pension contribution of teachers as a result of the “2.2%” legislation shall be made on a pre-tax basis pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 414(h). For the purposes of Internal Revenue Code Section 414(h), such contributions will be treated as employer contributions and it is recognized that employees do not have the option to receive such contributions in cash.
This agreement is for the purpose of making such additional pension contribution pre-tax for the employee. Contributions will be deducted from employees' salary and do not constitute an additional “pick up” under Section 36-3.1 of the Agreement between the Board and the Union.
36-4. A. Salary step adjustments based on previous teaching experience in the Chicago public schools shall be made no later than 45 days from the date proper claim is received in Salary Administration, Office of Labor Relations.
B.	Salary step adjustments based on previous teaching experience outside the Chicago public schools shall be made
114
no later than 45 days from the date proper claim and documentary proof verifying employment are received in Salary Administration, Office of Labor Relations.
C.	Salary lane placement adjustments for Lane II (master's degree) and Lane VI (doctoral degree) shall be made no later than 45 days from the date proper claim and official transcript certifying completion of all degree requirements are received in Salary Administration, Office of Labor Relations.
D.	Salary lane placement adjustments for Lane III (15 hours of graduate study beyond the Master's degree) Lane IV (30 hours of graduate study beyond the Master's degree), and Lane V (45 hours of graduate study beyond the Master's degree), shall be made no later than 45 days from the date proper claim and official transcripts verifying successful completion of all course work for the 15, 30, or 45 hours beyond the Master's degree are received in Salary Administration, Office of Labor Relations.
36-5. In accordance with established policy and procedures, the full burden of responsibility for applying for and submitting claims for adjustment and for filing the necessary documentary proof with Salary Administration, to substantiate such claims for adjustment of teacher salaries as provided in Board Rule 4-28, shall rest with the teacher.
36-5.1. Salary Administration, Office of Labor Relations, shall acknowledge, in writing, the receipt of each claim within 25 days and shall note any deficiency in said claim if at the time the claim is made, the teacher has provided Salary Administration with a stamped, self-addressed envelope.
36-6. Whenever a bargaining unit member's two week pay would normally fall on the Friday following Thanksgiving, checks shall be issued and distributed on the Wednesday prior to Thanksgiving. Whenever a bargaining unit member's two week pay would normally fall on a non-work or non-attendance day, checks shall be issued and distributed on the day immediately preceding the attendance or work day.
36-7. Any regularly appointed teacher or full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher who makes proper application and is approved for placement on Lane II through Lane VI of the teachers' salary schedule, shall be granted a bonus adjustment if the teacher continues in full-time employment, based
115
on the following annual increments which shall be paid on a payroll-by-payroll period basis:
a)	During the first year following advancement to a salary lane beyond the Bachelor's degree................$1200
b)	During the second year following advancement to a salary lane beyond the Bachelor's degree.........$1200
c)	During the third year following advancement to a salary lane beyond the Bachelor's degree................$1200
d)	During the fourth year following advancement to a salary lane beyond the Bachelor's degree................$1200
e)	During the fifth year following advancement to a salary lane beyond the Bachelor's degree................$1200
If the teacher becomes eligible for further lane advancement on the salary schedule during the five-year cycle, and submits proper application and documentation for said advancement to the Bureau of Teacher Personnel, a new five-year cycle shall commence with the next school year on the effective date of lane advancement.
A teacher shall be eligible for only one bonus adjustment increment during any payroll period of a school year.
In order to be eligible for said bonus adjustment on September 1, 1990, all requirements for advancement to Lane II through Lane VI of the teachers' salary schedule must have been completed by the teacher during the 1990 second semester or the 1990 third (spring) quarter on the 1990 summer session of a regionally accredited college or university, or the Bureau of Staff Development of the BOARD.
36-7.1. The completion date for the fifteen (15), thirty (30), or forty-five (45) semester hours of approved graduate credit beyond the Master's degree shall be determined by the regionally accredited college or university, or the Bureau of Staff Development of the BOARD.
36-7.2. Except as provided below in this Article, the provisions of Article 36-7 are suspended during the term of the 1999-2003 Agreement.
A teacher who was being paid a bonus under the provisions of Article 36-7 of the 1990-93 Agreement shall continue to receive his or her bonus until such time as he or she has re
116
ceived the $6,000 over five years to which he or she is entitled, if the teacher continues in full-time employment with the BOARD as a teacher.
Any bonus program effective subsequent to September 1, 1993 shall be subject to discussions between the BOARD and the UNION.
ARTICLE 37	— UNUSED SICK PAY
37-1. Teachers compulsorily retired on reaching their sixty-fifth birthday during the 1967-68 school year or retired at any time between September 1967 and August 31, 1968, because of disability under the provisions of the Chicago Public School Teachers Pension and Retirement Fund Act, shall receive pay equivalent to one-third of their accumulated sick days. Teachers compulsorily retired upon reaching their sixty-fifth birthday during the 1968-69 school year or thereafter, or who retire on September 1, 1968, or thereafter, because of disability under the provisions of the Chicago Public School Teachers Pension and Retirement Fund Act, shall receive pay equivalent to one-half of their accumulated sick days.
Effective January 1, 1974, teachers who are compulsorily retired on reaching their sixty-fifth birthday shall receive unused sick days pay equivalent to 50% of their accumulated sick days.
Effective January 1, 1974, teachers who retire after 35 years of service shall receive unused sick days pay equivalent to 50% of their accumulated sick days.
Teachers entitled to pay hereunder and who are re-employed as emeritus teachers, after compulsory retirement, shall not be entitled to any other credit for sick days accumulated prior to their retirement and said accumulated sick days shall be cancelled.
All other members of the bargaining unit 65 years of age or over who elected to terminate their employment with the BOARD between September 1967 and August 31, 1968, shall receive pay equivalent to one-third of their accumulated sick days. All of said other members of the bargaining unit 65 years of age or over who elect to terminate their employment with the BOARD on September 1, 1968, or thereafter, shall
117
receive pay equivalent to one-half of their accumulated sick days.
Effective January 1, 1974, all other members of the bargaining unit who elect to retire after 35 years of service or who are compulsorily retired on January 1, 1974, or thereafter, shall receive unused sick days pay equivalent to 50% of their accumulated sick days.
Effective January 1, 1986, teachers or other members of the bargaining unit with 20 to 34 years of service who elect to retire after reaching their 60th birthday and who have 60 or more unused sick days accumulated shall receive unused sick days pay equivalent to 50% of their accumulated sick days.
Effective September 1, 1990, teachers or other bargaining unit members who retire on reaching their 65th birthday shall receive unused sick days pay equivalent to 75% of their accumulated sick days.
Effective September 1, 1990, teachers or other members of the bargaining unit who retire after 35 years of service shall receive unused sick days pay equivalent to 75% of their accumulated sick days.
Effective September 1, 1990, teachers or other members of the bargaining unit with 20 to 34 years of service who elect to retire after reaching their 60th birthday and who have 40 or more unused sick days accumulated, shall receive unused sick days pay equivalent to 75% of their accumulated sick days.
Effective September 1, 1992, teachers or other bargaining unit members who retire on reaching their 65th birthday shall receive unused sick days pay equivalent to 85% of their accumulated sick days.
Effective July 1, 1999, teachers or other members of the bargaining unit who retire at 34 years of service shall receive unused sick days pay equivalent to 100% of their accumulated sick days.
Effective July 1, 1999, teachers or other members of the bargaining unit with 20 to 33 years of service who elect to retire after reaching their 58th birthday, and who have 40 or more unused sick days accumulated, shall receive unused sick days pay equivalent to 90% of their accumulated sick days.
118
37-2. Effective September 5, 1974, teachers or other members of the bargaining unit whose 65th birthday occurs after regular school closes in June but before it reopens in September may be considered compulsorily retired if otherwise qualified when school closes in June for purposes of their electing to receive that portion of unused sick pay to which they may be entitled under the provisions of Article 37-1 of this Agreement.
37-3. Effective October 1, 1974, in the event a teacher or other member of the bargaining unit has unused sick days at the time of death, the spouse or estate of the deceased shall be entitled to apply for pay equivalent to 50% of his accumulated unused sick days. This benefit is effective once the teacher or other member of the bargaining unit has accumulated 40 or more unused sick days.
Effective September 1, 1990, in the event a teacher or other member of the bargaining unit has unused sick days at the time of death, the spouse or estate of the deceased shall be entitled to apply for pay equivalent to 75% of the employee's accumulated unused sick days. This benefit is effective once the teacher or other member of the bargaining unit has accumulated 40 or more unused sick days.
Effective September 1, 1992, in the event a teacher or other member of the bargaining unit has unused sick days at the time of death, the spouse or estate of the deceased shall be entitled to apply for pay equivalent to 85% of the employee's accumulated unused sick days. This benefit is effective once the teacher or other member of the bargaining unit has accumulated 40 or more unused sick days.
Effective July 1, 1999, in the event a teacher or other member of the bargaining unit has unused sick days at the time of death, the spouse or estate of the deceased shall be entitled to apply for pay equivalent to 100% of the employee's accumulated unused sick days. This benefit is effective once the teacher or other member of the bargaining unit has accumulated 40 or more unused sick days.
ARTICLE 38	— TEACHER ASSIGNMENT PROCEDURE
38-1. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall continue to appoint teachers from the appropriate eligible list with the proviso that until June 30, 2003, true vacancies which re
119
quire an additional endorsement shall be filled by the appointment of teachers presently on the applicable eligible list who have the appropriate endorsement from the Bureau of Teacher Personnel. Said appointments shall be made so that they will assure that the racial compositions, experience and educational training of each school's faculty more nearly approaches the system-wide proportions.
Any appointment made pursuant to this Article 38-1 shall not constitute a violation of any other provision of this Agreement. Prior to the filing of any grievance under this provision, the matter shall be reviewed by the UNION with the Director of the Office of Labor Relations.
38-1.1. Assignment of teachers to adult education centers shall follow the procedures in Article 38-1 of this Agreement except that teachers with prior satisfactory full-time adult education teaching experience of at least one full school year be given preference in assignment to such centers provided said assignment is not in conflict with the Plan to Integrate Faculties and Equalize Per Pupil Costs.
38-2. The UNION and the BOARD will work cooperatively to develop and implement policies with respect to the assignment of teachers in such a manner as to lead to the achievement of representative racial composition of school faculties and of a more equitable distribution of regularly assigned teachers.
38-3. A teacher who does not accept an appointment shall remain on the appropriate eligible list for as long as said teacher's permit remains valid.
38-4. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall post and maintain current eligibility lists of teachers by permit who have been permitted and are awaiting original appointment to a true vacancy.
38-5. For all staffing effective July 1, 1999, and thereafter, when substitute teachers are to be released due to the closing of divisions, appointment, re-appointment, transfer, or return from a leave of a regularly appointed teacher to the school, the principals shall utilize the following procedures:
1.	Day-to-day substitutes shall be released before any full
120
time-basis (FTB) substitute is released. Day-to-day substitutes employed on temporary certificates shall be released prior to the release of day-to-day substitutes employed on regular certificates.
2.	When full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teachers are released due to the closing of divisions, appointment, reappointment, transfer, or return from leave of a regularly appointed teacher to the school, the following procedures shall be followed:
a.	FTB teachers shall be released by the principal from a school on the basis of and consistent with their area of certification and experience according the annual census of all FTB teachers.
b.	FTB teachers so released shall be reassigned, effective the first day of student attendance of the school year, or thereafter, by the Bureau of Teacher Personnel to the Cadre and shall be continuously available to perform substitute service. Further, they shall accept all assignments in any and every school. Displaced FTB members of the Cadre shall continue to be eligible for all medical and dental benefits granted to full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teachers for twelve calendar months after reassignment to the Cadre provided said teachers remain in the Cadre. Displaced FTB teachers assigned to the Cadre shall be paid at the Cadre salary rate outlined in Article 27-1.1 of this Agreement provided, however, that any displaced FTB teacher who has served as an FTB teacher for 100 school days during any school year during the term of this Agreement, shall be paid $133.50 per day during the 1999-2000 school year, $136.17 during the 2000-01 school year, $138.89 for the 2001-02 school year, and $141.67 during the 2002-03 school year, for the remainder of that school year. In the event that the salaries of teachers and other members of the bargaining unit receive additional salary increases in accordance with the provisions of Article 36 of this Agreement in any and all years covered by this Agreement, the salaries herein referred to shall be increased by the same percentage(s).
121
The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall provide the released FTB teacher with a list of all vacant positions for which said teacher is qualified. This vacancy list shall be updated and published on a monthly basis. Released FTB teachers serving in the Cadre shall be given the opportunity to apply and be interviewed for vacant positions throughout the school year. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall maintain a list of released FTB teachers in order to assist principals in filling vacancies. An FTB teacher released from a school will not be reassigned to a vacancy temporarily filled by another FTB teacher.
c.	A member of the Cadre may be selected at any time by a principal to fill an existing vacancy provided that this reassignment is consistent with the area of certification required for said vacancy and is consistent with the compliance goals for faculty desegregation outline in the Consent Decree approved by the United States District Court. If reinstated as an FTB teacher, said teacher shall be placed on the appropriate lane and step of the salary schedule and shall receive all benefits herein provided to FTB teachers.
d.	The BOARD and the UNION agree that said displaced FTB teachers shall be included in the number of Cadre substitute teachers maintained by the BOARD under the provisions of Article 27-1-1 of this Agreement. If the number of released FTB teachers causes the size of the Cadre to exceed the specified 300 members from September to November 1 or 900 from November 1 through the end of the school year, the BOARD shall increase the size of the Cadre to accommodate inclusion of any released FTB teachers.
38-6. A review committee shall be established to hear and decide appeals only on the basis of hardship in the case of a regularly certified teacher whose appointment was made subsequent to June 30, 1999, to enhance and maintain the goals of the Plan provided said teacher has not had a prior review within the past twelve months.
38-7. The Principal shall notify teachers in encumbered and interim positions, in writing, prior to advertising said positions in the superintendent's bulletin. This procedure shall also ap
122
ply to new and vacant positions in the school. New and vacant positions shall be posted in a prominent place in the school for ten school days prior to the application deadline.
ARTICLE 39 — TEACHER EFFICIENCY RATINGS
39-1. Teacher efficiency ratings shall be distributed to the individual teachers at the local school on or before Friday of the 38th week of the school year except in schools which operate on 44 week, 46 week, 48 week, or 52 week term. Said schools shall issue and distribute efficiency ratings on the Friday immediately prior to the final week of the school term.
A copy of said rating shall be placed in the individual teacher's personnel file.
39-1.1. All appropriate administrators shall hold an orientation meeting after the 20th school day but prior to the 40th school day to review and explain the teacher efficiency rating procedures as set down in Articles 39-4.1,39-4.2 and 39-7 of this Agreement.
39-2. Regularly tenured teachers shall be graded only once yearly except for those who are unsatisfactory. Effective with the 2000-2001 school year, tenured teachers rated excellent or superior shall be rated every two years. Tenured teachers rated satisfactory shall be rated once yearly.
39-3. A principal newly assigned or transferred to a school shall give an efficiency grade to substitute teachers and to those teachers who are on their probationary period. Said principal shall not grade tenured teachers whose work is satisfactory or better until said principal has served in that school at least five months.
39-4. Efficiency Rating Procedures - Unsatisfactory Probationary (Non-Tenured) or Substitute Teachers.
39-4.1. Unsatisfactory Probationary Teachers. Whenever, in the opinion of the principal, the service of a probationary teacher is considered unsatisfactory, the following procedures take place:
a)	The principal of the school notifies the teacher in writing, using Form E-1. This notice, which is given to the
123
teacher in a place insuring privacy, states the reasons for the unsatisfactory rating and offers suggestions and assistance to the teacher for improving said teacher's services.
b)	The principal sends two copies of the E-1 notice to the district superintendent, one for the regional officer's file and one to the Department of Personnel.
c)	Following the issuance of the E-1 notice, the principal visits the teacher at least three times and has at least three conferences with said teacher at a place insuring privacy. The regional officer also visits the teacher. Following each conference, written suggestions are made to the teacher for improving said teacher's services.
The principal shall give the teacher a written memo which will verify, in each instance, that the teacher was visited and that a conference as above described was held.
d)	Upon completion of the 40 school day period after the issuance of the E-1 notice, if the services of the teacher continue to be unsatisfactory, the principal shall present an E-2 notice to the teacher in a conference at a place insuring privacy, and copies are distributed as indicated above.
If the teacher has not received an E-2 notice by the end of the 45th school day following the issuance of the E-1 notice, said E-1 notice is voided and shall be removed from all files and records.
e)	The Department of Personnel then calls a conference in which the following persons are included: the teacher, the principal, the district superintendent, the assistant superintendent in charge of personnel or designee. At this conference the unsatisfactory rating is discussed. A recommendation is then made to the General Superintendent of Schools regarding the action to be taken.
39-4.2. Unsatisfactory Full-time-basis (FTB) Substitute Teachers. In the case of an unsatisfactory full-time-basis (FTB) substitute, the following procedure shall be followed in making such a rating:
a)	Whenever the principal of a school is of the opinion that the services of an FTB teacher are unsatisfactory, the
124
principal shall notify the teacher in writing stating the reasons for the unsatisfactory rating and offering suggestions for improvement.
b)	After the issuance of a notice of unsatisfactory service, the principal shall visit the teacher, observe the teacher in a teaching situation, and confer with said teacher in a place insuring privacy, to offer assistance in improving said teacher's service.
If the principal feels that the work of the teacher is still unsatisfactory, after at least 15 school days following the issuance of the notice of unsatisfactory service, the principal shall notify the Department of Personnel. The principal shall give the teacher a written memo, in duplicate, which will verify that the teacher was visited and that a conference was held. The teacher shall initial the memo and return one of the copies to the principal.
c)	The Department of Personnel shall schedule a conference with the FTB teacher to inform the teacher of the receipt of the unsatisfactory rating and give said teacher positive suggestions for improvement. If this is the first unsatisfactory rating, the Department of Personnel may consider transfer to another teaching situation.
39-4.3. Unsatisfactory Day-to-Day Substitute Teachers. Whenever a temporarily certificated teacher employed on a day-to-day basis receives an unsatisfactory rating, the Department of Personnel shall schedule a conference with said teacher to give the teacher a written copy of the reasons for the unsatisfactory rating, discuss the reasons, and to give positive suggestions for improvement to the teacher.
The services with the school system of an unsatisfactory temporarily certificated teacher employed on a day-to-day basis shall not be terminated until said teacher has been given an unsatisfactory rating by at least two principals, unless there is evidence of moral laxity or serious misconduct.
39-4.4. Dismissal for Cause. Sections 39-4.1,39-4.2, and 39-4.3 are efficiency rating procedures only and shall not limit the right of the BOAFID to remove any teacher for good cause. The efficiency rating and any decision to discipline are within the exclusive discretion of the principal and/or BOARD and are not subject to the grievance procedure.
125
This section does not prevent the UNION from grieving alleged violations of the evaluation process.
39-5. Efficiency Rating Procedures - Reduction of Rating Probationary Teachers.
39-5.1. Reduction to Excellent. Whenever, in the opinion of the principal, it appears that the efficiency grade of a probationary teacher may be reduced from superior to excellent, the principal shall notify the teacher in writing when this possibility becomes evident to the principal. If the teacher submits a written request for a conference, the principal shall confer with the teacher to discuss ways in which the teacher may increase his or her efficiency and may maintain a superior rating.
This procedure shall not be applicable when said efficiency rating is the initial evaluation of said teacher as a regularly appointed teacher or when a new principal is evaluating teachers for the first time in that school, except that this procedure shall be applicable when the probationary teacher is being evaluated by the same principal who evaluated the probationary teacher as a full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher in the semester immediately prior to appointment as a probationary teacher.
39-5.2. Reduction to Satisfactory. Whenever, in the opinion of the principal, it appears that the efficiency grade of a probationary teacher may be reduced to satisfactory, the principal shall notify the teacher in writing, using Form E-1. This notice, which is given to the teacher in a private conference, states the reasons therefor and offers suggestions and assistance to the teacher for improving the teacher's services.
Said notice shall be issued ten weeks prior to the date on which efficiency ratings are issued.
This procedure shall not be applicable when said efficiency rating is the initial evaluation of said teacher as a regularly appointed teacher or when a new principal is evaluating teachers for the first time in that school, except that this procedure shall be applicable when the probationary teacher is being evaluated by the same principal who evaluated the probationary teacher as a full-time-basis (FTB) substitute
126
teacher in the semester immediately prior to appointment as a probationary teacher.
39-6. Efficiency Rating Procedures - Tenured Teachers.
39-6.1. Evaluation Plan. Each tenured teacher shall be evaluated only by a qualified administrator in accordance with the procedures outlined in the Evaluation Plan submitted by the BOARD for approval by the Illinois State Board of Education.
39-7. Efficiency Rating Procedures - Unsatisfactory Tenured Teachers.
39-7.1. Unsatisfactory Tenured Teachers. Whenever, in the opinion of the principal, after personal observation in the classroom on at least two (2) different school days, unless the teacher has no classroom duties, the service of a tenured teacher is considered unsatisfactory, the principal of the school shall notify the teacher in writing, using Form E-3, Evaluation of Unsatisfactory Service of a Tenured Teacher. This notice, which is given to the teacher in a conference at a place insuring privacy, states the reasons for the unsatisfactory rating and advises the teacher that the teacher is required to participate in a remediation plan.
39-7.2. Consulting Teacher. The qualified consulting teacher shall be one who has received a rating of superior or excellent on his or her most recent evaluation, has a minimum of five years experience in teaching, and has knowledge relevant to the assignment of the teacher under remediation.
Qualified potential consulting teachers shall submit their application for placement on the consulting teacher roster to the Director of Teacher Personnel, with a copy to the appropriate district superintendent and the President of the UNION, by June 1 of the preceding school year. The UNION shall submit to the appropriate district superintendent prior to October 1 of each school year the roster(s) of qualified potential consulting teachers for that district. If the UNION fails to provide a roster to a district superintendent by October 1 of each school year the BOARD shall determine the roster(s) of qualified teachers for that district.
Within 3 school days after issuance of Form E-3, the principal shall select a qualified potential consulting teacher from
127
the appropriate district roster, supplied by the UNION, containing the names of qualified potential consulting teachers from each school within said district. Within 2 school days after notification by the principal of the teacher's selection as a consulting teacher, said teacher may waive this assignment by notifying the principal(s) involved. After accepting selection, if the consulting teacher can no longer participate during the course of a remediation plan, a new consulting teacher shall be selected in the same manner as the initial consulting teacher. The remediation plan shall be amended as necessary upon consulting with the new consulting teacher.
The principal may designate up to 3 preparation periods of any consulting teacher during any one week to be utilized by the consulting teacher for remediation purposes.
The consulting teacher shall advise the teacher under remediation on how to improve teaching skills and how to successfully comply with the remediation plan during each of said preparation periods designated by the principal for that purpose. For each preparation period thus designated, the consulting teacher shall be scheduled for a make-up preparation period of the same time duration within the same or the next payroll period thereafter. This preparation period shall be scheduled at the end of the regular school day and the consulting teacher shall be paid at a prorata basis of said teacher's basic salary.
39-7.3. Remediation Plan. Within 7 school days after selection of the consulting teacher, the principal shall schedule a meeting with the consulting teacher and the teacher rated unsatisfactory in order to commence the development of a remediation plan designed to correct the areas identified as unsatisfactory. The remediation plan may include the participation of other personnel to assist in correcting areas identified as unsatisfactory. Said remediation plan shall become effective no later than 30 days after issuance of Form E-3 to the unsatisfactory teacher.
39-7.4. Quarterly Evaluations. During the remediation period, the teacher under remediation shall receive quarterly evaluations (each 45 days) and ratings from the principal. The quarterly evaluations and ratings shall be issued at a conference in a place insuring privacy. The consulting teacher shall advise the teacher under remediation on how to improve
128
teaching skills and how to successfully comply with the remediation plan. The consulting teacher shall not participate in any of the required quarterly evaluations and shall not evaluate the performance of the teacher under remediation. If after any such quarterly evaluation additional remediation is provided, the teacher under remediation, the principal, and the consulting teacher, shall confer in order to continue to provide appropriate assistance to the teacher under remediation.
After the initial 45-day remediation period, the principal, in consultation with the consulting teacher, shall determine if sufficient improvement in teacher performance has taken place to justify continuation of the remediation process. If sufficient improvement has not taken place, Article 39-7.6 of this Agreement shall govern.
If the principal, in consultation with the consulting teacher, determines (based on the teacher's progress) that the teacher may be remediable, the principal may extend the remediation for another 45-days (quarter). Such additional remediation shall create no presumption of remediability. The principal, in consultation with the consulting teacher, shall determine whether that remediation shall be in the classroom or in some other location. Following this additional process of remediation, the teacher shall receive another quarterly evaluation in accordance with Articles 39-7.4 and 39-7.5 of this Agreement.
At the conclusion of the second quarter of remediation, if any, the same process described above for the conclusion of the first period of remediation shall occur and the teacher shall be subject to Article 39-7.6 of this Agreement or, at the discretion of the principal, the remediation shall be continued for another additional quarter (45 days).
At the conclusion of the third quarter of remediation, if any, the same process described above for the conclusion of the first period of remediation shall occur and the teacher shall be subject to Article 39-7.6 of this Agreement or, at the discretion of the principal, the remediation shall be continued for another quarter (45 days).
39-7.5. Satisfactory Completion of the Remediation Plan. Following successful completion of any remediation plan, there shall be monthly evaluations for the first six (6)
129
months and quarterly evaluations for the next six (6) months. Thereafter, the teacher shall be reinstated to a schedule of annual evaluations.
39-7.6. Failure to Successfully Complete the Remediation Plan. Any teacher who fails to complete the remediation plan with a satisfactory or better rating shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 122, Sec. 24A-5 of the Illinois Revised Statutes.
39-7.7. Evaluation Schedule. When the evaluation schedule requires an evaluation after the close of the school year, but on or before July 15, such evaluation shall be scheduled to occur no later than two (2) weeks prior to the close of the preceding school year.
When the evaluation schedule requires an evaluation after the close of the school year, but after July 15, such evaluation shall be scheduled to occur not later than two (2) weeks after students' attendance commences in the following school year.
Failure to strictly comply with the timelines for the required evaluations because of events such as summer months, illness or certain leaves granted under a remediation plan shall not invalidate the results of the remediation plan.
39-7.8. Dismissal for Cause. Articles 39-7.1 through 397.6 are efficiency rating procedures only and shall not limit the right of the BOARD to remove any teacher for good cause. The efficiency rating and any decision to discipline are within the exclusive discretion of the principal and/or BOARD and are not subject to the grievance procedure.
This section does not prevent the UNION from grieving alleged violations of the evaluation process.
39-8. Teacher Evaluation Review Form. Whenever the Teacher Evaluation Review form is prepared, one copy shall be submitted to the teacher. The teacher may respond in writing to the principal within ten school days after receipt of said review form. Said response shall be attached to the review form.
130
39-9. Efficiency Rating Procedures - Reduction of Ratings of Tenured Teachers.
39-9.1. Reduction to Excellent. Whenever, in the opinion of the principal, it appears that the efficiency grade of a tenured teacher may be reduced from superior to excellent, the principal shall notify the teacher in writing, when this possibility becomes evident to the principal. If the teacher submits written request for a conference, the principal shall confer with the teacher to discuss ways in which the teacher may increase his or her efficiency and may maintain a superior rating.
This procedure shall not be applicable when said efficiency rating is the initial evaluation of said teacher as a tenured teacher or when a new principal is evaluating teachers for the first time in that school.
39-9.2. Reduction to Satisfactory. Whenever, in the opinion of the principal, it appears that the efficiency grade of a tenured teacher may be reduced to satisfactory, the principal shall notify the teacher in writing, using Form E-1. This notice, which is given to the teacher in a private conference, states the reasons therefor and offers suggestions and assistance to the teacher for improving the teacher's services.
Said notice shall be issued ten weeks prior to the date on which efficiency ratings are issued.
This procedure shall not be applicable when said efficiency rating is the initial evaluation of said teacher as a regularly appointed teacher or when a new principal is evaluating teachers for the first time in that school.
ARTICLE 40	— TEACHER PROGRAMMING
40-1. The principal, in programming a teacher, shall (1) keep the number of preparations to a minimum; (2) ability and qualifications being equal, follow the policy of rotation among qualified personnel in the matters of sessions, teaching, building assignments, special classes, honors and other modified classes, and division rooms; (3) consider the teacher's professional background and preparation; (4) in elementary schools, ability and qualifications being equal, program teachers for the grade level at which they have the most experience, except that any teacher may request a
131
change in grade level assignment.
40-2. No later than May 1 of each year, preference sheets shall be distributed to all teachers. A teacher's preference will be honored, to the extent possible, consistent with paragraph 40-1 above.
40-3. A tentative teaching program for the next school year shall be presented to each teacher by June 1 of the current school year, except that in the high schools a tentative teaching program shall be presented at least five days prior to the end of the school year.
40-4. Where administratively possible, no teacher shall have more than three consecutive teaching assignments. Exceptions shall be allowed for teachers teaching double-period classes or completing part of their teaching assignment outside of the school building.
40-5. Where administratively possible, the number of different rooms to which a teacher is assigned shall be held to the absolute minimum.
40-6. Where administratively possible, the number of lesson preparations shall not exceed three, and every effort shall be made to keep the number at two. Honors and other modified classes shall be considered as separate preparations. Teachers with a full teaching program shall be given preference in the assignment of the number of preparations.
40-7. In elementary schools with ability grouping within a single grade level, ability and qualifications being equal, the principal in programming the teacher shall follow the policy of rotation of teacher assignments within the grade level.
40-8. Prior to February 15, each cooperative vocational education teacher shall confer with the principal, or the principal's designee, relative to a registration procedure for students recommended for placement in the cooperative vocational education program.
Each cooperative vocational education teacher shall furnish to the principal, or the principal's designee, data and rationale to support the recommendations being submitted for consideration. The recommendations of the cooperative
132
education teacher shall be given the highest priority.
ARTICLE 41	— TEACHING LOAD
41-1. High school teachers of art, drafting, music, physical education, and business education, and teachers in education and vocational guidance centers shall have a maximum of 25 teaching periods per week.
41-2. Distributive education teachers on an extended day carrying a one-half program shall teach five periods per day and may have a division. The balance of their day shall be devoted to coordination.
Distributive education teachers on an extended day carrying a full program shall teach four periods per day and may have a division. The balance of their day shall be devoted to coordination.
41-3. Office occupations coordinators on an extended day carrying a one-half program shall teach five periods per day and may have a division. The balance of their day shall be devoted to coordination.
Office occupations coordinators on an extended day carrying a full program shall teach four periods per day and may have a division. In the case where a single related period is required, the office occupations coordinator shall teach five periods and shall not have a division. The balance of their respective days shall be devoted to coordination.
41-4. The UNION agrees to urge its members to participate in two report card pick up days during each school year. These days shall be non-student attendance days. The hours for teachers and other bargaining unit members on these days shall be from 12 p.m. to 6 p.m. and shall include a 45-minute duty-free meal period.
Members who participate in two report card pick up days shall work one half day on the last day of the school year in June and shall be paid for a full day. Members who participate in one report card pick up day shall work three-quarters of the day on the last day of the school year in June and shall be paid for a full day.
41-5. Industrial cooperative education teachers on an
133
extended day carrying a one-half program shall teach five periods per day and may have a division. The balance of their day shall be devoted to coordination. Industrial cooperative education teachers on an extended day carrying a full program shall teacher four periods per day and may have a division. The balance of their day shall be devoted to coordination.
41-6. Each cooperative work training (CWT) teacher, in conjunction with the school programmer, shall develop a student roster for the next school year and interview each student listed on said roster by the end of the first week in June.
41-7. Each cooperative work training (CWT) teacher shall have telephone service available when necessary to contact employers concerning job opportunities for pupils enrolled in the CWT program.
41-8. Cooperative work training (CWT) teachers on an extended day carrying a one-half program shall teach no more than five periods per day and may have a division. The balance of their day shall be devoted to coordination.
Cooperative work training (CWT) teachers on an extended day carrying a full program shall teach no more than four periods per day and may have a division. The balance of their day shall be devoted to coordination.
41-9. Home economics related occupations (HERO) teachers on an extended day carrying a one-half program shall teach five periods per day and may have a division. The balance of their day shall be devoted to coordination.
Home economics related occupations (HERO) teachers on an extended day carrying a full program shall teach no more than four periods per day and may have a division. The balance of their day shall be devoted to coordination.
ARTICLE 42	— TRANSFER POLICY AND PROCEDURE
42-1. Upon application for transfer, the teacher shall be given a dated, written receipt. Regularly certificated and appointed teachers may apply for transfer after having served a minimum of five school months in their present school. Effective September 1, 1974, teachers whose names do not now
134
appear on any transfer list, or those teachers whose names appear on only one transfer list, will be permitted to apply for transfer to a total of two schools.
Teachers granted a voluntary transfer effective September 1, 1984 and thereafter, may apply for another voluntary transfer after having served a minimum of two years in their present school.
42-1.1. Any regularly appointed teacher who is eligible to transfer shall remain on the transfer list while on an approved sick leave granted under the provisions of Board Rule 4-33, provided that the principal, during the official visitation period established by the Bureau of Teacher Personnel, may go to the next name on the transfer list for visitation and approval for transfer if the first name on the list is that of a teacher on sick leave. A teacher returning from sick leave shall notify, in writing, each principal of a school to which transfer has been requested that the teacher is now available for the purpose of visitation by the principal and possible transfer at the next transfer period.
42-2. During July and August 1999, when assignments are made for the 1999-2000 school year; during July and August 2000, when assignments are made for the 2000-2001 school year; during July and August 2001, when assignments are made for the 2001-2002 school year; during July and August 2002, when assignments are made for the 2002-2003 school year; and during July and August 2003 when assignments are made for the 2003-2004 school year, said assignments shall first be made from the transfer list if following said transfer, both the receiving school and the sending school remain within the compliance goals for faculty desegregation outlined in the Consent Decree entered and approved by the United States District Court.
The first priority for such transfer shall be granted to any regularly certificated and appointed teacher administratively exchanged with another teacher in June and August, 1977 to meet the goals and objectives of the Plan to Implement the Provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, who placed his or her name on the transfer list of said teacher's former school on or before February 1, 1978. Said teacher shall be transferred to any true vacancy at the teacher's former school which is appropriate to the teacher's certificate
135
provided that both the receiving and sending schools remain within the above-cited compliance goals for faculty integration and that the established procedures for principal visitation and approval have been completed.
The second priority for transfer shall be granted to reserve teachers who have made proper application in accordance with the provisions of Article 42-3 of this Agreement and provided that the established procedures for principal visitation and approval have been completed.
The third priority for transfer shall be granted to any regularly certificated and appointed teacher administratively exchanged with another teacher in August, 1981, to meet the compliance goals for faculty desegregation outlined in the Consent Decree entered and approved by the United States District Court, who places his or her name on the transfer list of said teacher's former school on or before February 1, 1982. Said teacher shall be transferred to any true vacancy at the teacher's former school which is appropriate to the teacher's certificate provided that both the receiving and sending schools remain within the above-cited compliance goals for faculty desegregation and that the established procedures for principal visitation and approval have been completed.
The fourth priority for transfer shall be granted to any other regularly certificated and appointed teacher provided that the above-cited compliance goals for faculty desegregation are met and that the established procedures for application, principal visitation and approval have been completed. Said procedures shall be published in the Personnel Bulletin 60 days prior to the deadline date for transfer applications.
42-2.1. On or before November 30, 1977, a program shall be designed to recruit for assignment at the beginning of the next school year currently employed teachers willing to accept reassignments or transfers to further integrate the faculties. The program shall:
(a)	identify teachers willing to transfer or accept reassignment for the purpose of faculty desegregation whose reassignments would not adversely affect the compliance status of the school to which they are assigned;
(b)	encourage said teachers to visit the prospective schools to which they may be transferred and to discuss each
136
school's program with the principal and other teachers prior to accepting or rejecting the proposed transfer or reassignment;
(c)	permit principals to visit in accordance with established personnel policies and procedures teachers who have volunteered for integration purposes;
(d)	permit only those teachers with satisfactory or better efficiency ratings at the last recorded evaluation and who have not been issued an E-1 or E-3 Notice of Unsatisfactory Teaching Service to apply for voluntary transfer to enhance the integration of faculties;
(e)	the final approval of the transfer shall be made by the receiving school principal.
42-3. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall make available in December and June a list of all vacancies in each school occupied by substitute teachers, including those on a full-time basis, stating the grade level and/or specific subject area.
A reserve teacher is one whose service is no longer required in a particular school because of a decrease in membership or a change in subject requirements within the school organization. Reserve status of a teacher is determined only by the length of continuous service in Chicago Public Schools as a regularly appointed teacher, and not by the length of service in the school in which the reserve position occurs. Service previous to a resignation is not considered.
Upon being declared reserve, the Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall immediately provide the reserve teacher with a list of all vacant positions for which he or she is qualified and where he or she further enhances or maintains the achievement of the goals of the Plan to Implement the Provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and which as a result of his or her selection will assure that the racial composition, experience and educational training of the schools selected will more nearly approach the system-wide proportions. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall provide each reserve teacher who makes a written request to the Department of Human Resources, a copy of the list of vacancies in any area identified by the Department of Human Resources to be an area of systemic critical need.
Provided that a vacancy exists in a teacher's area of certifi
137
cation within ten working days from receipt of notification of being declared reserve, a reserve teacher shall make written application to at least three vacant positions from the list provided by the Bureau of Teacher Personnel. The applications shall be made to the principals and a copy of each shall be provided by the teacher to the Bureau of Teacher Personnel.
The reserve teacher shall be interviewed by the three principals to whom they submitted written application.
When a principal makes a written recommendation to the Bureau of Teacher Personnel or selection to a specific position, the reserve teacher shall be transferred to said vacant position.
Except that, upon being declared reserve and the holding of the related personnel conference, the reserve teacher shall be appointed to any new or unencumbered vacant position in the area of certification of the reserve teacher to which the principal has failed to make a permanent appointment within 60 days after the position is created or becomes vacant, if such a position exists and the appointment of the reserve teacher would be consistent with the provisions of the Plan to Implement the Provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. If the reserve teacher is appointed to a permanent position under this paragraph, he or she shall not be required to make application to the three vacant positions as otherwise required above. If there are more reserve teachers than unencumbered positions which have been vacant for more than 60 school days, appointments shall be made on the basis of seniority consistent with the Plan.
If the reserve teacher is not assigned a permanent position as provided in the preceding paragraph, the BOARD shall assign the reserve teacher on an interim basis to a full-time teaching position in accordance with the BOARD'S current procedures for the placement of such individuals and in compliance with the provisions of the Plan to Implement the Provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Any such reserve teacher whose most recent efficiency rating is satisfactory or better shall be permanently appointed to the position after having served in it on an interim basis for 60 school days. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel may process the appointment of another teacher permanently or on an interim basis to the position during this 60 school day period. No provisional teacher, day-to-day substitute teacher, or full
138
time-basis substitute teacher shall be appointed to serve in an unencumbered vacant teaching position which has existed for 60 school days or more so long as a regularly appointed teacher holding a certificate consistent with such position retains the status of a reserve teacher assigned on an interim basis if the appointment of the reserve teacher to the position would be consistent with the provisions of the Plan. If there are more reserve teachers than unencumbered positions which have been vacant for more than 60 school days, appointments shall be made on the basis of seniority consistent with the Plan.
Effective September 1, 1993, each teacher who is a reserve teacher as of that date and each person who becomes a reserve teacher after that date with a certification area for which no vacancies exist shall have 20-school months from September 1, 1993, or the date that the teacher becomes a reserve teacher, whichever is later, to obtain certification in an area of certification identified by the Department of Human Resources to be an area of critical systemic need. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall certify approval of the new teaching certificate. Any such reserve teacher who fails to obtain certification within the 20-school month period shall be terminated from service. In cases of personal hardship, said 20-school month period may be extended for one year by application to the General Superintendent through the Office of Labor Relations.
When such reserve teacher is re-certified, he or she shall so notify the Bureau of Teacher Personnel. The Bureau of Teacher Personnel shall hold a personnel conference with the reserve teacher within 10 school days of such notification. The reserve teacher shall, at that time, be appointed to any new or unencumbered vacant position in the new area of certification of the reserve teacher to which the principal has failed to make a permanent appointment within 60 school days after the position is created or becomes vacant, if such a position exists and the appointment of the reserve teacher would be consistent with the provisions of the Plan to Implement Provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. If there are more reserve teachers than unencumbered positions which have been vacant for more than 60 school days, appointments shall be made on the basis of seniority consistent with the Plan.
If no vacancy exists which has been vacant for 60 school
139
days and for which the appointment of the reserve teacher would be consistent with the Plan to Implement Provisions of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the reserve teacher shall be provided a list of all vacancies in his or her new area of certification and continue to be appointed on an interim basis to a full-time teaching position for a period not to exceed 25-school months from the date the teacher was declared to be reserve. During the 25-school month period, the reserve teacher shall retain all rights, salaries, and bonuses of a regularly-appointed teacher so long as the teacher continues to take appropriate courses in the approved area of systemic need. No provisional teacher, dayto-day substitute teacher or full-time-basis substitute teacher shall be appointed to serve in an unencumbered vacant teaching position which has existed for 60 school days or more so long as a regularly appointed teacher holding a certificate consistent with such position retains the status of a reserve teacher assigned on an interim basis if the appointment of the reserve teacher would be consistent with the provisions of the Plan. If there are more reserve teachers than unencumbered positions which have been vacant for more than 60 school days, appointments shall be made on the basis of seniority consistent with the Plan.
If 25-school months after a teacher is declared to be reserve, such teacher has not been appointed to a permanent position, the teacher shall be honorably terminated from service.
If within 2 years of an honorable termination of service of the reserve teacher, the reserve teacher is selected by a principal pursuant to Chapter 122 Section 34-8.1 of the School Code or otherwise appointed to a permanent position under this Article, upon appointment to such position all tenure and seniority rights shall be restored to the former reserve teacher.
A reserve teacher shall have the first right to return to his or her original school provided said teacher makes application at the time of the reserve teacher conference and said return is approved by the principal, with the further provision that said return shall assure that the racial composition, experience, and educational training of the original school faculty will more nearly approach the system-wide proportions.
42-4. Effective September 5, 1983 whenever the BOARD designates or re-designates, classifies or reclassifies a
140
school, or a program within a school, whether through Options for Knowledge, the Effective Schools Program, or any other program, the BOARD shall select the school's or program's staff from regularly appointed tenured teachers. Such selection shall be on the basis of specific, articulated criteria which are published, and which relate to the requirements of the position, the academic and professional background and the other relevant experience of the applicants which relate to the requirements of the position.
In choosing between applicants who are equally well qualified in terms of the published criteria, the BOARD shall accord a preference to a person who is already on the staff at the school.
Such selection of staff members shall be consistent with the compliance goals for faculty integration.
A teacher may request a transfer from the new category school.
A reserve teacher who is displaced from any school in the system because of a decrease in membership or a change in subject requirements shall be transferred in accordance with the provisions of Article 42-3 of this Agreement.
In a school with an Options for Knowledge partial school program, whenever the services of a teacher selected under this article are no longer required because of a decrease in membership or a change in subject requirements within the school organization, displacement of teachers shall be determined in the following manner:
(a)	when a teacher is to be displaced in the partial school program, the provisions of Article 42-3 shall apply to the whole faculty;
(b)	when a teacher not in the program is to be displaced, the provisions of Article 42-3 shall apply only to the faculty who are not in the program.
A teacher selected in any program pursuant to this article who has the least continuous service in the system may be displaced so long as there is at least one other teacher available in the system who is as well qualified in terms of the published criteria for the position.
42-5. All newly created or vacant assistant principal and head teacher positions shall be filled by contract principals in
141
compliance with the applicable provisions of Article 35. Assistant principals and head teachers so selected shall have terms that are co-terminus with the principals who select them, unless removed for unsatisfactory performance. If their terms of office are not extended, they shall be granted all rights and privileges of regularly assigned teachers.
ARTICLE 43 — VACATIONS
43-1. Full-time teachers and other full-time members of the bargaining unit, excluding day-to-day substitutes, not already covered by Section 4-7 of the Rules of the Board of Education, shall receive a maximum of 10 days' paid vacation at their current rate of salary, it being further provided that those regularly and currently employed on extended day programs, including eight-hour day positions and regularly scheduled overtime classes, shall be paid at the rate of salary prescribed for such programs and classes in accordance with the provisions and subject to the exceptions listed in Article 33-9 of this Agreement. A maximum of five days shall be granted when the schools are closed during spring recess and a maximum of five days shall be granted for Christmas recess.
Only bargaining unit members who are full-time employees of the BOARD at the time of a vacation period shall be eligible for vacation with pay with a further proviso, however, that such full-time employees of the BOARD who are absent on a leave of absence permitted by the Board Rules shall be eligible for vacation pay earned prior to said leave and during accumulated sick leave days used while on a sick leave.
Regularly appointed teachers and permanently certified career service members of the bargaining unit who are eligible for vacation pay under this article and who are absent on the day vacation checks are issued or who are absent on a leave of absence permitted by the Board Rules shall be eligible to receive their vacation pay by proxy.
All full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teachers and provisionally certified career service employees who are eligible for vacation pay under this article and who are absent on the day vacation checks are issued shall be permitted to receive vacation pay by proxy, provided, however, that said full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher or provisionally certified career service employee has returned to his or her work assignment
142
following the vacation period prior to the date the checks are issued.
Eligible full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teachers absent on an approved illness leave of absence who have completed five or more years of full-time consecutive service immediately preceding the commencement of said leave shall receive vacation pay upon written application filed with the Office of Labor Relations within 90 days after the vacation period ends.
Eligible full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teachers and eligible full-time provisionally certified career service employees with less than five years of consecutive service immediately preceding the commencement of the vacation period must return to their working assignment following the vacation period in order to receive vacation pay.
Eligible teachers or other bargaining unit members who resign or retire after completing twenty years of service, shall be granted all earned vacation pay provided written application for vacation pay is made to the Office of Labor Relations. The full burden of responsibility for filing written application for vacation pay shall rest with the teacher or other bargaining unit member.
Vacation pay shall be computed on the basis of the following formula:
a. Christmas recess pay for 1999 shall be computed from the number of days an employee was on the payroll from April 26, 1999 through November 15, 1999, according to the following formula:
1-10 days	0 days vacation pay
11 -20 days	1 day vacation pay
21-40 days	2 days vacation pay
41-60 days	3 days vacation pay
61-80 days	4 days vacation pay
81 days or more	5 days vacation pay
Spring vacation pay for 2000 shall be computed from the number of days an employee was on the payroll from November 22, 2000 through April 14, 2000, according to the above-state formula.
b Christmas recess pay for 2000 shall be computed from the number of days an employee was on the payroll from April 24, 2000 through November 10, 2000, according to
143
the above-stated formula.
Spring vacation pay for 2001 shall be computed from November 20, 2001 through April 13, 2001, according to the above-stated formula.
c Christmas recess pay for 2001 shall be computed from the number of days an employee was on the payroll from April 23, 2001 through November 9, 2001, according to the above-stated formula.
Spring vacation pay for 2002 shall be computed from November 19, 2001 through April 12, 2002, according to the above-stated formula.
d Christmas recess pay for 2002 shall be computed from the number of days an employee was on the payroll from April 22, 2002 through November 8, 2002, according to the above-state formula.
Spring vacation pay for 2003 shall be computed from November 18, 2002 through April 11,2003, according to the above-stated formula.
Vacation credits earned for the school months of May and June shall be carried over to the ensuing school year. Employees who are scheduled to work when the schools are closed for spring and Christmas recess shall arrange time off with their department head. Seniority shall be the determining factor to the extent permitted by the needs of the department. Vacations shall be on a consecutive-week basis unless otherwise requested by the employee to the extent permitted by the needs of the department.
43-1.1. In the event a member of the bargaining unit, who is eligible for vacation pay under this article, has not received pay due to death which occurred preceding, during or within 60 days after said vacation period, the estate or appropriate legal beneficiary shall be entitled to apply for said vacation pay-
43-1.2. Effective September 3, 1979, and thereafter, fulltime-basis (FTB) substitute teachers and regularly appointed teachers displaced from full-time service by the BOARD, other than for unsatisfactory service, shall be eligible for vacation pay for service rendered as a full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher or regularly appointed teacher up to the maxi
144
mum number of days allowed under the formula stated in Article 43-1, provided that such otherwise eligible teacher has been paid as a day-to-day or cadre substitute teacher during the payroll period immediately preceding the vacation period.
Effective September 15, 1983, certified career service employees displaced from full-time service by the BOARD other than for unsatisfactory service, shall be eligible for vacation pay for service rendered as a full-time basis certified employee up to a maximum number of days allowed under the formula stated in Article 43-1, provided that such otherwise eligible career service employee has been paid as a BOARD employee during the payroll period immediately preceding the vacation period.
Eligible day-to-day or cadre substitute teachers or eligible certified career service employees shall make written application for vacation pay to the Office of Labor Relations within ninety days after said vacation period. Said application shall be reviewed in accordance with established policy and the provisions of Article 43 of this Agreement. Vacation pay shall be paid to eligible applicants at the rate of pay the teacher or career service employee was receiving on the last day of fulltime-basis (FTB) substitute or regularly appointed service. In no case shall any such claim for vacation pay be considered if filed more than ninety days after the end of the vacation period.
The full burden of responsibility for filing written application with the Office of Labor Relations requesting this vacation pay shall rest with the teacher or career service employee.
ARTICLE 44 — GENERAL PROVISIONS
44-1. Proposals seeking Federal and State funds for specific programs shall be written in compliance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
44-2. Teachers or other bargaining unit members required to attend in-service training programs outside their regularly scheduled hours shall be paid at their regular rate of salary.
44-3. No teacher shall be required to perform such custodial duties as emptying trash, dusting erasers, washing boards, dusting or placing chairs on desks, or returning furniture to its proper place.
145
44-4. It is the objective of the BOARD that all schools be provided with washrooms and rest areas for men and women teachers that are private, clean, and comfortable.
44-5. Hallways, classrooms, washrooms, entrance areas, lounge areas, lunchrooms, teachers' rooms, and playgrounds shall be cleaned daily.
44-6. Final action or decisions made at faculty meetings shall be posted on school bulletin boards or published in the school's daily or weekly bulletin.
44-7. This Agreement shall be reproduced by the UNION with $4,990 of the cost to be paid by the BOARD. The BOARD shall distribute the Agreement to each person who is or becomes a member of the bargaining unit during its effective term.
The UNION will distribute the tentative Agreement to each of the members mentioned in the bargaining unit.
The initial delivery to the units shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 20 school days after the printed Agreements have been delivered to the BOARD. The UNION shall submit to the Office of Labor Relations a list by unit number of all parcels delivered to the Bureau of Supplies Management and Distribution, located at BOARD headquarters. Seven thousand copies of said Agreement shall be delivered to the Office of Labor Relations.
44-8. Subject to the credit below, teachers or other bargaining unit members whose absences result from school-related assault shall be paid full salary and medical expenses by the BOARD for the time of their total temporary incapacity and no deductions shall be made from sick leave.
There shall be coordination of salary payable hereunder with any sums payable under the Workers' Compensation Act for temporary total incapacity for work in that in calculating the amount due to an employee under this article, the BOARD shall be entitled to and shall take credit for any sum payable under the Workers' Compensation Act for temporary total disability. The credit hereunder is to be limited to temporary total disability only.
44-8.1. Teachers and all other members of the bargaining
146
unit shall immediately report to the school principal all cases of assault in which they are involved while acting in the course of their employment.
44-8.2. It shall be the responsibility of each teacher and/or bargaining unit member to supply any available information concerning a school-related assault and cooperate in any subsequent legal action concerning said incident.
44-9. Teachers or other bargaining unit members shall work under safe and healthful conditions.
44-9.1. Teachers and other bargaining unit members shall report immediately any acts of vandalism to the principal.
44-10. Affirmative Action Program. The UNION agrees to work cooperatively with the BOARD to insure equal employment opportunities in all aspects of the BOARD'S personnel policies.
44-11. It is the objective of the BOARD that teachers or other bargaining unit members be provided with off-street parking areas for their automobiles and that this area shall, to the extent possible, be secure and adjacent to the school.
44-12. Special clothing and safety equipment used by teachers and required by statute shall be provided by the BOARD.
44-13. Teachers and school clerks authorized by BOARD action to work on student orientation and/or articulation days in the week preceding the first week of a new school year shall be paid at the teacher's or school clerk's regular hourly rate of salary.
44-14. It is the objective of the BOARD that teachers and other bargaining unit members assigned to a permanent work station be provided a special lunch area and when this area is not a regular lunchroom, facilities for warming, refrigerating and storing food shall be provided, to the extent that these items are provided for in the annual budget adopted by the BOARD.
44-15. Transportation allowance checks shall be received
147
no later than the twenty-first of each month.
44-16. The approved textbook list shall be made available in the schools by February 1 of each school year whenever possible.
44-17. In all schools where an intercom is used, an oral signal shall be given to indicate the intercom is beginning to be put into operation, or a light shall be installed on each outlet to indicate when the intercom is in operation.
44-18. The BOARD policy on HIV and AIDS shall be posted in every school and BOARD facility.
44-19. As staff and funds can be made available, the audio-visual department shall label plainly film and videotape containers with the names of the films.
44-20. Teachers shall keep an accurate account of the educational equipment and materials issued to them for instruction of their classes.
44-21. The provisions of Articles 4-12, 4-13, 4-14, and 4-15 of this Agreement shall be applicable to the middle schools.
44-22. In situations over which the school system has no control, the UNION agrees to cooperate with the school administration in implementing workable solutions.
To combat situations over which the school system has no control, the UNION agrees to identify and train certain of its staff members so that in instances where serious school disruptions present a threat to the safety of pupils and bargaining unit members a solution shall be worked out by the BOARD and the UNION.
44-23. The BOARD shall make every effort to provide physical facilities for bilingual teachers who have classroom divisions to teach their classes on a comparable basis with other classroom teachers in the same building.
44-24. Unless precluded by the specific needs of an educational program, the BOARD shall offer to qualified teachers and/or qualified members of the bargaining unit the opportunity to work beyond their regular work day or work year prior
148
to seeking the services of outside vendors to perform said work.
44-25. Curriculum guides shall be provided for and used by each teacher in the respective subject area or areas.
44-26. Credit for purposes of lane placement shall be granted to teachers for participation in subject-related workshops or training sessions which are conducted by industry and other approved organizations and which have been approved in advance by the Department of Instruction Services. Requests for such approval shall be given in writing to the Department of Instruction Services and submitted sufficiently far in advance to permit appropriate investigations by the Department of Instruction Services. A reviewing committee set up by the Department of Instruction Services shall approve or disapprove promotional credits for particular training sessions or educational programs which do not bear university credit and shall determine credit hour equivalencies of such attendance. (This applies to all teachers.)
44-27. The BOARD and the UNION agree that no employee of the Board of Education shall be punished or rewarded, harassed or be discriminated against in any manner because of participation or lack of participation in activities relating to work stoppage (strike). Nothing herein shall preclude the right of the UNION from implementing UNION policy as to its members.
44-28. High school music teachers, with prior approval of the principal, shall be permitted to select sheet music and records that are not on the approved list.
44-29. Effective January, 1972, the parties agree that the schools shall be closed on January 15, the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., when said birth date occurs on a day when schools are in session. Members of the bargaining unit employed on a full-time-basis shall be granted full basic pay for such a holiday provided they work either the day before or the day after such holiday or are receiving sick pay. No salary shall be paid for such holiday where such bargaining unit member's first day of appointment to duty falls on the day after the holiday.
When such holiday falls on Sunday, the Monday next follow
149
ing shall be held and considered such holiday.
The above two paragraphs of this article shall be superseded by the following:
Effective January, 1986, the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday shall be observed on the third Monday in January. Schools shall be closed. Members of the bargaining unit employed on a full-time-basis shall be granted full basic pay for such a holiday provided they work either the day before or the day after such holiday or are receiving sick pay. No salary shall be paid for such holiday where such bargaining unit member's first day of appointment to duty falls on the day after the holiday.
44-30. The provisions of Article 4-12 shall be applicable to the education and vocational guidance centers.
44-31. The BOARD shall maintain a school calendar in which: Employees scheduled for 40 weeks shall receive their annual salary (including vacation pay) prorated over 42 weeks (40 school weeks and two weeks of vacation). Employees scheduled to work 48 weeks shall receive their annual salary (including vacation pay) prorated over 50 weeks (48 school weeks and two weeks of vacation). Subsequent to January 1, 1973, in lieu of a shortened school year, employees scheduled for 52 weeks shall be granted basic vacation pay each year with payment for service prior to July 1 as follows:
1.	three weeks for one year and up to 10 years of service
2.	four weeks for 10 years and up to 20 years of service
3.	five weeks for 20 or more years of service.
Commencing in the 1995-96 school year, a total of five days as established by the BOARD calendar in addition to the regular school calendar will be student non-attendance days occurring prior to the first week of classes for students, subsequent to the last week of classes for students, and/or during the students' school year. Consistent with the parties' intent to increase instructional time for students and to provide increased planning, evaluation, and staff development, the five days shall be utilized by teachers and other bargaining unit members as follows:
Days prior to the first week of classes for students shall
150
be devoted to staff development, class preparation and other activities as determined at the local school level following discussion between the principal and the school faculty. One-half of such time shall be self-directed preparation devoted to the orderly opening of classes on the first day of school which shall be a full classroom day for students.
Days subsequent to the last week of classes for students shall be devoted to review of the concluded school year, staff development, meetings, conferences with parents, formative and summative evaluations supplemental to the procedures provided for in Article 39, discussion of the School Improvement Plan, completion of reports, review and analysis of goals, and other activities determined at the local school level following discussion between the principal and the school faculty. One-half of such time shall be self-directed activities devoted to the orderly conclusion of the school year.
Days during the students' school year shall be devoted to staff development, class preparation, meetings, conferences with parents, and other activities as determined at the local school level following discussion between the principal and the school faculty. One-half of such time shall be self-directed activities devoted to the educational program, unless the principal and a majority of the teachers and other affected bargaining unit members decide otherwise.
It is agreed and understood that certain classifications of employees, including but not limited to non-teaching support staff and teaching staff with schedule conflicts caused by summer school, or special programs based on programmatic needs, may require alternative staff development programs. Such programs shall be determined at the local school level following discussion between the principal and the staff members requiring such alternative programs.
44-32. In elementary schools, education and vocational guidance centers, upper grade centers, middle schools and high schools the BOARD shall appropriate additional funds in the educational fund appropriations for instructional supplies of $100.00 for the purchase of instructional supplies and the purchase of classroom library books per classroom teacher during the term of this Agreement which shall be allocated by
151
the principal to individual classroom teachers, such funds to be expended with the prior approval of the principal and in accordance with procedures that have been developed by the Department of Control and the Bureau of Purchases. Problems related to the allocation and expenditure of these funds, within the framework of the above-mentioned procedures, shall be worked out by the principal and the teachers involved.
It is agreed and understood that these materials and books shall be used for student instruction. Funds shall be distributed to the schools in two equal payments on November 15 and February 15.
44-33. In the education and vocational guidance centers, the principal shall advise the faculty of the total amount of funds available to the school under Budget Classification 210-000-7998-5329 and, if a home economics program is in operation, the total amount of funds available to the school under Budget Classification 210-000-2271-5320 (elementary) or 210-000-2276-5320 (high school) for the purchase of supplies and materials. All teachers shall have access to and shall review the current Education Supplies Catalog. On or before a specific date to be established at each school, each teacher may submit, in writing, to the principal a suggested list of supplies for the teacher's pupils from the current Education Supplies Catalog. It is understood that supply allocations are limited to the available funds.
Funds for items which are ordered and marked “out of-stock” and which remain unexpended at the end of the school year shall be added to the local school's regular supply appropriation for the following year.
44-34. Immediately upon changing residence or telephone number, each member of the bargaining unit shall give written notice to the employee's immediate supervisor and also submit a notice of change card to the Department of Personnel through the office of the school or work location.
44-35. On or before December 10, 1981, the BOARD will publish city-wide seniority lists for teachers in each area of certification.
44-36. The substitute center shall maintain a list of bilingual substitutes and shall make every effort to provide a bilingual
152
day-to-day substitute in the case of the absence of the bilingual teacher.
44-37. The BOARD agrees to supply the UNION with a list of vacancies in the area of TESL and bilingual education to be published in the Chicago Union Teacher three times a year.
44-38. Vision screening and audiometric technicians shall be scheduled during the month of September to test new students enrolling in the Education and Vocational Guidance Centers.
A teacher in the EVGC shall confer with the principal and the school nurse whenever said teacher is of the opinion that a student may be in need of a physical examination or there appears to be a physical problem which may impair the efficiency of the student.
44-39. In the Education and Vocational Guidance Centers the principal and teachers shall develop a minimum of three in-service meetings to be held during the regularly scheduled in-service meeting periods. Said meetings shall be concerned with the areas of learning disabilities, adolescent psychology, human relations, cultural factors involved in learning and innovative techniques in teaching over age underachievers.
44-40. Reading Center Laboratory Teachers. There shall be consultation between the school reading center laboratory teacher and the school principal in selecting students for participation in the school reading center laboratory and for discontinuing the student's participation.
In connection with the above consultation, the school reading center teacher shall submit written student progress reports to the principal.
44-41. All BOARD employees who wish to confer with a teacher or teachers shall report to the principal, or the principal's designee, immediately upon arrival and shall sign the official register.
44-42. All members of the bargaining unit shall give written notice of intention to resign or retire at least 10 school days prior to the effective date thereof. Such notice shall be filed with the administrator of the work location and a copy shall be filed with the Department of Personnel.
153
ARTICLE 45 — COMMITTEES
45-1. The BOARD and the UNION agree to negotiate the establishment of joint BOARD-UNION study committees, the number and subject matter of such committees to grow out of needs identified through further negotiations.
All joint BOARD-UNION committees established through the provisions of this Agreement shall submit their reports to the General Superintendent of Schools. After submission to the General Superintendent, a copy of the committee's report shall be provided to the UNION and to the appointed committee members. The General Superintendent will provide to the UNION and to each appointed committee member the General Superintendent's recommendations pertaining to the committee's report before it is discharged.
45-2. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall continue to study and evaluate the TESL and bilingual-bicultural education program. Committee members shall not exceed six from the UNION and six from the BOARD.
The committee's final report shall be submitted to the General Superintendent of Schools in accordance with the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement.
45-3. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established under the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to review the clerical work required of elementary teachers and to make specific viable recommendations to the General Superintendent of Schools to reduce said clerical work.
Membership on said committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel.
45-4. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established in accordance with the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to study programs and establish standards for vocational education and school-to-work initiatives. The committee shall submit recommendations to the General Superintendent of Schools by the conclusion of the 1999-2000 school year for implementation in the 2000-2001 school year.
Membership in this committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and under
154
stood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel.
45-5. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established under the provisions of Article 45-1 to review the established guidelines for the Child Parent Centers.
45-6. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established under the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to study health care benefits and services to reduce costs, and/or cost containment of insurance through one or more of the following means:
A.	benefit changes, or
B.	consolidation, modification or other efficiencies with respect to the current menu of PPO/HMO plans, (including carrier changes), or
C.	increasing deductibles, insurance co-pays or providing for employee contributions based upon premium costs.
The committee shall also monitor the performance of the BOARD'S health care plans and discuss ways to improve plan operation and administration on an on-going basis including but not limited to the development and implementation of a chemical dependency Employee Assistance Plan and a “wellness” program.
All proposals which would reduce health care benefits to bargaining unit members shall be mutually agreed upon by the BOARD and the UNION.
It is the goal of the committee to generate substantial annual cost savings. The committee shall submit a written report to the chief executive officer of the BOARD and the president of the UNION as soon as possible but no later than April 1, 1996.
Membership of the committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel.
45-7. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established in accordance with Article 45-1 of this Agreement to submit recommendations to the General Superintendent for alternative models for restructuring time schedules in
155
schools. Any model approved by the General Superintendent of Schools may be utilized by the principal and Local School Council, subject to the waiver procedure outlined in Appendix C of this Agreement.
Membership on this committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel.
45-8. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established under the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement in order to make recommendations to the General Superintendent concerning viable procedures to grant credit on the teacher salary schedule for prior full-time experience as a career service employee of the BOARD.
Membership on this committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel selected by either the BOARD or the UNION.
45-9. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established under the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to study, discuss, and submit recommendations concerning the establishment of a voluntary employee assistance program. Said recommendations shall include the feasibility, scope, funding, and suggested operating procedures for this program. The confidentiality of all information concerning an employee's participation in such program shall be maintained and assured.
Membership on this committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel selected by either the BOARD or the UNION.
45-10. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established in accordance with the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to study the problem of providing additional benefits to bargaining unit members who have exhausted their accumulated sick days due to a catastrophic illness. This committee shall seek to provide viable recommendations to the General Superintendent of Schools to address this problem.
156
Membership of this committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel.
45-11 A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established under the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to study, discuss, and submit recommendations concerning class size, staffing and organization of Early Childhood Programs.
Membership on said committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel.
45-12. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established in accordance with the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to study and recommend viable procedures for assisting school staff members in the utilization of computer resource centers and computer laboratories, monitoring, equipping and securing such centers and laboratories.
Membership of this committee shall be limited to four from the BOARD and four from the UNION.
45-13. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established in accordance with the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to study and make recommendations concerning the development of career ladders for career service members of the bargaining unit.
Membership on this committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel selected by either the BOARD or the UNION.
45-14. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established under the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to review and examine school safety and the enforcement of the Uniform Discipline Code of the Chicago Board of Education. The committee will work monthly to recommend methods to provide uniform enforcement of the Discipline Code in elementary and high schools to reinforce and enhance the security of the Chicago Public Schools.
157
Membership on this committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel.
45-15. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established under the provisions of Article 45-1 of this Agreement to review, discuss, plan and evaluate the year-round education program and to make recommendations concerning problems encountered in payroll, track assignments, calendars, and other areas pertinent to year-round schools.
Membership on this committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel.
45-16. A joint BOARD-UNION committee shall be established in accordance with Article 45-1 of this Agreement to study, discuss, and submit recommendations to the General Superintendent of Schools concerning issues related to career academies that shall include, but not be limited to, state-of-the-art technology, curriculum, funding, supply and equipment needs, class size/work stations.
Membership in this committee shall be limited to five from the BOARD and five from the UNION. It is agreed and understood that said limitations shall not preclude utilization of appropriate resource personnel.
ARTICLE 46	— INTEGRATION — QUALITY EDUCATION
46-1. In order to implement the joint policy of the BOARD and the UNION to work affirmatively to give each child the advantage of an integrated school, the BOARD agrees -
1.	in concert with the UNION, to encourage regularly appointed teachers to apply for transfers under the provisions of Article 42-2.1 of this Agreement;
2.	in concert with the UNION, to encourage t he extensive use of curriculum, texts, and supplementary materials which represent contributions made to civilization by all elements of our population;
3.	as funds are available, to develop programs and select schools to receive the services and personnel required
158
to deal comprehensively and effectively with the total needs of a child in a school so that all elements of a sound educational structure are present, such as drastically reduced class size, additional teachers, additional counselors, reading specialists, psychologists and teacher assistants.
46-2. The BOARD and UNION agree to urge the publishers of standardized tests for pupils to include questions on the contributions of African-Americans, other minority groups, and women to world and United States history as appropriate.
46-3. The parties agree to continue to participate in negotiations with each other and with the Department of Justice during the term of this Agreement in the planning of a workable and effective program for the integration of school personnel. In this connection, the parties will negotiate with respect to such modifications of Articles 23-5 and 42-2 of this Agreement as either party may deem appropriate.
ARTICLE 47	— CONFORMITY
47-1. During the term of this Agreement, the UNION agrees not to strike nor to picket in any manner which would tend to disrupt the operation of any public school in the city of Chicago or of the administrative offices or any other facility of the BOARD.
During the term of this Agreement the BOARD agrees not to engage in any lockout.
47-2. The BOARD and the UNION recognize that increases in wage rates set forth in Appendix A of this Agreement constitute an increase of 3% for Fiscal Year 2000 and 2% per annum for Fiscal Years 2001,2002, and 2003.
47-2.1. The parties agree that the 3% increase for Fiscal Year 2000 and the 2% increase for Fiscal Years 2001,2002, and 2003 may be adjusted upward in any fiscal year depending on the total amount of general fund revenue received by the BOARD in that fiscal year from the following sources (referred to collectively as the “designated revenue sources”): (a) personal property taxes, (b) personal property replacement taxes, (c) general state aid, (d) flat block grant by ADA (school safety and educational improvement block grant),
159
and (e) the general education and educational service block grants. If the BOARD receives an aggregate increase in the designated revenue sources equal to or greater than 6.0% over the previous fiscal year, the increases in Appendix A will be adjusted upward in accordance with the following table. The parties agree that the following table accurately depicts the aggregate increases in the designated revenue sources and the corresponding adjustments in Appendix A.
Designated Revenue	Appendix A	Appendix B
Sources -	Adjustment	Adjustments for
% Increase	for	FYs 2001,2002,
Over Previous Year	FY 2000	and 2003
Less than 6%	3.0%	2.0%
Equal to 6% but less than 7%	3.2%	2.5%
Equal to 7% but less than 8%	3.4%	3.0%
Equal to 8% but less than 9%	3.6%	3.5%
Equal to 9% but less than 10%	3.8%	4.0%
Equal to or more than 10%	4.0%	4.5%
47-2.2. Any adjustments to the increase of 3% for Fiscal Year 2000 and increases of 2% for Fiscal Years 2001,2002, and 2003 to Appendix A of this Agreement are contingent upon a determination by the BOARD of the annual aggregate increase in the designated revenue sources for FYs 2001, 2002, and 2003. Therefore, any adjustments to the scheduled increases to Appendix A for FYs 2000, 2001,2002, and 2003 shall not be effective until and unless the BOARD adopts a Resolution that it finds there is a reasonable expectation that it will receive an aggregate increase in the designated revenue sources equal to or greater than 6% over the previous fiscal year in order to fund such increases or adjustments for that fiscal year. In no event will Appendix A be adjusted at a rate of less than 3% for Fiscal Year 2000 or 2% for Fiscal Years 2001,2002, and 2003.
47-2.3. Effective July 1,2000, teachers paid for a minimum of one year on step 12 shall receive a 3% increase; effective July 1, 2001, teachers paid for a minimum of one year on step 12 shall receive a 3% increase; effective July 1, 2002, teachers paid for a minimum of one year on step 12 shall receive a 3% increase.
160
Effective July 1,2000, other bargaining unit members (ESPs) paid for a minimum of one year on step 8 shall receive a 3% increase; effective July 1,2002, ESPs paid for a minimum of one year on step 8 shall receive a 3% increase; effective July 1, 2003, ESPs paid for a minimum of one year on step 8 shall receive a 3% increase.
The above is in addition to any amounts that may result from Article 47-2.1.
This provision is subject to negotiations for Fiscal Years 2004 and thereafter, provided that in no event shall any employee suffer a reduction in salary.
ARTICLE 48	— REPRESENTATION
48-1. Recognition by the BOARD of the Chicago Teachers Union as sole and exclusive bargaining agent shall continue provided, however, that should any other employee organization seek to represent employees in the bargaining unit, as defined in Article 1, Paragraph 1-1 of this Agreement, such request shall be dealt with and governed pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Educational Labor Relations Act.
48-2. Management Rights. The BOARD shall not be required to bargain over matters of inherent managerial policy within the meaning of the Illinois Educational Labor Relations Act or School Code, which shall include such areas of discretion or policy as the functions of the BOARD, standards of services, its overall budget, the organizational structure and selection of new employees and direction of employees; provided, that in order to preserve the rights of the parties predating this Agreement, the BOARD shall be required to bargain collectively with regard to any matter concerning wages, hours or conditions of employment about which they have bargained for and agreed to in a collective bargaining agreement prior to the date of this Agreement; provided further, that nothing herein shall affect the rights of the UNION or any employee under Article 3 of this Agreement. The BOARD, however, shall be required to bargain collectively with the UNION with regard to policy matters directly affecting wages, hours and terms and conditions of employment as well as the impact thereon upon request by the UNION.
161
ARTICLE 49	— CONCLUSION
49-1. This Agreement shall be effective as of July 1, 1999, and shall remain in effect until June 30, 2003. Negotiations for a subsequent Agreement will commence no later than May 1, 2003, upon written request of either party filed two weeks before this date. The Chicago Teachers Union shall submit its proposals at least 30 days prior to the commencement of negotiations.
49-2. Notwithstanding any other provision in this contract, if, during the term of this contract, Section 4.5 of the IELRA (115ILCS 5/4.5) is amended, the BOARD agrees to negotiate with the UNION the impact of such amendments and promptly execute any modifications to this contract which may be necessary as a result of such amendments.
49-3. In the event either party wishes to modify or amend this Agreement, written notice thereof shall be given to the other party at least 20 days prior to the consideration of said modification or amendment and, if said modification or amendment is thereafter mutually agreed upon, this Agreement will be so amended.
49-4. Neither the BOARD and its representatives nor the UNION and the members of the bargaining unit shall take any action violative of or inconsistent with any provision of this Agreement. The parties agree that if either has made a proposal not included herein, such proposal has been withdrawn in consideration of the making of this Agreement. All terms and conditions of employment for future years, including without limitation, salaries, benefits, pension pickup and staffing formulae, are the subject of negotiation for those years.
162
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused these presents to be signed and sealed by their Presidents and attested by their Secretaries.
CHICAGO SCHOOL REFORM BOARD OF TRUSTEES, a body politic and corporate,
By (s) Gery Chico President
Attest:
(s) Norma Tsuhako
Secretary
CHICAGO TEACHERS UNION, LOCAL 1 AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS, AFL-CIO, a voluntary organization and unincorporated association,
By (s) Thomas H. Reece President
Attest:
(s) Pamelyn Massarsky Recording Secretary
Board Authority:
Board Report Number: 98-1118-Ex1
Dated: November 18, 1998
Amended Board Report Number: 99-0526-Ex3
Dated: May 26, 1999
163
164
APPENDIX A	CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education
Effective July 1,1999
1A-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based upon a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 40 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
			LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Step	Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
1	3099.62	32546	2278	34824	3314.34	34801	2436	37237	3421.70	35928	2515	38443
2	3260.70	34237	2397	36634	3475.36	36491	2554	39046	3582.74	37619	2633	40252
3	3435.08	36068	2525	38593	3649.76	38322	2683	41005	3757.06	39449	2761	42211
4	3596.14	37759	2643	40403	3810.82	40014	2801	42815	3918.12	41140	2880	44020
5	3757.08	39449	2761	42211	3971.80	41704	2919	44623	4079.20	42832	2998	45830
6	3918.18	41141	2880	44021	4132.86	43395	3038	46433	4240.20	44522	3117	47639
7	4052.32	42549	2978	45528	4267.00	44804	3136	47940	4374.36	45931	3215	49146
8	4213.38	44240	3097	47337	4428.06	46495	3255	49749	4535.40	47622	3334	50955
9	4374.38	45931	3215	49146	4589.04	48185	3373	51558	4696.44	49313	3452	52765
10	4535.40	47622	3334	50955	4750.06	49876	3491	53367	4857.38	51002	3570	54573
11	4709.82	49453	3462	52915	4924.50	51707	3620	55327	5031.86	52835	3698	56533
12	4870.84	51144	3580	54724	5085.56	53398	3738	57136	5192.88	54525	3817	58342
165
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3529.02	37055	2594	39649	3636.36
2	3690.04	38745	2712	41458	3797.38
3	3864.48	40577	2840	43417	3971.80
4	4025.50	42268	2959	45226	4132.86
5	4186.50	43958	3077	47035	4293.88
6	4347.52	45649	3195	48844	4454.88
7	4481.74	47058	3294	50352	4589.04
8	4642.74	48749	3412	52161	4750.08
9	4803.78	50440	3531	53970	4911.12
10	4964.80	52130	3649	55780	5072.12
11	5139.20	53962	3777	57739	5246.58
12	5300.24	55653	3896	59548	5407.56
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
38182	2673	40855	3743.74	39309	2752	42061
39872	2791	42664	3904.78	41000	2870	43870
41704	2919	44623	4079.16	42831	2998	45829
43395	3038	46433	4240.16	44522	3117	47638
45086	3156	48242	4401.22	46213	3235	49448
46776	3274	50051	4562.26	47904	3353	51257
48185	3373	51558	4696.42	49312	3452	52764
49876	3491	53367	4857.42	51003	3570	54573
51567	3610	55176	5018.46	52694	3689	56382
53257	3728	56985	5179.46	54384	3807	58191
55089	3856	58945	5353.90	56216	3935	60151
56779	3975	60754	5514.94	57907	4053	61960
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
1A-1.
Step 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11
12
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education
Effective July 1,1999
Basic schedule for 40-week teachers paid on the 40-week basis compared with approximate salaries paid to 40-week teachers paid on the Regular & 60/20 Extended Pay Plan.
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree
LANE II
Master’s Degree
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
166
40-Week Monthly 3099.64
3260.70
3435.10
3596.14
3757.12
3918.18
4052.32
4213.38
4374.38
4535.40
4709.82
4870.84
40-Week Bi-Weekly 1549.82
1630.35
1717.55
1798.07
1878.56
1959.08
2026.16
2106.69
2187.19
2267.70
2354.91
2435.42
Ext Pay Monthly 2484.44
2613.54
2753.32
2882.40
3011.42
3140.52
3248.04
3377.14
3506.18
3635.24
3775.04
3904.10
Ext Pay Bi-Weekly 1242.22 1306.77 1376.66 1441.20 1505.71 1570.26 1624.02 1688.57 1753.09 1817.62 1887.52 1952.05
40-Week Monthly 3314.34
3475.36
3649.76
3810.82 3971.80 4132.86
4267.00
4428.06
4589.04
4750.06
4924.50
5085.56
40-Week Bi-Weekly 1657.17
1737.68
1824.88
1905.41
1985.90
2066.43
2133.50
2214.03
2294.52
2375.03
2462.25
2542.78
Ext Pay Monthly 2656.52
2785.60
2925.38
3054.48
3183.50
3312.60
3420.12
3549.20
3678.24
3807.30
3947.12
4076.20
Ext Pay Bi-Weekly 1328.26 1392.80 1462.69 1527.24 1591.75 1656.30 1710.06 1774.60 1839.12 1903.65 1973.56 2038.10
40-Week Monthly 3421.70
3582.74
3757.06
3918.12
4079.20
4240.20
4374.36
4535.40
4696.46
4857.40 5031.86 5192.88
40-Week Bi-Weekly 1710.85
1791.37
1878.53 1959.06 2039.60 2120.10 2187.18 2267.70 2348.23 2428.70 2515.93 2596.44
Ext Pay Monthly 2742.58
2871.66
3011.38
3140.48
3269.58
3398.64
3506.16
3635.24
3764.32
3893.34
4033.16
4162.22
Ext Pay Bi-Weekly 1371.29
1435.83
1505.69
1570.24
1634.79
1699.32
1753.06
1817.62
1882.16
1946.67
2016.58
2081.11
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
167
40-Week 40-Week Ext Pay Ext Pay Step	Monthly	Bi-Weekly	Monthly	Bi-Weekly
1	3529.02	1764.51	2828.60	1414.30
2	3690.04	1845.02	2957.66	1478.83
3	3864.48	1932.24	3097.48	1548.74
4	4025.50	2012.75	3226.54	1613.27
5	4186.50	2093.25	3355.58	1677.79
6	4347.52	2173.76	3484.66	1742.33
7	4481.74	2240.87	3592.24	1796.12
8	4642.74	2321.37	3721.28	1860.64
9	4803.80	2401.90	3850.38	1925.19
10	4964.80	2482.40	3979.42	1989.71
11	5139.20	2569.60	4119.20	2059.60
12	5300.24	2650.12	4228.28	2124.14
40-Week Monthly
3636.36 3797.38 3971.80 4132.86 4293.88 4454.88 4589.04 4750.08 4911.12 5072.12 5246.58 5407.56
40-Week Bi-Weekly 1818.18
1898.69
1985.90
2066.43
2146.94
2227.44
2294.52
2375.04
2455.56
2536.06
2623.29
2703.78
Ext Pay Monthly 2914.64 3043.70 3183.50 3312.60 3441.66 3570.70 3678.24 3807.32 3936.40 4065.44 4205.28 4334.30
Ext Pay Bi-Weekly 1457.32 1521.85 1591.75 1656.30 1720.83 1785.35 1839.12 1903.66 1968.20 2032.72 2102.64 2167.15
40-Week Monthly 3743.74
3904.78
4079.18
4240.18 4401.22 4562.28
4696.42
4857.42
5018.46
5179.46
5353.90
5514.96
40-Week Bi-Weekly 1871.87 1952.39 2039.59 2120.09 2200.61 2281.14 2348.21 2428.71 2509.23 2589.73 2676.95 2757.48
Ext Pay Monthly 3000.70 3129.78 3269.56 3398.62 3627.70 3656.78 3764.30 3893.34 4022.42 4151.48 4291.30 4420.36
Ext Pay Bi-Weekly 1500.35 1564.89 1634.78 1699.31 1763.85 1828.39 1882.15 1946.67 2011.21 2075.74 2145.65 2210.19
This salary schedule compares the approximate montly and bi-weekly salary rate of an employee paid on a 40-week basis to an employee paid on the extended pay plan. The extended pay plan factor for the 1998-99 school year has been established at .801526. (210 days of pay / 262 week days from August 16, 1999 through August 15, 2000.)
168
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,1999
1B-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 44 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
			LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Step	Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
1	3093.00	35570	2490	38059	3307.18	38033	2662	40695	3414.34	39265	2749	42013
2	3253.66	37417	2619	40036	3467.86	39880	2792	42762	3575.00	41113	2878	43990
3	3427.88	39421	2759	42180	3642.12	41884	2932	44816	3749.22	43116	3018	46134
4	3588.50	41268	2889	44156	3802.76	43732	3061	46793	3909.88	44964	3147	48111
5	3749.18	43116	3018	46134	3963.40	45579	3191	48770	4070.54	46811	3277	50088
6	3909.82	44963	3147	48110	4124.08	47427	3320	50747	4231.20	48659	3406	52065
7	4043.74	46503	3255	49758	4257.96	48967	3428	52394	4365.06	50198	3514	53712
8	4204.56	48352	3385	51737	4418.82	50816	3557	54374	4525.90	52048	3643	55691
9	4365.02	50198	3514	53712	4579.28	52662	3686	56348	4686.38	53893	3773	57666
10	4525.76	52046	3643	55689	4739.98	54510	3816	58325	4847.10	55742	3902	59644
11	4699.90	54049	3783	57832	4914.10	56512	3956	60468	5021.22	57744	4042	61786
12	4860.46	55895	3913	59808	5074.70	58359	4085	62444	5181.78	59590	4171	63762
169
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3521.46	40497	2835	43332	3628.60
2	3682.14	42345	2964	45309	3789.22
3	3856.34	44348	3104	47452	3963.44
4	4016.96	46195	3234	49429	4124.10
5	4177.66	48043	3363	51406	4284.80
6	4338.34	49891	3492	53383	4445.42
7	4472.20	51430	3600	55030	4579.30
8	4633.04	53280	3730	57010	4740.16
9	4793.50	55125	3859	58984	4900.64
10	4954.22	56974	3988	60962	5061.30
11	5128.32	58976	4128	63104	5235.44
12	5288.92	60823	4258	65080	5396.04
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
41729	2921	44650	3735.70	42961	3007	45968
43576	3050	46626	3896.32	44808	3137	47944
45580	3191	48770	4070.56	46811	3277	50088
47427	3320	50747	4231.22	48659	3406	52065
49275	3449	52724	4391.90	50507	3535	54042
51122	3579	54701	4552.56	52354	3665	56019
52662	3686	56348	4686.44	53894	3773	57667
54512	3816	58328	4847.28	55744	3902	59646
56357	3945	60302	5007.76	57589	4031	61620
58205	4074	62279	5168.46	59437	4161	63598
60208	4215	64422	5342.56	61439	4301	65740
62054	4344	66398	5503.18	63287	4430	67717
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 46 weeks of pay for 44 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,1999
1C-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 48 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
170
			LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Step	Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
1	3087.52	38594	2702	41296	3301.40	41268	2889	44156	3408.32	42604	2982	45586
2	3247.88	40599	2842	43440	3461.74	43272	3029	46301	3568.66	44608	3123	47731
3	3421.84	42773	2994	45767	3635.72	45447	3181	48628	3742.60	46783	3275	50057
4	3582.20	44778	3134	47912	3796.06	47451	3322	50772	3903.00	48788	3415	52203
5	3742.54	46782	3275	50056	3956.42	49455	3462	52917	4063.40	50793	3555	54348
6	3902.96	48787	3415	52202	4116.80	51460	3602	55062	4223.72	52797	3696	56492
7	4036.60	50458	3532	53990	4250.48	53131	3719	56850	4357.40	54468	3813	58280
8	4197.12	52464	3672	56136	4410.98	55137	3860	58997	4517.88	56474	3953	60427
9	4357.28	54466	3813	58279	4571.12	57139	4000	61139	4678.06	58476	4093	62569
10	4517.80	56473	3953	60426	4731.66	59146	4140	63286	4838.56	60482	4234	64716
11	4691.58	58645	4105	62750	4905.40	61318	4292	65610	5012.34	62654	4386	67040
12	4851.86	60648	4245	64894	5065.68	63321	4432	67753	5172.64	64658	4526	69184
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3515.24	43941	3076	47016	3622.16
2	3675.56	45945	3216	49161	3782.54
3	3849.54	48119	3368	51488	3956.46
4	4009.90	50124	3509	53632	4116.86
5	4170.28	52129	3649	55777	4277.24
6	4330.70	54134	3789	57923	4437.56
7	4464.34	55804	3906	59711	4571.22
8	4624.82	57810	4047	61857	4731.78
9	4784.98	59812	4187	63999	4891.92
10	4945.50	61819	4327	66146	5052.44
11	5119.24	63991	4479	68470	5226.20
12	5279.58	65995	4620	70614	5386.48
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
45277	3169	48446	3729.12	46614	3263	49877
47282	3310	50591	3889.42	48618	3403	52021
49456	3462	52918	4063.44	50793	3556	54349
51461	3602	55063	4223.76	52797	3696	56493
53466	3743	57208	4384.16	54802	3836	58638
55470	3883	59352	4544.50	56806	3976	60783
57140	4000	61140	4678.18	58477	4093	62571
59147	4140	63288	4838.72	60484	4234	64718
61149	4280	65429	4998.82	62485	4374	66859
63156	4421	67576	5159.42	64493	4514	69007
65328	4573	69900	5333.14	66664	4666	71331
67331	4713	72044	5493.42	68668	4807	73474
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,1999
1D-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 52 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
172
			LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Step	Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
1	3025.84	39336	2754	42089	3235.40	42060	2944	45004	3340.18	43422	3040	46462
2	3183.00	41379	2897	44276	3392.58	44104	3087	47191	3497.38	45466	3183	48649
3	3353.36	43594	3052	46645	3562.94	46318	3242	49560	3667.68	47680	3338	51017
4	3510.60	45638	3195	48832	3720.20	48363	3385	51748	3824.96	49724	3481	53205
5	3667.60	47679	3338	51016	3877.18	50403	3528	53932	3982.00	51766	3624	55390
6	3824.82	49723	3481	53203	4034.38	52447	3671	56118	4139.16	53809	3767	57576
7	3955.88	51426	3600	55026	4165.46	54151	3791	57942	4270.24	55513	3886	59399
8	4113.14	53471	3743	57214	4322.66	56195	3934	60128	4427.46	57557	4029	61586
9	4270.16	55512	3886	59398	4479.72	58236	4077	62313	4584.54	59599	4172	63771
10	4427.44	57557	4029	61586	4637.04	60282	4220	64501	4741.76	61643	4315	65958
11	4597.74	59771	4184	63955	4807.28	62495	4375	66869	4912.08	63857	4470	68327
12	4754.84	61813	4327	66140	4964.40	64537	4518	69055	5069.20	65900	4613	70513
173
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3445.00	44785	3135	47920	3549.76
2	3602.20	46829	3278	50107	3706.98
3	3772.48	49042	3433	52475	3877.30
4	3929.74	51087	3576	54663	4034.54
5	4086.80	53128	3719	56847	4191.58
6	4244.00	55172	3862	59034	4348.74
7	4375.04	56876	3981	60857	4479.84
8	4532.24	58919	4124	63043	4637.06
9	4689.28	60961	4267	65228	4794.08
10	4846.60	63006	4410	67416	4951.40
11	5016.86	65219	4565	69785	5121.70
12	5174.00	67262	4708	71970	5278.80
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
46147	3230	49377	3654.54	47509	3326	50835
48191	3373	51564	3811.70	49552	3469	53021
50405	3528	53933	3982.08	51767	3624	55391
52449	3671	56120	4139.30	53811	3767	57578
54491	3814	58305	4296.36	55853	3910	59762
56534	3957	60491	4453.56	57896	4053	61949
58238	4077	62315	4584.64	59600	4172	63772
60282	4220	64502	4741.86	61644	4315	65959
62323	4363	66686	4898.84	63685	4458	68143
64368	4506	68874	5056.18	65730	4601	70331
66582	4661	71243	5226.44	67944	4756	72700
68624	4804	73428	5383.58	69987	4899	74886
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation time is granted in accordance with the provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2000
1A-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 40 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
174
			LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Step	Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
1	3161.62	33197	2324	35521	3380.62	35497	2485	37981	3490.14	36646	2565	39212
2	3325.92	34922	2445	37367	3544.86	37221	2605	39827	3654.40	38371	2686	41057
3	3503.78	36790	2575	39365	3722.76	39089	2736	41825	3832.20	40238	2817	43055
4	3668.06	38515	2696	41211	3887.04	40814	2857	43671	3996.48	41963	2937	44900
5	3832.22	40238	2817	43055	4051.24	42538	2978	45516	4160.78	43688	3058	46746
6	3996.54	41964	2937	44901	4215.52	44263	3098	47361	4325.00	45413	3179	48591
7	4133.36	43400	3038	46438	4352.34	45700	3199	48899	4461.84	46849	3279	50129
8	4297.64	45125	3159	48284	4516.62	47425	3320	50744	4626.10	48574	3400	51974
9	4461.86	46850	3279	50129	4680.82	49149	3440	52589	4790.36	50299	3521	53820
10	4626.10	48574	3400	51974	4845.06	50873	3561	54434	4954.52	52022	3642	55664
11	4804.02	50442	3531	53973	5023.00	52742	3692	56433	5132.50	53891	3772	57664
12	4968.26	52167	3652	55818	5187.28	54466	3813	58279	5296.74	55616	3893	59509
175
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3599.60	37796	2646	40442	3709.08
2	3763.84	39520	2766	42287	3873.32
3	3941.76	41388	2897	44286	4051.24
4	4106.02	43113	3018	46131	4215.52
5	4270.24	44838	3139	47976	4379.76
6	4434.48	46562	3259	49821	4543.98
7	4571.38	47999	3360	51359	4680.82
8	4735.60	49724	3481	53204	4845.08
9	4899.86	51449	3601	55050	5009.34
10	5064.10	53173	3722	56895	5173.56
11	5241.98	55041	3853	58894	5351.52
12	5406.24	56766	3974	60739	5515.72
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
38945	2726	41672	3818.62	40096	2807	42902
40670	2847	43517	3982.88	41820	2927	44748
42538	2978	45516	4160.74	43688	3058	46746
44263	3098	47361	4324.96	45412	3179	48591
45987	3219	49207	4489.24	47137	3300	50437
47712	3340	51052	4653.50	48862	3420	52282
49149	3440	52589	4790.34	50299	3521	53819
50873	3561	54434	4954.56	52023	3642	55664
52598	3682	56280	5118.82	53748	3762	57510
54322	3803	58125	5283.04	55472	3883	59355
56191	3933	60124	5460.98	57340	4014	61354
57915	4054	61969	5625.24	59065	4135	63200
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
176
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2000
1B-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 44 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
			LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Step	Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
1	3154.86	36281	2540	38821	3373.32	38793	2716	41509	3482.62	40050	2804	42854
2	3318.74	38166	2672	40837	3537.22	40678	2847	43525	3646.50	41935	2935	44870
3	3496.44	40209	2815	43024	3714.96	42722	2991	45713	3824.20	43978	3078	47057
4	3660.28	42093	2947	45040	3878.82	44606	3122	47729	3988.08	45863	3210	49073
5	3824.16	43978	3078	47056	4042.66	46491	3254	49745	4151.96	47748	3342	51090
6	3988.02	45862	3210	49073	4206.56	48375	3386	51762	4315.82	49632	3474	53106
7	4124.62	47433	3320	50753	4343.12	49946	3496	53442	4452.36	51202	3584	54786
8	4288.66	49320	3452	52772	4507.20	51833	3628	55461	4616.42	53089	3716	56805
9	4452.32	51202	3584	54786	4670.86	53715	3760	57475	4780.10	54971	3848	58819
10	4616.28	53087	3716	56803	4834.78	55600	3892	59492	4944.04	56856	3980	60836
11	4793.90	55130	3859	58989	5012.38	57642	4035	61677	5121.64	58899	4123	63022
12	4957.66	57013	3991	61004	5176.20	59526	4167	63693	5285.42	60782	4255	65037
177
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3591.88	41307	2891	44198	3701.18
2	3755.78	43191	3023	46215	3865.00
3	3933.46	45235	3166	48401	4042.70
4	4097.30	47119	3298	50417	4206.58
5	4261.22	49004	3430	52434	4370.50
6	4425.10	50889	3562	54451	4534.32
7	4561.64	52459	3672	56131	4670.88
8	4725.70	54346	3804	58150	4834.96
9	4889.38	56228	3936	60164	4998.66
10	5053.30	58113	4068	62181	5162.52
11	5230.88	60155	4211	64366	5340.14
12	5394.70	62039	4343	66382	5503.96
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
42564	2979	45543	3810.42	43820	3067	46887
44448	3111	47559	3974.24	45704	3199	48903
46491	3254	49745	4151.98	47748	3342	51090
48376	3386	51762	4315.84	49632	3474	53106
50261	3518	53779	4479.74	51517	3606	55123
52145	3650	55795	4643.62	53402	3738	57140
53715	3760	57475	4780.16	54972	3848	58820
55602	3892	59494	4944.22	56859	3980	60839
57485	4024	61509	5107.92	58741	4112	62853
59369	4156	63525	5271.82	60626	4244	64870
61412	4299	65710	5449.42	62668	4387	67055
63296	4431	67726	5613.24	64552	4519	69071
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 46 weeks of pay for 44 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1, 2000
1C-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 48 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
178
			LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Step	Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
1	3149.28	39366	2756	42122	3367.42	42093	2946	45039	3476.48	43456	3042	46498
2	3312.84	41411	2899	44309	3530.98	44137	3090	47227	3640.04	45501	3185	48686
3	3490.28	43629	3054	46682	3708.44	46356	3245	49600	3817.46	47718	3340	51059
4	3653.84	45673	3197	48870	3871.98	48400	3388	51788	3981.06	49763	3483	53247
5	3817.40	47718	3340	51058	4035.54	50444	3531	53975	4144.66	51808	3627	55435
6	3981.02	49763	3483	53246	4199.14	52489	3674	56163	4308.20	53853	3770	57622
7	4117.34	51467	3603	55069	4335.48	54194	3794	57987	4444.54	55557	3889	59446
8	4281.06	53513	3746	57259	4499.20	56240	3937	60177	4608.24	57603	4032	61635
9	4444.42	55555	3889	59444	4662.54	58282	4080	62361	4771.62	59645	4175	63820
10	4608.16	57602	4032	61634	4826.30	60329	4223	64552	4935.34	61692	4318	66010
11	4785.42	59818	4187	64005	5003.50	62544	4378	66922	5112.58	63907	4474	68381
12	4948.90	61861	4330	66192	5167.00	64588	4521	69109	5276.10	65951	4617	70568
179
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3585.54	44819	3137	47957	3694.60
2	3749.08	46864	3280	50144	3858.20
3	3926.54	49082	3436	52517	4035.58
4	4090.10	51126	3579	54705	4199.20
5	4253.68	53171	3722	56893	4362.78
6	4417.32	55217	3865	59082	4526.32
7	4553.62	56920	3984	60905	4662.64
8	4717.32	58967	4128	63094	4826.42
9	4880.68	61009	4271	65279	4989.76
10	5044.42	63055	4414	67469	5153.48
11	5221.62	65270	4569	69839	5330.72
12	5385.18	67315	4712	72027	5494.20
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
46183	3233	49415	3803.70	47546	3328	50874
48228	3376	51603	3967.20	49590	3471	53061
50445	3531	53976	4144.70	51809	3627	55435
52490	3674	56164	4308.24	53853	3770	57623
54535	3817	58352	4471.84	55898	3913	59811
56579	3961	60540	4635.40	57943	4056	61998
58283	4080	62363	4771.74	59647	4175	63822
60330	4223	64553	4935.50	61694	4319	66012
62372	4366	66738	5098.80	63735	4461	68196
64419	4509	68928	5262.60	65783	4605	70387
66634	4664	71298	5439.80	67998	4760	72757
68678	4807	73485	5603.28	70041	4903	74944
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2000
1D-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 52 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
180
			LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Step	Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
1	3086.36	40123	2809	42931	3300.10	42901	3003	45904	3406.98	44291	3100	47391
2	3246.66	42207	2954	45161	3460.44	44986	3149	48135	3567.32	46375	3246	49621
3	3420.42	44465	3113	47578	3634.20	47245	3307	50552	3741.04	48634	3404	52038
4	3580.82	46551	3259	49809	3794.60	49330	3453	52783	3901.46	50719	3550	54269
5	3740.96	48632	3404	52037	3954.72	51411	3599	55010	4061.64	52801	3696	56497
6	3901.32	50717	3550	54267	4115.06	53496	3745	57240	4221.94	54885	3842	58727
7	4035.00	52455	3672	56127	4248.76	55234	3866	59100	4355.64	56623	3964	60587
8	4195.40	54540	3818	58358	4409.12	57319	4012	61331	4516.00	58708	4110	62818
9	4355.56	56622	3964	60586	4569.32	59401	4158	63559	4676.24	60791	4255	65046
10	4515.98	58708	4110	62817	4729.78	61487	4304	65791	4836.60	62876	4401	67277
11	4689.70	60966	4268	65234	4903.42	63744	4462	68207	5010.32	65134	4559	69694
12	4849.94	63049	4413	67463	5063.68	65828	4608	70436	5170.58	67218	4705	71923
LANE IV	LANE V	LANE VI
Master’s plus 30	Master’s plus 45
Semester Hours of	Semester Hours of	Doctorate Degree
Approved Graduate Credit	Approved Graduate Credit	(Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
			Pen-				Pen-				Pen-	
			sion				sion				sion	
			Pick-	Total			Pick-	Total			Pick-	Total
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.
1	3513.90	45681	3198	48878	3620.76	47070	3295	50365	3727.64	48459	3392	51851
2	3674.24	47765	3344	51109	3781.12	49155	3441	52595	3887.94	50543	3538	54081
3	3847.92	50023	3502	53525	3954.84	51413	3599	55012	4061.72	52802	3696	56499
4	4008.34	52108	3648	55756	4115.24	53498	3745	57243	4222.08	54887	3842	58729
5	4168.54	54191	3793	57984	4275.42	55580	3891	59471	4382.28	56970	3988	60958
6	4328.88	56275	3939	60215	4435.72	57664	4037	61701	4542.64	59054	4134	63188
® 7	4462.54	58013	4061	62074	4569.44	59403	4158	63561	4676.34	60792	4255	65048
8	4622.88	60097	4207	64304	4729.80	61487	4304	65792	4836.70	62877	4401	67278
9	4783.06	62180	4353	66532	4889.96	63569	4450	68019	4996.82	64959	4547	69506
10	4943.54	64266	4499	68765	5050.42	65655	4596	70251	5157.30	67045	4693	71738
11	5117.20	66524	4657	71180	5224.14	67914	4754	72668	5330.96	69302	4851	74154
12	5277.48	68607	4803	73410	5384.38	69997	4900	74897	5491.26	71386	4997	76383
The column entitled		“Annual”	reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation time is granted in accordance with the									
provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2000
1A-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 40 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
182
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5016.96 52678 3687 56366
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5459.24 57322 4013 61335
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5238.12 55000 3850	58850
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp. 5569.78 58483 4094 62576
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5348.66	56161 3931	60092
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5680.38	59644 4175 63819
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2000
1B-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 44 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
183
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5006.28 57572 4030 61602
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5447.58 62647 4385 67032
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5226.94 60110 4208	64317
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp. 5557.92 63916 4474 68390
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual	Pick-up Comp.
5337.24	61378 4296 65675
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual	Pick-up Comp.
5668.28	65185 4563 69748
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 46 weeks of pay for 44 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2000
1C-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 48 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
184
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
4997.42 62468 4373 66840
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5437.96 67975 4758 72733
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5217.66 65221	4565	69786
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5548.08 69351	4855	74206
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5327.82	66598 4662 71260
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5658.22	70728 4951	75679
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2000
1D-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 52 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
185
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
4897.48 63667 4457 68124
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5329.22 69280 4850 74129
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5113.34 66473 4653	71127
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5437.16 70683 4948	75631
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5221.28	67877 4751	72628
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5545.08	72086 5046 77132
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation time is granted in accordance with the provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
186
1A-1.
Step 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11
12
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2001
Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 40 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
		LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
3224.86	33861	2370	36231	3448.24	36207	2534	38741	3559.94	37379	2617	39996
3392.44	35621	2493	38114	3615.76	37965	2658	40623	3727.48	39139	2740	41878
3573.86	37526	2627	40152	3797.22	39871	2791	42662	3908.84	41043	2873	43916
3741.42	39285	2750	42035	3964.78	41630	2914	44544	4076.40	42802	2996	45798
3908.86	41043	2873	43916	4132.26	43389	3037	46426	4244.00	44562	3119	47681
4076.48	42803	2996	45799	4299.84	45148	3160	48309	4411.50	46321	3242	49563
4216.02	44268	3099	47367	4439.38	46613	3263	49876	4551.08	47786	3345	51131
4383.60	46028	3222	49250	4606.96	48373	3386	51759	4718.62	49546	3468	53014
4551.10	47787	3345	51132	4774.44	50132	3509	53641	4886.16	51305	3591	54896
4718.62	49546	3468	53014	4941.96	51891	3632	55523	5053.62	53063	3714	56777
4900.10	51451	3602	55053	5123.46	53796	3766	57562	5235.16	54969	3848	58817
5067.62	53210	3725	56935	5291.02	55556	3889	59445	5402.68	56728	3971	60699
187
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3671.60	38552	2699	41250	3783.26
2	3839.12	40311	2822	43133	3950.78
3	4020.60	42216	2955	45171	4132.26
4	4188.14	43975	3078	47054	4299.84
5	4355.64	45734	3201	48936	4467.36
6	4523.16	47493	3325	50818	4634.86
7	4662.80	48959	3427	52387	4774.44
8	4830.32	50718	3550	54269	4941.98
9	4997.86	52478	3673	56151	5109.52
10	5165.38	54236	3797	58033	5277.04
11	5346.82	56142	3930	60072	5458.56
12	5514.36	57901	4053	61954	5626.04
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
39724	2781	42505	3895.00	40898	2863	43760
41483	2904	44387	4062.54	42657	2986	45643
43389	3037	46426	4243.96	44562	3119	47681
45148	3160	48309	4411.46	46320	3242	49563
46907	3284	50191	4579.02	48080	3366	51445
48666	3407	52073	4746.58	49839	3489	53328
50132	3509	53641	4886.14	51304	3591	54896
51891	3632	55523	5053.66	53063	3714	56778
53650	3755	57405	5221.20	54823	3838	58660
55409	3879	59288	5388.70	56581	3961	60542
57315	4012	61327	5570.20	58487	4094	62581
59073	4135	63209	5737.74	60246	4217	64464
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
188
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2001
1B-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 44 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
			LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Step	Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
1	3217.96	37007	2590	39597	3440.78	39569	2770	42339	3552.28	40851	2860	43711
2	3385.12	38929	2725	41654	3607.96	41492	2904	44396	3719.44	42774	2994	45768
3	3566.36	41013	2871	43884	3789.26	43576	3050	46627	3900.68	44858	3140	47998
4	3733.48	42935	3005	45940	3956.40	45499	3185	48684	4067.84	46780	3275	50055
5	3900.64	44857	3140	47997	4123.52	47420	3319	50740	4235.00	48703	3409	52112
6	4067.78	46779	3275	50054	4290.70	49343	3454	52797	4402.14	50625	3544	54168
7	4207.12	48382	3387	51769	4429.98	50945	3566	54511	4541.40	52226	3656	55882
8	4374.44	50306	3521	53827	4597.34	52869	3701	56570	4708.74	54151	3791	57941
9	4541.36	52226	3656	55881	4764.28	54789	3835	58624	4875.70	56071	3925	59995
10	4708.60	54149	3790	57939	4931.48	56712	3970	60682	5042.92	57994	4060	62053
11	4889.78	56232	3936	60169	5112.62	58795	4116	62911	5224.08	60077	4205	64282
12	5056.82	58153	4071	62224	5279.72	60717	4250	64967	5391.12	61998	4340	66338
189
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3663.72	42133	2949	45082	3775.20
2	3830.90	44055	3084	47139	3942.30
3	4012.12	46139	3230	49369	4123.56
4	4179.24	48061	3364	51426	4290.72
5	4346.44	49984	3499	53483	4457.92
6	4513.60	51906	3633	55540	4625.00
7	4652.88	53508	3746	57254	4764.30
8	4820.22	55433	3880	59313	4931.66
9	4987.16	57352	4015	61367	5098.64
10	5154.36	59275	4149	63424	5265.78
11	5335.50	61358	4295	65653	5446.94
12	5502.60	63280	4430	67709	5614.04
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
43415	3039	46454	3886.62	44696	3129	47825
45336	3174	48510	4053.72	46618	3263	49881
47421	3319	50740	4235.02	48703	3409	52112
49343	3454	52797	4402.16	50625	3544	54169
51266	3589	54855	4569.34	52547	3678	56226
53188	3723	56911	4736.50	54470	3813	58283
54789	3835	58625	4875.76	56071	3925	59996
56714	3970	60684	5043.10	57996	4060	62055
58634	4104	62739	5210.08	59916	4194	64110
60556	4239	64795	5377.26	61838	4329	66167
62640	4385	67025	5558.40	63922	4475	68396
64561	4519	69081	5725.50	65843	4609	70452
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 46 weeks of pay for 44 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
190
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2001
1C-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 48 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
			LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Step	Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
1	3212.26	40153	2811	42964	3434.76	42935	3005	45940	3546.00	44325	3103	47428
2	3379.10	42239	2957	45195	3601.60	45020	3151	48171	3712.84	46411	3249	49659
3	3560.08	44501	3115	47616	3782.60	47283	3310	50592	3893.80	48673	3407	52080
4	3726.92	46587	3261	49848	3949.42	49368	3456	52823	4060.68	50759	3553	54312
5	3893.74	48672	3407	52079	4116.26	51453	3602	55055	4227.56	52845	3699	56544
6	4060.64	50758	3553	54311	4283.12	53539	3748	57287	4394.36	54930	3845	58775
7	4199.68	52496	3675	56171	4422.18	55277	3869	59147	4533.44	56668	3967	60635
8	4366.68	54584	3821	58404	4589.18	57365	4016	61380	4700.40	58755	4113	62868
9	4533.30	56666	3967	60633	4755.80	59448	4161	63609	4867.06	60838	4259	65097
10	4700.32	58754	4113	62867	4922.82	61535	4307	65843	5034.04	62926	4405	67330
11	4881.12	61014	4271	65285	5103.58	63795	4466	68260	5214.84	65186	4563	69748
12	5047.88	63099	4417	67515	5270.34	65879	4612	70491	5381.62	67270	4709	71979
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Step Monthly Annual
1	3657.26	45716
2	3824.06	47801
3	4005.08	50064
4	4171.90	52149
5	4338.76	54235
6	4505.66	56321
2 7	4644.70	58059
8	4811.66	60146
9	4978.30	62229
10	5145.30	64316
11	5326.06	66576
12	5492.88	68661
Pen-		
sion		
Pick-	Total	
up	Comp.	Monthly
3200	48916	3768.50
3346	51147	3935.36
3504	53568	4116.30
3650	55799	4283.18
3796	58031	4450.04
3942	60263	4616.84
4064	62123	4755.90
4210	64156	4922.94
4356	66585	5089.56
4502	68818	5256.54
4660	71236	5437.34
4806	73467	5604.08
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Pick- Total Annual up Comp.
47106 3297 50404
49192 3443 52635
51454 3602 55056
53540 3748 57288
55626 3894 59519
57711	4040	61750
59449 4161	63610
61537 4308 65844
63620 4453 68073
65707 4599 70306
67967 4758 72724
70051	4904	74955
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pen-			
		sion	
		Pick-	Total
Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.
3879.78	48497	3395	51892
4046.54	50582	3541	54122
4227.60	52845	3699	56544
4394.40	54930	3845	58775
4561.28	57016	3991	61007
4728.10	59101	4137	63238
4867.18	60840	4259	65099
5034.22	62928	4405	67333
5200.78	65010	4551	69560
5367.86	67098	4697	71795
5548.60	69358	4855	74213
5715.34	71442	5001	76443
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
1D-1.
Step 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2001
Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 52 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
LANE I	LANE II	LANE III
		Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of
Bachelor’s Degree	Master’s Degree	Approved Graduate Credit
192
		Pension Pick-	Total	Pension Pick-			Total	Pension Pick-			Total
Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.
3148.08	40925	2865	43790	3366.10	43759	3063	46822	3475.12	45177	3162	48339
3311.60	43051	3014	46064	3529.64	45885	3212	49097	3638.66	47303	3311	50614
3488.82	45355	3175	48529	3706.88	48189	3373	51563	3815.86	49606	3472	53079
3652.44	47482	3324	50805	3870.50	50317	3522	53839	3979.48	51733	3621	55355
3815.78	49605	3472	53077	4033.82	52440	3671	56110	4142.88	53857	3770	57627
3979.34	51731	3621	55353	4197.36	54566	3820	58385	4306.38	55983	3919	59902
4115.70	53504	3745	57249	4333.74	56339	3944	60282	4442.76	57756	4043	61799
4279.30	55631	3894	59525	4497.30	58465	4093	62557	4606.32	59882	4192	64074
4442.68	57755	4043	61798	4660.70	60589	4241	64830	4769.76	62007	4340	66347
4606.30	59882	4192	64074	4824.38	62717	4390	67107	4933.34	64133	4489	68623
4783.50	62186	4353	66538	5001.48	65019	4551	69571	5110.52	66437	4651	71087
4946.94	64310	4502	68812	5164.96	67144	4700	71845	5274.00	68562	4799	73361
193
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3584.18	46594	3262	49856	3693.18
2	3747.72	48720	3410	52131	3856.74
3	3924.88	51023	3572	54595	4033.94
4	4088.50	53151	3721	56871	4197.54
5	4251.92	55275	3869	59144	4360.92
6	4415.46	57401	4018	61419	4524.44
7	4551.80	59173	4142	63316	4660.82
8	4715.34	61299	4291	65590	4824.40
9	4878.72	63423	4440	67863	4987.76
10	5042.42	65551	4589	70140	5151.42
11	5219.54	67854	4750	72604	5328.62
12	5383.02	69979	4899	74878	5492.06
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
48011	3361	51372	3802.20	49429	3460	52889
50138	3510	53647	3965.70	51554	3609	55163
52441	3671	56112	4142.96	53858	3770	57629
54568	3820	58388	4306.52	55985	3919	59904
56692	3968	60660	4469.92	58109	4068	62177
58818	4117	62935	4633.50	60236	4216	64452
60591	4241	64832	4769.86	62008	4341	66349
62717	4390	67107	4933.44	64135	4489	68624
64841	4539	69380	5096.76	66258	4638	70896
66968	4688	71656	5260.44	68386	4787	73173
69272	4849	74121	5437.58	70689	4948	75637
71397	4998	76395	5601.08	72814	5097	77911
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation time is granted in accordance with the provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2001
1A-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 40 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
194
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5167.46 54258 3798 58056
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5623.02 59042 4133 63175
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5395.26 56650 3966	60616
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp. 5736.88 60237 4217 64454
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual	Pick-up Comp.
5509.12	57846 4049 61895
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual	Pick-up Comp.
5850.80	61433 4300 65734
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2001
1B-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 44 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
195
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5156.46 59299 4151	63450
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5611.00 64527 4517 69043
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5383.74 61913 4334	66247
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp. 5724.66 65834 4608 70442
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5497.36	63220 4425 67645
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5838.32	67141 4700 71841
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 46 weeks of pay for 44 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2001
1C-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 48 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
196
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5147.34 64342 4504 68846
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5601.10 70014 4901	74915
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5374.18 67177 4702	71880
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp. 5714.52 71432 5000 76432
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual	Pick-up Comp.
5487.66	68596 4802 73397
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual	Pick-up Comp.
5827.96	72850 5099 77949
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2001
1D-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 52 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
197
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5044.40 65577 4590 70168
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5489.10 71358 4995 76353
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5266.74 68468 4793	73260
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5600.28 72804 5096	77900
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual	Pick-up Comp.
5377.92	69913 4894 74807
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual	Pick-up Comp.
5711.44	74249 5197 79446
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation time is granted in accordance with the provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
198
1A-1.
Step 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11
12
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2002
Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 40 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
		LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
3289.36	34538	2418	36956	3517.20	36931	2585	39516	3631.14	38127	2669	40796
3460.28	36333	2543	38876	3688.08	38725	2711	41436	3802.02	39921	2794	42716
3645.34	38276	2679	40955	3873.16	40668	2847	43515	3987.02	41864	2930	44794
3816.24	40071	2805	42875	4044.08	42463	2972	45435	4157.92	43658	3056	46714
3987.04	41864	2930	44794	4214.90	44256	3098	47354	4328.88	45453	3182	48635
4158.00	43659	3056	46715	4385.84	46051	3224	49275	4499.74	47247	3307	50555
4300.34	45154	3161	48314	4528.16	47546	3328	50874	4642.10	48742	3412	52154
4471.28	46948	3286	50235	4699.10	49341	3454	52794	4813.00	50537	3538	54074
4642.12	48742	3412	52154	4869.92	51134	3579	54714	4983.88	52331	3663	55994
4813.00	50537	3538	54074	5040.80	52928	3705	56633	5154.70	54124	3789	57913
4998.10	52480	3674	56154	5225.92	54872	3841	58713	5339.86	56069	3925	59993
5168.98	54274	3799	58073	5396.84	56667	3967	60633	5510.74	57863	4050	61913
199
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3745.04	39323	2753	42076	3858.92
2	3915.90	41117	2878	43995	4029.80
3	4101.02	43061	3014	46075	4214.90
4	4271.90	44855	3140	47995	4385.84
5	4442.76	46649	3265	49914	4556.70
6	4613.62	48443	3391	51834	4727.56
7	4756.06	49939	3496	53434	4869.92
8	4926.92	51733	3621	55354	5040.82
9	5097.82	53527	3747	57274	5211.72
10	5268.68	55321	3872	59194	5382.58
11	5453.76	57264	4009	61273	5567.74
12	5624.64	59059	4134	63193	5738.56
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
40519	2836	43355	3972.90	41715	2920	44636
42313	2962	45275	4143.80	43510	3046	46556
44256	3098	47354	4328.84	45453	3182	48635
46051	3224	49275	4499.68	47247	3307	50554
47845	3349	51195	4670.60	49041	3433	52474
49639	3475	53114	4841.52	50836	3559	54394
51134	3579	54714	4983.86	52331	3663	55994
52929	3705	56634	5154.74	54125	3789	57914
54723	3831	58554	5325.62	55919	3914	59833
56517	3956	60473	5496.48	57713	4040	61753
58461	4092	62554	5681.60	59657	4176	63833
60255	4218	64473	5852.50	61451	4302	65753
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
200
1B-1.
Step 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11
12
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2002
Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 44 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
		LANE I			LANE II				LANE III		
Monthly	Bachelor’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Monthly	Master’s Degree Pension Pick-	Total Annual	up	Comp.			Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total Monthly Annual	up	Comp.			
3282.32	37747	2642	40389	3509.60	40360	2825	43186	3623.32	41668	2917	44585
3452.82	39707	2780	42487	3680.12	42321	2962	45284	3793.82	43629	3054	46683
3637.68	41833	2928	44762	3865.04	44448	3111	47559	3978.70	45755	3203	48958
3808.14	43794	3066	46859	4035.52	46408	3249	49657	4149.20	47716	3340	51056
3978.66	45755	3203	48957	4206.00	48369	3386	51755	4319.70	49677	3477	53154
4149.14	47715	3340	51055	4376.52	50330	3523	53853	4490.18	51637	3615	55252
4291.26	49349	3454	52804	4518.58	51964	3637	55601	4632.22	53271	3729	56999
4461.92	51312	3592	54904	4689.28	53927	3775	57702	4802.92	55234	3866	59100
4632.18	53270	3729	56999	4859.56	55885	3912	59797	4973.22	57192	4003	61195
4802.78	55232	3866	59098	5030.10	57846	4049	61895	5143.78	59153	4141	63294
4987.58	57357	4015	61372	5214.88	59971	4198	64169	5328.56	61278	4289	65568
5157.96	59317	4152	63469	5385.32	61931	4335	66266	5498.94	63238	4427	67664
201
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3737.00	42976	3008	45984	3850.70
2	3907.52	44936	3146	48082	4021.14
3	4092.36	47062	3294	50356	4206.04
4	4262.82	49022	3432	52454	4376.54
5	4433.36	50984	3569	54552	4547.08
6	4603.88	52945	3706	56651	4717.50
7	4745.94	54578	3820	58399	4859.58
8	4916.62	56541	3958	60499	5030.30
9	5086.90	58499	4095	62594	5200.62
10	5257.44	60461	4232	64693	5371.10
11	5442.22	62586	4381	66967	5555.88
12	5612.66	64546	4518	69064	5726.32
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
44283	3100	47383	3964.36	45590	3191	48781
46243	3237	49480	4134.80	47550	3329	50879
48369	3386	51755	4319.72	49677	3477	53154
50330	3523	53853	4490.20	51637	3615	55252
52291	3660	55952	4660.72	53598	3752	57350
54251	3798	58049	4831.24	55559	3889	59448
55885	3912	59797	4973.28	57193	4003	61196
57848	4049	61898	5143.96	59156	4141	63296
59807	4186	63994	5314.28	61114	4278	65392
61768	4324	66091	5484.80	63075	4415	67490
63893	4472	68365	5669.56	65200	4564	69764
65853	4610	70462	5840.02	67160	4701	71861
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 46 weeks of pay for 44 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
1C-1.
Step 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2002
Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 48 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
LANE I	LANE II	LANE III
		Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of
Bachelor’s Degree	Master’s Degree	Approved Graduate Credit
202
		Pension Pick-	Total	Pension Pick-			Total	Pension Pick-			Total
Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.
3276.50	40956	2867	43823	3503.46	43793	3066	46859	3616.92	45212	3165	48376
3446.68	43084	3016	46099	3673.64	45921	3214	49135	3787.10	47339	3314	50652
3631.28	45391	3177	48568	3858.26	48228	3376	51604	3971.68	49646	3475	53121
3801.46	47518	3326	50845	4028.40	50355	3525	53880	4141.90	51774	3624	55398
3971.62	49645	3475	53120	4198.58	52482	3674	56156	4312.12	53902	3773	57675
4141.86	51773	3624	55397	4368.78	54610	3823	58432	4482.24	56028	3922	59950
4283.68	53546	3748	57294	4510.62	56383	3947	60330	4624.10	57801	4046	61847
4454.02	55675	3897	59573	4680.96	58512	4096	62608	4794.40	59930	4195	64125
4623.96	57800	4046	61845	4850.92	60637	4245	64881	4964.40	62055	4344	66399
4794.32	59929	4195	64124	5021.28	62766	4394	67160	5134.72	64184	4493	68677
4978.74	62234	4356	66591	5205.66	65071	4555	69626	5319.14	66489	4654	71143
5148.84	64361	4505	68866	5375.74	67197	4704	71901	5489.26	68616	4803	73419
203
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3730.40	46630	3264	49894	3843.88
2	3900.54	48757	3413	52170	4014.06
3	4085.18	51065	3575	54639	4198.62
4	4255.34	53192	3723	56915	4368.84
5	4425.54	55319	3872	59192	4539.04
6	4595.78	57447	4021	61469	4709.18
7	4737.60	59220	4145	63365	4851.02
8	4907.90	61349	4294	65643	5021.40
9	5077.86	63473	4443	67916	5191.36
10	5248.20	65603	4592	70195	5361.68
11	5432.58	67907	4754	72661	5546.08
12	5602.74	70034	4902	74937	5716.16
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
48049	3363	51412	3957.38	49467	3463	52930
50176	3512	53688	4127.48	51594	3612	55205
52483	3674	56157	4312.16	53902	3773	57675
54611	3823	58433	4482.28	56029	3922	59950
56738	3972	60710	4652.50	58156	4071	62227
58865	4121	62985	4822.66	60283	4220	64503
60638	4245	64882	4964.52	62057	4344	66400
62768	4394	67161	5134.90	64186	4493	68679
64892	4542	69434	5304.80	66310	4642	70952
67021	4691	71712	5475.22	68440	4791	73231
69326	4853	74179	5659.58	70745	4952	75697
71452	5002	76454	5829.64	72871	5101	77971
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
1D-1.
Step 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education Effective July 1,2002
Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 52 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
LANE I	LANE II	LANE III
		Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of
Bachelor’s Degree	Master’s Degree	Approved Graduate Credit
204
		Pension Pick-	Total	Pension Pick-			Total	Pension Pick-			Total
Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.
3211.04	41744	2922	44666	3433.42	44634	3124	47759	3544.62	46080	3226	49306
3377.84	43912	3074	46986	3600.24	46803	3276	50079	3711.44	48249	3377	51626
3558.60	46262	3238	49500	3781.02	49153	3441	52594	3892.18	50598	3542	54140
3725.48	48431	3390	51821	3947.92	51323	3593	54916	4059.06	52768	3694	56462
3892.10	50597	3542	54139	4114.50	53489	3744	57233	4225.74	54935	3845	58780
4058.92	52766	3694	56460	4281.30	55657	3896	59553	4392.50	57103	3997	61100
4198.02	54574	3820	58394	4420.42	57465	4023	61488	4531.62	58911	4124	63035
4364.88	56743	3972	60715	4587.24	59634	4174	63809	4698.44	61080	4276	65355
4531.54	58910	4124	63034	4753.92	61801	4326	66127	4865.16	63247	4427	67674
4698.42	61079	4276	65355	4920.86	63971	4478	68449	5032.00	65416	4579	69995
4879.18	63429	4440	67869	5101.50	66320	4642	70962	5212.74	67766	4744	72509
5045.88	65596	4592	70188	5268.26	68487	4794	73281	5379.48	69933	4895	74829
205
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pen-					
			sion		
			Pick-	Total	
Step	Monthly	Annual	up	Comp.	Monthly
1	3655.86	47526	3327	50853	3767.04
2	3822.68	49695	3479	53173	3933.88
3	4003.38	52044	3643	55687	4114.62
4	4170.28	54214	3795	58009	4281.50
5	4336.96	56380	3947	60327	4448.14
6	4503.76	58549	4098	62647	4614.92
7	4642.84	60357	4225	64582	4754.04
8	4809.64	62525	4377	66902	4920.88
9	4976.30	64692	4528	69220	5087.52
10	5143.26	66862	4680	71543	5254.44
11	5323.94	69211	4845	74056	5435.20
12	5490.68	71379	4997	76375	5601.90
LANE V Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of			LANE VI			
			Doctorate		Degree	
Approved Annual	Graduate Credit Pension Pick-	Total up	Comp.		Monthly	(Ph.D. or Annual	Ed.D.) Pension Pickup	Total Comp.
48972	3428	52400	3878.24	50417	3529	53946
51140	3580	54720	4045.02	52585	3681	56266
53490	3744	57234	4225.82	54936	3845	58781
55660	3896	59556	4392.66	57105	3997	61102
57826	4048	61874	4559.32	59271	4149	63420
59994	4200	64194	4726.18	61440	4301	65741
61803	4326	66129	4865.26	63248	4427	67676
63971	4478	68449	5032.10	65417	4579	69997
66138	4630	70767	5198.70	67583	4731	72314
68308	4782	73089	5365.64	69753	4883	74636
70658	4946	75604	5546.34	72102	5047	77150
72825	5098	77922	5713.10	74270	5199	79469
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation time is granted in accordance with the provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2002
1A-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 40 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
206
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5322.48 55886 3912 59798
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5791.72 60813 4257 65070
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5557.12 58350 4084	62434
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp. 5908.98 62044 4343 66387
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5674.40	59581 4171	63752
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
6026.32	63276 4429 67706
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2002
1B-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 44 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
207
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5311.16 61078 4275 65354
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5779.34 66462 4652 71115
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5545.26 63770 4464	68234
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5896.40 67809 4747	72555
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5662.28	65116 4558 69674
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
6013.46	69155 4841	73996
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 46 weeks of pay for 44 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2002
1C-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 48 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
208
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5301.76 66272 4639 70911
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5769.14 72114 5048 77162
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5535.40 69193 4843	74036
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp. 5885.96 73575 5150 78725
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual	Pick-up Comp.
5652.28	70654 4946 75599
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual	Pick-up Comp.
6002.80	75035 5252 80287
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
CHICAGO PUBLIC SCHOOLS Salary Schedule for Regularly Appointed Teachers* — Elementary and Secondary Education THAT WERE AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR
Effective July 1,2002
1D-1. Basic schedule of school month salaries and annual salaries based on a 6-hour day during the regular school term of 52 weeks for regularly appointed members of the teaching staff holding regular certificates: elementary, high school, trade and vocational.
209
LANE I
Bachelor’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5195.74 67545 4728 72273
LANE IV
Master’s plus 30 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly Annual Pick-up Comp.
5653.78 73499 5145 78644
LANE II
Master’s Degree Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5424.74 70522 4937	75458
LANE V
Master’s plus 45 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total Monthly	Annual Pick-up	Comp.
5768.28 74988 5249	80237
LANE III
Master’s plus 15 Semester Hours of Approved Graduate Credit
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5539.26	72010 5041	77051
LANE VI
Doctorate Degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.)
Pension Total
Monthly	Annual Pick-up Comp.
5882.78	76476 5353 81829
The column entitled “Annual” reflects the annual salary rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation time is granted in accordance with the provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1) which has been rounded to the nearest dollar is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects the total compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
’This schedule has been amended to include the five professional development days provided for in Article 44-31.
2.	Full-Time-Basis Substitute Teachers. Teachers who hold temporary teaching permits (other than provisional permits) who are employed as full-time-basis substitutes shall be eligible to receive salary adjustments up to and including the second step of the appropriate lane on the appropriate salary schedule to allow credit for prior service as a full-time-day school teacher in the Chicago public schools or in schools outside the Chicago public school system provided, however, that the provisions of Section 4-28 of the Rules of the Board of Education covering salary adjustments are met and an application (Salary Adjustment T. Per. 41) and, if outside time is involved, an affidavit (Affidavit From T. Per. 42) are filed with the Bureau of Teacher Personnel.
To be eligible for a salary adjustment based on teaching experience in the Chicago public schools effective on the date of employment, full-time-basis substitute teachers must make proper claim to the Bureau of Teacher Personnel within 60 days of the date of employment. After 60 days, the effective date for salary adjustment based on teaching experience in the Chicago public schools shall be the date proper claim is received in the Bureau of Teacher Personnel.
Salary step adjustments for outside teaching experience for full-time-basis substitute teachers shall be made effective from the date of employment provided that proper claim and documentary proof are on file within 90 days of employment. After 90 days of employment the effective date for salary adjustment becomes the date on which the application and affidavit are received in the Bureau of Teacher Personnel.
Teachers who hold temporary teaching permits (other than provisional permits) who are employed as full-time-basis (FTB) substitutes and who agree to apply for placement on an Academically Qualified List as soon as it is established by the Bureau of Recruitment Certification shall also be eligible for an additional salary adjustment up to and including the third step of the appropriate lane on the appropriate salary schedule provided, however, that they have not had such a salary adjustment at a previous time and that the provisions of Section 4-28 of the Rules of the Board of Education covering salary adjustment are met and an application (Salary Adjustment T. Per. 41) and, if outside time is involved, an affidavit (Affidavit Form T. Per. 42) are filed in the Bureau of Teacher Personnel.
210
Any full-time-basis substitute teacher who has had the abovementioned salary adjustment and who fails to qualify for placement on an Academically Qualified List within one year if established by the Bureau of Recruitment Certification shall revert to the full-time-basis (FTB) substitute teacher's appropriate step and lane but no higher than step two.
Teachers on existing eligibility lists, who are employed as full-time-basis (FTB) substitutes shall also be eligible for the above-cited additional salary adjustment up to and including the third step of the appropriate lane, provided, however, that they have not had such a salary adjustment at a previous time and that the provisions of Section 4-28 of the Rules of the Board of Education covering salary adjustment are met and an application (Salary Adjustment T. Per. 41) and, if outside time is involved, an affidavit (Affidavit Form T. Per. 42) is filed with the Bureau of Teacher Personnel.
3.	Day-to-Day Substitute Teachers.
A.	The title day-to-day substitute is used to designate all other temporarily certificated teachers (excluding Cadre substitutes) not employed on a full-time basis and includes all teachers holding provisional certificates regardless of length of service, 100-day pensioners, and regularly certified teachers who have waived appointment on their regular certificates.
Elementary, High, Trade, and Vocational Schools:
Effective July 1,1999	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day.............................$ 97.63*
8-hourday ............................. 116.21*
Effective July 1,2000	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day.............................$ 99.58*
8-hourday ............................. 118.54*
Effective July 1,2001	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day ............................$101.57*
8-hourday ............................. 120.90*
Effective July 1,2002	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day ............................$103.60*
8-hourday ............................. 123.32*
‘After 100 days of service , the following flat rate per day shall be paid for services rendered:
211
Effective July 1,1999
6-hourday ..........
8-hourday ..........
Effective July 1,2000
6-hourday ..........
8-hourday ..........
Effective July 1,2001
6-hourday ..........
8-hourday ..........
Effective July 1,2002
6-hourday ..........
8-hourday ..........
Flat Rate per Day ....$102.30 .... 120.90
Flat Rate per Day
.....$104.34
..... 123.32
Flat Rate per Day
.....$106.43
..... 125.78
Flat Rate per Day ....$108.56 .... 128.30
B.	Psychologists employed under the 100-day provision for retired teachers are paid:
Effective July 1,1999	Flat Rate per Day
6-hourday................................$ 97.03
Effective July 1,2000	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day...............................$ 98.97
Effective July 1,2001	Flat Rate per Day
6-hourday................................$100.95
Effective July 1,2002	Flat Rate per Day
6-hourday................................$102.96
4.	Provisionally Certified Teachers.
A.	Provisionally certified teachers employed as day-to-day substitute teachers are paid:
Effective July 1,1999	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day................................$72.32
Effective July 1,2000	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day................................$73.76
Effective July 1,2001	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day................................$75.24
Effective July 1,2002	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day................................$76.74
B.	Provisionally certified teachers employed in a full teaching position on a full-time basis are paid:
Effective July 1,1999	Flat Rate per day
6-hour-day.................................$97.63
212
Effective July 1,2000	Flat Rate per day
6-hour-day...............................$ 99.58
Effective July 1,2001	Flat Rate per day
6-hour-day...............................$101.58
Effective July 1,2002	Flat Rate per day
6-hour-day...............................$103.60
5.	Provisionally Certified School Social Workers. Provisionally certified school social workers are paid on a flat rate salary basis providing they hold a master's degree in social work from a fully accredited institution (accredited by National Council on Social Work Education) with a sequence in case work and meet state requirements for full approval as a school social worker.
Effective July 1,1999	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day...............................$82.81
Effective July 1,2000	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day...............................$84.46
Effective July 1,2001	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day...............................$86.16
Effective July 1,2002	Flat Rate per Day
6-hour day...............................$87.88
6.	Provisionally Certified School Psychologists. Not applicable since the BOARD does not presently employ provisionally certified school psychologists.
7.	Emeritus Teachers. Not applicable since the BOARD does not presently employ emeritus teachers.
8.	High school teachers employed on an approved overtime basis shall be paid on a pro-rata basis of their basic salary for each period per day in excess of:
6 for a 7-period day ................16 % percent
7 for an 8-period day ................143Zo	percent
8 for a 9-period day.................12 % percent
9.	M.A.T. (Master of Arts in Teaching) Program. Teachers serving on temporary certificates in the M.A.T. program receive a pro-rate salary of a first-year teacher (Lane I, Step 1) on the appropriate schedule as determined by that portion of the teaching program they carry.
213
10.	Trade and Vocational School Teachers (including Cooperative Work Programs and Teachers in Vocational Home Economics Programs). Eight-hour/extended day trade and vocational teachers (including cooperative work program teachers and teachers in vocational home economics programs) shall be paid their basic salary plus 20 percent.
11.	Head Teachers (Branch Schools).
Effective January 1 of each year, in addition to monthly basic salary as a teacher, a head teacher shall be paid an increment according to the number of teachers on the staff the head teacher supervises, as determined by the last previous October enrollment report of the school, as follows:
Effective July 1,1999
Weeks of Employment Number of
Teachers	40 Weeks	48 Weeks	52 Weeks
2 -3	$43.88	$43.76	$42.84
3.1 -7	65.88	65.60	64.36
7.1 or more	87.80	87.44	85.72
Effective July 1,2000			
Number of			
Teachers	40 Weeks	48 Weeks	52 Weeks
2 -3	$44.76	$44.64	$43.70
3.1 -7	67.20	66.91	65.65
7.1 or more	89.56	89.19	87.43
Effective July 1,2001			
Number of			
Teachers	40 Weeks	48 Weeks	52 Weeks
2 -3	$45.65	$45.53	$44.57
3.1 -7	68.54	68.25	66.96
7.1 or more	91.35	90.97	89.18
Effective July 1,2002			
Number of			
Teachers	40 Weeks	48 Weeks	52 Weeks
2 -3	$46.57	$46.44	$45.46
3.1 -7	69.91	69.62	68.30
7.1 or more	93.17	92.79	90.97
In addition to regular salary, an acting head teacher shall re-			
ceive the following increment based on the number of weeks			
214
of employment budgeted for said position:
Effective July 1,1999
Weeks of Employment	Per Month
40	$21.96
48	21.84
52	21.40
Effective July 1,2000	
Weeks of Employment	Per Month
40	$22.40
48	22.28
52	21.83
Effective July 1,2001	
Weeks of Employment	Per Month
40	$22.85
48	22.72
52	22.26
Effective July 1,2002	
Weeks of Employment	Per Month
40	$23.30
48	23.18
52	22.71
12.	Assistant Principals. No longer applicable.
13.	Supervisors and Other Classifications Entitled to Additional Salary Increments. Not applicable since the BOARD does not presently employ supervisors and other classifications entitled to additional salary increments.
14.	Psychologists, School Social Workers, and Speech Pathologists. Psychologists, school socials workers, and speech pathologists shall receive the following monthly increment based on the number of weeks of employment budgeted for their positions provided they meet the stipulated requirements for school psychologists (Illinois School Code, Section 14-1.09), school social workers, or speech pathologists.
Effective July 1,1999
Weeks of Employment Rate per Month
40	$234.20
44	233.68
48	233.68
52	233.20
215
Effective July 1,2000 Weeks of Employment 40 44 48 52 Effective July 1,2001 Weeks of Employment 40 44 48 52 Effective July 1,2002 Weeks of Employment 40 44 48 52	Rate per Month $238.88 238.35 238.35 237.86 Rate per Month $243.66 243.12 243.12 242.62 Rate per Month $248.53 247.98 247.98 247.47
15. Teachers of Driver Education.
Effective July 1,1999 Per Hour Effective July 1,2000 Per Hour Effective July 1,2001 Per Hour Effective July 1,2002 Per Hour	$19.57 $19.96 $20.36 $20.77
16.	Summer School Personnel (Personnel Employed for the Regular School Term of 40 Weeks).
A. Teachers and assistant principals in the regular summer schools shall be paid 66-2/3 percent of their basic salary if employed on a four-hour summer school day, 80 percent if employed on a five-hour summer school day, or 100 percent if employed on a six-hour day (not including any extra increments earned during the regular school year). Basic salaries refer to their salaries as teachers during the month of June immediately preceding the summer session.
216
B.	Teachers and assistant principals in the special elementary summer schools shall be paid the regular base salary for which they qualify as teachers (not including any extra increments).
C.	Part-time teachers shall be paid prorata on the above basis.
D.	Teachers and assistant principals employed during the summer months other than in summer school shall be paid the same salary they would receive as teachers in the special elementary summer schools.
17.	Compensation for Teachers Engaged in Extracurricular Activities.
Effective July 1 of the following years				Maximum Number	
	Rate per Hour				
Extracurricular		for the Following Years:			of Hours
Activity	1999	2000	2001	2002	per Year
Football					
Head Coach	$13.33	$13.60	$13.87	$14.15	240
Assistant Coach	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	200
Frosh-Soph Coach	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	160
Cross County	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	42
Basketball					
Head Coach	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	240
Frosh-Soph Coach	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	200
Swimming	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	200
Wrestling	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	200
Track (indoorand					
outdoor)	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	200
Baseball					
Head Coach	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	200
Frosh-Soph Coach	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	140
Gymnastics	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	200
Tennis	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	40
Golf	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	40
Bowling	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	50
Soccer	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	80
Chess	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	20
Checkers	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	20
Ice Skating	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	5
Intramurals	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	70
Instrumental Groups	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	85
Vocal Groups	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	50
Drama	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	75
217
Pompon Girls	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	50
Cheerleaders Volleyball	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	60
Head Coach	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	200
Frosh-Soph Coach Softball	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	140
Head Coach	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	200
Frosh-Soph Coach	13.33	13.60	13.87	14.15	140
Clubs (flat rate)	150.38	153.39	156.46	159.58	
Other Activities (flat rate approved by principal) Crowd Control	451.79	460.83	470.04	479.44	
(per session)	15.03 (Saturday = 1% sessions)		15.33	15.64	15.95	
18.	Qualified non-employees may be hired for coaching and extracurricular positions set forth in this Agreement, provided that:
A.	there are no certified teachers qualified and available at the local school, and
B.	the BOARD has provided reasonable notice and opportunity to qualified teachers at other schools that a coaching or extracurricular position is vacant, and
C.	the qualified non-employee complies with the applicable standards set forth by the IHSA for “Non-Faculty Coaches.”
19.	Playground Teachers. Not applicable since the BOARD does not presently employ playground teachers.
20.	Playground Teachers in Charge of Stadia. Not applicable since the BOARD does not presently employ playground teachers in charge of stadia.
21.	Playground Teacher - Substitutes (Day-to-Day). Not applicable since the BOARD does not presently employ playground teacher substitutes.
22.	Social Center Personnel (Part-Time Employees)
Effective July 1,1999	Hourly Rate
Program Coordinator........................ $22.59
218
Teacher - Director........................... 15.04
Teacher ..................................... 13.16
Paraprofessional ............................. 9.02
Effective July 1,2000	Hourly Rate
Program Coordinator......................... $23.04
Teacher - Director........................... 15.34
Teacher ..................................... 13.42
Paraprofessional ............................. 9.20
Effective July 1,2001	Hourly Rate
Program Coordinator......................... $23.50
Teacher - Director........................... 15.65
Teacher ..................................... 13.69
Paraprofessional ............................. 9.38
Effective July 1,2002	Hourly Rate
Program Coordinator......................... $23.97
Teacher - Director........................... 15.96
Teacher ..................................... 13.97
Paraprofessional ............................. 9.57
23.	Summer Swimming Pools.
Hourly Rate
Effective July 1,1999	$11.29
Effective July 1,2000	11.52
Effective July 1,2001	11.75
Effective July 1,2002	11.98
24-1. Senior Truant Officer (Title Code 3591) and Occupational Therapist Assistant (Title Code 3509) Career Service — Grade 9 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive...7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2553.46	26811	1877	28688
2685.12	28194	1974	30167
2816.80	29576	2070	31647
2841.80	29839	2089	31928
2988.34	31378	2196	33574
3138.30	32952	2307	35259
3298.20	34631	2424	37055
3461.44	36345	2544	38889
219
24-1. Senior Truant Officer (Title Code 3591), School Clerk I (Title Code 0468), School Clerk I - Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 2501), and Occupational Therapist Assistant (Title Code 3509) Career Service — Grade 9 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive..7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2604.52	27347	1914	29262
2738.82	28758	2013	30771
2873.14	30168	2112	32280
2898.64	30436	2131	32566
3048.10	32005	2240	34245
3201.06	33611	2353	35964
3364.16	35324	2473	37796
3530.66	37072	2595	39667
24-1. Senior Truant Officer (Title Code 3591), School Clerk I (Title Code 0468), School Clerk I - Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 2501), and Occupational Therapist Assistant (Title Code 3509) Career Service — Grade 9 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000	_
•	’	Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3565.28	37435	2620	40056
24-1. Senior Truant Officer (Title Code 3591), School Clerk I (Title Code 0468), School Clerk I - Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 2501), and Occupational Therapist Assistant (Title Code 3509) Career Service — Grade 9 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2656.62	27895	1953	29847
After 1 year		...2	2793.60	29333	2053	31386
After 2 years		... 3	2930.60	30771	2154	32925
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2956.62	31045	2173	33218
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	3109.06	32645	2285	34930
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	3265.08	34283	2400	36683
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	3431.44	36030	2522	38552
21st year and thereafter		...8	3601.28	37813	2647	40460
220
24-1. Senior Truant Officer (Title Code 3591), School Clerk I (Title Code 0468), School Clerk I - Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 2501), and Occupational Therapist Assistant (Title Code 3509) Career Service — Grade 9 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3672.24	38559	2699	41258
24-1. Senior Truant Officer (Title Code 3591), School Clerk I (Title Code 0468), School Clerk I - Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 2501), and Occupational Therapist Assistant (Title Code 3509) Career Service — Grade 9 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2709.76	28452	1992	30444
After 1 year		...2	2849.48	29920	2094	32014
After 2 years		... 3	2989.22	31387	2197	33584
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	3015.76	31665	2217	33882
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	3171.24	33298	2331	35629
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	3330.38	34969	2448	37417
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	3500.06	36751	2573	39323
21st year and thereafter		...8	3673.30	38570	2700	41270
24-1. Senior Truant Officer (Title Code 3591), School Clerk I (Title Code 0468), School Clerk I - Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 2501), and Occupational Therapist Assistant (Title Code 3509) Career Service — Grade 9 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3782.40	39715	2780	42495
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
221
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
24-2. School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 8 (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2308.88	28861	2020	30881
After 1 year		...2	2422.82	30285	2120	32405
After 2 years		... 3	2543.50	31794	2226	34019
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2571.78	32147	2250	34398
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2697.90	33724	2361	36084
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2830.70	35384	2477	37861
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2976.68	37209	2605	39813
21st year and thereafter		...8	3126.08	39076	2735	41811
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
24-2. School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 9 (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
*	’	Dom_
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2594.38	32430	2270	34700
After 1 year		...2	2728.16	34102	2387	36489
After 2 years		... 3	2861.94	35774	2504	38278
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2887.32	36092	2526	38618
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	3036.22	37953	2657	40609
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	3188.58	39857	2790	42647
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	3351.04	41888	2932	44820
21st year and thereafter		...8	3516.90	43961	3077	47039
24-2. School Clerk (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 9 (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3551.38	44392	3107	47500
222
24-2. School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 9 (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2646.26	33078	2315	35394
2782.72	34784	2435	37219
2919.18	36490	2554	39044
2945.06	36813	2577	39390
3096.94	38712	2710	41422
3252.36	40655	2846	43500
3418.06	42726	2991	45717
3587.24	44841	3139	47979
24-2. School Clerk (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 9 (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
24-2. School Clerk I (Title Grade 9 (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
Years of Service	Step
1 st year....................... 1
After 1 year.....................2
After 2 years................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive.... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive 6 17th year to 20th year inclusive.7
21st year and thereafter.........8
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3657.92	45724	3201	48925
Code 0468) Career Service —
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2699.18	33740	2362	36102
2838.38	35480	2484	37963
2977.56	37220	2605	39825
3003.96	37550	2628	40178
3158.88	39486	2764	42250
3317.40	41468	2903	44370
3486.42	43580	3051	46631
3658.98	45737	3202	48939
24-2. School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 9 (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
Monthly
3767.66
An nual* 47096
Pension Pickup* 3297
Total Comp* 50392
223
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
24-3. School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 8 (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2262.52	29413	2059	31472
After 1 year		...2	2374.18	30864	2161	33025
After 2 years		... 3	2492.42	32401	2268	34670
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2520.16	32762	2293	35055
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2643.74	34369	2406	36774
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2773.88	36060	2524	38585
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2916.92	37920	2654	40574
21st year and thereafter		...8	3063.30	39823	2788	42611
24-3. School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 9 (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2542.26	33049	2313	35363
After 1 year		...2	2673.38	34754	2433	37187
After 2 years		... 3	2804.46	36458	2552	39010
3K years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2829.36	36782	2575	39356
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2975.26	38678	2707	41386
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	3124.56	40619	2843	43463
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	3283.76	42689	2988	45677
21st year and thereafter		...8	3446.30	44802	3136	47938
24-3. School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 9 (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
Pen-
An sion Total
Monthly 3480.08	nual* Pickup* Comp* 45241 3167	48408
224
24-3. School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 9 (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive..7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2593.10	33710	2360	36070
2726.84	35449	2481	37930
2860.54	37187	2603	39790
2885.94	37517	2626	40143
3034.76	39452	2762	42214
3187.06	41432	2900	44332
3349.44	43543	3048	46591
3515.22	45698	3199	48897
24-3. School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 9 (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3584.48	46598	3262	49860
24-3. School Clerk I (Title Grade 9 (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
Code 0468) Career Service —
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2644.96	34384	2407	36791
2781.38	36158	2531	38689
2917.76	37931	2655	40586
2943.66	38268	2679	40946
3095.46	40241	2817	43058
3250.80	42260	2958	45219
3416.42	44413	3109	47522
3585.52	46612	3263	49875
24-3. School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 9 (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
PenAn sion Total Monthly nual* Pickup* Comp*
3692.02	47996 3360	51356
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation
225
time is granted in accordance with the provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
25-1. Truant Officer (Title Code 3590), Truant Officer Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 3597), and School Clerk I (Title Code 0468) Career Service — Grade 8 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive 6 17th year to 20th year inclusive...7
21st year and thereafter..........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2317.94	24338	1704	26042
2432.30	25539	1788	27327
2553.46	26811	1877	28688
2581.86	27110	1898	29007
2708.46	28439	1991	30430
2841.80	29839	2089	31928
2988.34	31378	2196	33574
3138.30	32952	2307	35259
25-1. Truant Officer (Title Code 3590) and Truant Officer Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 3597) Career Service — Grade 8 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2364.30	24825	1738	26563
After 1 year		...2	2480.94	26050	1823	27873
After 2 years		... 3	2604.52	27347	1914	29262
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2633.50	27652	1936	29587
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2762.62	29008	2031	31038
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2898.64	30436	2131	32566
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	3048.10	32005	2240	34245
21st year and thereafter		...8	3201.06	33611	2353	35964
25-1. Truant Officer (Title Code 3590) and Truant Officer Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 3597) Career Service — Grade 8 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3232.44	33941	2376	36316
226
25-1. Truant Officer (Title Code 3590) and Truant Officer Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 3597) Career Service — Grade 8 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2411.58	25322	1773	27094
2530.56	26571	1860	28431
2656.62	27895	1953	29847
2686.18	28205	1974	30179
2817.88	29588	2071	31659
2956.62	31045	2173	33218
3109.06	32645	2285	34930
3265.08	34283	2400	36683
25-1. Truant Officer (Title Code 3590) and Truant Officer Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 3597) Career Service — Grade 8 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
PenAn sion Total Monthly nual* Pickup* Comp*
3329.42	34959 2447	37406
25-1. Truant Officer (Title Code 3590) and Truant Officer Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 3597) Career Service — Grade 8 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2459.82	25828	1808	27636
2581.18	27102	1897	29000
2709.76	28452	1992	30444
2739.90	28769	2014	30783
2874.24	30180	2113	32292
3015.76	31665	2217	33882
3171.24	33298	2331	35629
3330.38	34969	2448	37417
227
25-1. Truant Officer (Title Code 3590) and Truant Officer Bilingual Spanish (Title Code 3597) Career Service — Grade 8 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3329.42	34959	2447	37406
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
26-1. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2210.48	23210	1625	24835
After 1 year		...2	2317.94	24338	1704	26042
After 2 years		... 3	2432.30	25539	1788	27327
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2455.24	25780	1805	27585
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2581.86	27110	1898	29007
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2708.46	28439	1991	30430
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2841.74	29838	2089	31927
21st year and thereafter		...8	2988.34	31378	2196	33574
26-1. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2254.68	23674	1657	25331
After 1 year		...2	2364.30	24825	1738	26563
After 2 years		... 3	2480.94	26050	1823	27873
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2504.34	26296	1841	28136
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2633.50	27652	1936	29587
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2762.62	29008	2031	31038
228
17th year to 20th year inclusive.....7 2898.58	30435 2130	32566
21st year and thereafter............ 8 3048.10	32005 2240	34245
26-1. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000	_
’ ’	Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3078.00	32319	2262	34581
26-1. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Ser-
vice — Grade 7 (40 weeks). Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2299.78	24148	1690	25838
2411.58	25322	1773	27094
2530.56	26571	1860	28431
2554.42	26821	1877	28699
2686.18	28205	1974	30179
2817.88	29588	2071	31659
2956.56	31044	2173	33217
3109.06	32645	2285	34930
26-1. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001	_
’ ’	Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3170.34	33289	2330	35619
26-1. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital
Licensed Practical Nurses vice — Grade 7 (40 weeks). Effective July 1,2002
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year........................2
After 2 years...................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.... 5
Title Code 3620		i) Career Ser-	
Monthly	An nual*	Pension Pickup*	Total Comp*
2345.78	24631	1724	26355
2459.82	25828	1808	27636
2581.18	27102	1897	29000
2605.50	27358	1915	29273
2739.90	28769	2014	30783
229
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive 6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
2874.24	30180	2113	32292
3015.70	31665	2217	33881
3171.24	33298	2331	35629
26-1. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR. Effective July 1,2002
’	Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3265.46	34287	2400	36687
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
26-2. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2201.88	27524	1927	29450
After 1 year		...2	2308.80	28860	2020	30880
After 2 years		... 3	2422.78	30285	2120	32405
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2445.68	30571	2140	32711
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2571.80	32148	2250	34398
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2697.94	33724	2361	36085
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2830.66	35383	2477	37860
21st year and thereafter		...8	2976.68	37209	2605	39813
26-2. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000	An			Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		.... 1	2245.92	28074	1965	30039
After 1 year		....2	2354.98	29437	2061	31498
After 2 years		.... 3	2471.24	30891	2162	33053
3K years to 6 years inclusive ..	.... 4	2494.60	31183	2183	33365
230
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive.....7
21st year and thereafter............8
2623.24	32791	2295	35086
2751.90	34399	2408	36807
2887.28	36091	2526	38617
3036.22	37953	2657	40609
26-2. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000 PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3065.98	38325	2683	41007
26-2. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470)	and Hospital
Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Ser-
vice — Grade 7 (48 weeks). Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3K years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2290.84	28636	2004	30640
2402.08	30026	2102	32128
2520.66	31508	2206	33714
2544.50	31806	2226	34033
2675.70	33446	2341	35787
2806.94	35087	2456	37543
2945.02	36813	2577	39390
3096.94	38712	2710	41422
26-2. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3157.96	39475	2763	42238
26-2. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Ser-
vice — Grade 7 (48 weeks). Effective July 1,2002
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
PenAn sion Total Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2336.66	29208	2045	31253
2450.12	30627	2144	32770
231
After 2 years....................... 3
3K years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive 6 17th year to 20th year inclusive......7
21st year and thereafter.............8
2571.08	32139	2250	34388
2595.40	32443	2271	34713
2729.22	34115	2388	36503
2863.08	35789	2505	38294
3003.92	37549	2628	40177
3158.88	39486	2764	42250
26-2. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3252.70	40659	2846	43505
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
26-3. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Ser-
vice — Grade 7 (52 weeks).					
Effective July 1,1999				Pen-	
			An	sion	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2157.86	28052	1964	30016
After 1 year		...2	2262.72	29415	2059	31474
After 2 years		... 3	2374.36	30867	2161	33027
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2396.84	31159	2181	33340
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2520.50	32767	2294	35060
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2644.14	34374	2406	36780
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2774.18	36064	2525	38589
21st year and thereafter		...8	2917.22	37924	2655	40579
26-3. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
Years of Service	Step
1st year........................ 1
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2201.02	28613	2003	30616
232
After 1 year		.. 2	2307.98	30004	2100	32104
After 2 years		. 3	2421.84	31484	2204	33688
3X years to 6 years inclusive		. 4	2444.78	31782	2225	34007
7th year to 11 th year inclusive....	. 5	2570.92	33422	2340	35761
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive...	.. 6	2697.02	35061	2454	37516
17th year to 20th year i ncl usive...	... 7	2829.66	36786	2575	39361
21st year and thereafter		.. 8	2975.56	38682	2708	41390
26-3. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR. Effective July 1,2000
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3004.74	39062	2734	41796
26-3. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year............................ 1
After 1 year..........................2
After 2 years........................ 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th	year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive 6 17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2245.04	29186	2043	31229
2354.14	30604	2142	32746
2470.28	32114	2248	34362
2493.68	32418	2269	34687
2622.34	34090	2386	36477
2750.96	35762	2503	38266
2886.26	37521	2626	40148
3035.08	39456	2762	42218
26-3. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3094.88	40233	2816	43050
26-3. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (52 weeks).
233
Effective July 1,2002
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year........................2
After 2 years...................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2289.94	29769	2084	31853
2401.22	31216	2185	33401
2519.68	32756	2293	35049
2543.56	33066	2315	35381
2674.78	34772	2434	37206
2805.98	36478	2553	39031
2943.98	38272	2679	40951
3095.78	40245	2817	43062
26-3. Interpreter Clerk (Title Code 0470) and Hospital Licensed Practical Nurses (Title Code 3620) Career Service — Grade 7 (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3187.72	41440	2901	44341
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation time is granted in accordance with the provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
27-1. Audiometric Technician (Title Code 3149), School Library Assistant (Title Code 0531), Vision Screening Technician (Title Code 3151), Speech Pathology Aide (Title Code 3407), and Guidance Counselor Aide (Title Code 0466) Career Service — Grade 6 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2103.08	22082	1546	23628
After 1 year		...2	2210.48	23210	1625	24835
After 2 years		... 3	2317.94	24338	1704	26042
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2338.76	24557	1719	26276
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2455.24	25780	1805	27585
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2581.86	27110	1898	29007
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2708.46	28439	1991	30430
21st year and thereafter		...8	2841.80	29839	2089	31928
234
27-1. Audiometric Technician (Title Code 3149), School Library Assistant (Title Code 0531), Vision Screening Technician (Title Code 3151), Speech Pathology Aide (Title Code 3407), and Guidance Counselor Aide (Title Code 0466) Career Service — Grade 6 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2145.14	22524	1577	24101
After 1 year		...2	2254.68	23674	1657	25331
After 2 years		... 3	2364.30	24825	1738	26563
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2385.54	25048	1753	26802
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2504.34	26296	1841	28136
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2633.50	27652	1936	29587
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2762.62	29008	2031	31038
21st year and thereafter		...8	2898.64	30436	2131	32566
27-1. Audiometric Technician (Title Code 3149), School Library Assistant (Title Code 0531), Vision Screening Technician (Title Code 3151), Speech Pathology Aide (Title Code 3407), and Guidance Counselor Aide (Title Code 0466) Career Service — Grade 6 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2927.06	30734	2151	32886
27-1. Audiometric Technician (Title Code 3149), School Library Assistant (Title Code 0531), Vision Screening Technician (Title Code 3151), Speech Pathology Aide (Title Code 3407), and Guidance Counselor Aide (Title Code 0466) Career Service — Grade 6 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
	An			Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2188.04	22974	1608	24583
After 1 year		...2	2299.78	24148	1690	25838
After 2 years		... 3	2411.58	25322	1773	27094
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2433.26	25549	1788	27338
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2554.42	26821	1877	28699
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2686.18	28205	1974	30179
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2817.88	29588	2071	31659
235
21st year and thereafter
8 2956.62	31045 2173	33218
27-1. Audiometric Technician (Title Code 3149), School Library Assistant (Title Code 0531), Vision Screening Technician (Title Code 3151), Speech Pathology Aide (Title Code 3407), and Guidance Counselor Aide (Title Code 0466) Career Service — Grade 6 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001 PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3014.88	31656	2216	33872
27-1. Audiometric Technician (Title Code 3149), School Library Assistant (Title Code 0531), Vision Screening Technician (Title Code 3151), Speech Pathology Aide (Title Code 3407), and Guidance Counselor Aide (Title Code 0466) Career Service — Grade 6 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3K years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive...7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Monthly
An nual*
Pension Pickup*
Total Comp*
2231.80	23434	1640	25074
2345.78	24631	1724	26355
2459.82	25828	1808	27636
2481.92	26060	1824	27884
2605.50	27358	1915	29273
2793.90	28769	2014	30783
2874.24	30180	2113	32292
3015.76	31665	2217	33882
27-1. Audiometric Technician (Title Code 3149), School Library Assistant (Title Code 0531), Vision Screening Technician (Title Code 3151), Speech Pathology Aide (Title Code 3407), and Guidance Counselor Aide (Title Code 0466) Career Service — Grade 6 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
3105.32	32606	2282	34888
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
236
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
28-1. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999
Pen-
An sion Total
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year........................2
After 2 years...................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1909.04	20045	1403	21448
2002.64	21028	1472	22500
2103.08	22082	1546	23628
2125.50	22318	1562	23880
2228.74	23402	1638	25040
2338.76	24557	1719	26276
2455.24	25780	1805	27585
2581.86	27110	1898	29007
28-1. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
Pen-
An sion Total
Years of Service	Step
1 st year......................... 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive...7
21st year and thereafter..........8
28-1. School Clerk Assis
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1947.22	20446	1431	21877
2042.70	21448	1501	22950
2145.14	22524	1577	24101
2168.02	22764	1593	24358
2273.32	23870	1671	25541
2385.54	25048	1753	26802
2504.34	26296	1841	28136
2633.50	27652	1936	29587
rnt (Title	Code	0467)	Career
Service — Grade 5 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
Monthly
2659.32
An nual*
27923
Pension Pickup’ 1955
Total Comp* 29877
237
28-1. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Pen-
An sion Total
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year........................2
After 2 years...................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1986.16	20855	1460	22315
2083.56	21877	1531	23409
2188.04'	22974	1608	24583
2211.38	23219	1625	24845
2318.78	24347	1704	26051
2433.26	25549	1788	27338
2554.42	26821	1877	28699
2686.18	28205	1974	30179
28-1. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2739.10	28761	2013	30774
28-1. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
Pen-
An sion Total
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year........................2
After 2 years...................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2025.88	21272	1489	22761
2125.24	22315	1562	23877
2231.80	23434	1640	25074
2255.60	23684	1658	25342
2365.16	24834	1738	26573
2481.92	26060	1824	27884
2605.50	27358	1915	29273
2739.90	28769	2014	30783
28-1. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR
ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2821.28	29623	2074	31697
238
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
28-2. School Clerk Assistant (Title Service — Grade 5 (48 weeks).			Code	0467)	Career
Effective July 1,1999				Pen-	
			An	sion	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1901.64	23771	1664	25434
After 1 year		...2	1994.68	24934	1745	26679
After 2 years		... 3	2094.90	26186	1833	28019
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2117.32	26467	1853	28319
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2220.10	27751	1943	29694
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2329.72	29122	2039	31160
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2445.72	30572	2140	32712
21st year and thereafter		...8	2571.92	32149	2250	34399
28-2. School Clerk Assistant (Title Service — Grade 5 (48 weeks).			Code	0467)	Career
Effective July 1,2000				Pen-	
			An	sion	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1939.68	24246	1697	25943
After 1 year		...2	2034.58	25432	1780	27213
After 2 years		... 3	2136.80	26710	1870	28580
3K years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2159.66	26996	1890	28885
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2264.50	28306	1981	30288
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2376.32	29704	2079	31783
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2494.64	31183	2183	33366
21st year and thereafter		...8	2623.36	32792	2295	35087
28-2. School Clerk Assistant (Title			Code	0467)	Career
Service — Grade 5 (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR					
ONE YEAR.					
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2649.08	33114	2318	35431
Effective July 1,2000
239
28-2. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Pen-
An sion Total
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive.....7
21st year and thereafter.............8
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1978.48	24731	1731	26462
2075.28	25941	1816	27757
2179.54	27244	1907	29151
2202.86	27536	1928	29463
2309.80	28873	2021	30894
2423.84	30298	2121	32419
2544.54	31807	2226	34033
2675.82	33448	2341	35789
28-2. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2726.56	34107	2387	36494
28-2. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	2018.04	25226	1766	26991
After 1 year		...2	2116.78	26460	1852	28312
After 2 years		... 3	2223.14	27789	1945	29734
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2246.92	28087	1966	30053
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2356.00	29450	2062	31512
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2472.32	30904	2163	33067
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2595.44	32443	2271	34714
21st year and thereafter		...8	2729.34	34117	2388	36505
28-2. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR
ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
Monthly
2810.42
An nual*
35130
Pension Pickup’ 2459
Total Comp* 37589
240
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
28-3. School Clerk Assistant (Title Service — Grade 5 (52 weeks).			Code	0467)	Career
Effective July 1,1999				Pen-	
			An	sion	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1863.64	24227	1696	25923
After 1 year		...2	1954.94	25414	1779	27193
After 2 years		... 3	2053.00	26689	1868	28557
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2074.84	26973	1888	28861
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2175.68	28284	1980	30264
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2283.02	29679	2078	31757
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2396.84	31159	2181	33340
21st year and thereafter		...8	2520.48	32766	2294	35060
28-3. School Clerk Assistant (Title Service — Grade 5 (52 weeks).			Code	0467)	Career
Effective July 1,2000				Pen-	
			An	sion	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1900.92	24712	1730	26442
After 1 year		...2	1994.04	25923	1815	2773
After 2 years		... 3	2094.06	27223	1906	29128
3K years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2116.34	27512	1926	29438
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2219.20	28850	2019	30869
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2328.68	30273	2119	32392
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2444.78	31782	2225	34007
21st year and thereafter		...8	2570.88	33421	2340	35761
28-3. School Clerk Assistant (Title			Code	0467)	Career
Service — Grade 5 (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
Monthly
2596.10
An nual* 33749
Pension Pickup* 2362
Total Comp* 36112
241
28-3. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Pen-
An sion Total
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1938.94	25206	1764	26971
2033.92	26441	1851	28292
2135.94'	27767	1944	29711
2158.66	28063	1964	30027
2263.58	29427	2060	31486
2375.26	30878	2161	33040
2493.68	32418	2269	34687
2622.30	34090	2386	36476
28-3. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
Monthly
2673.98
An nual* 34762
Pension Pickup’ 2433
Total Comp* 37195
28-3. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career Service — Grade 5 (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
Pen-
An sion Total
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive.....7
21st year and thereafter.............8
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1977.72	25710	1800	27510
2074.60	26970	1888	28858
2178.66	28323	1983	30305
2201.84	28624	2004	30628
2308.86	30015	2101	32116
2422.76	31496	2205	33701
2543.56	33066	2315	35381
2674.74	34772	2434	37206
28-3. School Clerk Assistant (Title Code 0467) Career
Service — Grade 5 (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2754.20	35805	2506	38311
242
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation time is granted in accordance with the provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
29-1. Interpreter Assistant (Title Code 3429) Career Service — Grade 4 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1819.04	19100	1337	20437
After 1 year		...2	1909.02	20045	1403	21448
After 2 years		... 3	2002.64	21028	1472	22500
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2022.18	21233	1486	22719
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2125.50	22318	1562	23880
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2228.74	23402	1638	25040
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2338.76	24557	11719	26276
21st year and thereafter		...8	2455.24	25780	1805	27585
29-1. Interpreter Assistant (Title Code 3429) Career Service — Grade 4 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
Pen-
			An	sion	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1855.42	19482	1364	20846
After 1 year		...2	1947.20	20446	1431	21877
After 2 years		... 3	2042.70	21448	1501	22950
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2062.62	21658	1516	23174
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2168.02	22764	1593	24358
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2273.32	23870	1671	25541
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2385.54	25048	1753	26802
21st year and thereafter		...8	2504.34	26296	1841	28136
29-1. Interpreter Assistant (Title Code 3429) Career Service — Grade 4 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
Pen-
An sion Total
Monthly nual* Pickup* Comp*
2528.90	26553 1859	28412
243
29-1. Interpreter Assistant (Title Code 3429) Career Service — Grade 4 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1892.52	19871	1391	21262
After 1 year		...2	1986.14	20854	1460	22314
After 2 years		... 3	2083.56	21877	1531	23409
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	2103.88	22091	1546	23637
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2211.38	23219	1625	24845
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2318.78	24347	1704	26051
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2433.26	25549	1788	27338
21st year and thereafter		...8	2554.42	26821	1877	28699
29-1. Interpreter Assistant (Title Code 3429) Career Service — Grade 4 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
’	Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2604.76	27350	1914	29264
29-1. Interpreter Assistant (Title Code 3429) Career Service — Grade 4 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive...7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1930.38	20269	1419	21688
2025.86	21272	1489	22761
2125.24	22315	1562	23877
2145.96	22533	1577	24110
2255.60	23684	1658	25342
2365.16	24834	1738	26573
2481.92	26060	1824	27884
2605.50	27358	1915	29273
29-1. Interpreter Assistant (Title Code 3429) Career Service — Grade 4 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2682.90	28170	1972	30142
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes
244
the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
30-1. School Community Representative (Title Code 0701), Instructor Assistant (Title Code 3917) and Teacher
Assistant - Montessori Program (Title Code 2520) Career					
Service — Grade 3 (40 weeks).					
Effective July 1,1999				Pen-	
			An	sion	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1732.46	18191	1273	19464
After 1 year		...2	1819.04	19100	1337	20437
After 2 years		... 3	1909.02	20045	1403	21448
3K years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	1925.56	20218	1415	21634
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2022.18	21233	1486	22719
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2125.50	22318	1562	23880
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2228.74	23402	1638	25040
21st year and thereafter		...8	2338.76	24557	1719	26276
30-1. School Community Representative (Title					Code
0701), Instructor Assistant (Title Code 3917) and Teacher Assistant - Montessori Program (Title Code 2520) Career					
Service — Grade 3 (40 weeks).					
Effective July 1,2000				Pen-	
			An	sion	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1767.10	18555	1299	19853
After 1 year		...2	1855.42	19482	1364	20846
After 2 years		... 3	1947.20	20446	1431	21877
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	1964.08	20623	1444	22066
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	2062.62	21658	1516	23174
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	2168.02	22764	1593	24358
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2273.32	23870	1671	25541
21st year and thereafter		...8	2385.54	25048	1753	26802
30-1. School Community Representative (Title Code 0701), Instructor Assistant (Title Code 3917) and Teacher Assistant - Montessori Program (Title Code 2520) Career Service — Grade 3 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
245
Effective July 1,2000
J	Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2408.92	25294	1771	27064
30-1. School Community Representative (Title Code 0701), Instructor Assistant (Title Code 3917) and Teacher Assistant - Montessori Program (Title Code 2520) Career Service — Grade 3 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive...7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1802.44	18926	1325	20250
1892.52	19871	1391	21262
1986.14	20854	1460	22314
2003.36	21035	1472	22508
2103.88	22091	1546	23637
2211.38	23219	1625	24845
2318.78	24347	1704	26051
2433.26	25549	1788	27338
30-1. School Community Representative (Title Code 0701), Instructor Assistant (Title Code 3917) and Teacher Assistant - Montessori Program (Title Code 2520) Career Service — Grade 3 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2481.18	26052	1824	27876
30-1. School Community Representative (Title Code 0701), Instructor Assistant (Title Code 3917) and Teacher Assistant - Montessori Program (Title Code 2520) Career Service — Grade 3 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
Years of Service	Step
1 st year....................... 1
After 1 year.....................2
After 2 years................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive.... 4
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1838.48	19304	1351	20655
1930.38	20269	1419	21688
2025.86	21272	1489	22761
2043.42	21456	1502	22958
246
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive.....7
21st year and thereafter............8
2145.96	22533	1577	24110
2255.60	23684	1658	25342
2365.16	24834	1738	26573
2481.92	26060	1824	27884
30-1. School Community Representative (Title Code 0701), Instructor Assistant (Title Code 3917) and Teacher Assistant - Montessori Program (Title Code 2520) Career Service — Grade 3 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2555.62	26834	1878	28712
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
31A-1. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Ser-
vice — Grade 1B (40 weeks). Effective July 1,1999
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1622.44	17036	1192	18228
1705.70	17910	1254	19164
1788.76	18782	1315	20097
1806.58	18969	1328	20297
1896.48	19913	1394	21307
1986.50	20858	1460	22318
2086.52	21908	1534	23442
2193.10	23028	1612	24639
31 A-1. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
PenAn sion Total Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1654.88	17376	1216	18593
1739.82	18268	1279	19547
247
After 2 years....................... 3	1824.54
3K years to 6 years inclusive...... 4	1842.72
7th year to 11th year inclusive.... 5	1934.40
12th year to 16th year inclusive...6	2026.24
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7	2128.26
21st year and thereafter........... 8	2236.96
19158 1341	20499
19349 1354	20703
20311 1422	21733
21276 1489	22765
22347 1564	23911
23488 1644	25132
31A-1. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000 PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2258.90	23718	1660	25379
31A-1. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive..7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1687.98	17724	1241	18964
1774.62	18634	1304	19938
1861.04	19541	1368	20909
1879.58	19736	1381	21117
1973.08	20717	1450	22168
2066.76	21701	1519	23220
2170.82	22794	1596	24389
2281.70	23958	1677	25635
31 A-1. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001 PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2326.66	24430	1710	26140
31 A-1. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002 PenAn sion Total
Years of Service	Step Monthly nual* Pickup* Comp*
1st year.................. 1 1721.74 18078 1265 19344
248
After 1 year		.. 2	1810.12	19006	1330	20337
After 2 years		. 3	1898.26	19932	1395	21327
3X years to 6 years inclusive		. 4	1917.18	20130	1409	21540
7th year to 11 th year inclusive....	. 5	2012.54	21132	1479	22611
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive...	.. 6	2108.10	22135	1549	23685
17th year to 20th year i ncl usive...	... 7	2214.24	23250	1627	24877
21st year and thereafter		.. 8	2327.34	24437	1711	26148
31A-1. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2396.46	25163	1761	26924
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
31A-2. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1614.98	16957	1187	18144
After 1 year		...2	1697.72	17826	1248	19074
After 2 years		... 3	1780.56	18696	1309	20005
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	1798.44	18884	1322	20205
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	1887.96	19824	1388	21211
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	1977.66	20765	1454	22219
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2077.24	21811	1527	23338
21st year and thereafter		...8	2183.30	22925	1605	24529
31A-2. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
Years of Service	Step
1st year........................ 1
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1647.28	17296	1211	18507
249
After 1 year.......................2	1731.68
After 2 years..................... 3	1816.18
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4 1834.40
7th year to 11th year inclusive  5 1925.72 12th year to 16th year	inclusive....6	2017.22
17th year to 20th year	inclusive...7	2118.78
21st year and thereafter.......... 8	2226.96
18183 1273	19455
19070 1335	20405
19261 1348	20609
20220 1415	21635
21181 1483	22663
22247 1557	23804
23383 1637	25020
31A-2. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2248.80	23612	1653	25265
31A-2. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Ser-
vice — Grade 1B (48 weeks). Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
	An	Pension	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1680.22	17642	1235	18877
1766.32	18546	1298	19845
1852.50	19451	1362	20813
1871.08	19646	1375	21022
1964.24	20625	1444	22068
2057.56	21604	1512	23117
2161.16	22692	1588	24281
2271.50	23851	1670	25520
31A-2. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001 PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2316.26	24321	1702	26023
31A-2. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (48 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002 PenAn sion Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1st year..................... 1	1713.82	17995	1260	19255
250
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years	inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th	year inclusive.... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive...6
17th year to 20th year inclusive.....7
21st year and thereafter.............8
1801.64	18917	1324	20241
1889.56	19840	1389	21229
1908.50	20039	1403	21442
2003.52	21037	1473	22510
2098.72	22037	1543	23579
2204.38	23146	1620	24766
2316.94	24328	1703	26031
31A-2. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (48 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2385.74	25050	1754	26804
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 50 weeks of pay for 48 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
31A-3. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1582.34	20570	1440	22010
After 1 year		...2	1663.48	21625	1514	23139
After 2 years		... 3	1744.76	22682	1588	24270
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	1762.16	22908	1604	24512
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	1849.98	24050	1683	25733
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	1937.80	25191	1763	26955
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2035.44	26461	1852	28313
21st year and thereafter		...8	2139.42	27812	1947	29759
31A-3. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
Years of Service	Step
1st year........................ 1
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1613.98	20982	1469	22450
251
After 1 year...................... 2	1696.74
After 2 years..................... 3	1779.66
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4 1797.40
7th year to 11th year inclusive  5 1886.98 12th year to 16th year inclusive....6	1976.56
17th year to 20th year inclusive...7	2076.14
21st year and thereafter.......... 8	2182.20
22058 1544 23602
23136 1619 24755
23366 1636	25002
24531 1717	26248
25695 1799	27494
26990 1889	28879
28369 1986	30354
31A-3. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2203.60	28647	2005	30652
31A-3. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Ser-
vice — Grade 1B (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year.......................... 1
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive..6
17th year to 20th year inclusive....7
21st year and thereafter............8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1646.26	21401	1498	22899
1730.68	22499	1575	24074
1815.26	23598	1652	25250
1833.34	23833	1668	25502
1924.72	25021	1751	26773
2016.10	26209	1835	28044
2117.66	27530	1927	29457
2225.84	28936	2026	30961
31 A-3. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001 PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2269.70	29506	2065	31572
31 A-3. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (52 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002 PenAn sion Total
Years of Service	Step Monthly nual* Pickup* Comp*
1st year..................... 1	1679.18 21829 1528 23357
252
After 1 year.........................2
After 2 years....................... 3
3X years to 6 years	inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th	year inclusive.... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive...6
17th year to 20th year inclusive.....7
21st year and thereafter.............8
1765.30	22949	1606	24555
1851.56	24070	1685	25755
1870.00	24310	1702	26012
1963.22	25522	1787	27308
2056.42	26733	1871	28605
2160.02	28080	1966	30046
2270.36	29515	2066	31581
31A-3. Teacher Assistant (Title Code 0463) Career Service — Grade 1B (52 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2337.80	30391	2127	32519
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar. Vacation time is granted in accordance with the provisions of Board Rule 4-7.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
32-1. School Assistant (Title Code 0462), School Assistant (Bilingual-Spanish) (Title Code 0474), School Assistant (Bilingual) (Title Code 0475) and School Social Service Assistant (Title Code 3501) Career Service — Grade 1A (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,1999
			An	Pension	Total
Years of Service	Step	Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1	1614.58	16953	1187	18140
After 1 year		...2	1697.70	17826	1248	19074
After 2 years		... 3	1780.82	18699	1309	20008
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	... 4	1799.00	18890	1322	20212
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	... 5	1888.86	19833	1388	21221
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6	1978.90	20778	1454	22233
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7	2078.92	21829	1528	23357
21st year and thereafter		...8	2185.50	22948	1606	24554
32-1. School Assistant (Title Code 0462), School Assistant (Bilingual-Spanish) (Title Code 0474), School Assistant (Bilingual) (Title Code 0475) and School Social Ser-
253
vice Assistant (Title Code 3501) Career Service — Grade 1A (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2000
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive...7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1646.88	17292	1210	18503
1731.66	18182	1273	19455
1816.44	19073	1335	20408
1834.98	19267	1349	20616
1926.64	20230	1416	21646
2018.48	21194	1484	22678
2120.50	22265	1559	23824
2229.22	23407	1638	25045
32-1 . School Assistant (Title Code 0462), School Assistant (Bilingual-Spanish) (Title Code 0474), School Assistant (Bilingual) (Title Code 0475) and School Social Service Assistant (Title Code 3501) Career Service — Grade 1A (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
PenAn sion Total Monthly nual* Pickup* Comp*
2251.06	23636 1655	25291
32-1. School Assistant (Title Code 0462), School Assistant (Bilingual-Spanish) (Title Code 0474), School Assistant (Bilingual) (Title Code 0475) and School Social Service Assistant (Title Code 3501) Career Service — Grade 1A (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive...7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1679.82	17638	1235	18873
1766.30	18546	1298	19844
1852.76	19454	1362	20816
1871.68	19653	1376	21028
1965.18	20634	1444	22079
2058.84	21618	1513	23131
2162.92	22711	1590	24300
2273.80	23875	1671	25546
254
32-1. School Assistant (Title Code 0462), School Assistant (Bilingual-Spanish) (Title Code 0474), School Assistant (Bilingual) (Title Code 0475) and School Social Service Assistant (Title Code 3501) Career Service — Grade 1A (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001 ’	PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2318.60	24345	1704	26049
32-1. School Assistant (Title Code 0462), School Assistant (Bilingual-Spanish) (Title Code 0474), School Assistant (Bilingual) (Title Code 0475) and School Social Service Assistant (Title Code 3501) Career Service — Grade 1A (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive...7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1713.42	17991	1259	19250
1801.62	18917	1324	20241
1889.82	19843	1389	21232
1909.12	20046	1403	21449
2004.48	21047	1473	22520
2100.02	22050	1544	23594
2206.18	23165	1622	24786
2319.28	24352	1705	26057
32-1 . School Assistant (Title Code 0462), School Assistant (Bilingual-Spanish) (Title Code 0474), School Assistant (Bilingual) (Title Code 0475) and School Social Service Assistant (Title Code 3501) Career Service — Grade 1A (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002 PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2388.16	25076	1755	26831
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
255
33-1. Speech Pathology Assistant (Title Code 3406)				
Career Service — Grade 10 (40 weeks).				
Effective July 1,1999				
			Pen-	
		An	sion	Total
Years of Service	Step Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1 2708.46	28439	1991	30430
After 1 year		...2 2841.74	29838	2089	31927
After 2 years		...3 2988.34	31378	2196	33574
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	...4 3138.30	32952	2307	35259
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	...5 3298.20	34631	2424	37055
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	....6 3461.44	36345	2544	38889
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7 3634.78	38165	2672	40837
21st year and thereafter		...8 3814.58	40053	2804	42857
33-1. Speech Pathology Assistant (Title			Code	3406)
Career Service — Grade 10 (40 weeks).				
Effective July 1,2000				
			Pen-	
		An	sion	Total
Years of Service	Step Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
1 st year		... 1 2762.62	29008	2031	31038
After 1 year		... 2 2898.58	30435	2130	32566
After 2 years		...3 3048.10	32005	2240	34245
3X years to 6 years inclusive ...	...4 3201.06	33611	2353	35964
7th year to 11 th year inclusive..	...5 3364.16	35324	2473	37796
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.	.... 6 3530.66	37072	2595	39667
17th year to 20th year inclusive.		7 3707.48	38929	2725	41654
21st year and thereafter		... 8 3890.88	40854	2860	43714
33-1. Speech Pathology Assistant (Title Code 3406) Career Service — Grade 10 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2000
Pen-
An sion Total
Monthly nual* Pickup* Comp*
3929.02	41255 2888	44143
33-1. Speech Pathology Assistant (Title Code 3406) Career Service — Grade 10 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2001
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
PenAn sion Total Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2817.88	29588	2071	31659
2956.56	31044	2173	33217
256
After 2 years....................... 3
3K years to 6 years inclusive....... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.... 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive 6 17th year to 20th year inclusive......7
21st year and thereafter.............8
3109.06	32645	2285	34930
3265.08	34283	2400	36683
3431.44	36030	2522	38552
3601.28	37813	2647	40460
3781.62	39707	2779	42487
3968.70	41671	2917	44588
33-1. Speech Pathology Assistant (Title Code 3406) Career Service — Grade 10 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2001 ’	PenAn	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
4046.90	42492	2974	45467
33-1. Speech Pathology Assistant (Title Code 3406)
Career Service — Grade 10 (40 weeks).
Effective July 1,2002
Years of Service	Step
1 st year........................ 1
After 1 year.......................2
After 2 years..................... 3
3X years to 6 years inclusive..... 4
7th year to 11 th year inclusive.. 5
12th year to 16th year i ncl usive.6
17th year to 20th year inclusive..7
21st year and thereafter...........8
Pen-
	An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
2874.24	30180	2113	32292
3015.70	31665	2217	33881
3171.24	33298	2331	35629
3330.38	34969	2448	37417
3500.06	36751	2573	39323
3673.30	38570	2700	41270
3857.26	40501	2835	43336
4048.08	42505	2975	45480
33-1. Speech Pathology Assistant (Title Code 3406) Career Service — Grade 10 (40 weeks) AT MAXIMUM STEP FOR ONE YEAR.
Effective July 1,2002
Pen-
An	sion	Total
Monthly	nual*	Pickup*	Comp*
4168.30	43767	3064	46831
The annual salary has been rounded to the nearest dollar and includes the payment of ten days of vacation so that it is based upon 42 weeks of pay for 40 weeks of employment.
The column entitled “Pension Pickup” (Article 36-3.1), which has been rounded to the nearest dollar, is the amount of pension paid by the Board of Education calculated at seven percent of salary.
The column entitled “Total Comp” reflects compensation paid (annual salary plus pension pickup) and is rounded to the nearest dollar.
257
Monthly Rates for 40-week Educational Support Personnel Paid on the 40-week Basis Compared with the Monthly Rates for the 40-week Educational Support Personnel Paid on the Extended Pay Plan
Effective July 1,1999
		GRADE 10		
	40-Week	40-Week	Ext Pay	Ext. Pay
Step	Monthly	Bl-Week	Monthly	Bl-Week
1	2708.46	1354.23	2170.90	1085.45
2	2841.74	1420.87	2277.72	1138.86
3	2988.34	1494.17	2395.24	1197.62
4	3138.30	1569.15	2515.42	1257.71
5	3298.20	1649.10	2643.60	1321.80
6	3461.44	1730.72	2774.44	1387.22
7	3634.78	1817.39	2913.38	1456.69
8	3814.58	1907.29	3057.48	1528.74
		GRADE 9		
	40-Week	40-Week	Ext Pay	Ext. Pay
Step	Monthly	Bl-Week	Monthly	Bl-Week
1	2553.46	1276.73	2046.66	1023.33
2	2685.12	1342.56	2152.20	1076.10
3	2816.80	1408.40	2257.74	1128.87
4	2841.80	1420.90	2277.78	1138.89
5	2988.34	1494.17	2395.24	1197.62
6	3138.30	1569.15	2515.42	1257.71
7	3298.20	1649.10	2643.60	1321.80
8	3461.44	1730.72	2774.44	1387.22
		GRADE 8		
	40-Week	40-Week	Ext Pay	Ext. Pay
Step	Monthly	Bl-Week	Monthly	Bl-Week
1	2317.94	1158.97	1857.88	928.94
2	2432.30	1216.15	1949.56	974.78
3	2553.46	1276.73	2046.66	1023.33
4	2581.86	1290.93	2069.42	1034.71
5	2708.46	1354.23	2170.90	1085.45
6	2841.80	1420.90	2277.78	1138.89
7	2988.34	1494.17	2395.24	1197.62
8	3138.30	1569.15	2515.42	1257.71
		258		
GRADE 7				Ext. Pay
	40-Week	40-Week	Ext Pay	
Step	Monthly	Bl-Week	Monthly	Bl-Week
1	2210.48	1105.24	1771.76	885.88
2	2317.94	1158.97	1857.88	928.94
3	2432.30	1216.15	1949.56	974.78
4	2455.24	1227.62	1967.94	983.97
5	2581.86	1290.93	2069.42	1034.71
6	2708.46	1354.23	2170.90	1085.45
7	2841.74	1420.87	2277.72	1138.86
8	2988.34	1494.17	2395.24	1197.62
		GRADE 6		
	40-Week	40-Week	Ext Pay	Ext. Pay
Step	Monthly	Bl-Week	Monthly	Bl-Week
1	2103.08	1051.54	1685.68	842.84
2	2210.48	1105.24	1771.76	885.88
3	2317.94	1158.97	1857.88	928.94
4	2338.76	1169.38	1874.58	937.29
5	2455.24	1227.62	1967.94	983.97
6	2581.86	1290.93	2069.42	1034.71
7	2708.46	1354.23	2170.90	1085.45
8	2841.80	1420.90	2277.78	1138.89
		GRADE 6A		
	40-Week	40-Week	Ext Pay	Ext. Pay
Step	Monthly	Bl-Week	Monthly	Bl-Week
1	2041.82	1020.91	1636.58	818.29
2	2146.08	1073.04	1720.14	860.07
3	2250.38	1125.19	1803.74	901.87
4	2270.64	1135.32	1819.98	909.99
5	2383.72	1191.86	1910.62	955.31
6	2506.68	1253.34	2009.16	1004.58
7	2629.60	1314.80	2107.70	1053.85
8	2759.02	1379.51	2211.42	1105.71
		GRADE 5		
	40-Week	40-Week	Ext Pay	Ext. Pay
Step	Monthly	Bl-Week	Monthly	Bl-Week
1	1909.04	954.52	1530.14	765.07
2	2002.66	1001.33	1605.18	802.59
3	2103.08	1051.54	1685.68	842.84
4	2125.50	1062.75	1703.64	851.82
5	2228.74	1114.37	1786.40	893.20
6	2338.76	1169.38	1874.58	937.29
7	2455.24	1227.62	1967.94	983.97
8	2581.86	1290.93	2069.42	1034.71
		259		
		GRADE 4		
Step	40-Week Monthly	40-Week Bl-Week	Ext Pay Monthly	Ext. Pay Bl-Week
1	1819.04	909.52	1458.00	729.00
2	1909.02	954.51	1530.12	765.06
3	2002.64	1001.32	1605.16	802.58
4	2022.18	1011.09	1620.82	810.41
5	2125.50	1062.75	1703.64	851.82
6	2228.74	1114.37	1786.40	893.20
7	2338.76	1169.38	1874.58	937.29
8	2455.24	1227.62	1967.94	983.97
		GRADE 3		
Step	40-Week Monthly	40-Week Bl-Week	Ext Pay Monthly	Ext. Pay Bl-Week
1	1732.46	866.23	1388.62	694.31
2	1819.04	909.52	1458.00	729.00
3	1909.02	954.51	1530.12	765.06
4	1925.56	962.78	1543.38	771.69
5	2022.18	1011.09	1620.82	810.41
6	2125.50	1062.75	1703.64	851.82
7	2228.74	1114.37	1786.40	893.20
8	2338.76	1169.38	1874.58	937.29
		GRADE1B		
Step	40-Week Monthly	40-Week Bl-Week	Ext Pay Monthly	Ext. Pay Bl-Week
1	1622.44	811.22	1300.42	650.21
2	1705.70	852.85	1367.16	683.58
3	1788.76	894.38	1433.74	716.87
4	1806.58	903.29	1448.02	724.01
5	1896.48	948.24	1520.08	760.04
6	1986.50	993.25	1592.24	796.12
7	2086.52	1043.26	1672.40	836.20
8	2193.10	1096.55	1757.82	878.91
		GRADE1A		
Step	40-Week Monthly	40-Week Bl-Week	Ext Pay Monthly	Ext. Pay Bl-Week
1	1614.58	807.29	1294.12	647.06
2	1697.70	848.85	1360.76	680.38
3	1780.82	890.41	1427.38	713.69
4	1799.00	899.50	1441.94	720.97
5	1888.86	944.43	1513.98	756.99
		260		
6
7
8
1978.90
2078.92
2185.50
989.45
1039.46
1092.75
1586.14
1666.30
1751.74
793.07
833.15
875.87
The extended pay plan factor used for the 1999-2000 extended pay plan is 0.801526. (210 days of pay I 262 week days from August 16, 1999 through August 15, 2000.)
34.	Monthly Travel Reimbursement*.
Effective July 1,1999
Amount
Senior truant officers, truant officers assigned to high schools, special schools, and social adjust-
ment schools...................................... $114.88
Elementary school truant officers.................... 94.46
Kindergarten teachers serving two schools.........	29.14
All other teachers whose assignment requires
daily travel from one school or branch to another.	29.14
School Community Representative...................... 29.14
All cooperative education teachers (coordinators).... 68.80
Speech pathology assistants.......................... 72.31
Audiometric technicians (hearing testers) and vision screening technicians (vision testers).....	72.31
School social workers, speech pathologists, school psychologists, and teacher nurses..........	72.31
Field adjustment teachers - social adjustment.....	94.46
School social service assistants..................... 40.81
*AII travel reimbursement requirements must be met.
Effective July 1,2000
Amount
Senior truant officers, truant officers assigned to high schools, special schools, and social adjustment schools....................................... $117.17
Elementary school truant officers.................... 96.34
Kindergarten teachers serving two schools.........	29.72
All other teachers whose assignment requires
daily travel from one school or branch to another.	29.72
School Community Representative...................... 29.72
All cooperative education teachers (coordinators)....	70.17
Speech pathology assistants.......................... 73.75
261
Audiometric technicians (hearing testers) and vision screening technicians (vision testers).......	73.75
School social workers, speech pathologists, school psychologists, and teacher nurses............	73.75
Field adjustment teachers - social adjustment.......	96.34
School social service assistants.................... 41.62
*AII travel reimbursement requirements must be met.
Effective July 1,2001 Amount
Senior truant officers, truant officers assigned to high schools, special schools, and social adjustment schools....................................... $119.51
Elementary school truant officers.................... 98.26
Kindergarten teachers serving two schools...........	30.31
All other teachers whose assignment requires daily travel from one school or branch to another...	30.31
School Community Representative...................... 30.31
All cooperative education teachers	(coordinators).... 71.57
Speech pathology assistants.......................... 75.22
Audiometric technicians (hearing testers) and vision screening technicians (vision	testers).	75.22
School social workers, speech pathologists, school psychologists, and teacher nurses............	75.22
Field adjustment teachers - social adjustment.......	98.26
School social service assistants..................... 42.45
*AII travel reimbursement requirements must be met.
Effective July 1,2002 Amount
Senior truant officers, truant officers assigned to high schools, special schools, and social adjustment schools....................................... $121.90
Elementary school truant officers................... 100.22
Kindergarten teachers serving two schools...........	30.91
All other teachers whose assignment requires daily travel from one school or branch to another...	30.91
School Community Representative...................... 30.91
All cooperative education teachers (coordinators)....	73.00
Speech pathology assistants.......................... 76.72
262
Audiometric technicians (hearing testers) and vision screening technicians (vision testers).....	76.72
School social workers, speech pathologists, school psychologists, and teacher nurses..........	76.72
Field adjustment teachers - social adjustment..... 100.22
School social service assistants..................... 43.29
*AII travel reimbursement requirements must be met.
35.	Choice of Dental Maintenance Plan (DMO) for employees and dependents or a fee for service plan for employees only.
Actual benefit/reimbursement schedule to follow.
36.	Vocational Teacher Service Providers. (Part-time Employees)
Effective July 1,1999	Rate per Hour
Teacher	$18.57
Effective July 1,2000	Rate per Hour
Teacher	$18.94
Effective July 1,2001	Rate per Hour
Teacher	$19.31
Effective July 1,2002	Rate per Hour
Teacher	$19.69
37. Case Manager. (Special
Effective July 1,1999
Effective July 1,2000
Effective July 1,2001
Effective July 1,2002
Education)
$583.15 per semester
$594.81 per semester
$606.70 per semester
$618.83 per semester
38.	State Legislation Impact Assistance Grant Program (SLIAG)
Effective July 1,1999
Part-time employees.
Rate per Hour
Teacher	$18.57
263
ESP Employee
Effective July 1,2000
Part-time employees.
Teacher
ESP Employee
Effective July 1,2001
Part-time employees.
Teacher
ESP Employee
Effective July 1,2002
Part-time employees.
Teacher
Career Service Employee
Regular hourly rate
Rate per Hour
$18.94
Regular hourly rate
Rate per Hour
$19.31
Regular hourly rate
Rate per Hour
$19.69
Regular hourly rate
APPENDIX B CONTRIBUTIONS TO HEALTH CARE PLAN ANNUAL CONTRIBUTIONS ON A PRE-TAX BASIS
Base Pay	Single	Couple	Family
Upto $27,000	$235.50	$269.25	$ 303.00
$27,001-$60,000	$530.00	$600.00	$ 690.00
$60,001 and up	$820.00	$937.50	$1,054.50
CONTRIBUTIONS PER PAY PERIOD ON A PRE-TAX BASIS			
Base Pay	Single	Couple	Family
Up to $27,000	$11.78	$13.46	$15.15
$27,001-$60,000	$26.50	$30.00	$34.50
$60,001 and up	$41.00	$46.88	$52.73
264
APPENDIX C
PROCEDURES FOR WAIVERS
FOR THE DURATION OF THIS AGREEMENT
1.	The school principal shall meet with the faculty during the school day to discuss any proposal which may require a waiver from any provision of this Agreement.
2.	In order to secure a waiver from any provision of this Agreement, a secret ballot vote shall be conducted among all CTU members assigned to the school.
3.	The procedures for conducting such a vote shall be mutually agreed upon between the principal and the school delegate.
4.	A majority of 50% plus one of the CTU members voting shall be required to approve a waiver. A waiver that is rejected may not be submitted more than once in any school year.
5.	If the waiver is approved, the principal and school delegate shall sign the waiver indicating that the voting procedures were followed and reporting the results of the vote.
6.	The waiver shall be submitted to the local school council for its approval or rejection.
7.	Copies of this approved waiver shall be forwarded immediately to the Office of Labor Relations and the Chicago Teachers Union.
8.	The approved waiver automatically terminates at the conclusion of the school year.
9.	Failure to implement the procedure, or failure to implement the approved waiver, or improper implementation of the approved waiver shall be subject to the grievance procedure pursuant to Article 3 of this Agreement.
The Board of Education shall develop and distribute procedures for waivers of BOARD policies and procedures.
265
INDEX
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
ABSENCES, TEACHER
Also see Board Rules Assault related.................... 44-8	146
Notice of return .................. 33-10	103
Reporting.......................... 27-2.1	80
Sick leave, FTBs................... 33-1.1,33-1.2	97
ABSENCES, CAREER SERVICE
Also see Board Rules
Assault Related ................... 44-8	146
ACCUMULATED SICK LEAVE................ 33-8	102
ADDRESS CHANGE ....................... 44-34	152
ADOPTED CHILD......................... 33-6.2	101
ADULT EDUCATION ASSIGNMENT............ 38-1.1	120
ADVANCED PLACEMENT (HIGH
SCHOOLS) ............................. 6-3	30
ADVERTISING TEACHING POSITIONS... 38-7	122
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM ........... 44-10	146
AGENCY FEE............................ 1-8.2	5
Coverage and notification.......... 1-8.2	5
Program and appeal procedure.......Appendix B	265
AGENDA
Professional Problems Committee 48-hour requirement............. 1-10	7
AGREEMENT Amendments/Notification............ 49-2	162
Date of signing.................... NA	1
Delivery .......................... 44-7	146
Reproduction ...................... 44-7	146
AMENDATORY ACT........................ 47-3	157
APPLYING FOR FUNDS.................... 44-1	145
ARBITRATION, OF GRIEVANCES ........... 3-5	16
ART
High school Classroom facilities ........... 6-6	30
Maximum class size ............... 28-2.1 II	85
25 period week ................... 41-1	133
Use of rooms during prep, periods. 6-8	31
Elementary
Assignment........................ 28-2.1 B7	85
Preparation period scheduling..... 4-9	22
ASSAULTS Absence with pay .................. 44-8	146
Assistance to member............... 30-6	89
Principal's responsibilities Notify Board of Education....... 30-6	89
Summon Police .................... 30-4	89
266
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
Report to Principal ................ 44-8.1,44-8.2 146,147
School Related
Worker's compensation coordination .. 44-8	146
Member's cooperation in legal action.44-8.2	147
ASSIGNMENT/APPOINTMENT
Adult education teachers............ 38-1.1	120
Appointed teachers ................. 38-1	119
Assistant principals................ 42-5	141
Curriculum/textbook committee....... 29-1	88
Driver education teachers .......... 11-1,11-5	50
Eligibility lists................... 38-1	119
Extracurricular activities ......... 13-5	52
FTB release procedures.............. 38-5	120
Hardship committees................. 38-6	122
Headteachers........................ 42-5	141
Library assistants ................. 9-2.3,15-3	37,54
P.E. teachers....................... 24-10	74
Racial integration.................. 38-2	120
Refusing appointment ............... 38-3	120
Social adjustment teachers ......... 21-4	67
Special education .................. 21-1.3	65
Special education FTBs.............. 21-1.1	65
Substitute teachers................. 38-5	120
Summer school ...................... 24-1,24-2	73
Teacher assignment procedures....... 38	119-122
Truant officers .................... 9-1.1	36
Vision screening/Audiometric technicians......................... 9-4.1, 9-4.2	40
ASSISTANT PRINCIPALS
Summer programming.................. 8-1	35
Substitute coverage................. 8-3	36
Vacancy list ....................... 8-3	36
ATTENDING IN-SERVICE PROGRAMS ... 44-2	145
AUDIOVISUAL
Assistants ......................... 15-19	56
Distribution ....................... 15-18	56
Drivers education films............. 11-6	50
Labeling films...................... 44-19	148
Storage facilities.................. 15-17	56
BAND ROOMS REHABILITATION.............. 6-19	33
BARGAINING UNIT DEFINED................1-2	2
BILINGUAL
Board/Union committee............... 45-2	154
Facilities ......................... 44-23	148
Native speakers..................... 6-4	30
No substitute service .............. 27-2	79
Physical facilities ................ 44-23	148
Substitute cadre ................... 27-1.1	78
267
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Substitutes........................ 44-36	152
Summer school ..................... 24-11	74
Transfers ......................... 42-2	135
Vacancy lists ..................... 44-37	153
BLIND AND PARTIALLY SIGHTED .......... 21-6	68
BOARD OF EDUCATION
Resolving grievances/professional problems.......................... 1-6	3
Pay for printing Agreement......... 44-7	146
BONUS
See “Salary: Voluntary Career
Opportunity program” BULLETIN BOARD ....................... 1-15,44-6	11,146
BUSINESS EDUCATION 25 period week ...................... 41-1	133
CADRE SUBSTITUTES..................... 27-1.1	78
Criteria........................... 27-1.1	78
Displaced FTBs..................... 27-1.1	78
Health insurance coverage.......... 27-1.1	78
Health insurance .................. 27-1.1	78
Holiday pay........................ 27-1.1	78
Salary ............................ 27-1.1	78
CALENDAR ............................. 44-31	150
CAREER SERVICE ....................... 9	36-48
Audiometric technicians:
See “VISION SCREENING AND
AUDIOMETRIC TECHNICIANS”
Derogatory statements ............. 34-4,34-4.1,
.................................. 34-5	105
Duty schedule...................... 4-15	24
Examinations ...................... 9-6.13	46
General provisions
Appointment/assignment............ 9-6.1	42
Eligible lists.................... 9-6.1	42
Emergency student supervision..... 9-6.9	44
Examinations...................... 9-6.13	46
Hours............................. 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedules ................ 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Pay upgrade review................ 9-6.12	46
Performance ratings............... 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits . 9-6.10	45
School security .................. 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedure and list ...... 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings............ 9-6.7	43
Guidance counselor aides...........9-17	48
Appointment/assignment............ 9-6.1	42
Emergency student supervision..... 9-6.9	44
268
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules ................... Appendix	A27 234-236
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
Instructor assistants ............... 9-11	48
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Duty schedules...................... 4-14	24
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules ................... Appendix	A30 244-246
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	40
Interpreter assistants............... 9-9	48
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Duty schedules...................... 4-14	24
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules ................... Appendix	A29 242-244
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
Interpreter clerks .................. 9-10	48
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules ................... Appendix	A26 228-234
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
269
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
Upgrade............................. 9-10.1	48
Library assistants .................. 9-2	37
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Board/Union committee .............. 45-13	157
Duties.............................. 9-2.2	37
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Performance upgrade review.......... 9-6.12	46
Posting duty schedules in elementary schools............................ 4-14	24
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules ................... Appendix A27 234-236
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
Work orders......................... 9-2.1	37
Workshops........................... 9-2.4	38
Licensed practical nurses............ 9-16	48
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules ................... Appendix A26 228-234
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
School assistants ................... 9-2	37
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Displacement........................ 9-8.1	48
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Recess duty rotation................ 9-8.1	48
Salary schedules ................... Appendix A32 253-255
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
270
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
School assistants-bilingual........... 9-8	48
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Recess duty rotation................ 9-8.1	48
Salary schedules ................... Appendix A32	253-255
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
School assistants-bilingual-Spanish... 9-8	48
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits.... 9-6.10	45
Recess duty rotation................ 9-8.1	48
Salary schedules ................... Appendix A32	253-255
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
School clerks ........................ 9-3	38
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Pay for week prior to Sept, opening .... 9-3.4, 9-6.4	38,43
Performance ratings distribution.... 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules
School clerk 1-Grade 9-40 wks...... Appendix A24	220-221
School clerk 1-Grade 9-48 wks...... Appendix A24	222-223
School clerk 1-Grade 9-52 wks...... Appendix A24	224-225
School clerk 1-Grade 8-40 wks...... Appendix A25	226
School clerk 1-Grade 8-48 wks...... Appendix A24	222-223
School clerk 1-Grade 8-52 wks...... Appendix A24	224-225
School clerk assistants-40 wks.....Appendix A28	236-238
School clerk assistants-48 wks.....Appendix A28	238-240
School clerk assistants-52 wks.....Appendix A28	240-242
271
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
School clerk 1 assignment ......... 9-3.5	38
School security ................... 9-6.8	44
Seniority ......................... 9-1.10	37
Staffing review - 1984 ............ 9-3.1	38
Substitutes........................ 9-3.3	38
Summer employment ................. 9-1.10	37
Temporary school clerks ........... 9-3.5, 9-3.7	38, 39
Training for new programs.......... 9-3.9	39
Transfer procedures and list....... 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings............. 9-6.7	44
Vacancy lists ..................... 9-3.2	38
Displacement....................... 9-7.1	47
School community representatives....9-7	47
Assignment......................... 9-6.1	42
Emergency student supervision...... 9-6.9	44
Examinations....................... 9-6.13	46
Hours.............................. 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule .................. 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ............... 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits .. 9-6.10	45
Release procedures ................ 9-7.1	47
Salary schedules .................. Appendix A30 244-246
Transfer procedures and list....... 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings............. 9-6.7	44
School social service assistants.... 9-13	48
Assignment......................... 9-6.1	42
Emergency student supervision...... 9-6.9	44
Examinations....................... 9-6.13	46
Hours.............................. 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule .................. 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits .. 9-6.10	41
Salary schedules .................. Appendix A32 253-255
Transfer procedures and list....... 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings............. 9-6.7	44
Speech pathology aides ............. 9-15	48
Appointment/assignment............. 9-6.1	42
Duty schedules..................... 4-14	24
Emergency student supervision...... 9-6.9	44
Examinations....................... 9-6.13	46
Hours.............................. 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule .................. 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ............... 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits .. 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules .................. Appendix A27 234-236
272
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
Speech pathology assistants.......... 9-14	48
Assignment.......................... 9-6.1	42
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules ................... Appendix A33	255-257
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Teacher assistants .................. 9-14	48
Administrative transfers............ 9-6.17	47
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Audio-visual distribution and maintenance ....................... 15-18, 15-19	56
Career ladder....................... 9-6.18	47
Displacement........................ 9-5.2,9-6.15	41,47
Duties ............................. 25-1	75
Duty schedules...................... 4-14	24
Educational sign language assistants. 9-14	48
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Employment numbers ................. 25-1	75
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Government-funded representation....25-2	75
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Library............................. 15-18	56
Montessori program.................. 9-14	48
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Recess duty rotation................ 9-5.4	41
Rules governing employment.......... 9-6.14	47
Salary schedules
40 weeks........................... Appendix A31	247-248
48 weeks........................... Appendix A31	249-250
52 weeks........................... Appendix A31	251 -252
School security .................... 9-6.8	44
Seniority .......................... 9-5.2	41
Special summer programs ............ 9-5.3	41
Staff development................... 9-6.17	47
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
273
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
Vacancy lists ...................... 9-5.1	41
Teacher assistants - Montessori...... 9-12	48
Administrative transfer............. 9-6.17	47
Assignment/transfer................. 9-6.1	42
Displacement........................ 9-6.15	47
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule.................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Rules governing employment.......... 9-16.14	47
Salary schedules.................... Appendix A30 244-246
School security..................... 9-6.8	44
Staff development................... 9-6.16	47
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
Truant officers ..................... 9-1	36
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Court appearances................... 9-1.6	36
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule.................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Pay upgrade review.................. 9-6.12	46
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
Provisional appointment benefits ... 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules
Senior truant officers ........... Appendix A24 219-221
Truant officers/bilingual
Spanish truant officers.......... AppendixA25 225-227
Seniority .......................... 9-1.10	37
Social center....................... 9-1.9	37
Summer employment .................. 9-1.11	37
Transfer procedures and list........ 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Working conditions.................. 9-1.3	36
Workshops and in-service meetings.... 9-1.4	36
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 9-6.7	44
Occupational therapists.............. 9-18	48
Appointment/assignment.............. 9-6.1	42
Duty schedules...................... 4-14	24
Emergency student supervision....... 9-6.9	44
Examinations........................ 9-6.13	46
Hours............................... 9-6.5	43
Pay day schedule ................... 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Performance ratings ................ 9-6.6	43
274
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Provisional appointment benefits . 9-6.10	45
Salary schedules ................. Appendix A24	219-221
School security .................. 9-6.8	44
Transfer procedures and list...... 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Unsatisfactory ratings............ 9-6.7	44
Vision screening and Audiometric technicians............ 9-4	40
Administration of tests .......... 9-4.1	40
Administrative transfers.......... 9-6.17	47
Appointment/assignment............ 9-6.1	42
Career ladder..................... 9-6.18	47
Certification..................... 9-4.9	40
Examinations...................... 9-6.13	46
Meetings ......................... 9-4.3	40
Pay day schedule.................. 9-6.3, 9-6.4	43
Pay upgrade review................ 9-6.12	46
Performance ratings .............. 9-6.6	43
Procedural changes ............... 9-6.5	43
Provisional appointment benefits . 9-6.10	45
Replacement equipment............. 9-4.8	40
Salary schedules.................. Appendix A27	234-236
Schedules......................... 9-4.2	40
Screening guidelines.............. 9-4.2	40
Seniority ........................ 9-1.10	37
Testing new EVGC students ........ 44-38	153
Time sheets ...................... 9-4.6	40
Transfer procedures and list...... 9-6.1,9-6.2,
9-6.11	42,43,45
Travel between schools............ 9-4.4	40
Travel reimbursement applications.9-4.6	40
Unsatisfactory ratings............ 9-6.7	44
CASE MANAGERS ........................ Appendix	A37	263
CERTIFICATION
Eligibility Lists ................. 38-1,38-4	119, 120
FTB................................ 23-4	71
CHANGE OF ADDRESS/PHONE NUMBER Notification to Board of Education ... 44-34	152
CHILD PARENT CENTERS
Board-Union Committee ................ 45-5	155
CHORUS ............................... 6-8,6-19	31,33
See “HIGH SCHOOL: Music”
CLASS COVERAGE........................ 27	77-80
Also see “CADRE” and “SUBSTITUTE
TEACHERS: Cadre”
Attending workshops/inservice meetings........................... 27-4	80
Availability of day-to-day substitutes . ... 27-6	80
275
SUBJECT	ARTICLE
Cadre................................ 27-1.1
During duty-free preparation periods..27-3
During required attendance at meetings or workshops ........................ 27-4
In emergency situations ............. 27-2
Hiring daytoday substitutes ......... 27-1
List of daytoday substitutes ........ 27-5
Preparation periods ................. 27-3
Reporting absences................... 27-2.1
When substitutes are unavailable..... 27-2
CLASSROOMS
Art.................................. 6-6
Chorus............................... 6-8
Instrumental music .................. 6-19
Mathematics ......................... 6-7
CLASS SIZE ............................. 28
Elementary, Middle Schools, Upper Grade Centers, Vocational Guidance Centers
Assignment of art/music teachers.. 28-2.1 IB7
Organization ..................... 28-2.1 I B
Reducing Kdg-3 classes in schools
with low scores ................. 28-2.1 I B 7
Reducing Kdg-3 classes............ 28-2.1 I B 6
Reports on space availability..... 28-2.1 I B 3
Schools with low math/reading
scores........................... 28-2.11 B 5, 6
Schools with space available ..... 28-2.1 IB1
Schools without space available...28-2.1.1 B 2
Board-Union committee to resolve
problems of overcrowding ....... 28-2.1 I B 4 b
Library/p.e. positions .......... 28-2.1 I B 4 b
Priority in assignment of
Cadre/day-to-day substitutes.... 28-2.4 I B 4
Where additional teachers are
assigned ....................... 28-2.1 I B 4
Staffing ......................... 28-2.1 I A
High School
Also see “TEACHING LOAD”
Basic or essential classes ......... 28-2.1	II A
Local school deviations ............ 28-2.1	II A
Staffing and organization........... 28-2.1	II
Art............................... 28-2.1	II B
Business Education................ 28-2.1	II A
Drafting ......................... 28-3
English........................... 28-2.1	II A
Foreign Languages................. 28-2.1	II A
General Music .................... 28-2.1	II B
PAGE
78
80
80
79
78
80
80
80
79
30
31
33
30 80-87
85
81
85
85
82
84, 85
81
82
83
83
83
83
80
85
85
85
86
85
87
85
85
86
276
SUBJECT	ARTICLE
General Science.................. 28-2.1 II A
Home Economics (lab) ............ 28-3
Home Economics (non lab) ........ 28-2.1	II	A
Laboratory Science .............. 28-2.1	II	A
Library ......................... 15-6
Mathematics ..................... 28-2.1	II	A
Physical Education .............. 28-2.1	II	B
Shop ............................ 28-3
Social Studies................... 28-2.1	II	A
Special Education................ 28-4
CLEAN FACILITIES...................... 44-4, 44-5
CLOSED CAMPUS
CLOTHING, REQUIRED BY LAW............. 44-12
COACHES
See “EXTRACURRICULAR PERSONNEL”
COMMITTEES............................ 45
Attendance and tardiness standards. 45-20
Career ladder for career service... 45-18
Career opportunity................. 45-8
Career service/credit applied when becoming a teacher................. 45-10
Catastrophic illness .............. 45-13
Child parent center guidelines..... 45-5
Clerical work/elementary teachers.. 45-3
Computer resource centers.......... 45-16
Curriculum ........................ 29-1
Early childhood education program..45-14
Employee assistance program........45-11
Employee attendance................ 45-15
Establishment clause .............. 45-1
Hardship review for extended pay teachers........................... 36-1.1
Hardship review for extended pay career service .................... 36-2.1
Hardship review for integration transfers - appointed teachers..... 38-6
Hardship review for integration transfers - FTBs................... 23-5
Health care........................ 45-6
Library curriculum ................ 15-13
Overcrowding....................... 28-2.1 I B 4
School safety...................... 45-14
Submitting reports................. 45-1
Substitute teacher recruitment..... 45-6, 45-12
Teacher evaluation................. 45-22
Teacher recruitment................ 45-6
Teacher salary credit for career service 45-10
TESL............................... 45-2
PAGE
85
87
85
85
55
85
86
87
85
87
146
147
154-158
153
153
150
156
157
155
154
158
88
157
157
158
154
108
110
122
72
155
56
83
157
154
151, 155
154
149
150
154
277
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Textbook evaluation		29-1	88
Textbook selection - elementary		4-17	24
Textbook selection - high school		6-22	34
Title IX		44-41	147
Voluntary career opportunity program...	45-8	156
Voluntary employee assistance		
programs		45-9	156
Year-round education program		45-15	158
CONFERENCES		
Efficiency rating 		39	123-131
FTB, removal from assignment		23-6	72
Leaves of absence 		33-5	98
Student discipline 		30-1,30-2	88, 89
Union representation 		3, 34-5.3	14-20, 106
With board employees		44-41	153
CONFORMITY TO LAW		..1-18, 47-1	13, 159
CONTRACTING OUT		44-24	148
CONTINGENCY CLAUSE		47-2	159
COOPERATIVE WORK TRAINING		
Student roster		41-6	134
Teaching load		41-8	134
Telephone access		41-7	134
COUNSELORS		7, 10	34, 49
Acting counselors		10-6	49
Also see “ELEMENTARY SCHOOL		
COUNSELORS”		
Counselor Information Institute for		
high school counselors		10-8	50
Counselor/school lists		10-4	49
Counselor/student ratio		10-1	49
Course completion requirements		7-6, 10-6	35, 49
Dual role		7-1, 7-2	34
Lists of schools/counselors		10-4	49
New building facilities		10-3	49
Reading tutorial program		7-7	35
Staff development/orientation meetings	7-5, 10-8	35, 50
Student testing		7-3, 10-5	35, 49
Telephones		7-4, 10-2	35, 49
Vacancy lists		7-8	35
COURT APPEARANCE		
Truant officers 		9-1.8	37
CURRICULUM		
Curriculum and textbook committees....	29-1	88
Guides 		44-25	149
List of high school summer subjects		24-7	74
Union representation on committees		29-1	88
CUSTODIAL SERVICE 		44-4, 44-5,	
	44-9	146, 147
278
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
DEAF, TEACHERS OF THE................ 21-2	66
Also see “SPECIAL EDUCATION:
Deaf/Hard of hearing”
DEATH Unused Sick Days .................... 37-3	119
Unused vacation pay............... 43-1.1	144
DEDUCTIONS Agency Fee .......................... 1-8.2	5
Credit union ..................... 1-8.1	4
CTU-PAC
Service fee...................... 1-8.4	7
Tax sheltered annuities........... 1-8.3	7
Deadlines on forwarding.......... 1-8.3	7
Union dues ....................... 1-8	4
DEFINITIONS Grievance ........................... 3	14
Reserve .......................... 42-3	137
Terms............................. 1-19	13
DELEGATES Furnishing name to principal......... 1-17.1	12
Handbook.......................... 1-7.2	4
Holding Union meetings............ 1-17	12
Information copies to principal... 1-16.1	12
Mailbox use....................... 1-16	12
Posting PPC members'names......... 1-15.1	12
DENTAL INSURANCE DMO/dependent coverage............... Appendix A35	265
Individual........................ 32-7,	96
Appendix A35	265
DEPARTMENT CHAIRPERSONS Library ............................. 15-11	55
High school programming........... 6-2	30
DEPARTMENT MEETINGS ................. 6-9	31
DEPARTMENTAL CLASSES Starting schedule.................... 4-2	20
DISCIPLINE Assault reports...................... 30-6	89
Court action..................... 30-6	89
Of an employee................... 30-6	89
Notification of legal rights..... 30-6	89
Principal's obligations.......... 30-6	89
Bargaining unit member responsibilities 30-7.1	90
Conferences....................... 10-2,30-1	49,88
Court action...................... 30-6	89
Diagnostic review................. 30-1,30-2	88, 89
Disciplinary suspensions not grievable.... 39-4.4	125
Discipline procedures for substitutes  30-8	90
Exclusion of students............. 30-1	88
279
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
Police notification................ 30-4	89
List of offenses.................. 30-4	89
Problem-solving.................... 30-7	90
Records............................ 30-5	89
Reinstating students............... 30-1	88
Shop classes....................... 18-6	61
Suspension......................... 30-3	89
Written referrals.................. 30-2	89
DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITIONS For disabilities...................... 2-2	14
For membership/non-membership...... 1-3	3
For participation in grievances.... 1-4	3
For striking/not striking.......... 44-27	149
In conformity with law............. 2-1	13
DISTRIBUTIVE EDUCATION................6-12	31
Duties............................. 41-2	133
Equipment ......................... 6-12	31
Teaching load...................... 41-2	133
DRAFTING 25 period week ....................... 41-1	133
Maximum class size ................ 28-3	87
Supply allocation ................. 6-18.1	33
DRIVER EDUCATION Assignments........................... 11-1,11-2,11-5	50
Conference rights.................. 11-4	50
Elementary teachers................ 11-3	50
Film purchase...................... 11-6	50
July 4 pay......................... 11-8	50
Salary ............................ Appendix	A15	216
Summer employment.................. 11-7	50
DUES DEDUCTION........................ 1-8	4
DUPLICATING FACILITIES ............... 31-1	90
DUTIES Kindergarten teachers'schedules....... 4-3	20
Librarian ......................... 15-15,	15-16	56
Non-custodial...................... 44-3	145
Posting schedules.................. 4-14	24
DUTY FREE PREPARATION PERIODS
Elementary teachers During the school day.............. 4-9	22
8:30 to 9:00 ..................... 4-9	22
Scheduled through last week....... 4-10	22
High school teachers Definition of school day........... 6-1, 25-1	27, 75
Employment of teacher assistants.. 25-1	75
DUTY PERIODS
High school laboratory science teachers 6-17	32
Vocational education teachers...... 18-2	60
280
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
EARLY DEPARTURE
Education/vocational guidance centers. 44-30	150
Elementary teachers............... 4-12	22
High school teachers.............. 6-16	31
Middle school teachers............ 5-5	26
Upper grade center teachers....... 5-5	26
EDUCATION SUPPORT PERSONNEL
See “CAREER SERVICE”
EDUCATIONAL SIGN LANGUAGE
INTERPRETERS
See “CAREER SERVICE: Interpreter assistants”
EDUCATIONAL VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE CENTERS
Available funds....................... 44-33	152
Class coverage........................ 27-1	77
Class size............................ 28-2.1	80-87
Duty-free preparation periods......... 25-1	75
Early dismissal....................... 44-30	150
Emergency supply money................ 44-32	151
In-service meetings................... 44-39	153
Late arrival.......................... 44-30	150
Open house............................ 41-4	133
Student vision and hearing tests...... 44-38	153
EFFECTIVE DATES.......................... 49-1	162
EFFICIENCY RATINGS ...................... 39	123-131
At local school ..................... 39-1	123
By new principals ................... 39-3	123
Career service....................... 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43,44
Completion of remediation plan Satisfactory completion.............. 39-7.5	129
Unsatisfactory completion........... 39-7.6	130
Consulting teachers................... 39-7.2	127
Day-to-day substitutes................ 39-3,39-4.3 116,118
Dismissal for cause................... 39-4.4, 39-7.8 123, 125
Distribution of ratings............... 39-1	123
Evaluation plan....................... 39-6.1	127
Evaluation schedule................... 39-7.4	128
Failure to successfully complete remediation plan..................... 39-7.6	130
FTB unsatisfactory ratings........... 39-4.2	124
New principals....................... 39-3	123
Orientation meeting ................. 39-1.1	123
Personnel file copy.................. 39-1	123
Probationary teachers schedule....... 39-3	123
Quarterly evaluations................ 39-7.4	128
Reduction of probationary teachers...39-5	126
Reduction to excellent.............. 39-5.1	126
281
SUBJECT
ARTICLE
PAGE
Reduction to satisfactory..........
Reduction of tenured teachers........
Reduction to excellent.............
Reduction to satisfactory..........
Remediation plan - teachers..........
Remediation plan - career service....
Review form..........................
Teacher evaluation review form.......
Tenure teachers evaluation plan......
Unsatisfactory rating procedures
Career service.....................
Day-to-day substitutes.............
Full-time-basis substitutes (FTBs).
Probationary teachers..............
Tenured teachers...................
Consulting teacher.................
Dismissal for cause................
Evaluation schedule................
Failure to successfully complete
remediation plan..................
Quarterly evaluations..............
Remediation plan...................
Review form........................
Satisfactory completion of remediation plan...................
Yearly rating.....................
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS
Assistance with non-teaching duties..
Assistant principals.................
Book distribution ...................
Class size provisions................
Committee on overcrowding..........
Funds for overcrowded schools......
Priority assignment of substitutes.
Schools with lowest reading and math scores.........................
Schools without space..............
Closed campus 10-minute breaks.....................
Approval by classroom teachers.....
Duty-free lunch....................
Duty schedules.....................
Hours..............................
Remaining in building after 2:30...
Review committee...................
Secret ballot vote.................
Counselors Dual role............................
39-5.2	126
39-9	131
39-9.1	131
39-9.2	131
39-7.3	128
9-6.7	44
39-8	130
39-8	130
39-6.1	127
9-6.7	44
39-4.3	125
39-4.2	124
39-4.1	123
39-7.1	127
39-7.2	127
39-7.8	130
39-7.7	130
39-7.6
39-7.4
39-7.3 39-8
130
128
128
130
39-7.5 39-2	129 123
25-1	75
8-2	36
4-5	21
28-2.1	80-87
28-2.1 B4	83
28-2.1 B4, B5	83, 84
28-2.1 B4a	83
28-2.1 B6	85
28-2.1 B2, 3	82
4-13	23
4-13	23
4-13	23
4-14	24
4-13	24
4-13.1	24
4-13	23
4-13	23
7-1, 7-2	34
282
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Facilities........................... 10-3	49
Orientation/staff development........ 7-5	35
Reading tutoring program............. 7-7	35
Requirements......................... 7-6,10-6	35,49
School lists......................... 10-4	49
Student ratio........................ 10-1	49
Student testing...................... 7-3,10-5	35,49
Telephone availability............... 7-4,10-2	35,49
Vacancies............................ 7-8,10-7	35,50
Departmental organization............. 4-2	20
Duplication of paper work............. 4-19	25
Duty schedules ....................... 4-14	24
Early childhood education matriculation dates................... 4-20	25
Early departure ...................... 4-11	22
Hours................................. 4-9,4-13	22,23
Kindergarten
Completion of records (early childhood & kindergarten)..... 4-3	20
In-service meeting days.............. 4-15	24
Half-time teachers................... 4-16	24
Pertinent information................ 4-1	20
Pupil placement...................... 4-1	20
Reassigned teacher status............ 4-7	21
Late arrival.......................... 4-11	22
Librarians
Adequate facilities.................. 15-4	54
Audio-visual equipment............... 15-7	55
Audio-visual maintenance distribution. 15-18	56
Bulletins............................ 15-9	55
Duties............................... 15-14, 15-15	56
Furniture requirements............... 15-6	55
Half-time............................ 15-16	56
In schools without space............. 28-2.1 I B 4 b	83
Library clerk ratio.................. 15-2	54
Additional clerical assistance...... 15-3	54
Preparation periods.................. 15-8	55
Primary grades....................... 15-5	55
Student/teacher ratio................ 15-1	54
Use of facilities in librarian's absence.. 15-7	55
Vacancy lists........................ 15-20	56
Library scheduling.................... 4-12	23
Lunch ................................ 4-6	21
On closed campus..................... 4-13	23
Newprograms........................... 1-11.1,1-11.2	8
Non-teaching time for kindergarten and
early childhood education teachers... 4-3	21
Physical education ................... 4-12	23
283
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Applications for supervisory positions . 16-3	57
Equipment.......................... 16-6	57
Facilities......................... 16-5	57
In schools without space........... 28-2.1 I B 4 b	83
In-service meetings................ 16-7	57
Programming........................ 16-4	57
Scheduling......................... 4-12	23
Safety patrol sponsors............. 16-2	56
Supervisory positions.............. 16-3	57
Supply money....................... 44-32	151
Title IX........................... 16-9	57
Travel time........................ 16-8	57
Posting duty schedules............... 4-14	24
Preparation periods
4th prep (art and music teachers).. 4-8	22
During the school day.............. 4-8	22
8:30 - 9:00........................ 4-9	22
Make-up imperative................. 4-9	22
Scheduled through last week........ 4-10	22
Paperwork............................ 4-19	25
Programming.......................... 40-1	131
Remaining in building after 2:30 if on closed campus....................... 4.13.1	24
Records ............................. 4-3	20
Relief periods when no recess........ 4-18	24
Safety patrol ....................... 16-2	56
Salary schedules .................... Appendix A 164-264
Schedules............................ 4-14	24
Schools without space................ 28-2.1	IB4	83
Special education ................... 21	64-69
Staff organization................... 28-2.1	IB	81
Substitutes.......................... 27	77-80
Reserve teacher definition
General............................ 42-3	137
In reclassified schools ........... 42-4	140
Supply/material funds
Distribution on 1st day of school . 4-5	21
For schools........................ 4-4	21
Staffing formula..................... 28-2.1	80
Teacher assistants................... 4-3, 9-5,	20, 38
25-1	75
Textbook committees.................. 4-17	24
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL COUNSELORS. 7	34,35
Completing course requirements....... 7-6	35
Half-time/assistant principals....... 7-1	34
Half-time/librarians................. 7-1, 7-2	34
Half-time kindergarten teachers...... 7-1, 7-2	34
Half-time p.e. teachers.............. 7-1, 7-2	34
284
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
List of schools/counselors.......... 10-4	49
Orientation meetings/staff development workshops.......................... 7-5	35
Reading tutoring program............ 7-7	35
Right to move to full-time position. 7-1	34
Student/teacher ratio............... 10-1	49
Student testing limit............... 7-3	35
Telephone use....................... 7-4,10-2	35,49
Vacancy lists....................... 7-8	35
ELIGIBILITY LISTS...................... 38-1,38-4	119,120
EMH, TMH, TEACHERS OF.................. 21-3	66
Also see “SPECIAL EDUCATION:
EMH/TMH” Books and materials money........... 21-3.3	66
Government funding proposals........ 21-3.8	67
Guidelines.......................... 21-3.7	67
Library and physical education...... 21-3.2	66
Meetings............................ 21-3.4	66
New high school teachers............ 21-3.5	66
Student placement................... 21-3.1	66
Student re-evaluations.............. 21-3.6	66
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES 44-10	147
EQUIPMENT
Accurate accounting................. 44-20	148
Counselors.......................... 7-4	35
Safety and special ................. 44-12	147
School nurses....................... 26-5	77
Truant officers..................... 9-1.3	36
EVALUATIONS
T e ac h e rs
See: “EFFICIENCY RATINGS”
Career service
See “CAREER SERVICE:
Performance ratings”
E.V.G.C.
See “EDUCATIONAL VOCATIONAL
GUIDANCE CENTERS”
EVENING SCHOOLTEACHERS............. 12	51
Holiday pay..................... 12-1	51
Salary.......................... Appendix A15	219
EXCLUSION OF STUDENTS See: “DISCIPLINE” EXTENDED DAY Counselors ........................ 10-6	49
Distributive education ......... 41-2	133
Office occupation education .... 41-3	133
SickPay......................... 33-9	103
EXTENDED PAY PLAN (52-WEEK PLAN)
285
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Career service..................... 36-2.1	110
Teachers........................... 36-1.1	108
EXTRACURRICULAR PERSONNEL ............ 13	52
Coaching priorities................ 13-2	52
Discontinuation of schedule........ 13-4	52
Head coaches....................... 13-5	52
High school yearbook/newspaper advisors program................... 13-1.1	52
Non-employee coaches............... Appendix A18	218
Parental permission procedures..... 13-8	53
Pay................................ 13-1,	52
Appendix A18	218
School activities schedule......... 13-3	52
Student safety..................... 13-6	53
Swimming requirement............... 13-7	53
FACULTY MEETING DECISIONS............. 44-6	146
FAIR PRACTICES ....................... 2-1	13
FAIR SHARE FEE........................ Appendix B	266
FAMILY (DEPENDENT) INSURANCE
COVERAGE Dental Insurance................... Appendix A35	265
Health Insurance
Board's right to change........... 32-2	93
FOREIGN LANGUAGE Bilingual education................... 6-4	30
Class size......................... 28-2.1	II A	85
High school organization/placement of students........................ 6-20	33
Summer school ..................... 24-11	74
FULL TIME BASIS SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS Application process................... 23-1	69
Conferences........................ 23-6	72
Definition ........................ 23-2	70
Dental Insurance................... 32-7,	96
Appendix A35	265
Displacement benefits.............. 38-5	120
Assignment to cadre............... 38-5 2 b	121
Assignment to cadre if numbers are at a maximum.................. 38-5 2 d	122
Full medical/dental benefits...... 38-5 2 b	121
Holiday pay....................... 27-1.1 U 5	79
Salary if displaced before serving 100 days.......................... 38-5 2 b	121
Salary if displaced after serving 100 days.......................... 38-5 2 b	121
Selection of new schools.......... 38-5 2 b U 2	122
Vacancy lists..................... 38-5 2 b	121
Vacation Pay ..................... 43-1.2	144
286
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Displacement procedures.............. 38-5	120
Efficiency ratings................... 39-4	123
Elimination of step freeze........... 23-4.2	72
Enhancing integration................ 23-5	72
Examinations......................... 23-4	71
Filling vacancies.................... 23-1	69
Illness leave........................ 33-1.1	97
Integration transfer hardship appeal. 38-6	122
Jobsecurity.......................... 23-4,38-5	71,120
Leave for illness in family.......... 33-1.4	98
Notifying substitute center.......... 27-6	80
Release procedures................... 38-5	120
Review committee..................... 23-5	72
Salary credit for previous teacher... 23-3	70
Hardship appeals.................... 23-5	72
Selection of new schools............. 38-5 2 b U 2	121
Seniority............................ 38-5	120
Unsatisfactory ratings............... 39-4.2	124
Vacation pay......................... 43-1	142
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE..................... 3	14-20
Arbitration.......................... 3-5	16
Board review (deleted)............... 3-4	16
Completion of hearings............... 3-5.1	16
Conference scheduling................ 3-7.3	18
Definition........................... 3	14
General provisions................... 3-7	17
General superintendent's review...... 3-3	15
Investigation........................ 3-7.5	18
Local level.......................... 3-1	14
Mediation............................ 3-8.1,3-8.2	19
Not under principal's jurisdiction... 3-6	17
Principal's conference............... 3-1.3	15
Principal's decision................. 3-1.5	15
Representation....................... 3-7.3	18
School level......................... 3-1	14
Subpoenas............................ 3-5.2	17
Time limits.......................... 3-7.4	18
Union representation................. 3-1.4	15
GUEST SPEAKER........................... 6-10	31
GUIDELINES
Special education ................... 21-3.7	67
HANDBOOK
Delegates............................ 1-7.2	4
HARDSHIP APPEALS/COMMITTEE
Extended pay - career service........ 36-2.1	110
Extended pay- teachers............... 36-1.1	108
FTB assignments...................... 23-5	72
Teacher transfer..................... 38-6	122
287
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
HARASSMENT............................ 2-1,49-3	13,162
HEALTH EXAMINATIONS................... 33-1.2	97
HEALTH INSURANCE See “INSURANCE”
HEALTH EXAMINATION After Sick Leave (FTB).............. 33-1.2	97
HEALTHY WORKING CONDITIONS............ 44-9	147
HEARING AND VISION TESTERS
See “VISION SCREENING/AUDIOMETRIC
TECHNICIANS”
HIGH SCHOOL Advanced Placement ................. 6-3	30
Art
Class size........................ 28-2.1 II B	86
Credit............................ 6-5	30
Facilities........................ 6-6	30
Supplies.......................... 6-18.2	33
25-period week.................... 41-1	133
Assistant principals
Business education Also see “PRACTICAL ARTS AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION”
Available funds for supplies and materials......................... 6-18	32
Class size ........................ 28-2.1 II A	85
Counselors See “COUNSELORS”
Department chairpersons consultations 6-2	30
Department meetings ............... 6-9	31
Distributive education Also see “PRACTICAL ARTS AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION”
Equipment....................... 6-12	31
Teaching load................... 41-2	133
Division
School day........................ 6-1	27
Student mathematics records....... 6-21	33
Drafting Also see “PRACTICAL ARTS AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION”
Supplies......................... 6-18.1	33
Teaching load.................... 41-1	133
Duty-free preparation periods...... 25-1	75
High school science lab teachers. 6-17	32
Duty periods....................... 25-1	75
High school science lab teachers.. 6-17	32
Duty schedules .................... 6-23	34
Early departure ................... 6-16	31
English
Class size........................ 28-2.1 II A	85
288
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Textbook committee................. 6-22	34
Extra curricular personnel
See “EXTRA CURRICULAR” Equipment........................... 6-12	31
Distributive education............. 6-12	31
Music Chorus.............................. 6-8	30
Instrumental...................... 6-8	30
Rehabilitation survey............. 6-19	33
Office occupation.................. 6-12	31
Foreign language
Also see “FOREIGN LANGUAGE” Class size.......................... 28-2.1	II	A	85
For native speakers............... 6-4	30
Organization/level/placement students.......................... 6-20	33
Textbook committee................ 6-4,6-20,	30,33
6-22	34
Funds............................... 6-18	32
Guest speakers ..................... 6-10	31
Home economics
See “PRACTICAL ARTS AND
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION” Hours .............................. 6-1	27
In-service meetings................. 6-13	31
Newspaper/yearbook sponsors........ 6-13	31
Instrumental music Rehabilitation survey................ 6-19	33
Use of room during prep, periods... 6-8	31
Journals............................ 6-11	31
Late arrival........................ 6-16	31
Library
Also see “LIBRARIANS: ELEMENTARY
AND HIGH SCHOOL” Adequate facilities............... 15-4	54
Additional clerical assistance.... 15-3	54
Audio-visual assistants........... 15-19	56
Audio-visual facilities........... 15-17	56
Audio-visual maintenance and distribution...................... 15-18	56
Bulletins......................... 15-9	55
Curriculum committees............. 15-13	56
Department chairpersons........... 15-11	56
In-service meetings/workshops..... 15-10	55
Library clerk ratio............... 15-2	54
Materials service center.......... 6-15	31
Planning/implementing program..... 15-12	55
Purchase of professional journals.. 6-11	31
289
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
Student/teacher ratio.............. 15-1	54
Vacancy lists...................... 15-20	56
Lunch ............................... 6-1	27
Materials Service Center............. 6-15	31
Mathematics
Class size ......................... 28-2.1 II A	85
Division teachers' responsibilities. 6-21	33
Textbook committee................. 6-22	34
Equipment........................... 6-7	30
Metal detector screening........... 6-24	34
Music
Class size
General music...................... 28-2.1 II B	86
Rehabilitation survey............... 6-19	33
Selection of records and sheet music . 44-28	149
Use of room during prep,	periods.... 6-8	31
New buildings........................ 6-6	30
Office occupations
Equipment............................ 6-12	31
Newteachers......................... 18-7,18-7.1	62
Physical education
Applications for supervisory positions . 16-3	57
Equipment........................... 16-6	57
Facilities.......................... 16-5	57
In-service meetings................. 16-7	57
Programming......................... 16-4	57
Student load........................ 28-2.1 II B	86
Time allotment review/clarification. 16-1	56
Travel time......................... 16-8	57
Professional materials............... 6-11	31
Programming
Consultation with department chairpersons....................... 6-2	30
Consultation re advanced placement classes ........................... 6-3	30
Department chairpersons' recommendations.................... 6-2	30
Publications......................... 6-11	31
Reading center....................... 44-40	153
Science
Class size.......................... 28-2.1 II B	86
Laboratory teachers programming..... 6-17	32
Shop teachers
See “PRACTICAL ARTS AND
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION”
Special education ................... 21	64-69
Supplies Drafting ........................... 6-18.1	33
290
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Emergency ........................ 44-32	151
High school funds................. 6-18	32
PAVE.............................. 18-5	61
Teacher assistants assignment...... 25-1	75
Teacher coordinator workshops...... 6-14	31
Textbook committees................ 6-22	34
HIV-AIDS POLICY POSTING............... 44-18	148
HOLIDAYS
Driver education .................. 11-8	51
Dr. King's birthday ............... 44-29	149
Evening school .................... 12-1	51
HOME ECONOMICS Class size............................ 28-3	87
HERO workload...................... 41-9	134
Maximum class size ................ 28-3	87
HOURS
Career service..................... 9-6.5	43
Closed campus...................... 4-14	24
Elementary......................... 4-9	22
Extracurricular.................... 13	52,53
High school........................ 6-1	27
Library assistants ................ 9-6.5	43
Middle schools..................... 5-3	25
Playground......................... 17-3,17-7,17-8 57-59
Psychologists ..................... 19-3	63
Stadia directors .................. 22-2	69
Truant Officers.................... 9-1.2	36
Upper grade centers................ 5-3	25
IMPLEMENTATION OF NEW PROGRAMS Board-Union........................... 1-11.1	8
Instruction........................ 1-11.2	8
New Union programs................. 1-11.1	8
INDUSTRIAL EXPERIENCE Vocational education teacher.......... 18-1	60
INFORMATION
Distribution Bulletin boards.................... 1-15	11
Delegates names................... 1-17.1	12
Copy to principal................. 1-16.1	12
Mailboxes ........................ 1-16	12
Exchange
Professional problems committee/ principal......................... 1-11	8
Receiving Lists of schools/counselors ....... 10-4	49
Report/information from the Board. 1-7	3
Staff lists....................... 1-11.4	9
Summer school appointment lists... 24-1.3	73
291
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
IN-SERVICE MEETINGS
Blind/partially sighted, teachers of.. 21-6.1	68
Cadre substitutes..................... 27-1	77
Coordinators.......................... 6-14	31
Elementary school counselors ......... 7-5	35
EMH teachers.......................... 21-3.5	66
Kindergarten teachers ................ 4-16	24
Librarians............................ 15-10	55
Newspaper/yearbook sponsors........... 6-13	31
Pay .................................. 44-2	145
P.E. teachers......................... 16-7	57
Required attendance .................. 44-2	145
Salary lane credit.................... 44-26	149
School clerks ........................ 9-3.6	38
School nurses......................... 26-6	77
Special education .................... 21-3.4	66
Speech pathology teachers............. 21-5.4	68
Substitute coverage................... 27-4	80
Vision screening/audiometric technicians ........................ 9-4.3	40
INSTRUMENTAL MUSIC
See “HIGH SCHOOL: Instrumental music”
INSURANCE................................ 32	91
Cadre coverage........................ 27-1.1	78
Clinical psychologists coverage ...... 32-1.2 U 6	92
Cost containment ..................... 32-6	95
Cost increase limits.................. 32-6	95
Dental................................ 32-7,	96
Appendix A35	263
Displaced FTB coverage................ 38-5 2 b	121
HMO coverage
Board's right to change.............. 32-2	93
Life insurance ....................... 32-3	95
Maternity leave ...................... 32-1.1 b	91
Original individual insurance article. 32-1	91
Major Medical Plan ................... 32-1.2	91
Personal illness...................... 32-1.1,32-3	91,95
Preferred provider option............. 32-1.2 U 8	& 9,	92
32-6	95
Premium payments while on leave for Duty disability ................... 32-1.1,32-3	91,95
Illness in family ................... 32-1.1(a)	91
Maternity............................ 32-1.1(b),	91
32-3	95
Personal illness..................... 32-1.1,32-3	91,95
Workers Compensation coordination of benefits......................... 32-5	95
INTERCOM ................................ 44-17	148
292
SUBJECT
ARTICLE
PAGE
INTEGRATION		46	158, 159
Assignments/appointments of teachers	38-1,38-2	119, 120
Compensatory education 		46-1 (3)	158
Curriculum 		46-1 (2)	158
Fair practices		2-1	13
FTB teachers		23-5	72
Plan to integrate faculties 		42-2	135
Problems in inner city schools		46-2	159
Reserve teachers		42-3	137
Staff instructional groups		46-2	159
Standardized tests		46-3	159
Transfers		42-2, 46-1 (1) 135, 158	
INTERPRETER ASSISTANT		
See “CAREER SERVICE: Interpreter		
assistants”		
INTERPRETER CLERK		
See “CAREER SERVICE: Interpreter		
assistants”		
INVENTORY		44-20	148
JOB SECURITY		
Coaching/non-p.e. teachers 		13-2	52
Driver education - elementary teachers	11-3	50
FTBS 		23-5, 38-5	72, 120
Regularly appointed teachers		42-2	135
KINDERGARTEN TEACHERS		
See “ELEMENTARY”		
KING HOLIDAY 		44-29	149
LABORATORY SCIENCE		
See “HIGH SCHOOL: Science”		
LANE PLACEMENT		
Credit for in-service/workshops 		44-26	149
PAVE teachers 		18-1	60
Special education teachers		21-1.2	65
LATE ARRIVAL		
Elementary 		4-12	23
EVGC schools		44-30	150
High schools		6-16	31
Middle schools		5-5	26
Upper grade centers		5-5	26
LEARNING DISABILITIES		21-8	68
LEAVES OF ABSENCE		
Adoption 		33-6.2	101
Applications for educational conferences,		
meetings, conventions, receiving		
university degrees		33-5.2	99
Application for personal illness leave ....	33-1.1	97
Commencement exercises		33-5	98
Death in family		33-3	98
293
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Educational conferences.............. 33-5.2	99
Extended day pay..................... 33-9	103
Extending personal illness leave..... 33-2	98
For conferences, workshops, meetings. 33-5	98
For Union service ................... 1-14	9
FTBs
Extending certificates while on leave .. 33-1.2	97
Illness in the family............... 33-1.4	98
Personal illness.................... 33-13	103
Personal illness application........ 33-1.1	97
When displaced...................... 33-1.3	97
Holding teaching positions........... 33-6, 33-6.1,	99
.................................... 33-13	103
Insurance coverage .................. 32-1.1,32-3	91,95
Maternity............................ 33-6	99
substitute service.................. 33-6.3	101
Maximum length of personal illness leave33-2	98
Notification of return from absence.. 33-10	103
Paternity............................ 33-6.1	99
substitute service.................. 33-6.3	101
Personal business days............... 33-7	101
60-day waiting period requirement... 33-7.1	102
Sabbatical........................... 33-14	104
Sick bank limits..................... 33-8	102
Sickleave............................ 33-1.1,33-13 97,103
Sick pay
60-day waiting period requirement... 33-8.1	103
On extended day programs............ 33-9	103
When leaving the school system...... 33-11	103
Workers'compensation................ 33-12	103
Special.............................. 33-5	98
Travel/study......................... 33-4	98
Unused sick days .................... 33-8	102
Workers'compensation................. 33-12	103
LEGAL ASSISTANCE
Assault Victims ..................... 30-6	89
Truant officers ..................... 9-1.8	37
LENGTH OF CONTRACT...................... 49-1	162
LIBRARIANS; ELEMENTARY AND
HIGHSCHOOL.............................. 15	54
Additional preparation time.......... 15-8	55
Adequate facilities.................. 15-4,15-17	54,56
Audio-visual assistance.............. 15-19	56
Audio-visual equipment............... 15-18	56
Bulletins............................ 15-9	55
Class size........................... 15-6	55
Clerical assistance.................. 15-3, 15-14	54, 56
Curriculum committees................ 15-3	54
294
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
Department chairperson............. 15-11	55
Duties............................. 15-15	56
Half-time.......................... 15-16	56
In-services/workshops.............. 15-10	55
Primary school children............ 15-15	56
Program............................ 15-12	55
Standards.......................... 15-1	54
Student/teacher ratio.............. 15-1,15-2	54
Teacher assistants................. 15-18	56
Use of library..................... 15-7	55
Vacancies.......................... 15-20	56
LIBRARY ASSISTANTS
See “CAREER SERVICE: Library
Assistants”
LIBRARY OPENINGS, Elementary)......... 4-13	24
LIFE INSURANCE ....................... 32-3	95
LISTS
Delegates directory................ 1-17.1	12
Delegate's name to principal....... 1-17.1	12
Furnishing names of CTU officers/field representatives.................... 1-17.1	12
Names of PPC members............... 1-15.1	12
LUNCH AREA............................ 44-14	147
LUNCH PERIODS
Career service..................... 9-6.5	43
Elementary ........................ 4-9	22
High school........................ 6-1	27
Kindergarten teachers ............. 4-17	24
Lunch room ........................ 44-14	147
P.E. teachers ..................... 16-8	57
Speech therapists.................. 21-5.2	67
Truant officers.................... 9-1.2	36
MAILBOXES ............................ 1-16	12
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS CLAUSE.............. 48-2	161
MARTIN LUTHER KING HOLIDAY............ 44-29	149
MATERNITY LEAVE
Day-to-day substituting............ 33-6.3	101
Duration of leave.................. 33-6	99
Extension to start of semester..... 33-6	99
Payment of health insurance........ 32-1.1(b)	91
Position held...................... 33-6	99
MATHEMATICS
See “HIGH SCHOOL: Mathematics” MAXIMUM CLASS SIZE.................... 28-2.1	80-87
MEETINGS
Attendance at meetings............. 1-13	9
Blind/partially sighted ........... 21-6.1	68
Elementary counselors.............. 7-5	35
295
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Posting of faculty meeting decisions. 44-6	146
General superintendent &
CTU president.................... 1-9	7
Grievance hearings ............... 3	14-20
High school departments........... 6-9	31
Pay .............................. 1-13	9
PPC and principal................. 1-10	7
School nurses..................... 26-6	77
Special education teachers........ 21-3.4	66
Union ............................ 1-17	12
MIDDLE SCHOOLS....................... 5	25-27
Also see “ELEMENTARY SCHOOL”....... 4	20-25
Class size ....................... 28-2.1	80
Closed campus..................... 5-3	25
Distribution of materials......... 5-1	25
Duty schedule..................... 5-7, 44-21	27 148
Early departure .................. 5-5	26
Emergency supply money............ 44-32	151
Governing provisions.............. 44-21	148
Hours ............................ 5-8	27
Late arrival...................... 5-5	26
Library
Class size....................... 5-6	27
Classes start.................... 5-2	25
Furniture requirement............ 5-6,15-6	27,55
Physical education classes start.. 44-21	148
Preparation periods .............. 5-4	26
(also see articles 4-11,4-11.1 and
4-11.2)
Processing books and supplies..... 5-1	25
MODIFYING/AMENDING AGREEMENT... 49-2	162
MUSIC
Also see: “HIGH SCHOOL: Music”
Elementary
Assignment....................... 28-2.1 IB7	85
For prep, period scheduling...... 4-11	22
High school Class size........................ 28-2.1	80
Selection of records/sheet music.. 44-28	149
Use of rooms during prep, periods. 6-8	31
NEWSPAPER SPONSOR.................... 13-1.1	52
NO STRIKE CLAUSE..................... 47-1	159
NOTIFICATIONS
Anticipated absence .............. 27-2.1	80
Changeofaddress .................. 44-34	152
Early departure Elementary........................ 4-12	23
Highschool....................... 6-16	31
296
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Middle school...................... 44-21	148
Upper grade center................. 44-21	148
Efficiency/performance ratings...... 9-6.6,39-1	43,123
Grievance hearings ................. 3	14-20
Late arrival
Elementary ........................ 4-12	23
High school ....................... 6-16	31
Middle schools..................... 44-21	148
Upper grade centers................ 44-21	148
Names of delegates, PPC members. 1-15.1,1-17.1	12
Police.............................. 30-4	89
PPC agenda.......................... 1-10	7
Principal's obligations in assaults. 30-6	89
Student disciplinary exclusions..... 30-1	88
Union meetings...................... 1-17	12
OFFICE OCCUPATIONS TEACHERS
Also see “HIGH SCHOOL: Office occupation teachers”
Equipment .......................... 6-12	31
Duties, load, preparation .......... 41-3	133
OPEN HOUSE ............................ 41-4	133
ORIENTATION DAY
Teachers and school clerks.......... 44-13	147
OVERTIME PAY DURING LEAVES............. 33-9	103
PARAPROFESSIONALS AND
SCHOOL RELATED PERSONNEL
See “CAREER SERVICE” PARKING LOTS .......................... 44-11	147
PARTICIPATION IN CONFERENCES/
MEETINGS/NEGOTIATIONS.................. 1-13	9
PATERNITY LEAVE
See “LEAVES OF ABSENCE: Paternity” PAY
See “SALARY”
PAY DAY SCHEDULES/CAREER SERVICE 9-6.3	43
PAY PRIOR TO THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY 36-6	115
PAYROLL DEDUCTION
Agency fee ......................... 1 -8.2	5
Annuity ............................ 1-8.3	7
CTU-PAC ............................ 1-8.4	7
Reports............................. 1-7.1	4
Union dues ......................... 1-8	4
PENSION PICK-UP ....................... 36-3.1	112
PENSIONERS, 100-DAY Psychologists...................... 19-5	63
PERFORMANCE RATINGS/CAREER
SERVICE Instructor assistants............... 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
297
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Interpreter assistants.............. 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43,44
Interpreter clerks.................. 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43,44
Library assistants.................. 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
School assistants................... 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
School assistants/bilingual......... 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
School assistants/bilingual Spanish. 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
School clerks....................... 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
School community representatives.... 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
Speech pathology assistants......... 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
Teacher assistants.................. 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
Teacher assistant/Montessori........ 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
Truant officers..................... 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
Vision screening/Audiometric technicians.......................... 9-6.6, 9-6.7	43, 44
PERFORMANCE RATINGS/TEACHERS
See “EFFICIENCY RATINGS” PERSONAL BUSINESS DAYS................. 33-7	101
Convert to sick days ............... 33-7	101
PERFORMING CUSTODIAL DUTIES............ 44-3	145
PERSONNEL CONFERENCES AND FILES
Advanced notification when summoned to meetings.......................... 34-5.2	106
Anonymous materials................. 34-1	104
Day-to-day substitutes.............. 34-6	106
Examination rights.................. 34-2	105
Derogatory statements from outside
school system Career service...................... 34-4.1	105
Day-to-day substitutes............ 34-6	106
Teachers.......................... 34-4	105
Examination rights.................. 34-2	105
Grievance materials.................... 34-3	105
Materials submitted by teachers..... 34-5	105
Materials used at conference ....... 34-5	105
No anonymous materials.............. 34-1	104
No material from outside system .... 34-4	105
Parent conferences..................... 34-5.3	106
Teacher's rights to dated copy ..... 34-4.1	105
Union representation ............... 34-5.2	106
Viewing file........................ 34-2	105
PHYSICAL EDUCATION TEACHERS............ 16	56
Attire changes...................... 16-4	57
Equipment........................... 16-6	57
Facilities.......................... 15-5	55
Half-time........................... 16-8	57
In-services......................... 16-7	57
Safety patrol....................... 16-2	56
Supervisory positions............... 16-3	57
298
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Time allotment...................... 16-1	56
Title 9............................. 16-9	57
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Art classes ........................ 6-6	30
Audio-visual ....................... 15-17	56
Counselor .......................... 10-3	49
Duplicating machines................ 31	90
Library ............................ 15-4	54
Mathematics......................... 6-7	30
Parking lots........................ 44-11	147
Physical education ................. 16-5	57
School nurses....................... 26-5	77
Social workers' files............... 20-2	64
Speech pathology teachers........... 21-5.3	67
Teachers'lunchroom ................. 44-14	147
Truant officers .................... 9-1.3	36
PLAYGROUND TEACHERS.................... 17	57-59
Emergency supply and equipment fund 17-4	58
Hours............................... 17-5	58
Layoff periods...................... 17-6	58
Length of school year............... 17-2	57
Pay................................. 17-1	57
Professional problems committee meetings............................ 17-7	58
Salary reference.................... 17-1	57
Security............................ 17-10	59
Seniority........................... 17-6	58
Stadia ............................. Appendix A20	218
Substitutes......................... 17-3	57
Substitute rate of pay ............. Appendix A21	218
Transfer............................ 17-8	59
Vacancy lists....................... 17-9	59
Voluntary transfers ................ 17-8	59
POLITICAL ACTION DEDUCTION............. 1-8.4	7
PRACTICAL ARTS AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION (P.A.V.E.)................... 18	60-62
Class size.......................... 28-3	87
EMH student placement............... 18-3	61
8-hour day stipend.................. Appendix A10	214
Food service teachers'prep periods.. 18-4.1	61
Home economics coordinator requirement......................... 18-7.1	62
Office occupation/distributive education coordinator requirement............. 18-7	62
Placement on salary schedules....... 18-1	60
Shop/laboratory class programming... 18-4	61
Student exclusion................... 18-6	61
Supply money........................ 18-5	61
299
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Teacher schedule...................... 18-2	60
PREAMBLE................................................ 1
PREFERENCE SHEET......................... 40-2	132
PREPARATION PERIODS
Elementary Art/music additional periods....... 4-8	22
During regular school day............ 4-8	22
8:30 to 9:00 ........................ 4-9	22
Make-up periods...................... 27-3	80
No substitute service................ 27-3	80
Preparation periods.................. 15-8	55
Through last Wednesday of year....... 4-10	22
Highschool............................ 25-1	75
Make-up periods...................... 27-3	80
Practical arts and vocational education. 18-2	60
PROFESSIONAL PROBLEMS COMMITTEE Agenda................................ 1-10	7
Composition .......................... 1-10.1	8
Development of art/music schedule..... 4-8	22
Exchange of pertinent information..... 1-11	8
Expending funds generated by overcrowding....................... 28-2.1	IB4	83
Expending funds generated by low reading and math scores............ 28-2.1	I	B	5	84
Implementation of Board/Union programs........................... 1-11.1	8
Implementation of new instructional programs at school................. 1-11.2	8
Monthly meetings...................... 1-10	7
Notice of members to principal........ 1-10.1	8
Playground teachers................... 17-7	58
Posting PPC committee members' names 1-15.1	12
Reporting proceedings of meetings..... 1-10.2	8
Use of library in librarian's absence. 15-7	55
PROGRAMMING Assignment of classrooms.............. 40-5	132
Consecutive teaching assignments...... 40-4	132
Consecutive teaching assignments...... 40-4	132
Consultation re advanced placement.... 6-3	30
Consultation with department chairpersons....................... 6-2	30
Cooperative vocational education...... 40-8	132
Deaf students ........................ 21-2.1	66
Department chairpersons' recommendations.................... 6-2	30
Distribution of preference sheets..... 40-2	132
EMH students.......................... 21-3.1	66
EMH divisions........................ 21-3.1	66
300
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
Library........................... 21-3.2	66
PAVE classes...................... 18-3	61
Foreign language................... 6-20	33
High school programmer -.summer school............................ 8-1	35
Lesson preparations................ 40-5	132
Library for primary students....... 15-5	55
Library/P.E. for EMH and TMH students 21-3.2	66
Number of lesson preparations...... 40-6	132
Preference sheets.................. 40-2	132
Rotation of qualified teachers..... 40-1,40-7	131,132
Science laboratory teachers........ 6-17	32
Student registration - cooperative vocational education classes...... 40-8	132
Tentative teaching program......... 40-3	132
Vocationaleducation ............... 18-3	61
PROMOTIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL
OPPORTUNITIES......................... 35	106
Acknowledgment of application receipt. 35-3	107
Career service..................... 35-7	107
Details to be contained in notice.. 35-2	107
Efficiency ratings requirement..... 35-8	107
Elementary counselors.............. 7-1	34
P.E. teachers ..................... 16-3	57
Posting notice..................... 35-1	106
Reading clinic positions........... 35-5	107
Reporting new ancillary positions.. 35-6	107
Self-addressed stamped envelope.... 35-4	107
PROVISIONAL SOCIAL WORKERS............ Appendix A5	213
PROVISIONAL TEACHERS.................. Appendix A4	212
PROXY FOR VACATION CHECKS
Displaced career service .......... 43-1.1	144
Displaced teachers................. 43-1.2	144
Due to death....................... 43-1.1	144
Written application................ 43-1.1	144
PSYCHOLOGISTS Emeritus ............................. Appendix A3.B 212
Hours.............................. 19-3	63
Increment.......................... 19-2,	62
Appendix A14 215-216
Meetings with EMH/TMH teachers..... 21-3.4	66
100-day pensioners................. 19-5	63
Supernumerary pay.................. 19-4	63
Transfer........................... 19-4	63
Vacancy lists...................... 19-4	63
Work year.......................... 19-1	62
READING Counselor's tutoring program.......... 7-7	35
301
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Elementary program.............. 4-1	20
READING CENTER LABORATORY
TEACHERS........................ 44-40	153
RECESS DUTY
Rotation of teacher assistants.. 9-5.4	41
Rotation of school assistants... 9-8.1	48
RECOGNITION........................ 1-1, 1-2	2
RECORDS,STUDENT
Confidentiality................. 20-2	64
Processing time ................ 4-3	20
REFUSING APPOINTMENT............... 38-3	120
REGISTRATION OF VOCATIONAL
EDUCATION STUDENTS................. 40-8	132
REHABILITATION
Survey of instrumental music rooms. 6-19	33
REINSTATEMENT ELIGIBILITY LIST..... 42-3	137
RELEASE OF SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS .	38-5	120
REPORT CARD PICKUP................. 41-4	133
REPORTS
Board .......................... 1-7, 1-7.1	3, 4
Board bulletins................. 1-7.3.	4
General......................... 1-7	3
Monthly substitute ............. 1-7.1	4
Payroll ........................ 1-7.1	4
Professional problems committee. 1-10.2	8
Union........................... 1-7.2	4
REPRESENTATION .................... 1-1, 1-2	2
At grievance hearings........... 1-5, 3-7.3	3, 18
At personnel conferences........ 34-5.2	106
Union as exclusive bargaining agent. 1-1, 1-2	2
Resolution of professional problems. 1-5	3
With parent representatives..... 34-5.3	106
REPRODUCING AGREEMENT.............. 44-7	146
REQUIRED ATTENDANCE................ 44-2	145
REQUIREMENTS
Counselors ..................... 7-7	35
FTBs............................ 23-1	69
RESERVE
Definition...................... 42-3	137
In reclassified schools......... 42-4	140
Kindergarten teachers .......... 4-10	21
Psychologists .................. 19-4	63
School social workers........... 20-3	64
Speech pathology teachers....... 21-5.1	67
Teachers ....................... 42-4	140
RESIGNATIONS
Notification ................... 44-44	153
RESOLUTION OF GRIEVANCES/ 302
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
PROFESSIONAL PROBLEMS .............. 1-6, 1-7	3
RESTRUCTURED SCHOOL DAY
See “ELEMENTARY SCHOOL: Closed
Campus”
SAFETY/SECURITY
Career service .................. 9-6.8	44
Safety equipment................. 44-12	147
Special clothing................. 44-12	147
Vocational teachers.............. 18-6	61
Working conditions............... 44-9	147
Working out solutions............ 44-22	148
SAFETY PATROL WEEKLY PERIOD......... 16-2	56
SALARIES ........................... 36	108-116
Absence for death in family ..... 33-3	98
Adjustment claims ............... 36-4,36-5	114, 115
Applications
Burden of proof................. 36-5	115
Receipt......................... 36-5.1	115
Approved course work............. 36-7.1	116
Bonus program.................... 36-7,36-7.2 115,116
Cadre substitutes ............... 27-1.1	78
Credit for lane placement........ 44-26	149
Credit for outside teaching...... 36-4	114
Extended pay
Career service.................. 36-2.1	110
Teachers........................ 36-1.1	108
Forty-week school year........... 44-31	150
Hardship appeal for extended pay
Career service.................. 36-2.1	110
Teachers........................ 36-1.1	108
Overtime pay during leaves of absence. 33-9	103
PAVE............................. 18-1	60
Pension pick-up.................. 36-3.1	112
Playground teachers.............. 17-1,17-2	57
Psychologists ................... 19-2	62
Schedules........................ Appendix	A	164-264
Severance pay ................... 37-1,2	and 3	117-119
Special education lane placement. 21-1.2	65
Stadium directors ............... 22-1	69
Step increases................... 36-4	114
Vacation......................... 43	142-149
Week before schools open......... 44-13	147
SALARY SCHEDULES/RATES.............. Appendix	A	164-264
SCHOOL ASSISTANTS
See “CAREER SERVICE: School assistants”
SCHOOL CALENDAR
See “CALENDAR”
303
SUBJECT
ARTICLE
PAGE
SCHOOL CLERKS
See “CAREER SERVICE: School clerks” SCHOOL COMMUNITY REPRESENTATIVES
See “CAREER SERVICE: School community representatives”
SCHOOL HOURS Career service......................... 9-6.5	43
Closed campus....................... 4-13	23
Elementary ......................... 4-9	22
High school......................... 6-1	27
Middle schools...................... 5-8	27
Upper grade centers................. 5-8	27
Playground ......................... 17-3	57
Truant officers .................... 9-1.2	36
SCHOOL NURSES.......................... 26	76
Duties.............................. 26-4	77
Facilities.......................... 26-5	77
Meetings with EMH/TMH teachers...... 21-3.4	66
Orientation meetings................ 26-6	77
Reserve............................. 26-2	76
Salary credit for outside nursing experience.......................... 26-7	77
School year......................... 26-3	76
Supervision......................... 26-4	77
Telephone availability.............. 26-5	77
Transfer............................ 26-1	76
Vacancy lists....................... 26-1	76
Work year........................... 26-3	76
SCHOOL ORGANIZATION Also see “Programming” High school
Advanced placement................. 6-3	30
Definition of school day........... 6-1	27
Department chairperson consultation.. 6-2	30
Division periods .................. 6-1	27
Passing time....................... 6-1	27
Records............................ 30-5	89
Vocational education classes....... 18-6	61
SCHOOL VISITS.......................... 1-12	9
SECURITY............................... 44-22	148
SENIORITY Also see “RESERVE”
School clerks...................... 9-3.5, 9-3.8	38,39
Truant officers..................... 9-1.10	37
SENIORITY LISTS/TEACHERS............... 44-35	152
SICK LEAVE See “LEAVES OF ABSENCE”
SICK PAY............................... 37	117-119
304
SUBJECT	ARTICLE PAGE
See “UNUSED SICK DAYS”
SLIAG
See “STATE LEGISLATION IMPACT
ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM”
SOCIAL CENTER ......................... Appendix A22	218
SOCIAL WORKERS ........................ 20	63-64
Confidential records................ 20-2	64
Increment........................... Appendix A14	215
Meetings with EMH/TMH teachers...... 21-3.4	66
Reserve............................. 20-3	64
Telephone availability.............. 20-2	64
Transfer............................ 20-3	64
Vacancy lists....................... 20-3	64
Work year........................... 20-1	63
SPECIAL EDUCATION GUIDELINES........... 1 -11.3	8
SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHERS............. 21	64-69
Behavior disordered/ERA............. 21-7	68
In-service meetings................ 21-7.1	68
Requirements....................... 21-7.2	68
Blind/Partially sighted conferences. 21-6.1	68
In-service meetings................. 21-6.2	68
Deaf/Hard of hearing................ 21-2	66
Mainstreaming students............. 21-2.1	66
Student safety..................... 21-2.2	66
EMH, TMH Books/materials fund................ 21-3.3	66
Govt, funded program	proposals... 21-3.8	67
Guidelines......................... 21-3.7	67
High school books/materials allocation......................... 21-3.3	66
In-service for new high school teachers21-3.5	66
Library classes.................... 21-3.2	66
Meetings........................... 21-3.4	66
Physical education classes......... 21-3.2	66
Representation on funding proposal committees......................... 21-3.8	67
SLD student placement.............. 21-3.1	66
Student re-evaluation.............. 21-3.6	66
FTB assignment/displacement......... 21-1	64
Funds............................... 21-1.3	65
Lane credit......................... 21-1.1	65
Learning disabilities............... 21-8	68
Student re-evaluation.............. 21-8.1	68
Orthopedically handicapped.......... 21-10	68
In-service meetings................ 21-10.1	68
Physical therapists................. 21-9	68
Amending handbook.................. 21-9.1	69
Speech pathology teachers........... 21-5	67
305
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Facilities....................... 21-5.3	67
In-service meetings/workshops.... 21-5.4	68
Reserve.......................... 21-5.1	67
Speech and language impaired..... 21-5.5	68
Stipend.......................... Appendix A14	219
Transfer......................... 21-5.1	67
Travel allowance................. Appendix A34 261-263
Travel time...................... 21-5.2	67
Vacancy lists.................... 21-5.1	67
Supply lists...................... 21-1.3	65
Vacancy lists..................... 21-1.2	65
SPEECH PATHOLOGY ASSISTANTS.......... 9-14	48
See “CAREER SERVICE: Speech
Pathology Assistants” Recognition...................... 1-1	2
SPEECH PATHOLOGY TEACHERS
See “SPECIAL EDUCATION TEACHERS:
Speech pathology teachers” Increment ...................... Appendix A14	215
Program......................... 13-1.1	52
STADIUM DIRECTORS.................... 22	69
Hours ............................ 22-2	69
Increment......................... 22-1	69
STATE LEGISLATION IMPACT ASSISTANCE GRANT PROGRAM (SLIAG)................ Appendix A38	263
STATISTICS........................... 1-7	3
STRIKE............................... 44-27	149
STUDENT ORIENTATION.................. 44-13	147
STUDENT PLACEMENT
First grade....................... 4-1	20
STUDENT/TEACHER RATIO Counselors .......................... 10-1	49
Kindergarten...................... 28-2.1	80
Librarians........................ 15-1	54
Library assistants................ 15-2	54
Truant officers................... 9-1.9	37
SUBSTITUTE CENTER Availability for work................ 27-6	80
SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS.................. 23	69
Assistant principals.............. 8-3	36
Bilingual ........................ 44-36	152
Classifications/definitions....... 23-1,23-2	69, 70
Day-to-day/cad re Current numbers to be hired.......27-1.1 U 3	78
Displaced FTB rights Assignment to cadre............. 38-5 2b	120
Assignment to cadre if numbers are at maximum.................. 38-5 2d	122
306
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Full medical/dental benefits...... 38-5 2b	121
Salary if displaced before serving 100 days........................... 38-5 2b	121
Salary if displaced after serving 100 days........................... 38-5 2b	121
Vacancy lists..................... 38-5 2b	121
Health insurance................... 27-1.1 U 5	79
Individual coverage............... 27-1.1 U 5	79
Optional family coverage.......... 27-1.1 H 5	79
Holiday pay........................ 27-1.11] 5	79
In-service training requirement.... 27-1.1 U 2	78
Priority in hiring................. 27-1.11] 5	79
Salary............................. 27-1.1 H 5	79
School clerks...................... 9-3.3	38
Unsatisfactory ratings............. 39-4.3	125
Day-to-day/casual Salary............................... Appendix A 164-264
Unsatisfactory ratings............. 39-4.3	125
Full-time-basis (FTB) teachers
Also see “FULL-TIME-BASIS
SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS: High school” and “Elementary school” Application process............... 23-1	69
Conferences....................... 23-6	72
Definition........................ 23-2	70
Dental insurance.................. 32-7,	96
Appendix A35	263
Displacement benefits............. 38-5	120
Assignment to cadre............... 38-5 2b	121
Assignment to cadre if numbers are at maximum..................... 38-5 2d	122
Full medical/dental benefits...... 38-5 2b	121
Holiday pay....................... 27-1.1 U 5	79
Full medical/dental benefits..... 38-5 2b	121
Salary if displaced before serving 100 days........................... 38-5 2b	121
Salary if displaced after serving 100 days........................... 38-5	2b	121
Selection of new schools.......... 38-5	2b U 2	121
Vacancy lists..................... 38-5	2b	121
Vacation pay...................... 43-1.2	144
Displacement procedures............ 38-5	120
Elimination of step freeze......... 23-4.2	72
Enhancing integration.............. 23-5	72
Examinations....................... 23-4	71
Filling vacancies.................. 23-1	69
Job security....................... 23-4, 38-5	71, 120
Notifying substitute center........ 27-6	80
307
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Salary applications................. 23-4.1	72
Salary credit for previous teaching. 23-3	70
Hardship appeals.................. 23-5	72
Selection of new schools............ 38-5 2 b U 2	121
Seniority........................... 38-5	120
Unsatisfactory ratings.............. 39-4.2	124
SUMMER SCHOOL........................... 24	73-75
Applications......................... 24-1.1	73
Assignment lists .................... 24-1.3	73
Assignment notification of career service 24-1.2	73
Assignment notification of teachers.. 24-1	73
Assignment procedures Exceptions.......................... 24-3	73
Order............................... 24-2	73
Two-year rule....................... 24-4	74
Bilingual/TESL....................... 24-11	74
Career service assignment procedures. 24-1.2	73
Drivers education.................... 11-7	50
Filling positions after 10th day..... 24-13	75
Final grade timelines................ 24-5	74
Funds................................ 24-9	74
High schools
Assistant principal/programmers..... 8-1	35
Final grades........................ 24-5	74
Hours/pay........................... Appendix A16	216
Subject offerings................... 24-7	74
List of teachers/career service...... 24-1.3	73
Physical education................... 24-10	74
Salary............................... 24-8	74
School clerk positions............... 24-12,24-14	75
Special education funding ........... 24-9	74
Student orientation.................. 44-13	147
Textbook availability................ 24-6	74
Two-year rule........................ 24-4	74
Truant officers...................... 9-1.1	36
SUPERNUMERARY See “RESERVE”
SUPPLIES
Art.................................. 6-18.2	33
Catalogs Elementary.......................... 4-5	21
High school ........................ 6-19	33
Special education .................. 21-1.3	65
Drafting............................. 6-18.1	33
Emergency ........................... 44-32	151
Emergency money/classroom teachers 44-32	151
EMH ................................. 21-3.3	66
EVGC ................................ 44-33,44-39 152,153
Physical education .................. 16-6	57
308
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Playground....................... 17-6	58
Practical arts and vocational education 18-5	61
SUSPENSION OF STUDENT............... 30-3	89
SWIMMING POOLS...................... Appendix A23	219
TARDINESS
Elementary ...................... 4-11	22
High school...................... 6-16	31
TEACHER ASSISTANTS
See “CAREER SERVICE: Teacher
Assistants”
TEACHING LOAD ...................... 41	133-134
Art.............................. 41-1	133
Business education............... 41-1	133
Cooperative work training........ 41-6,41-7,41-8 134
Distributive education .......... 41-2	133
Drafting ........................ 41-1	133
EVGC............................. 41-1	133
Home Economics (HERO)............ 41-9	134
Industrial cooperative education. 41-5	133
Music............................ 41-1	133
Office occupation................ 41-3	133
Physical education............... 41-1	133
TERMINATION OF DUES................. 1-8	4
TESL VACANCIES...................... 44-37	153
TEXTBOOK LIST DEADLINE.............. 44-16	148
TRANSFER
Career service .................. 9-6.2	43
Students
Truant officers
Custody........................ 9-1.8	37
Records........................ 9-1.7	37
Teachers
Application/receipt............. 42-1	134
Assignment from lists........... 42-2	135
FTBs............................ 38-5	120
In reclassified schools......... 42-4	140
Integration..................... 42-2.1	136
Lists........................... 42-1,42-1.1 134,135
Procedures...................... 42-2	135
Requirements.................... 42-1	134
Reserve......................... 42-3	137
Vacancy lists................... 42-3	137
While on illness leave.......... 42-1.1	135
Truant officers.................. 9-1.10	37
TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCE
CHECKS.............................. 44-15	147
TRAVEL LEAVE
See “LEAVES OF ABSENCE: Travel”
309
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT............. Appendix A34	261-263
TRAVEL TIME
Kindergarten teachers ........ 4-16	24
P.E. teachers ................ 16-8	57
Speech pathology teachers..... 21-5.2	67
TRESPASSING ..................... 30-4	89
TRUANT OFFICERS See “CAREER SERVICE: Truant officers”
TUTORING PROGRAM................. 7-8	35
UNION MEETINGS................... 1-17	12
UNSATISFACTORY RATINGS
Career service
See “CAREER SERVICE:
Performance ratings”
Teachers
See “EFFICIENCY RATINGS”
UNUSED SICK DAYS
Accumulation........................ 33-8	102
Limit............................... 33-8	102
Pay upon death...................... 37-3	119
Pay upon retirement................. 37-1	117
UPGRADING
List of groups whose jobs will be reviewed............................ 9-6.12	46
UPPER GRADE CENTERS ................... 5	25-27
Also see “ELEMENTARY SCHOOL”........ 4	20-25
Class size ......................... 28-2.1	80
Closed campus....................... 5-3	25
Distribution of materials........... 5-1	25
Duty schedules ..................... 5-7	27
Early departure .................... 5-5	26
Emergency supply money.............. 44-32	151
Governing provisions................ 44-21	148
Hours .............................. 5-8	27
Late arrival........................ 5-5	26
Library Class size.......................... 5-6	27
Classes start...................... 5-2	25
Furniture requirement.............. 5-6,15-6	27,55
Physical education classes start.... 5-2	25
Preparation periods ................ 5-4	26
(also see Articles 4-11, 4-11.1 and
4-11.2)
Schedules........................... 5-2	25
VACANT TEACHING POSITIONS ............. 23-1	69
VACANCY LISTS Counselors ............................ 10-4,10-7	49,50
Librarians.......................... 15-20	56
310
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	PAGE
Library assistants 		9-6.4	43
Psychologists 		19-4	63
School clerks 		9-3.2	38
School nurses		26-1	76
Social workers 		20-3	64
Special education 		21-1.2	65
Speech pathology teachers		21-5.1	67
Teaching positions		42-3	137
Teacher assistants		9-5.2, 9-6.2	41,43
TESL		44-37	153
Truant officers 		9-6.2	43
Vision screening/Audiometric technicians		9-4.2, 9-6.2	40, 43
VACATION		43	142-145
Death benefit 		43-1.1	144
Displaced career service employees		43-1.2	144
Displaced teachers		43-1.2	144
Formula for pay 1999-2000		43-1 a	143
2000-2001 		43-1 b	143
2001-2002		43-1 c	144
2002-2003		43-1 d	144
If absent when checks are issued		43-1	142
Playground teachers		17-6	58
Responsibility to file written application.	43-1.2	144
While on leave		43-1	142
VANDALISM		44-9.1	147
VISION SCREENING TECHNICIANS See “CAREER SERVICE: Vision screening/Audiometric technicians” VISITATIONS Efficiency ratings		39-4	123
Transfer		42-2	135
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION Also see “PRACTICAL ARTS AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION” Blind students		21-6.1	68
Service providers part-time stipend		Appendix A36	263
WAIVERS		Appendix C	265
WASHROOMS 		44-4	146
WORK ASSIGNMENTS Driver education 		11-1	50
Library assistants 		9-2.1	37
WORK YEAR Beyond regular school year		44-24	148
See “HOURS” WORKERS’COMPENSATION 		32-5	95
Coordination of benefits		32-5	95
311
SUBJECT
ARTICLE
PAGE
Leave is not a break in service	33-12 School-related assaults 	 44-8 WORKING CONDITIONS	 44-9 WORKSHOPS See “MEETINGS” YEAR-ROUND SCHOOLS	 14	103 146 147 53
Please note:
This index has been prepared by Chicago Teachers Union. An omission from the index does not mean the item is not in the contract.
Suggestions for corrections and improvements in the index should be sent, in writing, to:
Ms. Pamelyn Massarsky
Recording Secretary
Chicago Teachers Union
222 Merchandise Mart Plaza, Suite 400
Chicago, Illinois 60654-1016
312
CHICAGO SCHOOL REFORM BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Gery Chico ............................ President
Trustees
Norman R. Bobins Tariq Butt Sharon Gist Gilliam Gene R. Saffold
Paul G. Valias..............Chief	Executive Officer
Cozette Buckney.............Chief	Education Officer
638