Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: New Haven Board of Education and New Haven Federation of Teachers, American Federation of Teachers (AFT), AFL-CIO, Local 933 (2003)
K#: 830226
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu



3^0
AGREEMENT .
between
THE NEW HAVEN BOARD OF EDUCATION
and
THE NEW HAVEN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS, LOCAL 933, AFT, AFL-CIO
July 1, 2003 - June 30, 2006
AGREEMENT between THE NEW HAVEN BOARD OF EDUCATION
and
THE NEW HAVEN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS, LOCAL 933, AFT, AFL-CIO
July 1,2003 - June 30, 2006

I
TABLE OF CONTENTS
■
I
PAGE
PREAMBLE..........................................1
ARTICLE I
RECOGNITION, RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES................................1
SECTION 1. Exclusive Bargaining Representative.1
SECTIONS 2-4..............................1-2
SECTION 5. Non-discrimination.............2
SECTIONS 6-8..............................2-3
ARTICLE II GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS....................3
SECTION 1.	Fair Disciplinary Policy......3
SECTION 2.	School Year....................3
SECTION 3.	Work Day.......................4
SECTION 4.	Lunch Periods..................4
SECTION 5.	Class Size.....................5
SECTION 6.	Teaching Load..................6
SECTION 7.	Preparation Periods............6
SECTION 8.	After School Meetings..........7
SECTION 9.	School Visitors................7
SECTION 10.	Teacher’s Notice by Superintendent............................7
SECTION 11.	Health and Safety.............8
SECTION 12.	Non-teaching Duties...........8-9
SECTION 13.	Early Dismissal...............9
SECTION 14.	Personal Property.............9
SECTION 15.	Materials.....................9
SECTION 16.	Student Behavior..............9
ARTICLE III GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE..........................10
SECTION 1.	Definition.....................10
SECTION 2.	Procedures.....................10-11
SECTION 3.	General Provisions.............12
ARTICLE IV	- CONSULTATION.........................12-13
ARTICLE V FEDERATION RIGHTS.................................13
SECTION 1.	Use of School Facilities......13
SECTION 2.	Release Time...................13-14
SECTION 3.	General Provisions...........14-15
SECTION 4.	Dues, Services Fees and Other Deductions........................15-16
SECTION 5.	Materials and Information......16
ARTICLE VI ABSENCES AND LEAVES OF ABSENCES.................16
SECTION 1.	Sick Leave...................16-17
SECTION 2.	Military Leave...............18
SECTION 3.	Maternity Leave..............18-20
SECTION 4.	Sabbatical Leave............20-21
SECTION 5.	Federation Leave ............21-22
SECTION 6.	Miscellaneous Leaves.........22-23
SECTION 7.	General Provisions...........23
SECTION 8.	Court Appearances and Conventions.............................23
ARTICLE VII TRANSFERS AND PROMOTIONS....................23
SECTION 1.	Voluntary Transfers..........23-24
SECTION 2.	Involuntary Transfers........24
SECTION 3.	Promotions...................24-26
SECTION 4.	Improved Process for Intra-School Assignment.................26-27
ARTICLE VIII PERSONNEL FILES AND EVALUATIONS.............27
SECTION 1.	Personnel Files..............T1
SECTION 2.	Evaluations..................28
ARTICLE IX STAFF DEVELOPMENT..........................28-29
ARTICLE X TEACHER FACILITIES..........................29
ARTICLE XI TEACHER PROTECTION..........................30
SECTION 1.	Negligence...................30
SECTION 2.	Assault......................30-31
ARTICLE XII SALARIES...................................31
SECTIONS 1-9............................31-32
SECTION 10..............................33
SECTION 11..............................Pay for Travel...............33
SECTION 12..............................Payroll Procedure............33
SECTION 13..............................Detention Coverage...........33
SECTION 14..............................Home Bound Compensation......34
SECTION 15,.............................Summer School................34-35
SECTION 16..............................Adult Education..............35
SECTION 17..............................Club Advisors................35-36
ARTICLE XIII BENEFIT PROGRAMS...........................36-40
ARTICLE XIV
CONFORMITY TO LAW AND SAVINGS CLAUSE........40

ARTICLE XV LAYOFFS.....................................40-41
ARTICLE XVI MISCELLANEOUS...............................41
SECTION 1.	Teacher Directory...........41
SECTION 2.	Sick Leave Statement........42
SECTION 3.	Class Interruption..........42
SECTION 4.	Media Services..............42
SECTION 5.	Teachers Responsibility.....42
SECTION 6.	Complete agreement..........42
SECTION 7.	Individual Contracts........42
SECTION 8.	Complience to Law...........42
SECTION 9.	Teacher.....................42
SECTION 10.	Written Notes..............42
SECTION 11.	Pupil Grades...............42-43
SECTION 12.	Teaching Principal.........43
SECTION 13.	Administrative Intern......43
SECTION 14.	Letters of Recommendation..43
SECTION 15.	Specialists................44
SECTION 16.	Cancellation of Schools....44
SECTION 17.	Substitution...............44
SECTION 18.	Residual Rights............44
SECTION 19.	Part-time Teachers.........44
SECTION 20.	Job Sharing................45
ARTICLE XVII COOPERATIVE, EDUCATIONAL PLANNING...........45-46
ARTICLE XVIII AMENDMENT TO THIS AGREEMENT.................46
ARTICLE XIX DURATION....................................46
APPENDIX A SALARY SCHEULES.............................47
July 1, 2003 - June 30, 2004............47
July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005............48
July 1, 2005 - June 30, 2006............49
APPENDIX B COACHES SALARY SCHEDULE ....................50-52
APPENDIX C HYDE PROJECT AGREEMENT......................53-56
APPENDIX D SOUND SCHOOL AGREEMENT......................57-59
APPENDIX E HEALTH BENEFITS MATRIX
PREAMBLE
SECTION 1.	This Agreement is made and entered into as of this first day of July, 2003, by and between the New Haven Board of Education (hereinafter referred to as the Board) and the New Haven Federation of Teachers, Local 933, American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as the Federation).
SECTION 2.	The parties hereto recognize the benefits available to each hereunder, and the procedures and avenues of communication established herein as a result of these good faith negotiations between them; it being the aim of both the parties here to establish methods by which the public educational system of the City of New Haven may continue to improve so as to meet the needs of the total community. In furtherance of that aim, the parties hereto accept the provisions of this Agreement as their collective and individual commitment actively, cooperatively and in good faith to honor, support and seek to fulfill the obligations, commitments and representations made herein, to the best of their respective abilities for the duration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE!
RECOGNITION, RIGHTSAND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES
SECTION 1.	Exclusive Bargaining Representative
Pursuant to Section 10-153 of the Connecticut General Statutes, the Board hereby recognizes the Federation as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for all employees employed by the Board in positions requiring a teaching or special services certificate (which employees shall hereinafter be referred to individually or collectively as “teacher” or “teachers,” [respectively], except temporary substitutes). Such recognition is granted in accordance with the Certification of Results of an election held on November 21, 1967, executed by the Supervising Arbitrator, Walter Oberter, the result of which election are specified as “Election #1 (teachers).” Employees occupying positions requiring an administrative or supervisory certificate (which employees shall hereinafter be referred to individually or collectively as “administrator” or administrators,” respectively) shall be excluded from the bargaining unit referred to herein. A teacher engaged in teaching in the adult education or summer school program in a field in which he holds a teaching certificate issued by the State Department of Education shall be represented by the Federation in the same manner and to the same degree as any other teacher, as defined herein.
SECTION 2.	The Federation agrees to represent equally all members of the above defined unit.
1

SECTION 3.	Nothing in this Agreement shall in any way limit or contravene the authority of the Board as provided in the General Statutes of Connecticut and the Charter of the City of New Haven. The Board shall not, however, exercise any of its authority specified above so as to contravene a specific provision of this Agreement. The Board will also not make any change in any policy, rule or regulation affecting salaries or other conditions of employment of teachers without prior consultation or discussion with the Federation. The Federation may challenge the authority of the Board to make a change in a policy, rule or regulation, by processing a grievance in accordance with the Grievance Procedure hereof.
SECTION 4.	Any policy, rule or regulation of the Board, adopted prior to the effective date of this Agreement, which is in conflict with a specific provision or provisions of this Agreement, shall as of the effective date of this Agreement, be superseded and replaced by the applicable provision or provisions of this Agreement with which it is in conflict. No provision of this Agreement shall be construed or interpreted so as to apply retroactively.
SECTION 5.	Non-discrimination
The parties agree to continue to follow the policy of not discriminating against any employee on the basis of his/her race, color, religious creed, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, or present or past history of mental disorder, mental retardation, learning disability or physical disability, including, but not limited to, blindness, or membership or partnership in or associated with the activities of any employee organization or political party, or on account of membership in a protected classification under Connecticut or federal equal employment opportunity statutes as they currently exist or as they may be amended from time to time.
SECTION 6.	Despite references herein to the Board or the Federation as such, each reserves the right to act hereunder by committee or by designated representative (professional or lay, whether or not a member). Each party will provide to the other satisfactory evidence of authority so to act.
SECTION 7.	During the term of this Agreement no member of the bargaining unit or representative of the Federation shall engage in or participate in any refusal to work, mass resignation, slowdown or strike. Engaging in or participating in such activity shall constitute just cause for discipline, including suspension and discharge. Any individual discharged or otherwise disciplined for engaging or participating in such activity shall be entitled to arbitration in accordance with the provisions set forth in Article III hereof but only on the issue of whether he engaged in or participated in such activity, and the Arbitrators authority shall be so limited.
SECTION 8.	Nothing contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding, bargaining unit members shall be entitled to Family and Medical Leave as provided for by state and/or Federal family and medical leave laws, as applicable. Leaves provided for in this Agreement shall be included in and shall not be in addition to the period(s) of family and medical leave required by such laws.
ARTICLE....II
GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS
SECTION 1.	Fair Disciplinary Policy
(a)	No teacher shall be suspended except for just cause.
(b)	Notification of suspension shall be given to the teacher in writing with a copy to the Federation. The reason for such discharge or suspension shall be stated therein.
(c)	The teacher may, if he/she so desires, upon receipt of notification of suspension, file a grievance at the third step of the grievance procedure, provided in this Agreement. If suspension is found to be unjustified at any step of this procedure, the teacher’s full pay and benefits shall be restored for the full period of his/her suspension.
SECTION 2.	School Year
(a)	The work year of all teachers covered by this Agreement shall commence no earlier than the Tuesday after Labor Day and shall terminate no later than June 30 annually if possible under State Law. During such period there shall be scheduled no more than one hundred eighty-two (182) regular teaching days where pupil attendance is required. Similarly, during such period, teachers shall be required to report one day prior to the pupils’ first school day and shall be required to be in attendance one day after the last scheduled day for pupil attendance but in no event more than one hundred eighty-six (186) scheduled work days during such period. Teachers who were not employed by the Board during the previous school year may, for orientation and briefing purposes, be required to report four (4) days prior to the date upon which all other teachers are required to report. However, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may schedule two non-teaching work days contiguous to the beginning or end of the work year, provided the total length of the work year, including these two days, shall not exceed the overall one hundred eighty-six (186) work day limit.
2
3
11
■■■
(b)	The following days shall not be scheduled school days:
(1)	Rosh Hashanah (first two days)
(2)	Yom Kippur
(3)	Columbus Day
(4)	Veteran’s Day
(5)	Thanksgiving Day and the day following
(6)	Christmas Eve
(7)	Christmas Day
(8)	New Year’s Day
(9)	Three Kings Day
(10)	Martin Luther King’s Birthday
(11)	Lincoln’s Birthday
(12)	Washington’s Birthday
(13)	Good Friday
(14)	Memorial Day
(c)	A yearly calendar shall be discussed with the Federa tion prior to June 1 annually and published.
SECTION 3.	Work Day
(a)	Classroom teachers and other teachers on the classroom teacher salary schedule shall not be required to report earlier than fifteen (15) minutes before the start of their day’s assignment, except in the event of an emergency or unusual circumstance. Teachers may leave the building soon after dismissal providing such teacher has not scheduled a parent and/or student conference or is not scheduled for a faculty meeting or a discussion with the Principal or Department Head. Effective July 1, 1995 through June 30, 1999, the work day for all elementary and middle school teachers shall be the same length as the work day for said teachers in effect during the 1992-1993 school year. The length of the workday shall not be changed during the life of this Agreement without the mutual consent of the parties.
(b)	The Board may reorganize the schedule of hours so as to fit the requirements of the System, but in so doing the provisions of Section (a) hereof shall be followed. Any such changes in the hourly schedule shall only be after notice to and discussion with the Federation in accordance with the provisions herein. It is understood that advanced classes and special programs (e.g., preschool) may be scheduled at hours different from those for regular classes and programs.
SECTION 4.	Lunch Periods
(a)	Middle and Senior High School teachers shall be provided a duty free lunch period not less than that provided for their students, but in no event less than thirty (30) minutes. Elementary School teachers shall be given a lunch period consistent with the daily schedule effective in each particular
4
school but such teachers must be prepared to receive students in their classroom at the afternoon session. In the event the Board reduces the length of the lunch period at any particular school, it shall also adjust the end of the teachers’ school day at that school by an equal amount of time.
(b)	Lunch duty at the Elementary Schools shall be on a voluntary basis and teachers who voluntarily take this duty shall be paid in accordance with present practice. If several teachers volunteer, the duty will be rotated around them. Teachers may leave the school building during their lunch periods.
SECTION 5. Class Size
(a)	No class from Grades K-2 shall have more than twenty-six (26) pupils and no class from Grades 3-12 shall have more than twenty-seven (27) pupils, provided that additional numbers may be assigned to K-2 classes, if additional assistance is provided, but in no case in excess of average past practice. The Board shall make a reasonable effort to lower Grades K-2 class size to no more than twenty-five (25) pupils and Grades 3-12 class size to no more than twenty-six (26) pupils.
(b)	Class size may exceed the stated maximum in special	j
or experimental teaching situations (it is understood that special	;
teaching situations would include chorale, band, etc.) physical education classes shall not exceed 40 pupils.	j
(c)	The ratio of at least one (1) teacher for every thirty (30) pupils shall be maintained and exceptions shall be made where special teaching problems prevail.	j
(d)	Preference shall be given in the reduction of class size where it is determined by the Board and Federation that there is a high ratio of disadvantaged or disruptive students, as those	j
students are identified by school records and school system	|
standards.	|
I
(e)	Regardless of class size, no teacher in the departmen-	[
talized program shall be assigned more than 125 students. This	|
section, however, shall not require the establishment of a class of fewer than 15 pupils.
(f)	Where a particular number of student stations are provided, such as in laboratories, tech ed, computer lab, art rooms, typing rooms, music rooms and similar situations, the number of students assigned shall not exceed the number of student stations already provided.
(g)	Special Education classes shall be administered ac-	5
cording to Federal and State Laws. In addition, the Board agrees to promptly make every reasonable and responsible effort to	i
5	!

maintain Special Education classes at the following levels:
(1) 10 full time students 1 teacher 1 aide (2) 15 part time students 1 teacher 1 aide
(h)	Counselors shall not be assigned more than the current student load assigned to counselors of the same type and level during 1986-1987.
(i)	Elementary music teachers shall not be assigned a teaching load greater than that in effect for elementary music teachers during 1986-87.
SECTION 6.	Teaching Load
(a)	Teachers in departmentalized programs shall not generally be required to teach more than two subjects not to make more than two teaching preparations daily. A subject is herein intended to mean a distinct course of study within a broad classification. For example, Algebra, Trigonometry and Geometry in the field of Mathematics shall be deemed separate subjects. However, this shall in no way limit the institution of new teaching methods. Teachers in departmentalized programs who are assigned more than two subjects or more than two preparations daily shall be given two additional preparation periods per week and such teachers shall be given preference in relief of homeroom assignments. Teachers with four (4) or more preparations per week shall be relieved from all collateral assignment. This section shall not apply in experimental teaching situations, including team teaching, contemporary issues, and general lectures. In these expected areas, assignments inconsistent with the foregoing criteria will be discussed with the Federation.
(b)	No teacher shall teach in violation of the certification regulations of the State.
(c)	Departmentalized teachers shall be scheduled for no more than five (5) teaching periods per day.
(d)	Teachers assigned to non-compensated extracurricular activities during the school hours shall have such assignment considered as a teaching period
SECTION 7.	Preparation Periods
(a)	All teachers shall have a daily preparation period, except when the format of their schedule (curriculum) requires scheduling which prohibits daily preparation periods. In such cases, at least five (5) preparation periods shall be scheduled for such teacher per week. Teachers shall not be assigned to any other duties during their preparation periods.
(b)	All elementary teachers shall be provided with a minimum of five (5) preparation periods per week for a total of
one hundred fifty (150) minutes per week. In order to attain this goal, when scheduled by the Superintendent, or his/her designee, the regularly assigned teacher may be absent from the classroom to prepare during the period when regularly assigned special teachers in art, music and physical education are present, providing instruction to the pupils to whom the regularly assigned teacher is normally assigned and providing such absence from the classroom is agreeable to the principal.
(c)	Teachers of split grades must be consulted prior to the scheduling of preparation periods and the results of such consultation will be considered in determining schedules.
SECTION 8.	After School Meetings
(a)	With the aim of continuing to improve communications and to utilize fully the professional resources of the teaching profession, teachers are required to attend three (3) parent conferences per year to be held after each of the first three report cards, and are encouraged to attend PTA and other parent group meetings.
(b)	Teachers may be required to attend not more than three (3) faculty meetings per month, of no more than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours in duration each. Such meetings will be held on Monday, shall be called by an administrator and shall commence immediately upon school dismissal. If Monday is a holiday, the faculty meeting may be scheduled on Tuesday of the same week.
SECTION 9.	School Visitors
(a)	The Board and the Federation agree that parents or guardians of students attending the school are not only welcome to the New Haven public schools but also shall be encouraged to visit such schools. However, such visits should be conducted in such a way so as not to interrupt the school educational program.
(b)	The procedure for visits of parents, guardians and/or others in a particular school shall be established by the Area Director of Administration-Supervision and the Principal, in accordance with the Superintendent’s general policy.
SECTION 10.	Teacher’s Notice by Superintendent
(a)	Any teacher requested to meet with the Superintendent or his/her designee regarding a disciplinary proceeding shall be given one (1) day’s notice of the meeting, be informed in writing of the reason(s) for which his/her presence is requested, and of his/her option to be accompanied by a representative of the Federation. If an interview is not held in accordance with these conditions, no part of it will be put in the teacher’s file or used in proceedings against him/her.
6
7

(b)	Any complaints regarding a teacher made to the administration by any parent, student or other teacher or an administrator will be promptly called to such teacher’s attention. The administration shall inform the teacher of the name of the complainant. The teacher shall have the opportunity to answer such complaint.
(c)	No member of the Board of Education or the Administration shall orally present or discuss at any public meeting of the Board of Education any compldint of adverse criticism of any teacher until after such adverse criticism or complaint has been discussed with the teacher/or representative designated by the Federation.
SECTION 11.	Health and Safety
(a)	The Board agrees to provide for adequate facilities and equipment necessary to maintain a high standard of health and safety.
(b)	School Administrators will arrange for the repair of malfunctioning equipment both in the educational process and in the maintenance of plant as soon as possible when reported by teachers.
SECTION 12.	Non-teaching Duties
(a)	It is agreed that the teacher’s primary responsibility is to teach and to otherwise supervise the children he/she teaches. Therefore, clerical assistance will be provided for teachers when it is necessary and when the teacher indicates such need at least one (1) day prior to such time assistance is needed.
(b)	Elementary school teachers shall not be required to perform playground duty before or after school or during the lunch recess, bus duty, school crossing duty or lunch duty.
(c)	The practice of returning insurance monies by direct mail shall be instituted immediately. However, where a child returns the envelope to the teacher, it shall be the responsibility of that teacher to make arrangements within his/her classroom for collection of same.
(d)	Teachers shall be responsible for the collection of milk and lunch money. Where the teacher chooses not to collect same, he/she shall make arrangements for the collection of these monies within the classroom.
(e)	Teachers shall not be required to correct standardized tests.
(f)	The definition of the above duties as “non-teaching duties” shall not in any way be deemed not to require teachers,
8
as part of their regular assignments, to perform normal disciplinary and supervisory functions in whatever portion of the school buildings that such is required. Such discipline and supervision outside the classroom shall be exercised in a manner consistent with administrative policy.
(g)	While a teacher’s primary responsibility is to teach, he/she is also required to discipline the pupils of the school fairly and equitably.
(h)	Assignment of non-teaching duties shall be equitably distributed among teachers in each school. In accordance with the foregoing, building principals shall consider written teacher requests concerning such assignments, provided the request is made before the end of the preceding school year.
SECTION 13.	Early Dismissal
Classes will be dismissed by 1:00 p.m. on the days the following recesses commence: Thanksgiving, Christmas and the February, April and June vacations.
SECTION 14.	Personal Property
The Board is not responsible for the loss of personal property due to negligence on the part of the employee. Teachers will be equitably compensated for damage to personal property resulting from the performance of duties within the scope of their employment.
SECTION 15.	Materials
(a)	Each teacher will be provided with the necessary materials, supplies and books with which to adequately function in the classroom. The Board will make every reasonable effort to provide at least one book per pupil per subject or its instructional equivalent.
(b)	Supply lists will be made available for reference by teachers when received by the building principal. Typically, that is expected to occur by May of each school year.
SECTION 16.	Student Behavior
(a)	The schools are established for the benefit of all students. The educational purpose of the schools is accomplished best in a climate of student behavior that is socially acceptable and conducive to the learning and teaching process. Behavior that disrupts this process or that infringes upon the rights of other individuals will not be tolerated.
(b)	The Board reaffirms its support of the administrative and teaching staff in taking all steps lawful and necessary to enforce and implement all Board policies and regulations
9

pertaining to control of student behavior. Important among these policies are those in the areas of conduct, suspensions, expulsions, and general learning climate as outlined in the Statement of Students’ Rights and Responsibilities. The teachers will at all times follow and enforce the Directives of the Superintendent and/or policies of the Board regarding these matters.
ARTICLELin
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The prompt, informal and confidential adjustment and settlement of grievances is encouraged and therefore, the following procedure to accomplish these purposes is hereby established:
SECTION 1.	Definition
(a)	A grievance shall mean a complaint (1) by a teacher (hereinafter called “grievant”) that there has been a violation, misinterpretation or misapplication of a provision of this Agreement, or of an established policy or practice, (2) or that there has been disparate treatment in the administration of established policies or practices of the Board.
(b)	As used in this Article, the term “grievant” shall mean (1) an individual grievant, (2) a group of grievants having the same grievance, (3) the Federation or the Board, respectively, when either files a grievance.
SECTION 2.	Procedures
STEP 1. A teacher and a Federation representative (if the teacher so desires) shall first discuss the problem with the school official serving as the teacher’s immediate administrative superior.
STEP 2. If the matter is not satisfactorily adjusted within two calendar days* after the last discussion, the teacher, with the assistance of a Federation representative, shall submit a request in writing within six (6) calendar days to such teacher’s immediate administrative superior, for a satisfactory adjustment. Such written grievance must be filed within thirty (30) calendar days following the act or circumstances giving rise to the grievance. Such immediate superior may request a meeting with the teacher and a Federation representative prior to making his/her decision, but in any event must render his/her decision in writing, with copies to the teacher and the Federation within six (6) calendar days of the written submission to him/her by the teacher.
*In calculating the number of days, school vacations including the summer will be excluded.
STEP 3. Failing satisfactory settlement within such time limit the grievant may, with the assistance of the Federation
10
representative, within six (6) calendar days after receipt of the written decision by his/her superior, appeal in writing to the Superintendent and such writing shall set forth specifically the basis of the grievance. The Superintendent or his/her representative shall meet with the teacher and a Federation representative within six (6) calendar days of receipt by him/her of such appeal, and shall give his/her decision in writing to the teacher and the Federation within twelve (12) calendar days of such meeting. Such decision shall include the specific justification for a denial of the grievance.
STEP 4. If the grievance remains unresolved after STEP 3, the Federation, the grievant and the Superintendent or his/her representative shall meet with a neutral party who shall act in the capacity of a mediator in an effort to resolve the grievance. This step will be used only on a case by case basis when the parties mutually so agree. All discussion at this step will be inadmissible in arbitration.
STEP 5. Arbitration
(a)	In the event a grievance shall not have been settled under the procedures above, the grievant may proceed directly to arbitration, which shall be binding, subject to the limitation of the statute.
(b)	Notice of intention to request submission to arbitration must be in writing addressed to the Superintendent of Schools, and submission to American Arbitration Association must be made not later than ten (10) calendar days following the decision at Step or the expiration of the time limits for making such decision, whichever shall first occur. A copy of such notice of intention to submit to arbitration shall be sent to the Superintendent by Registered Mail, return receipt requested.
(c)	The arbitrator shall hear and decide only one grievance in each case. He/she shall be bound by and must comply with all terms of this Agreement. He/she shall have no power to add to, delete from, or modify in any way, any of the provisions of this Agreement. He/she shall have the power to make appropriate compensatory awards. The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding upon both parties and all teachers during the life of this Agreement, except that such decision shall not usurp the functions or powers of the Board of Education as provided by statute. Fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by both parties.
The Board will take quick action on solving grievances which concern irremediable situations. The Board will agree to consider with the Federation the use of the new expedited arbitration procedure of the American Arbitration Association as each case arises.	.

SECTION 3.	General Provisions
(a)	Any grievance not initiated and/or appealed in accordance with the time limits specified herein shall be deemed waived by the grievant.
(b)	Failure at any step of this procedure to communicate a decision within the specified time limits shall permit the grievant to proceed promptly to the next step. The time limits specified at any step may be extended in any particular instance by agreement between the Superintendent or his/her designee and the Federation.
(c)	Meetings held under this procedure shall generally be conducted on non-school time at a place which will afford a fair and reasonable opportunity for all persons proper to be present. Persons proper to be present for the purpose of this Article are defined as the grievant, the appropriate Federation and Board representatives and witnesses. Federation and Board counsel shall be permitted at Step 4. If, at the option of the Board, hearings are held during school hours, persons proper to be present shall be excused without loss of pay.
(d)	A grievance arising from the action of an official above the rank of principal will first be discussed with that official and if not resolved may be submitted to the Superintendent or his/her designee and processed in accordance with Step 3 above.
(e)	The Federation shall have the right to appeal from the disposition of a grievance of any teacher or group of teachers at any step of this procedure in its own behalf.
(f)	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as compelling the Federation to submit a grievance to arbitration.
(g)	No reprisals of any kind shall be taken by either party or by any member of the administration against any participants in the grievance procedure by reason of such participation.
(h)	The Superintendent and/or the Board shall have the right to file a grievance in writing with the Federation and such grievance shall thereafter be processed in accordance with Step 3 and the following steps of the grievance procedure. In the event a grievance filed by the Superintendent and/or the Board is submitted to arbitration, the Board shall pay the arbitrator’s fees for such arbitration.
ARTICLED CONSULTATION
SECTION 1.	In order to promote better communica-
12
tions between the administration and the representatives of the Federation, the parties will meet at least once a month during the school year on matters of education policy and development, on any matters which are not covered by the Agreement and on administration of the Agreement. Such consultation shall generally be attended only by employees of the Board of Education. However, if a particular matter to be discussed requires, the expertise of a non-employee, either party may request that such person be permitted to attend the meeting. The parties shall exchange agenda indicating the matters they wish to discuss, including the names and qualifications of non-employees they wish to have in attendance, no later than seven (7) days prior to the scheduled meeting date.
SECTION 2.	The principal or other head of each school or his/her representatives and the building steward’s committee from the school shall consult at least once a month during the school year on matters of school policy and on the implementation of the Agreement. During September of each year, this principal and steward shall establish a regular meeting schedule.
ARTICLED
FEDERATION RIGHTS
SECTION 1.	Use of School Facilities
(a)	One (1) bulletin board in each school shall be reserved for the exclusive use of the Federation for the posting of official Federation notices or announcements. Copies of any notice to be posted shall be submitted to the Principal.
(b)	The Federation may call meetings in each school before or after school or during the lunch hour whenever necessary, providing such meetings do not conflict with the other scheduled activities or programs.
(c)	The Federation shall have the right to place material in the mail boxes of teachers and other professional employees. Placement will be made by the authorized representative of the Federation or his/her designee and such representative may use the public address system for Federation announcements prior to and at the end of each teaching day.
(d)	The Federation President shall have access to a telephone in the School Building which he/she shall use only during his/her non-teaching hours.
SECTION 2.	Release Time
(a)	The New Haven Federation will, during the tenure of the N.H.F.T. as bargaining representative, be permitted to select one officer to teach a reduced teaching load. Such officer shall teach the equivalent of no more than ten (10) teaching periods
13

per week which shall be scheduled during the morning. In the event the selected officer does not teach at a school that is departmentalized, adjustment will be made between the Superintendent and the Federation. Such officer granted such released time shall continue to accrue seniority for salary increments and all other purposes in the same manner as if he/she continued in his/her former capacity.
(b)	Each steward will be given access to a telephone.
(c)	In the event any building steward or Federation officer is the least senior staff member in his/her school, he/she shall instead be considered the second least senior staff member for	|
purposes of involuntary transfer of the building or layoff.	'
SECTION 3.	General Provisions
(a)	The Board shall make available to the Federation information, statistics and records which the Federation and the Board agree are relevant to negotiations and necessary to the proper enforcement of this Agreement.
(b)	If the Superintendent or the Federation requests a meeting to discuss matters of educational policy and development as well as matters relating to the implementation of this Agreement, such a meeting shall be scheduled at a time mutually convenient to both parties.
(c)	If the Principal of a school or the designated Federation representative for that school requests a meeting to discuss matters of school operation and questions relating to the implementation of this Agreement, such a meeting shall be scheduled i at a time mutually convenient to both parties. School operations and policies shall be consistent with this Agreement. The Federation shall inform the Principal of the name of its representatives for that school in writing.
(d)	The Board shall permit the President of the Federation or his/her designated representative to visit the schools to investigate working conditions, teacher complaints or problems, or for any other purpose relating to the terms and conditions of i this Agreement. Upon the representative’s arrival, he/she shall	i
notify the General Office of his/her presence. If conferences with teachers are necessary, they shall be scheduled so as not to disrupt the teacher’s class assignment.
)
(e)	Whenever the parties mutually agree to schedule meetings during the workday, the teachers required to attend shall suffer no loss of pay.
(f)	The board will distribute a copy of the Board agenda of the Board’s public meetings to the Federation by the Friday prior to such public meeting by (1) mail or by (2) making such agenda otherwise available. The Federation shall have an op
14
portunity to speak on any item on such agenda at such public meeting providing its written notice indicating its desire to speak is delivered to the Superintendent’s office by Monday noon prior to such public meeting.
(g)	The Federation will be given time for announcements during faculty meetings.
SECTION 4.	Dues, Services Fees and Other Deductions
(a)	All bargaining unit employees shall, as a condition of continued employment join the New Haven Federation of Teachers (NHFT) or pay to the NHFT a service representation fee equal to the amount uniformly required of NHFT service representation fee payers to underwrite the costs of collective bargaining, contract administration and grievance adjustment. The Board agrees to deduct dues or service representation fees from the salaries of members of the bargaining unit as authorized by said members. Deductions are to be made from the second of each monthly check from September to June. If dues are not deducted because of clerical error, etc., the Federation will notify the Board and the proper deductions will be made from the next month’s check. Said dues and service representation fees are to be determined for each bargaining unit member and specified in dollars by the Federation and notification sent to the Board by August 15 for implementation by September 1, and by January 15 for implementation by February 1.
(b)	Income Protection Plan - If a teacher desires to have deductions made for the Teachers of Connecticut Group Income Protection Plan, he/she shall authorize deductions therefore in writing and such authorization shall be honored by the Controller’s office.
(c)	Upon payment of any deduction by the Controller to any organization or for any purpose specified above, such payment shall release the controller, the City of New Haven and the Board of Education and the officers and agents thereof from all liabilities.
(d)	If a teacher who is absent on account of sickness, leave of absence, or for any other reasons has no earnings due him/her for the month, no deductions will be made for that teacher for that month. The Federation will arrange collection of dues for that month directly with the teacher.
(e)	When a teacher does not have sufficient money due him/her after deductions have been made for pension, social security, garnishments or any other deductions authorized by the teacher or required by law, the Federation dues for that month will be collected by the Federation directly from the teacher.
(f)	The New Haven Federation of Teachers shall hold the Board and the City harmless against any and all claims,
15
........................"....................-
demands, liabilities, lawsuits, counsel fees, or other costs which may arise out of, or be by reason of, actions taken against the Board as a result of administration of the provisions of this section.
(g)	Deductions may likewise be made upon proper authorization by the teacher for the teacher’s credit union.
(h)	Deductions will be made upon proper authorization by the teacher, with union dues and transmitted to the union for forwarding to the Federation C.O.P.E. Fund.
SECTION 5.	Materials and Information
(a)	The Board agrees to give the Federation copies of the collective bargaining agreement for each member of the bargaining unit and a reasonable number for its own use. The Board will also give to the Federation copies of applicable insurance contracts for distribution to each covered teacher. The Board will provide copies of the collective bargaining agreement and copies of applicable insurance contracts directly to new hires.
(b)	Copies of all new policies approved by the Board of Education and all minutes of Board meetings, including executive sessions, shall be sent to the Federation office.
ARTICLE VI
ABSENCES AND LEAVES OF ABSENCES
SECTION 1. Sick Leave
Sick leave is to be used only for the purposes of compensating a teacher who is unable to attend his/her regular scheduled classes because of bona fide illness which requires him/her to stay home.
(a)	So long as the teacher remains in the continuous service of the Board, he/she shall be entitled to sick leave with full pay up to (15) working days for each year of employment, cumulative from year to year, up to a maximum of two hundred fifteen (215) working days.
(b)	The Board and/or the Superintendent or his/her designated representative may request a doctor’s certificate to be presented by any teacher attesting to illness sufficient to keep the !	teacher from work for five (5) consecutive days or more. If there
exists any reasonable doubt concerning the teacher’s illness, the Board or the Superintendent or his/her designee may require such teacher to submit to an examination by an independent physician acceptable to the teacher and the Board at the Board’s expense.
(c)	Upon retirement (pursuant to the State Teachers’ Retirement Fund) or death (but not upon resignation), a teacher will
16
be paid for all accumulated sick days up to, but not to exceed, sixty-four (64) days. Such pay for each day for which payment is going to be made shall be on a per diem basis, pursuant to the salary agreement then in effect between the teacher and the Board.
(d)	Membership in the sick leave bank is voluntary on the part of employees after tenure is granted for four (4) years of service completed in the New Haven School System. Each participating employee contributes one (1) day of sick leave per year.
(1)	The Board of Education will cooperate in the establishment of a sick bank on a voluntary basis.
(2)	Each employee enrolling in the bank will donate one
(1) day of his/her sick leave to the bank each year until the bank is built up to a maximum of approximately 1500 days. No more days will be added to this maximum until the bank is depleted to approximately 750 days. The bank will be built up to approximately 1500 again and the process repeated.
(3)	Additions will be made to the bank in September or October of each school year according to the above limitations.
(4)	A person withdrawing from membership in the bank will not be able to withdraw the contributed days.
(5)	Withdrawals will be made from the bank according to the following schedule:
(i)	0-4 years, inclusive, a person is not eligible.
(ii)	After the beginning of the 5th year through the 6th year a person must be sick 55 consecutive days before he/she can draw on the bank.
(iii)	After the beginning of the 7th year a person must be out forty (40) consecutive days before he/she can withdraw.
'	(6) A person will not be able to withdraw days from the
bank until his/her own sick leave is depleted.
(7)	Persons withdrawing sick leave days from the bank will not have to replace these days except as a regular contributing member to the bank.
(8)	Maximum withdrawal per occurrence is 75 days.
(9)	Sick leave means the leave the teacher has taken for that year plus his/her accumulation.
17
—..................................,
SECTION 2.	Military Leave
Teachers leaving the system for the purpose of serving in the Armed Forces shall be entitled to all rights and privileges afforded them pursuant to the Selective Service Act of 1940, as amended, and the Connecticut Statues.
SECTION 3.	Maternity Leave
(a)	A maternity leave of absence shall be granted to female teachers upon application in accordance with the following procedure.
(b)	In order that arrangements may be made to staff the school properly, a teacher who becomes pregnant shall, as soon as possible, give notice to the Superintendent, such notice to be accompanied by a physician’s statement indicating the expected date of birth, as well as the teacher’s requested date for the commencement of maternity leave if such is earlier than her physician’s recommendation. Thereafter, the teacher shall provide a physician’s certificate if there is a change in her condition which would change the physician’s recommendation. The notice shall also contain the date when the teacher requests her maternity leave to terminate.
(c)	Maternity leave shall commence on the date the teacher requests or on the date that her physician states she is no longer able to work, whichever is earlier. However, the Board may require the teacher to commence said leave at an earlier date if in the opinion of the Board she is not able to satisfactorily perform her duties, in which event she will be considered disabled for purposes of this section. If the teacher commences maternity leave on a date earlier than her disability she shall subsequently supply the Board with a statement from her physician indicating when she was no longer able to work.
(d)	Maternity leave shall terminate on the date the teacher requests or on the date that her physician states that she is no longer disabled, whichever is later. A teacher returning from maternity leave shall provide the Superintendent with a physician’s certificate attesting that she is fit to resume her full duties. If the teacher returns from maternity leave after her disability terminated, she shall supply the Board with a physician’s statement indicating when she was no longer disabled.
(e)	Subject to the provision of this Section, a teacher may commence maternity leave earlier than initially requested upon giving advance notice in writing to the Superintendent, as soon as possible, but not less than two weeks prior to the changed date, and may extend said leave beyond the termination date initially requested upon four weeks’ advance notice in writing to the Superintendent. Such notice shall, in either case, be waived in the case of emergency.
18
(f)	The following conditions shall pertain during maternity leave:
(1)	Said teacher shall be eligible to receive accumulated sick leave pay during that portion of the maternity leave in which she is disabled and unable to attend school. Teachers claiming sick pay during maternity leave shall submit medical proof of such disability. If there exists any reasonable doubt concerning the teacher’s period of disability, the Board may require such teacher to submit to an examination by an independent physician acceptable to the teacher and the Board at the Board’s expense.
(2)	The Board shall maintain in effect on behalf of said teacher all insurance benefits provided for in this Agreement for the period of disability or for a period of seven (7) weeks, from the start of disability, whichever is longer. In the event a teacher works any part of a month prior to commencing maternity leave, the Board will maintain such benefits in effect for the remainder of the month. The Board will also maintain such benefits in effect for the entire month during which the teacher either commences or terminates a period of paid disability resulting from pregnancy. In the event that maternity leave terminates after the teacher has ended her period of paid disability, the Board will reinstate such benefits as of the first day of the following month except when the return date is at the beginning of the school year, and the teacher has complied with the notice requirements, in which case benefits will be reinstated as of September 1.
(3)	Periods of paid maternity leave shall be included in calculating length of service or employment. Any period of maternity leave taken under this Article shall be counted towards eligibility under the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act.
(g)	The following conditions shall pertain upon the termination of maternity leave:
(1)	If maternity leave terminates during the school year, the teacher shall be reinstated to her previous position or to an equivalent position for which she is qualified, provided such reinstatement does not require the Board to violate any other person’s rights under Section 10-151 of the General Statues or this Agreement.
(2)	Maternity leave shall not interrupt continuity of service and such teacher shall be reinstated with accumulated seniority, retirement, fringe benefits and other service credits, including credits accumulated pursuant to subsection f (iii) above. In applying this provision to service credits for pay purposes, a full year’s credit will be given for service of five (5) months or longer within a school year.
(3)	All teachers on maternity leave must apply for reinstatement within eighteen (18) months of the date the leave commenced. Failure to do so shall be considered a resignation.
19


(h)	It is understood that a maternity leave does not interrupt continuity of service for the purpose of acquiring tenure, but periods of unpaid maternity leave shall be excluded in calculating length of employment for purposes of attaining tenure.
(i)	Any teacher who has acquired tenure and is expecting a child or whose spouse is expecting a child, or who has firm plans to adopt a child in the immediate future, upon request, may be granted a long-term leave for child rearing purposes. Such leave shall begin either at the start or at the mid-point of the school year, and shall end either one-half or one full school year later. The request for such leave must be made at least thirty (30) days prior to its commencement and must specify whether the request is for leave of one-half or one full year. Such leave
I	requests shall be granted except for compelling reasons. Leave
under this paragraph may be granted to non-tenure teachers in unusual circumstances at the discretion of the Superintendent.
SECTION 4. Sabbatical Leave
Sabbatical leave will be determined by the Board on the basis of the recommendation of the Sabbatical Committee. Such recommendations will be made in accordance with the conditions stipulated herein.
(a)	No more than one per cent (1) of the bargaining unit will be granted a sabbatical leave in each school year.
(b)	Application for sabbatical leave shall be made on a form provided by the Administration. Such application must be fully completed and all the information shall be supplied if requested. The application shall, upon completion, be submitted to the Director of Staff Placement, Evaluation and Development who shall consider if such is intended to improve the New Haven School System and shall be submitted to the Sabbatical	I
Committee. The Committee will review the application and after consideration and discussion the Committee shall make recommendations, in writing (with minority report, if desired) with accompanying reasons either to approve or disapprove application for sabbatical leave and shall forward such to the Superintendent. The Superintendent, if he/she approves the recommen-
j	dation of the Committee, shall so indicate on the Committee’s
I	recommendation. If he/she disapproves the committee’s recom-
]	mendation, he/she shall so indicate and specify the reasons
J	therefore in writing. After the Superintendent has acted on each
’	application, upon which the Committee makes a recommenda-
:	tion, the Committee’s recommendation shall be forwarded to the
j	Board for final decision and disposition.
j	(c) After six (6) years of consecutive service, an applicant
j	may submit an application to the Superintendent no later than
<	December 31 of that school year for sabbatical leave for the fol-
।	lowing school year.
'	20	j
(d)	Sabbatical leaves shall be awarded no later than March 1.
(e)	Sabbatical leaves shall be reviewed and/or awarded in the following manner:
(1)	A committee composed of three (3) administrators and three (3) appointed by the Federation, plus the Superintendent or his/her designee, shall meet and consider all applications on their merit.
(2)	After consideration by the Committee, the Superintendent shall make recommendations with accompanying reasons either to approve or disapprove applications for sabbatical leaves and forward same to the Board for its action, with a copy to the applicant upon request.
(f)	Renumeration to the teacher who has been awarded a sabbatical leave shall be three-fourths (3/4) of his/her annual salary and all other benefits provided for in this Agreement shall accrue to the teacher. However, no sick leave shall accumulate during the leave.
(g)	Sabbatical leave shall be granted for not more than the period of one (1) year and no less than one full term (September-January; February-June).
(h)	Teachers on sabbatical leave will be credited with service in the system for the period of the leave.
(i)	Teachers who are awarded a sabbatical leave shall return to the system for at least one (1) school year after the termination of the leave. Teachers who leave before the completion of one such year shall be deemed unprofessional.
(j)	Sabbatical leaves are not to be granted if such are aimed at obtaining a Standard Teaching Certificate or to obtain an additional certificate in another area of teaching specialization; preference will be given to applications which fall within the applicant’s major field of specialization, or an area designated as an educational priority by the Board.
(k)	Those awarded sabbatical leave will upon their return be required to submit to the Board a detailed written report as to the scope of content of the program and application of such to the New Haven School System.
SECTION 5.	Federation Leave
(a)	A teacher in the System who is an officer of the Federation or who is appointed to the Federation staff shall upon written application filed with the Superintendent prior to July 1 of any year be granted a leave of absence to commence the following September and td terminate on September 1 of the
21

succeeding year. Such leave shall be without pay and may be renewed for one additional year, upon notice to the Superintendent by March 31 of the year of the leave.
(b)	Failure of such person to notify the Board in writing of his/her intention to return to work by March 31 of the year in which he/she is on leave, shall result in determination that such teacher has resigned from the system. Any teacher on such leave of absence shall receive credit toward annual salary increments on schedules appropriate to his/her rank.
(c)	No more than two (2) teachers in the system shall be on such leave at any one time.
SECTION 6.	Miscellaneous Leaves
(a)	Personal leave without pay may be granted by the Superintendent to meet serious personal problems.
(b)	Bereavement Leave - A leave of absence not to exceed five (5) days immediately following the date of death shall be granted to any teacher whose wife, husband, father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, child, grandparent, or grandchild dies. Such leave shall be with pay.
(1)	Time off to attend the funeral of aunts and uncles shall be granted. Such leave shall be with pay not to exceed one (1) day.
(2)	In the event of the death of a New Haven teacher, the Superintendent shall designate a delegation of teachers from the teacher’s school to attend the funeral.
(c)	Personal Leave
(1)	Teachers will be allowed two (2) days off each year with pay to be used for personal business. These days may be accumulated to four (4). The personal days provided herein are to be used to provide the teacher with necessary time off in order to fulfill bona fide personal needs, such as the performance of legal, household and other business which could not otherwise be legitimately performed during the teaching day. If it is determined that a teacher has misused his/her personal leave, such misuse shall be deemed unprofessional and such teacher shall be subject to reprimand.
(2)	Whenever practicable, the request for the personal time off will be filed with the principal at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the time requested but in any event all applications for such leave shall be in writing. Personal leaves shall not be requested as part of a vacation or taken the day prior to a vacation or holiday or the day following a vacation or holiday. In unusual circumstances where the provisions hereof cannot be met, the Superintendent may waive the conditions hereof.
22
(d)	Quarantine - There shall be no loss of salary or sick leave allowance when a teacher is subject to quarantine by order of the Health Department for reasons other than a personal illness of the teacher.
(e)	Subject to the approval of the appropriate administrator, and subject to the availability of funds, teachers may receive time off with pay for the purpose of attending teacher .and other professional conferences, or to visit other schools.
SECTION 7.	General Provisions
(a)	Teachers on leave with pay shall continue to receive all benefits provided by the Board as stated in this Agreement.
(b)	Any teacher returning to full time employment in the New Haven schools upon the termination of any leave shall be returned to his/her former assignment, if available, or to his/her previous grade assignment, if available and accumulated sick leave and seniority rights shall be retained.
(c)	Credit for time on such leave will be granted for the purpose of the salary schedule hereof, unless otherwise provided herein.
SECTION 8.	Court Appearances and Conventions
(a)	Teachers shall be allowed the necessary time off with pay to comply with subpoena for court appearance when such teacher is a party or a witness to an action. The teacher shall make every effort to arrange that the time he/she is required to spend in court shall accommodate his/her teaching schedule.
(b)	Delegate to Annual Connecticut State AFL-CIO Convention - Two (2) delegates or two (2) alternates - a maximum of two (2) people for the duration of the Convention but not to exceed three (3) days. Such time off will be paid time off.
ARTICLEVII TRANSFERS AND PROMOTIONS
SECTION 1.	Voluntary Transfers
(a)	Notice of all positions which become vacant shall be sent to each Federation building representative for posting. Interested teachers shall apply for the position within ten (10) days.
(b)	During the period from the end of the work year, notice of positions which become vacant shall be handled in the following manner: each Friday, the Personnel Office shall make available a current list of all vacancies. Teachers who come to the office or telephone shall be given all information on the list. The teacher, shall at that time, indicate whether he/she is interested in a particular vacancy.
23
(c)	In deciding upon an application for a voluntary transfer, the Board will give priority to the systemic requirements of the school system and will, thereafter, respect the following factors: certification, seniority, experience and educational background. From September 1 to November 1, the Board shall be able to fill positions from the outside as per discussions in the negotiations.
(d)	A complete seniority list shall be given to the Federation by the first payroll date in October annually.
(e)	Seniority is defined as the length of service of any teacher in the system.
(f)	Transfers shall be effective at the commencement of the following school year except where the administration must make a transfer to meet the staffing needs of the system.
SECTION 2.	Involuntary Transfers
Whenever it is necessary to transfer teachers out of a school because of changes in the school organization, such transfers will be handled as follows:
(a)	If there are teachers who wish to be transferred, the Board will give priority to the instructional requirements of the school system and thereafter will give preference on the basis of seniority, qualifications, convenience and wishes of the teacher applicant.
(b)	If teachers are to be transferred involuntarily, the Board will give priority to the instructional requirements of the school system and thereafter they will be transferred on the basis of juniority and qualifications.
(c)	The Federation will be given a listing of all transfers covered by the provisions of this Article no later than September 1.
(d)	Interschool assignment. The Superintendent will provide notification in writing to the teachers of any changes in their school assignment, program, schedules, assignment, grades, subjects or rooms for the following school year as soon as practicable, but, in any event, no later than the close of school annually. However, it is understood that where special conditions arise during the months of May through August, changes in interschool assignment may be made to fulfill the assignments of a particular situation. Such interschool assignments shall reflect the best interests of the school system.
SECTION 3.	Promotions
(a)	Promotional positions are defined as follows: positions on the administrator /supervisory level, including but not
24
limited to the positions of supervisor, assistant supervisor, director, principal, assistant principal, department head, and head counselor.
(b)	All teachers are eligible to apply for placement on the promotional eligibility list providing that (1) they submit to the office of the Director of Personnel and Labor Relations certification from the State Education Department for the position or positions at the time the appointment becomes effective; (2) they have filed their college transcripts and completed applications on forms prepared and supplied by the office of the Directors of Personnel and Labor Relations; and (3) they have submitted letters of recommendation from their current principal and current director recommending them for the position for which they have applied, or, if such letter is not submitted, a letter indicating the reasons thereof.
(c)	A teacher’s name appearing on any list as of January 1 will remain on the Eligibility List for a period of three (3) years unless the teacher chooses to withdraw it. At the end of the third year, the teacher must reapply or his/her name shall be removed from the list. Any renewal must be filed in writing on or before the commencement of the fourth year. In all cases, it shall be the responsibility of the teacher to meet the foregoing requirements.
(d)	All teachers shall be permitted to apply for placement on more than one Eligibility List.
(e)	When an available position occurs, the teacher on the current Eligibility List shall be asked to supply the following information:
(1)	Statement of teaching or educational, administrative experience (verification if required of all experience other than that obtained in the New Haven School System).
(2)	Statement of reasons why the teacher considers himself/herself fit for the position.
(3)	Pertinent experience in fields related to the position for which the application has been submitted.
(4)	If the aforementioned information is satisfactory, he/she may be required to have an interview. The candidate for a school level position shall be interviewed by a committee of the SPMT. The committee shall make recommendations to the Superintendent for a final selection. A statement of reasons why the information is considered unsatisfactory will be given if the teacher is not interviewed, and if such reason is requested by him/her.
(f)	The Federation will receive copies of the Promotion Eligibility List semiannually. The copies so provided shall also include a list of those who have notified the administration of their enrollment in planned programs as provided in Article
25
XVI, Section 13, Administrative Interns.
(g)	The position need not be filled from within the New Haven School System. However, teachers applying from outside the system must meet the same conditions as specified above. If, however, two (2) teachers on the promotional eligibility list are equal in fitness and are the most fit of those available for the position, the position shall be filled with the teacher with the most seniority in the New Haven School System.
(h)	Posting of Vacancies
(1)	All vacancies for promotional positions shall be publicized by posting on the bulletin boards and publication in the Superintendent’s Bulletin at least twenty-five (25) days prior to filling the vacancies. All posting shall include job description, salary and certification and other necessary qualifications.
(2)	If vacancies occur during the summer, they shall not be filled until the qualified applicants have been notified by a letter of the vacancy, the job description and the qualifications required and all other requirements have been met.
(3)	Upon filing a vacancy, the Federation shall be notified as to the position filled, the person accepted, his/her seniority and certification.
(4)	The Board shall establish and maintain qualifications for similar positions.
(5)	In the event a Head Coaching position is vacated, the Board shall consider and review the qualifications of the Assistant Coach in that sport before considering the applications of others.
SECTION 4.	Improved Process for Intra-School Assignment
(a)	Notification in writing will be given to the teachers of any changes in their programs, schedules assignments, grades, subject, or rooms, for the following school year as soon as practicable, but in any event no later than one week before the close of school annually. However, it is understood that where special conditions arise during the months of May through August, changes in assignments may be made to fulfill the assignments of a particular situation, in which event, written notice will be given to the teachers as soon as practical after the change is made.
(b)	Conferences should be held no later than June 15 between the appropriate administrator and teachers in order to discuss such teacher’s schedule for the forthcoming year.
(c)	Before the end of each school year, time shall be devoted at a faculty conference in each elementary and middle school to a discussion of pupil and teacher assignment for the
26
coming year which shall include discussion of plans, goals and needs for school programs.
(d)	Building assignments, class assignments, and exemption from homeroom duties shall be made as equitably as possible consistent with sound educational practices. Any teacher desiring to have his/her assignment changed relative to homeroom, building and class assignment shall request such change in writing to the principal, personnel director, and area director no later than March 1. Programming Preference Sheets upon which such requests may be made shall be distributed to all teachers prior to February 15, and their availability shall be announced. All Preference Sheet should be returned no later than March 1 to the principal who shall include in his/her consideration the teacher’s preparation, experience and seniority in preparing the Master Schedule.
ARTICLE VIII PERSONNEL FILES AND EVALUATIONS
SECTION 1.	Personnel Files
(a)	The teacher’s “official personnel file” shall be made up of all of the documents and other materials which are accumulated from the beginning of a teacher’s service in the New Haven Public School system.
(b)	Teachers shall have the right to inspect their own personnel files, to question or to comment in writing or to reproduce any material therein. The Board agrees to continue its policy of treating personnel files with the highest degree of confidence, to the extent permitted by law.
(c)	Before any derogatory material is placed in a teacher’s personnel file, a copy will be sent to the teacher and a meeting will be arranged to discuss the contents of such material providing the teacher requests such a meeting in writing within ten (10) school days of receipt of the letter. The teacher and a Federation representative will have an opportunity to comment on the material prior to inclusion in the file. No derogatory material which concerns an incident occurring more than one (1) month previous to a file entry shall be put in a teacher’s file. The teacher will have the right to answer any material filed and his/her answer will be attached to the file copy.
(d)	Teachers will have the right to inspect any personnel files which may be kept by administrators in the individual schools. Administrators who keep such files shall notify teachers of their existence.
(e)	Administrators should enclose in the file information of a positive nature indicating special competencies, achievements, performances or contributions of an academic, professional or civic nature.
27
...... '.. —~-- 1
SECTION 2.	Evaluations
(a)	Evaluations shall be signed by the evaluator and then a copy shall be given to the teacher and the original shall be signed by the teacher. A teacher shall be allowed to make a writ- I ten comment with respect to his/her evaluation and such shall be attached to the evaluation form.
(b)	Evaluations which are not signed by the teacher to indicate that he/she has had the opportunity to read the evaluation shall be null and void. Signature shall not be construed to mean j agreement with the evaluations.	I
(c)	Public address systems, electronic equipment or any	!
other monitoring or recording devices, will not be used to observe the teacher.
AJKUCLEIX STAFF DEVELOPMENT
SECTION 1.	The Board and Federation agree that the joint efforts of teachers and administrators shall be directed towards the development of a meaningful staff development training program. To accomplish this, committees of teachers in each	i
school shall meet monthly with the principal and administrators in each school to develop and determine methods to implement	।
“staff development training programs” meaningful to the teachers of that school. All such meetings between teacher committees and administrators shall be held in the afternoon on released time when such meetings can be worked into the schedule. The meeting may run up to one (1) hour unless extended by mutual agreement.
SECTION 2.	The meetings to implement the above programs will be scheduled by various school committees referred to in Article IV of this Agreement. Such meetings shall be held in the afternoon on released time when such can be worked into the schedule.
SECTION 3.	The use of electronic equipment and other	j
types of teaching aides for in -service training is encouraged. If particular teachers in the system are used as examples, then such j will be discussed with the individual teacher prior to actual use.	j
SECTION 4.	j
(a)	There shall be a city-wide Staff Development Committee composed of three (3) teachers appointed by the New Haven Federation of Teachers and three (3) teachers and/or administrators appointed by the Superintendent.
(b)	This committee shall be responsible for establishing a minimum of two (2) release time staff development activities for the entire teaching staff.
SECTION 5.	The Administration shall not schedule any other after school meeting during the week of a staff development session.
AEIICLEX TEACHER FACILITIES
SECTION 1. The following facilities shall be provided for teachers:
(a)	A room containing proper equipment and supplies to aid the teacher in the preparation of educational materials. Such equipment shall include a duplicating machine in good working condition with auxiliary supplies.
(b)	Space in each school in which the teachers may safely store instructional materials and supplies.
(c)	Well lighted teacher rest rooms, amply supplied with toilet paper, towels and soap.
(d)	Lunchroom facilities and a furnished faculty lounge separate from the students in each regular school building where a soft drink vending machine and an extension phone may be installed.
(e)	A system whereby teachers can expeditiously communicate with the main office in the event of an emergency.
(f)	Where the facilities are not now available, and where providing same would not require the redesign of a new or existing building, the administration of the school will work with the teachers in providing such facilities.
(g)	If it is possible to arrange parking facilities for the teachers, the Board will do so. Special consideration shall be given to the provision of parking facilities for itinerant personnel. Where parking problems exist, the Advisory Committee of that school shall consider and submit recommendations for a solution of such problems. Problems that are system wide may be given to a study committee for investigation. The parties can devise mutually acceptable solutions.
(h)	Teachers will be provided with individual mail boxes.
(i)	The Board agrees to form a joint committee with the Federation to approach the Parking Commission to request parking facilities and/or permission for teachers where conditions warrant.
(j)	All schools shall adhere to State and Board Policy with respect to smoking in the schools.
28
29
-
ARTICLE XI TEACHER PROTECTION
SECTION 1.	Negligence
(a)	The Board agrees to protect and save harmless any teachers from financial loss and expense, including legal fees and costs, if any, arising out of any claim, demand, suit or judgement by reason of alleged negligence or other act resulting in accidental bodily injury to or death of any persons, providing that at the time of the accident resulting in such injury the teacher was acting in the discharge of his/her duties within the scope of his/her employment, it being understood that the Board’s obligation hereunder is the same as that required in Section 10-235 of the General Statues of Connecticut.
(b)	Teachers will immediately report incidents of personal or property damage to their immediate supervisor.
(c)	In cases of compensable personal injury (excluding assault covered in Section 2 hereof), the teacher may use his/her unused sick leave to make up the difference between the daily Worker’s Compensation Benefit and his/her regular daily rate of pay, in which event the charge against his/her accumulated sick leave account shall be prorated in accordance with the portion of the total payment received daily which constitutes sick leave pay. All members of the New Haven Federation of Teachers bargaining unit who are absent from school and entitled to Workers Compensation will have their sick leave account reimbursed at the rate of two-thirds (2/3) of a day for every day the teacher has been charged with his/her eligible sick days during the compensation period. The reimbursement will occur as soon as the payroll office is notified that the teacher has returned to work.
SECTION 2.	Assault
If a teacher while acting in the discharge of his/her duties within the scope of his/her employment is assaulted, then:
(a)	The teacher will report the incident to his/her immediate supervisor and the authorities as soon as possible.
(b)	A teacher shall receive his/her full salary during any absence from school resulting from an injury due to an assault which results from his/her employment. Such teacher’s sick leave shall not be reduced thereby. The total amount of monies received by such teacher from the Board, in salary, and from the Worker’s Compensation insurance carrier shall not be in excess of his/her normal annual salary under this Agreement. In the event a teacher is on an extended absence resulting from an assault, he/she may be required to submit medical evidence from a licensed physician indicating the reason for the extended absence.
30
(c)	In the event a teacher is accused of assault or negligence resulting from action by the teacher while such teacher was acting in the discharge of his/her duties within the scope of his/her employment, then the Board shall provide him/her legal counsel and defend him/her in any proceeding resulting therefrom.
(d)	Liability for damages resulting from the negligence of a teacher acting in the discharge of his/her duties within the scope of his/her employment shall be assumed by the Board.
ARTICLEXn SALARIES
SECTION 1.	Teachers with advanced degrees beyond the Bachelor’s will receive additional compensation by reason of such degrees or additional study as set forth in the salary schedule. Teachers will be placed in the MA salary schedule if they have completed thirty (30) credits beyond the Bachelor’s Degree in a planned course of study with prior approval by the college and the Board. Teachers will be placed in the 6th year salary schedule if they have completed thirty (30) credits beyond the Master’s Degree in a planned course of study with prior approval by the college and the Board. Such approval must be in writing.
SECTION 2.	Individual salaries will be adjusted to conform to the salary schedule upon successful completion of such graduate work as of September 1, and as of February 1, for those who complete such graduate work during the first semester of the institution he/she has attended.
SECTION 3.	New teachers will be credited for their previous years of experience if such meet the following requirements:
(a)	If such pervious experience is at a public or an acceptable private school;
(b)	If such service is as a full-time teacher; and
(c)	Full-time college teaching experience.
SECTION 4.	If such teaching service is for a term or more, it shall be credited as a full year for salary purposes only. Intermittent or short term substitute service will not be credited as previous teaching experience. A teacher hired during the first ten (10) school days of either term shall receive credit for a full term of teaching service for salary purposes only.
SECTION 5.	New teachers who participate in a state approved Alternate Route to Certification program may receive
31



up to five (5) years on the salary scale for years of service in their prior professions. The Board in its sole discretion shall determine what credit, if any, should be given and may determine what requirements will be considered.
SECTION 6.	In the event that the Board determines there is a shortage in a particular specialty, it may offer financial hiring incentives it deems appropriate to effectuate a hire. Such incentives shall be considered by the Board on a case-by-case basis and may include but shall not be limited to credited years of service or hiring bonuses. Any action taken by the Board under this section shall not constitute a practice or precedent.
SECTION 7.	Teaching service in the Peace Corps, Vista or Teachers Corps programs shall be credited for salary purposes only up to a maximum of two (2) years, providing such is continuous for at least a period of a term or more.
SECTION 8.	On September 1 annually, teachers shall be slotted into the appropriate step of the Salary Schedules annexed hereto on the basis of each full year of credited service in the System.
SECTION 9.	Specialists listed in the schedule below shall receive the following amounts annually pursuant to the salary scale:
Physically Handicapped	$300.00
Visually Handicapped	300.00
Mentally Retarded	300.00
Emotionally Handicapped	300.00
Neurologically Impaired	300.00
Psychological Examiner	400.00
Associate Social Worker	400.00
Speech and Hearing Therapists 400.00
Counselors	500.00
Reading Consultant	500.00
Certified Social Worker	700.00
(a)	Specialists hired after January 1, 1976, will not receive the amounts listed above. All persons who were receiving the differentials prior to January 1, 1976, shall continue to be paid the same differential.
(b)	Members of the teaching staff whose certification requires a 60 Credit Master’s will be placed on the sixth year Salary Schedule. Members of the teaching staff who are receiving a differential and whose certification requires a 60 Credit Master’s have the option to select the economically higher alternative between the differential and the sixth year Salary Schedule, but not both.
SECTION 10.
In the event a head coach or assistant coach starts the season and is injured, disabled or becomes ill while in the act of performing his/her duties as a coach, or is injured or disabled or becomes ill while he/she is traveling to or froiji his/her home or to or from a scheduled trip, such coach shall accrue the seasonal salary and benefits as if the season had been completed.
SECTION 11.	Pay for Travel
The Board of Education shall continue to follow the policy applicable to all other employees in the City of New Haven with respect to pay for travel and reimbursement for conferences and lodging expenses.
SECTION 12.	Payroll Procedure
(a)	Each employee shall elect in writing at the time he/she executes his/her individual salary agreement whether he/she wishes to be paid on a twenty-one (21) or twenty-six (26) payment schedule. Such election cannot be changed for the duration of the annual salary agreement. Gross salary payments shall be in equal amounts and made on alternate Fridays except if such days fall on a holiday then payments shall be made on the previous day. In the event an employee fails to make the election as specified above, he/she shall be paid on the twenty-one (21) payment schedule.
(b)	Beginning in the school year 1980-81, teachers on the twenty-six (26) payment schedule shall have the option of collecting all summer checks on the last day in June, provided said election is made at the time the individual salary agreement is executed as indicated in paragraph (a) above.
(c)	The Board will petition the State Teacher’s Retirement Board for permission to make twenty (20) bi-weekly retirement deductions. The Federation will assume responsibility for all shortages that may occur because of this procedure. The Federation will save and hold the Board harmless with respect to any loss which may occur.
SECTION 13.	Detention Coverage
It is recommended that the following procedures be followed by the principals in the secondary and middle schools when detention classes are established: The principal shall assign a teacher to regularly covered detention classes and if a teacher shall be regularly assigned, that teacher will be required to teach one less period per day, shall have no homeroom assignment and will be required to report for no more than six and three-quarters (6 3/4) consecutive hours per day. However, a principal may arrange to handle detention classes in another manner.
33
32
WHMMMI
SECTION 14.	Home Bound Compensation
(a)	Effective July 1, 2003, homebound teachers shall be paid $27.18 per hour for the first one hundred fifty (150) hours and $28.65 per hour thereafter. Teachers shall be certified in the area in which they are requested to teach. Such assignments are voluntary.
(b)	Effective July 1, 2004, increase each category of homebound teachers’ hourly rate by 2.6% over the amount paid in 2003-04.
(c)	Effective July 1,2005, increase each category of homebound teachers’ hourly rate by 2.6% over the amount paid in 2004-05.
SECTION 15.	Summer School
The Board shall determine annually whether a summer school is to be held. If such is held, the following conditions will prevail:
(a)	Teachers from the previous year’s summer school shall be given preference in summer school positions in their certified area, if their evaluation shows satisfactory performance.
(b)	Teachers from the previous year’s regularly appointed teaching staff shall be given an opportunity to fill any vacancies in their certified area which exist in the faculty of the summer school. Seniority and qualifications for the particular vacancy shall determine who is chosen for the vacancy.
(c)	The regular teaching staff will be notified of vacancies in the summer school faculty by May 1 of any year. Such notice shall be included in the Superintendent’s Bulletin. Teachers selected for summer school will be notified by June 1 annually.
(d)	Effective July 1, 2003, teachers teaching in the summer school shall be paid $22.50 per hour.
(e)	Effective July 1, 2004, teachers teaching in the summer school shall be paid an increase in salary by 2.6% over the amount paid during the 2003-04 school year.
(f)	Effective July 1, 2005, teachers teaching in the summer school shall be paid an increase in salary by 2.6% over the amount paid during the 2004-05 school year.
(g)	A full summer school session shall be thirty (30) working days.
(h)	Each workday shall consist of four (4) hours of work.
(i)	New Haven teachers shall be given preference in summer school positions where the New Haven teacher is equal to
34
or superior to all other applicants. The determination of relative credentials shall be made by the appropriate administrator.
SECTION 16.	Adult Education
Preference in filling open positions in the Adult Education Program shall be given to qualified teachers from the New Haven School System who apply for positions within their areas of certification.
(a)	Effective July 1, 2003, adult education teachers shall be paid $27.28 per hour for the first one hundred fifty (150) hours and $28.65 per hour thereafter. Teachers shall be certified in the area in which they are requested to teach. Such assignments are voluntary.
(b)	Effective July 1, 2004, the rates for teachers teaching in the adult education program shall be increased by 2.6% over the amounts paid during the 2003-04 school year.
(c)	Effective July 1, 2005, the rates for teachers teaching in the adult education program shall be increased by 2.6% over the amounts paid during the 2004-05 school year.
SECTION 17.	Club Advisors
A. Commencing in the 2003-04 school year, annual stipends shall be paid to the following club advisors, according to the following schedule:
(a)	Cheerleading Advisors	$5,125	
(b)	Band Directors	$5,125	
(c)	Yearbook Advisor	$4,831	
(d)	Newspaper Advisor	$4,831	
(e)	Literary Magazine Advisor	$2,414	
(0	Drama Club Advisors	$2,561	per major production at the Middle and High Schools
B.	Commencing in the 2004-05 school year, annual		
stipends shall be raised by 2.6% from the previous year:			
(a)	Cheerleading Advisors	$5,258	
(b)	Band Directors	$5,258	
(c)	Yearbook Advisor	$4,957	
(d)	Newspaper Advisor	$4,957	
(e)	Literary Magazine Advisor	$2,477	
(f)	Drama Club Advisors	$2,628	per major production at the Middle and High Schools.
	35		

C. Commencing in the 2005-06 school year, annual stipends shall be raised by 2.6% from the previous year:
(a)	Cheerleading Advisors	$5,395
(b)	Band Directors	$5,395
(c)	Yearbook Advisor	$5,086
(d)	Newspaper Advisor	$5,086
(e)	Literary Magazine Advisor	$2,541
(0	Drama Club Advisors	$2,696 per major produc-
		tion at the Middle
		and High Schools.
AKIICLEJLni BENEFIT PROGRAMS
SECTION 1.
(a)	Effective as soon as possible, the Board shall cover all employees scheduled to work twenty (20) hours per week or more and their eligible dependents under one of four medical care programs known as, “CP-1”, “CP-2”, “BC-1” and “BC-2.” Employees may choose among the medical plans at the time of enrollment and at the time of the annual open enrollment. These plan summaries are outlined in Appendix E to this Agreement. Complete plan documents shall be maintained in the City of New Haven’s Office of Medical Benefits.
During the course of this Agreement the Board will hold a one-time required re-enrollment for all bargaining unit members and their eligible dependents. At this time all members will be required to re-enroll in their choice of the City’s offered medical benefit plans pursuant to the regulations prescribed by the Medical Benefits Office. Any individual not participating in this re-enrollment will not be eligible for continuation of medical benefits until such time as they re-enroll pursuant to this section.
(b)	Employees must contribute a percentage of the cost of his/her (and the cost of eligible dependents) health and dental benefits based upon the COBRA rates in effect at the time. Their contributions shall be made through weekly payroll deductions as follows:
	BC-2	BC-1	CPz2	CP-1
7/1/03-6/30/04	5%	7%	10%	12%
7/1/04-6/30/05	7%	9%	12%	15%
7/1/05-6/30/06	9%	11%	15%	18%
(c)	The payroll deductions specified above shall be implemented pursuant to a Section 125 pre-tax wage deduction plan in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code (and in accordance with any amendments to said provisions) so long as said provisions allow for such a plan. Said plan will be designed to permit exclusion from
36
taxable income of the employees’ share of health insurance premiums for those employees who complete and sign the appropriate wage deduction form. The Board shall incur no obligation to engage in any form of impact bargaining in the event that a change in law reduces or eliminates the tax-exempt status of the employee insurance premium contributions. Neither the Federation nor any employee covered by this Agreement shall make any claim or demand nor maintain any action against the Board or any if its members or agents for taxes, penalties, interest or other costs or loss arising from the use of the wage deduction form or from a change in law that may reduce or eliminate the employee’s tax benefits to be derived from this plan. Further, the parties agree that the health insurance benefits and the administration of those benefits shall continue to be governed by the collective bargaining Agreement and the carrier’s insurance plan.
(d)	The Board shall also provide a Blue Cross Full Service Dental Plan for individual employees and all eligible dependents, including Rider A (additional basic benefits), Rider B (prosthetics), Rider C (periodontics), Rider D (orthodontia), and unmarried Dependent Child (19 -24).
(e)	Effective July 1, 1992, the Board shall provide Fifty-five Thousand ($55,000) life insurance upon the life of each teacher covered by this Agreement, and an equal amount of accidental death and dismemberment coverage shall be provided for each teacher covered by this Agreement.
(f)	Teachers who retire may continue health insurance coverage at their own expense at the group rate paid by the Board, so long as they make the necessary payment in a timely fashion.
(g)	Teachers who retire pursuant to the Connecticut State Teachers Retirement Fund, with twenty-five (25) years of teaching in the New Haven Public Schools and are below age sixty-five (65) shall have the premiums of all health insurance benefits provided under this Agreement at the time of retirement paid by the Board until they reach age sixty-five (65) or sooner qualify for Medicare to the extent that such premiums do not exceed the amount of the group rate paid for the teachers at the time of retirement. At age sixty-five (65), such teachers who are not covered by Medicare, shall be provided, at Board expense, insurance benefits equivalent to those provided by Medicare.
(h)	On an annual basis, teachers who have alternate health insurance coverage may choose to waive the above listed health insurance (BC/BS, Major Medical) and instead receive an additional $75,000 life insurance coverage above that provided in paragraph (b). Teachers who choose to exercise this waiver must so inform the Personnel Department, in writing, by June 15 for the next year beginning July 1. Teachers who have waived, but wish no longer to waive, shall inform the personnel office, in writing, by June 15 for the next year beginning July 1.
37


(i)	Child and Dependent Care Reimbursement Program. The New Haven Board of Education agrees to reduce the salary of teachers who authorize the same by a designated amount and apply that amount to benefits under the Reimbursement Program for Child and Dependent Care Expenses. The teacher agrees to provide the Board with a qualifying Child and Dependent Care expenses verification in order to be reimbursed. The amount reimbursed will be limited to the amount authorized by the teacher to be deducted and is subject to the limitations and procedures established under the plan. (The total amount deducted may not exceed $5,000).
(j)	Effective September 1, 1994, the Agreement will contain a description of the Workers’ Compensation preferred provider plan developed by the Board and approved by the Workers’ Compensation Commission in accordance with Connecticut General Statutes Section 31-279 et seq.
(k)	Domestic Partners: The Board shall provide all contractual benefits provided to spouses to domestic partners.
A. The term “spouse” used anywhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to include a covered person’s unmarried domestic partner who has executed an affidavit in accordance with this provision. A teacher wishing to change his/her health or pension status based upon being in a domestic partnership must execute an affidavit with the New Haven Board of Education, together with appropriate evidence of joint residency and mutual dependence. The affidavit shall certify under the penalty of perjury that he or she:
1.	Is in a relationship of mutual support, caring and commitment, and intends to remain in such relation ship for the indefinite future.
2.	Is not married to anyone else.
3.	Is his/her domestic partner’s sole domestic partner, and vice versa.
4.	Is not related by blood to the domestic partner closer than would bar marriage in the State of Connecticut.
5.	Is at least 18 years of age and competent to contract.
6.	Shares a legal residence with his/her domestic partner, and has shared a common legal residence for at least 12 months prior to the execution of the affidavit.
7.	Is jointly responsible with his/her domestic partner for maintaining common household.
8.	Will inform the New Haven Board of Education promptly if there is any change in the status of the domestic partnership.
The evidence of mutual dependence shall be any two of the following:
*	Ownership of a joint bank account
38
*	Ownership of a joint credit card
*	Evidence of a joint obligation on a loan
*	Evidence of a common household (household ex penses, e.g., utility bills, telephone bills, joint public assistant budget, etc.)
*	Joint ownership of a motor vehicle
*	Execution of wills naming each other as executor and/or beneficiary
*	Granting each other durable power of attorney
*	Granting each other powers of attorney
*	Designation by one or other as beneficiary under a retirement benefits account
*	Evidence of other joint responsibility And shall provide either
*	A joint mortgage or lease, or
*	Joint ownership of a residence, or
*	Comparable evidence of a permanent intent to cohabitate
A dependent child of the domestic partner (as defined above) shall not be covered.
SECTION 2.	The Boards liability under this Article shall be to pay the premiums required for coverage and payments shall be in accordance with the conditions stated in the policy which all teachers agree to be bound by.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN
Annual Maximum Co-Pays	Unlimited
Tier 1 - Generic	$5
Tier 2 - Listed Brand	$ 15
Tier 3 - Non Listed Brand	$25
Mail Order Co-Pays
90 Day Supply (Maintenance Medications)
Tier 1 - Generic	$10
Tier 2 - Listed Brand	$30
Tier 3 - Non Listed Brand	$50
Generic Substitution	Yes
National Network	Available
Emergencies	Covered
Non Participating Pharmacies	Plan pays 80% of
Anthem Allowances
Physician Dispensing	Prescriptions may be
written by participating or non participating an physicians

Tier 1: Generic Drugs refers to a prescription that is considered non-proprietary and is not protected by a Trademark. It is required to meet the same bioequivalency test as the original brand name drug.
Tier 2: Listed Brand Name Drugs - The term “listed brand name” refers to a brand name prescription drug identified as the formulary by Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield as a prescription drug with a 2 Tier co-pay.
Tier 3: Non Listed Brand Name Drugs - The term “ non listed brand name” refers to a brand name prescription drug not identified on the formulary by Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Tier 3 copayment applies.
ARTICLE XIV
CONFORMITY TO LAW AND SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any provision to this Agreement is or shall at any time be determined contrary to law by a Court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall not be performed or enforced except to the extent permitted by law and any substitute action shall be subject to appropriate consultation and negotiation with the Federation. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is or shall at any time be determined to be contrary to law by a Court of competent jurisdiction, all other provisions of this Agreement shall continue in effect.
ARTICLE XV LAYOFFS
SECTION 1.	If layoffs are carried out, an affected member shall be offered the opportunity to transfer to other positions, in the following order:
(a)	First, to vacant positions for which he is certified.
(b)	Second, to a position occupied by a bargaining unit member not employed on the date this Agreement is agreed upon, provided the teacher to be transferred is certified for such position.
(c)	Third, to any other position within the bargaining unit for which he is certified.
(d)	Teachers offered a transfer under one of the above orders of priority shall have a right to choose in order of seniority, among positions available in the same order or priority. An affected member’s refusal to accept a proper offer to transfer under the above conditions shall result in his/her loss of any further right to transfer.
SECTION 2.	The provisions of this Article shall not be construed to permit layoffs or transfers which would:
(a)	Deprive any bargaining unit members of tenure or other rights to continued employment;
(b)	Result in a non-tenured teacher displacing a tenure teacher;
(c)	Result in the layoff or displacement of a more senior teacher in favor of a less senior teacher unless said more senior teacher fails to possess the special qualifications required for the position in question.
(d)	Result in the assignment of a teacher to a position which requires special qualifications which such teacher does not possess.
SECTION 3.	If any member of the bargaining unit is laid off due to elimination of position, such member shall possess recall rights for a period of two (2) years following the end of the school year in which the layoff occurs. Members on layoff with recall rights shall be recalled in order of seniority to a vacant position for which they are certified before any new employee is hired into such position. If a laid-off member refuses recall to any such position, he shall be retained on the recall list.
SECTION 4.	In the event of elimination of positions, resulting in the layoff, transfer or subsequent recall of members of the bargaining unit, the Board will discuss with the Federation the special qualifications, if any, which are required of the affected positions before action is taken.
SECTION 5.	The Board shall notify the Federation as soon as practicable of proposed elimination of positions under special fund programs. The Federation will be given a list of all layoffs, transfers and recalls resulting from this provision.
ARTICLE XVI MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 1. Teacher Directory
(a)	Not later than December 1 of the school year, each teacher will be provided with a manual giving the names and addresses of the staff. The Federation shall not hold the Board responsible for any delays by the printer.
(b)	As soon after October 15 as such information is available, but in no event later than when it is submitted to the printer, the Board shall provide the Federation with all of the information provided above and the seniority and degree of the members of the staff.
40
41
SECTION 2.	Sick Leave Statement
IIIBln
Each teacher will be provided, in October and March, with a statement of his/her accumulated sick leave and personal leave.
SECTION 3.	Class Interruption
I	To insure continuity of the learning process, classroom
i interruptions shall be limited to important announcements once j	per day according to an established schedule, except for emer-
;	gencies affecting the health and safety of the occupants of the
school.
SECTION 4.	Media Services
j	Problems relating to media services will be submitted to the
। i	SPMT and its recommendations shall be followed.
[i
SECTION 5.	The Federation shall discourage absenteeism, tardiness and any action by its members, individually or
I'i	collectively, which shall not conform to the provisions herein,
or which will detract from the professional status of one or
I.!, more of its members, whether such action be of moral, ethical or professional nature and further the Federation shall take all i i	action it deems necessary to fulfill its individual and collective
!	professional obligation and commitment to the pupils and the
community.
I i	SECTION 6. The Federation and the Board agree that this
Agreement represents the complete agreement between the parties concerning all conditions of employment and salaries of ;	teachers, for the duration of this Agreement.
! ।	SECTION 7. If the individual contracts with teachers are
used in the System, such contracts shall be consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 8.	The Board and Federation shall comply with all State and Federal Laws applicable.
SECTION 9.	The term “teacher” as used in this Agreement, except where otherwise indicated, is considered to apply to the regular professional certified employees referred to in the Recognition provisions hereof.”
SECTION 10.	Whenever written notice is required to be given herein, such notice shall be given by letter to the last address of the person as contained in the files of the Board of Education.
SECTION 11.	Pupil Grades
(a) The grade given to a pupil for the completion of an as-
42
signed task pursuant to the study of a required or elective subject in the curriculum taught by the teacher or an approved extracurricular activity under the supervision of the teacher is the teacher’s indication of the quality of performance by the pupil of this particular task.
(b)	The teacher shall be considered to be the expert in evaluating the pupil’s work, and the integrity of the teacher shall be respected in grading the work of the pupil.
(c)	The grade given by the teacher shall not be changed by another person. However, in the event that the grade should be challenged by the pupil and/or his/her parent(s), and after appropriate conference it appears that all factors involved in the performance of the pupil may not have been known or taken into consideration by the teacher, the teacher has the prerogative and duty to adjust such grade in accordance with all factors involved.
(d)	No minimum or maximum limitation shall be set on the number who pass or Jail, but every teacher will be expected to give all possible assistance and encouragement to pupils whose work may be below passing standards and to challenge those who may be finding the work too easy.
(e)	All instruments of student evaluation shall be formulated by a city-wide committee of equal numbers of teachers, students, parents, and administrators. Two-thirds of the teachers shall be appointed by the Federation.
SECTION 12.	Teaching Principal
The Board and the Federation agree that no teacher shall act in the capacity of an administrator as a temporary employee unless compensated for the temporary substitution as an administrator in charge of a school. This provision shall not apply if there is anyone on the eligibility list qualified to fill the vacant position.
SECTION 13.	Administrative Intern
Administrative Interns shall be selected from those enrolled in a planned program leading to certification. Maximum period of internship shall be a period of two (2) years unless in the judgement of the appropriate administrator (a) no other qualified applicant is available or (b) removing the incumbent intern would jeopardize the educational program.
SECTION 14.	Letters of Recommendation
If an employee requests a letter of recommendation from the administrator or his/her supervisor, and the administrator or his/her supervisor agrees to write one, a copy of such letter shall be placed in his/her personal file upon the teacher’s request.
43

SECTION 15.	Specialists
Although every teacher is considered a specialist in his/her own particular area of competence, for the purpose of this Section, Specialists shall be defined as individuals whose general conditions of employment vary from those of the regular classroom teacher in that their position is affected by physical limitation or requires a different atmosphere within which they are required to do their job; further specialized certification, mobility or skills specific to do their particular area of instruction. Such Specialists’ condition will be regulated as follows:
(a)	Where needed, clerical assistance will be provided when at least one day notice is given stating such need.
(b)	Work load shall not normally exceed that which would necessitate working more than the regular number of hours.
(c)	Adequate facilities and materials will be provided when needed if they are properly requisitioned.
SECTION 16.	Cancellation of Schools
The Board will make every effort to notify radio stations WELI, WNHC, WAVZ, WYBC, and WPLR by 6:00 a.m. if schools are to be closed due to inclement weather or other emergency conditions.
SECTION 17.	The Board affirms its continuing policy of compliance with legal requirements as to the employment of substitutes, and additionally the Board shall not use substitutes in place of teachers solely for economic reasons. The Federation will be given a copy of the substitutes list supplied to the state Board of Education in October of each year.
SECTION 18.	Residual Rights
If the work of any teacher is used outside the school system, such will be used only with the consent of the individual teacher.
SECTION 19.	Part-Time Teachers
(a)	Teachers who are permanently assigned to work twenty (20) hours or more shall be paid a prorata amount based upon the appropriate step of the salary schedule. Such teachers shall receive full insurance benefits and a prorata amount of sick days and personal days.
(b)	Teachers who work nineteen (19) hours or less shall be paid the hourly rate specified in Section 14 of Article XII and shall be entitled to no other benefits.
SECTION 20.	Job Sharing
The parties recognize the need to retain and attract quality teachers for the school system and that job sharing represents an opportunity to increase the types and flexibility of job offerings available to teachers and is of assistance to the school system in attracting and retaining quality teachers as well as improving instruction. It is in the spirit of this understanding that the parties agree that cooperative efforts should be made between the administration and teachers who request such a job sharing arrangement. The final judgment on whether to grant a job sharing arrangement rests solely with the administration.
ARTICLEX.YII
COOPERATIVE EDUCATIONAL PLANNING
SECTION 1.	The Board and the Federation are dedicated to the principal of the continual improvement of the total educational opportunities for children of the New Haven School System. In furtherance of this joint objective, the Federation and the Board agree to work toward planning educationally innovative programs geared to the specific needs of the children of New Haven. The implementation of any such programs shall be contingent upon the obtaining of Special Funds or Grants to finance the implementation of such programs.
SECTION 2.	A city-wide committee shall be established to which all proposals for changes in curriculum and all proposals for innovative programs shall be submitted for review and comment before requests for funding are made. When feasible, such submissions shall be made prior to the request for funding. This committee shall be composed of ten teachers, seven to be designated by the Federation, and five administrators, not more than five such meetings for this committee shall be held on released time. All proposals shall be implemented first on a trial basis, and final implementation shall include careful consideration of the evaluation of participating teachers. Additionally, proposed changes in school, grade or programmatic organization may be reviewed by this committee.
SECTION 3.	In support of Cooperative Educational Planning, the parties hereto presently support the concept of a Teacher Resource Center to be developed at any school and if staffed, shall be staffed by a certified teacher. The Cooperative Educational Planning Committee shall develop in discussions with the Superintendent the schedule the Resource Center will be opened, it being understood that continued support for the Center will be dependent upon use by the teachers.
SECTION 4.	An SPMT shall be established in each school to assist in determining and implementing the educational goals for each school. It is understood that as professionals, teachers should be encouraged and expected to participate in a process
45
44
■■■■■■■■■
1
which will provide opportunities to meaningfully discuss the methods and scope of the educational and programmatic plans for each school and department. In addition to assisting the determination of the educational goals, the SPMT will also assist in the determination of the curriculum needs, budgetary needs and student assignments for each school.
SECTION 5.	The SPMT is a representative body consisting of teachers, administrators, parents, and sometimes students. Each constituent group selects its representatives to serve on the SPMT. The SPMT will make recommendations in matters pertaining to the budgetary, programmatic, staffing and curricular needs of the school.
ARTICLE XVIII AMENDMENT TO THIS AGREEMENT
SECTION 1.	With regard to matters not covered by this Agreement, the Board agrees to make no change in existing policy affecting mandatory subjects of bargaining without prior consultation with the Federation.
SECTION 2.	Negotiations with respect to changes in or additions to the provisions of this contract (except matters relating to the salary schedule and/or the benefit provisions stated herein) shall be initiated at the written request of either party. The negotiating committees shall meet (unless otherwise agreed) within four (4) days of the receipt of such request and shall continue to meet until (1) the matters being negotiated have been resolved by agreement, or (2) an impasse has been reached and mediation procedures under Section 10-153 of the General Statutes of Connecticut have been invoked.
ARTICLE XIX DURATION
SECTION 1.	The parties agree to negotiate in good faith in an effort to secure a successor agreement in accordance with Public Act 76-403, and to commence such negotiations not later than the first of November of the year preceding the termination of this Agreement, upon written request of either party, filed two (2) weeks before the date negotiations are requested to commence.
SECTION 2.	This Agreement shall become binding and effective as of July 1, 2003 and shall remain in full force and effect until June 30, 2006.
SECTION 3.	In the event that the Board and the Federation fail to secure a successor Agreement as provided in Section 1 of this Article prior to the above expiration date of this Agreement, the parties may mutually agree to extend this Agreement for any period of time provided that any such Agreement reached is retroactive to the expiration date of this agreement.
46
APPENDIX A
New Haven Public Schools Teachers Salary July 1,2003- June 30, 2004
STEPS	BA	MA	6TH YEAR	PH.D.
1	$33,374	$35,417	$37,629	$41,277
2	$34,901	$36,943	$39,156	$42,804
3	$36,326	$38,368	$40,581	$44,228
4	$37,321	$39,218	$41,576	$45,225
5	$38,862	$40,686	$43,117	$46,766
6	$40,480	$42,303	$44,735	$48,383
7	$42,178	$44,001	$46,434	$50,082
8	$43,960	$45,783	$48,216	$51,865
9	$45,831	$47,653	$50,086	$53,734
10	$47,794	$49,616	$52,049	$55,695
11	$49,851	$51,676	$54,108	$57,755
12	$52,013	$53,846	$56,268	$59,915
13	$55,249	$57,071	$59,504	$63,150
14	$58,398	$60,252	$62,726	$66,434
15	$61,547	$63,432	$65,947	$69,718
16	$64,696	$66,613	$69,169	$73,001
17	$67,845	$69,793	$72,390	$76,285
Teachers with 35 or more years of teaching experience shall receive a $500 longevity added to their salary.
47
		APPENDIX A		
	New Haven Public Schools Teachers Salary			
	July 1, 2004- June 30, 2005			
STEPS BA		MA	6THYEAR	PH.D.
1	$35,669	$37,756	$40,017	$43,746
2	$37,125	$39,212	$41,474	$45,201
3	$38,142	$40,081	$42,491	$46,220
4	$39,717	$41,581	$44,066	$47,795
5	$41,371	$43,234	$45,719	$49,447
6	$43,106	$44,969	$47,456	$51,184
7	$44,927	$46,790	$49,277	$53,006
8	$46,839	$48,701	$51,188	$54,916
9	$48,845	$50,708	$53,194	$56,920
10	$50,948	$52,813	$55,298	$59,026
11	$53,157	$55,031	$57,506	$61,233
12	$56,464	$58,327	$60,813	$64,539
13	$59,683	$61,578	$64,106	$67,896
14	$62,901	$64,828	$67,398	$71,252
15	$66,119	$68,078	$70,691	$74,607
16	$69,338	$71,328	$73,983	$77,963
APPENDIXA
New Haven Public Schools Teachers Salary
July 1,2005- June 30,2006 *
STEPS	BA	MA	6TH YEAR	PH.D.
1	$38,053	$40,192	$42,511	$46,331
2	$39,096	$41,083	$43,553	$47,376
3	$40,710	$42,621	$45,168	$48,990
4	$42,405	$44,315	$46,862	$50,683
5	$44,184	$46,093	$48,642	$52,464
6	$46,050	$47,960	$50,509	$54,331
7	$48,010	$49,919	$52,468	$56,289
8	$50,066	$51,976	$54,524	$58,343
9	$52,222	$54,133	$56,681	$60,502
10	$54,486	$56,407	$58,944	$62,794
11	$57,876	$59,785	$62,333	$66,152
12	$61,175	$63,117	$65,709	$69,597
13	$64,474	$66,449	$69,083	$73,033
14	$67,772	$69,780	$72,458	$76,472
15	$71,071	$73,111	$75,833	$79,912
Teachers with 30 or more years of teaching experience shall receive a $750 longevity added to their salary.
48
49
				
AP P ENDIX.B
APPENDIX B
COACHES SALARY SCHEDULE 2003-2004
COACHES SALARY SCHEDULE 2004-2005
	1	2	3	4	1		2	3	4
Football/Basketball Head	$4,444	$4,742	$4,942	$5,600	Football/Basketball Head	$4,560	$4,865	$5,070	$5,746
Football/Basketball Assistant $3,303		$3,502	$3,704	$4,215	Football/Basketball Assistant	$3,389	$3,593	$3,800	$4,325
Baseball/Softball/ Track Head	$4,262	$4,559	$4,760 $5,418		Baseball/Softball/ Track Head	$4,373	$4,678	$4,884	$5,559
Baseball/Softball/ Track Assistant	$3,120	$3,320	$3,522	$3,994	Baseball/Softball/ Track Assistant	$3,201	$3,406	$3,614	$4,098
Hockey Head	$4,141	$4,742	$4,942	$5,600	Hockey Head	$4,249	$4,865	$5,070	$5,746
Hockey Assistant	$3,335	$3,502	$3,704	$4,215	Hockey Assistant	$3,422	$3,593	$3,800	$4,325
Soccer/Tennis/ Volleyball Head	$3,938	$4,123	$4,338	$5,418	Soccer/Tennis/ Volleyball Head	$4,040	$4,230	$4,451	$5,559
Soccer/Tennis/ Volleyball Assistant	$3,120	$3,320	$3,522	$3,985	Soccer/Tennis/ Volleyball Assistant	$3,201	$3,406	$3,614	$4,089
Trainer/Football	$2,336	$2,437	$2,537	$2,913	Trainer/Football	$2,397	$2,500	$2,603	$2,989
Spring Football Head	$2,147	$2,147	$2,147	$2,423	Spring Football Head	$2,203	$2,203	$2,203	$2,486
Spring Football Assistant	$1,945	$1,945	$1,945	$2,221	Spring Football Assistant	$1,996	$1,996	$1,996	$2,279
Golf/Swimming Head	$3,938	$4,123	$4,339	$5,418	Golf/Swimming Head	$4,040	$4,230	$4,452	$5,559
Cross Country Head	$4,238	$4,559	$4,750	$5,418	Cross Country Head	$4,348	$4,678	$4,874	$5,559
50
51

APPENDIX B
COACHES	SALARY SCHEDULE 2005-2006			
	1	2	3	4
Football/Basketball Head	$4,679	$4,991	$5,202	$5,895
Football/Basketball Assistant	$3,477	$3,686	$3,899	$4,437
Baseball/Softball Track Head	$4,794	$4,800	$5,011	$5,704
Baseball/Softball/ Track Assistant	$3,284	$3,495	$3,708	$4,205
Hockey Head	$4,359	$4,991	$5,202	$5,895
Hockey Assistant	$3,511	$3,686	$3,899	$4,437
Soccer/Tennis/ Volleyball Head	$4,145	$4,340	$4,567	$5,704
Soccer/Tennis/ Volleyball Assistant	$3,284	$3,495	$3,708	$4,195
Trainer/Football	$2,459	$2,565	$2,671	$3,067
Spring Football Head	$2,260	$2,260	$2,260 $2,551	
Spring Football Assistant	$2,048	$2,048	$2,048 $2,338	
Golf/Swimming Head	$4,145	$4,340	$4,568 $5,704	
Cross Country Head	$4,461	$4,800	$5,001 $5,704	
APPENDIX C
Hyde Project Agreement
WHEREAS, the New Haven Board of Education (the “Board”) desires to continue for the students of New Haven and surrounding towns a special magnet school modeled after the Hyde School of Bath, Maine (the “Hyde School”); and
WHEREAS, the Board and the New Haven Federation of Teachers, AFT (the “Federation”) desire to set forth their agreements and understandings regarding said school;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereby agree as follows:
1. For the period from July 2003 through June 2006, the compensation and the terms and conditions of employment of teachers who are employed to teach full-time at the Hyde School (“teachers”) shall include the following:
a.	Compensation - In addition to the salary as set forth in the parties’ collective bargaining agreement, teachers shall receive an annual stipend, which shall be paid in ten (10) equal installments on the last day of each month from September through June of each school year.
For the 2003-2004 school year, said annual stipend shall be Twelve Thousand Five Hundred ($12,500.00) Dollars.
For the 2004-2005 school year, said annual stipend shall be Thirteen Thousand ($13,000.00) Dollars.
For the 2005-06 school year, said annual stipend shall be Thirteen Thousand Five Hundred Twenty ($13,520.00) Dollars.
b.	Summer In-Service Program - Summer training will take place either in Bath, Maine or at a site to be determined in Connecticut, for a period not to exceed three (3) full weeks.
1.	Each teacher shall be paid One Thousand ($1,000.00) Dollars for each full week of training in which he/she participates.
2.	The Board agrees to provide lodging and meals to teachers while in Maine, and either to provide or to pay teachers’ travel expenses at the rate of $0.30 per mile for travel to and from Bath, Maine.
52
53

c.	Work Day - The work day for teachers will be 8:00 am. - to 5:00 p.m.
d.	Student/Parent/Teacher Programs - Teachers shall participate in activities involving students and/or parents and/or other teachers and administrators one (1) evening per month during the regular school year. In addition, Teachers shall participate in school activities onthree (3) weekends during the regular school year and one weekend every other year. These week ends shall consist of the following:
Two (2) Family Weekends - every year. Friday - 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Saturday - 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 Noon. No overnight stay.
One (1) Faculty Retreat Weekend - every year. Friday - 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Saturday - 8:00 am. - 5:00 p.m.
This is an overnight retreat, however, teachers may opt not to stay overnight at the retreat site. Teachers will be involved in planning the retreat.
One (1) Parent Retreat Weekend - every two years. Friday - 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. Saturday - All day Sun day - 12:00 Noon
This is an overnight retreat. Teachers will be involved in planning the retreat.
All teachers will participate in the Advisory Groups which shall be held during the regularly scheduled school day. Once teachers have completed the initial three week training period, they will participate in a two day staff development session each year during the summer. For the 1996-97 school year the staff development session shall be one day and will be held the day before school is scheduled to open.
e.	Athletics Programs - The Athletic Director shall be compensated as is the practice in the comprehensive high schools and shall be released from one teaching class per day. The person who fills this position shall not be in the extended day program.
Coaches for varsity athletics shall be compensated according to the salary schedule in the contract negotiated between the Board and the N.H.F.T. When a teacher is not coaching, he/she may opt to participate in the extended day program. If such option is exercised, the teacher shall be paid one-third or two-thirds of the stipend as the case may be.
f.	Extended Day Program Teachers presently employed at the Hyde School may opt not to participate in the extended day program. If a teacher opts not to participate in the extended day program, such teacher shall participate in all other activities negotiated in this agreement and shall be paid the negotiated hourly rate for the once per month neighborhood meetings, family weekends and summer staff development. Such teachers shall be paid a stipend of Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) for attendance at the Faculty Retreat and Four Hundred Dollars ($400.00) for attendance at the Parent Retreat.
g.	Teaching Load - Teachers shall teach five (5) classes per day. In addition, teachers shall fully participate in the Hyde School sports, performing arts, community service and work-study programs. The parties shall work cooperatively to resolve any disputes which may arise under Section 6 of Article II of the parties’ collective bargaining agreement; provided that any such disputes which cannot be resolved at the building level shall be referred to the Labor-Management Committee below.
h.	Preparation Periods and Lunch - Each teacher shall be provided with a preparation period and a duty-free lunch period daily.
i.	Hyde School will have a functioning S.P.M.T. which will be composed of a representative group of teachers, administrators and parents as per Board of Education policy.
2.	As part of their negotiations over a successor agreement to their current collective bargaining agreement, the Board and the Federation shall negotiate concerning the compensation and terms and conditions of employment of teachers for the period after June 30, 1999.
3	The Board and the Federation understand that the Hyde School pilot program will be an voluntary one. Therefore, during the period from July, 1996 through June, 1999, the Board and the Federation agree that they shall participate in a Hyde-Project Labor-Management Committee (the “Committee”). The Committee shall meet monthly during said period so that the parties may bring to one another’s attention any concerns which they may have concerning the school’s program. The Committee shall be composed of three (3) representatives of each party.
54
55


4. The Board agrees that this agreement applies solely to the Hyde School and that the compensation and the terms and conditions of employment set forth herein
may not be applied to any other school operated by the Board without prior negotiations with the Federation.
APPENDIX.D
Appendix D
Sound School Contract Agreement
I. In accordance with State Board of Education Regulations, Section 10-6-4, Vocational Aquaculture Teachers at the Aquaculture Center of The Sound School shall be hired on a twelve-month basis. For the purposes of description in this Appendix, Aquaculture Teachers shall be those who:
A.	Teach no fewer than four periods of Agriculture/ Aquaculture Science or Agriculture/Aquaculture Technology courses.
B.	Are certified or certifiable in Vocational Aquaculture under Connecticut State Statute 10-145d-468, or hold a 041 Vocational Agriculture Certificate.
C.	Have a minimum of three (3) years occupational experience in marine fisheries, natural management resources, or agri/aquaculture/marine trades related to their assigned curriculum/instructional areas.
D.	Hold a valid grade-level appropriate Connecticut Teacher’s Certificate.
II. The compensation and the terms and conditions of employment of Aquaculture Teachers who are employed to teach full time at the Aquaculture Center (the “Teacher(s)”) at The Sound School shall include the following:
A.	Compensation — In addition to the salary as set forth in the parties’ collective bargaining agreement, Teachers shall receive an annual stipend, which shall be paid in ten equal installments on the last day of each month from September through June of each school year, as follows:
For the 2003-2004 school year said annual stipend shall be Twelve Thousand Five Hundred ($12,500.00) Dollars.
For the 2004-2005 school year said annual stipend shall be Thirteen Thousand ($13,000.00) Dollars.
For the 2005-2006 school year said annual stipend shall be Thirteen Thousand Five Hundred Twenty ($13,520.00) Dollars.
B.	Summer Occupational Experience Supervision — Summer Supervised Experience (SOE) Programs will take place on site at the Sound School or at a site to be determined by the SOE Program Coordinator, for a period not to exceed four (4) full weeks.
56
57
(i)	Each teacher shall be paid One Thousand ($1,000.00) Dollars for each full week of the SOE Program in which he/she participates.
(ii)	No lodging or meal expenses will be provided to teachers under this agreement for the summer SOE Program.
C.	Work Day - The workday for teachers at The Sound School not participating in the Aquaculture program will be in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement. For those teachers in the Aquaculture program, the day will be nine hours in length, beginning with each individual’s morning duty. Monitoring and assignment of the extra duties here described shall lie within the purview of the SPMT.
D.	Summer Supervised Occupational Experience (SOE) Program - In accordance with State Board of Education Regulations, Section 10-64-2, teachers in the Aquaculture program will work twenty days over the summer (between the last day of school in June and the first day of school in the fall), for the purposes of:
*	Advising FFA meetings and activities
*	Contacting new students
*	Identification of job shadowing, internships
and employment opportunities
*	Maintaining program and facility equipment
*	Supervising of aquaculture experience programs
*	Supervising of school laboratories and shop
spaces
*	Staff development workshops/training
In addition, teachers will participate in two (2) VbAg in-service training days during the period between July 1 and June 30 of every contract year.
E.	Non-School FFA and Vocationally-Related Activities - Teachers shall participate in ten (10) days of non-school-day FFA and vocationally-related training activities. These activities shall occur on weekends or school vacation days, and teachers will be given sufficient notice as to the dates of the activities. The activities include, but are not limited to:
i.	State and regional Aquaculture/Agriculture competitions
ii.	FFA Competitions
iii.	SOE Program activities/projects
iv.	Job site visits
v.	Adult education program instruction
vi.	Overnight field trips/boat trips
Compensation: Paid hourly as based on New Haven’s Certified Teacher’s hourly rate.
F.	Teaching Load/Responsibilities - As per the collective bargaining agreement, with the additional stipulation that teachers in the Aquaculture program will:
1.	Participate in the FFA Advisory Program, which shall be held during the regularly scheduled school day.
2.	Be responsible for the set-up and maintenance of labs, shops, tank systems, filtration, pumps and other program and facility equipment in their assigned curriculum/instructional areas.
G.	Aquaculture Program - Teachers currently employed at The Sound School may, at the beginning of each school year (July 1st - June 30th) covered by this contract, opt not to participate in the Aquaculture Program as here stated. Such decision must be rendered in writing to the teacher’s administrator by May 1st of the year preceding each school year in question. The responsibilities of such teachers shall be as described in Section I, Part C of this Appendix, and their compensation will thus be as per the collective bargaining agreement.
H.	As part of their negotiations over a successor agreement to the current collective bargaining agreement, the Board and the Federation shall negotiate concerning the compensation and terms and conditions of employment.
I.	The Board agrees that this agreement applies solely to the Aquaculture Center at The Sound School and that the compensation and the terms and conditions of employment set forth herein may not be applied to any other school operated by the Board without prior negotiations with the Federation.
58
59
Appendix E
		City of New Haven Benefit Matrixes				
	NEW OPTION (BC-2)	CURRENT OPTION (BC-1)	NEW OPTION (CP-2)	CURRENT OPTION (CP-1)
BENEFIT				
					1		
Inpatient	All hospital admissions require pre-cert	All hospital admissions require pre-cert	All hospital admissions require pre-cert	All hospital admissions require pre-cert
General/Medical/Surgical/ Maternity (Semi-private)	$250 Per Admission Copay	$0 Per Admission Copay	$250 Per Admission Copay	$100 Per Admission Copay
Ancillary Services (Medication, Supplies)	Covered	Covered	Covered	Covered
MH Psychiatric Biological	$250 Per Admission Copay	$0 Per Admission Copay	$250 Per Admission Copay	$100 Per Admission Copay
MH Psychiatric Non Biological	$250 Per Admission Copay	60 Days per Calander Year	$0 Per Admission Copay 60 Days per Calander Year	$250 Per Admission Copay	60 Days per Calander Year	Ex- cess Days Covered as OON	$100 Per Admission Copay 60 Days per Calander Year	Ex- cess Days Covered as OON
Substance Abuse/Detox	$250 Per Admission Copay 45 Days per Calander Year	$0 Per Admission Copay 45 Days per Calander Year	$250 Per Admission Copay	45 Days per Calander Year	Ex-	$100 Per Admission Copay 45 Days per Calander Year	Ex-
Rehabilitative	$250 Per Admission Copay	60 Days per Calander Year	$0 Per Admission Copay	60 Days per Calander Year	$250 Per Admission Copay	$100 Per Admission Copay
Skilled Nursing Facility	$250 Per Admission Copay	90	$0 Per Admission Copay	$250 Per Admission Copay	60	$100 Per Admission Copay	
OUTPATIENT HOSPTIAL					
Outpatient Surgery	Fa- cility Charges (Prior Authori-zatoin Required)	$100 copay	$0 copay	$100 copay	$0 copay	
MH Psychiatric	Bio- logical	$15 Copay	$10 Copay	$15 Copay	$10 Copay	
MH Psychiatric Non Biological	$15 Copay per Visit	Up to 40 visits per Calander Year	$10 Copay	Up to 40 visits per Calander Year	$15 Copay per Visit Up to 30 visits per Calander Year/Com-bined	$10 Copay per Vis- it	Up to 30 visits per Calander Year/Combined	
Substance Abuse/Detox	$15 Copay per Visit Up to 40 visits per Calander Year	$10 Copay Up to 40 visits per Calander Year	$15 Copay per Visit	Up to 30 visits per Calander Year	Ex- cess Days covered as OON	$ 10 Copay per Visit	U p to 30 visits per Calander Year	Ex- cess Days covered as OON	
Diagnostic Lab & X-ray MRI, CT	Covered	MRI/CAT $0 copay	Covered	MRI/CAT $0 copay	Covered	Covered	
Pre-Admission Testing	Covered	Covered	Covered	Covered	
EMERGENCY CARE					
Emergency Room	$75 Copay (waived if admitted)	$50 Copay (waived if admitted)	$75 Copay (waived if admitted)	$0 copay	
Urgent Care	$50 Copay	$25 Copay	$25 Copay	$0 Copay	
Walk-in Centers	$15 copay	$10 copay	$15 copay	$10 copay	
Ambulance	No Charge	Maximum: Land - $500; Air - $4000 per trip	100% Covered	Maxi- mum: Land - $500; Air - $4000 per trip	100% Covered	Maxi- mum: Land - $500; Air - $4000 per trip	100% covered	
					_____________
			City of New Haven Benefit Matrixes					
	NEW OPTION (BC-2)	CURRENT OPTION (BC-1)	NEW OPTION (CP-2)	CURRENT OPTION (CP-1)	
BENEFIT					
PREVENTATIVE CARE		 ^^^y..".':.....'.^.':'‘^<,.'.f. ’'-’<{'7 ', ' A/A'A;, < ','> ~k/','/' t''",.'-'		V'-'-J'Vs' '< ?‘"7	A' .				"
					
Pocbatnc	(age- based schedule)	$0 for child up to age 12 $15 for ages 13 thru 22	$0 for child up to age 12 $15 for ages 13 thru 22	$15 copay	$10 copay	
	6 exams birth to 1 year of age 6 exams 1 to 5 years of age 1 exam every 2 years - 6 to 10 years of age	1 exam every year -11 to 21 years of age	6 exams birth to 1 year of age 6 exams 1 to 5 years of age 1 exam every 2 years - 6 to 10 years of age	1 exam every year -11 to 21 years of age	Monthly - birth to 5 months of age	Every other month - 6 to 11 months	Every 3 months -12 months to 23 months Every 6 months - 24 months to 35 months	Once a year - 3 to 17 years of age	Monthly - birth to 5 months of age	Every other month - 6 to 11 months	Every 3 months -12 months to 23 months	Every 6 months - 24 months to 35 months	Once a year - 3 to 17 years of age	
Adult —	$15 copay	$0 copay	$15 copay	$10 copay	
		Once every 5 years - 22 to 29 years of age	Once every 3 years - 30 to 39 years of age Once every 2 years - 40 to 49 years of age	Once every 5 years - 22 to 29 years of age Once every 3 years - 30 to 39 years of age Once every 2 years - 40 to 49 years of age	Once every 3 years -18 to 29 years of age Once every 2 years - 30 to 49 years of age Once every year - 50 or over years of age	Once every 3 years -18 to 29 years of age Once every 2 years - 30 to 49 years of age Once every year - 50 or over years of age	
		$25 copay	$25 copay Maternity First Visit Only	$0 copay	$15 copay $15 copay Maternity First Visit Only	$10 copay	$10 copay Maternity First Visit Only	
	1 baseline - 35 to 39 years of age	Once every year - 40 or over years of age In addition - as medically necessary	1 baseline - 35 to 39 years of age	Once every year - 40 or over years of age In addition - as medically necessary	1 baseline - 35 to 39 years of age Once every year - 40 or over years of age In addition - as medically necessary	1 baseline - 35 to 39 years of age Once every year - 40 or over years of age In addition - as medically necessary	
—					
Vision	Covered once every 24 months (no referral required)	$15 copay	$0 copay	$15 copay	$20 copay	

Hearing	bcreen- ing part of physical exam	$15 copay	$0 copay	$15 copay	$20 copay		
MEDICAL SERVICES		J	M.. 				■■
Medical Office Visit (OV)		 $15 copay for PCP $25 copay for Specialists	$5 copay PCP/ $10 copay Specialist	$15 copay	$10 copay	
	.	 Thfiraov	1CP- Excess Days - OON)	$15 copay	Unlimited Coverage	$10 copay	Un- limited Coverage	$15 copay	50 combined visit maximum	No prior authorization required	$0 copay	30 combined visit maximum	No prior authorization required	
opeecn merapy -	$15 copay	Unlimited Coverage	$10 copay Unlimited Coverage	$15 copay	50 combined visit maximum (CP-Excess Days - OON)	$10 copay	60 visit maximum	(CP-Ex- cess Days - OON)	
Outpatient Chiropractic	$15 copay	Unlimited Coverage		$10 copay Unlimited Coverage	$15 copay	Unlim- ited Coverage	$10 copay	Unlimited Coverage	
	$15 Copay for office visits and testing	No copay for injections 80 visits in 3 years	$10 Copay for office visits and testing	No copay for injections 60 visits in 2 years	$15 Copay for office visits and testing 80 visits in 3 years	$10 Copay for office visits and testing No copay for injections	
— Diagnostic Lab & X-ray	Covered	MRI/ CAT $0	Covered	MRI/ CAT $0	Covered	MRI/ CAT $0 copay	Covered	MRI/CAT $0 copay	
		 Ui « HiW I c	Covered	Covered	Covered	Covered	
Surgery Fees	Covered	Covered	Covered	Covered	
Office Surgery	Covered	Covered	Covered	Covered	
Outpatient MH/SA (no referral required)	$15 copay	$10 copay	$15 copay	$10 copay	
		___			City of New Haven Benefit Matrixes					—
	NEW OPTION (BC-2)	CURRENT OPTION (BC-1)	NEW OPTION (CP-2)	CURRENT OPTION (CP-1)	
BENEFIT					
OTHER SERVICES " ~				/			-,	\	\			i	
*Durable Medical Equipment	(Prior Authorization Required)	$1000 per Member per Year	Pri- or Authorization Required 20% copay	Restricted to certain items	$1000 per Member per Year Prior Authorization Required 20% copay	Restricted to certain items	Covered in Full - $100 Deductible	Covered in Full - $100 Deductible	
Prosthetics	$1000 per Member per Year	Pri- or Authorization Required 20% copay	$1000 per Member per Year Prior Authorization Required 20% copay	Covered in Full - $100 Deductible	Covered in Full - $100 Deductible	
Home Heath Care (Prior Authorization Required)	Covered	OON - $50 Ded & 20% Coinsurance	Covered	OON - $50 Ded & 20% Coinsurance	Covered OON - $50 Ded & 20% Coinsurance	Covered OON - $50 Ded & 20% Coinsurance	
Acupuncture		Not Covered	Not Covered	20 Visits per Calander Year	20 Visits per Calander Year	
Orthotics	Limited to Specific Items & Diagnosis	Limited to Specific Items & Diagnosis	Covered	Covered			
	Not Covered	Not Covered	Covered as OON	Covered as OON	—
Skilled Nursing Facility (CP-Excess Days - OON)	No Copay	Up to 90 Consecutive days	No Copay	Up to 90 Consecutive days	$250 Copay per Admission	Up to 60 Days per Calander Year	$100 Copay per Admission Up to 60 Days per Calander Year	
-Hospice	 (CP-Excess Days - OON) |	No Copay Coverage up to 6 months	No Copay Coverage up to 6 months	$250 Copay per Admission Coverage up to 6 months	$100 Copay per Admission Coverage up to 6 months	
Infertility	Phase 1: $15 OV copay Phase ll/lll: 50% coinsurance up to $5000 LT max	Phase I: $10 OV copay Phase ll/lll: 50% coinsurance up to $5000 LT max	$15 OV copay	$10 OV copay	
DEPENDENT ELIGIBIL- ITY					
Children/Dependents	To Age 25	To Age 25	To Age 25	To Age 25	
					
OUT OF NETWORK COST OF SHARES					
	1			$400/800/1200	$250/750/750	$400/$800/$1200	$200/$400/$400	
		—-	20%	20%	20%	20%	
		l-'	U-J	“	lL 1 ■	$800/$1600/$2400	$1500/$4500/$4500	$800/$1600/$2400	$600/$1200/$ 1200	
Lifetime Maximum		ln-Network--Unlimited	Out- of-Network--$1,000,000	In-Network-Unlimited Out-of-Network--$1,000,000	In-Network-Unlimited ' Out-of-Network-Unlimited	In-Network-Unlimited Out-of-Network-Unlimited	
					
Note for POS plans: A DME Rider can be purchased at an additional cost.					
Note for POS plans: Infertility and Preventative care are not covered OON; home health care OON subject to $50 deductible and 20% coinsurance.				>-	
This does not constitute the actual health plan or insurance policy. It is only a general description of the plan. Please refer to the plan documents.					
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS - 3 TIER PLAN
Unlimited
$5
$15
$25
ANNUAL MAX COPAYS
Tier 1 - Generic
Tier 2 - Listed Brand
Tier 3 - Non Listed Brand
MAIL ORDER COPAYS
90 Day supply (maintenance Medications)
Tier 1 - Generic
Tier 2 - Listed Brand
Tier 3 - Non Listed Brand
GENERIC
SUBSTITUTION
$10 $30
$50
Yes
Available
NATIONAL NETWORK
EMERGENCIES
NON PAR	Plan Pays 80% of Anthem Allowance
PHARMACIES
PHYSICIAN DISPENSING
Covered
Prescriptions may be written by Participating or Non Participating physicians
Tier 1: Generic Drugs - Refers to a prescription that is considered non proprietary and is not protected by a Trademark. It is required to meet the same bioequivalency test as the original brand name drug.
Tier 2: Listed Brand Name Drugs - The term “listed brand name” refers to a brand name prescription drug identified on the formulary by Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield as a prescription drug with a 2 Tier copay.
j Tier 3: Non Listed Brand Name Drugs - The term “non listed brand name” refers to a brand name prescription drug not identified on the formulary by Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield. Tier 3 copayment applies.
B