Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Wichita Unified Public School District 259 Board of Education and United Teachers of Wichita (UTW), American Federation of Teachers (AFT), AFL-CIO, Local 259 (2003)
K#: 830422
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu

WICHITA BOARD OF EDUCATION 2002-2003
Chip Gramke, President
Michael Kinard, Vice-President
Fran Crowley	Lynn Rogers
Connie Dietz	Jim Ward
Lanora Nolan
SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS
Winston Brooks
BOARD OF EDUCATION NEGOTIATING TEAM Thomas R. Powell
Chief Negotiator, Board Attorney
Ed Raymond
Assistant Superintendent, Human Resources
Wardell Bell
Principal, Curtis Middle School
Tammy Esposito
Principal, Levy Special Education Center
Bonnie Lanoue
Principal, Bryant Elementary School
Jim McNiece
Principal, Northeast Magnet High School
Charles Mosqueda*
Commercial Driving Education Specialist
UNITED TEACHERS OF WICHITA EXECUTIVE BOARD 2002-2003
Barbara Fuller, President Paul Babich, Vice-President
Linda Bell James Bortnick Kimberly Howard Vernon Jantz Connie Johnson Larry Landwehr
Kenneth Lippoldt Gary Mitchell Carol Nott Larry Peters Michael Scoville Mary Smith
UNITED TEACHERS OF WICHITA NEGOTIATING TEAM
Keith Welty, Co-negotiator
Greggory Jones, Co-negotiator*
Paul Babich* Hetty Bailey Pancho Bustos Barbara Fuller Cathie Hoopes Sara Jones*
Larry Landwehr
Ken Lippoldt Garald Michaud* Larry Peters Curtis Wilson
*WATC Team Members
Wichita Public Schools Unified School District 259 201 N. Water Wichita, Kansas 67202-1292
TEACHERS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT			ARTICLE VI:	CLASS SIZE REVIEW	
	Table of Contents			PROCEDURE		25
			Section A	Procedure		25
			ARTICLE VII:	TEACHER PROTECTION			26
		Page	Section A	Working Conditions		26
	PREAMBLE		. 1	Section B	Disciplinary Actions		26
			Section C	Disciplinary Meetings or	
ARTICLE I:	DEFINITIONS		. 1		Hearings		27
Section A	General Definitions		. 1	Section D	Solicitation		28
			Section E	Legal Action			28
ARTICLE II:	GENERAL			3	Section F	Compliance		28
Section A	Recognition		3	Section G	Property Damage		28
Section B	Management Rights		. 4			
Section C	Savings Clause		. 4	ARTICLE VIII:	PUPIL CONTROL		29
Section D	Nondiscrimination		. 4	Section A	Classroom		29
Section E	Closure Clause		. 4	Section B	Suspension, Expulsion		30
Section F	Waiver Clause		. 5	Section C	Physical Force		30
Section G	New Bargaining Unit Members..	. 5	Section D	Right to Grieve P5112		30
ARTICLE III:	PROFESSIONAL YEAR		. 5	ARTICLE IX:	TEACHER BENEFITS		30
Section A	Professional Year for Teachers...	. 5	Section A	Personal Injury Benefits		30
Section B	School Calendar		.. 7	Section B	State Retirement Participation		31
			(	Section C	Disability Income Protection		31
ARTICLE IV:	PROFESSIONAL DAY			.. 8	Section D	General Liability Coverage		32
Section A	Elements of the Day,		Section E	Life Coverage		33
	All Teachers		.. 8	Section F	Health Coverage		33
Section B	Elements of the Day,		Section G	Severance Payment		34
	Classroom Teachers		.. 9	Section H	Annuity Plan		34
Section C	Elements of the Day,		Section I	Mileage Allowance.		34
	All Teachers Except		Section J	Early Retirement		35
	Classroom Teachers		.. 10	Section K	Flexible Spending Acct Plan		35
Section D	Extra Duties				. 11	Section L	General		35
Section E	Time Schedules				. 11	Section M	Catastophic Emergency	
Section F	Supervision of Student Teachers .	. 12		Benefit Plan		36
Section G	Appeal		. 12			
Section H	Extended Day/Year Waiver		. 12	ARTICLE X.	LEAVES		37
			Section A	Temporary Leave		37
ARTICLE V.	TEACHER COMPENSATION...	. 13	Section B	Extended Leaves		41
Section A	Definition and Placement		. 13	Section C	Sabbatical Leaves		44
Section B	Salary Schedule		. 17	Section D	Family and Medical Leave		46
Section C	Method of Payment		. 18			
Section D	Supplemental Salary		. 18	ARTICLE XI:	TEACHER USE OF FACILITIES	47
Section E	Overload Teaching		. 22	Section A	Building		47
Section F	Contract Addendum		. 22	Section B	Equipment		47
Section G	Health Occupations		. 22	Section C	Announcements		47
Section H	Pay for Staffings		. 23	Section D	Procedures		47
Section I	Pay for Temporary		Section E	Posting Materials				48
	Substituting		. 23			
Section J	Longevity Pay		. 24	ARTICLE XII:	PROFESSIONAL RIGHTS AND	
Section K	Payroll Deductions		. 24		RESPONSIBILITIES		48
Section L	National Board Certification		. 25	Section A	General		48
Section M	Relocation		. 25	Section B	Rights and Responsibilities		48
			Section C	Nondelegable Board Power		50

ARTICLE XIII:	ACADEMIC FREEDOM............. 50
Section A	Academic Freedom............. 50
Section B	Instructional Materials...... 51
Section C	Outside Speakers............. 51
Section D	Professional Review.......... 51
Section E	Nondelegable Board Power..... 52
ARTICLE XIV:	TEACHER FILES................ 52
Section A	Teacher Files..............   52
ARTICLE XV:	STAFF QUALITY IMPROVEMENT SYSTEM........................... 54
Section A	General...................... 54
Section B	System Highlights............ 55
Section C	Continuous Growth Plan....... 56
Section D	Orientation Phase............ 59
Section E	Plan of Assistance........... 60
Section F	Continuous Improvement.......	61
Section G	Peer Consultant Program...... 62
ARTICLE XVI:	SCHOOL BUILDING COMMITTEE...................................  63
Section A	Purpose...................... 63
Section B	Organization................. 63
Section C	Bylaws....................... 64
Section D	General Rules................ 65
Section E	Teacher Governance Model..... 66
ARTICLE XVII:	UTW RIGHTS.................. 66
Section A	Exclusive Rights............. 66
Section B	Non-Exclusive Rights......... 67
ARTICLE XVIII:	REDUCTION AND RECALL....... 68
Section A	General...................... 68
Section B	Selection.................... 68
Section C	Notice....................... 69
Section D	Rights....................... 70
ARTICLE XIX:	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.......... 71
Section A	Purpose and Definitions...... 71
Section B	Time Limitations............. 71
Section C	Informal Level............... 72
Section D	Level One.................... 72
Section E	Level Two.................... 73
Section F	Level Three.................. 74
Section G	Rights of Representation..... 75
Section H	General Provisions........... 76
ARTICLE XX:	PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION.78

Section C:	Professional Year-Postsecondary
Teachers.................... 78
Section D:	Professional Day-Postsecondary
Teachers.................... 80
Section E:	Compensation - Postsecondary
Teachers.................... 81
Section F:	Pupil Control................ 83
Section G:	WATC Faculty Council......1.... 84
APPENDIX A:	CALENDAR, 2003-04............ 86
APPENDIX B:	WATC CALENDAR, 2003-04........ 88
The Wichita Public Schools does not discriminate | on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, handicap/disability, age or religion. Persons having inquiries may contact the ADA and Section 504 coordinator, 201 N. Water, Wichita, KS 67202, 973-4420.	_______________________________
ARTICLE XXI:	WICHITA AREA TECHNICAL COLLEGE-POSTSECONDARY. 78
Section A:	General....................... 78
Section B:	Deletions and Amendments/
Postsecondary Teachers........ 78

PREAMBLE
This master agreement sets forth herein terms and conditions of professional service for all employees employed by Unified School District 259 who are included in the bargaining unit as defined in the General Article of this agreement and shall remain in full force and effect beginning August1,2003, and ending July 31, 2004. Article IX, Teacher Benefits, may be reopened at any time during the contract year to negotiate Board contribution of premiums only in the event that the health fund reserves fall below eight and one-half (8.5) million dollars.
ARTICLE I:	DEFINITIONS
Section A: General Definitions
1.	School District or School System: Unified School District 259, Sedgwick County, Kansas.
2.	Board: Board of Education of Unified School District 259, Sedgwick County, Kansas.
3.	Superintendent: Superintendent of Schools of Unified School District 259, Sedgwick County, Kansas
4.	UTW: United Teachers of Wichita.
5.	Teacher: Any employee who is a member of the bargaining unit as defined in the General Article of this agreement.
6.	Classroom Teacher: A teacher whose major professional responsibility is the instruction of pupils and with whom pupils are based for pupil accounting purposes.
7.	Postsecondary Classroom Teacher: A classroom teacher whose major professional responsibility is providing services to adult higher education students or secondary students on a Wichita Area Technical College campus.
8.	Immediate Supervisor: The immediate supervisor of a teacher is the building base principal unless otherwise designated by the teacher's job description. In case of a grievance, the immediate supervisor shall be the affected administrator.
9.	School Building Committee: The committee formed at each school attendance center as set forth in the School Building Committee Article.
10.	Professional Day: The period set forth in the Professional Day Article.
11.	Base Contract: The teacher's basic contract for assigned services and for a designa ted'number of contract days, and which contract incorporates the terms of this agreement.
12.	Contract Addendum: A teacher's contract(s) for assigned services for contract days in an assignment which is an extension of the duties assigned under the teacher's base contract.
13.	Supplemental Contract: A teacher's contract(s) for assigned and accepted services during hours that are in addition to those paid for in the teacher's base contract or in contract addendum(s).
14.	School in Session or School Day: Those hours during which students are regularly required to attend classes.
15.	Contract Year: That fiscal year during which a
complete set of contract days are normally worked, usually falling between August 1 and July 31.
16.	School Year: That period of time when school is in session as set forth in the school calendar adopted by the Board.
17.	Professional Year: The number of contract days annually for which a teacher is paid and their placement on the school calendar.
18.	Contract Days: Those days during a professional year on which assignments can be made for which a teacher is paid to work.
19.	Daily Rate: One, divided by the number of days in the teacher's annual base contract, times his/her base salary.
20.	Nonteaching Professional Days: Those contract days for assigned services during which school is not in session.
1
2
21.	Nonworking Days: Those days, Monday through Friday, interspersed between the first and last contract days of the contract year on which the teacher is not required to be on duty.
22.	Administrator: Any person employed by the Board in an administrative capacity who is fulfilling duties for which an administrator's certificate is required.
23.	Speech Language Pathologist; A trained professional who evaluates and treats students with communication disabilities. The speechlanguage pathologist is licensed by the State of Kansas, Department of Health and Environment and holds a certificate from the Kansas State Board of Education.
24.	Wichita Area Technical College (WATC): Wichita Area Technical College (WATC), Unified School District #259, Sedgwick County, Kansas.
ARTICLE II:	GENERAL
Section A:	Recognition
Paragraph 1: The Board of Education recognizes the United Teachers of Wichita for the purposes of professional negotiations under K.S.A. 72-5413, et. seq. as the exclusive representative for the teachers unit of the professional employees.
Paragraph 2: The bargaining unit shall be defined as those contract employees of the Board of Education in positions which require a certificate issued by the state Board of Education or employed in a professional, educational or instructional capacity by the Board of Education, including nurses, social workers and High School Junior Reserve Officer Training Corp Instructors (JROTC), but shall not mean any such person who is an administrative employee or administrative intern.
Paragraph 3: The Board and the UTW acknowledge that the agreement herein set forth has been adopted following a good faith effort by both parties to reach agreement between representatives of the UTW and the Board as provided in K.S.A. 72-5413 et. seq.
Section B:	Management Rights
Paragraph 1: The UTW acknowledges that the Board and the Superintendent have certain exclusive statutory rights and responsibilities.
Section C:	Savings Clause
Paragraph 1: Any paragraph of this agreement or any action pursuant thereof which is contrary to law shall be null and void, but the remainder of the agreement or contract shall remain in full force and effect.
Paragraph 2: Any previously adopted policies, practices, procedures, customs, rules, regulations or writings of the Board which are in conflict with this agreement shall be superseded by the terms set forth herein. The Board shall not amend this agreement, nor make nor execute decisions or policies which violate this agreement.
Section D:	Nondiscrimination
Paragraph 1: In all hiring and assigning of employees and in all compensation, benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment, the school district shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws with regard to nondiscrimination on account of race, color, religion, sex, age, handicap, national origin or ancestry. Insofar as is reasonably possible, the Superintendent shall strive to maintain an equitable balance in each category of employment with regard to race, age, and sex.
Section E:	Closure Clause
Paragraph 1: Both the Board and the UTW acknowledge that all mandatory subjects of negotiations which either party proposed to negotiate have been negotiated and neither party has any right to negotiate further on these or any other subjects during the term of this agreement except by mutual consent.
Paragraph 2: This agreement may be amended at any time by mutual consent. However, no amendment to this agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing and ratified by both the Board and the UTW
3
4
Section F:	Waiver Clause
Paragraph 1: The UTW recognizes that it has the right to negotiate any and all terms and conditions of professional services as set forth in K.S. A. 72-5413 (1) and judicial interpretations thereof. Regardless of that right, the UTW hereby waives its right to negotiate any such term or condition which has not been noticed, negotiated, agreed, set forth herein, and ratified by both parties. The UTW expressly agrees thatthe Board and administration have the exclusive right to control and change such terms and conditions which have not been negotiated by policy, rule, procedure, regulation, or decision during the term of this agreement.
Section G:	New Bargaining Unit Members
Paragraph 1: Upon reemployment in or transfer to the teachers bargaining unit, teachers will be subject to decisions by the Human Resources Division concerning temporary leave, longevity payments, and other terms and conditions of employment. Such decisions shall be based on relevant provisions of applicable policies, procedures, and employment agreements in addition to the past practices of the district, maintenance of equity among employees, and the intent of the applicable language involved.
ARTICLE III: PROFESSIONAL YEAR
Section A:	Professional Year for Teachers
Paragraph 1: Contract Days
(a)	The base contract days for teachers for each contract
year, exclusive of those in supplemental or contract addendums, shall be 186 days, consisting of teaching and non-teaching professional days as determined by the Board. The base contract days for teachers at Colvin, Payne, Dodge, and Jardine schools; and Samuel E. Spaght Accelerated Magnet Academy for each contract year shall be up to 210 days so long as those schools remain on an extended year schedule. The base contract for High School Junior Reserve Officer Training Corp (JROTC) instructors shall be for twelve (12) months a year. High School JROTC instructors shall observe as nonworking days the days on the calendar as set forth in Appendix A that are identified as holidays and recess days. Additional nonworking days, to a maximum of 20 days, shall
be arranged with and approved by the base principal and shall normally be scheduled outside the school year. High School JROTC instructors shall be entitled to such additional nonworking days commencing August 1 the second year of their employment. If a High School JROTC instructor starts work after August 1 of a year, then commencing the upcoming August 1, the instructor shall be entitled to a prorated number of nonworking days based on the time period worked. Those nonworking days not used by August 1 of each year shall be lost as of each August 1. The Superintendent and the UTW President will review all requests submitted to extend the school year prior to April 1 of each year. Their joint recommendation shall be subject to Board approval. All requests must be first supported by 80 percent of the affected staff as determined by a secret ballot election conducted by the UTW. Staff who do not support the extended year concept shall have the right to transfer. Such contract days shall be scheduled on weekdays, Monday through Friday, between the first and last workday of each contract year. In the event that schools are closed for one or two days due to inclement weather, the number of base contract days shall be reduced by such one or two days.
Paragraph 2: New Teacher Orientation
Prior to the teachers report day, the administration may schedule up to three (3) days for the purpose of orientating newly employed teachers. Such days shall be used for staff development, diversity training and other orientation activities designed by the administration. One of the days will continue to be presented in the format used during the 2000-01 year, and UTW shall be given the opportunity to present items of mutual interest on this day. At least one hour will be given to UTW during the other two days for UTW to present items of mutual interest. UTW shall also be given the opportunity to present items of mutual interest on one day to extended school year teachers that do not participate in the regular new teacher orientation. New teacher orientation for extended year teachers may be shortened to two days by mutual agreement between the Administration and UTW. UTW shall participate with the administration as to preparing and designing the new teacher orientation program. Any teacher who is required to attend shall receive his/her
5
6
HHMW
daily rate for attendance on the day that follows the 2000-01 format and shall receive $12 per hour for attendance on the other two days. Payment shall be made on or before September 15. Partial days shall be prorated. Compensation shall be paid in accordance with regular payroll procedures. Teachers shall select a fringe benefit option. The teacher shall have up to three succeeding days (Monday-Friday) to change the selection.
Paragraph 3: Workshop Inservice Training Day During each contract year, attendance centers shall be guaranteed at least one day between October 1 and March 15 on any Monday through Friday for the purpose of a workshop or inservice training. The Superintendent shall schedule the time to be taken.
Paragraph 4: Each teacher shall have one and one-half uninterrupted days in his/her classroom during the pre-school teacher report days. In order to accommodate other building/district inservice requirements, it may be necessary to divide these days into three one-half (1/2) day segments.
Paragraph 5: For the school year 2003-04, teachers working in buildings observing the heat plan will be provided two half days of uninterrupted time to work in their classrooms. Additional half days of uninterrupted time will be provided for teachers to work in their classrooms on the October and March district staff development days. However, if the teacher's school is involved in a QPA or NCA final accreditation year cycle, the principal may use either the October or March day for QPA/ NCA visitation purposes. Teachers shall be provided one full day of uninterrupted time at the end of the second and fourth nine-week grading periods.
Section B:	School Calendar
Paragraph 1: The school calendar adopted by the Board is set forth herein as Appendix A. The WATC school calendar adopted by the Board is set forth herein as Appendix B.
ARTICLE IV: PROFESSIONAL DAY
Section A:	Elements of the Day, All Teachers
Paragraph 1: The ending time of the school day in each building shall be seven (7) hours and ten (10) minutes after the beginning time. The Superintendent and the UTW President will review all requests submitted to extend the school day prior to April 1 of each year. Their joint recommendation shall be subject to Board approval. All requests must be first supported by 80 percent of the affected staff as determined by a secret ballot election conducted by the UTW. Staff who donot support the extended day concept shall have the right to transfer. Teachers shall be present during those hours when they have an assigned responsibility. Teachers must notify the building principal or designee when they will be out of the building while school is in session.
Paragraph 2: Teachers shall attend individual conferences with administrators at reasonable times but in no case later than the teacher's next conference/preparation period.
Paragraph 3: Teachers shall attend necessary staff meetings at the direction of the base school principal or district office program administrators. Normally, teachers shall be given at least 48 hour notice of such meetings. Normally, not more than two (2) total building staff meetings shall be held per calendar month and teachers shall not be required to attend longer than 60 minutes per meeting.
Paragraph 4: Teachers shall attend pupil and parent conferences when necessary including reasonable requests from a pupil or parent.
Paragraph 5: Teachers shall be present in and around the building for a minimum of ten (10) minutes before and after the school day. This time shall be used for the purpose of preparations, conferences, and supervision of pupils as directed by the principal.
Paragraph 6: Teachers shall make complete and adequate preparation to fulfill their responsibility to pupils.
Paragraph 7: Teachers shall accomplish necessary administrative work directly related to their assignments.
8
7
Paragraph 8: Teachers may be required to collect and transmit money. Teachers shall exercise reasonable care to assure that money collected will not be lost. Reasonable effort will be made to keep money collection by teachers to a minimum and to expedite the collection process. Each teacher who collects monies shall be provided building and district policies concerning the collection of money.
Paragraph 9: Teachers shall not be required to transport pupils to or from activities which take place away from the school building except where such transportation would be a normal responsibility of a particular position and/or condition of employment under a supplemental contract. However, a teacher may do so voluntarily with the advance approval of the building principal.
Paragraph 10: On nonteaching professional days, teachers shall be present for seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours including the lunch period. An authorized administrator may reduce such time requirement.
Paragraph 11: Teachers shall attend up to three (3) evening activities designated as mandatory by the base school principal. Open House will be one of the mandatory evening meetings. The remaining two evening meetings shall be scheduled with prior written notice. Such meetings shall be of useful purpose and teachers shall not be required to attend longer than two (2) hours per meeting. Additional mandatory evening activities may be designated upon a majority affirmative vote conducted by secret ballot of the teachers.
Paragraph 12: All teachers shall be guaranteed at least one 40-minute, duty-free lunch period per day.
Paragraph 13: Instructional/Curriculum support will be made available to teachers who have students mainstreamed into their classes.
Section B:	Elements of the Day, Classroom Teachers
Paragraph 1: Each full-time classroom teacher and special education teacher shall have a schedule which normally provides at least 240 minutes per five day week for conferences and preparations. In grades one through five and full-time kindergartens, this time shall occur in not less than 30
9
minute periods. In half-day kindergartens and pre-kindergartens, this time shall occur in not less than 20 minute periods.
Paragraph 2: The teacher shall make his/her lesson plans and any other material which the teacher is using available to the principal upon request. Lesson plans shall be based upon standards but are required only in sufficient detail to provide guidance to the teacher.
Paragraph 3: When any class assigned to the teacher does not meet for any reason, the teacher may be assigned other professional duties during the classtime.
Paragraph 4: When a teacher is absent, the teacher shall have available for the substitute lesson plans in sufficient detail to provide adequate guidance to the substitute, class lists, and seating charts where appropriate. In the event an absence exceeds three (3) days, the teacher shall make the grade book available to the substitute upon request.
Section C:	Elements of the Day, All Teachers Except
Classroom Teachers
Paragraph 1: The base school principal shall determine the teacher's daily time schedule after giving consideration to any schedule which the teacher may have suggested and to the teacher's need for conference/preparation time. Teachers shall also be present during those additional hours required to perform their particular assignments. Teachers who in one day serve multiple buildings with different starting times shall not be required to have a permanent schedule which would exceed the normal workday for non-classroom teachers.
Paragraph 2: Teachers shall attend evening activities related to their particular assignments as designated by the base school principal.
Paragraph 3: Each full-time elementary music teacher, elementary physical education teacher, elementary library media specialist, and elementary art teacher shall have a schedule which normally provides approximately 240 minutes per five day week for conferences and preparations. This time shall occur in not less than 20 minute periods.
10
Paragraph 4: Library media specialists will not be required to supervise study halls while carrying out their regular assignments as library media specialists.
Paragraph 5: Except for an emergency situation or implementation of the building emergency plan, teachers for which a personnel shortage requires a portion of those services to be contracted out, shall not be required to serve as a temporary substitute or to supervise students during lunch, recess, passing periods, assemblies, study hall or before or after school.
Section D:	Extra Duties
Paragraph 1: While participation in extra activities including inservice and committee activities beyond the professional day may be encouraged by the Board or administration, the same will be voluntary in nature unless required by the responsibilities as set forth in Sections A, B, or C above, or unless required by the Supplemental Salary Section of the Teacher Compensation Article.
Paragraph 2: Regular duties assigned in addition to the responsibilities set forth should be compensated and set forth in a Supplemental Salary Schedule, and once compensation is so set, accepted and added to a Supplemental Salary Schedule as set forth in the Teacher Compensation Article, such duties shall be fully performed in a professional manner.
Section E:	Time Schedules
Paragraph 1: Teachers shall work in accordance with established time schedules. Such schedules shall include the lunch time(s) and, in some buildings, the number of and times for teaching periods.
Paragraph 2: Permanent changes in a school's normal time schedule may be proposed by the principal or the School Building Committee. Under normal circumstances, changes should be proposed no later than April 1 for the following school year. Such proposed changes shall be submitted to the School Building Committee which shall be responsible for determining the degree of acceptance by teachers who would be affected. The findings of the committee shall be reported to the principal in a timely manner. The principal
11
shall give consideration to such findings prior to making his/her decision and the School Building Committee shall be notified in writing of that decision. If the School Building Committee does not give written notice of its disagreement with the principal's decision within five (5) contract days, the principal's decision shall be implemented.
Paragraph 3: If the School Building Committee notifies the principal within five (5) contract days of its disagreement with his/her decision, the elementary or secondary District Schedule Committee, each composed of three (3) members appointed by the UTW and three (3) members appointed by the Superintendent, shall meet and permit the School Building Committee, the principal, and other interested parties an opportunity to be heard regarding the proposed school changes. The District Schedule Committee shall make a timely recommendation to the Superintendent. The Superintendent shall give consideration to the recommendation of the District Schedule Committee prior to making his/her decision. The Superintendent's decision shall be implemented.
Section F:	Supervision of Student Teachers
Paragraph 1: Supervision of a student teacher shall be voluntary. Teachers shall normally be notified of a student teacher assigned at least two (2) weeks prior to the student teacher's introduction to the classroom. The school system shall provide the cooperating teacher with whatever materials it deems appropriate. The cooperating teacher shall be responsible for being knowledgeable of the contents of any such materials provided.
Section G:	Appeal
Paragraph 1: In the event an administrative decision is made concerning the professional day, such decision shall remain in effect pending determination under the grievance procedure.
Section H:	Extended School Day and School Year Waiver
Paragraph 1: At its discretion, the administration may extend the school day and year at Colvin, Payne, Dodge, and Jardine Schools; and Samuel E. Spaght Accelerated Magnet Academy for up to eight and
12
one-half (81/2) hours per day and 210 days per year. Teachers shall be compensated for the additional hour each day by receiving a supplement at Level C, Level D, or Level H to be determined by the principal. The additional hour shall normally be used for planning, conferences, professional development, and preparations.
ARTICLE V: TEACHER COMPENSATION
Section A: Definition and Placement
Paragraph 1: Each teacher employed by the Board shall be compensated for the professional services which he/she renders during the professional days for the term of a contract year. This compensation shall be termed salary and the amount of such salary each teacher receives for a contract year shall be determined by his/her placement on the Teachers Salary Schedule (Section B, Paragraph 1, of this Article).
(a)	A fractional part of a year's service shall be paid on the basis that the number of contract days worked bears to the total number of contract days in the contract year.
(b)	The base contract salary shall be prorated for any teacher who teaches less than full time.
Paragraph 2: The final judgment concerning the placement of any teacher on the salary schedule shall be determined by the Human Resources Division. Such judgments are not to be inconsistent with this Section.
Paragraph 3: General Provisions
(a)	Each teacher shall be eligible for and shall receive the highest salary to which his/her academic preparation and experience entitle him/her. All salary placements are subject to verification of experience and training and shall be adjusted in any direction for each school year to the level for which the teacher proves his/her entitlement on or before September 15 of each year. Experienced teachers beginning their employment after September 15 of a school year shall be placed on the track and step for which they qualified as of September 15 of that school year. Inexperienced teachers beginning their employment after September 15 of a school year shall be placed on Step 1 of the B. A. Track or on Step 1 of the track for
which they qualified as of September 15 of that school year, whichever is higher. Teachers employed full time for one full semester of a school year shall be given credit for one year of experience; however, one full semester of fulltime teaching experience obtained in each of two different years or school systems shall be combined and counted as one year of experience with adjustment in step placement made accordingly. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, teachers shall not move a step for the year 2003-04 but teachers eligible for step movement shall be guaranteed one step movement for the year 2004-05. The aforesaid sentence shall be automatically deleted in the 2004-05 Teachers Employment Agreement.
(b)	Subject to (a) above, the teacher qualifies for one (1) higher step for each full year of teaching experience under a contract with Unified School District 259, and for each year of extended or sabbatical leave when such leave is expressly to be so counted in the Leaves Article. However, any teacher who completes the previous school year on a Plan of Assistance and continues on that plan in the next school year will not qualify to advance to a higher step. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this agreement, upon successful completion of a Plan of Assistance, the teacher shall immediately move to the next step. This phrase "full year" as used in this subparagraph shall mean being under a base contract for 170 or more days within one contract year. No teacher will move more than one step in any year.
(c)	At the time of reemployment, a teacher who has been employed previously as a teacher under a contract with Unified School District 259 shall be placed in accordance with the salary provisions of the current Teachers Employment Agreement. However, no such teacher shall be placed on a lower numbered step than he/she was on at the time of the last day in base contract pay status of the most recent prior employment. Furthermore, if at that time the teacher was eligible for the next higher step in the subsequent contract year, the teacher shall be placed on that next higher step on the appropriate track at the time of employment. This step placement shall be adjusted as necessary to account for changes in salary placement procedures which may have occurred in the interim.
13
14
(d)	Any former teacher who is reemployed within twelve (12) months of the date of termination will have his/her temporary leave days that were accrued at the time of separation reinstated for up to a maximum of five (5) years for temporary leave that was accrued after March 31,1999 unless severance compensation has been paid for such leave.
Paragraph 4: Placement on Teachers Salary Schedule
(a)	Track
On the Teachers Salary Schedule (Section B, Paragraph 1, of this Article) each track (vertical column) represents an earned degree from an accredited institution of higher learning or additional earned graduate credit semester hours not already counted in an earned degree. Credit for salary purposes shall be given for only those graduate degrees and/or graduate hours as recognized and supervised by the graduate school of an accredited institution, unless otherwise expressly provided by this Section. Such institutions must have been accredited at the time the degree and/or hours were earned. The accreditation agency must be an agency approved by the Human Resources Division. To be eligible for a degree track, the teacher must have earned the degree that track specifies. His/her placement on an intermediate track higher than the degree track to which he/she is entitled is contingent upon his I her having earned the additional number of graduate semester hours which that track specifies for their equivalent in quarter hours or third hours. Such additional graduate hours may have been earned prior to the date of the teacher's latest degree, but must not have been used to satisfy degree hour requirements.
b)	Step
At the time of employment, each teacher shall be placed on the highest numbered step for which he/she qualifies in accordance with the column of the Teachers Salary Schedule entitled " Initial Placement." Credit will be given for teaching experience obtained in an accredited school system. Other relevant teaching experience may result in higher initial step placement as determined by the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources.
(c)	Social Workers
At the time of employment and subject to (b) above, full credit for specialized social work in a school program shall be given. Full credit for 15
clinical social work experience may be given, subject to approval by the Human Resources Division. For purposes of advancing to a higher track, graduate work undertaken must be approved by the appropriate supervisor and the Human Resources Division. Such approval will not be withheld arbitrarily. Credit for a masters degree shall be given only in the field of social work.	A
(d)	Health Services
At the time of employment and subject to (b) above, full credit for registered professional nursing experience in a school program shall be given. Full credit for registered professional nursing experience may be given, subject to approval by the Human Resources Division. Nondegree nurses shall be placed on the B.A. Track of the Teachers Salary Schedule and shall be ineligible for movement to any other track.
(e)	School Psychologists
At the time of employment and subject to (b) above, full credit for specialized work as a psychologist in a school program shall be given. Full credit for other clinical experience may be given, subject to approval by the Human Resources Division.
(f)	Speech-Language Pathologists
At the time of employment and subject to (b) above, full credit for speech-language services in a school program shall be given. Full credit for clinical experience as a speech-language pathologist may be given, subject to approval by the Human Resources Division.
(g)	Sixty Hour Master Degrees
Teachers who earn master degrees which required a minimum of sixty (60) graduate semester hours (or their equivalent in quarter hours or third hours) in their area of assigned responsibility shall qualify for placement on the MA + 30 Track of the Teachers Salary Schedule.
(h)	High School Junior Reserve Officer Training Corp Instructors (JROTC)
The salary for High School JROTC instructors shall be the amount set forth in Section B of the Teacher Salary Schedule in accordance with the salary provisions for other teachers multiplied by 221 times the daily rate of pay or the amount set as the minimum pay for High School JROTC instructors by the Federal government in
16
accordance with the Junior Reserve Officer Training Corp Act plus 3.545% of said amount, whichever amount is greater. High School JROTC instructors without a degree shall be placed on the BA track of the Teacher Salary Schedule.
Section B:	Teachers Salary Schedule
Paragraph 1: 2003-2004
Section C:	Method of Payment
Paragraph 1: For each contract year, except as otherwise provided by this agreement or law, the Board shall pay the base contract amount in not less than twelve (12) substantially equal installments paid at least once each month commencing in September of each school year.
Paragraph 2: So long as the law requires and notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this Section, any teacher to whom the continuing contract law applies, after completion of all his/ her contractual obligations, shall be paid no later than the last working day in June, the balance of his/ her contractual compensation in one payment upon his/her request therefor. Said request shall be in writing and filed with the Business/Financial Services Division no later than April 1 of the school year in and for which the request is first made. Such request shall remain in effect until revoked in writing by the teacher.
Section D:	Supplemental Salary
Paragraph 1: The term "supplemental salary" shall refer to payment for the assigned, accepted, and performed services under a supplemental contract as set forth in Paragraphs 4 and 10 of this Section.
Paragraph 2: All assignments for which supplemental salaries are paid are for a single year with subsequent reassignments made on the basis of recommendation of the building administrator or appropriate supervisor.
Paragraph 3: In the event new positions are created, such positions shall be added to the Supplemental Salary7 Schedule and placement determined by the Superintendent or his/her designee. The UTW shall be notified of such action.
Paragraph 4: Supplemental Salary Schedule 03-04
Level A: (.035)	$1,008
Area Music Leader - Elementary Class Head Sponsor - High Exploratory Team Leader - Middle Elementary Chair, 4 or more - Elementary Intramural Activities Sponsor - Middle Special Activities
Spirit Club Head Sponsor - Middle
17
18
03-04
Level B: (.055)	$1,584
Academic Core Team Leader, 3-4 - Middle
Bus Monitor
Instrumental Music Activities Leader - Middle
Pep Club Head Sponsor - High
Safety Patrol Sponsor - Elementary
Special Activities
Student Council Head Sponsor - Middle
T eacher-in-Residence
Vocal Music Activities Leader - Middle
Level C: (.075)	$2,160
Academic Bowl Sponsor - High
Academic Core Team Leader, 5 and above-
Middle
Cheerleader Head Sponsor - High
Detention Room Monitor - Middle or High
Forensic Coach - High
Newspaper Head Sponsor - High
Peer Consultant, Governing Board Member
Pompon Head Sponsor - High
Postsecondary Lead Sponsor -BPA,HOSA,VICA
Rater, Math Assessment
Rater, Reading Assessment
Rater, Social Studies Assessment
Rater, Writing Assessment
Social Worker Leader, 3 and above
Special Activities
Student Council Head Sponsor - High
Teacher-in-Charge - Elementary
Level D: (.095)	$2,735
Activity Bus Monitor
Debate Coach - High
Drama Activities Leader - High
Special Activities
Technology Go-To Specialist
Yearbook Head Sponsor - High
Level E: (.115)	$3,311
Department Chair, 3-6 - High
Head Counselor - High
Head Library Media Specialist - High
Inservice Presenter
Lunchroom/Cafeteria Monitor
Special Activities
Technology Go-To Specialist
Ticket Specialist - High
Vocal Music Activities Leader - High
03-04
Level F: (.135)	$3,887
Instrumental Music Activities Leader - High Junior Reserve Officer Training Corp Instructor (JROTC Commissioned) - High
Special Activities
Level G: (.155)	$4,463
Department Chair, 7-8 - High -Junior Reserve Officer Training Corp Instructor (JROTC Warrant Officer and Non-commissioned) - High
Leader, Math Table
Leader, Reading Table
Leader, Social Studies Table
Leader, Writing Table Special Activities
Level H: (.175)	$5,039
Special Activities
Level I: (.195)	$5,615
Assessment Leader, Math
Assessment Leader, Reading/Writing Assessment Leader, Social Studies Department Chair, 9-17 - High Special Activities
Level J: (.215)	$6,191
Department Chair, 18 and above - High Peer Consultant, Teacher
Special Activities
Paragraph 5: The index figures specified in the Supplemental Salary Schedule in Paragraph 4 shall be based on Step 1, Bachelor Track of the Teachers Salary Schedule. The dollar amounts for each supplemental salary in Paragraph 10 shall change the same percent as the percentage change in Step 1, Bachelor Track of the Teachers Salary Schedule.
Paragraph 6: At the discretion of the administration, departments may be formed and a department chair appointed. To determine the number of teachers in a department, the number of sections taught in that department shall be divided by one less than the number of teaching periods taught at the particular school. Any remaining major fraction of a teacher shall be counted as one. The service of teachers in study hall or other non-instructional duties shall not be counted as a section in determining the number of teachers in a department.
19
20

03-04 Head
$ 2,871 4,904 1,794 2,292 4,904 1,978 3,187 2,871 2,871
3,006 2,047
3,789 2,701
3,542
Paragraph 7: Department Chair Time
With approval of the building principal, a department chair may be provided with a substitute teacher to release the department chair from teaching responsibility in order that the department chair may fulfill responsibilities not otherwise possible.
Paragraph 8: Supplemental assignments shall be on a voluntary basis with no teacher being required to accept any such assignment.
Paragraph 9: Female coaches, otherwise qualified, shall be eligible to coach boys' sports; and male coaches, otherwise qualified, shall be eligible to coach girls' sports.
Paragraph 10: Supplemental Salary Schedule for Coaches and Athletic Leaders
Senior High Activity Baseball Basketball Bowling Cross Country Football Golf Gymnastics Soccer Softball Swimming Tennis Track Volleyball Wrestling
Middle School Activity Basketball Cross Country Track Volleyball
Athletic Leaders
Paragraph 11: The supplemental salary amount for an assistant coach shall be 60 percent of the supplemental salary amount specified by Paragraph 10 above for the corresponding head coach.
Paragraph 12: The supplemental salary amounts specified by Paragraphs 4 and 10 above shall be prorated for any teacher who performs less than the full supplemental assignment.
2,442
1,232
2,148
1,756
6,905
Paragraph 13: Upon request, the Human Resources Division will provide copies of Supplemental reports to the UTW President. The reports will include the teacher receiving the supplemental, the title of the supplemental, the site, and a description of any Special Activity suppiementals.
Section E:	Overload Teaching
Paragraph 1: Overload teaching is that teaching conducted by a full-time classroom teacher teaching daily in a vacant position during his/her planning period.
Paragraph 2: The acceptance of an overload assignment shall be voluntary. The Board shall not use overload teaching assignments as a means of avoiding the employment of additional full-time teachers when such need is indicated.
Paragraph 3: When a teacher accepts an overload assignment, he/she shall receive additional compensation for the length of that assignment. Such additional compensation shall be equal to the teacher's daily rate of pay divided by one less than the number of teaching periods in a typical school day at the particular school. Under no circumstances shall a teacher be assigned to more than one (1) overload class.
Section F:	Contract Addendum
Paragraph 1: A contract addendum shall be issued to a teacher who is employed for contract days which are an extension of the duties and the period covered by the teacher's base contract.
Paragraph 2: A contract addendum shall provide for compensating the teacher an amount equal to his/ her daily rate for each full day. Partial days shall be compensated by a prorated amount.
Paragraph 3: Teachers may be offered contract addendums. Such addendums will be offered at the discretion of and for the period of time determined by the administration. An attempt shall be made to reach mutual agreement between the teacher and the administration on the specific dates to be worked under the contract addendum. Acceptance of a contract addendum is voluntary.
Section G:	Health Occupations
Paragraph 1: For certificated teachers assigned to health occupations programs, the total work day in the
22
21
programs shall be considered equivalent to the professional day of the regular school programs and the teachers paid accordingly.
Section H:	Pay for Staffings
Paragraph 1: Attendance and participation by the appropriate teachers for special education staffings are expected as part of the professional day and normally are compensated by the base contract salary.
Paragraph 2: When a classroom teacher is required to attend more than three (3) staffings and/or child study team meetings held before or after the school day during the same semester, that classroom teacher shall be paid at the rate of $10.00 per hour or major fraction thereof for each such staffing in excess of three (3).
Paragraph 3: Upon verification by the building principal that a classroom teacher qualifies for such payment, the time will be reported and payment shall be made in accordance with regular payroll procedures.
Paragraph 4: This Section shall be applied to elementary vocal music teachers and elementary physical education teachers as if such teachers were classroom teachers.
Section I:	Pay for Temporary Substituting
Paragraph 1: No teacher will be used as a temporary substitute teacher during his/her conference and preparation period without his/her consent. Teachers exchanging classes by mutual consent and with the approval of the immediate supervisor are not performing as temporary substitutes and no compensation will be required.
Paragraph 2: Elementary
An elementary teacher who, at the request of the administration, assumes teaching responsibilities for five (5) or more pupils regularly assigned at that time to another teacher is performing as a temporary substitute teacher and will be compensated at the rate of $20.00 per hour or major fraction thereof. Such compensation shall not exceed $40.00 per day.
Paragraph 3: Secondary
A secondary teacher who, during his/her conference and preparation time and at the request of the administration, assumes teaching
23
responsibilities for a class of pupils regularly assigned at that time to another classroom teacher is performing as a temporary substitute teacher and will be compensated at the rate of $25.00 per hour or major fraction thereof. Teachers in schools with block schedules shall receive $37.50 per period (one and one-half hours) or major fraction thereof. Such compensation shall not be paid for more than one such hour per day.
Paragraph 4: Upon verification by the building principal that a classroom teacher qualifies for such payment, the time will be reported and payment shall be made in accordance with regular payroll procedures.
Section J:	Longevity Pay
Paragraph 1: Any teacher who has completed fourteen (14) years in the employ of the Board on or before August 1 of the current contract year and who is employed by the Board on November 15 shall be paid a longevity amount equal to the percent specified below of his/ her base contract salary as of September 1. Any teacher whose employment terminates prior to November 15 of the current contract year shall receive no part of any such payment.
15-16 years	3%
17-18 years	4%
19-20 years	5%
21-22 years	6%
23-24 years	7%
25-26 years	8%
27-28 years	9%
29-30 years	10%
31-32 years	11%
33 or more years	12%
Paragraph 2: All longevity payments shall be made in November in accordance with payroll procedures and shall be subject to all applicable deductions.
Section K:	Payroll Deductions
Paragraph 1: The Board provides that, whenever duly authorized by any teacher on a form or forms appropriate for such purposes and consistent with regulations established by the Business/ Financial Services Division, payroll deductions shall be made and paid over in accordance with such form or forms for any or all of the following purposes:
Mg!
24
(a)	Donations to the Friendship Fund
(b)	Payments to the Credit Union of America (c)	Dues to the YMCA
(d)	Health Insurance Premiums
(e)	Dues to the UTW
(f)	Payments to Flexible Spending Accounts
(g)	Payments to Tax Sheltered Plans
Section L:	National Board Certification
Paragraph 1: Teachers that have National Board for Professional Teaching Standards Certification shall receive a stipend of $1,500 per year.
Section M:	Relocation
Paragraph 1: In the event of a location change due to a bond-financed project, the administration shall develop a plan to facilitate the move and, in doing so, shall provide adequate time to teachers to move supplies, equipment and belongings.
ARTICLE VI:
CLASS SIZE REVIEW PROCEDURE
Section A:	Procedure
Paragraph 1: The Board and the UTW recognize the desirability of achieving optimum teaching/ learning conditions. When a teacher believes the size of his/her class to be educationally unsound, the teacher will confer with the building principal regarding the problem. The building principal shall have one week to effect an acceptable solution.
Paragraph 2: If no acceptable solution has been effected within one week, the teacher may refer the matter to the School Building Committee. The School Building Committee may consider the matter or appoint a faculty committee to study and report on the matter. Such committee shall confer with the principal and study all facets of the matter and shall make a written report to the teacher and the principal on the merits of the problem and possible solutions.
Paragraph 3: If recommendations requiring action are included in the report, the principal shall respond to the committee within one week. Such response shall set forth those proposed or already implemented steps designed to meet the
.	recommendations of the committee. If any or all
of the recommendations of the committee are not deemed feasible, the response shall include reasons why those recommendations will not be implemented.
Paragraph 4: If the response of the principal is not acceptable or if no response is made within one week, the School Building Committee and the teacher concerned may submit the problem to the appropriate assistant superintendent or designee, documenting the conditions and making recommendations regarding possible solutions.
Paragraph 5: The assistant superintendent or designee shall respond within two weeks in writing to the teacher with copies to the principal and School Building Committee chairperson. The decision of the assistant superintendent or designee shall be final and binding on the parties in the specific case involved.
Paragraph 6: The inclusion of this Article in this Agreement shall not be construed as the Board having negotiated on the subject of class size.
ARTICLE VII:	TEACHER PROTECTION
Section A:	Working Conditions
Paragraph 1: The Board agrees to strive continually to provide working conditions which meet federal, state, and local laws and regulations.
Section B:	Disciplinary Actions
Paragraph 1: No teacher shall be disciplined without just cause. However, no probationary teacher may grieve any nonrenewal of his/her contract.
Paragraph 2: Professional employees shall not be disciplined or reprimanded in the presence of students, parents, other employees or at public gatherings.
Paragraph 3: Only the Superintendent or designee is i	authorized to suspend a teacher without pay. A
suspension without pay for more than five (5) contract days may be made only after official Board action. The principal is authorized to suspend a teacher from a supplemental position for up to five (5) contract days without pay. The UTW
25
26
President shall be given a list of suspensions without pay, quarterly, denoting only whether elementary, middle school, high school or postsecondary. Upon request of the UTW President, a meeting shall be scheduled on a quarterly basis with the Superintendent, Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources, the UTW President, and UTW Vice-President to review the number of cases of suspensions without pay.
Paragraph 4: No disciplinary action shall be taken against any teacher, nor shall any student be transferred from that teacher's class, on the basis of a complaint by a parent or student before a conference is held between the teacher, parent, student, and the supervisor contemplating the action. Any such complaint shall be disclosed to the teacher, and the teacher may waive the conference. This Paragraph 4 does not apply in situations involving sexual abuse or battery of a student.
Paragraph 5: The exercise of his/her rights in this Article by a teacher shall not prejudice any action that the Board might otherwise take regarding his/her employment status.
Paragraph 6: Teachers who are not covered by K.S.A. 72-5437 to 72-5443 inclusive, because of the definition of teacher in K.S.A. 72-5436, shall be covered by those statutes notwithstanding that definition.
Section C:	Disciplinary Meetings or Hearings
Paragraph 1: Whenever a teacher is required to meet with a building level administrator for the purpose of disciplining the teacher, the meeting shall be held at a reasonable time and in an appropriate place to provide privacy. No teacher shall be given a written reprimand or more serious disciplinary action at such a meeting unless the teacher had at least four (4) hour notice of the meeting and the reason for the meeting. The teacher shall be entitled to representation at such a meeting. However, the teacher may waive such notice and representation
Paragraph 2: Whenever a teacher is required to meet with district office line administrators for the purpose of disciplining the teacher, the teacher shall be given at least twelve (12) hour notice and
the reasons for the meeting and may be accompanied by a person chosen by the teacher who may advise the teacher but will not speak in place of the teacher. However, the teacher may waive such notice. Following such a meeting, a written summary of the meeting and/or the findings shall be provided the teacher within five (5) contract days. The teacher shall sign to indicate receipt of the written summary.
Paragraph 3: Whenever a teacher is required to appear before the Board concerning disciplinary matters, he/she shall be given a five (5) day prior written notice of the reasons for the meeting or hearing and may be represented thereat by the UTW or by a person of his/ her own choosing.
Section D:	Solicitation
Paragraph 1: Every reasonable means shall be used to discourage pupils, parents, and organizations from soliciting teachers during the school day. This provision shall not be construed to prohibit contacts by teacher organizations or educationally related businesses.
Section E:	Legal Action
Paragraph 1: In any case in which a teacher is involved in legal action as a result of following Board or administrative policy, such action shall be immediately reported to the Board. Should the teacher request assistance in the preparation of his/her defense and/or prosecution, the Board will provide such assistance pursuant to law and Board policy.
Section F:	Compliance
Paragraph 1: Teachers shall not be required or compelled to take action or refrain from taking action when to do such would cause them physical harm or to be in violation of law or Board policy. Teachers shall not be required to dispense medication or attend to personal body needs of students unless specifically trained in accordance with Board policy.
Section G:	Property Damage
Paragraph 1: When arising out of and in the course of his/her employment, a teacher's clothing or personal effects worn by the teacher are damaged or destroyed as a result of a physical attack or willful malice, and when the teacher has used
28
27
reasonable judgment, the Board shall reimburse the teacher for the cost of the repair or reasonable value thereof in an amount not to exceed $1,200.
Paragraph 2: When arising out of and in the course of his/her employment a teacher's personal property, brought to the classroom setting as a teaching aid for the curriculum being taught, is damaged or destroyed as a result of willful malice, and when the teacher has used reasonable judgment, the Board shall reimburse the teacher for the cost of the repair or reasonable value thereof, whichever is less, in an amount not to exceed $1,200 per each occurrence.
Paragraph 3: The above does not cover accidental damage, theft or mysterious disappearance.
ARTICLE VIII:	PUPIL CONTROL
Section A:	Classroom
Paragraph 1: General
The individual classroom teacher shall assume the major responsibility for classroom control and discipline, and his/her judgment in this regard will be relied on in the general course. The Board hereby recognizes its responsibility to give support and assistance to teachers in this endeavor and its policies will continue to reflect its position in this regard. Each school will have a discipline procedure setting forth the responsibility and authority for all professional personnel.
Paragraph 2: Pupil Misbehavior
When, in the judgment of a teacher, parents should be informed of a pupil's misbehavior, the teacher should notify the building principal and contact the parents unless the principal assumes the responsibility to do so. Parent conferences with teachers and/or principals should be scheduled and/ or other appropriate disciplinary action taken.
Paragraph 3: Referral of Pupil
When, in the judgment of a teacher, a pupil requires referral to other district employed professional personnel or specialists, he/ she shall so inform his/her principal or immediate supervisor in writing. The principal or immediate supervisor shall arrange as soon as possible for a conference which includes himself/herself, the teacher, and appropriate specialist(s) to discuss the problem and to decide upon appropriate steps for its resolution.
Paragraph 4: Removal of Pupil from Classroom
When, in the judgment of a teacher, a pupil is substantially disrupting the instructional program to the detriment of other pupils, the teacher may remove the pupil from his/her class. The teacher will instruct the pupil to report immediately to the appropriate supervisor or administrator. Following the decision to remove the pupil, the teacher will advise the principal of the action and will, as soon as possible, furnish full particulars. Appropriate written records of such removals shall be maintained by the principal and teacher and shall be available to the parties upon request.
Paragraph 5: Readmittance of Pupil to Classroom
A pupil shall not be readmitted into any class instructed by the teacher who removed the pupil during the half-day in which the pupil was removed unless there is mutual agreement between the teacher and the principal.
Section B:	Suspension, Expulsion
Paragraph 1: Pupils may be subject in certain circumstances to suspension and/or expulsion in accordance with law and Board policies.
Section C:	Physical Force
Paragraph 1: While in the course of his I her employment, a teacher may use reasonable physical force against a pupil but only to protect himself/herself, to protect other persons, to prevent the destruction of property, or to prevent any illegal overt act on the part of the pupil.
Section D:	Right to Grieve Board Policy 5112
Paragraph 1: Any alleged violation or misapplication of Board Policy 5112, including all Administrative Implemental Procedures, shall be subject to the grievance procedure. This shall not be construed to mean that any other Board policy is subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE IX:	TEACHER BENEFITS
Section A:	Personal Injury Benefits
Paragraph 1: Worker's Compensation
The Board shall continue under the Kansas Worker's Compensation Law to provide worker's
29
30
compensation coverage for all teachers. For any day that the teacher receives compensation for total disability under the Worker's Compensation Law for compensable illness or accident arising out of or in the course of his/her employment, the teacher's salary shall be reduced by 100 percent of the amount of the worker's compensation total disability payment received by that teacher.
Paragraph 2: Other Injury Benefits
Whenever a teacher is absent as a result of personal injury caused by battery arising out of or in the course of his/her employment, and when investigation by the administration indicates that he/she has used reasonable judgment, he/she shall be paid his/her full salary for a period of up to one hundred eighty (180) calendar days, less any worker's compensation disability payments as provided above, without having such absence charged to his/her accumulated temporary leave. In other similar cases where the teacher loses time as a result of his/her following Board or administrative policy, at his/her discretion, the Superintendent may excuse such absence without loss of pay or temporary leave.
Section B:	State Retirement Participation
Paragraph 1: The Board shall participate in the Kansas Public Employees Retirement System in accordance with K.S.A. 74-4931 et. seq.
Section C:	Disability Income Protection
Paragraph 1: The Board shall provide disability income protection coverage. This protection, in substance, ensures that teachers shall be compensated in accordance with terms, conditions, and exclusions of such coverage for hereinafter specified periods of total disability resulting from occupational or non-occupational illness or injury at a rate of seventy (70) percent of the teacher's regular daily rate. Such compensation shall be subject to all applicable deductions. The periods of total disability for which payments are to be paid hereunder shall commence on the sixth (6th) contract day following the expiration of the last day of the teacher's accumulated temporary leave days and shall continue to the date which is one hundred eighty (180) calendar days after the date of the commencement of the total disability for
which this or any other benefit is being paid. In the event of a single and total disability for a continuous period of thirty (30) days or more from the first day of the disability, the teacher's first five (5) contract days of disability income protection compensation for such disability shall be paid retroactively.
Paragraph 2: A single disability for a period of 180 days is defined for the purpose of this article as a single absence. Under no circumstances will the Disability Income Protection Plan exceed a period of 180 consecutive days.
Paragraph 3: The teacher's disability income protection compensation shall be reduced by personal Social Security benefits and any worker's compensation total disability payments as provided above. If subsequent to the commencement of compensation from disability income protection, it is determined that the illness or accident for which compensation has been made arose out of or in the course of the teacher's employment, the teacher's compensation shall revert to worker's compensation disability payments and the teacher's disability income protection compensation shall be reduced by any retroactive payment of worker's compensation total disability payments.
Section D:	General Liability Coverage
Paragraph 1: The Board shall provide general liability coverage with a minimum single liability limit of at least $500,000. This coverage, in accordance with its definitions and exclusions, will defend and pay on behalf of those teachers covered all sums for which those teachers covered shall become legally obligated to pay within the stated occurrence limits as damages because of bodily injury or property damage. This coverage will include corporal punishment within the definition of damages for bodily injury. This coverage will also include teachers who transport pupils within the course and scope of their employment either voluntarily with permission of an appropriate administrator or because of the requirements of a supplemental assignment. The employees of the Board will be included within this coverage. The Board shall not be obligated beyond any standard liability coverage that is provided or is able reasonably to be purchased in the future.
31
32
Section E:	Life Coverage
Paragraph 1: The Board shall provide a group term life coverage with individual limits of $30,000 for all teachers employed half time or more. Any increase in the individual limits for a teacher shall not be effective until the teacher reports or is able to report for work. Teachers employed less than halftime are not eligible for such life coverage.
Section F:	Health Coverage
Paragraph 1: Effective August1,2003 and ending July 31, 2004, the Board contribution shall be $510 per month. This plan shall provide health coverage for the teacher and eligible dependents, if any, in accordance with the terms, conditions, and exclusions of the plan as developed by the administration with the involvement of the UTW. The administration of the plan shall be reviewed at least quarterly by the Employee Health Advisory Committee, whose teacher members shall consist of plan participants appointed by the UTW. Changes in the plan will normally be effective on August 1 of any year and only with the involvement of the UTW. Teachers employed less than half-time are not eligible for coverage or membership in the plan and the Board shall make no payment for such teachers.
Paragraph 2: The Board shall continue to pay membership in the plan for an eligible teacher who suffers a continuing total disability for a period not to exceed 180 calendar days after the date of the commencement of the total disability. All actions and decisions under the health plan shall be made in accordance with rules and procedures established by the administration.
Paragraph 3: Teachers employed halftime or more may enroll in a cash option in lieu of coverage and membership in the health coverage. Teachers enrolled in the cash option shall be paid $100 per month as extra earnings in regular payroll checks and shall be subject to all applicable deductions.
Paragraph 4: If a teacher enrolled in the health coverage is covered by another Board provided health coverage plan as a dependent, then such teacher's health coverage shall have no deductible, coinsurance, or co-payments for any covered services except prescription drugs.
Paragraph 5: Certain provisions of this Section or of the plan are subject to continuing and future interpretations by the state or federal governments or their respective agencies. Any new law or more definite or different interpretation of existing law may require immediate and thorough modification of this agreement or of the plan. In such event, the change, deletion, or modification of this Article and/or the plan shall be accomplished forthwith.
Section G:	Severance Payment
Paragraph 1: A teacher who retires or resigns within the time limits allowed by statute, after reaching age fifty-five (55) years or five (5) years in the employ of the Board shall be eligible for a severance payment. The severance payment shall also apply to a teacher who meets the above age or employment qualification and who leaves the district's employment either due to death or total disability or for other good causes as determined solely by the Board. Teachers may, at their option, have their severance applied to health plan payments.
Paragraph 2: The amount of severance payment for which the teacher is eligible shall be computed by multiplying the number of accumulated unused temporary leave days by $30.
Paragraph 3: The severance payment shall be made to the eligible teacher in accordance with regular payroll procedures and shall be subject to all applicable deductions.
Section H:	Annuity Plan
Paragraph 1: Teachers are eligible to participate in salary reduction tax-sheltered plans, including 457 plans, established pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code, consistent with regulations established by the Business/Financial Services Division. Enrollment in the 457 plan must have a minimum of twenty-five (25) participants by the end of the second year after the plan commences or the 457 plan may be terminated at the discretion of the Superintendent.
Section I:	Mileage Allowance
Paragraph 1: Any teacher who is required to use his/her own automobile as a regular condition of employment in his/her base or addendum
33
34
contract shall be compensated on a quarterly basis at the rate per mile established by the Secretary of Administration of the State of Kansas. Mileage rates are effective on the first of the month following the date the Department of Administration makes a change. No mileage compensation will be payable unless specific agreement therefor with the Business/Financial Services Division has been reached in advance of being incurred.
Section J:	Early Retirement
Paragraph 1: The Board will continue to provide a voluntary early retirement program for members of the teachers bargaining unit employed prior to July 1,1996. The substance and procedures of the program, and any changes thereto, are in each instance to be determined by the Board. Alterations shall not be applied retroactively to affect any retired teacher receiving benefits from the program. For the duration of this agreement and pending any legislative action, the Early Retirement structure and level of benefits shall continue at no less than the same level in place on the effective date of this agreement.
Section K:	Flexible Spending Account Plan
Paragraph 1: The Board shall provide a Flexible Spending Account Plan established pursuant to Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code which will allow voluntary payroll deduction. The substance and procedures of the Plan, and any changes thereto, are in each instance to be determined by the Board after consultation with the UTW. The Plan shall include only dependent care assistance and non-reimbursed medical expenses.
Section L:	General
Paragraph 1: Each benefit specified by this Article may, at the Board's option, be provided by a Board selected carrier or by self-funding by the Board or any combination thereof. The Board may change from one carrier to another or to self-funding at any time. The specific coverage may be altered by the Board at any time so long as the coverage provided complies with the expressed terms of this agreement.
Section M:	Catastrophic Emergency Benefit Plan
Paragraph 1: The Board shall provide a Catastrophic Emergency Benefit Plan to be used by teachers who have suffered some catastrophic emergency and who have exhausted all temporary leave.
Paragraph 2: The Plan shall be administered by a joint committee consisting of employees representing all employee groups. The committee shall consist of five (5) members from the Teachers Bargaining Unit, four (4) members from Service Employees Union, two (2) members from the Technical/ Supervisory employee group, two (2) members from the Administration, one (1) member from i	Security, and one (1) member from the
Confidential employee group. Members shall be appointed by their respective employee groups and terms of service on the committee shall be determined by the respective groups. The president of the UTW, the president of Service Employees Union, the Assistant Superintendent s	of Human Resources, and the Human Resources
Specialist shall serve as resource members to the committee. Decisions rendered by the committee are final and binding.
Paragraph 3: The plan shall be open to all benefited employees who contribute to the establishment of the pool. The pool shall be established by allowing each benefited employee to contribute one (1) day of temporary leave into the pool. The plan shall be made available for employee use when at least 400 employee days have been contributed. Only those employees who have contributed to the pool shall be eligible to draw from it. Teachers who contributed one (1) day of temporary leave to the pool may continue as a 1	participant during the 2003-04 school year without
contributing another day.
) Paragraph 4: When the pool falls below 300 days, it l	shall be replenished by a new thirty-day open
enrollment period during which time employees may contribute an additional day or may become new members of the plan by contributing one day.
Paragraph 5: Employees who meet the criteria above shall be eligible to draw on the pool up to twenty (20) days per contract year. The employee must exhaust all accumulated temporary leave to be eligible
36
35
ARTICLEX: LEAVES
Section A: Temporary Leave
Paragraph 1: Chargeable Temporary Leaves
(a)	Each teacher who is under a full-time contract for a full professional year shall be granted twelve (12) temporary leave days on the first day that the teacher reports for work in that professional year. Each teacher at extended day/extended year schools on a 210-day, full time contract for a full professional year shall be granted thirteen and a half (13.5) temporary leave days. Temporary leave days shall be prorated for any teacher who is contracted for less than full time but at least half time or who begins his/her employment after the beginning of the professional year. However, teachers in less than half-time positions who were hired before August 1,1999 shall receive prorated temporary leave days. Temporary leave days granted shall be added immediately to the teacher's accumulation. A teacher under an addendum contract shall be granted one (1) temporary leave day for each fifteen (15) days of paid addendum computed to the nearest half day. Such additional days shall be added to the teacher's accumulation upon completion of the addendum contract.
(b)	Unused temporary leave days shall be cumulative without limit.
(c)	Accumulated temporary leave days may be used for:
(1)	Personal illness, injury, or incapacitation up to the maximum of the number of days the teacher has accumulated. However, no teacher may use temporary leave days for any single such disability beyond 180 calendar days from the first day of disability. On or before the end of thirty (30) calendar days from the beginning date of the disability and on or before the end of every thirty (30) calendar days thereafter, the teacher and his/her physician shall furnish a statement verifying the disability. For the recurrence of a disability to be considered a new disability, the teacher must have returned to work for a continuous period equal in length to the period of absence or for thirty (30)
consecutive contract days if the period of absence exceeded thirty (30) contract days. However, if such time period is interrupted by the end of the school year, a teacher who fails to complete such time period upon the start of the next school year may file an appeal with the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources who may waive the remaining days. Short absences for reasons not related to the disability shall not be counted towards fulfillment of this requirement, but will not be considered an interruption thereof. Temporary leave for maternity will be granted to teachers during the period of actual incapacitation from performing their duties. Pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy and recovery shall be treated as any other temporary disability for job-related purposes, including commencement, duration and extensions of leave, payment of disability income, reinstatement and any other fringe benefit offered to employees by virtue of employment.
(2)	Illness, injury, or death of the teacher's spouse, child or parent up to a maximum of fourteen (14) days per contract year. Up to eight (8) of these days may be used for illness, injury, or death of the teacher's in-law, grandchild, grandparent, sibling, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, any person having been regularly living in the teacher's household, or in-law of the teacher's spouse, child or parent.
(3)	Personal leave up to a maximum of three (3) days per contract year to be taken at the teacher's discretion by teachers with less than twenty (20) years employment with the Board, and up to a maximum of four (4) days per contract year to be taken at the teacher's discretion by teachers with twenty (20) years or more employment with the Board. However, teachers shall properly file a form of notification twenty-four (24) hours in advance of a personal leave. Teachers shall not take temporary personal leave during nonteaching professional days nor during the first five and last five days of the school year nor during addendum contracts of twenty (20) or fewer days nor to extend those nonworking days or conference release days as
37
38
(f)
identified by the school calendar. However, in cases of emergency, the principal may waive the preceding restrictions other than the numerical limit. In addition, the teacher may use personal leave to attend a graduation of the teacher's child.
(4)	Temporary active duty up to a maximum of fourteen (14) days per contract year. Leave for temporary active duty is provided the teacher who is a member of a reserve military unit which is ordered to active duty as a result of an emergency or disaster.
(5)	Paternity leave up to a maximum of three (3) days per contract year. Paternity leave is provided for the father to attend the birth of his child.
(6)	Adoptive leave up to a maximum of ten (10) days per contract year.
When a teacher is absent from his/ her assignment for any of the above reasons, such absence shall be a chargeable absence and the number of days of such chargeable absence shall be subtracted from his/her accumulated temporary leave days. Absences for one-half (1/2) day or less shall be chargeable as one-half (1/2) day. Absences for less than a day but more than one-half (1/2) shall be chargeable as one (1) day. A teacher's salary shall be reduced by the amount of his/her daily rate of pay for each day of chargeable absence in excess of the limits specified by subparagraph (c) above. However, the numerical limits specified by subparagraph (c) (2), (c) (4), and (c) (6) above may be extended by the Superintendent upon written request by the teacher if the teacher has accumulated sufficient days.
For any day that the teacher receives compensation for total disability under the Worker's Compensation Law for compensable illness or accident arising out of or in the course of his/her employment, the teacher's payment for temporary leave shall be reduced by 100 percent of the amount of the worker's compensation total disability payment received by that teacher.
When the administration has doubt of the authenticity of the reason given by the teacher for any absence other than personal leave, the administration reserves the right to require
evidence of authenticity. After five consecutive days of absence, the administration may require the teacher to furnish evidence of authenticity of the reason given by the teacher. Such evidence shall be subject to review and appropriate action by the Human Resources Division.
(g) If, in the judgment of the building principal, the total number of absences on a given day by teachers based at the building will impair or is impairing the educational program, then the principal may request that teachers not take personal leaves.
Paragraph 2: Nonchargeable Temporary Leave
Subject to administrative approval, a teacher may be granted temporary leave for the following purposes, subject to the following provisions. Such temporary leave shall not be chargeable to cumulative temporary leave days, and the teacher shall receive his/her full pay.
(a)	Court Duty or Jury Duty
A teacher may be granted temporary leave to appear in court to answer a jury summons, or for reasons other than personal neglect, violation of law, or matters in which the teacher has a vested interest The amount paid for jury duty or witness fees, if any, shall be deducted from the teacher's regular pay. Verification of the amount received for jury duty or witness fees must be provided.
(b)	Curriculum
A teacher may be granted temporary leave to participate in the development of a school project within the school system (for example, working as a committee member during the school day).
(c)	Joint Study
A teacher may be granted temporary leave to work on a committee jointly sponsored by the Board and the UTW.
(d)	Professional
A teacher may be granted temporary leave to pursue professionally related activities.
(e)	Instruction
A teacher may be granted temporary leave to supervise a group of pupils.
39
40
(f)	Visitation
A teacher may be granted temporary leave to consult with and/or observe for professional purposes a person or school.
(g)	School Business
A teacher may be granted temporary leave to conduct business for the school system at the direction of the Superintendent.
(h)	Natural Disaster
A teacher may be granted temporary leave in the event of a tornado, flood, and/or fire as determined by the Human Resources Division, and after the teacher has used all personal leave.
Paragraph 3: Other Temporary Leaves
The Superintendent or a delegated authority may authorize temporary leave for any other purpose not expressly identified above. Such authorization shall specify the temporary leave as chargeable or nonchargeable.
Section B:	Extended Leaves
Paragraph 1: Teachers are entitled, subject to administrative approval, to extended leaves for study, foreign travel, foreign teaching, exchange teaching, health, illness of spouse, child, or parent, maternity, paternity, adoption, military service, campaigning for or serving in a public office, professional activities and professionally related employment. Such extended leaves shall normally be for one (1) semester or one (1) year. An extended leave may be lengthened to include a second year under the same provisions which applied to the first year of extended leave. No extended leave shall be considered a termination of employment.
Paragraph 2: General Provisions
A teacher shall:
(a)	Have completed his/her probationary period before being eligible for extended leave. Application for extended leave may be made during the last semester of the probationary period or thereafter.
(b)	Receive no salary or benefits from Unified School District 259 when he/she is on extended leave.
(c)	Receive full credit for teaching experiences while on extended leave for:
(1)	Study when enrolled for the period of leave in at least the equivalent of a minimum full
load of course requirements in an academic institution.
(2)	Military service, as required by federal or state law.
(3)	Professionally related employment.
(4)	Foreign teaching or exchange teaching.
(5)	Campaigning for or serving in a public office as an elected official.
(6)	Professional activities (for example, as an employee or officer of a local, state or national professional organization, or as a volunteer in VISTA or Peace Corps).
(d)	Receive no credit for teaching experience while on extended leave for reasons of health, illness of spouse, child, or parent, maternity, paternity, adoption, or foreign travel.
(e)	Be subject upon his/her return from extended leave to any general salary reductions which may be ordered by the Board.
(f)	Retain during the extended leave, current status if
applicable to the Wichita Supplemental Annuity Plan.
(g)	Retain accumulated temporary leave days, but additional temporary leave days shall not accumulate during the term of extended leave.
(h)	Be permitted to retain membership, during extended leave, in the Board provided health coverage plan. However, arrangements for payment of premiums must be made in advance with the Risk Management Office and the Board shall make no contribution.
(i)	Be reassigned in a position which is at least comparable to the one which he/she held when the extended leave commenced, exclusive of supplemental assignments. If the date of return from extended leave is other than the beginning of a school year, the effective date of return shall be subject to a vacancy for which the teacher on leave is qualified. If the date of return from extended leave is the beginning of a school year, the assignment shall be assured, provided the
42
41
teacher notifies the Human Resources Division on or before April 15 of his/her intention to return. On or before March 15 the Human Resources Division shall make reasonable attempts to notify each teacher on leave of this provision.
(j)	Prior to resuming duties on return from an extended leave for maternity or health, present to the Human Resources Division a statement from a physician that the teacher is physically able to resume normal duties required of his/her assignment If requested by the Human Resources Division, confirmation of the physician's statement by another physician selected by the Board may be required at the expense of the board. Maternity, as used herein, includes pregnancy, childbirth, false pregnancy, termination of pregnancy, and recovery therefrom. Maternity leave without pay shall extend for a reasonable period of time subject to (*)•
Paragraph 3: Other Extended Leaves
The Superintendent may authorize, subject to the approval of the Board, an extended leave for any other purpose not expressly identified above.
Paragraph 4: Application
(a)	Application for extended leaves which are to be effective at the beginning of a school year shall be made on or before April 15. Applications for extended leaves which are to be effective at a time other than at the beginning of a school year shall be made three (3) months before the requested effective leave date. In the event that the above dates for application are not met, teachers shall still receive consideration of their application and extended leaves may be granted except where such leave would work a hardship on the school system.
(b)	A physical examination and/or statement from a medical doctor may be required of any teacher making an application for an extended leave for health. In the case of maternity, such statement shall include the anticipated birth date of the child.
(c)	Teachers shall make application for extended leaves on forms provided by the Human Resources Division.
Paragraph 5: Notification for Leaves
In the case of leave for maternity, elective surgery, or other condition of health which may require an extended period of absence from the job, the teacher shall notify her/his immediate supervisor as soon as possible after becoming aware of the condition.
Section C:	Sabbatical Leaves
Paragraph 1: Purpose
In order to provide opportunities for professional improvement, sabbatical leaves are available to teachers for formal, full-time study at a college or university.
Paragraph 2: Eligibility
(a)	An applicant must have performed seven (7) school years of continuous service in Unified School District 259 immediately prior to the commencement of the proposed sabbatical leave. The continuity of service is not interrupted by an extended leave of up to one (1) year. However, time during such leave shall not be counted toward the required seven (7) years and at least two (2) of the seven years must have been performed after the latest extended leave. The continuity of service is interrupted by any extended leave or leaves which total in excess of one (1) year.
(b)	Applicants shall not have received sabbatical leave during the seven (7) years immediately preceding the application.
(c)	Each applicant must sign a statement of intent to return to service in Unified School District 259 immediately upon termination of sabbatical leave.
(d)	Each applicant must sign a commitment to repay the amount paid during the sabbatical leave on a prorated basis in the event the teacher fails to return to Unified School District 259 and perform assigned services under a contract of employment for a period of one (1) year after return from sabbatical leave.
Paragraph 3: Application
(a)	Applications shall be made to the Chairperson of the Committee for Sabbatical Leave on or before
43
44
the annual deadline dates established by the said committee.
(b)	The application shall present the applicant's plans for the sabbatical leave and such other information as the committee deems advisable.
Paragraph 4: Selection
(a)	The Committee for Sabbatical Leave shall consist
of two members appointed by the Superintendent, two members appointed by United Teachers of Wichita, and the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources, who will chair the committee.
(b)	The committee will prepare a priority listing of eligible applicants and recommend teachers for sabbatical leave appointments. The committee shall judge the quality of the applications and recommend no more than five (5) teachers per contract year.
(c)	Consideration shall be given to:
(1)	Assured eligibility.
(2)	The potential contribution to the applicant's
professional growth.
(3)	The applicant's prior contribution to the school district, potential for future leadership, or for improvement of classroom instruction.
(4)	Evidence of professional growth.
(5)	Any other pertinent factors as established by the committee.
(d)	The priority listing of applicants for sabbatical leave shall be submitted to the Board for approval.
Paragraph 5: Compensation
While on sabbatical leave, the teacher shall be paid according to the base contract salary which would have been earned had the teacher not been on leave. Payment for a semester's sabbatical leave shall equal 100 percent of the semester's base contract salary, and payment for a year's sabbatical leave shall equal 50 percent of a year's base contract salary.
Paragraph 6: General Provisions
A teacher shall:
(a)	Receive full credit for system experience while on sabbatical leave.
(b)	Be subject upon return from sabbatical leave to any general salary reductions which may be ordered by the Board.
(c)	Retain during the sabbatical leave current status if applicable in the Wichita Supplemental Annuity Plan.
(d)	Retain accumulated temporary leave days, but additional temporary leave days shall not accumulate during the term of the sabbatical leave.
(e)	Maintain all rights accruing under Kansas Public Employees Retirement System, if any.
(f)	Be permitted to retain the health coverage benefit
as set forth in the Teacher Benefits Article.
(g)	Retain group term life coverage.
(h)	Retain disability income protection coverage.
(i)	Upon completion of sabbatical leave, be reassigned in a position which is at least comparable to the one held when assuming sabbatical leave status, exclusive of supplemental assignments.
(j)	Be eligible for sabbatical leave for a semester or a year. A second year may be granted in special cases under the provisions in Section B of this Article.
(k)	Not deviate while on sabbatical leave from his/ her approved plan except with the written permission of the Committee for Sabbatical Leave.
Section D: Family and Medical Leave
Paragraph 1: The Board shall comply with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 or as subsequently amended.
46
45
ARTICLE XI: TEACHER USE OF FACILITIES
Section A:	Building
Paragraph 1: Meetings
Teachers have the right to reasonable use of building facilities for meetings at reasonable times and hours when such buildings are open and the operating staff is on duty.
Paragraph 2: Instruction Preparation
Teachers shall have reasonable access to classrooms, equipment, or appropriate offices for instructional purposes or for instructional preparation.
Section B:	Equipment
Paragraph 1: When not otherwise in use, teachers may make reasonable use of office equipment (not including supplies) located anywhere in the building of their assignment(s). Such equipment shall not be removed from the building except with advance written approval of the building principal. If the equipment is removed from the building for personal use, the teacher shall sign a commitment to reimburse the Board for any loss of or damage to such equipment, less depreciation and allowance for normal wear and tear.
Section C:	Announcements
Paragraph 1: Teachers have the right to request the placement of items in daily bulletins and reasonable use of intercom equipment.
Section D:	Procedures
Paragraph 1: Such use as referred to in Sections A, B, and C shall be arranged and approved through the building principal or his/her administrative representative. Such use shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Paragraph 2: If a teacher's request for use of building facilities, classrooms, offices, office equipment or to make announcements is denied, the teacher shall, upon request, be entitled to an explanation from the principal or his/her administrative representative.
Section E:	Posting Materials
Paragraph 1: Subject to reasonable regulation by the School Building Committee, teachers have the right to post items on faculty bulletin boards and to place items in teachers' boxes. A copy of any duplicated material placed in teachers' boxes shall be furnished to the building principal no later than the time of distribution.
Paragraph 2: Materials which propose or promote any action by a teacher or group of teachers to violate any term of this agreement or any Board or administrative policy, rule, regulation, or directive shall not be placed in teachers' boxes or on faculty bulletin boards.
ARTICLE XII: PROFESSIONAL RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Section A:	General
Paragraph 1: The teacher, as a member of the teaching profession, has certain rights, privileges and prerogatives. The Board so recognizes the teacher as a professional person and, when it employs him/her, it does so with the express intent of honoring these rights, privileges and prerogatives. Correspondingly, when the teacher accepts employment by the Board, he/she does so with the intent of fulfilling his/her professional and contractual responsibilities.
Paragraph 2: As a professional, a teacher is frequently called upon to employ his/her own judgment with regard to his/her actions. In doing so, the teacher must bear the responsibility of his/her decisions. In the area of the exercise of his/her professional rights, the teacher's judgment must be relied upon in the general course, but is subject to review in accordance with provisions established by contractual agreement or law.
Section B:	Rights and Responsibilities
Paragraph 1: Discussion of School Policies
Teachers have the right to express opinions on school policies and conditions, make declarations, and vote on issues. Teachers are free to dissent from the views of other teachers, if they are so inclined. No reprisals shall be made as a result of
47
48
such dissent. Teachers have the right to meet privately and to disseminate their views either as individuals or groups.
Paragraph 2: Organizational Activities
Teachers have the right to join and participate in lawful activities of their own choosing.
Paragraph 3: Political Activity
Each teacher is free to exercise rights and fulfill responsibilities as a citizen by participating in political activity, attending functions of political parties, belonging to the party of choice, seeking support in the community on political issues, becoming a candidate for public office and holding such office. The teacher's political activity, however, must not compromise professional integrity. The teacher must not misuse his/her professional position to pervert academic freedom in the interests of personal political beliefs or ambitions or those of a political group. A teacher shall not in the course of employment or by virtue of his/her professional contact with pupils use pupils to influence or attempt to influence a partisan political election or other election for public office.
Paragraph 4: Individual and Personal Rights
The teacher's individual and personal rights outside the academic setting are no less than those of other citizens. Each teacher has the right to conduct himself/herself outside the academic setting as he/she sees fit unless it can be shown that the teacher's behavior is affecting his/her professional performance in a demonstrably deleterious manner. The personal appearance of a teacher shall be left to the discretion of that teacher. However, his/her appearance shall not adversely affect his/her professional performance.
Paragraph 5: Curriculum and Materials
While the groups of teachers must develop through professional agreement, subject to approval of the Board, the objectives, content, and methods of the curriculum, the individual classroom teacher shall exercise professional judgment in their implementation and in the selection of supplementary materials within the guidelines established by professional groups.
Paragraph 6: Space and Facilities
The fulfillment of the responsibilities of this contract requires that the teacher undertake certain tasks such as planning, grading, telephone conferences and, when the teacher deems it necessary, the undertaking of activities which promote professional growth. The teacher is expected to perform certain of these tasks off school premises.
Section C:	Nondelegable Board Power
Paragraph 1: Any judgment or decision made hereunder which constitutes an exercise of a power not delegable by the Board shall be subject to review and modification by the Board. Grievances regarding this Article shall not be presented to arbitration without the consent of the Superintendent or designee.
ARTICLE XIII: ACADEMIC FREEDOM
Section A:	Academic Freedom
Paragraph 1: It is the mutual desire of the Board and of the teachers to create and maintain in the school system a climate in which teachers are free to teach and pupils are free to learn at their levels of comprehension; a climate conducive to open inquiry and responsible discussion of any and all topics related to the development of mankind ethically, culturally and physically, including views and expressions on these and other topics which may be unorthodox or unpopular.
Paragraph 2: In order to assure the general continuity, scope, and sequence of the curriculum within the concept of academic freedom, the teacher shall conduct instructional programs in a manner consistent with district curricular objectives of the course and the campus improvement plan.
Paragraph 3: A teacher must be allowed to exercise academic freedom in a continuous effort to accomplish the mission of the school system. Major goals of the school system are to develop learning skills; to develop a free, reasoning individual who can think independently, who can recognize basic values and understand the fundamental ideas not only of his/her own but other cultures as well; and to ensure all students learn the skills
49
50
and acquire the knowledge necessary for success at continuing stages of their lives in an environment where diversity is valued.
Paragraph 4: The principle of academic freedom implies that a teacher must teach with an understanding and respect for the individuality of each pupil. Academic freedom further implies that a teacher will teach with a scrupulous regard for honesty and accuracy, without distortion or falsification.
Paragraph 5: Academic freedom guaranteed herein requires strict adherence to professional ethics. It also requires the teacher to evaluate his/her instruction in a continual effort to meet the highest standards set forth by the teaching profession.
Section B:	Instructional Materials
Paragraph 1: In selecting instructional materials, teachers must consider the learning media to be employed, the substantive manner in which the materials may contribute to the education of the pupil, their aesthetic values, appropriateness to the curriculum and adaptability both in structure and content for a particular individual or groups of pupils, and shall not be restricted beyond these considerations.
Paragraph 2: The teacher must be free to recommend for individual study any instructional material which he/she believes will have educational significance for an individual pupil, and must also be free to discuss with a pupil any instructional material that the pupil reads, views or hears, whether the teacher has recommended it or whether the pupil has discovered it for himself/ herself.
Section C:	Outside Speakers
Paragraph 1: The teacher must be free to invite and utilize the services of outside speakers in the classroom when the teacher believes that such speakers will have educational significance for a class of pupils.
Section D:	Professional Review
Paragraph 1: A Professional Board of Review shall consist of a representative group of twelve (12) teachers employed by the school system and
three (3) representatives of the Wichita educational community. This Professional Board of Review shall be appointed by the Superintendent from a list of candidates submitted by the UTW in August of each year or as soon thereafter as possible. Throughout the school year, the UTW shall maintain a list of fifteen (15) names from which the Superintendent shall fill vacancies as they occur. This Professional Board of Review shall establish written rules and procedures for the conduct of its business.
Paragraph 2: All decisions rendered on the application of any of the provisions of Sections A, B, and C of this Article in a specific situation shall be made by this Professional Board of Review. It will accept problems, complaints and requests for guidance from teachers and citizens and, after giving all interested parties an opportunity to present their viewpoints, shall render a judgment in accordance with this Article and the Code of Ethics of the Education Profession. Such judgment shall be final and binding upon all teachers involved in the specific situation. However, the decision of a teacher shall not be overruled or stayed pending such judgment by the Professional Board of Review.
Section E:	Nondelegable Board Power
Paragraph 1: Any judgment or decision made hereunder which constitutes an exercise of a power not delegable by the Board shall be subject to review and modification by the Board. Grievances regarding this Article shall not be presented to arbitration without the consent of the Superintendent or designee.
ARTICLE XIV:	TEACHER FILES
Section A: Teacher Files
Paragraph 1: All material obtained during the period of employment and placed in the teacher's file shall be available for inspection by the teacher at mutually agreeable times and in the presence of a person authorized to show the files. The teacher may obtain, upon request, a copy of such material. At the teacher's request, a person of his/her choosing may accompany the teacher for the inspection.
51
52
Paragraph 2: The phrase, teacher's file, as used in this Article shall be construed to include all information in the personnel data base pertaining to the teacher.
Paragraph 3: The teacher shall be given a copy within five (5) contract days of any Personnel Conference Summary concerning the teacher whether or not it is placed in the teacher's file.
Paragraph 4: Confidential material received by the administration prior to employment and in employment processing, and confidential references or evaluations obtained from professional educators and educational institutions outside the school system subsequent to employment shall be exempted from inspection. However, the teacher shall be provided a list of such items upon request, including the source of such items.
Paragraph 5: Before any material, other than that specified in Paragraph 4 above, of a derogatory nature is placed in a teacher's file, such material shall be discussed with the teacher.
Paragraph 6: The teacher shall have the right to answer any material filed which is subject to inspection. Such answer shall be submitted to the Human Resources Division within ten (10) contract days of the date that the teacher first received a copy of the material being answered. Such answer shall be affixed to the material and placed with it in the teacher's file.
11	Paragraph 7: The teacher may request a personnel
,	administrator to remove any evaluative or
!	disciplinary material more than three (3) years
old from the teacher’s file. Such request may or may not be granted. The decision of the personnel administrator shall be final. The Human Resources Division shall keep a record of the requests made and of the disposition of each request.
Paragraph 8: Only the teacher's SQIS information may follow the teacher to a new building assignment.
ARTICLE XV:	STAFF QUALITY IMPROVEMENT SYSTEM
Section A: General
Paragraph 1: The Staff Quality Improvement System shall be a systematic and continuous process. The process shall focus on self-development and professional growth and shall not be construed as an act of discipline. The goal of the Staff Quality Improvement System shall be to improve the quality of instruction in a way that is consistent with the district's strategic beliefs and mission, the district strategic plan, and the individual campus improvement plans and mission statements. The Board and the UTW shall cooperate to establish appropriate inservice activities.
Paragraph 2: The foundation for the Staff Quality Improvement System shall contain, but not be limited to, the following:
(a)	Setting realistic and meaningful goals.
(b)	Identifying opportunities for professional growth.
(c)	Identifying strategies for professional growth.
(d)	Providing resources for professional growth.
Paragraph 3: This system shall be implemented in a way that:
(a)	Supports all organizational goals
(b)	Promotes systems and processes improvement
(c)	Encourages risk taking, mutual trust, and support
(d)	Promotes collaborative input and goal setting
(e)	Is flexible and fosters continuous professional growth
(f)	Provides a variety of information gathering tools and supporting documentation
(g)	Structures time for effective communication, implementation, and feedback
so that student learning and teacher job satisfaction are continually increased.
53
54
Paragraph 4: Only an alleged abuse of this process shall be subject to the grievance procedure. The feedback and recommendations are not grievable. Disputes regarding this process will be reviewed by the Superintendent or designee and the UTW President or designee.
Paragraph 5: Teachers shall undergo a medical evaluation if so requested or directed by the Superintendent or designee. Such teachers shall be given the reason(s) for the referral directive. The costs of any such medical evaluation shall be paid by the Board.
Paragraph 6: The administrative staff shall provide information and discuss the Staff Quality Improvement System at a building staff meeting early in each school year. Time will be provided for teachers to review their progress in the Staff Quality Improvement Sy stem as part of the campus improvement plan.
Paragraph 7: The Staff Quality Improvement System forms adopted by the Board shall be used and kept in the teacher's file at the base site.
Paragraph 8: The supervisor and teacher(s) shall sign the Staff Quality Improvement System form as an acknowledgment of its existence.
Paragraph 9: Teachers shall not be monitored by intercom or other mechanical devices without their knowledge or permission.
Section B:	System Highlights
Paragraph 1: The Staff Quality Improvement System is comprised of three major components:
(a)	A continuous growth plan which shall apply to all teachers.
(b)	An orientation phase which shall pertain to probationary teachers.
(c)	A plan of assistance phase which shall apply to any teacher who has completed his/her second year of teaching or beyond and who may need extraordinary assistance to accomplish the level of success which will enable him/her to continue employment within the district.
Section C:	Continuous Growth Plan
Paragraph 1: Continuous growth is an ongoing process which encourages professional growth for all teachers. Its purpose is to assure quality service and support This shall be accomplished through systems review, growth plans and staff development. The growth plan has five parts including a feedback loop, growth goals, focused staff support, a professional support file, and staff development.
Paragraph 2: Feedback Loop (Plan-Do-Study-Act)
Feedback loop is a process in which people seek information about customer needs and expectations, make a plan with the customer to meet these needs and expectations, ask for feedback from the customer as to whether the plan is working, and then revise the plan as needed. The feedback loop is integrated throughout the growth process and is designed to:
(a)	Determine and consider internal and external customer needs and expectations
(b)	Collect feedback information through techniques such as:
(1)	Internal and external customer surveys.
(2)	Sharing data with teachers for the purpose of planned improvement of the system.
(3)	Assessing the growth of the system rather than measuring individual performance (re: goal alignment).
Paragraph 3: Growth Goals
Growth Goals are specifically developed to enhance continuous improvement of the system. Each teacher shall have the final decision in developing an individual plan with specific goals, including the number and content of specific goals, subject to the goals being tied to the organizational goals. This plan is generated to enhance professional development with a support team. The support team includes the teacher and the teacher’s supervisor and may, as appropriate, include other staff members chosen by the teacher who shall be appropriate to selected goals. The leader of the team shall be the teacher. The
55	56
responsibility of the team is to help develop and support the growth goals and assist in assessing progress which may include an occasional review by the team. The plan includes growth goals which have an estimated time frame for completion and suggested activities. The teacher shall report progress on goals to the teacher's supervisor. The method of reporting progress on goals shall be mutually agreed to by the team. The teacher or the teacher's supervisor shall have the right to seek a review of the method of reporting agreed to by the team under Section A, Paragraph 4 of this article if the teacher or the teacher's supervisor disagrees with the method of reporting selected by the team. The growth plan should be submitted to the supervisor by the end of September or within thirty (30) days of returning to work. A teacher returning at any time other than the start of the school year, or who has a change in assignment, shall submit a growth plan within thirty (30) days. Those teachers assigned to more than one building shall coordinate their growth goals with the supervisor at their base school. For self-review, teachers keep documentation that illustrates progress toward goals. (See Professional Support File)
Paragraph 4: Focused Staff Support
Focused Staff Support is a voluntary, intensive system of support made available directly to individual teachers or teams. Its purpose is to:
(a)	Provide assistance only on the request of the teacher or team.
(b)	Provide assistance in terms of the teacher's or team's needs, expectations, goals and objectives.
(c)	Act as a support and resource for the professional
growth of teachers or teams helping them to develop skills to meet customer needs and expectations.
(d)	Respect the teacher's autonomy while encouraging collegial relationships.
(e)	Utilize existing support systems.
Paragraph 5: Professional Support File
The Professional Support File is a collection of selected individual work samples that demonstrate
the teacher's efforts and progress toward growth goals. The professional support file belongs to the teacher who created it and will be kept by that teacher who shall have the final decision regarding content of the professional file. Quality, not quantity, is emphasized. Examples that might be included in a professional support file are:
(a)	Verbal and written feedback from customers/ colleagues regarding service.
(b)	Reports or documents that support progress toward goals.
(c)	Video or audio taping of activities.
(d)	Publications/research/improvement team results.
(e)	A reflective journal.
(f)	Staff development activities.
(g)	Examples of situations in which teaming with others helped to make improvements.
Paragraph 6: Staff Development
Staff development consists of a variety of methods for individual teachers and groups to grow professionally. Staff development is intended to:
(a)	Help meet teacher growth goals and address customer/colleague needs.
(b)	Include inservices, workshop seminars, conferences, study groups, independent study, action research, applied training and leadership planning and other strategies as appropriate.
(c)	Provide time for thinking and reflecting; not just learning techniques, skills, and practices.
Paragraph 7: Professional Development Council
UTW shall oversee the selection of the teacher members in the Professional Development Council. The Professional Development Council shall ensure that inservice points are awarded in accordance with state regulations. For purposes of renewing a certificate or license, the Professional Development Council, in accordance with state law and regulations, shall not impose a limit on the number of professional development points that may be earned so long as such is required by state law and regulations.
57
58

Section D:	Orientation Phase
(For probationary teachers)
Paragraph 1: Orientation emphasizes initial employment, referred to as probationary and nontenured status, and includes two parts; mentoring and required staff development. The orientation phase is the set of processes and procedures which are provided to assist new employees in becoming successful members of the Wichita Public Schools, Unified School District 259.
Paragraph 2: Mentoring
Mentoring is the systematic provision of a counselor or guide for newly hired personnel. The values of mentoring include the opportunity to build relationships among professionals and the development of a shared language and a set of common understanding necessary for acclimating and orienting new teachers to the Wichita Public Schools procedures and practices.
(a)	Work sites will also provide a mentor for each new teacher. The mentor and new teacher could involve other personnel as needed to assist in activities. Up to seven hours of release time annually may be needed in the orientation component. The mentor must agree to accept the mentoring responsibility and receive training.
(b)	The mentor will have frequent communication with the new teacher and firsthand knowledge of the teacher’s job performance during the orientation period. The frequency of interactions may decrease but mentoring should continue to be available for the orientation period.
(c)	New teachers will be asked to keep a personal journal of questions, concerns, successes, and feel ings to discuss with the mentor at their meetings. The personal journal belongs to the teacher who created it and will be kept by that teacher. These reflections could drive what resources are needed to assist the new teacher.
(d)	Areas of support could include:
(1)	Systems information—giving information related to procedures, guidelines, and expectations.
(2)	Resources—collecting, disseminating or locating materials or other resources.
(3)	Professional information—giving information strategies related to the new teacher’s role.
(4)	Emotional support—through listening empathetically and sharing experiences.
(5)	Advice on scheduling and planning.
(6)	Advice on working with internal and external customers.
(7)	Co-facilitation of improvement planning, conferences, staffings, staff development activities and job shadowing experiences.
(8)	Participation in the development of the new teacher's professional growth plan. Outcomes from the first year's experiences would be important factors in setting up the goals for the following school year.
(e)	The supervisor, in collaboration with the new teacher, is responsible for identifying the mentor. The supervisor is responsible for having firsthand knowledge of the teacher's performance during the orientation period.
Paragraph 3: Required Staff Development
There are a number of staff development topics that are required of members of the Wichita Public Schools such as Diversity, Asbestos, Bloodborne Pathogens, Reporting Suspected Child Abuse, Drug Free Workplace, and Sexual Harassment.
Section E:	Plan of Assistance
(For third-year teachers and beyond)
Paragraph 1: The entire professional growth process is designed to be beneficial to the teacher and the organization in order to best meet the needs of customers. Through the Continuous Growth Plan, each teacher continues to receive support and assistance throughout his or her career. The Plan of Assistance is designed to be helpful. It is initiated when other means of the assistive process have not been successful and the supervisor determines
60
59
that the teacher needs additional assistance and support to maintain or achieve an acceptable level of performance. An analysis will be completed by the teacher, supervisor, and possible other resources to determine if the concem(s) are related to the system, personal-life situations, a need for training, skill development, or other reasons. The supervisor and teacher will develop the plan of assistance. The plan includes:
(a)	Statement or definition of concem(s).
(b)	Measurable expectation(s) for acceptable performance.
(c)	Individualized plan for improvement.
(d)	Resources to be committed by employer and teacher such as personalized staff development, correspondence, etc.
(e)	Specific timelines with scheduled review dates and recommended progress checks on six- to nine-week intervals.
(f)	Assessment of progress: re-enter the Continuous Plan, continue the Plan of Assistance with adjustments/modifications, or move into the termination process.
Paragraph 2: The supervisor reviews the teacher’s performance through the Plan of Assistance to determine the extent of improvement. Upon completion of this Plan, the supervisor recommends that the teacher re-enters the Continuous Growth Plan, continues the Plan of Assistance, or moves into the termination process. In summary, the Plan of Assistance is designed to provide a structured format to identify concem(s), develop a plan of action to address the concern(s), motivate and provide assistance and feedback on activities, and assist the teacher toward the professional growth cycle or career change.
Section F:	Continuous Improvement
Paragraph 1: The Staff Quality Improvement System will be reviewed annually to determine if the processes and procedures are meeting the guiding principles in Section A of this article and the needs and expectations of system customers. Improvements will be based on customer feedback. The Staff Quality Improvement System Committee shall continue to function as part of the annual review
process. The Staff Quality Improvement System Committee shall be comprised of equal numbers of persons appointed by SEIU, persons appointed by UTW and persons appointed by the Superintendent. A UTW member shall serve as chair or co-chair of the committee. Release time shall be provided to all committee members.
Section G:	Peer Consultant Program
Paragraph 1: The Peer Consultant Program represents collaboration between the Wichita Public Schools and the United Teachers of Wichita to provide assistance to new teachers in the district. The primary goal of the program is to provide help to teachers entering the profession to move their performance to a level of quality that provides success for all students.
Paragraph 2: There shall be a Governing Board that will consist of four (4) members selected by UTW and three (3) members selected by the Superintendent or designee. In addition, there will be two (2) alternates selected; one by UTW and one by the Superintendent or designee. The Governing Board will determine all specific details of the program and generally manage the program. The Governing Board will be co-chaired by one UTW representative and one member selected by the Superintendent or designee. A minimum of five (5) votes shall be necessary for the Board to make decisions.
Paragraph 3: There shall be four (4) consulting teachers for the 2003-04 school year. The Governing Board shall select the consultants. Selected teachers will demonstrate outstanding classroom teaching ability, be skilled in written and oral communication, and possess the ability to work cooperatively and confidentially with others. Each consulting teacher shall be a current classroom teacher with a minimum of five (5) years in USD 259. The consulting teacher will serve a one-year term with the possibility of serving three consecutive years. The Governing Board will conduct an annual review of each consulting teacher. The consulting teachers will serve in this capacity on a full-time basis with addendum days.
Paragraph 4: Each consulting teacher will be expected to serve no more than fifteen (15) new teachers. The Governing Board may adjust the number after discussions with the consulting teacher.
61
62
Consulting teachers will assist in new staff orientation, workshops, and graduate level course work as deemed appropriate by the Governing Board.
ARTICLE XVI: SCHOOL BUILDING COMMITTEE
Section A:	Purpose
Paragraph 1: The purpose of the School Building Committee shall be to identify problems at the building level and to work in an advisory capacity to the principal toward acceptable solutions. The School Building Committee shall involve itself in:
(a)	Problems relating to rules, procedures, policies, safety and security of pupils and teachers within the building, and any other matters pertaining to the operation of the school.
(b)	The planning, implementation, and evaluation of authorized building-based inservice programs.
(c)	Planning for those meetings involving pupils, parents, and community patrons.
(d)	The use of building staff allocation and scheduling.
(e)	Discussions and recommendations for revisions to the school discipline plan prior to its adoption and publication by the building principal.
Section B:	Organization
Paragraph 1: A School Building Committee shall be organized at each school attendance center as designated by this Article.
Paragraph 2: Membership of the School Building Committee shall consist of the following:
(a)	Chairperson
(1)	The UTW Professional Representative (Pro Rep) or his/ her designee shall serve as chairperson.
(2)	If the Pro Rep/designee declines to be chairperson, the committee shall elect a chairperson.
(b)	The principal
(c)	Teachers elected by and from the teachers based at the building
(1)	The number of committee members, in addition to the chairperson, principal and the classified member, shall be based on the following school enrollment:
Number of
Enrollment	Members
400 or fewer	3
401 to 800	5
801 to 1200	7
1201 to 1600	9
1601 to 2000	11
2001 or more	13
Paragraph 3: Election of the School Building Committee shall be as follows:
(a)	The election shall be conducted by the UTW or its designee prior to September 10 of each year.
(b)	All teachers assigned to the building shall be eligible to vote.
(c)	The elected members shall serve until a new committee is elected the following year.
(d)	One classified staff member shall be elected to serve on the committee and will be elected by the classified members assigned to the building.
Paragraph 4: Committee members shall be reported by September 20 of each year by the chairperson to the UTW.
Section C:	Bylaws
Paragraph 1: Each School Building Committee shall annually adopt its own bylaws subject to ratification by the teachers based at the building. Such bylaws shall include, but not be limited to:
(a)	A procedure for nomination of committee members.
63
64
(b)	A procedure for election of committee members by secret ballot before September 10 of each year.
(c)	A procedure for the selection of officers other than
the chairperson.
(d)	A procedure for filling committee vacancies.
(e)	A procedure for calling meetings, which shall be held at least once a month during the school year.
(f)	A procedure for setting of an agenda.
(g)	A procedure for notifying teachers of building meetings, place, date and agenda.
(h)	Provisions for school patrons, including pupils, or other citizens residing in the school attendance area to suggest items for the agenda and, subject to reasonable regulations of the committee, to meet with the committee to discuss items of concern.
(i)	A procedure for distributing minutes following each meeting.
Paragraph 2: The current bylaws adopted by the School Building Committee and ratified by the teachers shall be filed with the UTW.
Section D:	General Rules
Paragraph 1: Any teacher may submit to any committee member in the building, a written statement, signed or unsigned, of a problem for consideration by the committee, which shall be placed on the agenda for the next meeting.
Paragraph 2: Any item may be placed on the agenda by any committee member, including informal requests by another teacher.
Paragraph 3: Individual teachers may have a hearing before an ad hoc subcommittee of his/her choice for data input prior to consideration of a regular School Building Committee meeting.
Paragraph 4: The principal may provide the School Building Committee with secretarial services as may be available and agreed upon by the principal and the committee.
65
Paragraph 5: All School Building Committee meetings shall be open to teachers of the building.
Paragraph 6: No provision of this Article is to be interpreted in a fashion that would abridge the rights of any individual as established in this agreement or the statutory rights or responsibilities of the Superintendent or the Board.
Paragraph 7: The principal shall provide reports to the School Building Committee upon request regarding the activities of any committee which is in part or wholly composed of teachers that is appointed by the principal and which does not deal with confidential matters.
Section E:	Teacher Governance Model
Paragraph 1: The Board and UTW agree that the Teacher Governance Model which existed during the 2001-02 school year and first established in the 1992-93 school year may be an acceptable method of delivery of educational services upon meeting certain agreed upon criteria. This criteria would be similar to the criteria which existed during the 2001-02 school year. This criteria shall be determined no later than September 15 of each school year should there be a recommendation by either party to have a Teacher Governance school for the following school year.
Paragraph 2: The Board and the UTW agree to meet no later than October 15 of each year to determine the number of Teacher Governance schools for the following year.
Paragraph 3: Once established, a Teacher Governance Model school will be discontinued only in such circumstances that would cause a principal to be removed from that school or upon mutual agreement of the Board and UTW.
ARTICLE XVII: UTW RIGHTS
Section A:	Exclusive Rights
Paragraph 1: Exclusive Recognition
The Board recognizes the UTW for the purposes of negotiations as the exclusive representative of the teachers bargaining unit.
66
Paragraph 2: Exclusive Representation
The UTW shall participate in negotiations with the Board as the exclusive representative of all teachers in the teachers bargaining unit.
Paragraph 3: Exclusive Use of Temporary Leave For Negotiation Activities
Only teachers designated by the UTW shall be granted the use of temporary leave for the purpose of engaging in negotiations with the Board. Such leave shall be granted in accordance with the policy of the Board.
Section B:	Non-Exclusive Rights
Paragraph 1: Non-exclusive
Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit the Board from granting the same or similar rights to others.
Paragraph 2: Use of Facilities
UTW shall have the rights afforded to teachers in Article XI, Section A, Paragraph 1, and Section C, Paragraph 1, subject to the procedures set forth in Section D. UTW shall have the rights afforded teachers in Article XI, Section E subject to the conditions set forth in said section.
Paragraph 3: Use of Cablevision Channels
UTW, subject to the following, shall have the right to use the Board's cable television channels. Such use shall be limited to presenting material of an educational nature and purpose and such use shall be approved, arranged, or denied through the Division Director of Marketing and Communications or designee. The decision to approve or deny material presented for broadcasting shall rest with the Division Director or designee at the Division Director's or designee's sole discretion. The Division Director or designee shall have the right to place time limits on material that is approved and to schedule the time such material is to be broadcasted. In no event will material be approved for broadcasting which, in the opinion of the Division Director or designee, would be damaging to the labor/management relationship. Decisions rendered by the Division Director or designee pursuant to this paragraph are not subject to the grievance procedure.
Paragraph 4: Open Records
Upon written request from UTW, the Board shall provide UTW public information that is required
to be disclosed under the Kansas Open Records Act. Such information shall be furnished or made available within a reasonable time only in the form available. UTW shall not use such public information obtained from the Board for commercial purposes.
Paragraph 5: UTW Access to Board Meetings
A place shall be reserved on the agenda of each regular meeting of the Board of Education for matters that the UTW wishes to present to the Board of Education.
Paragraph 6: Temporary Leave
Teachers who are members of UTW, at the request of UTW, shall be granted leave to participate in certain UTW activities subject to and in accordance with policies of the board and administrative guidelines.
Paragraph 7: Meetings
Meetings to exchange ideas, offer suggestions, discuss policies and other subjects of mutual interest between Board representatives and UTW and/ or its representatives will be held at mutually agreeable times and places at the request of any of the above-named parties.
ARTICLE XVIII: REDUCTION AND RECALL
Section A; General
Paragraph 1: The teaching staff may be reduced by layoff at the discretion of the Board.
Paragraph 2: The greatest possible reduction in teaching staff shall be accomplished through attrition.
Paragraph 3: The reduction may be applied to all teachers or to only some group or groups thereof. The reduction shall be applied to the largest group or groups of teachers which may be reasonably considered. The Superintendent, subject to Board approval and after consultation with the UTW president, shall determine the group or groups of teachers from which the reduction shall be made.
Section B:	Selection
Paragraph 1: Within each specified group, teachers shall be selected by the Human Resources Division for layoff in the following order:
67
68
(a)	Teachers whose positions have been eliminated and who are not qualified to fill any vacant teaching position.
(b)	Probationary teachers.
(c)	Nonprobationary teachers who are on a disciplinary Plan of Assistance.
Paragraph 2: Within each subparagraph above, if two or more teachers are otherwise equally eligible for selection, teachers with shorter lengths of current employment will be selected before those with longer lengths. If two or more teachers remain equally eligible for selection, the order of selection of those teachers shall be decided through applying unbiased procedures developed and directed by the Human Resources Division.
Paragraph 3: Length of current employment shall be based on the date of employment specified by the Personnel data base.
Paragraph 4: Only those assessments forwarded to the Human Resources Division prior to an earlier date specified by the Superintendent will be considered in the implementation of this Article.
Paragraph 5: Any individual(s) within a specified group who is on or has requested an extended leave or sabbatical shall be eligible for selection for layoff under the conditions set forth herein.
Paragraph 6: As teachers are selected for layoff, their names shall be placed on a list in the order of their selection. A copy of the list shall be given to the UTW in a timely manner. If the UTW does not object in writing to the order of selection within five (5) days of receipt of the list, the list shall be final. If the UTW objects in writing to the order of selection within five (5) days of receipt of the list, said objection shall be in the form of a grievance initially filed at Level Two of the Grievance Procedure and shall be processed accordingly.
Section C:	Notice
Paragraph 1: Any teacher who is to be recommended for layoff shall be notified in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed effective date of such layoff and a copy of the notice shall be given to the UTW. Such notice shall include:
(a)	The basis for the initial decision for teaching staff reduction.
(b)	The reason(s) for the selection of the individual teacher.
(c)	A copy of this Article.
(d)	Notice to the individual teacher of an opportunity to respond.
Section D:	Rights
Paragraph 1: After implementing such a reduction procedure, the list of names of laid off teachers shall be maintained for two (2) years.
Paragraph 2: Any teacher who has been so laid off shall no longer be considered an employee and shall have no employee rights or benefits other than those required by law or by this agreement.
Paragraph 3: Any teacher who has been so laid off may retain membership in the Board provided health coverage plan. However, the Board shall make no contribution and the teacher must make advance arrangements for payment of premiums with the Business/Financial Services Division.
Paragraph 4: It is the responsibility of the listed laid off teachers to keep the Human Resources Division informed of their current address and any changes in teaching qualifications.
Paragraph 5: If a vacancy occurs within two (2) years for which any teacher named on the list qualifies, the position shall be offered to the teacher whose name was most recently placed on the list and who qualifies for such vacancy. However, the Board is not obligated to offer any teacher a position of greater full-time equivalency than that teacher had when he/ she was laid off. The usual employment procedures will be followed in determining fitness for recall.
Paragraph 6: If any teacher named on the list waives recall rights in writing, fails to accept recall to a position for which the teacher is qualified, fails to respond within ten (10) days to a recall notice sent to the latest address which the teacher has furnished
69
70
to the Human Resources Division, or fails to report for duty in the accepted position, the name of such teacher shall be removed from the list and such teacher shall have no further recall rights.
Paragraph 7: Any teacher who is recalled shall regain all employment benefits to which he/she was entitled at the time of layoff. However, no benefits may be accrued during the period of unemployment and the teacher shall be subject to all changes in employment conditions which have been made in the interim.
Paragraph 8: Any teacher who has been so laid off may apply for assignment as a substitute teacher.
Paragraph 9: No layoff covered under this Article shall be considered a termination or nonrenewal under K.S.A. 1979 Supp. 72-5436, et. seq. or K.S.A. 72-5411. However, application of this Article shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE XIX: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section A:	Purpose and Definitions
Paragraph 1: The purpose of this grievance procedure shall be to resolve good faith differences of opinion regarding the interpretation or application of this agreement.
Paragraph 2: Grievance: Any alleged violation or misapplication of this agreement or Board Policy 5112 including Administrative Implemental Procedures.
Paragraph 3: Grievant: A teacher who has filed a grievance or, in the case of a group grievance, the UTW.
Section B:	Time Limitations
Paragraph 1: The time limitations specified at each level may be extended by mutual agreement between the grievant or his/her representative and the Superintendent or designee.
Paragraph 2: When the term "days" is used herein, unless otherwise specified, it shall mean contract days during the school year and calendar days between school years.
Section C:	Informal Level
Paragraph 1: Prior to filing a grievance in writing and within fourteen (14) days after the occurrence of the event upon which it is based, the grievant and his/her representative, if any, shall attempt to resolve the matter informally by requesting a meeting with the immediate supervisor. Such a meeting shall be held within seven (7) days after the request is made.
Paragraph 2: Lack of adherence to informal level remedy shall retain grievance status.
Section D:	Level One
Paragraph 1: If the matter is not resolved informally to the satisfaction of the grievant, the grievance must be filed in writing with the grievant's immediate supervisor within seven (7) days after the first informal meeting and a copy of such grievance shall be forwarded to the UTW's President or designee and the Superintendent or designee.
Paragraph 2: Within seven (7) days after receiving the Level I grievance, the immediate supervisor may, at his I her option, hold a discussion meeting with . the grievant and his/her representative, if any. Within seven (7) days after the discussion meeting, if one is held, or within seven (7) days after the grievance is filed in writing, the immediate supervisor shall make a decision in writing, together with the supporting reasons. Copies shall be forwarded to the grievant, the grievant's representative, if any, the UTW's President or designee and the Superintendent or designee.
Paragraph 3:
(a)	UTW, as an alternative to the informal level and to a teacher(s) filing a Level One grievance, may file with the Superintendent an alternative Level One grievance in circumstances where the otherwise grievant(s) has a genuine concern that the filing of a grievance might result in retaliation being taken by the grievant's immediate supervisor. The President of UTW shall verify to the Superintendent that the person who would otherwise file the grievance has a genuine concern that the filing of a grievance might result in retaliation being taken by the otherwise grievant's immediate supervisor. It is understood by UTW that the Board does not tolerate retaliation by
71
72
supervisors against persons who file grievances and UTW agrees that it will cooperate with the Superintendent regarding the addressing and eliminating of situations where retaliation may be occurring.
(b)	Upon the filing of an alternative Level One grievance, UTW shall file a written statement that sets out the alleged violation or misapplication of this Agreement or Board Policy 5112 including Administrative Implemental Procedures. If the matter is not informally resolved between the Superintendent and UTW to the satisfaction of the person(s) who would otherwise have filed the grievance within ten (10) days after the grievance is filed, then the Superintendent and President shall meet at their mutual earliest convenience. Upon such meeting the Superintendent and President shall select a neutral person as a hearing officer to serve on a panel with the UTW President and the Superintendent to decide whether there was a violation or misapplication of this Agreement or Board Policy 5112, including Administrative Implemental Procedures. The decision of the panel shall be final.
Section E:	Level Two
Paragraph 1: Within seven (7) days after receiving the decision at Level One, the grievant may appeal the decision in writing to the Superintendent. The grievant shall forward copies to the immediate supervisor, the grievant's representative if any, the UTW's President or designee, and the Superintendent or designee.
Paragraph 2: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of the written appeal or a grievance filed at Level Two, the Superintendent or designee will meet with the grievant and/or representative of the UTW and all parties of interest in an effort to resolve the grievance.
Paragraph 3: Within fourteen (14) days after the meeting specified in Paragraph 2 above, the Superintendent or designee shall make a decision in writing. Copies shall be forwarded to the grievant, the immediate supervisor, the grievant's representative if any, the UTW's President or designee, and the Superintendent or designee.
Section F:	Level Three
Paragraph 1: Within twenty (20) days after receiving the decision at Level Two, the grievant may appeal the decision of the Superintendent or designee to arbitration. The grievant shall forward copies of the request for arbitration to the grievant's representative if any, the UTW's President or designee, and the Superintendent or designee.
Paragraph 2: Within ten (10) days after the receipt of the request for arbitration, die parties shall jointly request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a panel of seven (7) arbitrators. The right to first strike a name shall be determined by the flip of a coin. The parties shall then alternately strike names from the list until one name remains. The person whose name remains shall be the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall be notified of his/her selection by a joint letter from the grievant and the district, requesting that he/ she set a time and place for the hearing subject to the availability of the parties, and the letter shall specify by stipulation the issue to be determined by the arbitrator. In the event that the parties are unable to agree on the issue by stipulation after a good faith effort, the letter shall state the proposed issue of each party.
Paragraph 3: The arbitrator shall have no right to add to, subtract from, nullify, ignore or modify any of the terms of this agreement. He/ she shall consider and decide only the stipulated issue presented to him/ her in writing by the district and the grievant, and his/her decision and award shall be based solely on his/her interpretation of the application of the terms of the agreement to the issue stipulated. If the parties were unable to stipulate the issue, the arbitrator shall first determine the issue to be decided as presented by one party or the other without alteration. If the matter presented to the arbitrator does not involve interpretation of the terms or provisions of this agreement, the arbitrator shall so rule in his/her award and shall make no other decision on the issue. The arbitrator shall render no award under this agreement which shall be retroactive beyond the date of the event on which the grievance is based. The award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the Board, the UTW, and the grievant involved.
73
74
Paragraph 4: The arbitrator so selected shall fix the time and place for the arbitration and notify the parties thereof. In any disciplinary grievance, the arbitrator shall have no authority to alter or amend any discipline imposed by the district if the arbitrator finds either that the district's actions did not violate the agreement, or that there was just cause for the action.
Paragraph 5: No arbitration decision made hereunder shall constitute a binding precedent with respect to any renewal of the existing agreement or the making of a new agreement between the UTW and the Board. The force and effect of arbitration decisions shall expire when the agreement expires unless the language involved is substantially the same in the expired agreement and the new agreement.
Paragraph 6: No decision of the arbitrator in any one case shall create a basis for retroactive adjustment in any other case which arose prior to the date of the written decision of the arbitrator, unless the UTW and the district mutually agree otherwise in writing.
Paragraph 7: The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne by the party losing the arbitration case. As part of his/ her award, the arbitrator shall specifically assess these fees and expenses to one party or the other party or allocate the same between the parties pursuant to this paragraph. Each party shall be responsible for its own arbitration expenses. The party producing any witnesses shall pay the expenses of said witness, if any. Upon request of either party, an official court reporter shall record the proceedings, and the party making such request shall pay the cost of the reporter. If the other party requests a copy of the proceeding, that party shall share equally the costs of the reporter.
Section G:	Rights of Representation
Paragraph 1: At any level of the grievance procedure at the grievant's option, the grievant shall be represented by the UTW, himself/herself, legal counsel, or another person selected by the grievant.
Paragraph 2: If a grievant is not represented by the UTW, the UTW shall have the right to be present and to state its views of all levels of the grievance procedure.
Section H:	General Provisions
Paragraph 1: If a grievance affects a group or a class of teachers, and at least one affected teacher so desires, the UTW may initiate and submit such grievance in writing to the Superintendent directly and the processing of such grievance wrill commence at Level Two.
Paragraph 2: If a grievance arises because of an act of commission or omission on the part of a member of the administration at a level above the grievant's immediate supervisor, the grievant shall submit such grievance in writing to the Superintendent and the processing of such grievance will commence at Level Two.
Paragraph 3: Forms for filing and appealing grievances will be prepared and distributed jointly by the Superintendent and the UTW. The costs of preparing such forms shall be borne by the Board.
Paragraph 4: A grievance must be filed on an official form. In filing a grievance, the grievant shall make every reasonable effort to state specifically what was done, who did it, when it was done, the language which was violated, how it was violated, and the remedy requested. If the form is not completed in accordance with this paragraph, the grievance may be returned to the grievant for completion together with a notice regarding the incomplete parts. If the form is then completed and filed within five (5) days, the grievance shall be considered to be no less timely than it was when previously submitted. For purposes of processing the grievance, the filing date shall be the date the completed form is filed.
Paragraph 5: The confidentiality of the proceedings will be respected by all parties to the degree that it is consistent with the procedure described. The grievant's right to continued processing of a grievance filed by him/her shall be conditioned upon there being no deliberate violation of this confidentiality by him/her. The publicizing of the general issues involved in a grievance which does not permit identification of the participants shall not be construed as a breach of this confidentiality.
Paragraph 6: Nothing contained herein is to be construed as limiting the right of a teacher having a grievance or an involved administrator to discuss the matter
75
76
informally with any appropriate person in an effort to have the matter adjusted in a mutually satisfactory manner, provided that such adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this agreement.
Paragraph 7: A decision at any level of the procedure in favor of the grievant may recommend appropriate restitution or other remedy for the period during which the grievance was suffered but no restitution or remedy shall be retroactive beyond the date that the grievance was filed.
Paragraph 8: Any decision rendered at any level of the procedure which is contrary to this agreement or law shall be null and void.
Paragraph 9: If any teacher is required to attend a meeting or hearing called by the Board or the central administrative staff, the teacher's immediate supervisor shall be notified that the teacher is to be released without loss of pay for such time as attendance is required for the meeting or hearing.
Paragraph 10: Grievances, grievance appeals, grievance communications and grievance findings will not be filed in the personnel file of any teacher. If such a grievance file is maintained, it shall be open for inspection by the grievant upon request.
Paragraph 11: Every effort shall be made by all parties to avoid the involvement of pupils in any phase of the grievance procedure.
Paragraph 12: No teacher shall be subject to reprisal or discrimination by reason of participation or nonparticipation in the grievance procedure.
Paragraph 13: If a teacher pursues any legal or statutory remedy for an issue, then any further or subsequent proceedings for relief through the grievance procedure shall be barred unless the court or administrative agency refuses jurisdiction until all administrative remedies have been exhausted.
Paragraph 14: With the consent of the grievants involved and the Superintendent or designee, similar grievances may be consolidated and processed together as a single grievance. Such consolidation shall not be construed as preventing any grievant from appealing a decision to the next level. Once
consolidated, a grievance may be separated only with the consent of the Superintendent or designee. However, consolidated grievances shall not be presented to arbitration without the mutual consent of the parties involved.
ARTICLE XX: PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION
The Board shall print copies of this agreement at its expense to be distributed to all members of the bargaining unit. The Board shall furnish 250 printed copies of the agreement to the UTW.
ARTICLE XXI: WICHITA AREA TECHNICAL COLLEGEPOSTSECONDARY
Section A:	General
Paragraph 1: The purpose of this article is to recognize the differences between PreK-12 and postsecondary programs, to provide the ability on the part of WATC to compete with other postsecondary institutions, and to meet the postsecondary educational needs of the community. In addition, the purpose is to provide WATC with the ability to meet accreditation, certification, and other requirements for programs offered by WATC.
Section B:	Deletions and Amendments/ Postsecondary Teachers
Paragraph 1: The provisions of the Teacher Employment Agreement, except as deleted and/or amended in this Article XXI, shall apply to and be in full force and effect as to postsecondary teachers. The following paragraphs of the Teacher Employment Agreement, as to postsecondary teachers, shall be deleted and/ or amended to read as follows:
Section C:	Professional Year - Postsecondary Teachers
Paragraph 1: Contract Days
(a)	The base contract year for postsecondary classroom teachers, based on state and national accreditation standards, may be 240 days. The base contract year for postsecondary classroom teachers teaching in Practical Nurse, Surgical
77
78
u

Technology, Geriatric Aide, Transportation, and Aviation Maintenance programs shall be between 186-240 days. Mid-year changes to the length of the contract may be made with approval of the UTW President.
(b)
(1)	Contract days for postsecondary teachers hired after June 30,2000, shall be scheduled Monday through Saturday, between the first and last workday of each contract year. The time such teacher spends at school shall not exceed 35 hours and 50 minutes per week. Such teachers, unless the teacher agrees otherwise, shall work not more than five (5) days per week. The WATC administration shall provide a report to UTW by May 10 of each year that identifies (without identifying the teacher) the classes that were held on Saturday and that identifies how many teachers worked a total of five (5) days per week including Saturday and how many teachers agreed to other arrangements that resulted in the teacher working six (6) days per week. Contract days for postsecondary classroom teachers hired before July 1, 2000 shall be scheduled on weekdays, Monday through Friday, between the first and last workday of each contract year; provided, however, such teacher may volunteer, subject to terms and conditions agreed to by such teacher and the WATC administration, to teach Saturday classes.
(2)	Provisions of Paragraph 1 (b) (1) above shall apply to postsecondary transportation instructors provided, however, the time postsecondary transportation instructors spend on the job shall not exceed forty (40) hours per week. Time schedules for conferences and preparation for postsecondary tranportation instructors shall be determined by program needs as identified by the WATC President. Postsecondary transportation instructors shall be assigned workdays that do not exceed eight (8) hours, and they shall be provided with a one (1) hour duty-free lunch per day that is in addition to the not to exceed eight (8) hour workday.
Paragraph 2: Workshop Inservice Training Day
During each contract year, WATC postsecondary classroom teachers shall be guaranteed at least
one day between October 1 and April 15 on any Monday through Friday for the purpose of a workshop or inservice training. The WATC President, in consultation with the Faculty Council, shall schedule the time to be taken.
Paragraph 3: Each postsecondary teacher shall have one and one-half uninterrupted days in his/her classroom during the pre-school teachef report days. In order to accommodate other campus/ college requirements, it may be necessary to divide these days into three one-half (1/2) day segments.
Paragraph 4:WATC postsecondary classroom teachers shall be provided one full day of uninterrupted time at the end of the first and second semesters. An additional day will be provided for teachers for inservice/staff development at the end of the first semester. This day may be designated to work on accreditation.
Paragraph 5: School Calendar
The WATC school calendar adopted by the Board is set forth herein as Appendix B.
Paragraph 6: New Teacher Orientation
Prior to teachers report day, the administration may schedule up to three (3) days for the purpose of orientating newly employed teachers. WATC postsecondary teachers shall attend one districtwide new teacher orientation day. The other two days may be designed and conducted separately by the WATC administration to meet the specific needs of WATC postsecondary teachers. UTW shall be given the opportunity to present items of mutual interest on one of these days on the same basis as is provided to K-12 teachers.
Section D:	Professional Day - Postsecondary Teachers
Paragraph 1: Except as otherwise provided in this Article XXI, the ending time for postsecondary classroom teachers may be eight (8) hours after the beginning time, not to exceed 35 hours and 50 minutes per week except for teachers hired after June 30, 2002. Depending on program needs, postsecondary classroom teachers hired after June 30, 2002 may be required to work a split schedule not to exceed 35 hours and 50 minutes per week.
79
80
Paragraph 2: WATC postsecondary classroom teachers shall attend necessary staff meetings at the direction of the respective division director or designee.
Section E:	Compensation - Postsecondary Teachers
Paragraph 1: Placement
(1)	At the time of employment as a contract teacher, WATC postsecondary degreed and nondegreed teachers shall be given full credit for qualified occupational experience, subject to approval by the Division of Human Resources. Such teachers shall be given one (1) year credit for every 1,086 hours of classroom instruction they provide as a part-time WATC postsecondary teacher.
(2)	WATC postsecondary non-degreed teachers employed prior to August 1, 1996, will be allowed to continue employment without a degree. Those on a Professional Growth Plan prior to August 1,2001, or those who have filed a Professional Growth Plan prior to August 1, 2001, and such plan is approved prior to their receiving a degree, shall have a choice of remaining on the Professional Growth Plan or moving to the Teachers Salary Schedule.
(3)	WATC postsecondary non-degreed teachers employed between August 1,1996 and July 31, 2001, shall complete a baccalaureate degree within seven (7) years of the date they are employed. WATC postsecondary nonbaccalaureate degreed teachers employed between August 1,1996 and July 31,2001 who hold an associate degree shall complete a baccalaureate degree within five (5) years of the date they are employed. Such teachers who fail to complete a baccalaureate degree within these required time periods shall be nonrenewed unless an exception is granted by the Assistant superintendent of Human Resources upon recommendation of the President of WATC. Such teachers who are on a Professional Growth Plan prior to August 1, 2001, or those who have filed a Professional Growth Plan prior to August 1, 2001, and such plan is approved prior to their receiving a degree, shall have a choice of remaining on the Professional Growth Plan or moving to the Teachers Salary Schedule.
(4)	WATC postsecondary non-baccalaureate degreed teachers employed after August 1, 2001, shall be placed on the B.A. Degree track of the Teachers Salary Schedule and shall remain on this track until they receive a degree. Such teachers shall not be eligible to participate in a Professional Growth Plan. Such nondegreed teachers shall have seven (7) years from the date of employment to obtain a baccalaureate degree. Such teachers who hold an associate degree shall complete a baccalaureate degree within five (5) years from the date of employment. Such teachers who do not receive a baccalaureate degree within these required time periods shall be non-renewed unless an exception is granted by the Assistant Superintendent of Human Resources upon recommendation of the President of WATC.
Paragraph 2: Teachers in Technical Programs
Normally, teachers of technical courses in the WATC shall be employed in accordance with the salary provisions of other teachers. However, in unusual circumstances, the Superintendent may authorize the employment of a teacher in a technical WATC program at an agreed upon salary. In addition, postsecondary transportation instructors hired before July 1, 2001 shall be paid at Step 6, Bachelor Track of the Teachers Salary Schedule plus the daily rate of Step 6, Bachelor Track for assignments exceeding 186 days.
Paragraph 3: Supplemental Salary Schedule Level C: (.075)	$2,160
Postsecondary Lead Sponsor - BPA,HOSA,VICA
Paragraph 4: Pay for Temporary Substituting
A postsecondary classroom teacher who, during his /her conference and preparation time and at the request of the administration, assumes teaching responsibilities for a class of pupils regularly assigned at that time to another classroom teacher is performing as a temporary substitute teacher arid will be compensated at the rate of $25.00 per hour or major fraction thereof. Such compensation shall not be paid for more than one such hour per day. A postsecondary classroom teacher who accepts a substitute assignment on second shift shall receive $20.00 per hour.
81
82
1
Section F:	Pupil Control
Paragraph 1: Pupil Misbehavior
When, in the judgment of a teacher, a postsecondary student should be informed in writing of his/her misbehavior, the teacher should notify the appropriate administrator/supervisor. A conference between the postsecondary student, teacher(s) and/or administrator/supervisor should be scheduled and/or other appropriate disciplinary action taken.
Paragraph 2: Temporary Removal of Pupil from Classroonyinstructional Setting
When, in the judgment of a teacher, a postsecondary student is substantially disrupting the program to the detriment of other pupils, the teacher may remove the student from his/her class or instructional setting for the remainder of the day. The student will be instructed to report immediately to the appropriate administrator/ supervisor. Following the decision to remove the student, the teacher will advise the administrator/ supervisor of the action and as soon as possible will furnish full particulars in writing. A Statement of Action, written by the adminstrator and the instructor, shall be reviewed with the student by the administrator and instructor. This Statement of Action form shall outline the expectations for the student's continued attendance in class. The administrator, student, and teacher shall sign the Statement of Action. Appropriate written records of such temporary removals shall be maintained by the administrator/supervisor and teacher, and shall be available to the parties upon request.
Paragraph 3: Readmittance of Pupil to the Classroom, Lab or Contracted Learning Area
A student shall not be readmitted into any class instructed by the teacher who removed the student during the day in which the student was removed unless there is a mutual agreement between the teacher and the administrator/supervisor. A student shall not be readmitted to a college contracted learning area outside the classroom during the day in which the student was removed unless there is a mutual agreement between the college administration and the contracted learning area.
Section G:	WATC Faculty Council
Paragraph 1: The purpose of the WATC Faculty Council shall be to give the faculty the opportunity and forum for the systematic and comprehensive review of the educational offerings and services of the Wichita Area Technical College as more fully detailed and set forth in the Faculty Council bylaws. In addition, the Faculty Council shall involve itself in an advisory capacity to the WATC President in the following subjects that involve issues that affect more than one WATC campus:
(a)	Problems relating to rules, procedures, policies safety and security of pupils and W ATC instructors, and any other matters pertaining to the operation of the Wichita Area Technical College.
I
(b)	The planning, implementation, and evaluation of WATC authorized inservice programs.
(c)	Planning for those activities involving pupils, parents, and community patrons.
(d)	The use of WATC staff allocation and scheduling.
1
Paragraph 2: Each of the following specialty areas shall be represented on the Faculty Council: Aviation, Business, Commercial Driver, Health and Human Services, Technical Education and Business Partnerships. The number of representatives each specialty area shall be entitled to shall be as follows: 1-10 full-time instructors (1 representative); 11-20 full-time instructors (2 representatives); over twenty full-time instructors (3 representatives). Any newly created specialty area shall use the same formula.
Paragraph 3: The instructional faculty, represented by UTW, in each specialty area shall select its representative(s) by secret ballot election, conducted by the UTW designee.
Paragraph 4: The President of WATC or designee shall serve as administrative representative without voting privileges.
Paragraph 5: The Faculty Council shall develop bylaws which shall not conflict with provisions in this Agreement. After each revision, a copy of the bylaws shall be given to UTW.
83
84
APPENDIX A
Paragraph 6: Any WATC Instructor may submit to any Faculty Council member a written statement, signed or unsigned, of a problem for consideration by the Faculty Council, which shall be placed on the agenda for the next meeting.
Wichita Public Schools 2003-04 K-12 CALENDAR
August		2003
M T	W T		F_
		1
		
4	5	6	7	8
11 12	13	14	15
IBM-	® [21]	|22|
'25 26	27	28	29 >
September		2003
M T	W T		F_
LD 2	3	4	5
8	9	10	11	12
15 16	17	18	19
22 23	24	25	26
29 30		
October		2003
M T	W T		F_
	1	2	3
6	7	8	9	10
13 14	15	16	17
20 21	22	23	[ 24]
27 28	29	30	31
November		2003
M T	W T		F_
3	4 .	5	6	7
10 (11)	12	13	14
17 18	19	20	21
22	25	C2&) (27	28)
December		2003
M T	W T		F_
1	2	3	4	5
8	9	10	11	12
15 16	17	18	19
22 23	(24	25	26)
29 30	31	
January		2004
M T	W T		F
	CL	I	2_
5	6	7	8	9
12	13	14	15	16
	20	21	22	23
26	27	28	29	30
February					2004
M	T	W	T		F
2	3	4	5	6
9	10	11	12	QSJ
16	17	18	19	20
23	24	25	26	27
March				2004
M	T	W	T		F
1	2	3	4	5
8	9	10	11	12
15	16	17	18	
(22	23	24	25	26)
29	30	31		
April				2004
M	T	W	T		F_
			1	2
5	6	7	8	m
12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21	22	23
26	27	28	29	30
May				2004
M	T	W	T		F
3	4	5	6	7
10	11	12	13	14
17	18	19	20	21
24	25	26	27	28.
(31)				
June				2004
M	T	W	T		F
		2	3		4_
[ 7		9	10	11
14	15	16	17	18
21	22	23	24	25
28]	29	30		
Jub	y			2004
M	T	W	T	F
			1		2_
_L5J	6	7	8		9_
12	13	14	15		16
19	20	21	22		23
_2L_	27	28	29	
85
___ School not in session (___) Administrative offices closed
S Conference Release Days
District inservice days and/or Nonteaching Duty Days
< > Heat Plan
NOTE: This calendar may be altered at the discretion of the
Board of Education and/or the administration.
86
;________________________________________________________
APPENDIX B
APPENDIX A 2003-2004 K-12 CALENDAR Month	Date
August	Orientation for new teachers ..............13,14,15
District inservice/Nonteaching duty days......18-22
First day of school.............................25
Sept.	Labor Day Holiday.................................1
Official beginning enrollment...................22
Oct.	District inservice/nonteaching duty day..........24
Report cards issued (all levels)................31
Nov.	Veterans Day Holiday.............................11
Conference Release Day..........................26
Fall Recess..................................27-28
Dec. Winter Recess....................................22-Jan.	2
Jan.	New Year Holiday..................................1
Nonteaching duty day..............................1	6
Martin Luther King, Jr.
Birthday Observance........................1 9
Report cards issued (all levels)................23
Feb.	District-wide inservice day.....................1 3
March	Non teaching duty day............................19
Spring Recess................................22-26
April	Report cards issued (all levels)..................2
District-wide inservice day......................9
May	Last day of school...............................27
Elementary report cards issued..................27
Non teaching duty day...........................28
Memorial Day Holiday............................31
June	Conference Release Day............................1
Secondary report cards issued....................4
Summer School.................................7-29
July Independence Day Holiday...........................5
REPORT PERIODS Elementary and High School
August 25 through October 24 ......................43	days
October 27 through January 16......................45 days
January 19 through March 19........................42 days
March 29 through May 28 ...........................43	days
Total days.................................................173	days
(Inservice days not counted in grading periods)
NOTE: This calendar may be altered at the discretion of the Board
of Education and/or the administration.
Wichita Public Schools
WATC 2003-04 CALENDAR
August	2003	February	2004
M T W	T	F	M T W T F
(5/	O S |1I|	12	13	14	15 18	19	20	21	22 25	26	27	28	29 September	2003	2	3	4	5	6 9	10	11	12	13 [16]	17	18	19	20 23	24	25	26	27 March	2004
M T W	T	F	M T W T F
ID	2	3	4	5 8	9	10	11	12 15	16	17	18	19 22	23	24	25	26 29	30 October	2003	1	2	3	4	5 8	9	10	11	12 15	16	17	18	19 (22 23	24	25	26)
	29 30	31 April	2004
M T W T F	M T W T F
12	3 6	7	8	9	10 13	14	15	16	17 20	21	22	23	24 27	28	29	30	31 November	2003	1	2 5	6	7	8	9 12	13	14	15	16 19	20	21	22	23 26	27	28	29	30 May 	2004
M T W T F	M T W	T	F
3	4	5	6	7 10	(ID	12	13	14 17	18	19	20	21 24 25	26 ( 27	28) December	2003	3	4	5	6	7 10	11	12	13	14 17	18	19	20	21 24	25	26	[27]	28 hi) June	2004
M T W T F	M T W T F
1	2	3	4	5 8	9	10	11	12 15	16	17	18	19 [22]	[23|	(24	25	26)	12	3	4 7	8	9	10	11 14	15	16	17	18 21	22	23	24	25 28	29	30
29 30	31	
January 2004
M	_	__	_	_
(1)	2
_5_____6__2_____8_2.
12	13	14	15	16
(19 )	20	21	22	23
26	27	28	29	30
July_____________2004
M	T	W	T	F
1	2
( 5)	6	7	8	9
12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21	22	23
26	27	28	29	30
session
_____School not ii
| | WATC Inservice/Non teaching duty days
(2)	WATC New Teacher Orientation
( ) Administrative offices CLOSED no school
87
NOTE: This calendar may be altered at the discretion of the Board of Education and/or the WATC administration.
88
1
APPENDIX B 2003-2004 WATC CALENDAR
Month	Date
August	WATC Orientation for New Teachers..............5-7
WATC Non teaching Duty Days..................8,	11
First day of Fall Semester.....................12
Sept.	Labor Day Holiday................................1
Nov.	Veterans Day Holiday............................11
Fall Recess.................................27-28
Dec.	Last Day Fall Semester..........................19
WATC Inservice/Non-teaching duty day.........22-23
Winter Recess...........................24-Jan.	12
Adminstrative Offices Closed................24-26
Jan.	Adminstrative Offices Closed.....................1
New Year Holiday................................1
First day of Spring Semester...................13
Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday Observance.............................19
Feb.	WATC Teacher Inservice..........................16
March	Spring Recess................................22-26
May	Last day of Spring Semester.....................26
Graduation.....................................27
Teacher Report Day.............................27
Memorial Day Holiday...........................31
June	First day of Summer Semester.....................1
Last day of Summer Semester: ...4-week schedule.............................28
July	Independence Day Holiday.........................5
Last day of Summer Semester: ...5-week	schedule.............................6
...6 week	schedule............................13
...7-week	schedule............................20
...8-week	schedule............................27
August
2004 Last day of Summer Semester: ...9-week	schedule............................3
I	..10-week schedule..............................10
WATC Inservice/Nonteaching	Duty Days	6.0
Instructional Days	180.0
Total Contract Days	186.0
NOTE: This calendar may be altered at the discretion of the Board of Education and/or the WATC administration.
89
CL_____________________—------------------—-------- --
AGREEMENT Between The Board of Education, of USD 259 Wichita, Kansas and United Teachers of Wichita August 1,2003 - July 31,2004
________/s/ Barbara Fuller__________.
President, United Teachers of Wichita
September 8,2003_____________
Date
/s/ Michael Kinard President, Board of Education
September 8,2003_______
Date