AGREEMENT
Between
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
and the
EMPLOYEES REPRESENTED BY
THE BOULDER VALLEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
of the
BOULDER VALLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT RE2J
EFFECTIVE DATES:
July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2006
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SECTION A: GENERAL PROVISIONS
1	Adherence to Agreement	6
2	School Board Responsibilities	6
3	Effect of Agreement	7
4	Savings Clause	7
5	Definitions	7
5.4	Seniority	8
6	Recognition	8
7	Election Procedures	9
SECTION B:	NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURE	
1	Scope	9
2	Representation and Logistics of Negotiations	9
3	Initiation	9
4	Procedures	9
5	Negotiations	9
6	Procedure for Impasse	10
7	Adoption and Ratification of Agreement	12
8	Interim Negotiations	13
SECTION C:	DUTIES OF THE EMPLOYEE	
1	Professional Duties	13
2	Board Policies	13
3	Contract Year	14
4	School Calendar	14
5	Teaching Hours and Teaching Load	14
6	Elementary Class Size	15
7	Secondary Student Load	16
8	Grade Reporting Deadlines	16
9	Paraeducators	17
10	Department Chairpersons and Team Leaders	17
11	Staff Meetings	17
12	Additional Requirements	17
13	Classroom Vacancies	17
14	Student Discipline	18
15	Use of Physical Force	18
1
Page
16	Legal Counsel	19
17	Transportation of Students	19
18	Assignment of Specialists	19
19	Staffing	20
20	Assessment	20
21	Special Education	20
22	Opening, Closing, and Reorganizing Schools	20
23	Assessment (electronic)	21
24	Literacy	21
25	First Steps	21
26	Technology	21
27	Special Education (504)	22
28	Property Protection/Employee Responsibility for Funds	22
SECTION D:	EMPLOYMENT	
1	Non-Discrimination	23
2	Health Examination	23
3	Probation	23
4	Employment Status	23
5	Evaluation	23
6	Evaluation Sequence	24
7	Probationary Employees	24
8	Non-Probationary Employees: Level I	26
9	Non-Probationary Employees: Level II	28
9.6	General Provisions	31
10	Public Complaints	33
11	Just Cause	33
12	Employee Assignments	33
13	Personal and Professional Growth	34
14	Transfer	34
15	Notification of Vacancies	34
16	Filling Vacancies	35
17	Voluntary Transfers	35
18	Administrative Transfers	36
19	Involuntary Transfers	36
20	Reduction in Force	37
21	Qualifications	39
22	Resignation and Reemployment	40
23	Substitutes	40
24	Student Teachers	40
25	Administrative Positions	40
2
Page
26	Learning Materials	40
27	Curriculum Development	41
28	Performance Contracting	41
29	Salary Notification and Changes	41
30	Employee Exchange	41
31	Limited Term/Temporary Contract	42
SECTION E: COMPENSATION
1	Compensation Rate	43
2	Pay Periods	44
3	Mileage	44
4	Classroom Vacancies	44
5	Credit Hours	44
6	Curriculum Development	44
7	Inservice Education Rate	44
8	Special Education Stipends	44
9	Career Stipends	45
10	Career Longevity Stipend	45
11	Librarians	45
12	Counselors	45
13	Employee Salary Schedule	46
14	Counselor Salary Schedule	47
15	Salary Schedule for Psychologists &Social Workers	48
16	Extra Pay for Extra Duty	49
17	Department Chairperson	54
17	Outdoor Education	54
18	Vocational-Technical Salary Schedule	54
19	Qualifications and Requirements of Vocational-	
	Technical Salary Schedule	55
20	Health, Hospitalization and Life Insurance	56
21	Long Term Disability Insurance	56
22	Dental Insurance	56
23	Plan Contents	56
24	Liability Insurance	56
25	Insurance Committee	57
26	PERA and Workers’ Compensation	57
26.1	PERA Matchmaker Program	57
26.2	PERA Sick Leave Conversion	57
27	Annual Leave	58
27.11	Religious Holiday Leave	60
28	Sick Leave Bank	60
29	Injury Leave	62
30	Bereavement Leave	63
31	Time Off to Vote	63
3
Page
32	Jury Duty	64
33	Court Appearances	64
34	Military Leave	64
35	Return Right - Replacement	65
36	Notification	65
37	Leave of Absence for Improvement of Health	65
38	Leave for Governmental Service	65
39	Family Medical Leave Act	66
40	Extended Absences for Personal Reasons	66
41	Leave for Professional Study	67
42	Vocational Education Proficiency Leave	69
43	Military League for Active Service	69
44	Leave Rights	70
45	Tuition Reimbursement	70
46	Program Development	72
47	Change of Pay Status	72
48	Voluntary Reduction	73
49	Job Shares	73
SECTION F:	PRIVILEGES & FACILITIES
1	Association President/Vice President Salary	74
2	Use of Facilities	75
3	Board Meeting Information	76
4	Professional Leave for Association Business	76
5	Payroll Deduction	76
6	Visiting Schools	77
7	Building Meetings	77
8	District Information	77
9	Employee Files	78
10	Employees’ Facilities	78
11	Salary Letter	79
12	Leave Accounting	79
13	Children of Employee	80
SECTION G:	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1	Definitions	80
2	Purpose	80
3	Procedure	81
4	Informal Conference	82
5	Level One	83
6	Level Two	83
7	Level Three	83
8	Level Four	84
4
Page
SECTION H:	ADVISORY COUNCIL
1	Teachers’ Advisory Council	85
SECTION I:	PROFESSIONAL RELATIONSHIPS
1	Faculty Affairs Committee	86
2	Building and Remodeling Plan	86
3	School Visitation	87
4	Other Matters	87
SECTION J:	FUTURE CONFERENCE AND TERM
1	Term of Agreement	87
2	Termination of Agreement	88
BVSD 110/110 Plan	90
MEMORANDUMS OF AGREEMENT	91-96
5
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE BOARD OF EDUCATION AND THE EMPL0YEES
Represented by the
BOULDER VALLEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
of the
BOULDER VALLEY SCHOOL DISTRICT RE-2J
PREAMBLE
The Boulder Valley Board of Education, the Boulder Valley Education Association, and the employees of the Boulder Valley School District recognize and declare that it is their mutual aim to provide a quality education to all pupils of the District. Accordingly, the parties recognize and agree that the employees, the Board, and the Administration have the responsibility to:
Respect each pupil’s dignity and worth,
Respect each pupil’s right to learn,
Uphold the standards of the profession, Promote quality teaching.
SECTION A: GENERAL PROVISIONS
A-1 ADHERENCE TO AGREEMENT: Both parties agree that during the term of this Agreement, adherence to the provisions contained herein will be an obligation and duty of each. There will be no strikes or other individual or concerted action designed to deprive the youth in the schools of services of Unit B employees. Any employee who engages in such actions during the term of this Agreement shall be subject to severe disciplinary action. Such disciplinary action shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure contained in this Agreement, except where applicable the state statute will apply. The Board of Education further agrees that it will not, during the term of the Agreement, officially adopt or implement any condition of employment contrary to the provisions of this Agreement.
A-2 SCHOOL BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES: Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, the determination and administration of school policy, the determination of school curriculum, the operation and management of the schools, and the direction of employee are vested exclusively in the Board of Education.
6
*A-3 EFFECT OF AGREEMENT: The parties mutually agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement represent the full and complete understanding and commitment as of July 1, 2004, between the parties hereto which may be altered, changed, added to, deleted from, or modified only through the voluntary, mutual consent of the parties in an amendment hereto.
A-3.1 Should any part of this Agreement be declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction it shall be automatically deleted from this Agreement to the extent that it violates the law, but the remaining portion shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of the Agreement to the extent it is not affected by the deleted portion.
A-4 SAVINGS CLAUSE: In the adoption of this Agreement, the parties agree that nothing contained herein is intended to be construed to delegate or limit the powers, duties, discretions, and responsibilities of the Board of Education as prescribed by the Constitution and Laws of the State of Colorado. If any provision of this Agreement, or any application of the Agreement shall be found contrary to law, such provision or application shall have effect only to the extent permitted by law.
Nothing contained herein shall be construed to deny or restrict any rights an employee may have under the laws and Constitution of the State of Colorado and the United States.
A-5 DEFINITIONS
“Employee” shall mean for the purpose of this Agreement a person who is a member of Unit B. Unit B shall consist of licensed and/or credentialed teachers, media specialists, audiologists, occupational therapists, physical therapists, counselors, psychologists, speech and language specialists, and social workers who are employed in such capacity on at least a half-time contract.
A-5.1 “Probationary employee” means an employee who has not completed three full years of continuous employment and who has not been reemployed for the fourth year as provided under the provisions of the Teacher Employment, Compensation and Dismissal Act.
A-5.2 “Teacher” means any person who holds a teacher’s license and is employed under the provisions of the Teacher Employment, Compensation and Dismissal Act.
A-5.3 “Part-time Teacher” means a teacher who is employed on less than a half-time contract.
*Identifies new or revised language
7
A-5.4 SENIORITY: Seniority shall be established subject to the following conditions:
(a)	An employee’s seniority date shall be defined as the first day an employee worked under his/her most recent contract.
(b)	An employee maintains his/her seniority rights while on an approved leave of absence.
(c)	Once a probationary employee receives a regular contract, that employee’s seniority shall originate from the date the employee first reported for work, including the time on a limited term or temporary contract, provided service has not been interrupted for more than thirty (30) work days and the employee has been employed for at least four (4) clock hours per day.
In the event two or more employees have the same seniority date, the date their most recent contract was signed shall govern. Contracts not dated by the employee shall originate from the date the employee first reported for work. If two or more employees still have the same seniority date, seniority will be established by lot.
A seniority list shall be completed by December 31 of the school year. A copy of such list shall be provided each building in the District and the Association. Annual updating of such list shall be the responsibility of the Human Resources Division.
A-5.5 For the purposes of this Agreement, those employees assigned to the middle schools are considered to be assigned to secondary schools.
A-6 RECOGNITION: Members of Unit B have the right to elect an organization to represent them in negotiations with the Board of Education on matters pertaining to salaries, hours, terms and conditions of employment, processing of alleged grievances, and on matters which both parties agree are proper subjects for negotiations.
A-6.1 The Board of Education hereby reaffirms recognition of the Boulder Valley Education Association as the exclusive representative of the members of Unit B for the effective dates of this Agreement and for such additional periods of time as its recognition may be extended under the policies and procedures of the Board of Education. All rights and privileges granted the Association under the terms and provisions of this Agreement are for the exclusive use of the Association.
8
A-7 ELECTION PROCEDURES: The election procedures of the Board of Education for the purpose of determining the appropriate representative of Unit B and other units is stated in Board policy HG.
SECTION B:	NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURE
B-1 SCOPE: The Board of Education representatives will meet with Unit B representatives to negotiate and reach agreements on matters pertaining to salaries, hours, terms and conditions of employment, procedures for the processing of alleged grievances, and on other matters which both parties agree are proper subjects for negotiations.
B-2 REPRESENTATION AND LOGISTICS OF NEGOTIATIONS: At the time of request for negotiations the initiating party shall identify not more than eight (8) persons who shall negotiate pursuant to the provisions of the Agreement. When responding to such request the recipient shall also identify not more than eight (8) representatives. Either party may, if it so desires, use the services of outside consultants and may call upon proper representatives to participate in negotiations. When such meetings are held during school time, a maximum of five (5) Association negotiators shall receive pay from the District for such time lost. Other Association negotiators’ time will be charged against BVEA days.
B-2.1 Both parties shall negotiate in good faith and in timely fashion.
B-3 INITIATION: A written request for negotiations shall be submitted by the party(ies) desiring negotiations no later than the 1st day of February.
B-3.1 Within ten (10) working days following the receipt of request for negotiations, the recipients shall make written acknowledgment of the request.
B-4 PROCEDURES: The parties will meet to present proposals for negotiations no later than February 10th.
B-5 MEETINGS: Formal negotiations meetings between the parties shall be conducted in closed sessions. The first session to discuss language issues only shall be held no later than February 18th and end by February 28th. During any session, either party may caucus in a closed meeting. Mediation and fact finding shall be conducted in closed sessions. The parties will meet to discuss financial issues beginning April 1st and ending April 15th.
B-5.1 During negotiations the issue for change of either party may be modified or added to. Those sections of the Agreement which had no proposal for change by either party may also be deleted or modified.
9
B-5.2 During negotiations unilateral communications from the Board or administrators to Unit B members or from Unit B members to the Board or administration shall be limited to matters concerning normal conduct of District affairs. This does not preclude bilateral communication between Board members, District administrators and Association leadership on matters under negotiation.
B-5.3 The above stated procedures do not prohibit additional negotiations when the two parties mutually agree.
B-5.4 Tentative agreements reached during negotiations, including mediation or fact-finding, shall be reduced to writing, dated and initialed by both parties. Agreement on any matter in negotiations is reached only when the parties have tentative agreement on all matters in negotiations, subject to ratification by both parties.
B-5.5 Association requests for records, lists, or other data should be addressed to the Executive Director of Human Resources with a copy to the Superintendent. Association requests will be limited to the President of BVEA, the UniServ Director, and the Chairperson of the BVEA Negotiating Committee. The Executive Director of Human Resources shall respond to the request within five (5) school days in writing, either supplying the requested information or indicating how the information may be obtained and suggesting a time and procedure.
B-6.1 PROCEDURE FOR IMPASSE: In the event that tentative agreement cannot be reached on all items under negotiation, by the negotiation teams, or negotiations have not been concluded by April 15th, unless extended by mutual consent, an impasse shall exist, and the following procedure shall be followed:
B-6.1.1 Mediation: The issues in dispute shall be submitted to a mediator for the purpose of inducing the Board and the Association to make a voluntary agreement.
B-6.1.2 Unless both sides agree otherwise, the Board and the Association shall, within (5) five days of the declaration of impasse, submit a written request for a mediator to the American Arbitration Association.
B-6.1.3 The request to the American Arbitration Association shall ask that a list of five qualified mediators be submitted to the Board and the Association.
10
B-6.1.4 The mediator shall be selected by the Board and the Association five (5) business days after receipt of the names of the mediators. The procedure shall be (unless mutually agreed otherwise) for each party to alternately strike names from the list until only one (1) name remains. This person shall then be asked to mediate the dispute. The party striking first shall be determined by lot. If the mediator declines to accept, the last two names stricken from the list shall be sent to the American Arbitration Association with the request to select the mediator from between the two.
B-6.1.5 The form, dates and times of meetings shall be arranged by the mediator.
B-6.1.6 The mediator shall meet with representative of the Board and the Association either separately or together.
B-6.1.7 If mediation fails in whole or in part, the mediator shall report the issues that remain in dispute to the Board and the Association.
B-6.1.8 The cost for services of the mediator or the A.A.A., including per diem expenses, if any, and necessary and actual travel expenses, shall be shared equally by the Board and the Association.
B-6.2 Fact-Finding: If the mediation procedure described above has failed to bring about agreement on all issues, either party acting through representative may request that the issues which remain in dispute be submitted to an advisory fact-finder. Unless the parties agree otherwise, the method of selection of the fact-finder shall be the same as that for the selection of a mediator as described in Section B-6.1.1 through B-6.1.4.
B-6.2.1 The fact-finder will have authority to hold meetings and confer with any parties deemed advisable in seeking to uncover pertinent facts, but he/she will not have authority to incur any costs other than his/her own fee without prior agreement of the Board and the Association.
B-6.2.2 The fact-finder shall provide a written report to the two parties within thirty (30) calendar days after the hearings have commenced.
11
B-6.2.3 Representatives of the Association and the Board shall meet within five (5) days after receiving the recommendations of the fact-finder to review and clarify the recommendations. The parties may agree to amend the recommendations at this meeting.
B-6.2.4 The recommendations of the fact-finder and any tentative agreements reached prior to fact-finding shall be submitted to the Association and the Board for action, unless the parties have previously agreed to amend the recommendations in the meeting described in B-6.2.3 above. In such cases the amended report will be submitted along with the tentative agreements for the ratification vote.
B-6.2.5 All costs incurred in the above process are to be shared equally by the Board and the Association
B-6.2.6 Nothing herein shall preclude the parties from agreeing to combine the mediation and fact-finding processes under one neutral.
B-7 ADOPTION AND RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENT: Tentative agreements reached as a result of the negotiations (including mediation and fact-finding) shall be reduced to writing and presented to the Association membership for ratification. The Association shall have fifteen (15) working days, exclusive of June 5th through September 5th, from the date that the tentative agreement has been presented in which to file a written statement accepting or rejecting the Agreement. Absence of written statement within this allowed time shall constitute ratification. Following such ratification, this Agreement shall be presented to the Board for its ratification.
B-7.1 The Board of Education shall, after public hearing, as required by law, submit to the appropriate tax levying body a request for such funds as shall be sufficient to fund the proposed operating budget. Final approval of this Agreement is contingent upon the adoption of a budget by the Boulder Valley Public Schools in compliance with the School District Budget Law and the appropriations therein of sufficient funds to meet the financial obligations contained in this Agreement. However, approval of this Agreement by the Board indicates that they intend to appropriate adequate funds to implement all provisions of the Agreement. It is expressly understood, however, that submission of the budget to referendum is the sole prerogative of the Board. Following the adoption of such budget and after the negotiated agreements are adopted by the Board, said agreements shall be entered as an addendum to the policies of the District.
12
B-8 INTERIM NEGOTIATIONS: It is recognized by the Board of Education and the Association that all situations and developments could not be anticipated at the time this Agreement was negotiated. Change(s) in the Agreement during its effective dates may be negotiated when the parties mutually agree that proposed change(s) are necessary. If as a result of such negotiations, agreement is reached on proposed change(s), such change(s) will be presented to the Association’s Board of Directors and the Board of Education for ratification. If both parties ratify the proposed change(s), such change(s) will be signed by the Board and Association presidents and will become amendment(s) to the existing Agreement. If the issue(s) under consideration in interim negotiations cannot be resolved, the issue(s) may become topics for the next negotiations.
SECTION C:	DUTIES OF THE EMPLOYEE
C-1 PROFESSIONAL DUTIES: State Statutes, found in Colorado Education Law, define certain requirements and responsibilities for both employees and Boards of Education.
C-1.1 The employee’s individual contract concerns matters needing understanding between the Board and an individual before entering into the mutual commitment of employment.
C-1.2 The District Handbook of Bylaws, Policies and Procedures define most operational matters for Unit B employees. Duties of the employee include pupil registration, attendance-keeping and record keeping, pupil discipline, reporting to parents, supervision of pupils, and the request for, care of, and accounting for instructional materials and equipment.
C-1.3 If there is an inconsistency between an individual contract and this Agreement on a matter concerning hours, terms of conditions of employment, this Agreement shall govern.
C-1.4 This Agreement defines terms and conditions of employment that apply to all members of Unit B.
C-1.5 No conflict between the individual contract, administrative procedures, Board policies and the Agreement is intended. In cases where conflict may arise, such will be rectified.
C-2 BOARD POLICIES: The policies of the Board of Education are recognized as being of vital concern to employees affected by them. Consequently, for actions concerning policies not covered in this Agreement, which affect
13
employees in Unit B, the administration shall inform the Association at a reasonable time prior to the initiation of such change, in order to provide for consultation with organization members.
*C-3 CONTRACT YEAR: The contract year for members of Unit B covered by the Employee Salary Schedule shall consist of 187 scheduled days of which 180 days are scheduled teaching days. For the 2004-06, four and one-half (4 %) days are designated as teacher preparation days and shall be scheduled as follows: one and one-half (1 %) days before students start school, one (1) day at mid-year at the end of the first semester or second trimester, and one (1) day at the end of the school year, and two (2) additional half days to be scheduled by the building on already established Professional Development days in the Board of Education adopted calendar. Two and one-half (2 %) days shall be designated by the district for activities such as in-service training and orientation. The other one (1) day will be designated by the school principal in concert with building teachers.
C-3.1 As determined by the District, new employees may be required to work up to three (3) additional days prior to the start of the contract year. Such employees will be paid their per diem rate.
C-4 SCHOOL CALENDAR: A tentative school calendar shall be developed by administrators and Association members for the academic year and shall be presented to the Board no later than January 10. At the meeting in February, the Board shall formally adopt this calendar or set a specific date for adoption of this or any revised calendar. The Board shall provide the BVEA with a copy of any revised calendar at least one month prior to adoption and the Association will have the opportunity at the next meeting to offer opinions, preferences and objections.
C-5 TEACHING HOURS AND TEACHING LOAD: Employees shall be on duty in their respective buildings 37 1/2 hours per week as arranged by the principal in cooperation with the faculty. The 37 1/2 hours per week shall be inclusive of (a) duty-free planning time, (b) necessary travel time attributed directly to teaching schedule and (c) at least a 30 minute guaranteed daily, duty-free, lunch period.
C-5.1 A minimum of 4 1/2 hours of duty-free planning time will be provided per week. Every reasonable effort will be made to provide planning periods of meaningful length of 30 minutes.
C-5.2 For those school activities which occur outside the regular school day, and which require the presence of a employee(s), an equitable master schedule shall be established by the principal in cooperation with the faculty and posted as early in the school year as possible.
*Identifies new or revised language
14
C-5.3 Extra duty and other special assignments for which the employee receives extra remuneration shall be in addition to the 37 1/2 hour week.
C-5.4 Employees may leave the building during their lunch period but must advise the office of their intention to be absent.
C-5.5 In senior high schools, an employee will be assigned no more than the equivalent of five instructional periods. In the middle schools an employee will be assigned no more than six periods of instruction per day inclusive of study halls. An employee will be considered full-time if assigned to five teaching periods between a middle level school and a senior high school. In all secondary schools, additional duty time needed during the school day to carry out Board approved programs and to maintain safety, order and welfare of the students, or for special programs developed by the faculty, will be equitably shared by the faculty members of the respective building as these needs arise.
C-5.6 Except in unique circumstances, regular classroom employees will not be required to remain with their classes when the classes are under the supervision of a music, art or physical education specialist.
C-5.7 An employee will not be required to serve on more than one uncompensated committee. For this purpose, a committee is defined as a group that meets regularly outside the school day once per month or more during any one school year.
C-5.8 Counselors will have a caseload not greater than 350 students at the middle school level and 450 students at the high school level.
C-6 ELEMENTARY CLASS SIZE: K-5 Grade Class Size. It is the goal of the School District to limit the size of kindergarten and first grade classes to a maximum of 26, of grades 2 and 3 to 29, and of grades 4 and 5 to 31 pupils. When it is necessary to combine the aforementioned grades, the class size goal will be reduced by two with the lowest grade level used as the guideline. The District will make every reasonable effort to meet these goals by adjusting classes within the building, the principal shall meet with the affected employee, and every reasonable effort shall be made to grant assistance to such teacher through reallocations of building resources (e.g. paraeducator time, additional materials, clerical assistance, and/or release duty time). Should such resources for assistance not be available at the building level, the appropriate District administrator shall meet with the affected employee and the building principal to determine what assistance, if any, will be provided.
15
*C-6.1 Students who receive special education services will have an IEP. The IEP is collaboratively developed by the IEP Team, who will determine the appropriate programming. The IEP Team will include general educators, parents, and special education personnel. The regular classroom employee will have access to IEP information and will determine, in collaboration with special education staff what additional assistance, if any, is required in terms of the child’s successful inclusion. Assistance for special education students in the general classroom may include consultative services, instruction support, and possibly team teaching from special education personnel. The special education case managers will be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the IEP and monitoring student progress on the IEP. Concerns regarding the student’s IEP will be addressed through the IEP review process.
*C-6.2 When children from the regular classroom are taught by a special education teacher outside the general classroom, the classroom teacher and special education teacher will collaborate and parents will be appraised of and give prior approval to this service.
C-6.3 When non-English speaking children are placed in regular classrooms, the employee may request, through the principal, assistance from available District resources.
C-6.4 Upon request, the appropriate District administrators will meet with the employees involved and the principal to assist in resolving any difficulties or problems that arise.
C-7 SECONDARY STUDENT LOAD: In all secondary teaching assignments, except physical education and music, every reasonable effort shall be made so that the total load shall not exceed a maximum of 775 students per week exclusive of study hall. This does not preclude an employee from requesting an additional load beyond the maximum stated above.
C-7.1 Integration of students with disabilities in the secondary classes shall be accomplished as per the provisions contained in C-6.2, 3, 4, and 5.
C-8 GRADE REPORTING DEADLINES:
C-8.1 GRADING PERIODS DURING SCHOOL YEAR: There shall be a minimum of three teaching days between the end of the grading period (quarter or trimester) and the deadline for submitting grade reports at the building level.
*Identifies new or revised language
16
C-8.2 END OF THE YEAR GRADING PERIOD: In the event that one full day or its equivalent of released time is not made available to employees during the final three days of the school year, grade reports will be submitted no later than three business days (Monday through Friday, not including official holidays) after the end of the quarter or trimester.
C-9 PARAEDUCATORS: The Board reaffirms the important role paraeducators play in assisting the faculty in the educational program of the District. It further agrees to provide paraeducators in both the elementary and secondary schools as determined by sound educational and staffing requirements. Priority for paraeducator time will be given: (1) to relieve class overloads, (2) to staffing of resource centers, and (3) to meet unique and/or unusual needs of a particular school as those needs arise. Allocation of paraeducator hours at the building level shall be made through the shared decision making process.
C-10 DEPARTMENT CHAIRPERSONS AND TEAM LEADERS: Funds will be allocated to secondary buildings to provide released time and/or compensation for staff members who are asked to assume substantive nonclassroom duties as determined through the shared decision making process.
If department chairpersons and/or team leaders are appointed with the traditional role definitions and expectations, the rates in Section E-16 shall apply. For other leadership responsibilities, compensation shall be determined through shared decision making.
C-11 STAFF MEETINGS: Regular building staff meetings shall be scheduled as needed on Thursdays. At the elementary level, regular building staff meetings, including staff development, team meetings, and administration meetings are not to exceed 60 minutes in duration per week.
Announcements, including major topics, shall be made at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Special meetings may be called by the principal to deal with emergencies but such meetings shall be kept to a minimum and shall deal with only those emergency items for which the meeting was called. Every effort shall be made to keep all meetings as short as possible. Employees shall attend all staff meetings unless excused by the principal.
C-12 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS: Pre-School Sessions: Each employee is to attend the pre-school session for all employees. Each employee is to attend the appropriate grade or departmental meetings and building faculty meetings.
C-12.1	First Aid: First aid policies shall be as stipulated by the Board of
Education policy adopted August 23, 1976.
C-13 CLASSROOM VACANCIES: When vacancies in the classroom occur, and
17
where it is not practical to secure a substitute, the principal will make every effort to ask appropriate volunteers to cover the vacancy. If no volunteer surfaces in a timely fashion, the principal may assign an employee to cover the vacancy. If such an assignment is made by the principal, the employee will be entitled to compensation at the rate agreed upon. (See Section E-4).
C-13.1 The above does not preclude voluntary arrangements between employees as approved by the building principal. There shall be no extra pay for these voluntary arrangements.
C-13.2 Absences at the Request of the Administration. Employee absences, which are created by the school administration, will be covered by substitutes. When it is not possible to provide a substitute, the absence will be covered as indicated in “classroom vacancies” above.
C-14 STUDENT DISCIPLINE: When administering pupil discipline, employees are required to exercise appropriate judgment and control. The employee may restrain the pupil until other action may be taken or the employee may refer a pupil to the school office. The pupil will not be returned to class during the same class period at the secondary level and within approximately thirty (30) minutes of the referral at the elementary level. This requirement may be deemed inapplicable for subsequent referrals of the same student, or another student for the same offense, only after a conference has been held between the appropriate superior and the employee regarding future expectations for disciplinary action in these situations. The employee will be notified of any disciplinary action, or lack thereof, taken with regard to the pupil referred and the reason(s) for such.
C-14.1 In the event the employee has concern over the decision of the principal or designee, he/she may request a meeting with a representative of the Association and the principal or designee. If the issue remains unresolved, the employee may request a meeting with a representative of the Association and the appropriate District administrator or designee.
C-15 USE OF PHYSICAL FORCE: An employee may use reasonable and appropriate physical force upon a minor when and to the extent it is necessary and appropriate to maintain discipline or promote the welfare of the minor.
C-15.1 When it is necessary for the employee to be absent from normal duties to participate in parent conferences or meetings with other appropriate agencies, or to consult with an attorney regarding defense of assault charges when it cannot be done outside the teaching day, as a result of or arising out of the application of physical force as set forth in C-15, and provided that such absence
18
is necessitated as a result of performing his/her duties, and not caused by his/her own negligence, the employee shall not suffer a loss of pay for the period of such absence, on account of such absence.
C-15.2 The Board may reimburse an employee for the cost in excess of insurance benefits received for medical, surgical, or hospital services incurred as a direct result of injury sustained in the course of his/her employment if recommended by the Superintendent, but may not reimburse for consequential damages or for aggravation of pre-existing injuries and shall not exceed the amount of his/her current salary.
C-15.3 Employees shall make every attempt to report as soon as possible, but no later than the following morning, cases concerning C-15 to their principal, or in his/her absence, some other District administrator.
C-16 LEGAL COUNSEL: The Board shall provide legal counsel of its selection, if recommended by the Superintendent, to employees in actions arising out of disciplinary action involving a pupil of the School District while in the proper discharge of duties within the scope of his/her employment.
C-16.1 Employees shall make every attempt to report as soon as possible, but no later than the following morning, cases of assault suffered by them in connection with their employment to their principal or in his/her absence some other District administrator.
C-17 TRANSPORTATION OF STUDENTS: Employees shall not be required to transport pupils to activities which take place away from the school building.
C-18 ASSIGNMENT OF SPECIALISTS
C-18.1 Special Education
If a Special Education employee believes that the size and/or composition of his/her case load is not consistent with sound and safe educational practices, he/she will meet with the building principal to review the situation. Every reasonable effort will be made to come to a mutual agreement to satisfy the situation. If no agreement is reached to relieve the situation within five (5) days, the issue will be taken to the Deputy Superintendent who will inform the employee of his/her decision in writing within ten (10) work days.
C-18.2 Media Specialists
19
If a Media Specialist believes that the staffing in his/her building media center is not adequate to provide sufficient educational services, he/she will meet with the building principal to review the situation. Every reasonable effort will be made to come to a mutual agreement to satisfy the situation. If no agreement is reached to relieve the situation within five (5) days, the issue will be taken to the Deputy Superintendent who will inform the employee of his/her decision in writing within ten (10) work days.
C-18.3 Elementary Specialist Assignments
Elementary Art, Music, and Physical Education specialists will be staffed in accordance with the attached Memorandum of Understanding.
C-19 The District agrees to provide the Association a copy of the Elementary and Secondary staffing appeals document in the fall and as it is updated throughout the school year 2003-2004. Any spring updates will be provided upon request. These documents will include a separate column identifying denials and the reason for such denial.
*	C-20 ASSESSMENT
In the spring of each year at each elementary school, the building principal will collaborate with all teachers to design an assessment plan that condenses the assessment timeframe working within a 2 to 5 day per grade level window. The plan,as determined by each school staff, will utilize building resource staff to support the classroom teacher in assessing all K-3 students and those identified students in grades 4 and 5.
*	C-21 SPECIAL EDUCATION
Only employees in a leadership role (ie. ESL Coordinators, TOSAs, Deans, Department Chairs, and Counselors) will be required to ask parents to waive out of ESL.
*	C-22 OPENING, CLOSING AND REORGANIZING SCHOOLS
In the event that the Board of Education decides to open, close or reorganize any school within the District, Human Resources will collaborate with Unit B leadership to address the interests of affected teachers. This collaboration will take place in as timely a manner as possible.
*Identifies new or revised language
20
*C-23 ASSESSMENT
The district will hold assessment information electronically to be printed out at the building level as available. Rosters for schools, classes and individual students will be available at each school as availability permits.
*	C-24 LITERACY
1.	Employees will only be required to complete district provided data recording sheets with literacy assessment results.
2.	By August 15, 2004, the district will create and maintain a K-12 literacy profile reference folder, which will replace the current folders. The literacy profile will be a reference for teachers as they work on ILPs, QRIs, ESL second language profiles, most recent writing sample and continua as applicable. The literacy profiles will be streamlined and purged of outdated materials each year to reflect current data. Teachers will not be expected to record any data on the literacy profiles.
3.	Under no circumstances can the IEP’s be placed in the cumulative file when students are both an IEP and an ILP, the IEP will serve as the ILP when the literacy goals are compatible. The IEP and the IEP At-A-Glance must be housed in the Special Education student work file. Additionally, either the IEP, IEP goals or IEP At-A-Glance may also be kept in the classroom literacy profile. When a student is on both an IEP and an ILP, the IEP Team including the classroom teacher/literacy support and the SPED teacher will write the goals in collaboration. Subsequently, these teachers will work with parents to create the ILP parent component at the annual review and/or triennial.
*	C-25 FIRST STEPS
First Steps is a framework tool used to guide instruction to support increased student achievement. Teachers are expected to report the phase of reading and writing development from the First Steps on the assessment date sheets. Use of continua beyond reporting the phase of development for students in reading and writing will be decided collaboratively by each building. For those schools where training has not been given, principals will be granted a school-wide waiver for this reporting requirement until such time as the training and implementation is complete.
*	C-26 TECHNOLOGY
The district will coordinate a mixed ability and mixed level voluntary users group of teachers and district administrator to continue the discussion about the effective use of technology. This group will foster communication and provide two-way dialogue as the school district works to increase efficiency in technology use and examine streamlining paperwork into the future.
*	Identifies new or revised language
21
*C-27 SPECIAL EDUCATION
Special Education staff will not be required to head up 504 teams or manage 504 accommodations for non-special education students.
*C-28	PROPERTY PROTECTION/EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITY FOR FUNDS
1.	The district will make a reasonable effort to provide a safe and convenient place for employees to deposit personal property in each school.
2.	A total of $5,000 per semester will be proportionally available for these provisions. Distribution of claims will take place within 30 calendar days from the end o f each semester.
a.	In the event a teacher, while acting with the scope of his/her employment, has his/her clothing or other personal property damaged or destroyed, as a result of an attack, assault, menace, vandalism, or pupil supervision problem the District will reimburse the teacher the cost of repair or reasonable replacement up to $500 or the insurance deductible, whichever is less, of such property.
b.	Given prudent and responsible handling the District will reimburse/replace for wallets/purses, outer-wear and briefcases which are stolen while on school grounds up to $500 or the insurance deductible, whichever is less.
c.	Given prudent and responsible handling the District will reimburse/replace for stolen or damaged personal property used for instructional purposes at school with prior documentation and approval up to $500 or the insurance deductible, whichever is less.
d.	The district will pay up to $500 or the insurance deductible, whichever is less, for automobile damage because of theft or vandalism provided the automobile was on school grounds and the employee was acting within the scope of his/her employment.
e.	In order for the District to reimburse the teacher for losses as outlined in the above sections, the teacher must a) submit a written request within ten (10) days of the incident; b) the District deems the request of the teacher to be meritorious.
f.	To be reimbursed for property loss, the teacher must complete the REIMBURSEMENT REQUEST FORM and attach copies of the teacher’s insurance declaration sheet, police report in cases of theft and/or serious vandalism and/or principal’s report when appropriate. The completed form and attachments shall be submitted to the district office within ten (10) days of the incident.
3.	Whenever an employee is assigned by the District the responsibility of handling funds and follows the established District/school procedures the Board shall provide theft of money coverage for that individual.
*Identifies new or revised language
22
SECTION D: EMPLOYMENT
D-1 NON-DISCRIMINATION: The School Board and the Association reaffirm that there shall be no discrimination against any employee because of race, age, marital status, creed, color, sex, national origin, sexual orientation and disability, or participation in any professional educational organization.
D-2 HEALTH EXAMINATION: A special health examination may be required whenever a physical or mental condition interferes, or appears likely to interfere, with the health and safety of other employees or pupils or the education of pupils. An employee may also be required to have a written report from a qualified physician showing that he/she is physically capable of doing the work required of his/her position. The costs of these special health exams shall be paid by the District.
EMPLOYMENT STATUS
D-3 Each year of the first three years of employment is considered a probationary year in the Boulder Valley Schools. During such three years, the probationary employee shall be given constructive leadership and guidance by the administrative and supervisory staff.
D-3.1 No later than May 15th, the principal shall advise the probationary employee on a regular contract of his/her intent to recommend to the Board of Education renewal or nonrenewal of the probationary employee’s contract.
D-3.2 A probationary employee employed by the School District on a regular contract shall\be deemed to be re-employed for the succeeding academic year at the salary which he/she would be entitled to receive under the appropriate salary schedule unless the Board shall cause written notice to the contrary to be given to said employee on or before June 1, of the academic year during which said probationary employee is employed.
D-4 The Board of Education appropriate policy concerning employment, dismissal, termination, and non-renewals of employees shall be in accordance with state law.
EVALUATION
D-5 PURPOSES: Consistent with the state law the purposes of the evaluation shall be to serve as a basis for the improvement of instruction, enhance the implementation of programs of curriculum, serve as the measurement of satisfactory performance for individual licensed personnel and serve as documentation for an unsatisfactory performance dismissal, serve as a measurement of professional growth and development of licensed personnel,
23
and measure the level of performance of all licensed personnel.
D-5.1 OFF CYCLE OBSERVATIONS: During the years when an employee is not scheduled for formal evaluation, non-probationary teachers shall be observed at least once each year for no less than 15 minutes in length. A record of the date and time of such observation will be kept by the evaluator. The employee shall receive a copy for their records.
D-6 EVALUATION SEQUENCE
D-6.1 Probationary Employees
Probationary employees will be evaluated each of the first three years of employment. After the first three years, they will be evaluated on a three year cycle.
D-6.2 Employees
All non-probationary employees will be evaluated on a three year cycle. Changes in assignment do not require out of cycle evaluations.
D-6.3 Part-time (less than 4 hours)
Part-time employees will be evaluated each of the first three years of employment. If they remain in the same assignment after the first three years, they will be evaluated on a three year cycle.
D-6.4 Split Assignments
Employees who have split assignments will be evaluated on the same sequence as outlined for their employee status (probationary, employees, part-time). The principal of the building where the employee is assigned the largest percentage of time will be responsible for the evaluation. In situations where percentages are equal or other arrangements need to be made, the principals involved will work with HRD to determine the designated evaluator. The designated evaluator will collaborate with the other principals with whom the employee works when facilitating the evaluation.
D-7 PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
D-7.1 Evaluator
Employee evaluations shall be the responsibility of the principal, program director or an assistant principal.
24
D-7.2 General Meeting
By September 15th, the evaluator will meet with the employee, individually or in a general meeting, to authorize the evaluation process, timelines, and review the “Evaluation Standards and Criteria.”
D-7.3 Observations
The employee shall be observed on not less than two (2) separate occasions in the classroom during each of the first and second nine-week grading periods following the date of employment. In subsequent years the employee shall be observed on not less than two (2) separate occasions in the classroom during each of the first and second nine-week grading periods each year. One (1) of the two (2) required observations during each grading period must be at least thirty (30) minutes duration and with the prior knowledge of the employee.
Timely communication should take place between the evaluator and the teacher as a part of the observation process.
D-7.4 Reports
D-7.4.1	The evaluator shall discuss progress with each
employee and provide a written progress report after the first full grading period following the day of employment.
D-7.4.2 The evaluator shall provide each employee a written evaluation report no later than March 1st
D-7.5 Conferences
The evaluator will confer with each employee after the first full grading period following the day of employment and after the second week nine-week grading period.
D-7.6 Remediation
D-7.6.1 If performance concerns exist, the written evaluation report shall so state and specify that the employee is placed on remediation.
D-7.6.2 As soon as possible after completion of the written evaluation report in D-7.4.2, the evaluator and the
25
employee will meet to develop a remediation plan. The remediation plan will include performance expectations, performance indicators, strategies for improvement, reasonable timelines, and resources as provided in section D-9.6.4. In addition, the evaluator will clarify the process for monitoring the remediation plan.
D-7.6.3 Observations
1.	The employee shall be observed not less than once every two (2) weeks. Such observations must be at least thirty (30) minutes in duration.
2.	Within two (2) working days after each observation the evaluator will provide the employee written feedback as a part of the observation process.
3.	The evaluator will conduct observations and collect data in accordance with sections D-9.6.1, D-9.6.2, D-9.6.3.
D-7.7 Appeal
A probationary employee whose performance has been determined to be such as to justify dismissal or non-renewal by the principal may request a review of the decision by the Superintendent or his/her designee. The decision of the Superintendent or his/her designee shall be final.
D-7.8 Subsequent Evaluations
By June 1st, the evaluator shall have the option to place the employee on the non-probationary Level I evaluation process for the following year. During years two and three of probationary status, the evaluator shall have the option of placing the employee on the probationary employee evaluation process or the non-probationary Level I evaluation process.
D-8 NON-PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES: LEVEL I
Level one is designed to encourage risk taking, reduce the stress often attached to the evaluation process and build a sense of collaboration between the employee and the evaluator. The process should be meaningful and relevant while allowing for a great deal of flexibility and streamlining. The employee in collaboration with the designated evaluator is responsible for orchestrating his/her own evaluation.
26
D-8.1 STEP 1: General Meeting
By October 1st, the evaluator will hold a general meeting with all employees who will be on the Level I cycle to outline the nature of the evaluation process, clarify roles and discuss how the parties involved will work with one another throughout the process.
D-8.2 STEP 2: Employee Pre-Planning
The employee being evaluated will draft an evaluation plan, which will include goals, outcomes, to validate reaching those goals, plans for the process to collect data and measure progress.
D-8.3 STEP 3: Individual Meeting
The evaluator and employee will meet to collaboratively review and finalize the proposed goals, overall plan and what the end product will look like.
D-8.3.1 Strategies for conducting the evaluation process and collecting data to document progress are flexible. The following options and/or a combination of several might be considered:
a.	structured approach using the seven performance standards
b.	classroom observations with pre and post conferences
c.	portfolio approach - possibly utilizing peer, parent and/or student input
d.	involvement of peers, parents and/or students in a team approach
e.	self-evaluation couples with one or more of the above
f.	peer appraisal with information and updates shared with the evaluator of record
g.	self designed process, which is mutually agreed upon by the
employee and evaluator
D-8.3.2 Length of the evaluation process is determined by
mutual agreement, but must be concluded by May 1st.
D-8.4 STEP 4: Evaluation Draft
Upon completion of the agreed upon process, a written draft of the
27
final evaluation is discussed and edited by the employee and evaluator. Such draft will include a growth and improvement plan as required by state statute.
D-8.5 STEP 5: Final Evaluation
The final copy of the evaluation is signed by both parties and copies distributed to the employee, the evaluator and the Human Resources Division.
D-8.6 The growth and improvement plan developed as part of the final written evaluation should serve as a foundation for continuing dialogue between the employee and the evaluator. During the three years before another written evaluation is required, both parties are encouraged to discuss the growth plan and progress toward goals.
D-8.7 At any point in the Level I process, the evaluator may place an employee on the Level II process consistent with section D-9.2.1.
D-9 NON-PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES: LEVEL II
D-9.1 Evaluator
Employee evaluations shall be the responsibility of the principal, program director or an assistant principal.
D-9.2 STEP 1: Initiation of Level II Process
D-9.2.1 The principal or assistant principal may place an employee on the Level II evaluation process by providing written notification to the employee stating the reasons. Such reasons will be acceptable provided they are not arbitrary and capricious.
D-9.2.2 The initiation of the Level II evaluation process may occur at any time during the school year.
D-9.2.3 At least one week prior to starting Step 2, evaluator shall meet with the employee to discuss and clarify the following:
a.	Overall process and timeline
b.	Copy of “Evaluation Standards and Criteria”
c.	Expectations regarding areas of performance concerns
d.	Primary evaluator
28
e.	Data sources
f.	Frequency of observations and observation conferences
g.	Copy of Level II evaluation process
The evaluator will provide the employee a written
summary of the understandings reached in the meeting.
D-9.2.4 The employee may request a meeting with the evaluator,
an Association representative, and the Executive Director of Human Resources or his/her designee for the purpose of reviewing the initiation of the Level II process.
D-9.3 STEP 2:
Weeks One - Twelve (1-12)
D-9.3.1
Observations
a.	The employee shall be observed not less than once every two (2) weeks. Such observations must be at least thirty (30) minutes in duration.
b.	Within two (2) working days after each observation the evaluator will provide the employee written feedback as a part of the observation process.
c.	The evaluator will conduct observations and collect data in accordance with sections D-9.6.1, D-9.6.2, D-9.6.3.
D-9.3.2 At the end of the twelve (12) week period the evaluator
shall discuss progress with the employee and provide an interim written progress report to the employee.
a.	If the employee’s performance improved satisfactorily, the report shall so state and the employee is placed on the Level I process.
b.	If performance concerns continue to exist, the interim written progress report shall so state and will include written improvement plan that addresses the performance concerns. The improvement plan will include performance expectations, performance indicators, strategies for improvement, reasonable timelines and resources as provided in section D-9.6.4.
D-9.3.3 The employee may request a meeting with the evaluator,
an Association representative, and the Executive Director of Human Resources or his/her designee for the purpose of reviewing the interim written progress report.
29
D-9.4 STEP 3: Weeks Thirteen - Twenty Four (13-24)
D-9.4.1 During this period the improvement plan will be implemented and monitored.
D-9.4.2 Observations
a.	The employee shall be observed not less than once every two (2) weeks. Such observations must be at least thirty (30) minutes in duration.
b.	Within two (2) working days after each observation the evaluator will provide the employee written feedback as a part of the observation process.
c.	The evaluator will conduct observations and collect data in accordance with sections D-9.6.1, D-9.6.2, D-9.6.3.
D-9.4.3 At the end of the twelve (12) week period the evaluator shall discuss progress with the employee and provide a written evaluation report to the employee.
a.	If the employee’s performance has improved satisfactorily, the report shall so state and the employee is placed on the Level I process.
b.	If performance concerns continue to exist, the written evaluation report shall so state and specify that the employee is placed on remediation.
D-9.5 STEP 4: Weeks Twenty Five - Thirty Three (25-33)
D-9.5.1 As soon as possible after completion of the written evaluation report in D-9.4.3, the evaluator and the employee will meet to develop a remediation plan. The remediation plan will include performance expectations, performance indicators, strategies for improvement, reasonable timelines, and resources as provided in section D-9.6.4. In addition, the evaluator will clarify the process for monitoring the remediation plan.
D-9.5.2 Observations
a.	The employee shall be observed not less than once every two (2) weeks. Such observations must be at least thirty (30) minutes in duration.
b.	Within two (2) working days after each observation the evaluator will provide the employee written feedback as a part of the observation process.
c.	The evaluator will conduct observations and collect
30
data in accordance with sections D-9.6.1, D-9.6.2, D-9.6.3.
D-9.5.3 At the end of the nine (9) week period the evaluator shall discuss the employee’s employment status and provide a written summary to the employee.
a.	If the employee’s performance has improved satisfactorily, the summary shall so state and the employee is placed on the Level I process.
b.	If performance concerns continue to exist and are not such as to justify dismissal, the employee will continue on the improvement plan as provided in section D-9.4, Step 3.
c.	If the evaluator considers the employee’s deficiencies to be such as to justify dismissal, the summary shall so state.
D-9.6 General Provisions
D-9.6.1 Observations and Data Collection
All observations will be conducted openly and with the knowledge of the employee being evaluated. These observations will be a combination of scheduled and unscheduled visits. An effort will be made to conduct the observations at different times during the work day.
D-9.6.2 Complaints
a.	Complaints about the employee’s performance that may be a part of the employee’s evaluation will be shared with the employee in writing within five (5) working days.
b.	Anonymous complaints will not become a part of an employee’s evaluation.
D-9.6.3 Extra Duty Assignments.
Any evaluation of extra duty assignments shall be separate and apart from the Level II evaluation process.
D-9.6.4 Resources
If either the evaluator or employee requests, assistance may also be provided by other employees and/or professional personnel. The evaluator may select two or
31
more persons, one of whom is mutually agreed upon by the employee involved, to assist the employee. Upon the selection, the parties involved will meet to discuss the nature of the assistance to be provided and the appropriate timelines. Unless mutually agreed upon by the parties involved, individuals who provide this assistance will not be expected to provide evaluation data. The District will provide reasonable release time necessary for such assistance subject to the approval of the Executive Director of Human Resources.
D-9.6.5 Signatures
a.	The written evaluation report shall be signed by the evaluator and the employee with each receiving a copy of the report. The signature on the report of any person shall not be construed to indicate agreement with the information contained in the report.
b.	The written evaluation report shall be reviewed and signed by a supervisor of the evaluator. A copy of the report shall be filed in the employee’s district personnel file.
D-9.6.6 Response to Written Evaluation Report
a.	The employee may grieve the written evaluation report as provided in section D-7.4.2 or D-9.4.3. With regard to the Level II process, the parties have agreed to use a problem solving approach through Step 3. A grievance covering D-9 may be filed and considered timely if filed within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of the written evaluation report by the employee in section D-9.4.3.
Upon the mutual agreement of the Association and the District, an alternative process to the grievance procedure (Section G) may be used in resolving issues.
b.	If the employee disagrees with the written evaluation report provided in section D-7.4.2 or D-9.4.3, he/she may put his/her objections in writing within five (5) working days after receiving the final written evaluation report and have them attached to the
32
evaluation report. If the evaluation report is being grieved, the five (5) working day time period shall not apply until the grievance has been resolved or withdrawn.
D-9.6.7 Written Replies
An employee will be informed that he/she may attach written replies to documents he/she receives from the evaluator.
PUBLIC COMPLAINTS
D-10 In the event there are complaints against an employee’s performance and/or teaching materials, the employee will be informed of such complaints, or charges, and will have the opportunity to respond before any action is taken.
D-10.1 When possible, conferences with employees will be prearranged.
During the conference, if the employee feels he/she needs representation, the employee may request that the conference be adjourned until representation can be secured.
D-11 No employee shall be disciplined, reprimanded, reduced in compensation, suspended, or adversely evaluated without just cause. In cases of transfer or termination state law will apply.
D-11.1 Should any employees be determined to not fall within the meaning of “teacher,” as that term is defined in the Teacher Employment, Compensation, and Dismissal Act, such employees shall, to the extent the District has such authority, be afforded the equivalent protections and benefits afforded to teachers under that Act in any transfer or dismissal action.
D-12 EMPLOYEE ASSIGNMENTS: Employees shall be notified in writing of any change in their tentative assignments for the ensuing school year, including the schools to which they will be assigned, and the grade and/or subject they will teach, and any special or unusual course that they will have as soon as practicable, and under normal circumstances no later than June 1. If circumstances prohibit identifying the assignment, the employee shall be notified verbally or in writing explaining the reasons by June 1.
D-12.1 In arranging schedules for employees who are assigned to more than one school, the amount of inter-school travel will be held to a minimum. Such employees shall be notified of any changes in their schedules as soon as practicable. Itinerant employees who may be required to use their own automobiles in the performance of their duties and who are assigned to more than one school per day shall
33
be reimbursed for inter-school travel at the current mileage allowance (See Section E). For employees assigned to more than one building, time needed for such things as travel, lunch, planning, start up and clean up, and other job requirements shall be allowed for in arranging schedules. Such traveling employees will attend staff meetings in the building utilizing the greater percentage of the employee’s time. If such meetings require travel from another building, reimbursement for such travel will be paid at the current mileage allowance.
D-12.2 In the case of employees employed prior to July 31, the original building assignment shall be made by the Executive Director of Human Resources as soon after initial appointment as practicable.
D-12.3	Traveling employees will be given consideration for a full-time
assignment in one school. Program needs may be considered in determining such assignment.
D-13 PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL GROWTH: Both the Association and the District agree that changes in assignments within or between schools can promote personal growth and organizational health.
To promote greater voluntary movement of Unit B members, the District and Association encourage school staffs to give consideration to in-district transfer requests when openings exist. Likewise, the Association, along with the District, encourages members to periodically review individual career aspirations with principals in the context of personal growth and organizational health.
D-14 TRANSFER: A “transfer” shall mean the movement of an employee from one building to another for 50% or more of his/her assignment.
D-14.1 The voluntary transfer of employees during their probationary period will be discouraged.
D-14.2 Final determination of assignments shall be made by the Superintendent of Schools through his/her designated representative.
*D-15 NOTIFICATION OF VACANCIES: A list of all vacancies by position and school, including those filled by temporary employees, shall be compiled by the Executive Director of Human Resources and posted at least bi-monthly in all schools from April 15th to June 1st. From June 1st until August 1st, a list of current vacancies shall be posted weekly in the Human Resources Division. Under normal circumstances, employee initiated transfers will not be permitted after August 1st of each year.
*Identifies new or revised language
34
D-15.1
When practicable, the posting(s) will reflect specific requirements, qualifications, duties and responsibilities.
D-15.2 During the summer months, vacancy notices will be available through a telephone recording system.
D-16 FILLING VACANCIES: In considering employees for transfer to a vacant position, the appropriate administrator will consider the following:
a.	Credentials held by applicants including academic preparation, experience, training and work record.
b.	Input from department or grade level employees who will work with the employee.
c.	Skills desired for the position.
When there is more than one applicant for the position in question and all of the above criteria are essentially equal, priority shall be given to the applicant with the most seniority in the District.
D-16.1 All qualified in-district applicants will be interviewed unless more than three (3) apply in which case at least three (3) will be interviewed.
D-17 VOLUNTARY TRANSFERS: Members of Unit B may make application to the Executive Director of Human Resources for transfer to another position when a vacancy is posted. The employee shall provide the current principal with a copy of the application. Such request should include the reason(s) for making it. When unique needs or unusual circumstances would seem to require it, a member of Unit B may apply directly to the Executive Director of Human Resources for special transfer considerations, even when specific openings are not available or posted.
D-17.1 Written requests for transfer shall be filed in the Human Resources Division by the date specified on the notification of vacancies posted in the schools and/or the Human Resources Division. Vacancies will be posted for a minimum of five (5) business days. The Human Resources Division will acknowledge receipt of all requests and will inform each applicant in writing of the disposition of the request as soon as it is practicable. If the employee wishes to know the status of his/her application, the information shall be provided upon request by the employee. The employee may also request an interview with the principal or Executive Director of Human Resources for an explanation of the reason(s) for not being transferred as requested.
D-17.2 The Human Resources Division will send a list of employees requesting transfers to posted vacancies to those building principals where such vacancies exist.
35
D-18 ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFERS: A member of Unit B may be transferred for reasons other than stated in section D-19 upon the recommendation of the Superintendent of the School District from one school position or grade level to another within the School District if such transfer does not result in the assignment of the employee to a position of employment for which he/she is not qualified by virtue of academic preparation and licensure.
D-18.1 An employee recommended for administrative transfer effective with the beginning of an academic year will be notified of such recommendation and the reasons therefore by April 15. Where unforeseen circumstances warrant transfer at another time, the employee will be so advised promptly after the administrator makes the recommendation for transfer.
D-18.2 When an employee is recommended for administrative transfer, the employee will be so notified and be informed of the reason(s) for such proposed action and the factual support for the reason(s).
The employee may meet with the administrator recommending the transfer to review the proposed action. The employee may have representation present at the meeting, if he/she desires. The reasons for the action, the factual support and the administrator’s recommendation will be stated in writing.
D-18.3 The employee may request that the Superintendent review the recommendation by giving written notice to the Superintendent within seven (7) days after receipt of the administrator’s recommendation.
Upon receipt of a request for review, the Superintendent and a representative of the Association will meet with the employee and the administrator involved to review the situation. The
Superintendent will consider the concerns of all parties and make a final decision regarding the transfer.
D-19 INVOLUNTARY TRANSFERS: When it becomes necessary to transfer employees between schools because of a reduction of staff in a subject area(s) or a grade level(s), the building principal shall decide in which subject area(s) or grade level(s) such transfer shall occur. The building principal will seek volunteers in writing from all Unit B employees in the school for transfer consideration. If the reduction is not accomplished by the transfer of a volunteer, the building principal will consider the following factors in determining the employee(s) to be transferred or retained:
a.	Credentials held by employees including academic preparation, experience, training, and work record and,
b.	Building curricular and co-curricular program needs and,
36
c.	Seniority and,
d.	Certification of employees by the Colorado Department of Education and/or endorsement by the North Central Association or equivalent.
D-19.1 If meeting building curricular and co-curricular program needs is the determining factor, the employee(s) retained must have clearly demonstrated interests or skills directly related to maintaining the integrity of the programs affected.
D-19.2 Each employee transferred under this provision will be placed in a position for which he/she is qualified provided there is a vacancy. If no vacancy exists, the provisions of D-20 shall govern.
D-19.3 Employees will be notified no later than May 15, of their selection for involuntary transfer. Where unforeseen circumstances warrant involuntary transfer during the academic year, employees will be so advised promptly.
D-20 REDUCTION IN FORCE: When it becomes necessary for the Board of Education to reduce the members of Unit B, the Board of Education shall notify the Association of the intended reductions and the reasons therefore. As soon as practical after such notification, representatives of the Board and the Association shall meet to discuss the proposed reduction in force.
Should any employees be determined to not fall within the meaning of “teacher,” as that term is defined in the Teacher Employment, Compensation, and Dismissal Act, such employees shall, to the extent the District has such authority, be afforded the equivalent protections and benefits afforded to teachers under that Act in any reduction in force action.
D-20.1 Announcement of the probable number of elementary and secondary employees to be affected by the contemplated reduction in force will be made no later than March 15, of the school year. Announcement of the classifications and probable numbers to be affected will be made no later than May 15, of the school year. Notification of specific employees affected by the reduction in force will contain the reason(s) for such reduction and will be made as soon as possible.
D-20.2 If the Board votes to reduce the number of employees, after consideration of Affirmative Action guidelines, the provisions of state law, and qualifications, reduction in force will occur in the following order:
a. normal attrition (retirements and resignations) b. volunteers to take a leave of absence
37
c.	termination of probationary employees with strong consideration given to the inverse order of seniority and program needs
d.	termination of employees as outlined in D-20.3
D-20.3 The following procedure will apply for the reduction of employees:
a.	employees with the least seniority in the classification affected will be the first to be removed
b.	an employee removed under (a) will displace the employee with the least seniority in a similar job classification within the District
c.	an employee who cannot displace another employee in a similar job classification because he/she does not have sufficient seniority will displace the employee with the least seniority within the District whose assignment he/she is qualified to perform, and
d.	an employee displaced by another employee under this procedure shall follow the same procedure in displacing another employee.
D-20.4 The following procedures will apply for employees who have been reduced:
D-20.4.1 At the request of the building, a nonrenewed probationary employee may be rehired by his/her former school without going through the interview process. In the event a nonrenewed probationary employee is not rehired by his/her former school, he/she will be interviewed for vacancies for which he/she has the qualifications. All qualified nonrenewed probationary employees will be interviewed unless more than three (3) are qualified in which case at least three (3) will be interviewed. Non-renewed probationary employees not selected for rehire may request a meeting with the appropriate District administrator to review the employee’s concerns.
D-20.4.2	Non-probationary employees will be recalled for
position vacancies for which these employees have the required qualifications. Employees will be recalled according to seniority unless program needs dictate otherwise.
D-20.4.3 Reduced employees who wish to be considered for reemployment will provide written notification to the Executive Director of Human Resources, which will include area(s) of qualification, position desired,
38
address, and telephone number. Such information must be kept current by the employees so affected.
D-20.4.4 A non-probationary employee reduced in section D-20.3 who can become qualified for a vacancy which is identified prior to June 1, shall be given priority over a new hire in filling such vacancy provided he/she becomes qualified for the position on or before August 15, prior to the ensuing school year. The employee will submit a letter of intent stating his/her plan, including timelines, for becoming qualified in the identified area(s). It is understood that upon completion of the qualification requirements a contract will be offered to the employee for the ensuing school year. Tuition reimbursement provisions (E-44) will apply.
D-20.5 Non-probationary employees who are offered reemployment in section D-20.4.2 will have fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of notification to accept or reject the offer. Non-probationary employees will forfeit their recall rights for reemployment if the offer of reemployment is rejected or if they fail to respond within fourteen (14) calendar days.
D-20.6 Reduction in force employees will retain accumulated leave status (providing reimbursement for accumulated leave has not been made), position on the salary schedule, employee status, and shall also have the option to maintain medical and life insurance at their own expense for a period not to exceed two years.
D-20.7 No new employees will be hired for a period of two years unless all non-probationary employees who were reduced as provided in section D-20.3 have been given the opportunity to fill openings for which they have the necessary qualifications.
D-20.8 For two years after being laid off employees who have been laid off will be given priority in substitute assignments for positions for which they are qualified, except where a specific substitute is requested by the classroom employee or administration. The sole remedy for a failure to call an employee for a substitute assignment shall be the granting of an alternate assignment when it becomes available.
D-21 QUALIFICATIONS: In the exercise of seniority in a reduction in force, the employee must have the qualifications necessary to perform the assignment involved. Qualifications shall include licensure by the Colorado Department of Education and/or endorsement by the North Central Association or
39
equivalent, and specific job qualifications and training where they are established prerequisites of the District. In cases when seniority considerations or an employee’s qualifications, personal, or professional, are questioned, representatives of the Association and the employee concerned shall meet with the appropriate District administrator and the Executive Director of Human Resources to discuss the question. The employee will be subsequently notified of the decision by the Executive Director of Human Resources.
*D-22 RESIGNATION AND REEMPLOYMENT: An employee who resigns from the Boulder Valley Schools after June 1, 2004 and later applies for a new appointment will be granted a maximum of 5 years outside experience in addition to local credit.
D-23 SUBSTITUTES: A list of qualified substitutes shall be available at all times during the school year and shall be provided to the building principal for his/her and faculty use. Teachers may recommend to the Human Resources Division, from the approved list, the name of a specific substitute as a replacement during their absence. If that substitute is available, the Human Resources Division will honor that request.
D-24 STUDENT TEACHERS: After consultation with the principal, an employee may refuse the assignment of a student teacher if, in the employee’s judgment, his/her classes will suffer from having a student teacher.
D-25 ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS: Employees shall be included in the selection of building administrators as prescribed in Board policy.
D-25.1 Lateral transfer of building administrators is exempt from this provision, however, committee recommendations are advisable.
D-26 LEARNING MATERIALS: Learning materials that require Board approval shall be evaluated by a committee prior to adoption. The number of persons on the committee shall be determined by the Deputy Superintendent. At least two-thirds of the members shall be employees in the appropriate subject areas. The remaining members may be appointed by the Deputy Superintendent.
D-26.1 Reference and supplementary materials may also be evaluated by a committee if the Deputy Superintendent determines it is advisable.
D-26.2 The Board may accept or reject the learning materials selected by the evaluation committees or ask for further recommendations.
*Identifies new or revised language
40
D-27 CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT: The Board of Education and the Association agree to a continuation and an expansion of the present policy of involving employees in curriculum development.
D-27.1 Released time and/or payment for such work shall be provided at the Curriculum Development rate.
D-27.2 New programs and curricular changes will be preceded by appropriate in-service education of employees. Materials and equipment to support such programs will be provided before the new program is scheduled to begin.
D-28 PERFORMANCE CONTRACTING: The Board of Education agrees that no organization or individual(s) will be employed to provide any student instruction which would result in the dismissal of any employee now employed.
D-29 SALARY NOTIFICATION AND CHANGES: The Human Resources Division will provide all Unit B employees with a checklist of any items needed for their personnel file. This list will be initialed by a personnel clerk as each item is received. An incomplete checklist will constitute a reason for withholding a paycheck.
D-29.1 If any employee has not been notified as provided in D-29, the employee shall receive a paycheck as soon as practicable.
D-29.2 Each Unit B employee shall receive a letter or other written notification prior to a salary change explaining how the salary under each new contract or column change is to be computed; such letter or other written notification to be in the hands of the teacher at least one week prior to the effective pay date.
D-30 EMPLOYEE EXCHANGE
D-30.1 Employees interested in exchanges with other employees in the Boulder Valley School District shall first discuss their interest with their principal or supervisor. No later than February 15, employees shall notify the Human Resources Division of their interest for an exchange for the ensuing school year.
D-30.2 Employees considering an exchange must hold the appropriate licensure and/or credentials for the positions desired.
D-30.3 The Human Resources Division will compile all requests and provide the information to each school for posting no later than March 1.
41
D-30.4 After discussing the potential exchange with the principal or supervisor, employees are responsible for contacting other employees interested in an exchange.
D-30.5 An exchange proposal, using the appropriate form, must be filed with the Human Resources Division no later than April 15. The proposal shall include the requests of the employees and the support of the building principals involved in the exchange.
D-30.6 Exchanges will be normally limited to one year. Extensions may be requested for an additional year or for a permanent exchange of assignments. Such requests shall include the written support of the employees and the building principals involved in the exchange.
*D-31 LIMITED TERM/TEMPORARY CONTRACT
Limited term/temporary contracts may be used for employment of probationary employees at the careful discretion of the administration. Under normal circumstances their primary uses include:
1.	Contractual arrangements for all individuals employed in less than four (4) clock hours per day.
2.	Contractual arrangements for individuals employed to replace a member of Unit B who is on a leave of absence.
3.	Contractual arrangements for members of Unit B employed on or after the first day of the school year.
4.	Contractual arrangements for members of Unit B employed to serve in a specially funded project and/or pilot program.
When limited term/temporary contracts are used the following conditions shall govern:
1.	An employee employed on a limited term/temporary contract will have his/her employment expire at the end of the term set forth in his/her contract. An employee so employed will waive the right to automatic renewal unless he/she is completing his/her third year of qualified employment. An employee on limited term/temporary contract will receive non-renewal notice at the end of the third year of employment.
2.	Time accumulated by an employee employed pursuant to a limited term/temporary contract will count for the acquisition of teacher status, provided that such accumulated time would otherwise qualify the employee for teacher status under state law.
*Identifies new or revised language
42
3.	Once an employee receives a regular contract, his/her seniority shall originate from the date the employee first reported for work, including the time on a limited term/temporary contract, provided the employee was employed for at least four (4) clock hours per day and the service is not interrupted.
4.	Positions held by limited term/temporary employees will be posted according to the provisions of D-15.
Employees who are hired under limited term contracts and who distinguish themselves by outstanding performance as reflected in their formal written evaluation reports, shall receive priority consideration for regular teaching positions in the District when compared to other limited term contract employees and new hires.
SECTION E: COMPENSATION
E-1 COMPENSATION RATE: All Unit B employees for whom a special schedule is not included herein shall have their salary determined from the employees’ salary schedule. The salary provided in the index appropriate for education and experience shall be for the 187 day contract (C-3). Each day of work in excess of the 187 days shall be compensated at 1/187 of the annual salary (provided for the 187 days) per day. Hourly rate shall be compensated at the daily rate divided by 7 except as otherwise established in this Agreement.
*E-1.1 Effective September 1, 2004, the base salary shall be $30,096. For the school year 2005-06, a parameter of ninety percent (90%) of the net new money from the School Finance Act will be established. Unit B employees will participate in such parameter based upon the ration of teacher compensation on the current salary schedule to total compensation for all employees. Compensation to be defined as steps, benefits including health and dental and an agreed upon cost of living amount determined by funds available.
The parameter of ninety percent (90%) depends upon its appropriation by the Board of Education for the budget applicable to the 2005-06 school year. The Master Agreement will otherwise remain unchanged. Net New Money shall be defined as the projected increase in total program revenue less the increases in district expenses required to fulfill the following state and local mandates: charter schools, instructional supplies and materials, pupil count requirements, capital reserve fund and risk fund allocation, TABOR Emergency Reserve and any such new mandates as required by legislation.**
**Refer to agreed upon cost procedural documents.
*Identifies new or revised language
43
E-1.2
LONGEVITY SALARY INCREMENTS. Any Unit B employee who participated in the Career Longevity Program will be paid on the appropriate pay table.
STEP ATTAINED
Education	BA-48/MA	MA +12	MA + 36	MA+48	DOC
Level 1	18	18	19	20	21
Level 2	21	21	22	23	24
Level 3	24	24	25	26	27
AMOUNT OF INCREMENT
	2000-01	2003-04
Level 1	$ 600.00	$2,000.00
Level 2	$1,200.00	$4,000.00
Level 3	$1,800.00	$6,500.00
E-2 Employees will be paid their salary in twelve (12) monthly installments on the last business day of each month, except for December when employees will be paid on the last workday.
STIPENDS
E-3 MILEAGE: Employees required to use their own automobile, as discussed in Section D-12.1, shall be reimbursed at the IRS Standard Mileage Rate.
E-4 CLASSROOM VACANCIES: Assignment to classroom vacancies as discussed in Section C-13 shall be compensated at the rate of .000719 of base salary (BA+0 Step 1) per hour or major fraction of an hour.
E-5 CREDIT HOURS: Credit for training as shown on the salary schedules in the Agreement is based on semester hours.
E-6 CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT: Salary is determined on the basis of an hourly rate of .000719 of base salary (BA+0 Step 1).
E-7 INSERVICE EDUCATION RATE: Salary is determined on the basis of an hourly rate of .000719 of base salary (BA+0 Step 1).
*E-8 SPECIAL EDUCATION STIPENDS: All special education teachers shall be paid $300 per contract year in addition to their salary as determined by the regular salary schedule. (See E-12)
*Identifies new or revised language
44
E-9
NATIONAL BOARD CERTIFICATION STIPEND: Employees who complete the necessary requirements and are certified through the National Board Certification program will receive a five percent (5%) stipend. Such stipend will be effective the semester following submission of certification to the Human Resources Division and will be paid in equal monthly installments.
E-10 LIBRARIANS: School librarians shall work a contract year of 187 days. In addition, each librarian may be granted up to four additional days to be arranged by the principal in cooperation with the librarian and with the approval of the appropriate District administrator.
E-11 COUNSELORS: Counselors who are full-time employees and who are assigned to counseling fifty percent or more of their time shall work the counselors’ work year and work day and be paid on the counselor salary schedule. Full-time employees whose counseling assignment is less than fifty percent shall have their work year, work day, and salary prorated for actual counseling and teaching time.
*E-12 For the 2004-05 and 2005-06 school years, a sum of $270,000 per year in one time dollars will be distributed as follows:
1.	$25,000 - Salary Schedule Task Force
2.	$60,000 - Job Share Partner health and dental benefits (up to 15)
3.	$185,000 - Special Education teachers will receive an additional $400 stipend.
Occupational/Physical Therapists and Speech/Language Specialists will receive a $700 stipend.
*Identifies new or revised language
45
*E-13
EMPLOYEE SALARY SCHEDULE
September 2004
Step	BA	BA+12	BA+24	BA+36	BA+48	MA	MA+12	MA+24	MA+36	MA+48	PHD
1	30096	30698	31300	31902	32504	32504	33106	33708	34309	34911	34911
2	30848	31480	32082	32714	33316	33316	33948	34550	35182	35784	35784
3	32714	33316	33948	34550	35182	35182	35784	36416	37018	37650	37650
4	34550	35182	35784	36416	37018	37018	37650	38252	38884	39486	39486
5	36356	36898	37831	39004	40840	40840	41683	42586	43489	44392	46468
6	39305	39907	40840	42014	43790	43790	44693	45535	46468	47401	49448
7	41683	42315	43218	44362	46167	46167	47070	47943	48846	49779	51825
8	43519	44091	45024	46227	48003	48003	48936	49839	50742	51645	53751
9	43639	45294	46227	47431	49237	49237	50140	51043	51976	52879	54955
10	43639	45445	47431	48635	50441	50441	51344	52247	53180	54083	56189
11	43639	45445	48635	49839	51645	51645	52548	53481	54383	55286	57393
12	43639	45445	48786	51043	52879	52879	53751	54684	55527	56460	58597
13	43639	45445	48786	51163	54052	54052	54955	55888	56761	57694	59801
14	43639	45445	48786	51163	55527	55527	56189	57092	57965	58898	61005
15	43639	45445	48786	51163	55527	55527	57694	58296	59169	60102	62208
16	43639	45445	48786	51163	55527	55527	57694	59861	60403	61336	63412
17	43639	45445	48786	51163	55527	55527	57694	59861	62028	62931	65098
18	43639	45445	48786	51163	57544	57544	59710	61877	62028	64165	66332
19	43639	45445	48786	51163	57544	57544	59710	61877	64014	64165	67566
20	43639	45445	48786	51163	57544	57544	59710	61877	64014	66181	67566
21	43639	45445	48786	51163	59560	59560	61727	63894	64014	66181	69582
22	43639	45445	48786	51163	59560	59560	61727	63894	66031	66181	69582
23	43639	45445	48786	51163	59560	59560	61727	63894	66031	68198	69582
24	43639	45445	48786	51163	62088	62088	64255	66422	66572	68198	71598
25	43639	45445	48786	51163	62088	62088	64255	66422	68559	68769	71598
26	43639	45445	48786	51163	62088	62088	64255	66422	68559	70726	71598
27	43639	45445	48786	51163	62088	62088	64255	66422	68559	70726	74126
28	43639	45445	48786	51163	62088	62088	64255	66422	68559	70726	74126
*E-13.1 Guidelines for Outside Experience: Teaching experience in regular accredited public schools, state approved or recognized or accredited private K-12 schools, public or private junior colleges, colleges, universities and vocational technical school will count as credit on the employee salary schedule on the basis of a one (1) year advancement on the schedule for each year of outside experience to a maximum of 5 years.
E-13.1.1 Audiologists, occupational therapists, physical therapists, and speech and language specialists will be granted outside experience for state, agency, or private clinic or hospital employment with responsibilities involving K-12 age students.
E-13.2 Partial years of ninety (90) or more teaching days of such experience shall be counted as full years of experience in giving outside experience credit. Substitute teaching does not qualify.
*Identifies new or revised language
46
*E-14
COUNSELOR SALARY SCHEDULE
August 1, 2004
Counselors salary shall be determined from the Employee Salary Schedule base salary.
Step	MA	MA+12	MA+24	MA+36	MA+48	PHD
1	37018	37650	38282	38914	39546	39546
2	37861	38523	39185	39847	40479	40479
3	39847	40479	41141	41803	42465	42465
4	41803	42465	43097	43760	44422	44422
5	45836	46739	47702	48665	49598	51795
6	48966	49929	50832	51795	52788	54955
7	51494	52457	53360	54323	55316	57483
8	53450	54414	55377	56340	57303	59530
9	54745	55708	56671	57634	58597	60794
10	56009	56972	57935	58928	59891	62118
11	57303	58266	59229	60192	61155	63382
12	58597	59530	60523	61426	62389	64676
13	59861	60794	61787	62720	63713	65940
14	61426	62118	63081	63984	64977	67204
15	61426	63713	64345	65278	66271	68498
16	61426	63713	66001	66572	67566	69763
17	61426	63713	66001	68288	69251	71568
18	63563	65850	68137	68288	70575	72862
19	63563	65850	68137	70395	70575	74187
20	63563	65850	68137	70395	72712	74187
21	65700	67987	70274	70395	72712	76323
22	65700	67987	70274	72531	72712	76323
23	65700	67987	70274	72531	74849	76323
24	68378	70665	72953	73133	74849	78460
25	68378	70665	72953	75210	75451	78460
26	68378	70665	72953	75210	77527	78460
27	68378	70665	72953	75210	77527	81139
28	68378	70665	72953	75210	77527	81139
Each day of work in excess of the 197 days shall be compensated at 1/197 of the annual salary (provided for the 197 days) per day. Hourly rate shall be the daily rate divided by 8 except as otherwise established in the Agreement.
Counselor’s Index: 1.06 x (employee’s index + 0.08) figured to the nearest 1/1000.
Length of Assignment: 190 days plus 7 days in-service. Length of Day: 8 hours.
*Identifies new or revised language
47
*E-15
PSYCHOLOGISTS AND SOCIAL WORKERS September 1, 2004
Psychologists and social workers salary shall be determined from the Employee Salary Schedule base salary.
Step	MA	MA+12	MA+24	MA+36	MA+48	PHD
1	38523	39426	40329	41232	42736	44241
2	39486	40419	41322	42255	43940	45445
3	41322	42255	43338	44241	45746	47251
4	43338	44241	45144	46047	47552	49056
5	48455	49357	50260	51193	52728	54293
6	51494	52427	53360	54293	55979	57483
7	53962	54895	55979	56881	58386	59891
8	55196	56280	57182	58085	59590	61095
9	56580	57483	58386	59289	60794	62299
10	57784	58687	59590	60493	61998	63563
11	58687	59590	60493	61396	62931	64466
12	59590	60493	61396	62299	63834	65399
13	60493	61396	62299	63232	64767	66301
14	61396	62299	63232	64165	65700	67234
15	61396	63232	64165	65068	66602	68318
16	61396	63232	65068	66001	67535	69221
17	61396	63232	65068	66934	68619	70124
18	63202	64706	66512	66934	68619	70124
19	63202	64706	66512	68318	68649	71027
20	63202	64706	66512	68318	70726	71057
21	65308	66813	68619	70425	70726	73133
22	65308	66813	68619	70425	70726	73133
23	65308	66813	68619	70425	72832	73133
24	67716	69221	71027	72832	73133	75240
25	67716	69221	71027	72832	73133	75240
26	67716	69221	71027	72832	75240	75541
27	67716	69221	71027	72832	75240	77648
28	67716	69221	71027	72832	75240	77648
Length of Assignment: 180 days plus 7 days in-service
Length of Day: 8 hours
*E-15.1 Guidelines for Outside Experience: Outside experience for psychologists and social workers hired after July 1, 2001 will be granted under the following guidelines:
a.	Job related non-teaching experience must postdate an MSW degree of MA degree in Psychology.
*Identifies new or revised language
48
b.	Experience must result from paid employment.
c.	Experience must include K-12 school employment, and/or state, agency, or private clinic or hospital employment with responsibilities involving K-12 age students.
d.	New candidates will be granted a maximum of 5 years outside experience.
E-15.2 Partial years of ninety (90) or more teaching days of such experience or six (6) months or more of job related non-teaching experience shall be counted as a full year of experience in giving outside experience credit. Substitute teaching does not qualify.
EXTRA PAY FOR EXTRA DUTY September 1, 2002
E-16 Extra pay for extra duties and responsibilities shall be provided in accordance with the extra pay for extra duty schedule providing that such duties and responsibilities are in addition to a full teaching assignment. Employees with released time or class time to assume assigned responsibilities will not be entitled to extra duty pay. Certification of employees contracted for extra duty shall be by the building principal and the appropriate District administrator. Extra pay is determined by the extra duty assignment and the years of service in the assignment.
E-16.1 The minimum extra pay allowance (step 1) for extra duty is computed by multiplying the stated percentage by the base salary. Steps two through eight are computed by multiplying the stated percentage by the dollar amounts in steps two through eight in the BA column of the employees salary schedule. The eight steps are experience steps.
E-16.2 Employees newly appointed to an extra duty assignment shall be placed on step one. Employees already employed in an extra duty assignment will be placed on the appropriate experience step. Experience in another extra pay assignment or in another school district does not apply.
E-16.3 Extra pay for extra duty may, under certain circumstances, be prorated between employees. Under no circumstances will a proration of less than .01 be permitted.
49
E-16.4
JOB TITLE Senior High Athletics	LENGTH OF ASSIGNMENT	INDEX
Head Football Coach	Per Season	.111
Assistant Football Coach	Per Season	.074
Head Basketball Coach	Per Season	.111
Assistant Basketball Coach	Per Season	.074
Head Track Coach	Per Season	.084
Assistant Track Coach	Per Season	.063
Head Wrestling Coach	Per Season	.084
Assistant Wrestling Coach	Per Season	.063
Head Baseball Coach	Per Season	.084
Assistant Baseball Coach	Per Season	.063
Head Softball Coach	Per Season	.084
Assistant Softball Coach	Per Season	.063
Head Ski Coach	Per Season	.084
Assistant Ski Coach	Per Season	.063
Head Soccer Coach	Per Season	.084
Assistant Soccer Coach	Per Season	.063
Head Gymnastics Coach	Per Season	.074
Assistant Gymnastics Coach	Per Season	.053
Head Swimming Coach	Per Season	.074
Assistant Swimming Coach	Per Season	.053
Head Volleyball Coach	Per Season	.084
Assistant Volleyball Coach	Per Season	.063
Head Cross Country Coach	Per Season	.063
Assistant Cross Country Coach	Per Season	.040
Head Tennis Coach	Per Season	.063
Assistant Tennis Coach	Per Season	.040
Head Golf Coach	Per Season	.063
Assistant Golf Coach	Per Season	.040
Coaches whose teams qualify for and participate in recognized CHSAA State Play-offs or Championships beyond the regular schedule of league play-offs shall receive a percentage of season extra duty pay for each week that a team is involved in post season competition. Only competitions that occur outside the regular extra duty contract period will qualify for extra pay.
Senior High Activities
Yearbook Sponsor
--Schools with enrollment over 1000
--Schools with enrollment under 1000
50 hours after school
50 hours
after school
.100
.069
50
Newspaper Sponsor
Choir Director
Assistant Choir Director
Director of Musical
Assistant Director of Musical
Stage Technical Assistant (Musical)
Marching Band Director
Assistant Marching Band
Director
Color Guard
Percussion Instructor
Band Director
Assistant Band Director
Orchestra Director
Forensics Director
11 or more meets
6-10 meets
Director of Full-Length Play
Assistant Director of
Full-Length Play
Stage Technical Assistant (Play)
50 hours	.069
after school	
50 hours	.069
after school	
50 hours	.027
after school	
50 hours	.080
after school	
50 hours	.027
after school	
50 hours	.035
after school	
50 hours	.069
after school	
50 hours	.027
after school	
50 hours	.027
after school	
50 hours	.027
after school	
50 hours	.058
after school	
50 hours	.027
after school	
50 hours	.042
after school	
Per Year	.058
Per Year	.042
50 hours	.069
after school	
50 hours	.027
after school	
50 hours	.035
after school	
51
One-Act Play Director	Per Play	.021
Student Council Sponsor	50 hours after school	.048
VICA, PBL, FBLA, FHA,	50 hours	.048
DECA, HERO Sponsors	after school	
Thespian Sponsor	50 hours after school	.048
Student Activity Director	50 hours after school	.032
National Honor Society Sponsor	50 hours after school	.032
Senior Class Sponsor	Per Year	.021
Junior Class Sponsor	Per Year	.021
Sophomore Class Sponsor	Per Year	.011
Freshman Class Sponsor	Per Year	.011
Links Sponsor	Per Year	.032
Spirit Sponsor (Chrldr/Pom Pon)	Per Season	.063
Intramurals	40 hour program	.029
Marching Band directors and Assistants who are expected to accompany athletic teams to recognized CHSAA State Playoffs or Championships beyond the regular schedule of league play-offs shall receive a percentage of their extra duty pay for each week that the marching band is involved in post season competition. Directors and Sponsors whose student groups qualify for recognized CHSAA State competitions shall receive a percentage of their extra duty pay for each week that the student group is involved in the post season competition.
Only competitions that occur outside the regular extra duty contract period will qualify for extra pay.
Middle Level Athletics Head Football Coach Assistant Football Coach Head Basketball Coach Assistant Basketball Coach Head Volleyball Coach Assistant Volleyball Coach Head Softball Coach Assistant Softball Coach Head Wrestling Coach Assistant Wrestling Coach Head Track Coach Assistant Track Coach
Per Season	.059
Per Season	.040
Per Season	.048
Per Season	.032
Per Season	.048
Per Season	.032
Per Season	.048
Per Season	.032
Per Season	.048
Per Season	.032
Per Season	.048
Per Season	.032
Middle Level Activities Yearbook Sponsor
Newspaper Sponsor
Choir Director
Director of Musical
Assistant Director of Musical
Band Director
Orchestra Director
Director of Full-Length Play
Assistant Director of
Full-Length Play
One-Act Play Director Student Council Sponsor
Intramural Director
Intramurals
Pep Club and Spirit Group Sponsor
SAPP Student Sponsor
Web Sponsor
40 hours	.037
after school	
40 hours	.032
after school	
40 hours	.048
after school	
40 hours	.042
after school	
40 hours	.011
after school	
40 hours	.048
after school	
40 hours	.037
after school	
40 hours	.042
after school	
40 hours	.011
after school	
Per Play	.011
40 hours	.032
after school	
40 hours	.032
after school	
40 hour	.029
program	
Per Year	.021
Per Year	.021
Per Year	.032
Elementary Level Activities
Elementary schools will be allocated extra duty time on a prorated basis as determined by student enrollment. The extra duty time will be paid at the rate of .03 of the BA base salary for a 40-hour program. The use of these hours will be determined through shared decision making. The activities which may be considered are:
a. Choir Director
b.	School Newspaper sponsor
c.	Student Council Sponsor
d.	Intramurals
e.	Director of Play
f.	Director of Musical
g.	Conflict Mediation Supervisor
53
h.	Club Sponsor
i.	Other duties, as deemed appropriate
DEPARTMENT CHAIRPERSON AND OUTDOOR EDUCATION
E-17 Chairpersons who do not receive released time as provided in C-10 may be compensated as follows: If, in addition to the department chairperson there is one, two, or three persons - $400; four persons -$450; five persons - $500; six persons - $550; seven persons - $600; eight persons - $650; nine persons - $700; ten persons - $750; eleven persons - $800; twelve or more persons - $850. (“Persons” means FTE or major fraction thereof.)
Team leaders will receive a compensation of $750.
Employees responsible for the supervision of students in an outdoor education program and who remain overnight shall receive fifty (50) dollars per night. This amount shall be in addition to the employee’s regular pay and shall apply only to employees designated by the building administrator.
*E-18
*VOCATIONAL-TECHNICAL SALARY SCHEDULE 2004-05
Vocational-Technical salaries shall be determined from the Teacher’s Salary base.
Grade	05 Step	04-05 187 Day Salary
VC+B24	12	56606
VC+120	13	56606
VC+40	13	51494
VC+M	11	56298
VC+120	13	56606
VC+B	18	57513
VC+40	13	51494
VC+B	18	57513
Work Year: 187 days
Related Work Experience: Effective January 1, 1980, add .04 index points for each year up to six (6) years (maximum of .24)
One year = 2000 hours
*Identifies new or revised language
54
QUALIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF VOCATIONAL - TECHNICAL CENTER EMPLOYEES
E-19 MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: Instructors in Vocational and Technical Education must meet the requirements for a Vocational Credential for the particular field of training as determined by the Colorado State Board for Community Colleges and Occupational Education.
E-19.1 Vocational-Technical Center instructors without a Bachelor’s Degree will be encouraged to work toward a Bachelor’s Degree and complete all courses as required by the State Vocational Plan of the Colorado Board for Community Colleges and Occupational Education.
E-19.2	All Vocational-Technical instructors will be required to meet in-
service training requirements and to complete the necessary studies to keep their credentials and/or teaching licenses in force.
E-19.3 SALARY REQUIREMENTS
1.	A Vocational-Technical Center instructor will start at the index location on the Vocational-Technical Center salary schedule that corresponds with his/her level of academic achievement and years of teaching experience, plus additional index points for work experience. The Vocational-Technical Center instructor shall be given credit for outside teaching experience up through five years.
2.	Additional work days beyond the 187 day contract year for Vocational-Technical Center instructors and 197 day contract year for Vocational-Technical Center counselors shall be compensated on the basis of their regular salary computed on a daily basis.
3.	Instruction by a Vocational-Technical Center instructor in curriculum development shall be compensated at the rates as provided in Section E-5.
4.	Released time needed for Vocational-Technical Center instructors to visit high schools, vocational-technical schools, and businesses shall be approved within normal District guidelines.
5.	Department Chairpersons in the Vocational-Technical
55
Center will receive a yearly amount of $125.00 for each full-time employee or full-time equivalent in the Department including the Chairperson. The extra pay is to compensate for time required “outside” of regular school hours in carrying out responsibilities assigned by the Vocational-Technical Center principal. A full-time employee or equivalent is considered an employee with a total of six (6) periods of assigned classes daily.
6.	The Vocational-Technical Center instructor will be compensated for his/her applicable work experience above the bachelor’s degree or for a non-degree instructor above two years of work experience.
7.	Partial years of ninety (90) or more teaching days of such experience shall be counted as full years of experience in giving outside experience.
GROUP INSURANCE
*	E-20 HEALTH, HOSPITALIZATION AND LIFE INSURANCE: The Board of Education will pay a maximum of the Cigna HMO rate of increase per month towards the employee premium for Health, Hospitalization and Life Insurance plans in effect from July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2006.
E-20.1The District will pay the premium for a $20,000 term life insurance policy for each eligible employee.
E-21 LONG TERM DISABILITY INSURANCE: The Board of Education shall pay the full premium for a Long-Term Disability Insurance plan and will continue such payment for the duration of the Agreement.
*	E-22 DENTAL INSURANCE: The Board of Education shall provide a Dental Insurance plan in effect from July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2006.
E-23 PLAN CONTENTS: The contents of the Health, Hospitalization and Life, Long-Term Disability, and Dental plans shall be mutually agreed upon by the Association and the Board of Education.
E-24 LIABILITY INSURANCE: A liability insurance policy in the usual form shall be purchased by the Board of Education. Employees of the District acting within the scope of their employment shall be named as insured parties under the policy. A copy of this policy shall be provided to the Association.
*	Identifies new or revised language
56
E-25 INSURANCE COMMITTEE: During the term of this Agreement either party may request up to two meetings per year to meet and confer regarding general contractual insurance matters. Additional meetings may be held upon mutual agreement of the parties. Each party may appoint two representatives for these discussions. The District Insurance Consultant may be requested to attend such meetings. The insurance committee will make decisions by consensus.
E-26 PERA AND WORKERS’ COMPENSATION: PERA and Workers’ Compensation as established by the statutes of the State of Colorado shall be provided members of Unit B by the Boulder Valley School District.
*E-26.1 PERA MATCHMAKER PROGRAM: The district will continue to participate in the PERA Matchmaker Program according to current PERA guidelines. This contract language is subject to change as PERA guidelines change.
According to current PERA guidelines, employees who contribute to a qualified defined contribution plan such as a district approved 403b or PERA’s 401k Plan are eligible to receive a dollar for dollar match of the PERA eligible salary. This percentage match is determined annually by PERA.
*E-26.2 PERA SICK LEAVE CONVERSION
When the State Legislature and the Governor approved HB 1458 in July 1, 2000, school districts were given the option of allowing employees to convert accrued unused sick leave for the purpose of calculating the highest average salary (HAS) in determining PERA benefits. Our district has elected to allow eligible employees to make such conversions under the requirements provided in the statute. This contract language is subject to change as PERA guidelines change. A partial list of guidelines follows:
Eligibility
1.	An employee must be eligible to retire under PERA (50 years of age as of June 30 and at least 25 years of service, 55 years of age as of June 30 and at least 20 years of service, 60 years of age as of June 30 and at least 5 years of service).
2.	An employee must be hired in Boulder Valley Public Schools (BVPS) prior to July 1, 1988.
*Identifies new or revised language
57
3.	An employee must have more than 360 hours of accrued sick leave.
4.	The eligibility period for this benefit is between February 1, 2001 and June 30, 2005.
Conversion Plan Components
1.	An employee may convert into salary for PERA purposes all or a portion of his/her accrued sick leave in excess of 360 hours.
2.	Any amount of accrued sick leave not converted in “1” above will be pain in accordance with the applicable negotiated Agreement or school district policies when the employee resigns/retires from BVPS. This payment is not included as salary for PERA purposes.
3.	An employee electing to convert accrued sick leave must do so before retirement.
Eligible employees may elect to convert sick leave once each fiscal year in March. The District retains the sole discretion with regard to the interpretation and applications of the provisions of this conversion option.
E-27 ANNUAL LEAVE
E-27.1 Effective with the 1996-97 work year, annual leave days will not accrue from one year to the next except as provided in section E-27.2. Each full-time contracted employee shall be allocated twelve (12) days of annual leave at the beginning of the current contract year.
E-27.1.1 An employee who works less than 187 days in a school year or who has less than a full time assignment shall receive annual leave on a prorata basis.
E-27.1.2 In the event that an employee’s contract is terminated prior to the termination date stated on the contract and the employee has used more days than he/she has accrued, an hourly pro-rata reduction will be made on the final paycheck to the employee, except in cases of death or other such circumstances beyond the control of the employee.
E-27.2 By June 1, of each year, each employee who wishes to accumulate such days shall designate in writing on the
58
appropriate school district form the number of unused days to be accumulated that contract year. An employee shall not be paid pursuant to section E-27.3 for days so designated. An employee who does not have at least twenty-five (25) annual leave days may accumulate up to twenty-five (25) annual leave days.
E-27.3 Each July, each employee shall receive a payment at the
starting substitute teacher daily rate for all annual leave days accrued but not used by him/her during the preceding school year. Annual leave days that are included in the July payment may not be carried over to the next contract year.
E-27.4 An employee intending to use annual leave shall notify the
school district’s substitute calling system at least five (5) days prior, when possible, to the day(s) on which such leave is taken.
E-27.5 An employee who exhausts his/her annual leave may, at the
discretion of the Executive Director of Human Resources or designee, be granted additional days of leave without pay. Extended leaves of absence may be requested under sections E-37 through E-42.
E-27.6 Except as provided in section E-27.7, the accrued sick leave
balance for each employee will be frozen at the level in place as of June 7, 1996. An employee who resigns, retires or is reduced in force on or after June 7, 1996, will receive payment for the frozen unused sick leave days as follows:
Years of Full-time Service Rate Paid for Each Day
as of June 7, 1996	Accrued as of June 7, 1996
11 - 15
16 - 20
21 - 25
26 and above
$48.86
61.08
73.30
91.62
E-27.6.1 An employee will not be reimbursed for frozen sick leave days used pursuant to section E-27.7.
E-27.6.2 In the event of death of an employee, payment
of accumulated sick leave shall be made to the employee’s estate.
59
E-27.7 An employee may use frozen accumulated leave days from his/her accrued frozen sick leave balance as provided in section E-27.6 subject to the following conditions:
1.	Annual leave days provided pursuant to section E-27.1 shall be used before section E-27.6 may be used.
2.	Up to a maximum of twenty (20) frozen sick leave days per work year may be used for the serious illness or death of a member of one’s immediate family as defined in section E-30. In cases with extenuating circumstances an employee may request a variance for the use of additional days under this section. The sick leave bank committee noted in section E-28.12 will determine such variances. Decisions of the committee shall be final and binding and not grievable.
Other provisions:
E-27.8 An employee on an extended leave of absence without pay will retain his/her accumulated leave as provided in sections E-27.1 and E-27.6 but will not accrue further leave until he/she returns to work on paid status.
E-27.9 When an employee is required to contribute a day(s) to the Sick Leave Bank as provided for in section E-28, such day(s) will be subtracted from the annual leave days in section E-27.1 and will not be subtracted from the accrued sick leave days as provided for in section E-27.7.
E-27.10 An employee will have annual leave deducted based upon the number of hours absent from work. An employee must count a planning period the same as an instruction period when absent from work.
E-27.11 In addition to using annual leave, an employee may use up to three (3) days of leave to observe religious holidays which occur on regularly scheduled work days, provided such days are made up by arrangement with the respective principals and are used for regular job-related activities.
E-28 SICK LEAVE BANK
E-28.1 A sick leave bank will be established as of September 1, 1996. All employees shall be eligible to participate on a voluntary basis.
E-28.2 An employee has the option of enrolling in the Bank during the
60
open enrollment period from the first contract day each year through September 15 , or for employees hired after September 1, during the first ten days of that employee’s contract. To be enrolled in the Bank for that contract year, each employee will donate one (1) day of his/her annual leave to the Bank.
E-28.2.1 An employee who works less than 187 days in a school year or who has less than a full-time assignment shall donate and receive Bank days on a pro-rata basis.
E-28.3 Days donated to the Bank in section E-28.2 will be considered in the Bank as of the first scheduled work day of each school year.
E-28.4 An employee may withdraw from membership in the Bank between the first contract day each year through September 15, by designating such in writing on the appropriate school district form. An employee will not be able to withdraw any days which such employee has previously contributed.
E-28.5 Any employee applying for Sick Leave Bank benefits must have used at least twenty-five (25) consecutive leave days prior to making application. Such leave may consist of annual leave days, frozen accumulated sick leave days as defined in section E-27.6 provided the employee is ill or injured, and/or leave without pay.
E-28.6 Any remainder of the employee’s accumulated annual leave days and/or frozen accumulated sick leave days as defined in section E-27.6 will be the employee’s new balance.
E-28.7 A maximum of fifteen (15) days each contract year can be drawn by a full-time employee from the Bank in addition to the employee’s own accumulated annual leave days if any. Less than full-time employee’s days will be prorated accordingly.
E-28.8 An employee who is authorized leave days from the Bank will not be required to replace such days except as a regular contributing member to the Bank.
E-28.9 Leave days can only be authorized from the Bank for an employee’s illness or injury. Days will not be granted for an employee to care for someone else who is ill or disabled or for non-contracted days or days in which workers’ compensation
61
is available to the employee.
E-28.10 A request for authorization of Bank days must be accompanied by a statement from a qualified physician certifying that the employee is unable to fulfill the employee’s contractual obligations and explaining the medical reasons therefore.
E-28.11 Each full-time employee enrolling in the Bank will donate one day of such employee’s own annual leave to the Bank each September 1, until the Bank has accumulated 1500 days. Thereafter, no more days will be added until the Bank is depleted to 500 days except for days to be donated by new members which may be added to the Bank at any time.
E-28.12 Any variances from this “SICK LEAVE BANK” section shall be by the Sick Leave Bank Committee. The Committee shall consist of three (3) Unit B employees appointed by the Association and three (3) persons from the administrative staff appointed by the Superintendent.
E-28.12.1 Decisions of the Sick Leave Bank Committee shall be final and binding and not grievable.
INJURY LEAVE
E-29 Injury leave may be granted to protect an employee against temporary loss of salary when he/she sustains an injury arising out of, or in the course of, the actual performance of his/her job. Such injuries may entitle an employee to benefits under the Workers’ Compensation Act.
E-29.1 In order to receive these benefits, injured employees are required to report the injury without delay to their immediate supervisor; report to a duly qualified physician and have a verification of the injury made to the District; and file an application for Workers’ Compensation benefits within two working days in the Risk Management Office.
E-29.2 In the event of an on-the-job injury to the employee, which is deemed compensable under the Workers’ Compensation Law, the employee will continue to receive compensation that the employee otherwise would have normally earned for up to three (3) days. Such absence will not be charged to annual leave. In those cases where the insurance carrier assumes liability, the injured employee may, beginning with the fourth day of absence due to such injury, receive his/her full
62
salary from the School District less the amount of any workers’ compensation pay received for a period of time not to exceed thirty (30) working days. In such case the absence would not be charged to the employee’s annual leave.
E-29.3 After the end of the described thirty (30) work days, the employee has two options:
1.	He/she may use accumulated annual leave and be paid at his/her full salary less the amount of Workers’ Compensation pay. In such cases the absence is charged against the employee’s accumulated annual leave on a prorated basis.
2.	He/she may accept only Workers’ Compensation pay in which case annual leave will not be charged.
E-29.4 In cases where the insurance carrier fails to assume any liability, all absences may be charged under the regular annual leave provisions.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
E-30 When death occurs in an employee’s immediate family, he/she shall be granted three (3) working days off with pay for the time lost from work. The definition of “immediate family” for as used here shall be interpreted to include husband, wife, son, son-in-law, daughter, daughter-in-law, father, father-in-law, mother, mother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, brother, brother-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren of employee, domestic partner or any relative living in the immediate household of the employee. Any additional days will be charged to accumulated annual leave, frozen sick leave and/or leave without pay.
E-30.1 In unique circumstances, an employee may appeal to the Executive Director of Human Resources for a variance of this provision. Decisions of the Executive Director of Human Resources shall be final and binding and not grievable.
MISCELLANEOUS SHORT ABSENCES
E-31 TIME OFF TO VOTE: Employees who are qualified to vote will be given time off, without loss of pay, for the purpose of voting. Arrangements for such absences must be made in advance with the employee’s immediate supervisor.
63
E-32
JURY DUTY: Employees who are ordered to serve on jury duty will be granted time off with pay for court appearances.
E-33 COURT APPEARANCES:
E-33.1	Employees who are subpoenaed to appear in court on a
matter that involves the employee’s capacity as a District employee shall be granted time off with pay for court appearances.
E-33.2	Employees who are subpoenaed to appear in court as
witnesses shall be granted time off with pay upon presentation of court notice for such appearance(s).
E-33.3 Time off for court appearances on personal legal matters may be charged to annual leave. If more than an employee’s available annual leave is needed, the employee shall pay for the substitute time needed. Annual leave need not be used for absences of less than one-half day if arrangements are made with fellow employees as provided in C-13.1.
E-34 MILITARY LEAVE
E-34.1 MILITARY SERVICE: Any employee who is unable to perform the terms of an employment contract because of entry into military service as defined by the Selective Service Act of 1967, should notify the Human Resources Division, in writing, immediately upon receiving orders to report for military duty. Copies of such orders shall be submitted to the Human Resources Division. An employee who applies for reinstatement within the time periods provided by law will be reinstated.
E-34.2 MILITARY TRAINING LEAVE: Employees belonging to Guard or Reserve Units will be allowed to take up to fifteen (15) calendar days per year of time off from the regular duties for such military training. A leave not to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days per year shall be without any loss of pay provided that the employees on such military leave shall turn over to the District payment received for such services.
E-34.3 MILITARY LEAVE. Employees of the District who are members of the National Guard or the military reserves who are called to active military service will be entitled to continuation of District insurance coverage on the same basis
64
as they had prior to the call to service with the District making the same contribution as for other employees in the servicemember’s classification for a period of ninety (90) calendar days, or the duration of their military service, whichever is shorter. Such employees will also receive the difference between their military pay and their District pay for a period of ninety (90) calendar days or the period of service in the military, whichever is shorter. In addition, the employee may continue District insurance coverages including dependent coverage, but at the employee’s expense, on the same basis as available to current District employees, for a period of eighteen (18) months after being called to duty , for so long as the employee is in active military service.
EXTENDED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
E-35 RETURN RIGHT-REPLACEMENT: Upon request made at the time of leave application, the employee shall be returned to his/her former assignment provided the total duration of the leave is one (1) year or less. Such assurance would not be available if circumstances prohibit it. When an employee requests to return to his/her former assignment, the individual employees to fill a vacancy created by the leave of absence shall be employed on a temporary basis.
E-36 NOTIFICATION: An employee of the District whose leave of absence expires at the end of the fall semester shall notify the District of his/her intent to return by no later than December 1st. An employee of the District who is on leave during the spring semester and whose leave expires prior to the beginning of the following school year shall notify the District by April 1st of intent to return. Failure to so notify the District will result in termination unless there are mitigating circumstances which would make such notification impossible.
*E-37 LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR IMPROVEMENT OF HEALTH: Leaves of absence for improvement of health of the employee or the employee’s immediate family shall be granted upon written application accompanied by documentation from a medical doctor not to exceed one year in length.
E-38 LEAVE FOR GOVERNMENTAL SERVICE: An employee of the District elected or appointed to serve in a position of community, county, state, or national governmental service will be granted a leave of absence without pay if the governmental service requires the employee to be absent from his duties in the District.
*Identifies new or revised language
65
E-38.1 Daily salary deductions for this purpose shall be based on the actual salary of the employee divided by the number of scheduled work days for the employee for a specific year. If the governmental service requires daily part-time absence, salary deduction shall be prorated.
E-38.2 For the purpose of this policy, full-time campaigning in one’s behalf shall be construed as governmental service.
*E-39 FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE ACT: The conditions of this agreement will remain in compliance with current FMLA regulations
1.	Employees with required medical documentation will be granted up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for any of the following reasons:
a.	To care for the employee’s child after birth, or placement for adoption or foster care.
b.	To care for the employee’s family member who has a serious health condition.
c.	For a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform her/his job.
2.	Employees will use accrued paid leave for the absence up to their available balances unless the employee provides written notification to Human Resources prior to the beginning of the leave to use unpaid leave.
3.	For the duration of the 12 week leave, the District will maintain all group health, dental and life insurance benefits.
4.	The employee’s 12 week leave will not be considered a break in service and he/she will be reinstated to the same or equivalent job with the same pay, benefits and terms and conditions of employment on their return from leave in accordance with current FMLA regulations.
*E-40 EXTENDED ABSENCES FOR PERSONAL REASONS: Extended absences without pay for personal reasons, not to exceed one year in length, will not be granted for an employee to work outside the district. Provided, however, that employees who will teach in another country will be granted such leave when the leave conforms to the BVPS school calendar. An extension of such leave may be granted at the discretion of the Board of Education. In extenuating circumstances, the district may grant a leave for other purposes. A personal leave request is subject to the following conditions:
*Identifies new or revised language
66
1.	APPLICATION: An employee requesting an extended leave of absence for the second semester or third trimester shall submit such request to the Human Resources Division, with a copy to the principal, prior to December 1, of the semester or trimester preceding the leave. An employee requesting an extended leave of absence for the first semester or first or second trimester of the ensuing school year shall submit such request to the Human Resources Division, with a copy to the principal, prior to April 1, of the year preceding the leave. When unforeseen circumstances result in an employee request for leave after December 1st or April 1st, the Executive Director of Human Resources may waive the deadline dates.
2.	Approval must be recommended by the Superintendent and other administrative officials concerned.
3.	The Board of Education must approve the application.
*E-40.1 PARENTAL LEAVE: Extended absences for newborn child care or adoptive child care, not to exceed one year in length, shall be granted without pay to licensed employees (including probationary) according to the above conditions.
E-41 LEAVE FOR PROFESSIONAL STUDY: Upon the recommendation of the Superintendent, the Board of Education will consider the application of any full-time employee for a leave of absence without payment of regular salary for one quarter, one trimester, one semester or one year for the purpose of professional study. Such employee must have a minimum of five years of satisfactory and uninterrupted service in the Boulder Valley Schools. In special or unique circumstances, subject to the prior approval by the Executive Director of Human Resources, an extension of such leave may be granted.
E-41.1 For the purposes of this provision, neither military leave nor sick leave shall be interpreted as having interrupted service. Previous leave for travel or professional study or for the improvement of health, leave for exchange teaching, or miscellaneous personal leaves of extended length constitute interruption of service.
*Identifies new or revised language
67
E-41.2 LEAVE FOR PROFESSIONAL STUDY: APPLICATION: The application for a leave for professional study shall be filed in the office of the Executive Director of Human Resources no later than April 15, or November 1, preceding the term it is desired that the leave become effective. The application will be immediately referred to the appropriate District administrator for consideration and processing. The application should include a description of the program which the applicant plans to pursue during the absence, as well as a statement of the employee’s commitment to return to active service with the Boulder Valley Schools for at least one year. Failure to return for at least one year from a leave shall obligate the employee to refund any monies received under Section E-41.3 unless mitigating circumstances are accepted by the Board of Education as reason for waiving this obligation. In determining his/her recommendation to the Board of Education, the Superintendent of Schools will consider: a) the extent of the applicant’s professional study, growth and contributions during his/her term of service with the Boulder Valley Schools, b) the extent to which study will contribute to the cultural and technical qualifications of the employee for his/her work in the Boulder Valley Schools and c) the length of uninterrupted service in the Boulder Valley Schools.
E-41.3 Salary increments or reductions and employee rights will accrue to the employee while he/she is on leave for professional study.
E-41.4 LEAVE FOR PROFESSIONAL STUDY: SCHOLARSHIP: An eligible employee placed upon a leave of absence for professional study may apply to the Board of Education for a scholarship of $750 for one academic quarter, $1000 for one academic semester, or $2000 for a full academic year. Those employees who receive a scholarship shall execute a scholarship agreement with the Board of Education which shall include the following terms:
1.	As a condition of receiving the scholarship the teacher must satisfactorily complete all academic work or research projects in his/her program of study.
2.	The employee shall provide the Superintendent of Schools with a transcript of grades upon receipt of the same, and will provide any additional reports or information as may be reasonably required by the Superintendent.
68
	3.	The employee shall agree to return to the District following the leave of absence and to enter upon and perform the services of a employee or administrator for a period of at least one year. Should the employee fail to do this, all sums paid shall immediately become due and payable from the employee to the School District. If the employee is unable to complete the required year of service because of illness or disability not due to his/her own negligence, the employee will have an additional period of time following recovery from such illness or disability to complete the year or service required. 4.	Scholarship recipients shall be reimbursed at the beginning of each term of study at the institution at which they are duly enrolled.
E-42	VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROFICIENCY LEAVE: Upon the recommendation of the Superintendent, the Board of Education will consider the application of any full-time vocationally credentialed employee for leave of absence without payment of regular salary for one semester or one year for the purpose of increasing vocational proficiency. For the purpose of this provision, eligible employees include those credentialed employees teaching in Board-approved programs at the Vocational Technical Center or in Consumer Family Studies or Business Education programs in the regular high school. Such employee must have a minimum of 5 years of satisfactory and uninterrupted service in the Boulder Valley Schools. For each 1,000 hours of work done under this provision, .02 index points will be granted on the salary schedule, up to a maximum of .04 index points per year.
E-43	MILITARY LEAVE FOR ACTIVE SERVICE: Any full-time employee of the District who enlists in or is inducted into the armed forces will be granted a leave of absence without pay. He/She will retain the status of probation or teacher he/she had achieved prior to his/her entry into the service. The District will require written notice from the employee of his/her intention to resume employment six months before the date he/she wishes to reenter the employment of the District. E-43.1 The provisions of this leave and the accompanying benefits will automatically expire if the employee does not give the District written notice of his/her intention to resume employment within six months after his/her eligibility for separation from the service, or after the termination of the emergency, which ever is earlier. The District reserves the right to revoke or deny extension of leave to an employee remaining in military service beyond the compulsory period.
69
E-44 LEAVE RIGHTS: A member of Unit B on a leave of absence will accrue seniority rights as if on active service to the District. Except as provided in E-40.2 for Professional Leave, salary increments will not accrue for an employee on a leave of absence. Subject to the provisions of insurance policies, an employee on leave of absence without pay for more than thirty (30) days may purchase medical and dental insurance at the current group rates. When circumstances prohibit the employee from making such payment within thirty (30) days, the risk manager may extend the period for receipt of insurance premium payments. In the event the period for payment is extended, the employee shall pay the premiums retroactive to the beginning of the leave of absence. The employee will continue to receive insurance coverage during such period.
TUITION REIMBURSEMENT
E-45 During the term of this Agreement, an amount equivalent to four (4) times the employee base salary (e.g. in 2002-03 - $116,856) per school year will be allocated annually for the use of tuition reimbursement. Any Unit B employee with a regular contract who has completed one year of satisfactory service and who has been notified of reemployment for the succeeding year and who is not on leave of absence may apply for reimbursement of tuition incurred in study for credit at an approved institution (North Central or equivalent) of higher learning provided such course(s) is directly applicable to his/her teaching subject area or related subject area and/or is directly related to the school district goals. Coursework that does not meet the above criteria will not be reimbursed. Such reimbursement will be granted for a maximum of three semester hours (or equivalent) per college term and ten semester hours (or equivalent) during the summer term unless approval for more is obtained in advance form the appropriate level executive director. Tuition reimbursement shall be made for study at any Colorado state supported institution of higher education. For study at any other institution of higher education, tuition reimbursement shall not exceed the tuition rate for the corresponding term at the University of Colorado at Boulder.
E-45.1 In order to receive reimbursement, employees must submit the following documentation:
1.	Proper documentation of successful course completion from the college or university, and
2.	Proper documentation of payment of course(s) from the college or university, and
70
3.	Completion of appropriate form requesting tuition reimbursement.
All documentation must be received in the Human Resources Division prior to either October 15 or April 15 of each year, and within six (6) months after completion of the course(s). Requests for tuition reimbursement submitted after six (6) months from the completion date of the course(s) will not be considered.
Requests will be processed as of October 15 and April 15 of each year.
E-45.2 The following reimbursement procedures will apply:
1.	Requests submitted prior to October 15.
a. Sixty (60) percent of the approved request will be paid between October 15 and January 15. The remaining forty (40) percent of the approved request will be dealt with together with requests submitted by the April 15 deadline.
2.	Requests submitted after October 15 and prior to April 15.
a.	All approved requests under this section will be aggregated after the April 15 deadline.
b.	In the event the total of approved requests is within the dollar limitation, all approved requests will be paid in full.
c.	In the event the total of approved requests exceeds the dollar limitation, payments will be prorated.
d.	In the event proration results in amounts of less than $5.00, the sum of such prorations will be carried forward and added to the subsequent calendar year allocation.
E-45.3 Any individual employee who has already received $2000 under this policy is ineligible to receive more until approved requests of all other eligible employees have been made and in no case will an employee be granted more than $2000 in any one four-year period.
71
E-45.4 Unit B employees on leave of absence shall not be eligible for tuition reimbursement.
E-45.5 Request for special consideration may be submitted by employees for whom unusual circumstances have been created by the adoption of this policy.
PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT
E-46 Employees shall be provided opportunities to attend curriculum and instruction conferences as dictated by program development needs.
E-46.1 Responsibility for the administration of the program development conference request lies with the District administration.
E-46.2 The appropriate District curriculum committee(s), which shall include employees, will assist in the determination of program needs and in the selection of participants at such conferences. This committee(s) shall develop, with the assistance of the administration, the guidelines and procedures to be used in carrying out its responsibility.
CHANGE OF PAY STATUS
E-47 College or university credit earned after January 1, 1980, to be used for horizontal movement on the salary schedule shall be earned at an approved institution (North Central or equivalent) of higher learning and such course(s) must be applicable to the employee’s teaching or related educational fields.
E-47.1 It shall be the employee’s responsibility to initiate a request for horizontal increases in salary due to additional hours of training credit. Requests shall be made to the Human Resources Division on a change of pay status request form which can be obtained from the school office or the Human Resources Division.
Course grade slips shall be accepted as verification of the successful completion of course work and must accompany the request, provided official transcripts are submitted to the Human Resources Division no later than 60 days following the submission of the course grade slip.
72
E-47.2 Requests for salary increase for additional credit submitted to the Human Resources Division between June 1 and October 15 each year will be paid in the November paycheck retroactive to the beginning of the current work year. Requests submitted to the Human Resources division between October 16 and May 31 will be effective the first work day of the month following submission and reflected in that month’s paycheck.
E-47.3 Academic credit on the employee salary schedule shall be granted for successful completion of District programs or courses that have been identified as qualifying for credit by the District’s administration.
E-47.4 Hours of credit earned after an employee has earned a BA degree, but before an MA degree is earned, cannot be applied to the MA columns. Only hours earned after the employee has earned the MA degree can be used for horizontal movement beyond the BA+48 or M column.
E-48 VOLUNTARY REDUCTION: Employees may voluntarily reduce to less than a 1.0 FTE contract by receiving written approval from the employee’s principal/supervisor and giving written notice to the Human Resources Division by April 15. Such reduction may be approved for up to one (1) year. An extension of such reduction may be granted not to exceed two (2) years in length. If such reduction continues beyond two (2) years the employee forfeits his/her rights to a 1.0 FTE contract and remains at the reduced FTE.
*E-49 JOB SHARES
1.	Job sharing involves two employees (one non-probationary employee and one limited term job share partner) who voluntarily agree to share one full-time assignment in the District. Employees wishing to job share must find a partner in consultation with the building principal or designee and complete the appropriate forms by May 1 of the previous school year. Upon approval by the building principal, the job share shall be granted for one semester or one school year.
2.	Non-Probationary employees are eligible to job share. The non-probationary employee requesting the job share will be returned to their former position at the end of the job share. Employees wishing to job share beyond one year need to request a new job share for the following year.
*Identifies new or revised language
73
3.	Limited term, part-time, temporary, and substitute employees who hold a valid license are eligible to be a job share partner. Highly qualified requirements, if applicable, must also be complied with.
4.	The minimum FTE for the non-probationary employee shall be .5 FTE. The minimum FTE for the job share partner shall be .4 FTE.
5.	50/50 job share requests shall not be arbitrarily denied, up to a maximum of fifteen (15) 50/50 job shares in one year. Requests for 50/50 job shares beyond 15 in one year will be denied.
6.	The two employees will proportionately share the annual leave days accrued to their position with their job share partner.
7.	Job share partners who participate in a 50/50 job share are each entitled to district health insurance coverage. The cost of this insurance coverage will be taken from the one-time money designated by the district. There will be a maximum of 15 50/50 job share partners in one year.
8.	Job Share employees and partners who have been approved for job shares in 2004-05 will be notified of these changes and offered the opportunity to modify their job share request.
9.	This clause is in effect from July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2006.
SECTION F: PRIVILEGES & FACILITIES
F-1 ASSOCIATION PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT: The Board of Education agrees, subject to the conditions below, that the president and the vice president of the Association, while they are officially representing the Unit as the bargaining agent during the year, should be relieved of their duties without loss of salary, seniority, or fringe benefits as follows:
F-1.1 Association President: A replacement shall be hired and the Association shall compensate the District for the salary and PERA cost of the replacement, to be determined by computing the average salary of newly hired Unit B employees that year who were not on contract for the prior academic year. The Association president shall work with the temporary replacement to the extent that the educational program in his/her classes is not seriously disrupted. The president shall also submit to the Deputy Superintendent, upon his/her request, a report
74
covering his/her activities relative to the improvement of the District instructional program and/or his/her contributions toward the solution of employee personnel problems.
F-1.2 Association Vice President: The vice president shall be released half-time (.5 FTE) while officially representing the Unit. A replacement shall be hired and the Association shall compensate the District for the salary and benefit costs of the replacement, to be determined by computing the average salary of newly hired Unit B employees that year who were not on contract for the prior academic year.
The Association vice president shall work with the temporary replacement to the extent that the educational program in his/her classes is not seriously disrupted. The vice president shall also submit to the Deputy Superintendent, upon his/her request, a report covering his/her activities relative to the improvement of the District instructional program and/or his/her contributions toward the solution of employee personnel problems.
F-1.3 The employee(s) employed to replace the Association president and/or vice president shall be employed on a temporary basis. The employee(s) serving as Association president and/or vice president shall have the privilege of returning to his/her former assignment(s) unless circumstances would prohibit it, or if accepting a different assignment.
F-2 USE OF FACILITIES: The Association shall be granted use of school building facilities for holding local Association building meetings, Association representative council meetings, general membership meetings and committee meetings for conducting official Association business provided reasonable notice is given to the Superintendent or his designated representative, and further, provided such meeting does not interfere with or disrupt the normal operation or use of the facility in question. If a charge shall be made of all other groups for such use, the Association shall be charged the lowest rate charged any other group, or for extra janitor’s salary, whichever is lower.
F-2.1 The Association shall have the exclusive use of a bulletin board in each faculty lounge. If the Association building representative and the principal agree that this bulletin board is inadequate the principal will provide additional space on the office bulletin board. The building representative shall be responsible for the BVEA material appearing on bulletin boards.
75
F-2.2 The Association shall have the right to purchase supplies and other materials from the District at the price paid by the District which are normally stocked in the District Warehouse. Such materials and supplies are to be used solely for Association purposes.
F-3 BOARD MEETING INFORMATION: The Board agrees to make available to the Association the complete “information packet” prepared for each Board meeting. This shall be prepared at the same time as it is for Board members. If there are last minute additions to the packet, the Association shall be informed of such additions and they shall also be available.
F-4 PROFESSIONAL LEAVE FOR ASSOCIATION BUSINESS: The Board shall grant to the Association 100 days paid leave for its representatives to attend workshops, conferences, and other activities of the Association and its state and national affiliates (BVEA days). Requests shall be processed through the Association. Additional leave days may be granted to the Association by the Superintendent provided the expense of the substitute(s) shall be paid by the Association.
F-4.1 The amount of leave is to be allocated to individual employees at the discretion of the Association, except that if in the judgment of the principal repeated absences of an individual employee are harmful to the education of the students affected, the principal may recommend in writing to the BVEA President and the Deputy Superintendent that these days be limited for that employee.
F-4.2 The Board recognizes that members of Unit B should be encouraged to seek election or appointment to CEA and NEA office or offices of their affiliates. Leave taken to serve in such official capacity shall not be charged to the number of leave days referred to in F-4.1. Requests for such leave must be submitted before seeking the office and approval received from the building principal and Deputy Superintendent. If approved, such time released will be with pay provided compensation is not otherwise provided and shall not exceed ten (10) days per academic year.
F-5 PAYROLL DEDUCTION: The District agrees to deduct from each employee’s salary an amount to cover Association dues and PACE contributions which each employee voluntarily authorizes to be deducted. The District will transmit the amount so deducted and so authorized to the Treasurer of the Association. The Association will
76
provide the District with a copy of each form authorizing such deductions.
F-5.1 LUMP SUM OR MONTHLY INSTALLMENTS: Individual employees may elect to have the annual Association dues deducted in a lump sum or in twelve (12) equal monthly installments by indicating same on the form provided for that purpose and transmitting same to the District.
F-5.2 HOLD HARMLESS: The Association agrees to save the Board and the District harmless from any suit, action, complaint, or the like, growing out of these deductions, and assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the funds so deducted once they have been turned over to the Treasurer of the Association. The Association agrees that, in the event of any litigation against the District, its agents or employees, arising out of this provision, it will co-defend, indemnify and hold harmless the District, its agents or employees, from any monetary award or any costs arising out of such litigation, including but not limited to attorneys’ fees and costs.
F-5.3 ASSOCIATION NOTIFICATION: The Association shall notify the District Payroll Office in writing, of the current rate of membership dues to be applied with respect to any dues deductions set forth in this Article. Any such notification must be submitted by the 10th day of the month that the new rates are effective, or such other date as mutually agreed upon.
F-6 VISITING SCHOOLS: Association members and others acting in their behalf shall be permitted to visit schools for carrying out Association business as needed. Such visitations shall not interfere with the educational program or administrative affairs of the school visited. All visitors shall comply with District security requirements and the Colorado Revised Statutes covering public buildings.
F-7 BUILDING MEETINGS: The Association faculty representative(s) for each school shall have the right to schedule Association meetings before or after school or during lunch periods. The representative shall obtain a building calendar from his/her principal or designated representative. The meetings shall not conflict with the building calendar or the duty schedules of the employees in the building.
F-8 DISTRICT INFORMATION: The Board agrees to make available to the Association in response to requests information including but not limited to: annual financial reports and audits, register of employees, tentative
77
budgetary requirements and allocations, agenda and minutes of all Board meetings, pupil enrollment figures, and names and addresses of all employees.
F-9 EMPLOYEE FILES: Each member of Unit B shall have the right to review the contents of his/her personnel file, whether in the central office or the school building, excepting however, any confidential references given at the time of employment. At the employee’s written request, a representative of BVEA may accompany the employee in such review.
F-9.1 No material or complaint of a derogatory nature will be placed in the file unless such material or complaint shall be signed by the person(s) making such derogatory allegations or by the appropriate administrator. Anonymous complaints will not become a part of an employee’s personnel file or record.
F-9.2 Such records of complaints and any statements relating to an employee’s conduct, service, character or personality shall not be placed in either an employee’s building personnel file or in the District Personnel File without so informing the employee and giving him/her an opportunity to attach a reply or comments to the complaint or statement(s).
F-10 EMPLOYEES’ FACILITIES: Each school will have the following facilities:
a.	Storage space and work space for each employee. The Board shall not be held to be the insurer of the employees’ personal belongings stored in such space.
b.	Well-lighted, well-ventilated, clean employee restrooms.
c.	There shall be a furnished lounge and an equipped workroom provided for employees in each school. Plans to provide such space where it is needed shall be initiated. Whenever physical facilities permit, as determined by the school planner, and unless the faculty by majority vote opposes necessary alterations, faculty workrooms and lounges shall be separate.
d.	The District shall supply Employee Directories to all school building offices for staff use and to employees who request one from the principal in writing by September 30. Such directories shall contain the phone numbers and addresses of all District schools; and a list of all District employees by school ordered by alphabet with assignment; and an alphabetical listing of all District personnel with
78
assignment, address, spouse’s name (where appropriate), and telephone number (where not restricted).
e.	The District shall supply all members of Unit B with individual copies of the Negotiated Agreement no later than 20 teaching days after final ratification. Extra copies desired by the Association shall be provided at the Association’s expense.
f.	The District shall provide an activity ticket free of charge to each employee for admission of two (2) persons to events that occur in the cluster schools in which he/she teaches. The employee may purchase an additional activity ticket for admission of two (2) persons to non-cluster events, at a cost of eight dollars ($8.00) per ticket.
g.	Every reasonable effort will be made to provide parking space for each employee.
h.	A telephone for employee use for school business and/or necessary private business shall be provided in all buildings. Such telephones are not to be used for long distance calls unless arrangements are made through the building principal. It is recognized that physical limitations of existing buildings may limit the privacy of such facilities.
*F-11 SALARY LETTER: The District shall supply the information below to Unit B employees no later than November 1st of each year. If a computer malfunction occurs, this date may be waived, but such letter shall be in the hands of employees prior to the close of the school year.
New Salary
Total Years in the District
Degrees and Hours for which Compensated Date License has to be Renewed Type of License Held
F-11.1 Accumulated annual leave will be reported on the employee’s payroll check.
F-12 LEAVE ACCOUNTING: When regular reports are developed on absences requiring substitute employees they shall be made available to the Association. Such reports shall include:
Annual Leave
Professional Leave (BVEA days)
District In-Service
Administration-Initiated Meetings
*Identifies new or revised language
79
F-13 CHILDREN OF EMPLOYEES: Children of employees will have a preference to attend the school in which the employee works, in accordance with District open enrollment policies and procedures.
SECTION G:	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
G-1 DEFINITIONS: A “grievance” shall mean a complaint by a member or group of members of Unit B that there has been a violation, a misinterpretation, or inequitable application of any of the provisions of this Agreement, or of any policy concerning terms and conditions of employment. The term “grievance” and the procedure relative thereto shall not be deemed applicable in the case of the failure or refusal of the Board to renew the contract of a probationary employee or in case of dismissal procedures or other matters governed solely by the Teacher Employment, Compensation and Dismissal Act of 1990 as it now exists or may hereafter be amended.
G-1.1 The written grievance shall refer specifically to the provision(s) of this Agreement or policy as referred to in G-1, which it is alleged has been violated, misinterpreted or unreasonable or inequitably applied and shall specify the remedial action requested. A grievance which does not contain this information may be summarily denied.
G-1.2 A “grievant” is the employee or employees in Unit B making the claim.
G-1.3 A “party in interest” is an employee who might be required to take action or against whom action might be taken in order to resolve a grievance.
G-1.4 “Day” or “days” where used in this Grievance Procedure shall mean, unless otherwise indicated, working days for members of Unit B.
G-1.5 “LEVEL” as used in this Grievance Procedure shall mean the separate and distinct stages to be followed in sequential order in the processing of grievances.
G-1.6 “Association” where used in this Grievance Procedure shall mean the recognized negotiating organization for Unit B.
G-2 PURPOSE: The purpose of this procedure is to secure, at the lowest possible administrative level, equitable solution to the problems which may, from time to time, arise. Both parties to this Agreement agree that these proceedings will be kept as informal and confidential as may be
80
appropriate at any level of the procedure.
G-3 PROCEDURE: Grievances should be processed as rapidly as possible. The number of days indicated at each level shall be considered as a maximum and a good faith effort shall be made to expedite the process. The time limits may be extended by mutual agreement. No grievance shall be recognized by the Association or the Board of Education unless it shall have been filed in writing at LEVEL ONE within fifteen (15) days after the aggrieved knew, or should have known, of the act or condition on which the grievance is based, and if not so presented, the grievance will be considered waived. If a grievance is filed which might not be finally resolved at LEVEL FOUR under the time limits set forth herein prior to the end of the school year, the time limits set forth herein will be reduced so that the grievance procedure will be concluded prior to the end of the school year, or as soon thereafter as is practicable.
G-3.1 If, in the judgment of the Association, a grievance affects a group of Unit B members and two or more principals or no principal, the Association may submit such a grievance in writing to the appropriate level executive director or assistant superintendent and the processing of the grievance shall begin at LEVEL TWO.
G-3.2 No grievance may be filed regarding any matter for which the method of review is prescribed by law or in which the Board of Education is without authority to act.
G-3.3 Neither the Board of Education nor any member of the administration will take reprisals of any nature against any grievant, party in interest, Association representative, or any other participant in the Grievance Procedure because of participation in the Grievance Procedure.
G-3.4 During the processing of a grievance through the various levels of the procedure, timely filing must be made or the grievance will be considered waived.
G-3.5 If a member of Unit B elects to pursue any legal or statutory remedy for a grievance, such election will bar any further or subsequent proceedings for relief in said grievance under the provisions of this Grievance Procedure.
G-3.6 All written or printed matter dealing with any grievance will be filed separately from any other records maintained by the District and will not become a part of the personnel file of any grievant.
81
G-3.7 The Board of Education will make available to any aggrieved person and/or representative(s) all pertinent information not privileged under law in its possession and control and which is relevant to the issues raised by the grievance.
G-3.8 The rights and professional reputation of all parties in interest are to be protected by all means possible and the interruption of classroom activities and the involvement of students are to be avoided wherever possible in all phases of the Grievance Procedure.
G-3.9 The filing or pendency of any grievance shall in no way operate to interfere with the right of the Board of Education and/or the administration to continue the contested action.
G-3.10 When it is necessary for employees of the District to attend a meeting or hearing called to resolve a grievance, such employees shall be provided released time without loss of pay for such time as their attendance is required at such meeting or hearing subject to the following limitations:
Level One The grievant, and if requested, one Association representative and/or not more than one other employee.
Level Two The grievant, the Association representative and not more than two other employees.
Level Three The grievant, the Association representative and not more than two other employees.
Level Four The grievant, the Association representative and such number(s) of other witnesses as may be mutually agreed to by both parties.
Notification to such employees’ immediate supervisor will be made by the appropriate level administration. Necessary arrangements will be made to avoid interruption of the regular school duties of such employee(s).
G-4 INFORMAL CONFERENCE: Prior to the filing of a grievance at LEVEL ONE the employee shall discuss the matter with his/her immediate supervisor in an effort to resolve the issue(s) informally. The aggrieved employee (1) may request that the Association’s representative or some other person be in attendance, or (2) may request that the Association’s
82
representative or some other person act in the employee’s behalf. If the informal conference cannot be held before the deadline for filing at LEVEL ONE, the deadline shall be extended to a mutually agreed upon date.
G-5 LEVEL ONE: If not resolved informally, the grievant may file the grievance in writing with the immediate supervisor. The written grievance will state the nature of the grievance, the provision(s) of the agreement or any policy concerning terms and conditions of employment allegedly violated, and the relief requested. The immediate supervisor will provide a written answer and the reason(s) therefore to the grievance within five (5) days and will provide a copy of that decision to the Association, the grievant, the Executive Director of Human Resources, and the appropriate District administrator.
G-6 LEVEL TWO: If the grievance has not been resolved at LEVEL ONE, it may be appealed in writing by the Association to the appropriate level Executive Director or assistant superintendent within five (5) days after receipt of the written decision from LEVEL ONE.
G-6.1 The Executive Director or assistant superintendent and/or representative(s) will meet with the aggrieved employee and/or representative(s) within five (5) days of the receipt of the written grievance from the Association in an effort to resolve the grievance.
G-6.2 Within five (5) days after hearing the grievance, the Executive Director or assistant superintendent will render a written decision including the reason(s) therefore and either present it or sent it by U.S. mail to the Grievant and to all parties in interest officially present at the hearing, as well as to the President of the Association.
G-7 LEVEL THREE: If the grievance has not been resolved at LEVEL TWO, or if no decision has been rendered in writing within five (5) days after the hearing, and the Association deems to do so, the grievance may be appealed to the Superintendent within five (5) days after receipt of the written decision or the five (5) day period in which no decision was rendered.
G-7.1 The Superintendent and/or representative(s) will meet with the grievant and/or representative(s) within ten (10) days after receipt of the written grievance in an effort to resolve the grievance.
G-7.2 Within ten (10) days after hearing the grievance, the
83
Superintendent or his/her representative will render a written decision including the reason(s) therefore and either present it or send it by U.S. mail to the Grievant and to all parties in interest officially present at the hearing, as well as to the President of the Association.
G-8 LEVEL FOUR: If the grievance has not been resolved at LEVEL THREE, or if no decision has been rendered in writing within ten (10) days after the Superintendent or his/her representative heard the grievance, and the Association deems to do so, the Association may demand arbitration. Such demand must be made within ten (10) days after receipt of the Superintendent’s or his/her representative’s response or the ten (10) day period of no response. Within ten (10) days of the demand for arbitration, the Board and/or representative(s) and the Association and/or representative(s) will select an arbitrator. In the event the parties are unable to agree on an arbitrator, selection shall be made in the manner provided by the current Negotiations Procedure for selecting a mediator.
G-8.1 The arbitrator will have the authority to hold hearings and make procedural rules. All hearings held by the arbitrator shall be in closed sessions and no news release shall be made concerning progress of the hearings.
G-8.2 The arbitrator will submit a written report not more than fifteen (15) days after the last hearing date or if hearings have been waived, not more than fifteen (15) days after receipt of briefs filed in the case. Copies of the report will be sent to the Association, the Board of Education and the Grievant and will set forth findings of fact, reasoning, conclusions and recommendations on the issue(s) submitted. The arbitrator shall not amend, take away, add to, or change any of the provisions of this Agreement and may consider only the issue(s) submitted in writing by the Board and the Association. The arbitrator’s decision(s) shall be based solely on the interpretation of the terms of this Agreement and shall be advisory only and binding neither on the Association nor the Board of Education.
G-8.3 Within ten (10) days of the receipt of the arbitrator’s report, a meeting between Association and Board representatives will be held to discuss the report. No public release may be made until after such meeting. Each party will advise the other of its position on the arbitrator’s decision and the reasons therefore.
G-8.4 The Board shall take official action on the report of the
84
arbitrator not later than thirty (30) days after receipt of the arbitrator’s recommendations.
G-8.5 The costs for the services of the arbitrator, including per diem
expenses, necessary travel and subsistence expenses, shall be shared equally by the Board and the Association.
G-8.6 Either party may request that an official stenographic record of
the testimony at the hearings be made. The party requesting such record shall pay the costs thereof except that if the other party shall request a copy of any transcript, it shall share the entire cost of making the stenographic record.
SECTION H:	ADVISORY COUNCIL
H-1
TEACHERS’ ADVISORY COUNCIL: The Teachers’ Advisory Council shall continue for the purpose of improving communications and providing an opportunity for the discussion of items of concern to employees and to the administration.
H-1.1 The function of the Council is advisory. As a result of agenda
items discussed, the Council shall make recommendations to the Superintendent of Schools, deputy superintendent, or appropriate executive director for their consideration.
H-1.2 The Council shall be composed of 11 members of Unit B and
4 administrators; 4 elementary classroom teachers, 4 secondary classroom teachers, and 3 specialists, of which one must be a Special Education Specialist; 1 elementary principal, 1 secondary principal, 1 central office administrator, and the Superintendent of Schools or his/her designee. The Association vice-president shall serve as an ex-officio member. Such membership to be effective September 1, 1977.
H-1.3 Employee members of the Council shall be selected by the
organization representing Unit B for a two (2) year term. The term of Unit B members shall be staggered so that approximately 50% of the members carry over from one year to the next.
H-1.4 The Chairperson of the Teachers’ Advisory Council shall be
elected by the Council from the employee membership. The operating rules shall be established by the Council.
H-1.5 Meetings shall be held once monthly September through May
85
according to the schedule set by the current members of the Council and the Superintendent. Meeting dates may be changed or additional meetings scheduled when necessity requires, by mutual agreement.
H-1.6 Items for the agenda are to be written and mailed to the Council chairperson and the Superintendent for inclusion on the agenda. Minutes will be kept and distributed appropriately. The Council shall consider only those items that have not been or cannot be resolved through proper administrative channels. Items shall not be included on the agenda if they are in the process of negotiations or in any step of the grievance procedure. The fact that any item is on the agenda or has been considered by the Council does not mean that it cannot also be proposed for the negotiations package by either the Board or the negotiating unit. Items may be added to the agenda at any meeting by majority vote of the Council.
H-1.7 The administration shall respond to the Council on the status of any recommendation made by the Council within twenty (20) days or at the next regularly scheduled Council meeting, whichever is first.
H-1.8 Agenda items may be submitted by an employee or group of employees providing the item or items meet the qualifications for the agenda as established above.
H-1.9 Inquiries concerning duplication of record lists or the gathering of data where administrative guidance might be needed should be submitted to the appropriate department head in writing, with a copy to the Superintendent. The department head shall within five (5) days respond to the inquiry in writing, either supplying the information or indicating what would be involved in obtaining the information and suggesting a time and procedure.
SECTION I:	PROFESSIONAL RELATIONSHIPS
I-1 FACULTY AFFAIRS COMMITTEE: If a building faculty establishes a Faculty Affairs Committee, the principal shall attend meetings when requested by the committee (given adequate notice) and respond to questions and recommendations posed by the committee.
I-2 BUILDING AND REMODELING PLAN: Employees affected by new facilities shall be represented on advisory planning committees.
86
Employees may recommend to the appropriate executive director a committee of representatives from among their number to serve on these committees. The deputy superintendent will select at least two thirds of the members for each such committee from the list submitted. The employees serving on such committees shall be given released time as determined by the deputy superintendent to perform duties related to the committee’s work. Final plans and specifications shall be available to the committee for review and recommendations. Before final approval by the Board of Education, the deputy superintendent shall meet with the committees to consider their questions and recommendations concerning the final plans, and shall inform the Board of them. It is understood that recommendations from such committees are advisory only.
I-3 SCHOOL VISITATION: Principals and counselors shall confer with other employees before scheduling parent conferences, except in cases of emergency.
I-3.1 An employee at his/her discretion may bar a visitor from his/her classroom until a conference is held with the principal. This provision is not intended to discourage parents of children in a classroom from visiting the classroom.
I-4 OTHER MATTERS: Employee concerns not covered in Section G-1 should be discussed with the principal or appropriate supervisor and then may be filed with the Association, and the Association shall have the right to meet with the appropriate principal or supervisor in an effort to resolve the issue.
SECTION J:	FUTURE CONFERENCE AND TERM
*J-1 This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from its execution to and including June 30, 2006. Further, this Agreement shall automatically continue in full force and effect annually from year to year unless either of the parties hereto shall terminate the same in accordance with the procedures outlined in J-2.
J-1.1 If either party shall desire to change any of the provisions of this Agreement, it shall give written notice as outlined in B-3.
J-1.2 If the parties have not reached an agreement on or before the end of the Contract or reopening term, all provisions of this Agreement shall remain in effect unless specifically terminated in accordance with the following procedure.
*Identifies new or revised language
87
J-2 TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT: Ten (10) or less working days prior to the termination date of this Agreement on the first anniversary date or at any time thereafter, if no Agreement on the questions at issue has been reached, either party may give written notice to the other party terminating the Agreement in not less than ten (10) days after receipt of notification by registered mail. Such notice shall state the date and hour of such termination. All provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until the specified time has elapsed. During this period, attempts to reach an Agreement shall be continued.
J-2.1 If the parties have failed to resolve their differences by the specified date, all obligations under this Agreement are automatically cancelled.
88
ACCEPTED AND APPROVED
ACCEPTED AND APPROVED
Boulder Valley Education Association, representing the employees of Boulder
Valley School District Re2
by:_______________________________
President
BOULDER VALLEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
DATE
Board of Education of the Boulder Valley Schools
by:________________________________
President
BOARD OF EDUCATION BOULDER VALLEY SCHOOL
DISTRICT NO. Re-2
DATE
89
BVSD 110/110 Plan
The District agrees to continue the 110/110 program under PERA guidelines for eligible employees who desire post-retirement employment and receive the written approval of their supervisor. This contract language is subject to change as PERA guidelines change. A partial list of guidelines follows:
Employment under this plan is currently limited to one hundred ten days in any calendar year. Employment under this Agreement may be terminated at any time, with or without cause, either by the EMPLOYEE or the SCHOOL DISTRICT.
The EMPLOYEE shall not be entitled to placement on the SCHOOL DISTRICT’S regular salary schedule. However, the salary will be the same as the base salary that the EMPLOYEE would have received had the EMPLOYEE not retired.
The EMPLOYEE shall not be entitled to any benefits that are provided to regular employees under any SCHOOL DISTRICT policy, administrative regulation or procedure, handbook or collective bargaining agreement, including, but not limited to, vacation, personal leave, sick leave, annual leave, or professional leave. The EMPLOYEE may participate in the SCHOOL DISTRICT’S medical and dental insurance plans at their own expense; the SCHOOL DISTRICT will not pay the EMPLOYEE’S or the EMPLOYEE’S dependent’s premiums. The EMPLOYEE will not be paid for any days he or she is absent from work, regardless of the cause of such absence, and his/her pay will be reduced based upon the per diem rate of pay.
The EMPLOYEE agrees to comply with all of the applicable laws, statutes, rules, and regulations of the United States of America and the State of Colorado as well as the administrative regulations, policies, and procedures of the SCHOOL DISTRICT and the State Board of Education; provided, however, that nothing set forth in the above-mentioned laws, rules, regulations, policies, and procedures shall alter the nature of the EMPLOYEE’S employment herein contained. Further, the EMPLOYEE will have in full force and effect, upon the commencement date and at all times during the term, all state licenses as may be required for the position for which EMPLOYEE is retained and will meet all of the professional standards required by the SCHOOL DISTRICT and Colorado law.
The EMPLOYEE understands and agrees that due to the temporary and limited nature of his or her post-retirement employment under this Agreement:
The EMPLOYEE’S employment shall not be subject to any collective bargaining agreement between any recognized employee organization or association and the SCHOOL DISTRICT, and that the EMPLOYEE will not be a member of any bargaining unit.
90
The EMPLOYEE will be entitled to the benefit of any SCHOOL DISTRICT policies or administrative regulations and procedures relating to evaluation, compensation, performance pay, benefits, grievances, due process, leave, or seniority.
The EMPLOYEE will not be entitled to rights or benefits as provided under the Colorado Teacher Employment, Compensation, and Dismissal Act including but not limited to rights to continued employment, notice of contract nonrenewal, grounds for dismissal, procedures for dismissal, transfer or compensation.
The EMPLOYEE understands and agrees that his or her retirement from the SCHOOL DISTRICT constitutes a break in service with the SCHOOL DISTRICT and that reemployment under this contract does not constitute continuous service sufficient to retain nonprobationary status under the Colorado Teacher Employment, Compensation, and Dismissal Act.
*MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
SALARY SCHEDULE TASK FORCE
The parties agree to form a Salary Schedule Task Force separate from formal negotiations during the 2004-05 school year that will continue to work on restructuring the salary schedule. The goal of the Salary Schedule Task Force will be to develop a competitive salary schedule that is less expensive to maintain than the 2003-04 salary schedule. The Salary Schedule Task Force will begin work in September 2004 with a completion target date of March 1, 2005 to provide preliminary recommendations to the BVSD BOE and the BVEA Executive Board. Bi-monthly reports updating Task Force progress will be made to BVSD and BVEA beginning in October. Final recommendations will be made to each respective board by May 1, 2005. Interim negotiations, following procedures outlined in Article B-8 will begin May 11, 2005. While there will be some flexibility in the timeline, it is understood that implementation of a new schedule, possibly over two years will begin September 1, 2005. BVEA and BVSD respectively will appoint co-chairs who did not serve on the previous Salary Schedule Task Force, one by each entity and seven total members each to the Salary Schedule Task Force. Only three members from BVEA and BVSD will be appointed who served on the previous Salary Schedule Task Force in 2003-04.
Twenty-five thousand dollars in one-time monies will be made available in school years 2004-05 and 2005-06 to the task force for use to hire outside expertise and cover any incidental expenses as determined by the task force.___ _______________________________________
George F. Garcia, Ed.D.,
Mike Altenbern, President	Superintendent
Boulder Valley Education
Association	Boulder Valley Public Schools
Date
Date
*Identifies new or revised language
91
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Shared Decision Making
The Board of Education and the Boulder Valley Education Association agree that giving teachers increased responsibility for participating in the decision-making process and that the collegial exchange of ideas can result in a more effective professional practice and enhance the learning environment.
In support of shared decision making, each school will develop procedures that legitimately engage administrators, teachers, support staff, parents, and students, where appropriate, in the following areas: proposing, analyzing data, planning, making and implementing decisions, and evaluating solutions in the best interest of the individual school. This procedure is an evolutionary process assuming greater definition through review and modification. These procedures shall give teachers the opportunity to participate in decisions that affect them.
Each school is encouraged to develop a decision-making process that identifies, but is not limited to the following:
1.	How decisions will be made in that school or department;
2.	A definition of roles and responsibilities for teachers, administrators, patrons, nonteaching staff and students;
3.	Provision for evaluating the decision-making process to insure that constituents are appropriately involved at each stage of the process;
4.	A means for resolving differences resulting from active involvement.
If, in the evolution of a process for shared decision making at a particular building, staff members believe that implementation is not proceeding appropriately, their concerns should be discussed with the building principal to achieve “greater definition through review and modification.” If this step, “a means for resolving differences,” does not produce a satisfactory resolution, BVEA may request a meeting with the Superintendent to discuss the concerns. The Superintendent or Deputy Superintendent will then, if necessary, meet with the administrative staff and/or faculty to facilitate.
The Board of Education and the Boulder Valley Education Association further agree to form a committee composed of three members appointed by the Superintendent and three members appointed by the Association President. This committee may be convened upon request of either the Superintendent or the Association President.
If a decision is made that this is in violation of a state law or regulation, Board policy or action, or the collective bargaining agreement, it shall be the duty of the committee to provide assistance to the school or program department in an effort to find a manner of implementing the intention(s) of the school or program department in such fashion so as to avoid the violation. If however, these efforts are unsuccessful, the Central Administration shall refuse to allow the implementation of the decision, on the basis that to have acted otherwise would have resulted in a violation as described. This is the sole basis upon which the Central
92
Letter of Understanding, Shared Decision Making Page 2
Administration may act to prohibit the implementation of a decision. If a dispute exists concerning whether a violation would have resulted from the implementation of a decision, said dispute shall be subject to the grievance procedure of the contract.
The parties agree that this document is an expression of intent to foster the concept of shared decision making in Boulder Valley Schools. It is intended to provide a framework in which schools may actively engage in the exploration of creative and innovative approaches to local school governance.
Signature on file
Steve Armitage
President, Boulder Valley Education
Association
Signature on file
Joseph L. Winslow
President, Board of Education
Boulder Valley Public Schools
October 9, 1995 Date
October 12, 1995 Date
*corrected version of Memorandum of Agreement signed and dated February 23, 1995.
93
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
This memorandum of Understanding defines the guidelines for the assignment of elementary art, music and physical education specialists. The Memorandum is in effect from July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2003.
Guidelines for Assignment of Elementary Art Specialists
•	An elementary Art class section equals fifty (50) minutes of instruction per week for kindergarten through 5th grades.
•	Twenty-six (26) class sections of fifty (50) minutes, a total of one thousand three hundred (1300) minutes per week will be considered a full-time assignment or 1.0 FTE. An additional one hundred (100) minutes can be scheduled into the instructional week to allow for transitions and setup between grade levels.
•	The FTE allocation for part-time teacher contracts is based on the full-time load of twenty-six (26) class sections. Each class section is 3.85% (.0385) of a fulltime equivalency teacher. For example, eleven (11) class sections equates to a .42 FTE assignment.
Guidelines for the Assignment of Elementary Physical Education and Music Specialists
•	An elementary Music and P.E. class section equals ninety (90) minutes of instruction per week for first through fifth grades and forty-five (45) minutes of instruction per week for kindergarten. An additional one hundred (100) minutes can be scheduled into the instructional week to allow for transactions and setup between grade levels.
•	Fourteen and one-half (14.5) class sections of ninety (90) minutes or a total of one thousand three hundred and five (1305) minutes per week will be considered a full-time assignment of 1.0 FTE. Each kindergarten section counts as .5 of a section. An additional one hundred (100) minutes can be scheduled into the instructional week to allow for transactions and setup between grade levels.
•	The FTE allocation for part-time teacher contracts is based on the full-time load of fourteen and one-half (14.5) class sections. Each class section is 6.9% (.069) of a full-time equivalency teacher. For example, seven (7) class sections equates to a .48 FTE assignment.
Multiple School Assignments/Travel Time
•	When elementary Art, Music and P.E. specialists are required to travel during an instructional day from one school to another, they will be allocated travel
94
time up to one P.E. or Music section of two Art sections depending on the amount of travel required. If travel time is insufficient, they may request additional time from the Human Resources Department.
Mike Altenbern, President
Boulder Valley Education Association
George F. Garcia,Ed.D.,Superintendent
Boulder Valley Public Schools
Date
Date
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
The Boulder Valley Education Association and the Boulder Valley Public Schools mutually agree to the following regarding the Vocational-Technical Salary Schedule (Section E-17 of the 1996-98 BVEA negotiated Agreement):
1.	Employees on the Vocational-Technical Salary Schedule will continue on the Schedule until they resign, retire or are assigned to another position in the school district. The individuals affected by this Memorandum of Agreement are noted in the Attachment A.
2.	Section E-18, pages 50-51 of the 1996-98 BVEA negotiated Agreement will continue to be applicable to employees who are currently on the Vocational-Technical Salary Schedule until they resign, retire or are assigned to another position in the school district.
3.	Effective with the 1998-99 contract year, no new employees will be placed on the Vocational-Technical Salary Schedule. Such employees will be placed on one of the other salary schedules in the Negotiated Agreement. Section E-18.3, pages 50-51 of the 1996-98 BVEA negotiated Agreement will not be applicable to employees hired effective with the 198-99 contract year.
4.	It is understood that when hiring an employee at TEC, the employee’s related work experience (one year = 2000 hours) will be granted in a manner similar to teaching experience provided in Section E-12.1 of the 1996-98 negotiated Agreement.
Signature on file
Kathy Schoemaker, President
Boulder Valley Education Association
June 17, 1998
Date
Signature on file
Thomas G. Siegel, Superintendent
Boulder Valley Public Schools
June 17, 1998
Date
95
MEMO OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	The parties agree that the district and all of its employees will take no reprisals of any kind against those who have participated in concerted activities such as taking annual leave during May 17-25, 2004 and that those who did not participate will not be given any special treatment or consideration.
2.	No comment(s) about an employee’s participation or lack of participation will be included in any evaluation or personnel records.
3.	No 110 participant’s contract will be cancelled or otherwise altered as a result of their participation or lack thereof.
Mike Altenbern, President
Boulder Valley Education Association
George F. Garcia,Ed.D.,Superintendent
Boulder Valley Public Schools
Date
Date
96