Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Phoenix Union High School District No. 210 and Classified Employees Association (CEA), (2004)
K#: 830645
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Classified Employees Association
Handbook
Revised for 2004-2005
Phoenix Union High School District No. 210
Introduction
This handbook is designed as a resource book for employees in which an employee can find answers to the more routine questions that may come up in day-to-day operations.
This handbook is also designed to provide every employee with a copy of the current employment conditions and policies approved by the Governing Board after employee and administrative representatives met and conferred on them.
Obviously, no handbook can contain the answers to all questions. It is hoped that this handbook contains enough to be of help.
Your Supervisor, the Principal, the campus administrative staff, the Superintendent and other members of the central office staff are available to you and are quite willing to provide assistance.
The staff in the Employee Relations Office is, of course, always willing to assist you in whatever way possible.
Preamble
It is understood that the attainment of District goals and objectives requires mutual understanding and cooperation among the Governing Board, the administration, and all other employees. Accordingly, the Board, on the recommendation of the Superintendent, will designate certain administrative personnel to meet with employee representatives of the various classified personnel groups, chosen by the membership in those groups, and confer on matters to be included in the Classified Employees Association Handbook. These matters shall pertain to salary and wage schedules, fringe benefits, and appropriate conditions.
7/00
Glossary of Terms
ASSIGNMENT:	Assignment shall be defined as the work area, territory, work station, work shift, location, department, or job title of an employee. Section 25-D
ACTING STATUS:	Acting status is applicable only to permanent employees who are replacing on an interim basis an employee in an existing staff allocated position at a higher classification which is vacant due to illness of incumbent, leave of absence, or due to resignation or termination of employee who held the position. Section 28-A
BARGAINING REPRESENTATIVE:	Phoenix Union High School District acknowledges that the Classified Employees Association (CEA) is the bargaining representative for all classified employees. Section 1-A
CLASSIFIED ASSISTANCE
TEAM:	The employee may choose (optional) to use the team which may consist of one or both of the following members chosen by the employee: CEA President and/or his/her designee; one (1) peer that has held the employee’s position at one time during employment with the District and who is not on a remediation plan. Section 19-2, b
EMPLOYEE:	Any use of the term “employee” in this handbook shall include all members of the classified personnel.
FULLTIME EMPLOYEE:	Any employee who works 20 hours or more per week regardless of assignment or split assignment. Section 16 & 23
INAPPROPRIATE CONDUCT WITH A STUDENT:	Inappropriate conduct with a student as referenced in the Voluntaiy Transfer Policy refers to conduct of a sexual nature involving students. Section 25-B-5
INVOLUNTARY TRANSFER
“SIR”:	Involuntary transfers in accord with Governing Board Policy.
LEAVE DAYS:	Section 25-3 Formerly Sick Leave Days and Personal Business Days - Leave days may be used for personal illness or injuiy, family illness, paretnal obligation, family death or personal business. Section 18-A-l
PART-TIME PERSONNEL:	Employees hired to work less than twenty (20) hours per week. Section 3-E
PERMANENT STATUS:	Employees who have not been advised prior to or on the 90th workday that s/he is not being retained will be deemed to have completed the probationary period as of the 91 st workday and will be a permanent eployee as of that day. Section 15-E
PICTURE IDENTIFICATION CARD:	All employees must wear picture identification cards wheneveron a campus or district site. Section 13-A.l
7/00
PROBATIONARY STATUS:	Employees will be in a probationary status during the initial ninety (90) workdays of employment Section 15-A
QUASI SUPERVISOR:	Persons assigned to positions that have supervision responsibilities on the employee job description. (e.g. Bookstore Manger, Cafeteria Manger, Craft Chiefs, Lead Custodian, Registrar, Lead Security, etc) Section 10-E
SPLIT ASSIGNMENT:	Employees who hold more than one job title simultaneously under contract and whose name appears on more than one job title seniority list. Section 24-E,l
SUMMER EMPLOYEE:	Classified employee hired to assist during the summer period (approximately June 1 through August 31). In the event that there are no bargaining representative members available the District may seek applicants from outside of the bargaining representatives. Section 3-B
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE:	Temporary employee shall include classified employees and early retirees hired for short periods of time to replace support services personnel at times of extended absences or for overload of work during peak work periods. Temporary will be hired not to exceed 30 cumulative work days. Section 3-B
TERRITORY:	An area in a specific location to where an employee is assigned to work.
VACATIONS:	Permanent emplyees under contract are eligible to receive benefits shall accrue paid vacation. Section 16-G
WORKDAY:	Any workday, exclusive of legal holidays and board declared recess days as identified by the official school calendar. Section l&F-A
WORKSITE:	Any comprehensive, vocational or alternative program campus or any district facility or office.
WORKWEEK:	Full time employee s workday/workweek, consists of 8 hours per day/40 hours per week exclusive of the meal period. Community Skills Assistants and Personal Assistants workday/workweek consists of 8 hours per day/40 hours per week. Full time Instructional Aide workday/workweek consists of 7.5 hours per day/ 37.5 hours per week exclusive of the meal period. Bus Drivers/Bus Assistants workday/workweek consists of a minimum of 25 hours per week. Standard hours of work and the workweek will be scheduled by the administrator in charge. Employees may request a change in work hours. Standard hours of work and workweek may be changed with no less than ten workdays notice, except for short duration in time of emergency. Section 10-A-2t3
7/00
Table of Contents
Section
Employee Rights.......................................... 1
Recognition Membership In Professional Organizations Citizenship Rights Affirmation Action Policy Use Of Facilities By Representative Groups Discussion With Personnel By Group Representatives Classified Employees’ Association (CEA) Meet And Confer Process Distribution Of Information Employee Assistance Personnel Files Review Of Handbook Distribution Of Handbook
Distribution Of Employee Conduct/Discipline Handbook Savings Clause
Filling Vacancies In Permanent Positions...............   2
Temporary/Part-Time Classified Personnel And Student Help.	3
Application Definition Of Temporary Personnel __ Payment Of Temporary Personnel
Part-Time Personnel
Payment Of Part-Time Personnel Eligibility For Permanent Status Student Help
Placement On The Salary Schedule......................... 4
Support Services Salary Schedule Range A
Contracts Of Employment ................................. 5
Probationary Period....................................   &
Line Of Authority........................................ 7
iv
7/00
Pay Period/Deductions........................................   8
Pay Period
Organization Dues Deductions Tax Sheltered Annuity
Work Year.......................................... 9
Hours Of Work....................................   10
Hours Of Work And Workweek Starting Times
Shift Differential
Breaks And Meal Periods
Reporting Absences
Unexcused Absence From Duty Absence During Normal Workday Four-Day Workweek During Summer
Overtime And Compensatory Time.............................. 11
General Provisions
Special Provisions For Food Services Employees Pay Differentials..........................................  12
Scheduled Callback Pay
Unscheduled Or Emergency Callback Pay Food Service Personnel
High Time Premium-Maintenance & Operations
Professional Growth-Top Of The Range
Pay Differentials
Identification, Uniforms & Hand Tool Replacement................. 13
Employee Identification Cards
Uniforms
Replacement Of Hand Tools
Personal Safety.................................................
On-The-Job Accidents Resulting In Injury......................... 15
Industrial Commission Insurance
Fringe Benefits.................................................
Eligibility
Health And Major Medical Insurance
7/00
Payment For Unused Leave Days Upon Resignation, Retirement, Or Death In Service
Life Insurance
Supplemental Disability Insurance
Holidays
Vacations
PUHSD Early Retirement Part-Time Employment Program
Retirement...............................................  17
Normal Retirement ARS §38-757
Leaves Of Absence......................................... 18
Leave Days
Leaves Of Absence Without Pay Bereavement Leave
Temporary Leaves Of Absence To Meet Professional Obligations Release Time For CEA Business
Military Leave
Jury Duty Or Official Subpoena Leave
Natural Disaster
Minimum Leave Of Absence Charges
Evaluation/Performance Review, And Remediation Plan............ 19
General
Formal Evaluation/Performance Review
Informal Evaluation
Remediation Plan
~ “Classified Formal Evaluation Flow Chart
Job Description................................................ 20
Job Descriptions
Job Description Review
New Job Descriptions
Wage Adjustment.............................................    21
Reclassifications.............................................. 22
Seniority..................................................  *	23
Seniority List
vi
7/00
Reduction-In-Force / Surplus..................................   24
Reduction-In-Force Reduction-In-Force Preliminary Reduction-In-Force - Notice Of Termination Due To RIF Reassignment Of Surplus Employees Based Upon Seniority Employees In Split Assignments Recall To Same Job Title Recall To Different Job Title Qualified For Position Notification Of Recall Filling Of Positions Advertising Of Positions Application For Position(s) Recall Rights For Reduction-In-Force Employees Classified Job Title Changes
Transfer And Assignment......................................... 25
Site/Department Vacancy Voluntary Transfer Procedure Involuntary Transfer Assignment And Reassignment
Classroom Coverage.............................................. 26
Movement Between Employee Groups..............................   27
Classified To Certified Positions Classified To Classified Administrative Position Involuntary Return of Certified/Classified Administrative to Classified
Transfer To Acting Status In A Higher Classification............ 28
Permanent Employees Transferred To Acting Status Pay For Acting Status Appointment/Selection To Acting Status Return To Permanent Assignment
Permanent Transfer To Lower Classification...................... 29
Voluntary Transfer To Lower Classification Involuntary Transfer To Lower Classification
7/00
vii
Demotion To Lower Classification
Temporary Transfer To Lower Classification
Promotion To Higher Classification............................ 30
Campus Committee............................................   31
Purpose
Regulation On Membership
Essential Duties/Job Descriptions Grievance Procedure........................................... 32
Purpose Definition Time Limits Right To Representation Reprisals Prohibited General Provisions Grievance Procedure
Appeal Procedure.............................................. 33
What Is Eligible For Appeal Other Avenues Of Appeal Informal Conference Required Guidelines For Formal Appeal Procedure Steps In Formal Appeal Procedure
Reprisals Prohibited Disciplinary Action.................................................. 34
Payment For Student Activity Work...................................  35
Longevity....................................................
Professional Growth...........................................
Professional Growth Program
Committee
Professional Growth Salary Increments
Credit Information
Academic Credit
Equivalent Credit
Appeal Process
viii
7/00
Procedure For Final Approval of 15-,30->45-, and 75 - Hour Increments
General
CEA Professional Growth Mini Procedures for Equivalent Credit
In Service Education............................................ 38
Employee Training...............................................  39
Chief Assignments............................................... 40
Bulletin Boards................................................. 41
Mileage and Auto Liability...................................... 42
Job Titles/Ranges............................................... 43
Job Titles/Ranges Alpha	Listing..................... 43A
Job Titles/Ranges Alternative	Salary Schedule.......... 43B
Support Services Salary Schedule................................ 44
Support Services Salary Schedule Alternative Salary Schedule
Appendices
CEA Presidents Job Description...............................   A
Sub Finder - Reporting Absences................................ B
School Year Calendar.......................................     C
Travel Regulations...........................................   D
Payroll Schedule.............................................   E
Direct Deposit...............................................   F
Name Change...................................................  G
Index-
ix
7/00
SECTION
1
Employee Rights
A.	RECOGNITION
The Phoenix Union High School District hereby acknowledges that the CEA is the bargaining representative for all classified employees.
B.	MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
The Board agrees that eveiy employee of the District shall have the right freely to organize, join, and support any organization for the purpose of engaging in concerted activities for mutual aid and protection. As a duly elected body exercising governmental power under law of the State of Arizona, the Board undertakes and agrees that it will not directly or indirectly discourage or deprive or coerce any employee in the enjoyment of any rights conferred by the Statutes and Constitutions of Arizona and the United States; that it will not discriminate against any employee with respect to hours, wages, or any terms or conditions of employment by reason of his/her membership in any representative group, his/her participation in any activities of the group, his/her participation in any grievance, complaint or proceedings with respect to any terms or conditions of employment. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to deny or restrict any employee rights that s/he may have under the Arizona Revised Statutes or other applicable laws and regulations.
C.	CITIZENSHIP RIGHTS
Employees shall be entitled to full rights of citizenship and no religious or political activities of any employee or lack thereof shall be grounds for any discipline or discrimination with respect to the professional employment of such employee.
D.	AFFIRMATIVE ACTION POLICY
Employees of the Phoenix Union High School District and applicants for employment within the District will be given equal opportunities regardless of race, creed, religion, sex, national origin, ethnic identity, age, marital status, or handicap. The District will continue to cooperate with agencies of the federal and state governments in fulfilling its legal and moral obligation in the are of equal employment opportunity. It is the responsibility of each and every member of the administration of this District to ensure that meaningful equal employment opportunity exists and to develop a work force which reflects appropriate distribution of women and racial minorities all levels of employment throughout the entire school district. The Governing Board and administration pledge to improve the employment of women and racial minorities through the various programs of the District’s Affirmative Action Program. Any conduct, which constitutes sexual harassment, is prohibited.
E.	USE OF FACILITIES BY REPRESENTATIVE GROUPS
Any recognized representative group and its representatives shall have the right to use district facilities at all reasonable hours for meetings, scheduling such use with the Principal, or his/her designee, at the school, provided that this shall not interfere with or interrupt normal school operations. Direct expenses incident to the meeting, other than those normally a part of the school operation shall be borne by the group.
1-1
7/00
F.	DISCUSSION WITH PERSONNEL BY GROUP REPRESENTATIVES
Any representative group recognized by the Board and its representatives shall be permitted to discuss matters pertaining to group business with District personnel on campus at all reasonable times, provided that this shall not interfere with or interrupt normal operations. Direct expenses of any meeting resulting from such discussions, other than those normally a part of school operation shall be borne by the group.
G.	CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES’ ASSOCIATION (CEA)
All classified employees shall have the opportunity to join the Classified Employees Association.
The employee groups listed below are currently recognized by the Governing Board:
SUPPORT SERVICES
Educational Assistants	Crafts/Campus Facility Supervisors
Student Services	Custodians/ Groundskeepers
Food Services	Transportation/Security
Office Personnel	Business/Operations
For each support services job title, the representative group will be identified on the salary schedule in the Classified Handbook.
H.	MEET AND CONFER PROCESS
The Interest Based Negotiations process will be used as the Meet and Confer process for the 2000-2001 school year. An Interest Based Negotiations procedures manual will be distributed to all employees.
1.	Meeting Times and Places
a.	The representatives from employee groups will meet on a regular basis to plan Meet and Confer agendas and schedule Meet and Confer meetings.
b.	The Meet and Confer process will commence at the beginning of the school year at times and places mutually agreeable to all parties.
c.	A good faith effort will be made to complete the succeeding year’s compensation package by May 1 of each year.
2.	Meet-and-Confer Team
Each party will select its own representatives.
3.	Released time for meet and confer team members
When a classified employee is engaged during the school day as a CEA member of the Meet and Confer Team meeting with other employee group member(s) of the Meet and Confer Team, s/he shall be released from regular duties with no loss of salary.
4.	Good Faith
The parties agree that they will make a good faith effort to resolve matters to their mutual satisfaction and agreement.
V2
7/00
5.	Access to Information
All employee groups agree to make a good faith effort to furnish other available information upon request.
6.	Sessions
Meet-and-confer sessions will be open to the public, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon in advance. The only people empowered to speak are the authorized meet-and-confer representatives. The public may speak, if desired, after adjournment of the regular meeting.
7.	Caucuses
Any employee group may request a caucus at any time. Caucuses of any of the employee groups shall be conducted apart from the other parties and in private.
8.	Tentative Agreements
Tentative agreements reached as a result of Meet and Confer will be reduced to writing, will have conditional approval of all employee groups, and will be initialed and dated by representatives of each employee group.
9.	Ratification
When tentative agreement has been reached by all parties on Meet-and-Confer issues, each employee group will recommend approval to its constituents. The final agreement will be signed and dated by authorized designees of all employee groups and the Governing Board. Ratified language will be added to the appropriate professional agreements and handbooks, with implementation dates.
I.	DISTRIBUTION OF INFORMATION
The recognized representative groups shall have the right to place appropriately identified notices, circulars and other materials on designated school bulletin boards and in the employees’ mail boxes. At least one bulletin board on each campus shall be reserved exclusively for group material. The group representative on campus (or his/her designee) will assume responsibility for posting and distribution of the material for the group. An information copy of the distributed material shall be sent to the Principal/Administrator/Supervisor (or his/her designee) at the time of posting or distribution. Material endorsing or opposing a candidate for public office may not be so distributed or posted. The District courier service may be used for the distribution of the above material.
J.	EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE
In the case of an assault upon an employee, or a complaint or suit by third parties as a result of action taken by the employee while performing his/her duties, the District shall render all reasonable assistance to the employee in connection with the handling of the incident by law enforcement and judicial authorities.
K.	PERSONNEL FILES
The personnel file of each employee shall be maintained in the District’s Employee Relations Office. All materials placed in the employee’s file originating within the District shall be available to the employee at his/her request for inspecting and/or obtaining copies. The employee shall have the right to answer any of the materials filed.
V3
7/00
All references and information originating outside the District will be available for inspection by the employee, if they had not previously waived their right to see such material.
All personnel files shall be kept confidential and shall be available for inspection only when actually necessary in the proper administration of the District’s affairs or supervision of the employee. A log shall be maintained with each file to indicate names of those who have examined the file and dates it was examined.
Material originating within the District which is derogatory to an employee’s conduct, service, character, or personality shall not be placed in an employee’s file, unless the employee has had an opportunity to read the material. The employee shall acknowledge that s/he has read such material by his/her signature. The signature does not necessarily indicate agreement with the content of the material. If s/he refuses to sign, the supervisor will so note in the presence of the Unit CEA representative, or employee’s designee, sign and date the Employee Relations Office copy and forward it to the Employee Relations Office. No material originating within the District, which is derogatory to an employee, shall be kept in any unit and/or department files, other than the Employee . Relations Office. (Will not pertain to evaluation forms.)
L.	REVIEW OF HANDBOOK
The contents of the Classified Employees Association Handbook will be reviewed annually by the meet and confer team to recommend revisions, deletions, or additions.
M.	DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBOOK
The revised Classified Employees Association Handbook will be distributed each year to each employee as soon as possible prior to the opening of school.
If the wage and salary schedules are not approved when the remainder of the Handbook is ready to be printed, these schedules will be sent out as an addendum as soon thereafter as possible.
Employees will sign a statement acknowledging receipt of Classified Employees Association Handbook.
N.	DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEE CONDUCT/DISCIPLINE HANDBOOK
Employees will sign a statement acknowledging receipt of the Employee Gonduct/Discipline Handbook.
O.	SAVINGS CLAUSE
The provisions in the Classified Employees Association Handbook are subject in all respects to the laws of the United States and the State of Arizona with respect to the powers, rights, duties, and obligations of the Governing Board, in the event that any provisions of the Handbook shall at any time is held contrary to law, then such provisions shall be of no force and effect, but all other provisions are continued in full force and effect. It is understood that formal legal opinion issued by the Office of the County Attorney, and concurred in by the office of the Attorney General, shall have the force of law for the Governing Board.
The Handbook shall not conflict with the policies of the Governing Board.
The provisions in the Handbook shall not be changed without the mutual consent of the Board and the Representative Group during the period July 1 to June 30.
1-4
7/00
SECTION
2
Filling Vacancies in Permanent Positions
When.an existing permanent position becomes vacant and is to be filled, a Position Vacancies sheet listing the essential information regarding the vacancy will be prepared within a reasonable length of time not to exceed 10 work days by the Employee Relations Office and sent to each unit. The Position Vacancies sheet will be posted immediately on the designated bulletin board at each location. Interested applicants must observe the closing date which is the deadline for making application.
1.	Part-time positions will be advertised.
2.	Summer positions will be advertised.
3.	Summer school positions will be filled in accordance with the summer school established process.
4.	Temporary position vacancies will not be advertised.
B.	Application must be made for each job advertised. There will be no carryover. All applicants must complete a Position Qualification Form (PR 14) in the Employee Relations Office, which will be screened by the Employee Relations Office to determine whether applicants meet the threshold qualifications contained in the job description.
C.	Employees must have been employed in the district for a minimum of twelve (12) months immediately preceding the date in which the vacant or new permanent position is posted to be eligible to apply for other positions. All eligible contract and regular part-time employees of the District who are qualified in accord with job description requirements and who apply for the advertised position prior to the closing date will be scheduled for interview. Outside applicants may be interviewed.
1.	Within five (5) workdays after the closing date to make application, the Employee Relations Office will advise the appropriate administrative supervisor of the qualified applicants.
2.	The administrative supervisor or designee will contact each District applicant and schedule an interview.
3.	Interviews and selection will be conducted within ten (10) workdays in accordance with established procedures in the interview and selection of classified staff and as defined by the Employee Relations Division.
D.	Selection will be made from the applicants by the appropriate administrator/supervisor, in accord with established procedures in the interview and selection of classified staff and as defined by the Employee Relations Division. Applicants interviewed for the position will be notified by memorandum when the selection is made. If there are in-district candidates interviewed, the
2-1
7/00
recommendation for hire will not become final until 5 workdays following the date of written notification to allow for possible procedural challenges
Arrangements to transfer the selected in-district employee will be made in a prompt and expeditious manner. In the event the selected employee must be retained in the employee’s present position for a longer period of time, the employee will be compensated at the new rate of pay three weeks after the Employee Relations Office has been notified of the selection.
E.	New employees to the District will not begin work until the Employee Relations Department has notified the appropriate administration, in writing, that the new employee has completed appropriate paper work and may begin work.
F.	Copies of all current job descriptions will be kept at each Principal/Direc-tor/Supervisor’s office and CEA office:
2 2
7/00
SECTION
3
TEMPORARY/PART-TlME Classified personnel and Student help
A.	APPLICATION
Temporary/part-time classified personnel including student help must complete the appropriate application for employment before service to the district begins.
B.	DEFINITION OF TEMPORARY PERSONNEL
The term "temporary personnel" shall include classified employees and early retirees as specified in Section 16-H hired to replace support services personnel at times of extended absence or for overload of work during peak work periods. Except for temporary personnel who are hired to assist during the summer period (approximately June 1 through August 31), and cafeteria workers employed for less than four (4) hours per day, temporary personnel will be hired only when absolutely necessary and should not be employed longer than thirty (30) continuous workdays.
C.	PAYMENT OF TEMPORARY PERSONNEL
1.	When temporary personnel except early retirees are hired, they shall be paid within the applicable range of pay as presented in Section 4.
2.	Temporary personnel receive no fringe benefits except Industrial Commission insurance coverage.
3.	Early retirees are paid in accordance with Section 16-H.
D.	PART-TIME PERSONNEL
The term part-time personnel shall include employees hired to work less than twenty (20) hours per week. Hours worked per week may vaiy from time to time based upon ~~ need; employment may or may not continue from one school year to the next (based upon need) as determined by the appropriate administrator at the individual work locations, temporary employees do not have priority for this position. If such temporary employee applies for and is selected to fill the vacancy, and there is no break in his/her continuity of service, the number of days s/he served as a temporary shall be counted in his/her probationary period.
E.	PAYMENT OF PART-TIME PERSONNEL
When part-time personnel are hired, they shall be paid within the applicable range of pav as presented in Section 4.
Part-time personnel receive no fringe benefits except Industrial Commission Insurance coverage.
3-1
7/00
F.	ELIGIBILITY FOR PERMANENT STATUS
Should the employee who is being replaced on a temporary basis not return to work, the job vacancy will be advertised. The term "part-time personnel" shall include employees hired to work less than twenty (20) hours per week.
A part-time employee who applies for an advertised position and who meets the position qualifications will be interviewed. If the part-time employee applies and is selected for a position which is the same classification in which he/she is working part-time and there is no break in. his/her continuity of service, the number of days worked as a part-time employee, converted to full day equivalents, shall be counted in his/her probationary period.
If the part-time employee applies and is selected for a position which is not the same classification in which he/she is working part-time, the number of days worked as a part-time employee will not be counted in his/her probationary period.
All fringe benefits will become effective as of the date of permanent employment in accordance with normal effective dates.
G.	STUDENT HELP
The term student help shall include district students hired in the following categories:
Student help at schools
Student help working nights at schools
Student help at location other than where the student attends school
1.	When students, including Cooperative Work Experience students and special education students, are hired, they shall be paid within the applicable range of pay as presented in Section 4.
2.	Student help receive no fringe benefits.
3 2
7/00
SECTION
f
4
PLACEMENT ON THE SALARY SCHEDULE
A.	Employees new to the District shall be placed on the first step or appropriate hourly rate of the salary schedule applicable to the position and classification which is being assumed by the employee, except as indicated below.
B.	New employees may be granted advance placement on the support services salary schedule at time of employment in accord with the following:
1.	New employees who have an Associate in Arts Degree at time of employment will be granted one step on the salary schedule and start at step 2.
2.	New employees who have a Bachelor’s Degree at time of employment will be granted two steps on the salary schedule and start at step 3.
3.	New employees who have a Masters Degree at time of employment will be granted three steps on the salary schedule and start at step 4.
4.	New employees who have prior experience in a position where it Can be determined that the job was similar, will be granted one step on the salary schedule for each school year equivalent of full time employment of such experience with a three year maximum, and be placed on step 2, 3, or 4, as appropriate. Such employment must have been no longer than three years ago. Credit will be granted as follows:
Three years experience within past five years - Step 4
Two years experience within past four years - Step 3
One year, experience within past three years - Step 2
5.	A maximum of three steps will be granted regardless of any combination of 1, 2, 3, and 4 above.
C.	In the re-employment of an employee to a position of the same or lower range within twelve (12) months of disassociation, the employee will be placed on the same step of the salary schedule as held at the time of disassociation. A returning employee who has been away from the District for more than twelve (12) months, but not in excess of thirty-six (36) months, will receive credit not to exceed three steps and be placed on step 4 for directly related experience in the Phoenix Union High School District. A returning employee who has been away from the District for more than three (3) years will receive no advance step placement other than provided for above.
D.	A classified employee shall be advanced through the steps of the Salary Schedule at the rate of one step per year of service in the District, except as otherwise provided in the Classified Employee’s Association Handbook.
7/00 (revised 8/03)
4-1
E.	Temporary/part-time classified personnel and student help shall be placed on the Support Services Salary Schedule as follows:
L Temporary personnel other than early retirees will be placed at the first step of the appropriate classification on the support services salary schedule of the job, which they are filling.
2< Early retirees are paid in accordance With Section 16-H.
3.	Part-time personnel, including short-hour food service shall be placed at Step 4, Range A, on the Support Services’ Salary Schedule and may move up to a maximum of Step 7, Range A, for each consecutive year of service.
4.	Student help shall be placed at Step 1, Range A, on the Support Services Salary Schedule and may move up to a maximum of Step 4, Range A, as determined by the supervisor.	.
SUPPORT SERVICES SALARY SCHEDULE RANGE A					
Step 1	Step 2 5.15	5.46	Step 3 5.79	• Step 4 6.18	Step 5 6.55	Step 6 6.95	Step 7 7.36
7/00 (revised 8/03)
4-2
SECTION
5
Contracts of Employment
A. ACCEPTANCE OF CONTRACT
1.	Employees shall indicate acceptance of contract for the ensuing year by signing and returning the contract or by an acceptance in writing which is delivered to the Employee Relations Office within thirty (30) days from the date of the contract. An employee who fails to return his/her contract within the thirty (30) days shall be deemed to have resigned.
2.	Any apparent errors in the contract amount for continuing employees, in accord with salary schedule placement, must be brought to the attention of the Employee Relations Office prior to October 1 of any school year, or within ninety (90) days after issuance of the contract, if the contract is issued after September 1 of the school year. When there is less than ninety (90) days from the date of contract issuance to the end of the school year, such advisement to the Employee Relations Office must be made prior to June 1 of the school year in which the contract was issued. Should there be any contracts resulting in overpayment to any employee, an adjustment will be made in the contract at any time during the fiscal year to reflect the correct amount.
3.	When practical, employees will be notified in advance that they have been overpaid and necessaiy adjustments will be made. In the absence of a legal requirement to the contrary every effort will be made to structure the adjustments to minimize the hardship on the employee.
4.	An employee of PUHSD who obtains employment from another institution in which the work hours of such new employment directly conflicts with the established work hours of his/her job at PUHSD will be deemed to have committed a breach of contract which constitutes cause for termination. The Superintendent or designee shall notify the employee by certified mail, sent to the employee’s last known address, of breach of contract and provide a reason(s) to justify cause of termination. The employee will be given ten (10) work days upon receipt of notification of breach of contract to respond to the Superintendent or designee and present evidence that cause for termination does not exist.
5-1
7/00
SECTION
Probationary Period
A.	Employees will be in a probationary status during the initial ninety (90) workdays of employment. Workday is defined as any workday exclusive of legal holidays and board declared recess days as identified by the official school calendar. During this time, the probationary employee is subject to immediate release or discharge by the district with a written notice of dismissal containing reasons for release. This notice will come from the immediate administrator (Division Manager, Director, Educational Unit Administrator, Assistant Principal, or Principal). A copy of notice of dismissal shall be sent to the CEA president.
B.	All probationary employees will be evaluated no later than the end of the 45th workday. If the employee is to be retained, no further evaluation will be necessary and the employee will fall under the evaluation timelines in Section 19. Two evaluations must be done if a probationary employee is to be dismissed for performance, with the second being done no later than the 90th workday.
C.	A probationary employee may be terminated for cause or for poor performance. "For cause" terminations are based on factors such as poor attitude, use of improper profane language inappropriate language, inappropriate conduct with students, staff, or campus visitors, poor attendance etc. "for performance" terminations result from the employee not meeting standards on one or more of the indicators covered by the evaluation. If the probationary employee is to be released for reasons of work performance deficiency, this will only occur after the probationary employee’s second evaluation. Information regarding the evaluation process is in Section 19. If the probationary employee is to be released for reasons other than work performance deficiency, evaluation(s) prior to dismissal are not required. Problems in areas such as attendance and attitude can be the basis for termination under either "for cause" or "for performance" based on the nature of the problem with a particular employee.
D.	Probationary employees to be dismissed shall be provided minimal due process.
E.	A probationary employee who has not been advised prior to or on the 90th workday that s/he is not being retained will be deemed to have completed the probationary period as of the 91st workday and will be a permanent employee as of that day. After the probationary period of ninety (90) workdays has elapsed, no employee shall be disciplined or discharged without just cause.
07/04
Probationary Period 6-1
SECTION
LINE OF AUTHORITY
A.	General operating procedure provides that each employee shall have one (I) immediate supervisor only. Each classified employee will receive a completed line of authority form within the first two weeks of her/his contract start date. Requests for services of the employee(s) should be made to the employee’s supervisor who will make assignments to personnel under his/her supervision.
B.	An employee’s immediate supervisor can change in the maintenance services department depending upon the workload.
C.	In the best interest of the district, an employee may from time to time be expected to carry out an order from an administrator from his/her site or division who may not be his/her immediate supervisor. In these situations the employee is to follow that reasonable request.
D.	When requests for employee services are not being made in accord with general operating procedure, such should be brought to the attention of the appropriate administrator for the purpose of rectifying the situation. However, no employee shall be disciplined for insubordination as a result of a refusal to carry out a request issued by someone other than his/her immediate supervisor, if that request is unreasonable, inappropriate, may put that employee at risk, or is not in the best interest of the district. Similarly, an employee may not be disciplined for following such a request.
0704
7-1
SECTION
8
Pay Period/ Deductions
PAY PERIOD
The pay period shall normally be bi-weekly. Every other Friday is the regular payday.
Direct Deposit is available to all full-time employees with the exception of those who are on a no pay status. The payroll department has the authority to remove employees from direct deposit once they have been identified by various means as being on a no pay status. Notification must be given to employee so they know to pick up their check from the appropriate personnel. For Direct Deposit information please see section Appendix F.
ORGANIZATION DUES DEDUCTION
The District provides to employees the opportunity to have approved organization(s) dues withheld from the employee's pay on a regular basis. The employee must sign an appropriate form authorizing such deduction. Such authorization shall continue in effect unless subsequent to June 1 and prior to September 15 of any year, such authorization is formally revoked by the employee in writing and delivered to the group representative which, upon receipt of such request of cancellation, shall notify the Payroll Office. The deduction of membership dues upon member's request shall be made in equal amounts from the employees pay checks following the receipt and processing of the request, and the Board agrees to remit promptly to the respective group all moneys deducted accompanied by a list of employees from whom the deductions have been made. Approved organizations shall notify the School District Administration's Payroll- Department of any changes of address for submitting dues.
TAX SHELTERED ANNUITY
The~ Phoenix Union High School District is presently participating in the tax sheltered annuity program approved by the Internal Revenue Service. Employees whose financial status allows them to participate in the program can add to their monthly retirement program already consisting of Social Security and State Retirement.
Full details and application forms are available in the Payroll Office.
8-1
7/00
SECTION
Work Year
A.	Nine-month work year is from the day the employees return to duty through the last day of school. Starting and ending dates and number of days worked are determined by the school calendar for each year.
B.	Nine and one-half month work year is two (2) weeks longer than the nine-month work year. Normally, starting date is one (1) week prior to starting date of nine-month work year and ending date is one (1) week after ending date of nine-month work year. Starting and ending dates and number of days worked are determined by the school calendar for each year.
C.	Ten-month work year is four (4) weeks longer than nine-month work year. Normally, starting date is two (2) weeks prior to starting date of nine-month work year and ending date is two (2) weeks after ending date of nine-month work year. Starting and ending dates and number of days worked are determined by the school calendar for each year.
D.	Twelve-month work year is from the first work day of July of each year through the last work day of June of each year.
E.	Specific starting dates and ending dates, for less than twelve-month assignments, may be determined by the appropriate administrator as long as the number of workdays is in accord with the school calendar. When adjustments in starting and ending dates are made, the Employee, Employee Relations Office and the President of CEA must be notified in writing.
9-1
7/00
SECTION
10
Hours of Work
A.	HOURS OF WORK AND WORKWEEK
1.	Standard hours of work and the workweek will be established by the administrator in charge. Employees will be advised of their work hours upon acceptance of the position. Standard hours of work and the workweek may be changed in accordance with provisions in paragraph #2 below.
2.	Standard hours of work and the workweek may be changed with no less than ten (10) workdays notice except for short duration in time of emergency. If there is a change in the standard work hours or workweek, the administrator in charge will meet with the employee(s) in that job title at that location and give rational for the change. The employee will be notified in writing which will include the reason for the change of work hours. Volunteers will be asked for, if there are volunteers) selection will be based oh district seniority. If there are no volunteers, the least senior employee(s), based on district seniority will be assigned.
a.	An employee may request a change in work hours by submitting a request in writing with rationale to the administrator in charge. The administrator in charge will respond to the employee(s) request in writing.
b.	Additionally, notification of the change of work hours/workweek will be submitted to the C.E.A. President and the Employee Relations Office.
3.	All full-time employee’s workday/workweek consists of eight (8) hours per day/forty (40) hours per week exclusive of the meal period including but not limited to the following:
a.	Community Skills Assistants and Personal Assistants workday/workweek consists of eight hours (8) per day/forty (40) hours per week.
b.	Full-time Instructional Aides, workday/workweek consists of seven and one-half (7.5) hours per day/thirty-seven and one-half (37.5) hours per week exclusive of the meal period.
c.	Bus Drivers/Bus Assistants workday/workweek consists of a minimum of twenty-five (25) hours per week.
B.	STARTING TIMES
1.	Day Shift - Work begins between 5:00 a.m. and noon.
2.	Evening Shift - Work begins between noon and 6:00 p.m.
3.	Night Shift - Work begins after 6:00 p.m.
4.	Employees working the evening or night shift may be changed to day shift from the Monday after the close of school until Monday of the week teacher’s return.
C.	SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL
1	Shift differentials will be paid for evening shift and night shift schedules for assignments of not less than eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of the meal period.
10-1
7/00
D.
2. Employees working an evening or night shift may be assigned to the day shift for a period of up to ten (10) consecutive workdays, without loss of shift differential, while school is in session. Should such a reassignment of any employee cause conflict with regularly scheduled commitments of the employee, the reassignment will not occur.
BREAKS AND MEAL PERIODS
1.	All employees shall have a duty free lunch (length of meal period must be approved by the administrator in charge) and break(s) of a duration provided for as in the following schedule:
Hours/day 0 — 4 4-6 6-8
Breaks
None 1-15 minutes 2-15 minutes
Meal Period
None 30-60 minutes 30-60 minutes
E.	REPORTING ABSENCES
The individual employee must report absences due to leave (e.g. personal illness or injury, family illness, parental obligations, family death, or personal business) by calling the absence reporting system no later than thirty (30) minutes before the employee’s starting time. In addition to reporting to the automated system the employee must contact their immediate administrative supervisor and quasi supervisor (certified staff are not considered supervisors) on the campus/site. Approved absences for any other reason are reported directly to the employee’s immediate administrative supervisor. For additional information on how to report your absence refer to Appendix B.
F.	UNEXCUSED ABSENCE FROM DUTY
If an employee is not on duty or arrives late or leaves early on any workday(s) and his/her absence is not a result of any approved leave of absence with pay, including leave days for which the employee is eligible, that employee shall not be paid for such time lost. Any deduction of pay is exclusive of payment of TSA in lieu of health insurance.
An employee on an unapproved absence for three (3) consecutive workdays will be deemed to have abandoned his/her position and will be terminated by the District. Written notice by certified mail of such action will be sent to the employee’s last known address. The employee so notified will have the right to due process under the current established procedures which includes the right to present his/her reasons, within a specified period of time, to either their principal, director of classified or certified, or Superintendent or designee. The administrative decision as to termination is binding.
G ABSENCE DURING NORMAL WORKDAY
An absence up to four (4) hours will be considered a half day. An absence of more than six (6) hours will be considered a full day. Absences of less than two (2) hours may be handled at the discretion of the supervisor, with all employees being treated fairly-
Employees who find it necessary to leave work during their normal workday will do so only after approval of their supervisor. If an emergency occurs and if the supervisor is not available the request lor approval must take place no later than the next scheduled workday.
10-2
7/00
H. FOUR-DAY WORKWEEK DURING SUMMER
A four-day workweek may be scheduled during the summer. The decision as to which campuses, units, or divisions, and which positions will be placed on this schedule will be determined by the Superintendent (or his designee) prior to April 1 of each year. The number of hours on duty per week will be the same for those on a four-day workweek as for those on a five-day workweek.
The computation of vacation days and leave days with pay, either accumulation or use, will be on a proportionate basis of 1.25 days for each day on duty during this four-day week period (or an equivalent of five days per week), the same as employees on a five-day workweek.
10-3
7/00
SECTION
11
OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY TIME
A.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	All time worked beyond eight (8) hours in a day requires prior written approval of the Principal, Educational Unit Administrator, Director, Division Manager, or administrative designee.
When the classified employee is not able to get prior written approval, the following will prevail:
The employer must compensate overtime whether the overtime was approved in advance or not, providing the following conditions have been met:
A.	The supervisor was aware the employee was working overtime.
B.	The employee keeps a record of the time, date, and amount of overtime, and a brief description of the work performed.
C.	A copy of the overtime report is given to the supervisor along with any time slips required of management.
2.	An employee must physically work in excess of forty (40) hours in a workweek, exclusive of time lost for approved school business during the workweek, to be eligible for overtime. Overtime will be compensated at one of the following rates.
A.	Overtime: time and one-half the hourly rate.
B.	Compensatory time: one and one-half hours for each hour.
C.	Combination: part pay and part compensatoiy time so long as the principle of time and one-half is maintained.
3.	The administrator approving the work beyond eight (8) hours will identify the method of compensation prior to the performance of the work.
4.	Overtime/compensatoiy time will be in quarter-hour segments.
5.	Vouchers for overtime pay are to be submitted bi-weekly.
6.	Maximum number of compensatoiy hours which may be accrued is 240 (160 hours at straight time).
7.	Hours over 240 accrued compensatoiy time must be paid at time and one-half.
8.	Compensatory time must be used within the contract year for which it was
earned.
9.	Based on funding all unused compensatory time as of the end of each contract year must be paid to the person at time and one-half the hourly rate or added to your leave days.
10.	All work performed on Sunday will be compensated at double the regular rate unless Sunday is a part of the regular workweek.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
11-1
11.	An employee may be requested to work on a legal holiday or recess day(s) as designated on the school calendar. When this occurs the employee shall be paid at straight time or receive compensatory time at straight time.
12.	Up to five (5) days of compensatory time may be added to a vacation qr rec^s3 period, Up to twenty (20) days of compensatptytimemay bei added to leaver Prior written approval of the appropriate administrator is required.
13	Overtime may be required and normally the employee(s) performing such work during his/her regular assignment will continue work into the overtime period.
14.	Overtime shall be divided as equally and equitably as possible among employees normally performing that type of work.
15.	Compensation for all classified employees covered by this handbook shall be in compliance with applicable state and federal laws.
B.	SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR FOOD SERVICES EMPLOYEES
1.	Contract Food Services personnel who work less than forty (40) hours per week and who are required to work hours in excess of their regular schedule for extra dinners shall be paid or granted compensatory time in accord with A-2 this section.
2.	Contract Food Services personnel who have completed their normal work shift, left work, and have to return to work (banquet or other activity) will be paid a minimum of two hours in accord with A-2 this section.
7/00 (revised 8/03)
14-2
SECTION
12
Pay Differentials
A.	SCHEDULED CALLBACK PAY
An employee called to work for a scheduled activity between the closing time of his/her regular work shift and the starting time of his/her next regular work shift shall be paid a minimum of two (2) hours’ pay at the applicable overtime rate, except as provided in Section ll-A-2 Overtime. This callback time will not apply to overtime worked consecutive to his/her regular work shift.
B.	UNSCHEDULED OR EMERGENCY CALLBACK PAY
An employee called to work for an unscheduled or emergency occurrence between the closing time of his/her regular work shift and the starting time of his/her next regular work shift shall be paid a minimum of two (2) hours pay at double the normal rate of pay, except as provided in Section ll-A-2, Overtime. This callback time will not apply to overtime worked consecutive to his/her regular work shift.
C.	FOOD SERVICE PERSONNEL
Short-hour Food Services personnel who work in excess of their regular schedule will be paid at their regular rate of pay for the time in excess of they’re regular schedule. However any short-hour employee who has completed his/her normal shift and left work and returned to work (to work a banquet or other activity) will be paid time and one-half for the time worked upon return to work.
D.	HIGH TIME PREMIUM-MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONS
High Time - On any operation where there is a possibility of a free fall of twenty-five (25) feet or more, double time shall be paid for the time spent on the operation in fifteen (15) minute segments. Excludes work when performed from a mechanized work container and/or platform with safety rails.
Asbestos - Asbestos abatement team members, while working with asbestos removal, will be paid double time for the time spent on the operation in fifteen (15) minute segments. Participation on asbestos abatement team shall be voluntary.
E.	PROFESSIONAL GROWTH - TOP OF THE RANGE
Professional Growth columns on the salary schedule (Section 44) indicate amounts above the top step are applicable only when an employee has reached the top of the range on which the employee’s position is located and (a) is eligible for one, two, or three professional growth increments as outlined in the Professional Growth Chapter in the Classified Employees Association Handbook; or (b) possesses an Associate, Bachelor’s, or Master’s degree as outlined in the Placement on the Salary Schedule Chapter in the Classified Employees Association Handbook
The annual salry for Food Services personnel is determined by using the hourly rate as identified on the salary schedule (Section44) and multiplying it by the number of hours worked per day times the applicable number of days in the work year.
E. PAY DIFFERENTIALS
SUPPORT SERVICES	RATE PER HOUR
Evening Shift* - Support Services	-16
Night Shift**	*32
* Custodians and building maintenance workers working combination of evening and day shift during vear, receive $.13 per hour differential throughout the year.
- Custodians and building maintenance workers working combination of night and day shift during the year receive $.25 per hour differential throughout the year.
12’1
7/00
SECTION
13
IDENTIFICATION, UNIFORMS &
Hand Tool Replacement
A.	EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION CARDS
1.	All employees, for the safety and security of students and employees, will be issued picture identification cards that are to be worn whenever on a campus or district site.
2.	Employees not wearing his/her picture identification card may be requested by the appropriate authority to present and wear his/her identification card, if unable to do so they are subject to removal from district premises by Administration.
B.	UNIFORMS
1.	Clothing appropriate to job duties is to be worn at all times the employee is on duty.
2.	Uniforms shall be required only for the personal safety of the employee(s).
3.	Uniforms required by the district for the safety of the employee shall be paid for or provided by the district.
C.	REPLACEMENT OF HAND TOOLS
On an exchange basis, the District will replace for craft personnel hand tools which are listed on an approved list of hand tools for his/her job assignment which have been lost on the job due to burglary. Replacement of lost hand tools is limited exclusively to and such burglary must occur on District premises.
13-1
7/00
SECTION
14
Personal Safety
A.	The District shall furnish all equipment required for personal safety. Every employee is expected to accept safety and accident prevention as an active part of his/her job assignment. S/He should observe and report safety hazards as a basic job requirement to his/her immediate supervisor.
B.	An employee shall have the right to refuse to carry out an order that might be hazardous to him/her or those around him/her or when it is not related to his/her craft, trade, or position wherein there would be a potential hazard to the employee. When such a circumstance arises, the appropriate supervisor shall immediately review the alleged hazard.
C.	At no time shall an employee be required to search for any form of explosives on or
around the school property. Nor shall s/he be required to act as a police/security force in mob control or any act of force by others. An employee may volunteer for such duties if s/he wishes to do so.
De No less than two (2) custodians will be assigned to a night shift at any location. Other classified staff members shall not be assigned to a night shift at any location/site unless another staff member is present during said shift.
E.	The district service warehouse will stock necessary safety supplies and equipment. Items to be issued to school units as needed.
14-1
7/00
SECTION
15
On-The-Job Accidents Resulting in Injury
A.	The law requires the District to participate in a compensation insurance plan approved by the Industrial Commission of the State of Arizona. The Industrial Commission Insurance schedule listed below is not a negotiated section of this handbook language.
B.	All on-the-job accidents resulting in injury must be reported to the employee’s immediate supervisor and paperwork completed promptly for future claims to be acknowledged.
Industrial Commission Insurance
TIME MISSED	COMPENSATION FROM INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION	COMPENSATION FROM SCHOOL DISTRICT	CHARGE AGAINST SICK LEAVE ACCOUNT
Less than 8 calendar days	None	Base pay for time missed until leave days expire.	Day for day on time missed.
8 through 13 calendar days	A percentage of employee’s pay as determined by the Industrial Commission formula, excluding first seven calendar days.	Balance of base pay for 8th through 13th calendar days until leave days expire.	For that portion of time compensated by District.
14 calendar days or more	A percentage of the employee’s pay as determined by the Industrial Commission formula, including the first seven calendar days missed.	Balance of base pay for all the time missed until leave days expire. Difference of base pay and that paid for by the Industrial Commission.	For that portion of time compensated by District.
Leave days charged is same percentage as compensation paid by the District, rounded down to the nearest half-day in adjusting leave days account in accordance with this schedule.
15-1
7/00
SECTION
16
FRINGE BENEFITS
A.	ELIGIBILITY
Permanent and probationary employees who are hired after July 1, 1984, and work 24 hours or more per week under contract are considered full-time employees and are eligible for fringe benefits. Those employees hired prior to July lf 1984, and who work less than 24 hours per week will continue with the same fringe benefits previously granted throughout the year regardless of length of work year.
B.	HEALTH AND MAJOR MEDICAL INSURANCE
1.	All permanent and probationary employees are covered by health and medical insurance as described in the master contract(s) between the District and the provider which becomes effective based upon eligibility date and the date of enrollment by employee. Premiums for the employee's coverage are paid by the District. When more than one (1) health insurance plan is offered, and the employee selects the plan of his/her preference, the District pays an amount equal to the annual premium of the lowest cost plan.
2.	Dependent coverage is available under the payroll deduction plan, with the premiums for dependent coverage paid by the employee.
3.	Employees, hired prior to July 1, 1987, may select in lieu of health/medical insurance benefits; a tax sheltered annuity with an agreement that the amount will remain in the annuity program for the duration of employment in the District.
4.	the TSA amount shall be equal to $1,177.00 for a full year contract or an amount proportionate thereof based upon the date of exercise of the option as follows:
a.	Between the 1st and 15th of the month, TSA effective the first of the following month.
b.	Between the 16th of the month and last day of the month, TSA effective the first of the second following month.
c.	An employee choosing a tax sheltered annuity option and then having an emergency during the insurance year, due to spousal change (divorce, marriage, \ death), shall be allowed, upon approval of the insurance carrier to re-enter one of the District’s health plans. The cost of this health insurance will be at the employee’s expense through the payroll deduction process or a cash payment if during a non-payroll period.	• . .
C.	PAYMENT FOR UNUSED LEAVE DAYS UPON RESIGNATION, RETIREMENT, OR DEATH IN SERVICE
1	. Effective July 1, 1998, a classified employee with continuous satisfactory service at the time of retirement, resignation, termination, or death in service from the District shall receive (or his/her estate) a financial payment at the rate of 45% times the daily rate of pay during the final year of employment for any unused leave days.
Leave days shall be accumulative indefinitely for normal use.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
16-1
2	An employee, who notifies the District in writing of his/her intent to terminate employment by February 15 of the prior year, may be issued a final severance contract. Acceptance of benefits under this program constitutes acceptance and an irrevocable intent to retire/terminate employment. All accrued leave days in excess of that earned during the final year of employment will be computed at 45% times the daily rate of pay. The employee may choose one of the following options:
Option I
Leave days payoff will be paid in one lump sum after the employee’s final date of employment.
Option II
Leave days payoff will be included in the contract issued for the last year of employment and will be paid according to the 20 or 26 pay period option chosen by the employee for his/her regular pay. The additional leave days payoff amount shall not be included in the employee’s daily rate of pay.
The leave days bank purchased under option II will constitute total leave days. If the employee should subsequently need to use sick days for which they were paid, the District may grant those days and dock at 100% of this/her daily rate of pay for each additional day of leave days used.
Option III
Leave days payoff will be paid in two equal lump sums; the first to be paid the last regular pay date in December of the employee’s final year of employment and the second payment to be made after the employee’s final date of employment.
An employee who chooses options II or III is not eligible to participate in the medical leave assistance program.
If the employee does not notify the District in writing by the February 15 deadline, leave days payoffs will be paid according to option I.
Additional leave will continue to accrue during the last year of employment as per agreement.
Payment upon termination Of employment under these conditions will be made for the balance of the last year of accrued unused leave days at the applicable percentage rate times the daily rate of pay.
D.	LIFE INSURANCE
The governing board shall provide, at no cost to the employee, group term life insurance as described in the master contract(s) between the District and the provider^ Amount of coverage equal to $25,000 or ism amount equal to annual salary, whichever is greater.
E? SUPPLEMENTAL DISABILITY INSURANCE
The governing board shall provide, at no cost to the employee, group supplemental disabilify insurance coverage as described in the master contract(s) between the District and the provider which will pay two-thirds of the contract salary after a minimum 90 calendar day waiting period following disability for either sickness or accident to age 65 or a maximum of 180 calendar days. The conditions of coverage will be spelled out in a booklet to be provided to every employee.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
J
16-2
F. HOLIDAY
1.	The annual school calendar as approved by the governing board shall identify the holidays and board declared recess days to be observed in the District.
a.	Employees shall not be required to work on any board declared holiday or recess day as identified in the annual school calendar.
b.	If an employee is on the District payroll (i.e., either at work or on an approved leave of absence with pay) on both the last workday immediately preceding and the first workday immediately following a holiday or board-declared employee recess period as identified in the board approved school calendar for the* year, the employee’s compensation will not be diminished because of the holiday or board declared recess period.
c.	If an employee is not on the District payroll (e.g., on a leave of absence without pay either because the leave days for which the employee is eligible has been exhausted or because the employee is on a board approved leave of absence without pay) on the last day prior to or the first workday immediately following a holiday or board declared employee recess period as identified in the board approved school calendar for the year, that employee shall receive no compensation for the holiday or the board-declared employee recess period.
2.	When New Year’s Day, Independence Day, Veterans Day, or Christmas fall on Saturday, the holiday will be granted on Friday. When any of these designated holidays fall on Sunday the holiday will be granted on Monday.
a.	Those employees whose regular workweek is other than Monday through Friday will be granted either Saturday or Sunday off for these holidays when they fall on a weekend.
b.	Those employees whose regular workweek does not include Monday will be granted the proceeding Saturday or Sunday off if one of these four holidays falls on a Monday.
3.	Should one (1) or more of these holidays occur during an employee’s vacation, the employee will be given an additional day’s vacation with pay, in accord with the vacation provision.
4.	With prior approval of the immediate supervisor, earned vacation or compensatory time may be taken before, during, or after recess periods.	,
5.	The hours of employees working December 24 and 31 will be adjusted so that no employee will be working after 5:00 p.m., if approved by the immediate supervisor.
6.	Use qf a leave day (s) for personal . business on the last scheduled workday, before and/ or the first scheduled workday after any holiday, board declared recess period, . or vacation will be granted only in the most unusual circumstances.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
16-3
G. VACATIONS
1.	Permanent employees under contract on a 12-month assignment who are eligible to receive benefits shall accrue paid vacation as follows:
Days Earned per Days/Hours
Service Credit	Four Weeks	Per Year
One through three continuous years	0.77	10/80
Four through eight continuous years	1.15	15/120
Nine continuous years or more	1 77	23/184
The 10 days of vacation, or portion thereof, will be taken after each of the first three years of employment. The 15 days will be taken after completion of the fourth through the eighth year of employment, and the 23 days after completion of the ninth year and thereafter
2.	Vacations may be taken for any reason, employees do not have to give a reason for the vacation request, however request must be in writing, using e-mail or the standard forms available in the supervisors’ office. Responses indicating either approval or disapproval will be returned to the. employee promptly. If the employee has not been advised in writing of the approval or denial prior to the starting time of the vacation it will be considered approved. Employees may submit request for vacations utilizing the time frame shown below:
1	or 2 days vacation	at least 2-work days prior notification
3	or 4 days vacation	at least 4 workdays notification
5	days or more taken consecutively	at least 5 work days notice
These are recommended guidelines and are to be utilized unless a shorter notice is accepted by the administrator or deemed an emergency.
3.	Based on the needs of the district, department/division managers/supervisors may identify certain time periods during which employees may not take vacation. However, the department supervisor may not restrict more than 20 days in a school year. Notification of the restricted days must be provided to the employee in writing by July 1 of each School year. Extenuating circumstances can cause a change then the alternate days will be provided as soori as known. Copies of the restricted days must be sent to the Employee Relations office and the President of CEA.
41 Employees whose work year is less than 12 months receive no paid vacation. Twelve-month employees initially beginning work prior to January 1 will receive a prorated vacation at the end of that fiscal year and will be given credit for 1 year’s service in computing his/her service time for his/her vacation. Employees initially beginning work after January 1 will receive a prorated vacation at the end of that
!	fiscal year, but will not receive a year’s service credit. The fiscal year is July 1 through Juiie 30.
5.	When the vacation period of an employee includes a paid holiday, an additional day’s vacation will be granted with pay, in lieu of the holiday.
6.	When an employee, whose work year is less than 12 months, is changed to a 12 month position, on a permanent basis, the first vacation amount will be prorated from the date of that employee’s regular starting date of that school year through June 30, at the applicable accrual rate based upon number of continuous years of service credit as defined in Paragraph 1 above, and as determined by seniority in accordance with Section 23.
When an employee, whose work year is 12 months is changed to a less than 12 month position, on a permanent basis, the vacation due that employee will be prorated from the beginning date of the 12 month contract through the date the employee assumes the less than 12 month position at the applicable accrual rate based upon the number of continuous years of service credit as defined in paragraph 1 above, and as determined by seniority in accordance with Section 23.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
16-4
When this occurs the employee will receive payment for the accrued unused vacation at the end of the contract year in which the change in length of work year occurred. The vacation may not be held to be taken during the next year.
7.	When an employee, whose work year is less than 12 months, is changed to a 12 month position on an acting basis, vacation will be prorated from the date the employee assumed the acting assignment through June 30 of that year at the applicable accrual rate, based upon number of continuous years of service credit as defined in paragraph 1 of this Section. If the employee does not remain in the acting assignment through June 30, no vacation will be earned.
8.	Employees in a probationary status who terminate, voluntarily or involuntarily, are riot eligible to receive accrued vacation at time of termination.
9.	An employee of more than 90 workdays of service who terminates voluntarily or involuntarily will receive payment for accrued unused vacation at time of termination.	:
10.	For some 12-month positions which are funded from non-local fund budgets there is no guarantee of continuous non-local funding from one year to the next. For employees in these positions it is mandatory that the earned vacation be taken during the non-local funded grant's fiscal year.
11.	Employees who have exhausted all leave days have, the option to have time lost due to illness charged to vacation by providing a doctor's statement if the administrative supervisor so requests.
12.	All vacation earned between July 1 and June 30 of each year must be used prior to June 30 of the following fiscal year or an amount of unused vacation not to exceed . ten (10) days may be added to the employees leave days.
H.	PUHSD EARLY RETIREMENT PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
1.	After ten (10) consecutive years of full-time service in the Phoenix Union High School District and achievement of age 50, an employee who opts to take retirement prior to age 65 will be eligible for participation in the early retirement part-time employment program until the end of the year during which s/he reaches age 65.
2.	Employees choosing to participate will serve as substitutes or perform other appropriate duties for the agreed-upon period. Employment under this program must be part-time (less than half of the regular full-time assignment) so the employee may draw state retirement pension.
3.	The employee will sign an agreement to work for a ten-day period during any one-year period. The employee will be paid at 90% of the employee’s last rate of pay. No employee may work more than ten (10) days during any one-year period, calendar or < fiscal, at that rate of pay. Any work performed beyond that time will be paid in accordance with one of the following options.
a.	Early retirees filling a critical vacancy for ten (10) or moire consecutive days will be paid as follows:
i.	Having met the ten (10) day requirement as an early retiree will be paid at Step 1 for the range of the assignment or the range held prior to retirement which ever is greater. Effective on the eleventh (11) day their pay will change to Step 4 for that range.
ii.	Early retired employees who have not met the ten (10) day requirement shall be paid at 90% of the employee's last rate of pay, effective on the eleventh (11) day their pay will change to Step 4 for the range of the assignment or the range held prior to retirement which ever is greater.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
16-5
b.	All other vacancies after that initial 10 days will be paid at Step 1 for the range of the assignment or the range they last held prior to retirement whichever is greater.
c.	No early retiree may exceed the limitations mandated by the Arizona State Retirement System.
4.	Once an employee elects to participate in the program, s/he may not return to regular employment in the District, nor may they receive any benefits (e.g. leave days, vacation, holiday pay etc.)
5.	Employees choosing to participate in the early retirement program will be assured of annual renewal until the end of the year in which they reach age 65 as long as they meet the conditions of the agreement of the previous year unless evidence is presented showing a physical or medical incapability for such performance.
6.	Those entering the early retirement program must work at least one (1) day per year to be eligible to continue the following year.
7.	The employee may drop participation at any time s/he so requests in writing to the Employee Relations office, in which case s/he cannot return to the program.
8.	This agreement is subject to the applicable laws and regulations of the state of Arizona, the lawful rules and regulations of the Arizona State Board of Education, and the rules and regulations of the Phoenix Union High School District.
9.	Early retirees will receive health insurance coverage under the following provisions
a.	Employees who enter the early retirement program prior to 7/1/03 and who also are receiving state retirement will have two options: (a) moving to the Arizona State Retirement System (ASRS) plan with the District paying the premium of the lowest cost plan (without adjustment for where the retiree lives) minus the ASRS subsidy, (b) staying on the District’s plan with the retiree paying the difference between the cost of the District plan retiree rate and the lowest cost plan of the ASRS.
b.	Employees who enter the early retirement program on or after 7/1/03 and who also are receiving state retirement would be on the ASRS plan and the District who would pay the premium of the lowest cost ASRS plan (without adjustment for where the retiree lives) minus the ASRS subsidy.
c.	Employees who take (took) early retirement from PUHSD but do (did) not retire with ASRS, and who are not eligible for subsidized medical coverage through another employer, will have the option of staying on the District plan with the retiree paying the difference between the cost of the District plan retiree rate and the lowest cost plan of the ASRS. After the employee enters state retirement, those who entered early retirement before 7/1/03 will be covered by the provisions of paragraph 1, above. Those who enter early retirement after 7/1 /03 will be covered by paragraph 2, above.
d.	Employees who took early retirement prior to 7/1 /03 and who reside out of state will pay the same amount toward their coverage as a pre 7/1/03 early retiree who resides in state and chose to stay on the District plan. The District would pay any remaining premium cost.
e.	Once an eligible early retiree opts out of coverage under the District health plan, he/she cannot elect to return to coverage under the District health plan. The person will cohtihUe to receive all other benefits under the early retirement program, including payment of ASRS health plan premiums.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
16^5
SECTION
17
Retirement
Full-time classified employees are members of the Arizona State Retirement System/Plan and subject to the rules and regulations of the Arizona State Retirement Board
Application to participate must be submitted to the Employee Relations Office prior to April 1, if retirement is planned as of the end of the school year, or at least three (3) months prior to planned retirement at any other time during the school year. The effective retirement date will be the beginning of the month following retirement.
The District will continue to pay the annual premium of the health and major medical plans offered and the entire cost of the life insurance plan. The premium for the health and major medical plans will be paid for at the same rate as is paid for all other employees. The District will pay the premium until the end of the year during which s/he reaches age 65. Dependent coverage under the plan will also continue to be available by similar advance monthly payments to the Payroll Department.
NORMAL RETIREMENT ARS §38-757
A member is eligible to receive full retirement benefits upon reaching a normal retirement date. The normal retirement date occurs at one of the earliest following conditions:
•	at or after age 65 with any number of years of credited service
•	at or after age 62 with ten or more years of credited service
•	at or after any age and combination of years of credited service totaling 80 points.
Early Retirement Part-time Employment Program information is in Section 16-H.
All employees are eligible for Federal Social Security benefits.
17-1
7/00
SECTION
18
Leaves of Absence
A.	LEAVE DAYS
1.	Paid leave days may be used for personal illness or injury, family illness, parental obligations, family death or personal business.
2.	During each fiscal year, each permanent employee shall earn leave days at the rate of one (1) day for each twenty (20) coritract/addendum contract days, or major, fraction thereof, up to a maximum of thirteen (13) leave days per year, plus two (2) additional days will be provided to each classified employee each school year, except for probationary employees. While in a probationary status the employee shall earn ' leave days at the rate of one (1) day for each twenty (20) contract days, or major fraction thereof, and only the amount based on this aceruaJ rate will be available.
i.	At the beginning of each contract year a minimum of thirteen (13) days of leave will be available for use by each twelve (12) month regular employee, eleven (11) days for ten (10) month employees, and ten (10) days for nine (9) month employees. An employee must be on duty the first day of his/her work year, or on an excused absence, to be eligible for this advance.
ii.	Those employees that are in a no pay status at the erid of any school year (other than employees on an approved health leave of absence or on a family medical leave act absence) will earn their leave days as defined above for probationary employees.
iii.	Employees who use three (3) leave days or less per contract year will have an additional two (2) leave days credited to their leave days account. Donated days will not affect an employee’s eligibility.
iv.	No more than five (5) days may be used each semester for non-illness related reasons without prior approval
v.	If :an employee leaves the employ of the school district before the end of the school year during which this advance would have been earned, s/he will have their final paycheck reduced by the amount of pay received for leave days used but riot yet eafiied. If a disability period is known in advance (e g., scheduled surgery, childbirth), the employee shall notify the Principal, Educatiorial Unit Administrator, Director, or Division Manager, as appropriate, rind the Employee Relations Office as soon as possible so that arrangements for a substitute may be made. This notice shall be submitted ...	on the appropriate form, indicating the beginning and ending date of the
disability period. The employee’s personal physician must sign the form. If F	circumstances require a change in. estimated disability period, a revised form
shall be submitted, also signed by the employee’s personal, physician. The unused portion of such allowance shall accumulate from year to year
7	without limitation. When ain employee runs out of accumulated leave days, s/he will be taken Off the payroll.
Upon exhaustion of leave/vacation days, the employee must either request a leave of absence or submit a letter of resignation, in accord with Paragraph B of this section.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
18-1
3.	In order to qualify for paid leave days, as provided above, the employee’s illness or disability must be such as to prevent him/her from working his/her regular classification of work. Upon exhaustion of leave days, the employee may use accrued vacation days(see section 16-G-ll). At any time after an employee has used three (3) days of leave for health reasons in a semester, the employee may be required by the Superintendent or designee, if they have reason to believe the employee misused the policy, to present a! physician’s statement as proof of such illness or injury to self or family. Additionally, the employee may be required to have a health examination by the District Medical Advisor. The employee shall be notified of this requirement in writing, including a statement citing just cause and a copy of this notification shall be sent to the CEA President. In the event it can be shown that the employee willfully violated or misused this leave policy or misrepresented any statement or condition under this policy, s/he may be subject to discipline.
4.	Leave days may be used for illness or disability of the employee. The employee may use half of the leave days available to him/her up to a maximum of twenty (20) days per school year for the serious illness or disability of his/her immediate family (husband/wife or children).
i.	The employee may, if more time is needed for an extended illness, appeal to the Employee Relations Office to use more of his/her available leave days.
ii.	When the employee goes on a leave of absence in accord with Paragraph B of this section, for reason other than health leave, the position held by the employee at the time the leave commences will be filled on a temporary basis if recommended by the appropriate administrator and approved by the Employee Relations Office.
iii.	An employee shall be allowed a leave of absence not to exceed five (5) days during any one (1) year to be charged to leave days when such absence is due to serious illness of the employee’s father, mother, brother, sister, brother-inlaw, sister-in-law, father or mother of spouse, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchild, foster parent, or dependent person (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code).
iv.	In addition to the above, travel time in connection with the absence due to serious illness in the employee’s family, not to exceed five (5) school days in any one (1) year, may be charged against leave days. This applies only when the travel itself requires absence during regular work hours.
v.	The employee may submit a request to the Employee Relations Office for additional days because of unusual circuiiistances.
5.	Only the portion of a maternity leave, including adoption; which relates to the disability period for an employee may be charged to.accrued leave days. In the event that an employee does not have sufficient accrued leave days to cover the disability period^.s/he' may request a leave of absence without pay to coyer the remaining
, j^riidhbf thedisabilityperiod.	.	.
i.	If the employee wants additional time beyond the disability period to care for - the child,: s/he will submit a request for a leave of absence without pay, with the request being rioted asfamily. This will be treated as a personal leave of absencewithbutpay.
ii.	The employee has the. option of requesting a health leave of absence without pay to include the period of disability if the employee wishes to save the leave days.
7/00 (revised 8/03)
18-2
6.	Employees who have exhausted their leave/vacation days and are having absences due to personal illness, to the extent that their job is suffering, may be required to have a health examination by the District medical advisor at the expense of the District to determine if the employee should continue work or take a health leave of absence as recommended by the examining physician. The Employee Relations Division must approve the examination requirement.
7.	Donation of Leave Days	.	;
a.	A classified employee who has depleted his/her leave days may request access to the “Leave Assistance Program” by submitting a medical leave assistance program request form to the Superintendent or designee requesting donations of leave days from other classified employees so their income can continue during an extended period of absence of five consecutive days or more. Donated leave days are intended for the use of the employee only to compensate for days missed due to personal or family illness.
Leave days for family illness are available through the Federal Family Medical Leave Act.
b.	The donor-classified employee may donate leave days only if he/she has thirty (30) or more days of accumulated leave days. The donor-classified employee may donate no more than ten (10) days of leave days in any contract year. The donor-classified employee will designate the donation in the name of the classified employee to receive the donation. Donation days do not count against the donating employee’s eligibility under section 18.A.2.e.
c.	If more days than are needed are donated to the receiving classified employee, the extra days shall be returned to the donor classified employee.
d.	No classified employee shall be eligible for the Leave Days Assistance Program after he/she qualifies for the supplemental disability program.
8.	Family and Medical Leave Act
a.	A classified employee who (A) has been employed for at least one (1) year by the Phoenix Union High School District and (B) has at least 1250 hours of service during the previous 12-monthperiod is eligible for family and medical leave as outlined in the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
b.	All classified employees who meet the applicable time of service requirements shall be granted upon request family or medical leave consisting of unpaid leave for a period of twelve (12) weeks (during any 12-month period). The classified employee should consult the District if they wish to substitute any accrued paid leave for any part of the twelve-week period.
i.	Leave shall be granted for the following reasons:	/
a. The birth of a child in order to care for the child.
c.	Adoption or foster placement of a child. The entitlement to leave for birth or placement of a child for adoption or foster care will expire twelve (12) months from the date of the birth or placement.
d.	To. care for a spouse, child, or parent who has a serious health condition.
e.	A serious health condition that fenders the classified employee incapable of performing the functions Of his/her job.
i.	During a period of family or medical leave, an employee will be retained on the District health plan under the same conditions that applied before the leave commenced. Procedures and required documentation for leave requests shall be in accordance with District polices and the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act, Section 103 (1993).
7/00 (revised 8/03)
18-3
B.	LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
1.	General
a,	Any employee who must be absent without pay for any period must request a leave of absence without pay or submit a resignation. To do otherwise is a breach of contract. This also applies to employees who have exhausted their leave days/vacation allowances. A health leave of absence without pay must be requested, to be effective as soon as the leave days/ allowance is exhausted, or the employee must resign^ If at any time prior to reaching a no pay status the employee believes he/she will go into a no pay status, the employee may request in writing to the appropriate site administrator with supporting rational, a two day no pay extension. The site administrator may grant such an extension based on extenuating circumstances. Once an employee is in a no pay status they have two (2) work days to contact the Employee Relations Office (Director of Classified Employees) of his/her intent, i.e., request leave of absence or resign. If the employee does not contact the Employee Relations Office a certified letter will be sent to the employee stating the rules and regulations and what further action will be taken. An employee who does not obtain a leave of absence or < submit a resignation may be terminated. Minimum due process will be given all classified employees that fall in this status.
b.	All requests for leaves of absence without pay shall be applied for in writing, using the appropriate form, and the request may riot exceed one (1) year. Only requests for leaves of absence without pay as permitted in this section will be considered.
c.	No request for a leave of absence without pay will be processed unless it has the signed approval of the Principal, Educational Unit Administrator, Director, or Division Manager (as appropriate). If recommended, it will be submitted to the Superintendent by way of the Employee Relations Office.
d.	If the leave of absence request is recommended by all parties concerned, the Superintendent will submit the request to the Governing Board for action with his recommendation.
e.	A disapproval of a requested leave of absence without pay may be appealed only to the Superintendent or Designee.
f.	Those who have requested leaves of absence without pay will be informed in writing as to the disposition of the request.
g.	A leave bit absence without pay other than a health leave shall be for a period of one (1) semester or one (1) school year so as to interfere as little as possible with the instructional process. Any reqiiest for a period1 of time other than these will be considered only in yeiy unusual circumstances. If an eligible employee wishes to extend the leave beyond the original period granted, another written application must tie submitted.	.
h.	Leaves of absence without pay beyond one (1) work year are not permitted except for employeeson health leave Or elected tb public office.
i. A classified employee who is granted a health leave of absence for a period up to one (1) work year will be considered for that period as a member of the staff of • the school or division where s/he was assigned at the time the leave was granted. Such leave will not break the continuity of service of the employee involved. The employee will be returned to his/her former assignment, and the individual employed or transferred as a replacement for the employee on leave will be employed or transferred onfy for the duration of the period of the leave, and will besbinformed iri writing:
7/00 (revised 8/03)
18-4
j.	If a classified employee is granted a health leave of absence beyond one (1) year, upon availability for duty, the employee will be placed in the first vacancy in the District for which the employee returning from the extended leave is qualified. The employee will have the option to be reinstated to his/her former position held at the location at the time the leave commenced, if the opening occurs within the first six (6) months after returning to work.
k.	Employees on leave of absence eligible for an extension of leave beyond one (1) year must request the extension in writing, or indicate in writing by March 15 that they are returning from leave as scheduled. If this is not done, no contract will be issued nor will consideration be given to extending the leave.
1. Leaves of absence without pay for any reason other than health, maternity, or adoption will not be granted to employees with less than three- (3) years* continuous employment except in unusual circumstances.
1.	If the leave is granted, all rights of retirement, accrued leaves with pay, salary increments, seniority, and other benefits provided by law shaU be preserved and available to the employee after the termination of the leave of absence.
m.	Three (3) consecutive years is the maximum length of time for any leave of absence.
2.	Health Leave of Absence
a.	An employee who is unable to work because of personal illness or disability may request a leave of absence without pay on the appropriate form. Any employee who has exhausted his/her leave days/vacation allowance must apply for a health leave of absence or resign to avoid a breach of contract.
b.	A certificate from a physician certifying the nature of the illness or disability must be attached to the request form.
c.	Leave must be used as required by the program in order to qualify for long-term disability benefits. The conditions of the insurance policy will apply upon acceptance of the disability by the insurance company. A leave of absence request must be submitted when leave days have been exhausted.
d.	An employee who is injured while on duty and covered by Industrial Commission insurance will not be granted a health leave of absence until his/her leave days are exhausted or until the employee becomes eligible for coverage under the long-term disability insurance program, whichever comes first. An employee who is absent because of an injury while on duty must either be on the payroll and receiving leave days pay or be granted a health leave of absence in conjunction with long-term disability or separate from it.
e.	If an employee is granted permission from his/her doctor, with concurrence from the District Medical Advisor (if deemed necessary) to return to work during the period of the leave of absence already granted, s/he will be returned to work only if a vacancy exists for which the employee is qualified. If an employee is limited tp light duty upon release from his/her doctor, the employee may return to work if the immediate supervisor agrees that there is a lighter productive assignment the employee may perform. This requires the prior approval of the Principal (or designee) or the Director or Division Manager of a CES or DSF Division, and/or the appropriate Assistant Superintendent. The period of lighter productive assignment shall not exceed twenty (20) workdays. Pay will be for the position assumed upon return from leave.
f.	A health leave of absence will not be granted for more than one (1) year at a time, although requests for shorter periods will be considered.
7/00 (revised 8/03)
18-5
g.	Any extension of a health leave of absence beyond one (1) year requires the submission of a new request form by March 15 of each year, and a new physician’s certification except for an employee certified as permanently disabled, whose leave will be recommended for extension by the Employee Relations Office upon receipt of the request for extension.
h.	An annual review of all employees who are on health leave and are not planning to return to duty will occur. The assistance of the District Medical Advisor may be sought if deemed necessary.
i.	Health and major medical insurance coverage is continued for an employee who has been granted a health leave of absence during the period of the leave, not to exceed twelve (12) months.
j.	Long-term disability benefits continue as long as disability continues to age 65.
k.	Disabled employees are eligible for Social Security benefits at the beginning of the sixth month of disability if the disability can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months.
1.	Medicare benefits are available to disabled employees who have been eligible to receive Social Security benefits for two (2) consecutive years or more. This means a person must be disabled for twenty-nine (29) consecutive months before being eligible for Medicare.
3.	Leave of Absence Without Pay for Personal Reasons
a. Requests for leaves of absence may be submitted on the appropriate form for any of the following:
i.	For the adoption of a child.
ii.	To care for a sick member of the employee’s immediate family.
iii.	To one (1) employee designated by the representative group to engage in local, state, or national association activity.
iv.	To campaign for or serve in a city, county, state, or national elected office.
v.	To serve in the Peace Corps, or similar government-approved activity.
vi.	Other requests, such as those based on family problems other than illness, stresses inherent in the job, or other personal problems, will be considered on their merit. Although not limited to these, factors to be considered include:	.
a)	Nature of the request.	......	.. ’
b)	Length of service in District.	■
c)	Previous leaves of absence.
d)	Effect on educational program.	........
b Except for a Peace Corps or similar assignment, or for an elected office, these leaves of absence will be for periods of one (1) semester Or one (1) work year only, with a maximum of one (1) year.
.... c. Board Policy 6.46 P pertains to employees seeking elected office. It reads as follows:
6.46 P Employees Seeking Elected Office
An employee of the Phoenix Union High School District may seek an elected office in a political subdivision; but, if elected, the employee must take a leave of absence without pay for the period of elected service when rendering no service to the school district, or the employee may sign a partial contract
7/00 (revised 8/03)
18*6
covering only the period of time during which the employee is serving the District directly. An employee can continue with the District as a full-time employee with Juli pay as long as s/he is giving the equivalent time to the school district.
An employee who has become a candidate for elected office shall in no way use District time, materials, personnel, or property to promote his/her candidacy.
d.	The appropriate request form must be used and the reason and justification for the request must be spelled out in some detail.
e.	Since it is not possible to list all the different possibilities, a few of the more frequent requests only will be addressed:
i.	If the employee assumes employment out of the District, it is not justifiable for a leave of absence and will not be recommended.
ii.	If the employee’s spouse accepts employment outside of the immediate area, a request for a leave of absence will not be recommended.
iii.	A request for a leave of absence without pay to attend school on a full-time basis is appropriate only if it is to improve performance. Consideration will also be given to attend schools, which provide training in a related career field for which employment opportunities are currently available in the District. If it is to prepare for a new career outside of District employment opportunities, a request for leave should not be submitted. If the employee has full-time employment and will attend school only part-time, a leave is not appropriate.
f.	Eligible employees will be granted personal leaves of absence only in unusual circumstances.
g.	The request for such leave should be submitted as far in advance of the departure date as possible to permit filling the vacancy in a timely manner.
C.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
An employee shall be allowed a bereavement leave of absence not to exceed five (5) days during one (1) year to be charged to leave days. This leave must be approved by the Principal, Educational Unit Supervisor, Division Manager, or Director.
If additional days are needed for the bereavement leave, or if a second bereavement leave is needed, a request must be submitted to the Principal; Educational Unit Supervisor, Division Manager, or Director for his/her approval, identifying the number of days needed and the pertinent circumstances.
In addition to the above, travel time in connection with the bereavement leave1, not to . exceed five (5) . school days in any one (1) Year> may be charged against leave days/vacation leave. This applies only when the travel itself requires absence during regular work hours.
D.	TEMPORARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE TO MEET PROFESSIONAL OBLIGATIONS
The Board recognized that participation by employees in the activities of professional organizations, through services on committees, boards, and commissions, as well as the continuation of their education, contribute to the professional growth of the staff and to the improvement of instruction.
Upon approval by the Principal/Administrative Supervisor, on the district leave form available in the principal office, temporary leave with pay, may be granted to an employee where the reason is
1. Participation in a legitimate, bona fide professional duty:
7/00 (revised 8/03)
18-7
2.	Attendance at an educational conference or workshop in which the content is directly related to the employee’s position or assignment; or
3.	Attendance at conferences or workshops sponsored by a professional education association as an official delegate of the Classified Employees Association.
The request shall be submitted to the Principal/Administrative Supervisor at least two (2) weeks prior to the requested days of absence, if possible. Such leave requested during the opening three (3) weeks of school, the closing week of any semester, the opening week of any other semester, and the closing two (2) weeks of the school year will be granted only in the most unusual circumstances. All leaves of absence granted under this section shall be in units of full days or half days.
E.	RELEASE TIME FOR CEA BUSINESS
The Association shall be granted release time, as the Association deems necessary for the purpose of conducting association business at no loss of salary or other benefits. The number of days granted shall be 100 days per year. The CEA President shall inform the Superintendent or designee of the person(s) and reason/activity for which release time will be granted.
These days will be utilized for conferences and for conducting all other business pertinent the Association’s role as the bargaining representative.
The appropriate administrator/supervisor will be advised by the Superintendent or designee of the absence one (1) week prior to the absence, if possible.
F.	MILITARY LEAVE
Military leaves of absence shall be granted by the Board to an employee in accordance with existing state and federal statutes.
G.	JURY DUTY OR OFFICIAL SUBPOENA LEAVE
Employees who are required to serve on jury duty or to appear in court during their normal work hours in response .to an official subpoena will receive full salary during the period of such service, subject to the deduction from their regular pay an amount equal to the compensation paid them for such duty exclusive of mileage reimbursement.
An employee who must appear in any legal proceedings connected with his/her employment with the School District may be absent without loss of pay for that cause, if the employee is required to attend.
H.	NATURAL DISASTER
If a liatural disaster makes it impossible for ah employee to report for work, the Board may provide additional day(s) of personal leave with pay for the enforced absehces(s).
I.	MINIMUM LEAVE OF ABSENCE CHARGED
All leaves of absence granted under this section shall be in units of full days or half . daySi
7/00 (revised 8/03)
18-8
SECTION
19
EVALUATION/PERFORMANCE
REVIEW, AND REMEDIATION PLAN
A.	GENERAL
1.	Evaluation content is not grievable.
2.	Copies of evaluation shall be provided to the employee within five (5) workdays. The evaluator and the Employee Relations Office shall retain a copy for inclusion in the employee’s file.
3.	The purpose of an evaluation shall be to:
a.	Improve each employee’s understanding of his/her job;
b.	Encourage each employee’s development for better job performance;
c.	Aid administration in the selection process;
d.	Provide safeguards of objectivity and fairness in personnel assignment.
4.	An employee in the Remediation procedure is not eligible either to apply for a new position in the district or for voluntary transfer even though a request for transfer has been submitted per the transfer procedure.
5.	Remediation documentation regarding unsatisfactory performance shall be removed from the employee's personnel file after three (3) years without a reoccurrence of the same unsatisfactory performance.
6.	Classified employees maybe evaluated at any time in their contract year. Every Classified employee must be evaluated prior to the end of his/her contract each year. Any evaluation requiring remediation must have an initial formal evaluation completed by April 1.
B.	FORMAL EVALUATION/PERFORMANCE REVIEW
1.	An employee receives a formal evaluation under the following circumstances:
a.	He/she requests it (no more than once every three years or
b.	The evaluator elects to conduct a formal evaluation if he/she believes the employee should be placed on a remediation plan).
2.	The administrator and immediate supervisor;will meet with the employee and orally review the evaluation. -
3.	The evaluation form will be in writing and signed by the ^thployee, administrator conducting the evaluation and if applicable the ihimediafe supervisor. Tne employee is to receive a copy of the evaluation within five (5) Workdays?
4.	The employee may attach any statement(s) or item(s) of information to the evaluation within ten (10) workdays from the date of the receipt of the evaluation.
5.	Formal evaluations are not grievable, but the employee being evaluated may claim personal bias or conflict of interest prior to the-evaluation process; S/he may appeal first to the Principal/Immediate Supervisor or the Director of Classified Personnel if against the Principal/Unit Administrator. The second and final appeal is to the Superintendent or Designee. However, the evaluation process including time lines will be continued.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
19-1
6.	If procedures are violated, s/he may file a grievance and follow the grievance procedures as outlined in the Classified Employees Handbook.
7.	If an employee is rated as needs improvement in the same indicator(s) on three (3) . consecutive formal evaluations, the, rating of needs improvement can be changed by the administrator tb unsatisfactory oh the third dvaluation if deemed necessary.
C.	INFORMAL EVALUATION	.	...
1.	A minimum of one informal evaluation of each employee will be completed each contract year. (Unless a formal evaluation is scheduled to be done).
2.	A meeting will be scheduled with the evaluator(s) and employee to conduct the informal evaluation. The informal evaluation form will be in writing and signed by the employee, and the evaluator(s) conducting the evaluation. The employee is to receive a copy of the evaluation within five (5) workdays.
3.	The employee is to sign the informal evaluation form and may attach any statement(s) or item(s) of information to the informal evaluation form within ten (10) workdays after receiving the informal evaluation.	.
4.	The employee or the evaluator may request a formal evaluation after any informal evaluation.
5.	A formal evaluation will be held no sooner than ten (10) Workdays after the informal evaluation.
D.	REMEDIATION PLAN
1.	The purpose of the Classified Remediation Plan shall be:
a.	To encourage employees to become more effective and productive by giving the employee direction or assistance needed for improvement-
b.	To increase or improve the employee’s skills or service level, and
c.	To avoid possible termination.	.
2.	The following procedures will be used in improving levels of performance:
a.	The Classified Remediation Plan is MANDATED when “unsatisfactory" has been identified on two (2) or more indicators on the Classified Formal Evaluation document.
b.	If after two (2) consecutive formal evaluations ah employee is rated as unsatisfactory in the same indicator- on the third consecutive formal evaluation, the employee can be placed on a remediation plan.
c.	After a formal evaluation in which performance . isunsatisfactory, the Administrator will initiate, within 10 workdays, the Classified Remediation Plan. The employee choosing to use the Classified Assistance Team will be given at least two (2) workdays to identify the team members. The employee will' submit to the evaluator |he names of the people s/he assembled to participate on the team. The Classified Assistance Team may consist of one or both of the following members choseh by the employee: CEA President and/or his/her designee; one (1) peer that has held the employee’s position at one time during
• employment with the District and who is-not on a remediation plan.
d.	The Remediation Plan shall be developed jointly by the Administrator, immediate supervisor, the employee, and, where applicable, an optional Classified Assistance Team. The plan will include ALL indicators identified as < “Unsatisfactory" or“Needs Improvement”. ;	■	;
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
19-2
e.	The Administrator and the optional Classified Assistance Team will indicate to the employee on the Remediation Plan Form, what corrective steps must be taken. The employee must maintain all other indicators at or above the Meets Standards (Basic) level, to include those identified as “Needs Improvement”. The Remediation Plan will provide a time period of not less than 25 workdays in which performance must improve.
•	Suggested interventions to bring about improvement and performance may include, but are not limited to:
•	University/college classes
•	District Professional Growth classes
•	Instructional training sessions
•	Peer mentoring
The Classified Assistance Team may provide assistance.
At the end of the time period provided for improvement the employee will be called in by the administrator and immediate supervisor for a review conference or formal evaluation.
If the employee’s performance is identified as Meets Standards or above in all indicators, a formal evaluation will be completed and the employee will be taken off the Remediation Plan.
If the employee’s performance does not Meet Standards in all indicators the administrator, immediate supervisor and the employee will meet. If desired, the employee may request the same Classified Assistance Team to review the plan and make recommendations of changes as needed. The employee will again be given not less than 25 workdays to make the identified improvements.
At the end of this additional time period the administrator and immediate supervisor will meet with the employee and conduct a formal evaluation. If the employee performance is identified at Meets Standards or above on all indicators they will be taken off the Remediation Plan. If the employee’s performance does not Meet Standards in all indicators recommendation for termination shall be made to the Assistant Superintendent for Employee Relations or designee in accord with the employee conduct/discipline handbook.
If within one calendar year after completion of a. Remediation Plan, repeat occurrences of unsatisfactoiy performance are documented on a formal evaluation form, the employee will be placed on a second Remediation Plan starting with the second (2nd) 25 day time period. The employee successfully completing this second remediation plan must remain satisfactory for one calendar year exclusive of leave days or face possible termination.
Final due process will be granted in accordance with the employee conduct/discipline handbook if termination is recommended.
The employee is to receive and sign a copy of the performance evaluation form and/or the Remediation Plan within five (5) workdays in each of the steps above. If the employee refuses to sign the forms at any of the steps, the Administrator will so note, sign and date the form(s) and distribute.
In addition to the normal distribution of copies of the evaluation form, the employee may elect to send a copy of the Remediation Plan and the evaluation to the CEA President at any and/or all steps of the procedure.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
19-3
SECTION
20
Job Description Review
A.	JOB DESCRIPTIONS
1.	Job descriptions will be used for one or more of the following purposes: recruiting, compensation, and evaluation. Job descriptions for all positions are maintained by the district. All job descriptions identify general duties of each position and are applicable to the entire classification, not just to a specific individual.
2.	Job descriptions must be on file in the Employee Relations Division for every job categoiy listed on the salary schedules. They will be reviewed once every three (3) years by the Superintendent/designee and revised if necessary. When revisions are necessary, the Employee Relations Division will review the revisions with the Classification Review committee.
3.	Copies of all new and revised job descriptions will be sent to the CEA president.
B.	JOB DESCRIPTION REVIEW
1.	All requests for revised job descriptions must be submitted to the Superintendent/designee. Copies of the request(s) for job description review will be provided to the Classification Review Committee.
2.	A job description review is warranted when a significant change in responsibilities has occurred in the required duties of a position. A request may be submitted to the Superintendent/designee by a Division Manager, Director, Educational Unit Administrator, Principal, or other appropriate administrator, or, an employee or group of employees. If the request is received from an employee(s) the request will be forwarded to the appropriate administrator/supervisor for comment and recommendation and returned to Employee Relations.
The request must contain the current description and specific statements as to the significant changes in duties that are regular and continuous. No action will be taken if this information is not included.
3.	The Classification Review Committee will review the requests for job description revisions and may obtain additional information by requesting such from the requester(s) and/or the endorser(s). The Committee may:
a.	Recommend that the job description be accepted as submitted; or,
b.	Recommend changes to the submitted job description; or,
c.	Recommend that the submitted job description duties are contained in an existing job description and that a revised description is not warranted; or,
d.	Recommend that the submitted job description be denied.
4.	Recommendations by the Committee for which there is not unanimous agreement will be identified and a dual recommendation will be submitted to the Superintendent/designee. The Superintendent/designee and the CEA president will meet and review dual recommendations for the purpose of resolution.
5.	Final approved job description revisions will be distributed by the Employee Relations Office.
20-1
7/00
6.	If the request for job description revision is denied, it will be returned to the originator by the committee with a rejection memorandum. The employee has the right to appeal a denial of a job description revision to the Su perintenden t / designee.
C.	NEW JOB DESCRIPTIONS
1.	New job descriptions may be submitted throughout the year.
2.	All new job descriptions will be reviewed by the Classification Review Committee for the purposes specified in B - 3 - a, b, c, d, and for recommendation of placement on the salary schedule. Recommendations for which there is not unanimous agreement will be identified and a dual recommendation will be made. All recommendations are submitted to the Superintendent/designee for final approval.
20-2
7/00
SECTION
21
Wage Adjustment
1.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
The Classification Review Committee shall be comprised of a maximum of four administrators/supervisors appointed by the Superintendent/designee and a maximum of four CEA members appointed by. the CEA President. The Wage Adjustment Committee shall begin meeting in February to give consideration and make recommendations for general wage adjustments. The committee will meet during the year as necessary to make recommendations on salary schedule placement for new job descriptions as provided for in the job description review section.
A wage adjustment results from a general change in the prevailing rate of pay of a position(s) in the surrounding area. Each year this committee will evaluate and compare a number of positions in the district to positions in the Deer Valley, Glendale Union, Mesa, Paradise Valley, Peoria, Tempe Union, and Scottsdale school districts. The positions compared to these school districts will then be compared to other positions in the district.
Recommendations by the committee for wage adjustments for which there is not unanimous agreement will be identified and a dual recommendation will be submitted to the Superintendent/designee. The Superintendent/designee and the CEA President will meet and review dual recommendations for the purpose of resolution.
Final approval for recommended wage adjustments will be made by the Superintendent/designee.. The Superintendent/designee will recommend to the Superintendent the approved wage adjustments and also submit any dual recommendations.
An employee(s) whose position(s) has been adjusted to a higher classification, shall move to the higher classification on the same step or at the hourly rate when there is no step schedule regardless of the amount of the increase.
An employee(s) whose position(s) has been adjusted to a lower classification shall move to the lower classification and be placed on the step of the lower classification which is closest to the rate of pay the employee was on at the higher classification or be placed at the hourly rate of the lower classification when there is no step schedule.
If such placement results in a reduction in pay rate, no downward adjustment will be made for that individual. When this occurs, that individual will continue on or at ■the previous rate of pay with no annual pay adjustments until the adjusted rate catches up or until the person changes to another position.
All approved wage and salary adjustments normally are made as of July 1 of each year.
21-1
7/00
SECTION
22
Reclassification
1.	A reclassification results from a change in the permanent, regular, and ongoing duty requirements of a position(s).
2.	When this has occurred a request for reclassification may be made by submitting a revised job description in accord with Section 20, Job Description Review. The request and the revised job description must be submitted by January 1 of any given year.
3.	Upon approval of the job description an analysis of the description will be made by the Classification Review Committee to determine if a reclassification should be recommended. Recommendations by the committee for reclassifications for which there is not unanimous agreement will be identified and a dual recommendation will be submitted to the Superintendent/designee. The Superintendent/designee and the CEA president will meet and review dual recommendations for the purpose of resolution.
4.	Final approval for recommended reclassification will be made by the Superintendent/designee. The Superintendent/designee will recommend to the Superintendent the approved reclassifications and also submit any dual recommendations.
5.	A reclassification may result in a change in job title and/or job duties with no change in pay.
6.	An employee(s) whose position(s) has been reclassified to a higher classification shall move to the higher classification on the same step or at the hourly rate when there is no step schedule regardless of the amount of the increase.
7.	An employee(s) whose position(s) has been reclassified to a lower classification shall move to the lower classification and be placed on the step of the lower classification which is closest to the rate of pay the employee(s) was on at the higher classification or be placed at the hourly rate of the lower classification when there is no step schedule. If such placement results in a reduction in pay rate, no downward adjustment will be made for that individual(s). When this occurs, that individual(s) will continue on or at the previous rate of pay with no annual pay adjustment until the adjusted rate catches up or until the person(s) changes to another position.
8.	_ A reclassification may be applicable to a single position(s) or to an entire classification.
9.	When there is a person(s) in a position(s) which is reclassified there will be no job posting.
10.	Approved reclassifications normally are made as of July 1 of each year. When circumstances warrant, a reclassification may be made effective at a date other than July 1 with the approval of the Superintendent/designee.
22-1
7/00
SECTION
23
SENIORITY
A.	PRINCIPLE OF SENIORITY
The principle of seniority shall be recognized and considered for job selection, utilized in duty assignments, overtime and to determine placement for all District employees who have completed their probationary period of employment.
1.	Employees hired prior to July 1, 1991: Seniority shall be determined as follows:
a.	Seniority shall be determined by the most recent date of employment within the District in a full-time position as a classified employee. For purposes of this section, full-time shall mean employment under contract of 0.5 or more. Approved leaves of absence, summer breaks, vacations, holidays, or Board declared recess periods do not break continuity of service.
b.	If ties exist, seniority shall first be determined by the date of approval for hire by the Governing Board.
c.	Second, any remaining ties shall be resolved by using the date that the employee signed his/her original contract establishing current full-time continuous employment.
d.	Third, any remaining ties will be resolved by using the date that recommendation for hire as it appears on the original personnel action request (P.A.R.).
e.	Fourth, any remaining ties will be resolved by using the date of application for employment.
f.	Choice by lot, to be decided by mutual agreement by the CEA and administration when needed.
2.	Employees hired July 1, 1991 or after: Seniority shall be determined as follows:
a.	Seniority shall be determined by the most recent date of employment within the District in a full-time position as a classified employee. For purposes of this section, full-time shall mean employment under contract of 0.5 or more. Approved leaves of absence, summer breaks, vacations, holidays, or Board declared recess periods do not break continuity of —	service.
b.	If ties exist, seniority shall first be determined by using the date that recommendation for hire as it appears on the original personnel action request (P.A.R.).
c.	Second, any remaining ties will be resolved by using the date of approval for hire by the Governing Board.
d.	Third, any remaining ties shall be resolved by using the date that the employee signed his/her original contract establishing current full-time continuous employment.
e.	Fourth, any remaining ties will be resolved by using the date of application for employment.
f Choice by lot, to be decided by mutual agreement by the CEA and administration when needed.
23 1
7/00
B.	SENIORITY LIST
1.	District-wide seniority lists shall be compiled and updated each year prior to February 1. Seniority lists shall list each employee by current job title in order of District seniority.
2.	A copy of the seniority lists will be sent to each Principal, Educational Unit Supervisor, Director, Division Manager, and to the President of the Classified Employees Association.
23-2
7/00
SECTION
24
Reduction-in-Force/Surplus
A.	REDUCTION-IN-FORCE
1.	Reduction-in-force is defined as follows:
a.	That situation in which, after all possible reassignments of employees to existing vacancies have been completed, it is necessary for the District to reduce the number of employees.
b.	That situation in which job title(s) that are related to administrative positions) are adjusted downward or eliminated due to a reorganization, reassignment or change affecting an administrator(s).
2.	Reductions-in-force will be by job title(s) according to seniority within the District as defined in Section 23.
3.	Recall and reemployment rights under this section will be in effect for a period of six (6) months after the reduction-in-force. Recall rights will be extended in increments of six (6) months provided the employee contacts the Employee Relations Office, in writing, before the end of each six (6) month period. The six (6) month extensions may be requested, and shall be granted upon request, up to a maximum of three (3) years.
4.	Full-time classified employees who have fulfilled their contract obligations for a full year and who are terminated from the District due to reduction-in-force, shall receive their health and life insurance benefits for the full year (September 30 through August 31).
B.	REDUCTION IN FORCE - PRELIMINARY
1.	An employee who receives a preliminary notice of RIF may have his/her name placed on the seniority list of any job titles that he/she has held on a permanent basis as established by their current seniority date (no break in continuity date). To do this the employee must submit a request to the Employee Relations Division within three (3) work days after initial notification of the pending RIF. Otherwise, the employee’s seniority will be determined only in the current job title.
2.	An employee who receives a preliminary notice of RIF and who has held only ~~	one job title may have his/her name placed on one (1) additional job title
seniority list which is comparable in general duty requirements and which is at the same or lower classification. An employee must be qualified for the position and must provide, in writing to the Employee Relations Office, a statement which indicates his/her specific qualifications as to each qualification statement in the job description.
The employee must meet all qualifications in the job description. Failure to meet all of the qualifications or to provide the information stated above will disqualify the employee from having his/her name placed on the requested job title seniority list.
24-1
7/00
To place your name on an additional job list the employee must submit a written request to the Employee Relations Division within three (3) work days after initial notification of the pending RIF. Otherwise the employee’s seniority will be determined only in the current job title. At the time seniority lists are sent to each unit as stated in Section 23-B,2, employees will be notified as to what action is needed and forms provided concerning requesting placement in another job title.
C.	REDUCTION-IN-FORCE • NOTICE OF TERMINATION DUE TO RIF
1.	Employees to be terminated due to a reduction-in-force will receive written notice as early as possible (normally by April 15), and a list of personnel to be laid off will be sent to the office of the representative group at the same time.
2.	Upon notification of RIF, the affected employee remains officially as a RIF employee until recalled for a maximum time period of three years.
3.	If such reduction is to exceed one percent (1%) of the Classified personnel of the District, the representative group will be notified in writing and its authorized representatives will be consulted before the reduction is effected.
D.	REASSIGNMENT OF SURPLUS EMPLOYEES BASED UPON SENIORITY
1.	Surplus exists when there are more employees in a job title at a given location than are needed.
2.	Surplus employees will be reassigned in the current job title.
3.	RIFed employees who have become surplus due to seniority resulting from having placed his/her name on another seniority list will be surplus and reassigned in that job title.
4.	Surplus employees will be reassigned to specific positions that are open and/or made available by the reduction-in-force.
5.	Surplus employees shall have their choice of the positions available in order of seniority and must make their selection within two (2) work days.
6.	A surplus employee who accepts reassignment to a position different in job title at the same or lower classification, shall remain on the seniority list in his/her former job title from which reassigned and shall retain the right to transfer back to that former job title should a vacancy occur with the fiscal year following the reassignment. Transfer will be based upon seniority and shall include those employees who have been transferred and those former employees who have not been recalled.
7.	Any surplus employee who declines reassignment waives all future reassignment rights and will become a reduction-in-force and then will be eligible for recall in accord with paragraph E. or F., if applicable.
8.	When a decline of reassignment occurs, the next most senior person on the reassignment and/or recall list shall be contacted and given the same choice of positions as given the person declining reassignment.
E.	EMPLOYEES IN SPLIT ASSIGNMENT
1.	Employees in a split assignment are those employees who hold more than one job title simultaneously under contract and whose name appears on more than one job title seniority list.
24-2
7/00
2.	When there is more than one employee in a split assignment with the same job titles and same FTE division, the regular RIF and surplus procedures of this section will apply only to those specific positions.
3.	When there is no other employee in a split assignment with the same job titles and same FTE division, the regular RIF and surplus procedure of this section will apply only to the job title held longest of those job titles held simultaneously. No RIF or surplus rights are applicable to the other job title(s) held under these circumstances.
4.	An employee who was in a split assignment and terminated due to a reductionin-force and awaiting recall, will have recall rights under the regular RIF procedure, only to the job title held the longest of those job titles held simultaneously.
F.	RECALL TO SAME JOB TITLE
1.	An employee terminated due to the reduction-in-force, whose name does not appear on another job title seniority list in accord with Section 23 shall have a preferred right of recall to that single job title in the order of seniority in accord with Section 23.
2.	An employee who was a surplus employee and has become a RIF in accord with paragraph D.7., will not be contacted for recall to that job title until a position(s) other than the originally offered position(s) becomes available.
3.	Declining recall to that single job title waives all future recall rights.
G.	RECALL TO DIFFERENT JOB TITLE
1.	An employee terminated due to a reduction-in-force and awaiting recall, who (1) has held other positions on a permanent basis, and (2) has had his/her name placed on seniority lists in other job titles in accord with Paragraphs D and H, shall have a preferred right of recall in those job titles along with all others in those job titles in the order of seniority in accord with Section 23.
2.	An employee who has his/her name on more than one job title seniority list will be contacted for recall whenever a vacancy occurs in any one of the job titles.
3.	Declining recall to any job title on which the employee’s name appears on the seniority list waives all future recall rights to the specific job title.
4.	A RIFed employee who accepts a recall to a position different in job title at the same or lower classification, shall remain on the seniority list in his/her former job title from which RIFed and shall retain the right to transfer back to that former job title and salary schedule as on at the time of RIF should a vacancy occur within the fiscal year following the RIF. Transfer will be based upon seniority and shall include those employees who have been recalled and those former employees who have not been recalled.
H.	QUALIFIED FOR POSITION
1.	Meets qualifications as identified in job description.
2.	An employee terminated due to a reduction-in-force who has held other positions on a permanent basis and has had his/her name placed on seniority lists shall have a preferred right of recall in those job titles in the order of seniority.
3.	To be eligible for recall to a position at a higher level, the employee must have held the position within the past three (3) years.
24-3
7/00
I.	NOTIFICATION OF RECALL
1.	Employees awaiting recall must leave with the Employee Relations Office a telephone number and address where they may be reached. If contact by telephone cannot be made within two (2) work days, a certified letter will be sent indicating the employee must contact the Employee Relations Office within five (5) days of the date of delivery/attempted delivery of the certified letter ty postal service. If there is no response, that employee will remain on recall status, but will be bypassed on the seniority list and the next senior employee will be contacted.
2.	This bypassed employee remains the most senior on the list and is the first contacted at the next opening.
J.	FILLING OF POSITIONS
1.	No new personnel shall be employed on a permanent basis to any job title for which there are employees awaiting recall.
K.	ADVERTISING OF POSITIONS
1.	Positions for which there are employees awaiting recall will not be advertised.
2.	Current permanent employees who are selected for a position which has been
advertised on a conditional status will continue as permanent employees. Non-district persons selected for a position which has been advertised on a conditional status will be in a conditional employment status.
3.	Reduction-in-force employees awaiting recall who are not covered by Paragraph D or E of this section, and are qualified for the advertised position will be given preference over a non-District applicant.
L.	APPLICATION FOR POSITION(S)
1.	An employee terminated due to the reduction-in-force may apply for any advertised position for which they are qualified.
M.	RECALL RIGHTS FOR REDUCTION-IN-FORCE EMPLOYEES
1. Upon recall, all rights related to salary and fringe benefits shall be restored. Seniority shall accrue while awaiting recall.
“2. Once an employee has been recalled, no further recall consideration will be given and the employee’s name will be removed from all job title recall lists, except that the employee shall retain the rights in G.4.
24-4
7/00
N. CLASSIFIED JOB TITLE CHANGE
CURRENT JOB TITLE
S
PREVIOUS JOB TITLE
Account Clerk
Account Clerk, Senior
Account Technician
Account Technician/Non-Local
Account Technician-Senior Finance
Account Technician-Senior Food Services
Administrative Specialist
Administrative Specialist, Senior/Legal
Administrative Specialist, Senior
Assistant to the Principal
Attendance Residence Specialist
Binder, Printshop
Bookstore Assistant
Bookstore Manager
Budget Assistant
Budget Specialist
Building Maintenance Worker
Building Maintenance Worker Alternative Sites
Building Maintenance Worker/Lead
Bus Assistant
Bus Driver
Bus Service Worker
Cafeteria Manager
Campus Facility Supervisor
Campus Lab Technician
Campus Operations Worker
Campus Technology Specialist
Carpenter
Carpenter / Chief
Central Records Technician
Child Care Assistant
Child Care Assistant/Lead
Child Care Center Director
Community Assistant
Community Liaison
Community Outreach Specialist Community Skills Assistant/MH Competency Based Guidance Assistant Computer Lab Assistant Computer Network Technician Computer Operator/Assistant
Computer Operator/Lead
Computer Repair Technician/Lead Computer Repair Technician/Senior
Legal Assistant Specialist
Bus Aide
Child Care Aide
Child Care Aide/Lead
Community Aide
Dropout Prevention Advocate
Instructional Aide/Community Skills
Computer Lab Aide
Repair Technician/Lead
Repair Tcchnician/Senior
24-5
7/00
PREVIOUS JOB TITLE
Information Processing Manager
Buyer/Assistant
Buyer
Night Security, Lead
CURRENT JOB TITLE
Computer Support Manager Computer Support Specialist Construction Project Specialist Contract Management/Assistant Contract Management Specialist Contract Security Service Assistant Cook
Credentials Clerk
Culinary Arts Assistant
Curriculum Evaluation Technician Custodian
Custodian / Lead
Data Entry Operator
District/Alternative Site Maintenance Supervisor
District Maintenance Specialist District Media Services Specialist Dropout Program Developer Electrician
Electrician / Chief
Electronic Equipment Technician
Electronic Equipment Technician/Senior Electronics Program Assistant Employee Benefits Specialist Equipment Mechanic Equipment Mechanic/Chief ESL Student/Parent Liaison ESL Tester
Food Services Field Supervisor
Food Services Lunch Program Clerk Garde-Manager
GED Alternative Chief Examiner
General Craft/Grounds Maintenance/Chief Glazier
Glazier/Chief
Grill Specialist
Grounds Equipment Mechanic
Grounds Equipment Operator
Grounds Equipment Operator/Chief Groundskeeper Hearing/Vision Tester Hospitality Coordinator
HVAC Maintenance Mechanic
Information Processing Operator/Senior instructional Assistant Instructional Assistant/Desi
Chief Equipment Mechanic
Chief Glazier
Chief Grounds Equipment Operator
Instructional Aide
Instructional Aide/Desi
24-6
7/00
CURRENT JOB TITLE Instructional Assistant/Fusion Integrated Systems Campus Operation Mgr. Interpreter, ESP Interpreter/Receptionist Interpreter, Sign Language ISS Monitor Job Developer Job Placement Assistant Jobs-in-lndustiy Assistant Kitchen Assistant Library Technician Locksmith Locksmith/Chief Mall Manager Material Handler I Material Handler II Material Handler III Material Handler IV Media Technician Migrant Student Specialist Native American Student Advocate Network System Specialist Night Sweeper Operator/Clerk Office Assistant Office Assistant, ESP Office Assistant/Senior Offset Operator Offset Operator/Lead Offset Operator/Senior Operations Clerk Painter Painter/Chief Parent Resource Pool Conference Planner Payroll Clerk Payroll Technician PE/Athletics Equipment Manager Personal Assistant/TMH/ED/MH Personnel Associate Personnel Services Assistant Personnel Services Clerk Personnel Specialist Pesticide/Herbicide Technician Photo Technician Plumber Plumber/Chief Program Assistant-Alternative Programs
PREVIOUS JOB TITLE
Instructional Aide/Fusion
Educational Interpreter
Job Placement Aide Job Placement Aide Kitchen Aide
Chief Locksmith
Chief Painter
Conference Planner-Chapter I
Instructional Aide/TMH /ED/ MH
Chief Plumber
24-7
7/00
PREVIOUS JOB TITLE
CURRENT JOB TITLE
Programmer
Programmer Analyst
Public Relations Representative Record Retrieval Clerk
Records Clerk
Refinish/Sprayer Specialist
Refrigeration Mechanic
Refrigeration Mechanic/Chief Registrar
Registrar/Alternative Program
Registration Clerk
Registration Office Assistant Reproduction Equipment Operator Research Analyst Research Computer System Manager / Analyst
Research System Specialist/Senior Sanitation Truck Operator School Health Center Clerk Security Alarm Technician
Security Alarm Technician Senior
Security / Assistant
Security Assistant/Senior
Security/Contract Services Assistant
Security/Lead
Service Assistant
Sheet Metal Worker
Sheet Metal Worker/Chief
Special Education Service Assistant Stores Clerk
Student Accounting Specialist Student Liaison
Student Store Specialist
Study Hall Proctor
Substitute Systems Specialist
Systems Analyst
Systems Engineer
Systems Manager
Systems Programmer
Technical Specialist
Testing Clerk
Testing Facilitor
Transportation Dispatcher
Transportation Service Assistant Truck Driver
Truck Driver/Base Kitchen
Utility Worker
Vehicle Mechanic
Vehicle Mechanic. General Chief
Chief Refrigeration Mechanic
Security Aide
Night Security Assistant/Lead
Service Aide
Chief Sheet Metal Worker
Dropout Prevention Student Aide
24-8
7/00
CURRENT JOB TITLE	PREVIOUS JOB TITLE
Vocational Assessment Placement Specialist — Vocational Assessment Technician	—
Vocational Business Office Assistant	—
Vocational Media/Technical Specialist	—
Welder	—
Welder/Chief	Chief	Welder
Youthbuild Program Assistant	—
24-9
7/00
SECTION
25
Transfer and Assignment
A.	SITE/DEPARTMENT VACANCY
1.	A site/department vacancy within the same job title as to area, territory, work station, or work shifts at individual sites and/or departments will be filled by the principal/site administrator or designee in the following order:
a.	First, the opportunity to be considered will be given to eligible employees already assigned to that site.
b.	Second, the opportunity will be given to eligible District employees transferring to that site.
c.	Last opportunity will be given to applicants for employment.
B.	VOLUNTARY TRANSFER PROCEDURE
1.	Voluntary Transfer - Transfer request by employee to move from one location to a different location while retaining the same job title.
a.	Eligibility requirements for voluntary transfer
1)	Must have been employed in the district a minimum of twelve (12) months immediately preceding the date in which the transfer request is submitted.
2)	Must have been in the job title under employment contract a minimum of twelve (12) months immediately preceding the date in which the transfer request is submitted.
3)	Must not have been voluntarily transferred during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding the date in which the transfer would be effective.
4)	Must not be in remediation status during the twelve (12) month period preceding the date the transfer request is submitted.
5)	Voluntary transfers will not be permitted for any employee who has been disciplined within the last three (3) years for matters regarding inappropriate conduct involving students. (See Section VI, Progressive Discipline, of the Employee Conduct/Discipline Handbook and Glossary of Terms page ii, CEA Handbook.)
b.	General Procedures for Transfer
1)	Employee(s) requesting transfer must hand carry transfer request form to Employee Relations Office, at which time form will be date stamped and copy will be given to employee.
2)	Request form for transfer must show employee location preference(s) and is limited to three locations.
3)	Request for transfer must be submitted in writing, by March 15 of each year to be applicable for the following school year - July 1 through June 30. There is no carry-over of request from year to year.
251
7/00
4)	Surplus employees will be reassigned prior to current transfer list. Reduction-in-force employees awaiting recall will be recalled after anyone on the current year’s (July 1 - June 30) transfer list is transferred.
5)	Positions filled through transfer will not be advertised.
6)	Current year (July 1 - June 30) vacancies shall be offered to employees on the transfer list prior to being posted to the general public. If not filled by transfer, the position shall be advertised to the general public for ten (10) work days.
c.	Procedures for Site:
The site which creates the vacancy will send the Personnel Action Request (PAR) to Employee Relations Office.
d.	If there is a Special Need for the Site:
1)	A Bona Fide Business Interest Form stating justification of the special needs will be submitted with the PAR to Employee Relations, i.e. language and/or gender.
2)	Employee Relations will verify “Special Need for the Site”. If Special Need for the Site is granted, the CEA president and applicant(s) for transfer will be notified in writing of the “Special Need for the Site* by Employee Relations.
3)	If the Special Need for the Site is granted by Employee Relations and transfer applicants do not meet that need, the position will be open for advertisement and anyone may apply.
e.	If No Special Need for the Site Exists:
1)	Employee Relations will send a list of all transfer applicants for that job title to the site.
2} Site will set up appointments to interview all transfer applicants or the list; noting any comments (i.e., declines) on the list.
3)	When a person declines a transfer his/her name will be removed from that site transfer list. Site will notify employee relations.
4)	Requestfs) for transfer may be withdrawn, by submitting a written request to Employee Relations, at any time prior to being contacted for interview.
f.	Site Creates an Interviewing Committee
1)	Lead CEA representative or designee as appointed by the CEA President will be an observer at all transfer interviews and verify that scoring is accurate. The CEA representative and administrator will sign off on paper work indicating that procedures were/or were not followed.
2)	The current hiring and interviewing procedure will be followed with the following exceptions: PR 14 Rating Sheet will not be used in this process and the decision is not subject to challenge.
3)	Question Rating Sheet will be used - and questions will solicit skills and knowledge based on the job description.
4)	Expectations for working conditions and hours of work will be discussed with all applicants.
25-2
7/00
5)	Criteria for seniority factor rating will be determined by official hire date as shown on personnel records on file.
5 points
4 points
3 points
2 points
1 point
16 years in district or more 12-15 years in district
8-11 years in district
4-7 years in district
1	-3 years in district
Applicants must have a score of 75% or more with the highest score getting the job.
6)	If all transfer applicants’ scores fall below the 75% then the site can declare “does not meet needs of campus.”
7)	Site will then notify Employee Relations and CEA President.
8)	Site will reasonably attempt to notify transfer applicants by phone that they were not selected and follow up with a letter in writing to all applicants.
9)	Employee Relations will then advertise the position. Position will be open to all applicants including those that were on the transfer list if they desire to apply.
10)	All back-up/scoring paperwork will be sent to Employee Relations immediately following interview/selection.
11)	Site will reasonably attempt to notify by phone all applicants not selected and the selected applicant and follow up with a letter in writing to all applicants.
C, INVOLUNTARY TRANSFER
All involuntary transfers shall be in accord with Governing Board Policy GPC which reads as follows:
“Authority is vested in the Superintendent to recommend to the Governing Board the assignment, transfer, promotion, demotion, or termination of any employee in order to accomplish the mission, goals, and objectives of the district.”
D. ASSIGNMENT AND REASSIGNMENT
1.	Assignments and reassignments as to area, territory, work station, or work shifts at the various schools, or other locations, will be made by the immediate supervisor. When a particular assignment in a given job classification as to area, territory, work station or work shift becomes vacant, an assignment will be made by the immediate supervisor in the following order or preference, if the employee is otherwise qualified for the assignment:
a.	First preference will be given to employees already assigned to that site.
b.	Second preference will be given to District employees transferring to that site.
c.	Last preference will be given to applicants for employment.
25-3
7/00
SECTION
26
CLASSROOM COVERAGE
A.	No classified employee(s) shall fill in for any position/assignment for which the district requires certification, unless under the following conditions.
1.	A classified employee with Arizona substitute certification may provide class coverage not to exceed three (3) hours a week and no more than one (1) period per day.
2.	Any classified employee substituting for a teacher who is on an approved absence must have the approval of the immediate administrative supervisor before accepting the assignment.
3.	Coverage may not result in an employee exceeding the (forty) 40-hour workweek.
4.	If the classified employee (instructional assistant) is assigned to a teacher the administrative supervisor must consult with the teacher prior to the instructional assistant being removed for coverage.
B.	Rate of pay for classified employee providing class coverage will be same as certified employees ($25.00 per period, normally 55 minutes).
7/00 (revised 8/03)
26-1
SECTION
27
Movement between employee Groups
A.	CLASSIFIED TO CERTIFIED POSITION
Effective January 1, 2000, a classified employee who moves to a certified position shall move to the position in accordance with the following conditions:
1.	Pnor service credit will be granted on the basis of one step on the salary schedule for each three (3) full-time, full-years of continuous service in the Phoenix Union High School District. The initial placement shall not be in conflict with the “Teachers Salary Initial Placement (Paragraph F Proc 5-2 or 5-3) in the Professional Agreement.*
2.	Upon acceptance of a position as a certified employee h/she will receive a certified seniority date as outlined in the professional agreement. H/she will retain his/her original hire date as a classified employee in the district. Therefore, seniority ' will be established in each classification and not carried from one classification to another.
3.	Upon movement from one employee group to another, accrued vacation exceeds the limit established in the Handbook/Agreement for his/her current position shall be paid in full to the employee.
4.	Longevity stays on classified record, doesn’t move with the employee when movement to new group.
5.	Accrued leave days will move with the employee.
B.	CLASSIFIED TO CLASSIFIED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITION
Effective January 1, 2000, a classified employee who moves to an administrative position shall move to the position in accordance with the following conditions:
1.	Upon movement from one employee group to another, accrued vacation exceeds the limit established in the Handbook/Agreement for his/her current position shall be paid in full to the employee.
2.	Upon acceptance of a position as a Classified Administrator the employee will receive an administrative seniority date as outlined in the Administrators Handbook. He/she will retain his/her original hire date as a classified employee in the district. Therefore, seniority dates will be established in each classification and not carried from one classification to another.
3	Longevity stays on classified record, doesn’t move with the employee when movement to new group.
4.	Accrued leave days will move with the employee.
27-1
7/00
C.	INVOLUNTARY RETURN OF CERTIFIED/CLASSIFIED ADMINISTRATIVE TO CLASSIFIED
(Applies to all employees past and present) A certified/classified administrativ. employee who has held a permanent classified position in the district immediately prior to moving to the certified/classified administrative position (with no break in service) may place his/her name on any job title(s) that he/she has held in the district on a permanent basis as a classified employee should they be involuntary returned to a classified position. The employee must submit a request to the Employee Relations Division within three (3) workdays after initial notification to determine their current seniority in the district.
PR 14. Appropriate verification by the Employee Relations Personnel will determine if those qualifications have been met. Failure to meet all of the qualifications or to provide the information stated above would disqualify the employee from having his/her name placed on the requested seniority job title list.
An employee is subject to all regulations outlined in the handbook/agreement for his/her current position.
27-2
7/00
SECTION
28
Transfer to
Acting Status in a Higher Classification
A.	PERMANENT EMPLOYEES TRANSFERRED TO ACTING STATUS
This section does not apply to an employee temporarily replacing another employee on vacation or to temporary employees.
This section is applicable only to permanent employees who are replacing on an interim basis an employee in an existing staff-allocated position at a higher classification, which is vacant due to illness of incumbent, leave of absence, or due to resignation or termination of employee who held the position. If the position is vacant due to resignation or termination of an employee, the interim employee shall remain for a period no longer than thirty (30) consecutive workdays.
New positions may be filled on an interim basis for a maximum of thirty (30) consecutive workdays.
B.	PAY FOR ACTING STATUS
Permanent employees who are transferred to an acting status in a higher classification, after five consecutive work days retroactive to the starting date of the acting assignment, will be paid per promotion placement as defined in Section 30.
1.	The hourly rate of the classification of the assumed position.
2..In no event shall an employee in a position on a given range be granted a salary that exceeds the top step of that range (exclusive of Professional Growth and/or ....longevity increments).
C.	APPOINTME NT/SE LE CTION TO ACTING STATUS
In the absence of a permanent employee for an interim period of time, a member of the current staff of that school or department (if at the CES or DSF) may be appointed to acting status immediately by the appropriate administrator or supervisor.
1.	Assignment to acting status will be made on the employee’s experience, training, and knowledge in relation to the requirements of the position.
2.	Employees appointed to an acting status will not be placed in the position permanently once said position opens unless selected through the interview process after the position had been advertised.
If a member of the current staff is not appointed to an acting status and if it is estimated that the position is going to be open for thirty (30) workdays or longer and is going to be filled, the interim opening will be advertised.
1.	Employees interested in the position, which will be an assignment for an interim period of time, must make application for the position within five (5) days.
2.	Selection will be made from the applicants. Preference will be given to District applicants, however, the District reserves the right to select the person for the position whether the person is an employee of the District or not.
28-1
7/00
3.	If the position has been advertised, applicants will be notified by memorandum to be posted on the bulletin board(s) when the interim assignment has been made. The memorandum will indicate the name of the person who was selected to fill the opening for the interim period.
D.	RETURN TO PERMANENT ASSIGNMENT
Upon completion of the interim assignment, the employee can be awarded the position oh a permanent status if the following was completed.
L The employee was awarded the position in an acting status after the position was posted and applicants) were interviewed and selection was made.
2.	The employee was evaluated in the position within the last 90 days and their performance “met standards* or higher.
If the employee does not meet standards they will return to .his/her former classification and rate of pay. The employee returning to his/her former classification shall have included in his/her permanent personnel file a record of the employee’s service in the higher classification, which shall include but not be limited to:
1.	Length of service in higher classification.
2.	Identification of immediate supervisor in higher classification.
3.	Job title of higher classification.
This information will be sent to the Employee Relations Office by the supervisor of the employee.
28-2
7/00
SECTION
29
Permanent Transfer to Lower Classification
A.	VOLUNTARY TRANSFER TO LOWER CLASSIFICATION
1.	An employee whose position is paid on the Alternate Support Services Salaiy Schedule voluntarily transfers from a higher classification to a lower classification will be placed on the same step of the lower classification as the employee held on the higher classification and will be placed on either the Alternate Support Services Salary Schedule or Support Services Salary Schedule, whichever of the two provides for the lesser decrease.
2.	An employee whose position is paid on the Support Services Salary Schedule voluntarily transfers from a higher classification to a lower classification will be placed on the same step of the lower classification as the employee held on the higher classification and will remain on the Support Services Salary Schedule.
B.	INVOLUNTARY TRANSFER TO LOWER CLASSIFICATION
1.	An employee whose position is paid on the Alternative Support Services Salary Schedule whose position is eliminated and who is transferred to a position of lower classification will be placed on the step of either the Alternative Support Services Salary Schedule or the Support Services Salary Schedule which is closest to the rate of pay the employee was on at the higher classification.
2.	An employee whose position is paid on the Support Services Salary Schedule whose position is eliminated and who is transferred to a position of lower classification will be placed on the step of the lower classification on that schedule which is closest to the rate of pay the employee was on at the higher classification.
3.	In no event shall an employee in a position on a given range be granted a pay rate that exceeds the top step of the range on which they are eligible to be placed.
C.	DEMOTION TO LOWER CLASSIFICATION
1.	An employee whose position is paid on the Alternate Support Services Salary
— _	Schedule who is demoted from a higher classification to a lower classification
will be placed on the same step of the lower classification as the employee held on the higher classification and will be placed on either the Alternate Support Services Salary Schedule or Support Services Salaiy Schedule, whichever of the two provides for the lesser decrease.
2.	An employee whose position is paid on the Support Services Salaiy Schedule who is demoted from a higher classification to a lower classification will be placed on the same step of the lower classification as the employee held on the higher classification and remain on the Support Services Salary Schedule.
D.	TEMPORARY TRANSFER TO A LOWER CLASSIFICATION
An employee who is temporarily transferred from a higher classification to a lower classification shall continue to receive his/her regular rate of pay at the higher classification during such temporary assignment period.
29-1
7/00
SECTION
30
PROMOTION TO HIGHER CLASSIFICATION
A. Ah employee who is promoted to a higher classification shall move to the higher classification in accord with one of the following:
1.	Position currently held paid on Alternate Support Services Salary Schedule (ranges 1-37).
a.	First, on the Alternate Support Services Salary Schedule move as follows:
One range promotion
Two range promotion Three range promotion Four range promotion or more
3% increase
6% increase
9% increase 12.5% increase
b.	Second, after amount determined in “a” above, place on Support Services Salary Schedule (ranges 10-30).
i.	If placement on the Support Services Salary Schedule provides for an increase in pay, even though the amount of the increase may be less than that amount determined by the calculation in “a” above, the person will be placed on the Support Services Salary Schedule. To permit the increase, the person may be advanced in steps. However, in no event shall an employee ; be granted a pay rate that exceeds the top step of the range on which they are eligible to be placed.
ii.	If placement on the Support Services Salary Schedule results in a decrease in pay, the employee shall remain on the Alternate Support Services Salary Schedule and be placed on the appropriate range at the rate as determined in “a* above.
2.	Position currently help paid on Support Services Salary Schedule (ranges 10-30). a. Step placement on higher range
One range promotion. Two rarige promotion Three range proiribtion Four range promotion Five farige promotion Six rarige promotion Seven range promotion Eight range promotion Nine range promotion Ten range promotion ^Must be professional ।
Same step
Same'step
Reduce1 step
Reduce 2 steps
Reduce 3 steps
Reduce 4 steps
Reduce 5 steps
Reduce 6 steps
Reduce 7 steps
Reduce 8 steps )wth steps to be applicable.
3.	Step placement on a higher range, regardless of whether the person is on the Alternative Support Services Salary Schedule or the Support Services Salary Schedule, may not result in step placement which is lower than the step placement would have been if the person were a new employee.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
30-1
4.	An employee whose position currently held in on the Alternative Support Services Salary Schedule moves to another position at the same range on the Alternate Support Services Salary Schedule will move on the Alternate Support Services Salary Schedule and remain on the same step as held at the time of the move.
5.	An employee whose position currently held is on tjie Support Services Salary Schedule moves to another position at the same range on the Support Services Salary Schedule will move on the Support Services Salary Schedule and remain on the same step as held at the time of the move<
6.	If a salary increment is due the employee at the time of transfer, it shall be credited prior to the movement to the higher classification. An employee with more than six (6) months’ continuous service from the date of employment, who has been promoted, shall receive the annual increment the following July 1 in accord with the transition to the new salary schedule.
7.	In no event shall an employee in a position on a given range be granted a salary that exceeds the top step of that range (exclusive of Professional Growth and/or longevity increments).
B.	Whenever promotions are made to higher classifications, selection will be made on first, the employee’s experience, training, and knowledge in relation to the position requirement; and, second, on the employee’s seniority. The District reserves the right to select the best person for the position, regardless of whether or not this person is an employee of the District.
C.	An employee whose position has been reclassified to a higher classification shall move to the higher classification on the same step.
D.	There are certain job categories in skilled and technical areas as listed below in which the progression from one level to another is dependent on the acquisition of a higher level of skill and on an available vacancy. Recommendation to move to the next higher level is made to the appropriate Assistant Superintendent through the intermediate levels of administrators by the Immediate Supervisor. Such recommendations may not be made until the employee has served at least six (6) months in his/her current position.
Job description standards identifying required skills will be used to determine that the employee has acquired these skills. The employee must also have satisfactorily demonstrated that s/he possesses the necessary skills. Achievement of the skill level will be verified at the time of the animal employee evaluation.
Recommendations for advancement to the next higher level will be made prior to the time duties at the new level are assigned on a regular continuing basis.
The recommendation must be concurred by the appropriate Assistant Superintendent who submits it to the Employee Relations Office and Classification Review Committee. Staffing standards for the department or division must be adhered to, regardless of the recommendation, and may not be exceeded. Approved recommendation for change in level will be effective on the following July 1 or January 1 of any given year, whichever comes first.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
30-2
The job categories to which this specific paragraph applies are limited to the following (	categories:
1.	Contract Management Specialist; Contract Management Specialist, Sr.; Contract Management Assistant.
2.	Account Clerk; Senior Account Clerk; Account Technician; Account Technician, Senior.
3.	System Programmer; Systems Analyst.
4.	Computer Repair Tech; Computer Repair Tech/Senior.
5.	Personnel Service Assistant; Substitute Service Specialist, Personnel Specialist.
6.	Materials Handler I; Materials Handler II; Materials Handler III; Materials Handler IV
7.	Custodian - From 10 Month to 12 Month '
8.	Payroll Clerk, Payroll Technician
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
30-3
SECTION
31
t
k.
Campus Committee
A.	PURPOSE
The purpose of the campus committee is to discuss and research matters of mutual concern at the campus level. This committee is to be in no way a substitute for the grievance procedure or the appeal process.
B.	REGULATION ON MEMBERSHIP
A campus committee shall be established at each school. The committee shall be composed of three members designated from the CTA (The unit chairperson and two to be elected by members of the CTA on campus), three members of the administrative/supervisory staff on campus designated by the principal, and one member of CEA whose selection shall be determined by the local CEA membership. The selection of the membership on the campus committee shall be determined prior to May 1 of each year.
C.	ESSENTIAL DUTIES/JOB DESCRIPTION
The campus committee can not change essential duties/job descriptions of any classified employee.
31-1
7/00
SECTION
32
Grievance Procedure
A.	PURPOSE
The purpose of this grievance policy is to obtain, at the nearest administrative level, equitable solutions to the problems, which may from time to time arise.
B.	DEFINITION
A grievance is defined as a complaint by the Association, or by one or more employees, that there has been a violation, a misinterpretation, or inequitable application of a specific section(s) of the Classified Employees Association Handbook.
Grievant shall mean an employee or group of employees or the Association filing a grievance.
“Party of interest” is an employee who might be required to take action or against whom action might be taken in order to resolve the grievance.
C.	TIME LIMITS
Any employee shall have the right, anytime within thirty (30} workdays after the occurrence of the act or condition upon which the grievance is based, to present the grievance to the District at the appropriate level. Any grievance not so presented shall not be recognized by the Executive Board of the representative group (the Classified Employees Association).
Because it is important that grievances be processed, as rapidly as possible the number of days indicated at each level should be considered as a maximum. If, at any level, the time limits are not met by the administration, the grievance will automatically move to the next level, unless the specified time limits are extended by mutual agreement.
If a grievance is filed which might not be resolved at Level 3 within the prescribed time limits prior to the end of the employee’s work year, and which if left unresolved until the beginning of the following work year, could result in irreparable harm to a party or parties of interest, the specified time limits shall be reduced so that the grievance procedure may be concluded prior to the end of the work year.
Failure by the aggrieved person at any level to appeal a grievance to the next level within the specified time limits shall be deemed to have accepted the decision rendered at that level.
D.	RIGHT TO REPRESENTATION
Any party of interest may be represented at any level of the grievance procedure by a person, or persons, of his/her own choosing. When the aggrieved person(s) is not represented b}r the Association, the Association shall have the right to be present at all stages of the grievance procedure.
At any level in the grievance procedure, the aggrieved person may:
1.	Present and discuss the alleged grievance personally or
2.	Request a representative to accompany him/her and request that the representative act on the employee’s behalf.
32-1
7/00
E.	REPRISALS PROHIBITED
Reprisals shall not be taken against any employee, any party of interest, any representative, or any other participant in the grievance procedure for reason of such participation.
No employee who is a participant in any hearing or proceeding at any level of the grievance procedure shall lose any pay as a result of such participation.
F.	GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.	Nothing in these policies will be construed as limiting the right of any employee having a grievance to discuss the matter informally with any appropriate member of the Administration and having the grievance adjusted, providing the adjustment is consistent with this Handbook and District policies.
2.	A grievance may be* withdrawn at any step without prejudice or record and cannot be reopened.
3.	The CEA may submit any grievance that involves a group of employees. If it is limited in effect to one unit or division, the grievance shall be submitted to the appropriate level 1 administrator/supervisor. Any grievance submitted by the CEA which involves a group of employees shall be signed by each grievant.
If a grievance affects a group of employees from more than one unit, the representative group may submit such grievance, in writing, directly to Level 2, and the processing of such grievance may commence at Level 2. The representative group may process such a grievance even though the aggrieved persons do not wish to do so.
4.	The Board and the Administration agree to make available to the aggrieved person and his/her representatives, all information relevant to the issues raised by the grievance that is in the Board’s or Administration’s possession or control and is not privileged under law.
5.	All written and printed matter dealing with the processing of a grievance will be filed in the Employee Relations Office separately from the central personnel files of the participants.
6.	All sessions held in connection with the processing of grievances, including arbitration, shall be closed sessions and no releases shall be made concerning the progress of the hearing.
G.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Any grievance presented to the District shall be handled in accordance with the following procedure(s) using, whenever appropriate the problem solving process:
1.	Informal Procedure
If an employee feels that s/he has a grievance, s/he will first make an effort to resolve the problem informally by discussing the matter with his/her immediate administrative supervisor. The employee may (1) discuss the alleged grievance personally or (2) request a representative to accompany him/ her and to act on his/her behalf. (See paragraph C above.) The immediate administrative supervisor shall attempt to adjust the grievance and shall respond verbally within forty-eight (48) hours of the discussion.
32’2
7/00
2.	Formal Procedure
Level 1 - Appropriate Supervisor
If the grievance is not satisfactorily settled at the informal procedure, the employee and/or his/her representative shall within five (5) workdays after the verbal decision has been rendered file a grievance formally, in writing, using the appropriate forms, with the appropriate administrative supervisor, unit administrator, or department or division head.
The aggrieved person or the appropriate administrative supervisor may request a conference prior to the rendering of the decision. A meeting shall then be held within three (3) workdays after receipt of the grievance, at a mutually agreeable time, by the appropriate supervisor, the employee, and his/her representative.
Within five (5) workdays after receipt of the grievance or after the conference, the appropriate administrative supervisor will render a written decision to the aggrieved person with a copy to the representative group.
Level 2 - Appeal to the Superintendent
Within five (5) workdays after receipt of the response from the Administrator/Supervisor hearing the grievance, the employee, with the approval of the representative group, may appeal, in writing, to the Superintendent.
Within ten (10) workdays of receipt of the appeal, the Superintendent (or designee) will meet with the aggrieved person, his/her representative, and the appropriate Administrative Supervisor involved at Level 1. Arguments and documentation by all parties shall be presented in writing to all parties at the Level 2 hearing.
The Superintendent (or designee) shall render a decision, in writing, within ten (10) workdays following the hearing. This decision will be sent to the aggrieved person, the representative group, and the appropriate administrative supervisor involved. If the Superintendent chooses not to act within ten (10) workdays, the grievance shall be considered adjudicated in favor of the aggrieved person.
Level 3 - Impartial Advisor Arbitration
If the aggrieved person is not satisfied with the disposition of his/her grievance at Level 2, s/he may, within five (5) work days after receipt of the Superintendent’s (or designee’s) decision, request in writing, to the appropriate representative of the representative group that the grievance be submitted to arbitration.
The representative group shall make judgment on the merits of the alleged grievance. If the group decides either that the alleged grievance has merit or that the decision at Level 2 is not acceptable, it shall, within ten (10) work days after receipt of the request, submit the grievance to arbitration by so notifying, in writing, the President of the Board and the Superintendent.
The Superintendent (or designee) and the President of the representative group (or designee) shall, within five (5) work days after the written noticed is received, select jointly an arbitrator who is an experienced and impartial person of recognized competence.
If the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator within five (5) work days, the Superintendent (or designee) shall agree to call upon either the American Arbitration Association or the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for assistance.
The arbitrator shall confer promptly with representatives of the Board and the representative group shall review the record of prior meetings and shall hold such further hearings, as s/he deems necessary.
32-3
7/00
3.
The arbitrator will have authority to hold hearings and make procedural rules. The recommendations will be issued within a reasonable time after the date and the close of the hearings or, if oral hearings have been waived, from the date the final statements and evidence are submitted to him/her.
The arbitrator’s recommendations shall be submitted, in writing, as soon as possible to the Board, with a copy to the representative group only, and shall set forth the findings of fact, reasoning and conclusions on the issues submitted. The arbitrator’s recommendations shall be consistent with existing Statutes.
The Board shall take official action on the report of the arbitrator within fifteen (15) workdays after its receipt and shall render its decision in writing to all parties concerned.
All costs for the services of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Board and the representative group.
Arbitration Decisions
The arbitrator’s opinion shall be confined exclusively to the interpretation of the explicit provision or provisions of this handbook in the dispute between the association, the District and the employee(s) and shall go no further than to decide upon the issues presented in the underlying grievance. The arbitrator shall have no authority to add or detract from, alter, amend or modify any provisions of this handbook nor to impose on any party thereto a limitation not explicitly provided for in this handbook. Further, any arbitration decision rendered under this handbook shall be confined to the grievance before the arbitrator and shall not, unless the parties otherwise agree, be applicable to any other employee(s) or grievance(s).
In the event that it becomes necessaiy for the parties to negotiate the resolution of a grievance, or the implementation of an arbitration decision, such a resolution or agreement shall be in writing, and shall be for the purpose of settling or resolving an instant grievance or arbitration dispute and shall not be precedent setting under the handbook.
Arbitration decisions are final and shall not provide nor permit for any further appeal, grievance or recourse by or for any grievant(s), employee(s), or party(ies) of interest who have been or who may be affected by the implementation of the resolution of issue.
32-4
7/00
SECTION
33
APPEAL PROCEDURE
A.	WHAT IS. ELIGIBLE FOR APPEAL
A disagreement with a decision made by an administrator, by one employee or a group of employees (other than a grievance) may be resolved by the use of this appeal procedure by that employee or group of employees. Any violation, misinterpretation, or inequitable application of any of the working conditions or other provisions of the handbook is defined as a grievance and will hot be processed as an appeal. If an issue has been submitted as a grievance, that same issue may not be submitted as an appeal.
B.	OTHER AVENUES OF APPEAL
A separate appeal process is identified in this Classified Handbook for Professional Growth Committee decisions. In all other appeals, this appeal process is applicable.
The District and the CEA agree to use the problem solving process as the first step in resolving any issues that would result in a grievance prior to the formal procedure.
C.	INFORMAL CONFERENCE REQUIRED
An informal conference must first be held between the primary parties of interest to attempt to resolve the problem. A written communication shall be prepared identifying the results of this conference. Classified employees may request Association representation.
D.	GUIDELINES FOR FORMAL APPEAL PROCEDURE
1.	Appeals must be submitted in writing on appropriate forms. Forms for submitting appeals shall be jointly prepared by the District and Association. The forms shall be supplied by the Employee Relations Office and shall be available in the supervisor’s office.
2.	The employee(s) may request Association representation be present.
3/ Copies of all written appeals and decisions will be submitted to the Superintendent, the CEA President, and the Association representative, if any.
E.	STEPS IN FORMAL APPEAL PROCEDURE
1.	The first step is addressed to the Principal, Unit Head, Director, or Division Manager to whom the classified person is responsible. This appeal must be made in writing within ten (10) workdays after the disagreement or misunderstanding first occurred or within five (5) workdays after the informal session was held, whichever comes later. A written decision should be made within five (5) days of the submission df the written appeal.
2.	If the person(s) making the appeal is/are not satisfied with the decision at Step 1, , s/he/they may, with the approval of the representative group, within five (5) days after the decision is received, file an appeal with the Superintendent or designee. A conference will be scheduled within five (5) days after the receipt of the appeal at Step 2, and a written decision submitted within five (5) days following the conference.
7W (Revised 8/03)
33-1
3.	If the person(s) is/are not satisfied with the decision rendered at Step 2, s/he/they may, within five (5) days after receipt of the decision, request in writing to the representative group that it request a hearing before the Governing Board. The Board, after reviewing the case, shall within fifteen (15) days decide whether or not a hearing shall be^ held. The Board shall render a decision within seven (7) days after a hearing, if a hearihg is held, or within fifteen (15) days after receipt if no hearing is held.	........
F.	REPRISALS PROHIBITED
Reprisals shall not be taken against any employee or any other participant in the appeal procedure by reason of such participation.

7/00 (Revised 8/03)
33-2
SECTION
34
Disciplinary Action
1.	Disciplinary action shall not be taken against any employee without just cause established through due process.
2.	Disciplinary action shall be administered in a progressive and constructive manner in an effort to counsel and fully advise employees of deficiencies and afford them an opportunity to demonstrate improvement in performance.
3.	The nature and frequency of the offense will determine the appropriate disciplinary action.
4.	Actions, which jeopardize the health, safety, and welfare of students or employees or outrage public opinion, may result in more severe disciplinary action to include immediate removal from the employee’s assignment pending further Governing Board action.
5.	Disciplinary action regarding employee conduct shall be in accord with the provisions and procedures contained in the Employee Conduct/Discipline Handbook.
6.	When derogatory material is to be placed in the employee’s personnel file, the employee shall acknowledge that s/he has read such material by his/her signature. The signature does not necessarily indicate agreement with the content of the material. If s/he refuses to sign, the supervisor will so note in the presence of the Unit CEA representative, or employee’s designee, sign and date the Employee Relations Office copy and forward it to the Employee Relations Office.
34-1
7/00
SECTION
35
Payment for Student
Activity Work
1.	All Classified employees may be considered for certain supervisory work related to student activities, as allowed by State Statutes, required for activities supported by admission fees or activities provided out of student funds. Current district employees will be given preference to work these activities. The current rate of pay for these activities is $10.00 per hour, paid to the nearest quarter hour for the supervisory service.
2.	A minimum of one hour will be paid for show up time for canceled night athletic contests.
3.	Student activity work shall be available to all classified who have signed up to work student activities. Employees must sign up by the end of the third week of each semester. (The sign up sheet will be maintained in the activity office.)
4.	Assignments to student activities shall be by seniority on a rotation basis. A person declining an assignment will be rotated as though they worked the assignment.
5.	Employees whose work in a student activity assignment is unsatisfactory will be advised and their name will be removed from the list for the balance of that semester. If unsatisfactory performance in a student activities assignment should occur a second time the employee will no longer be eligible for any student activities assignments for the balance of that school year.
35-1
7/00
SECTION
36
LONGEVITY
Employees achieving fifteen (15) years of service credit or more will receive a longevity increment of $1000. Employees achieving twenty (20) years of service credit will receive a second longevity increment of $1000. Employees achieving twenty-five (25) years of service credit or more will receive a third longevity increment of $1000.
36-1
7/00
SECTION
37
Professional Growth
A.	PROFESSIONAL GROWTH PROGRAM
Purpose: To Enhance Their Effectiveness As An Employee
a.	All academic courses and/or equivalent services taken for credit under this program must be directly related to the employee’s area of responsibility, or enhance their effectiveness as an employee, except as otherwise provided.
b.	Equivalent credit or course work that enhances their effectiveness needs to be pre-approved.
B.	COMMITTEE
The Professional Growth Committee is a joint committee. It will be composed of three members from each of the following representative groups (CEA & AdA) and one ex-officio member.
Membership will be appointed for a three-year term, with staggered terms so that one-third of the committee will be appointed or re-appointed each year.
a.	The Professional Growth Committee shall approve/disapprove requests for credit; budget; in-service programs; staff development programs; summer workshops; extended leaves of absences for educational purposes; serve as an appeal board on credit approval.
b.	The members of the classified professional growth committee will serve as a planning committee for staff development, functioning in an advisory capacity to the administrator responsible for staff development.
1)	The committee responsibilities are:
a)	To provide input on classified needs relating to staff development;
b)	To plan and recommend activities for staff development;
c)	To serve as a clearinghouse for District classified staff
development activities;
d)	To make recommendations for the expenditure of District
classified Professional Growth monies.
C.	PROFESSIONAL GROWTH SALARY INCREMENTS
1.	One additional professional growth step on the salary schedule shall constitute a salary increment. A professional growth salary increment may be obtained in the following ways:
a.	One additional step on the salary schedule shall be given for completion of 15 semester hours, one step for the completion of 30 semester hours, and one step for completion of 45 semester hours.
b.	A fourth professional growth step in the amount of three percent (3%) shall be granted for completion of fifteen (15| academic hours beyond the third professional growth step. The hours must be completed after employment with the district.
37-1
7/00
c.	A fifth professional growth step in the amount of three percent (3%) shall be granted for completion of fifteen (15) academic hours beyond the fourth professional growth step. The hours must be completed after employment with the district.
D.	CREDIT INFORMATION
1.	Academic/equivalent credit shall not be granted for study done prior to July 1,
1971, or prior to an employee’s permanent date of employment with the District, as provided in the seniority list.
2.	Employees may earn a maximum of nine (9) credit hours per semester during the school year. If more credit hours are requested, prior approval must be received from the supervisor and the Professional Growth Committee in order to receive professional growth credit for that semester.
3.	Equivalent credit is credit granted in lieu of academic credit. Equivalent credit may be accepted up to and including six (6) semester hours in each 15-hour increment. Equivalent credit shall not be granted for equivalent service done before July 1, 1971, or prior to an employee’s date of employment with the District.
4.	No professional growth credit will be given when any kind of district reimbursement is granted other than payment of registration fees/tuition.
5.	It is recommended that each employee seek prior approval before commencing any activity for credit to ensure that activity meets all guidelines. This prior approval means tentative approval of the activity, but not necessarily approval of the total hours requested. Credit and/or hours of participation must be verified after completion of the activity. ......
6	No academic or equivalent credit is granted for an activity which takes place during the normal scheduled workday when a person is released from his/her assigned responsibilities, and paid by the District. No employee may receive both monetary compensation and credit for the same activity.
7.	Courses taken as a requirement in a District training program or courses taken and applied toward meeting requirements in a District training program are not eligible for professional growth salary credit.
8.	No credit will be given for repeated academic courses. No credit will be given for a lower level course after credit has been granted for an upper level course.
E.	ACADEMIC CREDIT
Academic credit is computed at 15 clock hours - one academic credit, and shall be granted for the following:
1.	Academic credit at accredited institutions is acceptable.
2.	Verification of Academic Credit.
a. An academic approval form plus an official transcript and/or grade card(s) from an accredited college or university or a District Certificate of Completion must be submitted to the Professional Growth Office prior to review of credits for a salaiy increment.
3	Associate of Arts, Bachelor Degree, and Master’s Degree. One increment shall be granted for obtaining an Associate of Arts Degree (AA). a second increment shall be granted for obtaining a Bachelor’s Degree (BA), and a third increment shall be granted for obtaining a Master’s Degree (MA).
4	A fourth professional growth step in the amount of three percent (3%) shall be granted for completion of fifteen (15) academic hours beyond the third professional growth step A fifth professional growth step in the amount of three percent (3%) shall be granted for completion of fifteen (15) academic
37-2
7/00
hours beyond the fourth professional growth step. The hours must be completed after employment with the district.
5.	Study completed at the request of the officials, Assistant Superintendent/ Designee of the District.
6.	Courses completed at an accredited college or recognized institution of higher learning or district approved which are directly related to the participant’s current responsibility or enhances his/her effectiveness as an employee.
a.	Administrative /Management	P-	Keyboarding
b.	Chemical Awareness Courses	n.	Humanities*
c.	College of Education Courses	o.	Industrial Education
d.	Computer Technology	q-	Math*
e.	Counseling	r.	Reading*
f.	Curriculum and Instruction	s.	Science*
&	Discipline Courses	t.	Sign Language
h.	Dropout Prevention Courses	u.	Social Studies*
i.	English *	V.	Sociology
j-	Exceptional Students	w.	Stress Management
k.	First Aide and/or Emergency Medical Technician Courses	X.	Supervision
1.	Foreign Language	y-	District approved Professional Growth
m.	History	z.	
‘Additional course offerings lists can be obtained from Employee Relations Office as several courses are incorporated within these major course titles
No credit will be given for repeated academic courses. No credit will be given for a lower level course after credit has been granted for an upper level course.
7.	Credit will be granted for courses not listed in the generally accepted categories (Section 24.B.5) above when the employee submits a program of study for a degree program for professional growth committee approval. This program of study must be submitted prior to the employee applying for credit.
8.	Independent study approved by the Professional Growth Committee.
9	. Attendance at conferences, institutes, seminars, clinics, etc., after a written proposal has been approved by the Professional Growth Committee.
10.	Staff Development.
a. Staff development hours are considered academic credit and are computed at 15 clock hours - one academic credit.
F.	EQUIVALENT CREDIT
All equivalent credit is recommended to have prior approval.
1.	Applying for equivalent credit
a.	Verification of equivalent credit requests shall be submitted through the appropriate administrative supervisor to the Professional Growth Committee for final approval.
37-3
7/00
b.	In the event that the Professional Growth Committee disapproves a verification request, the rationale for disapproval shall be transmitted to the employee.
c.	If the employee submits a request in writing for reconsideration of a disapproved verification of equivalent credit, a hearing shall be granted by the Professional Growth Committee at which the request shall be considered.
2.	Equivalent credit in lieu of academic units may be accepted up to and including six (6) semester hours in each 15-hour increment.
3.	Equivalent credit may be accumulated during the period required for each salaiy increment.
4.	Equivalent credit hours of participation must be verified after completion of the activity.
5.	Equivalent credit shall be granted for the following:
a.	Credit will be given for teaching/proctor Professional Growth classes. (Credit will be given only one time for each course in lieu of payment.)
b.	District Committees
Maximum credit - Six (6) semester hours within each increment on the salary scale.
1)	District-wide Committees/Master list Committees = One 0) credit per semester.
Ratio » 35:1 Unpaid
a)	A member of a committee listed on the Master List is eligible to receive two (2) equivalent credits for each year or membership plus an additional credit for being the chairperson or co-chairperson. The Master List is as follows:
CEA Meet and Confer CEA Executive Boards CEA Council of Representatives Superintendent’s Budget Review Committee or committee meeting after hours on employees own time.
Credit is not given for serving as an alternate, as an alternate is obligated to act only in the absence of the official representative.
b)	Verification for Master List Committees will be automatic upon submission of the appropriate names by the CEA president.
2)	Other District Committees
Ratio «= 35:1 Unpaid
a)	District committee work must consist of at least three or more people who are active on the committee.
’ * b) District committee work may be accumulated during the period required for each salary increment.
c)	No credit is granted for work on local campus committees. If the local campus establishes a committee that is of a unique nature, it can petition approval for credit through the Professional Growth Committee.
37-4
7/00
d)	A memorandum from the committee chairperson or organizational officer must be attached to the properly signed Verification for Equivalent Credit Form and submitted to the Professional Growth Office for approval prior to requesting an additional increment. Verifying memorandums should include: a) Name of the committee, b) Statement verifying number of hours worked on the committee, and c) the attendance record form and minutes of meetings. No credit will be given when release time is granted.
e)	All forms are available from the Principal’s Office or Professional Growth Office.
f)	Final approval by the Professional Growth Committee will be based on satisfactory completion of the above requirements.
c.	City, County, State or National Committees
Maximum credit - Two (2) semester hours within each increment on the salary scale.
Ratio = 35:1 Unpaid
1)	Committee work must consist of at least three (3) or more people who are active on the committee.
2)	Committee work may be accumulated during the period required for each salary increment.
3)	Any committee that is of a religious or political nature is not eligible for credit.
4)	A memorandum from the committee chairperson or organizational officer must be attached to the properly signed Verification for Equivalent Credit Form and submitted to the Professional Growth Office for approval prior to requesting an additional increment. Verifying memorandums should include: a) Name and description of the committee, and b) Statement verifying number of hours worked on the committee.
d.	Professional Activities
Maximum credit - Three (3) semester hours within each increment on the salary scale.
Ratio = 35:1 Unpaid
1)	Professional Activity is defined as published writing, professional speaking, leadership in professional organizations, and development of instructional materials for use on a districtwide basis which is part of an outgrowth of the participant’s professional affiliation in education.
2)	Any Professional Activity that is of a religious or political nature is not eligible for credit.
3)	Professional activities may be accumulated during the period required for each salary increment.
4)	A memorandum from a person who can verify the activity must be attached to the signed Verification for Equivalent Credit Form and submitted to the Professional Growth Office for approval prior to requesting an additional increment. Verifying memorandums should include: a| Name and description of the Professional Activity, and b) statement verifying one (1) year’s work in that activity.
e.	Conferences, Institutes, and Professional Organization Meetings
37-5
7/00
Maximum credit - Three (3) semester hours within each increment on the salaiy scale.
Ratio = 35:1 Unpaid
1)	Equivalent credit is granted for attendance at one or several conferences, institutes, seminars, clinics, and professional meetings which total a minimum of thirty-five (35) clock hours of participation.
2)	The thirty-five (35) hours may be accumulated during the period of each salary increment.
3)	Each participant keeps his/her own attendance sheet. Any number of conferences may be accumulated to total thirty-five (35) clock hours or one (1) semester hour.
4)	All conferences, institutes, etc. must be directly related to the participant’s current assignment or professional affiliation.
5)	No Professional Growth Credit will be given when released time is granted.
6)	No Professional Growth Credit will be given when any kind of district reimbursement is granted other than payment of registration fees/tuition.
7)	The participant’s own attendance sheet must be attached to the signed Verification for Equivalent Credit Form for each year and submitted to the Professional Growth Office for approval prior to requesting an additional increment.
8)	Any committee that is of a religious or political nature is not eligible for credit.
G.	APPEAL PROCESS
1.	In the event that the Professional Growth Committee disapproves any request for credit or verification letters, the rationale for disapproval shall be transmitted to the employee.
2.	If the employee submits a request in writing for reconsideration of a disapproval, an appeal hearing shall be granted by the Professional Growth Committee at which the request shall be reconsidered.
3.	The Professional Growth Committee shall inform the employee of its decision in writing after the appeal hearing.
4._________In the event the employee is not in agreement with the Professional Growth ___________	Committee decision, s/he may then appeal in writing to the Assistant Superintendent for Instruction/designee.
5.	A second level appeal hearing will be held at a mutually agreeable time by the Assistant Superintendent of Instruction/Designee. The employee and the Professional Growth Chair will be present at the hearing.
61	The Assistant Superintendent for Instruction/designee shall inform the employee in writing of his/her decision after the second level appeal hearing with a copy of the decision sent to the members of the Professional Growth Committee Members.
7.	There is no further level of appeal.
37-6
7/00
H.	PROCEDURE FOR FINAL APPROVAL OF 15-, 30-, 45-, AND 75-HOUR INCREMENTS
1.	Final approval for the 15-hour, 30-hour, 45-hour, 60-hour, and 75-hour increments shall be made on academic and equivalent credit after the employee requesting the additional increment submits a Credit Evaluation Form and must supply official transcripts and/or grade card(s) covering those courses which have been completed and approved by Professional Growth. Verification of District academic courses must be made by an official Certificate of Completion.
2.	Those courses which are in progress, or courses that will be taken after the interview and before the termination date of completion (completed prior to September 1), must also be verified with the Professional Growth Office by official transcript and/or grade card(s). This may be done in person or by mail after the course work has been completed and transcripts and/or grade card(s) received.
3.	Employees completing the requirements for an increment before September 1, will have their contracts rewritten to reflect the earned increment provided proof of the completion of requirements (verification forms, transcripts and/or grade card(s), and certificates of completion) for the increment is submitted to the Professional Growth Office prior to November 1.
4.	Work must be completed prior to September 1. Verification forms, transcripts and/or grade card(s), and certificates of completion must be submitted to the Professional Growth Office prior to November 1.
5.	Other than provided in 3) and 4) above, any apparent errors in the contractual amounts must be brought to the attention of the Employee Relations Office prior to October 1 of any school year, or within 90 days after receipt if the contract is received after September 1 of the school year.
I. GENERAL
1.	The Professional Growth Operating Procedures and Professional Growth
Handbook contain detailed information and provide direction to the Professional Growth Committee in approving/disapproving credit for Professional Growth. This information is available in the Principal’s office.
37-7
7/00
CEA PROFESSIONAL GROWTH MINI-PROCEDURES FOR EQUIVALENT CREDIT
Equivalent credit in lieu of academic units may be accepted up to and including 6 semester hours in each 15-hour increment.
Procedures For AU Categories
♦	Submit Verification Memorandum For Equivalent Credit form
♦	Relate activity to current position (where applicable)
•	Submit verification after completion of activity
•	Attach verifying documents to verification form
Please refer to CEA Handbook for official regulations and to the Professional Growth Operating Procedures.
District Committees
Maximum Credit: 6 semester hours
Ratio: 35:1 Unpaid
Special Reouirements:
•	Must have at least 3 people
•	Local campus committees may petition for credit
•	Attendance will be required
•	One additional credit for chair
•	Must submit committee request each year
•	Committee verification
City. County, State, or National Committees
Maximum Credit: 2 semester hours Ratio: 35:1 Unpaid Special Requirements:
•	Must have at least 3 people
•	No credit for religious nature or political nature
•	Must submit separate request each year
•	Verification must be submitted
Conferences. Institutes. & Professional Organizational Meetings
Maximum Credit: 3 semester hours
Ratio: 35:1 Unpaid
Special Requirements:
•	Any number conferences, institutes, & professional organizational meetings may be used to accumulate the 35 hours total
•	No credit when released time is granted
•	No credit when district reimbursement is granted (other than registration fees)
•	Attach verification memo to attendance sheet signed by authorized representative
Professional Activities
Maximum Credit: 3 semester hours
Ratio: 35:1 Unpaid
Special Requirements:
•	Part of professional affiliation in education
•	No credit for religious nature or political nature
•	Verification must be submitted
37-8
7/00
SECTION
38
IN-SERVICE EDUCATION
A.	Employees will attend and participate in District workshops, conferences^ meetings, etc., which are organized or promoted by the District and which are applicable to the employee’s position and/or growth. These workshops, conferences, and meetings will be scheduled during normal work hours whenever possible. For meetings not conducted during normal work hours attendance will be voluntaiy.
B.	New employee orientation as to conditions of work, benefits, etc. will be coordinated through the Employee Relations Office. The Employee Relations Office shall distribute to each new employee a copy of the current Classified Employees Association Handbook prior to the new employee’s first day of work in the District.
C.	New employees should receive job orientation from the appropriate person in relation to the position being assumed.
7/00 (Revised 8/03)
38-1
SECTION
Employee Training
This section is being revised in total. Therefore, current wording is not applicable at this time.
CEA President
39-1
7/00
SECTION
40
Chief Assignments
A. The following craft areas require a chief. Any crafts in addition to these will be assigned to one of these craft areas as determined by the appropriate administrator/ supervisor.
Carpenter
Electrician
Equipment Mechanic
Glazier
Grounds Equipment Operator
Locksmith
Machine Shop
Painter
Plumber
Refrigeration Mechanic
Sheetmetal
Vehicle Mechanic
Welder
40-1
7/00
SECTION
41
Bulletin Boards
A bulletin board shall be placed in each school or work area where classified employees normally assemble, which may be used by employee groups for posting the following types of notices:
Recreational and social affairs.
Election notices and results.
Meeting dates and times.
New publications.
All legislation vital to the interest of employees and education.
Job openings.
41-1
7/00
SECTION
42
Mileage and Auto Liability
A.	An employee who is required to travel from one location to another during a work period shall be paid at his/her regular rate of pay for time spent in such travel.
B.	Employees are encouraged to use school district vehicles to conduct all school business to insure adequate auto liability coverage. Employees are not required to use personal vehicles; however, if they choose to use personal vehicles it will be at the employees own risk in accord with the following advisement:
When employees use their own personal vehicle for any district related business, the employee’s insurance carrier is responsible for any claim up to the limit of their policy. The district’s liability insurance policy will be responsible for any claim in excess of the employees personal insurance. This coverage is subject to change based upon change in coverage in the contract between the provider and the district.
C.	Employees using personal vehicles for district related business, after having their name placed on the approved mileage payment list, will be paid mileage by separate check at the district current approved mileage rate which will be equal to the State Government mileage rate.
7/00
42-1
/’
Employee Relations
SSSS/MBSS RANGE CROSSWALK: ABBREVIATED (as of 7/15/04)
Position Code	Position Title	Class	SSSS Range	MBSS			
				Range	’ Min	। Mid	1 Max
3004	Account Clerk	Accounting	18	32	: $11.08	1 $13.85	i $16.62
3008	Account Clerk/Senior	Accounting	2C	36	. $12.23	i $15.2!	1 $18.34
3012	Account Technician	Accounting	2C	36	$12.23	$15.2!	1 $18.34
3016	Account Technician Finance/Senior	Accounting	21	38	i $12.85	. $16.0!	• $19.27
3014	Account Technician Food Service/Senior	Accounting	21	38	: $12.85	> $16.06	> $19.27
3009	Account Technician/Senior	Accounting	21	38	$12.85	$16.06	• $19.27
3472	Administrative Specialist	Office Support	21	38	$12.85	$16.06	► $19.27
3478	Assistant to the Principal	Office Support	21	38	$12.85	$16.06	• $19.27
3005	Assistive Technology Assistant, ESP	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	17	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3024	Attendance Residence Specialist	Attendance and Recordkeeping	24	45	$15.27	$19.09	’ $22.90
3386	Binder/Priritshop	Reprographics	14	27	$9.79	$12.24	1 $14.69
3028	Bookstore Assistant	Bookstore/Student Store	15	23	$8.87	$11.09	• $13.30
3032	Bookstore Manager	Bookstore/Student Store	19	32	$11.08	$13.85	> $16.62
3222	Budget Specialist	-	Accounting	23	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3223	Budget/Student Accounting Technician	Accounting	22	40	$13.50	$16.87	$20.24
3037	Building Maint. Worker/Lead	Campus Maintenance	21	39	$13.17	$16.46	$19.75
3036	Building Maintenance Worker	Campus Maintenance	19	35	$11.93	$14.91	$17.89
3038	Bus Assistant	Transportation Services	12	19	$8.04	$10.04	$12.05
3040	Bus Driver	Transportation Services	17	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3044	Bus Service Worker	Transportation Services	19	33	$11.35	$14.19	$17.03
3060	Cafeteria Manager	Food Services	19	35	$11.93	$14.91	$17.89
3064	Campus Facility Supervisor	Campus Maintenance	26	49	$16.85	$21.07	$25.28
3061	Campus Lab Technician	Computer Support	19	34	$11.64	$14.55	$17.46
3062	Campus Operations Worker	Campus Maintenance		16	25	$9.32	$11.65	$13.98
3066	Campus Technology Specialist	Computer Support	24	45	$15.27	$19.09	$22.90
3067	Campus Testing Coordinator	Testing	17	34	$11.64	$14.55	$17.46
3072	Carpenter	Trades Maintenance	22	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3076	Carpenter/Chief	Trades Maintenance	23	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3090	Child Care Assistant	Child Care	12	18	$7.84	$9.80	$11.76
3092	Child Care Assistant/Lead	Child Care	13	20	$8.24	$10.30	$12.35
3091	Child Care Center Director	Child Care	23	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3112	Community Assistant	Office Support	12	23	$8.87	$11.09	$13.30
3283	Community Liaison	Student Programs	16	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3100	Community Relations Specialist	Student Programs	26	48	$16.44	$20.55	$24.67
3114	Community Skills/lnstructional Assistant	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	17	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3111	Competency Based Guidance Assistant	Student Programs	13	24	$9.09	$11.36	$13.64
3120	Computer Lab Assistant	Computer Support	16	28	$10.04	$12.54	$15.05
3122	Computer Network Technician	Computer Support	24	45	$15.27	$19.09	$22.90
3034	Computer Operator/Assistant	Computer Support	15	23	$8.87	$11.09	$13.30
3124	Computer Operator/Lead	Computer Support	21	37	$12.53	$15.67	$18.80
3305	Computer Repair Technician/Lead	Computer Support	24	45	$15.27	$19.09	$22.90
3303	Computer Repair Technician/Senior	Computer Support	23	43	$14.53	$18.17	$21.80
3035	Computer Support Manager	Computer Support	22	41	$13.83	$17.29	$20.75
3030	Computer Support Specialist	Computer Support	20	35	$11.93	$14.91	$17.89
3180	Construction Project Specialist	Trades Maintenance	23	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3052	Contract Management Specialist	Contract Management	22	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3053	Contract Management Specialist/Senior	Contract Management	23	48	$16.44	$20.55	$24.67
3048	Contract Mgmt/Asst Food Service	Contract Management	20	41	$13.83	$17.29	$20.75
3317	Contract Security Service Assistant	Campus Security	17	34	$11.64	$14.55	$17.46
3136	Cook	Food Services	14	25	$9.32	$11.65	$13.98
3142	Credentials Specialist	Attendance and Recordkeeping	18	30	$10.54	$13.18	$15.81
3143	Culinary Arts Assistant	Food Services	13	20	$8.24	$10.30	$12.35
3149	Curriculum Evaluation Technician	Testing	23	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3144	Custodians	Campus Maintenance	16	25	$9.32	$11.65	$13.98
3148	Custodians/Lead	Campus Maintenance	18	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3152	Data Entry Operator	Office Support	17	28	$10.04	$12.54	$15.05
3160	Developer of Services for Homeless Students	Student Programs	26	51	$17.71	$22.13	$26.56
3299	District Maintenance Specialist	Office Support	19	32	$11.08	$13.85	$16.62
3026	District Media Service Specialist	Library Support	19	37	$12.53	$15.67	$18.80
3027	District Testing Liaison	Testing	21	43	$14.53	$18.17	$21.80
3086	District/Alternative Site Maintenance Supervisor	Campus Maintenance	24	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3182	Dropout Program Developer	Student Programs	22	38	$12.85	$16.06	$19.27
3188	Electrician	Trades Maintenance	22	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3192	Electrician/Chief	Trades Maintenance	23	48	$16.44	$20.55	$24.67
3300	Electronic Equipment Technician	Trades Maintenance	22	42	$14.18	$17.72	$21.27
3191	Electronic Equipment Technician/Senior	Trades Maintenance	24	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3195	Electronics Program Assistant	Student Programs	16	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3380	Employee Benefits Specialist	Personnel Services	23	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3288	Equipment Mechanic	Vehicle/Equipment Maintenance	22	43	$14.53	$18.17	$21.80
3292	Equipment Mechanic/Chief	Vehicle/Equipment Maintenance	23	45	$15.27	$19.09	$22.90
3215	ESL Student/Parent Liaison	Student Program	16	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3214	ESL Tester	Testing	19	36	$12.23	$15.28	$18.34
3113	Food Serv Lunch Program Clerk	Food Services	14	25	$9.32	$11.65	$13.98
3224	Food Services Field Supervisor	Food Services	20	39	$13.17	$16.46	$19.75
3225	Garde Manager	Food Services	22	43	$14.53	$18.17	$21.80
3228	General Craft Grds Maint/ Chief	Trades Maintenance	24	50	$17.28	$21.60	$25.91
3229	General Vehicle Mechanic/Chief	Vehicle/Equipment Maintenance	24	45	$15.27	$19.09	$22.90
3232	Glazier	Trades Maintenance	22	42	$14.18	$17.72	$21.27
3233	Glazier/Chief	Trades Maintenance	23	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3010	Grant Program Technician	Accounting	20	36	$12.23	$15.28	$18.34
3238	Grant Program Technician	Accounting	20	41	$13.83	$17.29	$20.75
3219	Grill Specialist	Food Services	13	20	$8.24	$10.30	$12.35
3245	Grounds Equipment Mechanic	Grounds Maintenance	22	41	$13.83	$17.29	$20.75
3236	Grounds Equipment Operator	Grounds Maintenance	22	41	$13.83	$17.29	$20.75
3240	Grounds Equipment Operator/Chief	Grounds Maintenance	23	43	$14.53	$18.17	$21.80
3248	Groundskeeper	Grounds Maintenance	16	27	$9.79	$12.24	$14.69
3249	Hearing /Vision Tester	Student Programs	17	34	$11.64	$14.55	$17.46
3138	Hospitality Coordinator	i	Food Services	17	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3251	HVAC Maintenance Mechanic	Trades Maintenance	21	42 !	$14.18 !	$17.72	$21.27
3556	Information Processing Operator	1	Office Support	16	28 !	$10.04 !	$12.54	$15.05
3560	Information Processing Operator/Senior	1	Office Support	18	32	$11.08 !	$13.85 •	$16.62
3256	Instructional Assistant	1	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	16	27	$9.79 !	$12.24 !	$14.69
3259	Instructional Assistant/Desi	1	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	17	31 !	$10.81 !	$13.51 :	$16.21
3270	Instructional Assistant/Fusion	1	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	16	27	$9.79 !	$12.24	$14.69
3186	Interpreter, Sign Language	1	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	16	35 '	$11.93 !	$14.91 !	$17.89
3271	Interpreter/Receptionist	1	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	15	31 !	$10.81 !	$13.51 !	$16,21
3257	Job Developer/Placement Assistant	!	Student Programs	17	34 !	511.64 1	$14.55	$17.46
3258	Jobs'ln-industry Assistant	!	Student Programs	13	24	$9.09 !	$11.36 :	$13.64
3168	Kitchen Assistant	1	Food Services	11	16	$7.46	$9.33 !	$11.19
Page 1 of 2
Printed 9/13/2004 at 10:39 AM
Employee Relations
SSSS/MBSS RANGE CROSSWALK: ABBREVIATED (as of 7/15/04)
Position Code	Position Title	Class	SSSS Range	MUSS			
				Range	Min	Mid	Max
3279	Library Technician	Library Support		19	29	$10.29	$12.86	$15.43
3280	Locksmith	Trades Maintenance	22	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3284	Locksmith/Chief	Trades Maintenance	23	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3036	Maintenance Technician	Campus Maintenance	20	37	$12.53	$15.67	$18.80
3255	Material Handler 1	Wharehouse/Materials	14	28	$10.04	$12.54	$15.05
3424	Material Handler II	Wharehouse/Materials	15	30	$10.54	$13.18	$15.81
3519	Material Handler IB	Wharehouse/Materials	18	34	$11.64	$14.55	$17.46
3439	Material Handler IV	Wharehouse/Materials	19	38	$12.85	$16.06	$19.27
3304	Media Technician	Library Support	15	21	$8.44	$10.55	$12.66
3306	Migrant Student Specialist	Student Programs	18	36	$12.23	$15.28	$18.34
3318	Native American Student Advisor	Student Programs	16	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3320	Network System Specialist	Information Technology/ Systems	26	49	$16.85	$21.07	$25.28
3464	Office Assistant	Office Support -	17	28	$10.04	$12.54	$15.05
3470	Office Assistant/ESP	Office Support	18	32	$11.08	$13.85	$16.62
3468	Office Assistant/Senior	Office Support	19	32	$11.08	$13.85	$16.62
3344	Offset Operator	Reprographics	19	37	$12.53	$15.67	$18.80
3348	Offset Operator/Lead	Reprographics	21	41	$13.83	$17.29	$20.75
3346	Offset Operator/Senior	Reprographics	20	39	$13.17	$16.46	$19.75
3352	Painter	Trades Maintenance	22	42	$14.18	$17.72	$21.27
3356	Painter/Chief	Trades Maintenance	23	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3350	Parts Coordinator	Wharehouse/Materials	15	30	$10.54	$13.18	$15.81
3363	Payroll Clerk	Payroll Services	17	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3362	Payroll Technician	Payroll Services	20	36	$12.23	$15.28	$18.34
3372	PE/Athletic Equipment Manager	Athletic	14	28	$10.04	$12.54	$15.05
3260	Personal Asristant/TMH/ED/MH	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	14	23	$8.87	$11.09	$13.30
3377	Personnel Associate	Personnel Services	19	35	$11.93	$14.91	$17.89
3376	Personnel Service Assistant	Personnel Services	18	33	$11.35	$14.19	$17.03
3378	Personnel Service Clerk	Personnel Services	16	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3382	Personnel Specialist	Personnel Services	22	41	$13.83	$17.29	$20.75
3383	Pesticide/Herbicide Technician	Grounds Maintenance	22	38	$12.85	$16.06	$19.27
3381	Pestidde/Herbicide Technidan/Lead	Grounds Maintenance	23	42	$14.18	$17.72	$21.27
3385	Pesticide/Herbicide Technidan/Lead	Grounds Maintenance	0	42	$14.18	$17.72	$21.27
3384	Photo Technician	Reprographics	19	37	$12.53	$15.67	$18.80
3388	Plumber	Trades Maintenance	22	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3392	Plumber/Chief	Trades Maintenance	23	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3398	Program Assistant Alternative Program	Office Support	17	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3415	Program Assistant Perkins Grant	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	17	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3408	Programmer Analyst	Information Technology/ Systems	25	47	$16.04	$20.05	$24.06
3425	Public Relations Representative	Public Relations	23	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3455	Quality Assurance Technical Specialist	Campus Maintenance	TBD	TBD	TBD	TBD	TBD
3033	Records Clerk	Attendance and Recordkeeping	13	18	$7.84	$9.80	$11.76
3426	Records Retrieval Clerk	Attendance and Recordkeeping	16	25	$9.32	$11.65	$13.98
3441	Refinish/Sprayer Spedalist	Trades Maintenance	23	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3428	Refrigeration Mechanic	Trades Maintenance	22	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3432	Refrigeration Mechanic/Chief	Trades Maintenance	23	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3440	Registrar	Attendance and Recordkeeping	21	38	$12.85	$16.06	$19.27
3018	Registrar/Alternative Programs	Attendance and Recordkeeping	19	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3023	Registration Clerk	Attendance and Recordkeeping	16	25	$9.32	$11.65	$13.98
3442	Registration Office Assistant	Attendance and Recordkeeping	18	30	$10.54	$13.18	$15,81
3184	Reproduction Equipment Operator	Office Support	14	24	$9.09	$11.36	$13.64
3400	Research Analyst	Research	28	54	$19.07	$23.84	$28.60
3452	Research Comp Sys Mgr/Analyst	Research	28	54	$19.07	$23.84	$28.60
3454	Research Systems Specialist/Senior	Research	25	47	$16.04	$20.05	$24.06
3457	Safety Technician	Safety	20	35	$11.93	$14.91	$17.89
3458	Sanitation Truck Operator	Equipment Operation	20	39	$13.17	$16.46	$19.75
3330	School Health Center Clerk	Student Programs	12	23	$8.87	$11.09	$13.30
3496	Security Alarm Technidan	Alarm	22	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3497	Security Alarm Technician/Senior	Alarm	24	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3480	Security Assistant	Campus Security	16	27	$9.79	$12.24	$14.69
3484	Security Assistant/Lead	Campus Security	18	33	$11.35	$14.19	$17.03
3315	Security Assistant/Senior	Campus Security	17	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3221	Senior Budget Technician	Accounting	23	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3500	Service Assistant	Office Support	13	21	$8.44	$10.55	$12.66
	3435	Service Assistant/Special Education	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	13	21	$8.44	$10.55	$12.66
3504	Sheet Metal Worker	Trades Maintenance	22	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3508	Sheet Metal Worker/Chief	Trades Maintenance	23	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
3416	SPED Records Retrieval Clerk/lnterpreter	Attendance and Recordkeeping	16	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3417	SPED Research and Records Technidan	Attendance and Recordkeeping	20	37	$12.53	$15.67	$18.80
3516	Stores Clerk	Wharehouse/ Materials	18	37	$12.53	$15.67	$18.80
3220	Student Activities Assistant	Accounting	22	38	$12.85	$16.06	$19.27
3282	Student Liaison	Student Programs	16	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3521	Student Store Assistant	Bookstore/Student Store	15	23	$8.87	$11.09	$13.30
3253	Student Study Facilitator	Instructional Assistance and Student Support	15	29	$10.29	$12.86	$15.43
3515	Substitute Systems Specialist	Personnel Services	18	33	$11.35	$14.19	$17.03
3524	System Analyst	Information Technology/ Systems	27	51	$17.71	$22.13	$26.56
3527	System Engineer	Information Technology/ Systems	25	47	$16.04	$20.05	$24,06
3525	System Manager	Information Technology/ Systems	29	56	$20.03	$25.04	$30.05
3526	System Programmer	Information Technology/ Systems	28	54	$19.07	$23.84	$28.60
3530	Technical Specialist	Information Technology/ Systems	26	49	$16.85	$21.07	$25.28
3529	Testing Facilitator	Testing	17	34	$11.64	$14.55	$17.46
3528	Transportation Dispatcher	Transportation Services	20	35	$11.93	$14.91	$17.89
3570	Transportation Service Assistant	Transportation Services	17	29	$10.29	$12.86	$15.43
3532	Truck Driver	Equipment Operation	17	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3536	Truck Driver/Base Kitchen	Equipment Operation	17	31	$10.81	$13.51	$16.21
3531	Vehicle Mechanic	Vehicle/Equipment Maintenance	22	43	$14.53	$18.17	$21.80
3263	Vision Resource	Student Programs	15	29	$10.29	$12.86	$15.43
3575	Virion Resource Assistant	Student Program	15	29	$10.29	$12.86	$15.43
3541	Vocational Assessment Placement Spedalist	Vocational Assistance	26	51	$17.71	$22.13	$26.56
3537	Vocational Assessment Technidan	Vocational Assistance	15	25	$9.32	$11.65	$13.98
3542	Vocational Business Office Assistant	Office Support	17	28	$10.04	$12.54	$15.05
3544	Welder	Trades Maintenance	22	44	$14.90	$18.62	$22.35
3548	Welder/Chief	Trades Maintenance	23	46	$15.65	$19.56	$23.48
Page 2 of 2
Printed 9/13/2004 at 10:39 AM
2004-2005 SUPPORT SERVICES SALARY SCHEDULE (Revised 7/14/04 to correct 10-month salaries; Revised 9/13/04 to add step "Old 7".) This schedule applies to continuing classified employees who were at step 6 or below in 2003-2004 and did not change jobs. Step "Old 7" applies to employees who were at Step 7 in 03-04; these employees would now be on the Market-Based Salary Schedule. Step "New T applies to employees who moved to Step 7 in 04-05.
Steps	_______Professional Growth
Range	1	2	3	4	5	6	New 7	Old 7			2	3
21 Hourly Rate»	$12.43	$12.80	$13.59	$14.39	$15.25	$16.17	$17.15	$17.98	$19.06	$20.21	$21.43
9 months	$20,783	$21,402	$22,722	$24,060	$25,498	$27,036	$28,675	$30,063	$31,868	$33,791	$35,831
10 months	$22,772	$23,450	$24,897	$26,362	$27,938	$29,623	$31,419	$32,939	$34,918	$37,025	$39,260
12 months	$25,954	$26,726	$28,376	$30,046	$31,842	$33,763	$35,809	$37,542	$39,797	$42,198	$44,746
22 Hourly Rate»	$13.19	$13.59	$14.39	$15.25	$16.17	$17.15	$18.19	$19.06	$20.21	$21.43	$22.72
9 months	$22,054	$22,722	$24,060	$25,498	$27,036	$28,675	$30,414	$31,868	$33,791	$35,831	$37,988
10 months	$24,164	$24,897	$26,362	$27,938	$29,623	$31,419	$33,324	$34,918	$37,025	$39,260	$41,623
12 months	$27,541	$28,376	$30,046	$31,842	$33,763	$35,809	$37,981	$39,797	$42,198	$44,746	$47,439
23 Hourly Rate»	$13.97	$14.39	$15.25	$16.17	$17.15	$18.19	$19.27	$20.21	$21.43	$22.72	$24.08
9 months	$23,358	$24,060	$25,498	$27,036	$28,675	$30,414	$32,219	$33,791	$35,831	$37,988	$40,262
10 months	$25,593	$26,362	$27,938	$29,623	$31,419	$33,324	$35,303	$37,025	$39,260	$41,623	$44,115
12 months	$29,169	$30,046	$31,842	$33,763	$35,809	$37,981	$40,236	$42,198	$44,746	$47,439	$50,279
24 Hourly Rate»	$14.81	$15.25	$16.17	$17.15	$18.19	$19.27	$20.42	$21.43	$22.72	$24.08	$25.53
9 months	$24,762	$25,498	$27,036	$28,675	$30,414	$32,219	$34,142	$35,831	$37,988	$40,262	$42,686
10 months	$27,132	$27,938	$29,623	$31,419	$33,324	$35,303	$37,409	$39,260	$41,623	$44,115	$46,771
12 months	$30,923	$31,842	$33,763	$35,809	$37,981	$40,236	$42,637	$44,746	$47,439	$50,279	$53,307
25 Hourly Rate»	$15.70	$16.17	$17.15	$18.19	$19.27	$20.42	$21.63	$22.72	$24.08	$25.53	$27.04
9 months	$26,250	$27,036	$28,675	$30,414	$32,219	$34,142	$36,165	$37,988	$40,262	$42,686	$45,211
10 months	$28,762	$29,623	$31,419	$33,324	$35,303	$37,409	$39,626	$41,623	$44,115	$46,771	$49,537
12 months	$32,782	$33,763	$35,809	$37,981	$40,236	$42,637	$45,163	$47,439	$50,279	$53,307	$56,460
26 Hourly Rate»	$16.65	$17.15	$18.19	$19.27	$20.42	$21.63	$22.95	$24.08	$25.53	$27.04	$28.67
9 months	$27,839	$28,675	$30,414	$32,219	$34,142	$36,165	$38,372	$40,262	$42,686	$45,211	$47,936
10 months	$30,503	$31,419	$33,324	$35,303	$37,409	$39,626	$42,044	$44,115	$46,771	$49,537	$52,523
12 months	$34,765	$35,809	$37,981	$40,236	$42,637	$45,163	$47,920	$50,279	$53,307	$56,460	$59,863
27 Hourly Rate>>	$17.66	$18.19	$19.27	$20.42	$21.63	$22.95	$24.32	$25.53	$27.04	$28.67	$30.40
9 months	$29,528	$30,414	$32,219	$34,142	$36,165	$38,372	$40,663	$42,686	$45,211	$47,936	$50,829
10 months	$32,353	$33,324	$35,303	$37,409	$39,626	$42,044	$44,554	$46,771	$49,537	$52,523	$55,693
12 months	$36,874	$37,981	$40,236	$42,637	$45,163	$47,920	$50,780	$53,307	$56,460	$59,863	$63,475
28 Hourly Rate»	$18.71	$19.27	$20.42	$21.63	$22.95	$24.32	$25.79	$27.04	$28.67	$30.40	$32.23
9 months	$31,283	$32,219	$34,142	$36,165	$38,372	$40,663	$43,121	$45,211	$47,936	$50,829	$53,889
10 months	$34,277	$35,303	$37,409	$39,626	$42,044	$44,554	$47,247	$49,537	$52,523	$55,693	$59,045
12 months	$39,066	$40,236	$42,637	$45,163	$47,920	$50,780	$53,850	$56,460	$59,863	$63,475	$67,296
29 Hourly Rate»	$19.83	$20.42	$21.63	$22.95	$24.32	$25.79	$27.32	$28.67	$30.40	$32.23	$34.15
9 months	$33,156	$34,142	$36,165	$38,372	$40,663	$43,121	$45,679	$47,936	$50,829	$53,889	$57,099
10 months	$36,329	$37,409	$39,626	$42,044	$44,554	$47,247	$50,050	$52,523	$55,693	$59,045	$62,563
12 months	$41,405	$42,637	$45,163	$47,920	$50,780	$53,850	$57,044	$59,863	$63,475	$67,296	$71,305
30 Hourly Rate>>	$21.00	$21.63	$22.95	$24.32	$25.79	$27.32	$28.96	$30.40	$32.23	$34.15	$36.19
9 months	$35,112	$36,165	$38,372	$40,663	$43,121	$45,679	$48,421	$50,829	$53,889	$57,099	$60,510
10 months	$38,472	$39,626	$42,044	$44,554	$47,247	$50,050	$53,055	$55,693	$59,045	$62,563	$66,300
12 months	$43,848	$45,163	$47,920	$50,780	$53,850	$57,044	$60,468	$63,475	$67,296	$71,305	$75,565
Page 2 of 2
Printed 9/13/2004 at 11:02 AM
2004-2005 SUPPORT SERVICES SALARY SCHEDULE (Revised 7/14/04 to correct 10-month salaries; Revised 9/13/04 to add step “Old 7\) This schedule applies to continuing classified employees who were at step 6 or below in 2003-2004 and did not change jobs. Step "Old T applies to employees who were at Step 7 in 03-04; these employees would now be on the Market-Based Salary Schedule. Step “New T applies to employees who moved to Step 7 in 04-05.
Steps	_______Professional Growth
Range	1	2	3	4	5	6	New 7	Old 7		1_	2	3
10 Hourly Rate»	$6.56	$6.76	$7.16	$7.59	$8.03	$8.53	$9.02	$9.48	$10.05	$10.65	$11.29
9 months	$10,968	$11,303	$11,972	$12,690	$13,426	$14,262	$15,081	$15,851	$16,804	$17,807	$18,877
10 months	$12,018	$12,384	$13,117	$13,905	$14,711	$15,627	$16,525	$17,367	$18,412	$19,511	$20,683
12 months	$13,697	$14,115	$14,950	$15,848	$16,767	$17,811	$18,834	$19,794	$20,984	$22,237	$23,574
11 Hourly Rate»	$6.95	$7.16	$7.59	$8.03	$8.53	$9.02	$9.57	$10.05	$10.65	$11.29	$11.97
9 months	$11,620	$11,972	$12,690	$13,426	$14,262	$15,081	$16,001	$16,804	$17,807	$18,877	$20,014
10 months	$12,732	$13,117	$13,905	$14,711	$15,627	$16,525	$17,532	$18,412	$19,511	$20,683	$21,929
12 months	$14,512	$14,950	$15,848	$16,767	$17,811	$18,834	$19,982	$20,984	$22,237	$23,574	$24,993
12 Hourly Rate»	$7.37	$7.59	$8.03	$8.53	$9.02	$9.57	$10.15	$10.65	$11.29	$11.97	$12.69
9 months	$12,323	$12,690	$13,426	$14,262	$15,081	$16,001	$16,971	$17,807	$18,877	$20,014	$21,218
10 months	$13,502	$13,905	$14,711	$15,627	$16,525	$17,532	$18,595	$19,511	$20,683	$21,929	$23,248
12 months	$15,389	$15,848	$16,767	$17,811	$18,834	$19,982	$21,193	$22,237	$23,574	$24,993	$26,497
13 Hourly Rate>>	$7.80	$8.03	$8.53	$9.02	$9.57	$10.15	$10.74	$11.29	$11.97	$12.67	$13.44
9 months	$13,042	$13,426	$14,262	$15,081	$16,001	$16,971	$17,957	$18,877	$20,014	$21,184	$22,472
10 months	$14,290	$14,711	$15,627	$16,525	$17,532	$18,595	$19,676	$20,683	$21,929	$23,211	$24,622
12 months	$16,286	$16,767	$17,811	$18,834	$19,982	$21,193	$22,425	$23,574	$24,993	$26,455	$28,063
14 Hourly Rate»	$8.28	$8.53	$9.02	$9.57	$10.15	$10.74	$11.40	$11.97	$12.67	$13.44	$14.26
9 months	$13,844	$14,262	$15,081	$16,001	$16,971	$17,957	$19,061	$20,014	$21,184	$22,472	$23,843
10 months	$15,169	$15,627	$16,525	$17,532	$18,595	$19,676	$20,885	$21,929	$23,211	$24,622	$26,124
12 months	$17,289	$17,811	$18,834	$19,982	$21,193	$22,425	$23,803	$24,993	$26,455	$28,063	$29,775
15 Hourly Rate»	$8.76	$9.02	$9.57	$10.15	$10.74	$11.40	$12.09	$12.67	$13.44	$14.26	$15.11
9 months	$14,647	$15,081	$16,001	$16,971	$17,957	$19,061	$20,214	$21,184	$22,472	$23,843	$25,264
10 months	$16,048	$16,525	$17,532	$18,595	$19,676	$20,885	$22,149	$23,211	$24,622	$26,124	$27,682
12 months	$18,291	$18,834	$19,982	$21,193	$22,425	$23,803	$25,244	$26,455	$28,063	$29,775	$31,550
16 Hourly Rate»	$9.29	$9.57	$10.15	$10.74	$11.40	$12.09	$12.80	$13.44	$14.26	$15.11	$16.00
9 months	$15,533	$16,001	$16,971	$17,957	$19,061	$20,214	$21,402	$22,472	$23,843	$25,264	$26,752
10 months	$17,019	$17,532	$18,595	$19,676	$20,885	$22,149	$23,450	$24,622	$26,124	$27,682	$29,312
12 months	$19,398	$19,982	$21,193	$22,425	$23,803	$25,244	$26,726	$28,063	$29,775	$31,550	$33,408
17 Hourly Rate»	$9.85	$10.15	$10.74	$11.40	$12.09	$12.80	$13.59	$14.26	$15.11	$16.00	$16.98
9 months	$16,469	$16,971	$17,957	$19,061	$20,214	$21,402	$22,722	$23,843	$25,264	$26,752	$28,391
10 months	$18,045	$18,595	$19,676	$20,885	$22,149	$23,450	$24,897	$26,124	$27,682	$29,312	$31,107
12 months	$20,567	$21,193	$22,425	$23,803	$25,244	$26,726	$28,376	$29,775	$31,550	$33,408	$35,454
18 Hourly Rate»	$10.43	$10.74	$11.40	$12.09	$12.80	$13.59	$14.39	$15.11	$16.00	$16.98	$17.98
9 months	$17,439	$17,957	$19,061	$20,214	$21,402	$22,722	$24,060	$25,264	$26,752	$28,391	$30,063
10 months	$19,108	$19,676	$20,885	$22,149	$23,450	$24,897	$26,362	$27,682	$29,312	$31,107	$32,939
12 months	$21,778	$22,425	$23,803	$25,244	$26,726	$28,376	$30,046	$31,550	$33,408	$35,454	$37,542
19 Hourly Rate»	$11.07	$11.40	$12.09	$12.80	$13.59	$14.39	$15.25	$16.00	$16.98	$17.98	$19.06
9 months	$18,509	$19,061	$20,214	$21,402	$22,722	$24,060	$25,498	$26,752	$28,391	$30,063	$31,868
10 months	$20,280	$20,885	$22,149	$23,450	$24,897	$26,362	$27,938	$29,312	$31,107	$32,939	$34,918
12 months	$23,114	$23,803	$25,244	$26,726	$28,376	$30,046	$31,842	$33,408	$35,454	$37,542	$39,797
20 Hourly Rate»	$11.74	$12.09	$12.80	$13.59	$14.39	$15.25	$16.17	$16.98	$17.98	$19.06	$20.21
9 months	$19,629	$20,214	$21,402	$22,722	$24,060	$25,498	$27,036	$28,391	$30,063	$31,868	$33,791
10 months	$21,508	$22,149	$23,450	$24,897	$26,362	$27,938	$29,623	$31,107	$32,939	$34,918	$37,025
12 months	$24,513	$25,244	$26,726	$28,376	$30,046	$31,842	$33,763	$35,454	$37,542	$39,797	$42,198
Page 1 of 2
Printed 9/13/2004 at 11:02 AM
PHOENIX UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT 2004’2005 School Calendar - Revised 12-09-03 First Semester
Tuesday-Friday	August 3-6	Teacher Inservice
Monday	August 9	Classes Begin
Monday	September 6	* Labor Day
Friday	October 1	End of First Term
Monday-Friday	October 4-8	** Fall Recess
Thursday	November 11	* Veterans Day Recess
Thursday	November 25	* Thanksgiving Day
Friday	November 26	* Thanksgiving Recess
••• Wednesday, Thursday	December 15,	16	Semester Exams
Friday	December 17	Report Preparation - No Classes
Friday	December 17	End of Second Term/First Semester
		Second Semester
Monday-Friday	Dec. 20-31	* * * * Winter Recess
Monday	January 3	Classes Begin
Monday	January 17	* MLK/Civil Right's Day
Monday	February 21	* Presidents' Day
Friday	March 11	End of Third Term
Monday-Friday	March 14-18	Spring Recess
Friday	April 29	* * * * School Recess
Friday	May 20	Senior Exams
Tuesday, Wednesday	May 24, 25	Semester Exams
Wednesday	May 25	180th Day/Last Day of Classes
Thursday	May 26	Graduation Day
Thursday	May 26	Report Preparation - No Classes
Friday	May 27	Report Preparation - No Classes
Friday	May 27	End of Fourth Term/Second Semester
Friday	May 27	Last Day of 9 Month Contracts
Number of Teaching Days
Term 1 - 39 Days
Term 2 - 46 Days	Semester 1 - 85 Days
Teem 3 - 48 Days
Term 4-47 Days	Semester 2 - 95 Days
(180 Days)
*	Students and ad employees off.
*	* Students, 9, 9i/z, and appropriate 10 month employees.
Unpaid days for 9,9tzz, and appropriate 10 month employees.
*	• • Students. 9. 9vz. and appropriate 10 month employees.
This date is subject to change depending upon actual date of AEA Delegate Assembly.
* * * ’ All students and employees off except for those newly hired into 12-month administrative and exempt positions after 04/30/03.
Note: * AIMS admiristralioa (mathematics, writing and reading - grades 11 and 12). October 18-20, 2004
•	AIMS administration (writing - grades 10. 11. and 12). February 22.2005
•	Stanford 9 administration - March 15 - May 1.2005
•	AIMS administration (mathematics and reading - grades 10, 11. and 12). April 25-26. 2005 (Testing dates are subject to change).
Prepared by ITS on 3-26-03
Phoenix Union High School District
yiwitw IIJII^	.. Ml. ■■■■»■■	.I. .IM Hl   ■■i.imm     I,—1.1,
2004-2005 School Calendar - Revised 12/09/03
Month
1
2
3 ,
4
5
6
7 ’
8
9
10
11
. M T W T F					M T W T F					M T W T F.	M T W T F
Aug = ®‘SS® Aug Sep 30 31	1.2	3 Sep	Oct > 27 28 29 30 1 / Oct	' 25 26 27 28 29 Nov	.	1 22 23 24 m26| Dec	""RShh1*					9 10 11 12 13 111 7 8 9 10 ♦ ♦ ♦ • * ■ ♦					16	17	18	19	20 13	14	15	16	17 11	12	13	14	15 s 910 H12 6,7 8 9 10 Jan 3	4	5	6	7 Feb 31	1	2	3	4 Mar 28	1	. 2	3	4 Apr 28	29 ‘ 30.	31	.1 *♦ 25 26 27 28 [29] 13 £	23	24	25	26	27 20	21	22	23	24 18	19	20	21	22 15	16	17	18	19 13	N 10	11	12	13	14 7	8	9	10	11 7	8	9	10	1l/ 4	5	6	7	8 May 23.456 —June H 31 1 2 3
					4	5	6	7	8		
					Nov 1 2 3 4	5 Dec 29 30 1	2	3 								
20	21	22	23.	24	27	28	29	30	31		
Jah M 18 19 20 21 Feb 14 15 16 17 18 Mar						24 25 26 27 28 J 22 23 24 25 21 22 23 24 25 18 19 20 21 22 16 17 18 19						
14	15	16	17	18							
Apr 11 12 13 14 15 May 9 10 .11 12 13											
oared by ITS on 3-26-03
roved by Governing Board on 5-1-03
i: • AIMS administration (mathematics, writing and reading * grades 11 and 12), October 18-20, 2004
•	AIMS administration (writing • grades 10, 11, and 12), February 22, 2005
♦	Stanford 9 administration - March 15 • May 1,2005
•	AIMS administration (mathematics and reading • grades 10,11, and 12), April 25*26, 2005 (Testing dates are subject to change).
Count of Days
Days Taught	Teacher Duty Days
15	19
19	19
15	15
19	19
17	16
10	10
19	19
19	19
15	15
19	19
13	15
MMaaaaMNMi	
180	187
‘Students, 9, 9’^, and appropriate 10 month employees.
Unpaid days for 9, 9and appropriate 10 month employees.
“Students, 9, 95/2, and appropriate 10 month employees.
This date Is subject to change depending upon actual date of AEA Delegate Assembly, ““Students and all employees off except those hired Into 12-mbnth administrative and exempt positions after 04/30/03.
“‘Senior Exams.
5. TO REVIEW AN ABSENCE
From the Main Menu	Press 2
SubFinder will play your next scheduled absence, if any exist.
7. TO REVIEW PERSONAL INFORMATION
From the Main Menu	Press 4.
SubFinder will play the site where you work, your work times, your primary job position, and your name as recorded. To change your site, work times, or primary job position, contact the Principal’s Secretary.
To Hear the Absence Again	Press	2
To Hear the Next Absence	Press	3
To Cancel the Absence	Press	4
To Change the Special Instructions	Press	5
To Return to the Main Menu	Press	9
If you press 4, SubFinder will ask for confirmation.
To Confirm Cancellation	,	Press	1
Otherwise	Press	2
To Record Your Name	Press	1
To Record Your Itinerant Schedule	Press	2
To Return to the Main Menu	Press	9
If you press 1, wait for the tone and record your name. When you are finished, press the pound sign (#).
SubFinder will repeat your name. "
If Correct	Press 1
If Incorrect	Press 2
SubFinder System from CRS, INC.
CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEE INSTRUCTIONS 602-271-3501
If you press 5, record the new message after the’ tone. When you are finished, press the pound sign (#).
SubFinder will repeat the message.
If Correct	Press 1
If Incorrect	Press 2
If you press 2, wait for the lone and record your itinerant schedule, When you are finished, press the pound sign (#), SubFinder will repeat your schedule.
If Correct	Press I
If Incorrect	Press 2
6. TO CANCEL AN ABSENCE
From the Main Menu	Press 3
Enter the job # followed by the pound sign (#).
SubFinder will play the absence, To Cancel the Absence	Press	1
To Return to the Main Menu	Press	9
If you press 1, SubFinder will ask for confirmation.
To Confirm Cancellation	Press	1
Otherwise	Press	2
4
In no case should an absence be reported to the SubFinder System after your scheduled start time. If so, you must call the Principal's Secretary.

You can call SubFinder m record, review, or camel absences, and to review and change your personal information.
Remember that SubFinder only works horn toudi lone telephones
When reporting an absence, always nail for the Job Number before disconnecting or your absence may not be recorded.
STlCERT.lXXT)

TO REGISTER WITH SUBFINDER
Dial the system: 602-271-3501
Enter your PIN (S.S.#):_______________________
Record your name when instructed. When you are Finished, press the pound sign (#).
SubFinder will play the Main Menu. Press 4 to review your personal information. If any of the information is incorrect, contact your supervisor.
MAIN MENU		
To Report an Absence	Press	1
To Review an Absence	Press	2
To Cancel an Absence	Press	3
To Review Personal Information	Press	4
To Leave the SubFinder System	Press	9
1. TO REPORT AN ABSENCE		
When reporting an absence, SubFinder will require the following information:
1	- Date and time of the absence (from date/to date)
2	• Reason for the absence
3	* Is a substitute required for the absence
4	- Date and time the substitute is required
5	• Any special instructions for the substitute
From the Main Menu	Press 1
SubFinder will play the ABSENCE MENU:
For All Day Today	Press 1
For All Day the Next Work Day	Press 2
To Enter Specific Dates and Times Press 3
To Return to the Main Menu	Press 9
2.	FOR ALL DAY TODAY or FOR ALL DAY THE NEXT WORK DAY
From the Absence Menu
For All Day Today	Press 1
For All Day the Next Work Day	Press 2
SubFinder will play the absence date and times.
If Correct	Press	1
If Incorrect	Press	2
TO ENTER SPECIFIC DATES AND TIMES
From the Absence Menu	Press	3
Enter the first date of the absence (MMDD) followed by the pound sign (#). To begin the absence today, press star (*).
Enter the time the absence begins (HHMM) followed by the pound sign (#).
For AM	Press 1
For PM	Press 2
If the absence begins at the start of the work day, press star (*).
Enter the last date of the absence (MMDD) followed by the pound sign (#). For a single day absence, press star (*).
Enter the time the absence ends (HHMM) followed by the pound sign (#)
For AM	Press 1
For PM	Press 2
If the absence ends at the end of the work day, press star (*)•
SubFinder will repeat the date(s) and times of the absence.
If Correct	Press 1
If Incorrect	Press 2
3.	ENTER THE ABSENCE REASON
SubFinder will play a list of absence reasons I’icss the number of the appropriate reason followed by the pound sign (#). SubFinder will repeal the reason.
If Correct	Press I
If Incorrect	Press 2
Absence Reaon
Personal/! .cave
* All other absences are called in by the Principal’s Secretary.
Leave day includes: Personal illness Family Illness Personal Business
4.	GET THE JOB NUMBER
Always Wait for the JOB NUMBER before disconnecting or the absence may not be recorded.
From this point forward SubFinder will follow the same procedures used when reporting an absence for All Day Today or All Day the Next Work Day.
Phoenix Union High School District No. 210
4502 N. Central Avenue
Phoenix, AZ 85012
Equal Opportunity Employer
Position Title:	President
Classified Employees
GENERAL STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES:
The President of the Glassified Employees Association is responsible for representing the classified employees in a positive manner with the Phoenix Union High School District. To promote positive relationships between the Governing Board, Superintendent, Leadership Team, Administrators, Teachers, and Support Staff. Work collaboratively toward the district goals: student achievement and effective use of fiscal and human resources.
Major Duties:
1.	Advocate and administer the implementation of the Constitution/Byfaws of the Phoenix Union High School Classified Employees Association.
2.	Uphold the integrity of the classified employees handbook, being sure the interpretation is the same for all support personnel.
3.	Oversee implementation and suggest revisions to the Director of Employee Relations for the Classified Employees Handbook and the Employee Conduct / Discipline Handbook.
4.	Assist, counsel and represent the CEA members in matters pertaining to employee rights, due process and responsibilities by providing guidance and assist in the interpretation of Classified Employees Handbook Language and the Employee Conduct / Discipline Handbook maintaining accountability at all times.
5.	Preside over Executive Board and Council of Representatives meetings, initiate and participate in governance decision making, holding said meetings a minimum of one per month.
6.	Meet with the CEA Officers to discuss matters dealing with classified employees issues and concerns.
7.	Participate in the meet and confer process for the Classified Employees Association.
8.	Recruit and appoint classified members for district association committees, delegate duties and serve as liaison to committees as necessary, submit list to offices for input to maintain diversity.
9.	Provide assistance for the classified when using the appeal or grievance process and represent the employee as needed at hearings.
10.	Serve on district level committees, e.g. Presidents* Council, Cesar Chavez Council, Site Based Shared Decision Making Committee. Budget Committee. IBN Process Team, and any other committee which the association presidents are requested to serve.
11.	Meet monthly with the superintendent to update him/her on issues pertinent to the classified employees. Work collaboratively to resolve issues and concerns of the classified employee.
12.	Meet as needed with the Director of Employee Relations for Classified Employees to resolve issues and concerns of the classified employees using a problem solving method or collaboratively depending on the issue.
13	Act as an ad hoc member of all committees for which the classified employees participate.
14.	Attend leadership training as provided by the National Education Association, Arizona Education Association and other recognized organizations.
Appendix A-1
15.	Maintain confidentiality at all time pertaining to personal matters regarding all staff of the Phoenix Union High School District.
16.	Annually plan the local association's objectives, programs and meetings in cooperation with the officers, executh board, council of representatives and committee chairs and revise as necessary.
17.	Serve as chief spokesperson for the local association to the public and the press, assisted by the communications/public relations department as needed.
18.	Attend district Board Meetings regularly.
OUMJEICAI1QN&
1.	Currently employed by the Phoenix Union High School District as a classified employee.
2.	Minimum of 2 years on the Executive Board or as an officer of the Classified Employees Association.
3.	Knowledgeable of the Classified Employees Handbook Language, Board Policies, Discipline Handbook, Arizona school laws and Federal rules, regulations, and statutes pertaining to equal employment opportunities for all classified employees.
4.	Ability to work collaboratively with other employee Associations in the Phoenix Union High School District.
.	5. Experience and / or training in problem solving techniques, leadership skiUs, mediation. Interest Based Negotiations and organizational stalls.
6. Ability to demonstrate oral and written communications skills.
Appendix A-2
PHOENIX UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 210
IN-CITY
TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENTS GUIDELINES
Who: Phoenix Union High School District employee authorized to travel within the city (Phoenix) up to 35 miles from his/her designated duty post (school). (For travel guidelines beyond 35 miles, refer to the IN STATE TRAVEL GUIDELINES.)
What Can I Be Reimbursed For?	.
1.	Registration Fees: Reimbursable with an original receipt from the conference, seminar, etc.
2.	Transportation based on actual mileage from the traveler’s residence or designated duty post (school) which ever is the
shorter distance. Reimbursement for travel in a privately-owned vehicle is currently .345 cents per mile based on actual odometer readings. Travel from school to school will be based on the District Mileage Chart regardless of odometer readings. Mileage Charts are available from the Controller’s Office — CES 4th Floor.
Mileage claims for use of privately owned vehicles shall specify exact street address & city in the “Departed From” and “Arrived At” Columns on the claim form (unless using District Mileage Chart).	*
A traveler driving a privately-owned motor vehicle must have current vehicle insurance and a valid Arizona Driver’s License both to be verified by the Administrator prior to travel.
3.	Lodging and Meals are not allowed for in-city travel (within 35 miles of the traveler’s designated duty post) except for club sponsors. Club sponsors should follow the IN STATE TRAVEL guidelines in requesting reimbursement for travel expenses associated with chaperoning students.
How Do I File A Claim For Reimbursement?
Before You Travel:
1.	Be sure you have your Administrator’s approval for mileage reimbursement.
2.	Be sure your Administrator has proof of your valid Arizona Driver’s License and current vehicle insurance.
I.	Keep accurate odometer readings and addresses of destinations.
2.	Fill out mileage claim form following instructions. Check your math. Forms will be returned to you if odometer readings do not add up. This will delay your payment.
3.	Submit ORIGINAL claim form once a month to: Controller’s Office - CES 4th Floor. Sign it and have your Administrator sign it. (District office staff must have forms signed by their Supervisor. Principals must have forms signed by the Assistant Superintendent for Instruction.)
4.	Keep a copy for your records.
DO NOT SEND XEROXED COPIES
All Reimbursements shall be made in accordance with Board Policy and State of Arizona Guidelines. A complete copy of these guidelines are available in your Principal’s Office.
July 2002
Appendix DI
PHOENIX UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 210 IN-STATE OUT OF TOWN TRAVEL GUIDELINES
Who: Phoenix Union High School District employees authorized to travel more than 35 miles from their designated duty post (school).
What reimbursements am I eligible to claim?
1	- Lodging: in a commercial establishment, not someone’s residence. The amount reimbursed will be determined by using the Reimbursement Rate Index. This information is available in the Principal’s Office or with your Floor Manager. If the traveler stays at a designated conference hotel whose rates exceed the maximum allowed, the actual cost of the room can be claimed if a conference brochure showing the hotel name and the least expensive single-room rate is submitted with the travel claim form. Reimbursement for lodging may not exceed the least expensive single-room rate plus tax published in the conference brochure. Without the brochure, the maximum rates on the state approved list will be paid.
ORIGINAL receipts from the commercial establishment are required for reimbursement. Credit card receipts will not be accepted. When a room is shared by two or more travelers each traveler must obtain a separate ORIGINAL lodging receipt for each traveler’s portion of the lodging cost. The total of the two (or more) lodging receipts cannot exceed the total lodging cost. Travelers should request separate receipts in advance, upon registration, from the lodging establishment.
2.	Transportation: Reimbursement is limited to expense of travel by the most direct and usually traveled route; by the most economical means of transport. The current reimbursement rate for privately-owned vehicles is .345 cents per mile.
When travel begins or ends at the individual’s residence, mileage shall be completed from the residence or designated duty post, whichever is the shortest distance. The traveler must have current vehicle insurance and a valid Arizona Driver’s License, both verified by the Administrator.
3.	Registration: Reimbursable with an original receipt from the conference, etc. Canceled checks/credit card receipts will not be accepted.
4.	Meals:Receipts For Meals Are Not Required. Reimbursement will be paid according to the Reimbursement Rate Index, on file in the Principal’s Office or with your Floor Manager.
Maximum Daily Rate Allowed: $29.50
Breakfast - Only when travel starts on or before 6:00 A.M. and the traveler’s normal workday is extended by 2 hours. Maximum allowed: $ 7 Lunch - only when traveler is in travel status for 6 hours or more and travel starts on or before 11 A.M. and ends at or after 2:00 P.M. Maximum allowed: $ 7.SO
Dinner - Only when travel extends to 8:00 P.M. or beyond and the traveler extends his normal workday by more than 3 hours. Maximum allowed: S 15.00
The traveler is not entitled to meal reimbursement when meals are provided free or for meals on an airplane or if included in registration fees.
NOTE: When an employee is entitled to reimbursement for three consecutive meals and is in overnight travel status for 24 consecutive hours, the amount expended for any particular meal is left to his /her discretion. The total for all meals and incidentals claimed may be shown as a lump sum per day. Refer to the copy of the Reimbursement Rate Index in the Principal’s Office or with your Floor Manager.
How Do I file a Claim?
Before the Trip:
1.	Fill out a Travel Request Form and have it signed by your Administrator, forward your travel request form to the CES Travel — 3rd Floor who will obtain the signature of the Assistant Superintendent for Instruction or his/her designee. Be sure all budget codes are accurate. If you have been approved for funds from your employee association (CTA, ADA, CEA) be sure the amount and budget code are listed. Please review additional instructions on the Travel Request Form. The total cost of the trip noted on your travel request form is the maximum you may claim, regardless of actual expenses you incur. Make sure it is estimated appropriately.
2.	If registration is to be paid totally by the District through a purchase order, please attach original requisition to your original travel
request form and send to CES Travel — 3rd Floor. Purchase orders will not be issued without the approved travel request form. Please allow at least 3 weeks for purchase order to be processed.
After the trip:
1.	Fill out a Travel Claim Form listing each day separately with expenses listed by day. Follow Travel Claim Form Instructions for completing the form. It will be returned to you if not filled out correctly, which will delay payment. Sign it and have your Administrator sign it. Principal’s must have their claim signed by the Assistant Superintendent for Instruction. Attach all original receipts.
2.	Send to: Controller’s Office, CES 4th Floor. Keep a copy for your records.
3.	If your actual expenses claimed exceeds the amount on your approved Travel Request Form, you may file an Amended Travel Request Form and send it to the CES Travel Office - Sth Floor. Note on your travel claim form that you have filed an amended request. Your claim will be held in the Controller’s Office - CES until your Amended Travel Request Form has been approved. This will significantly delay your reimbursement.
All Reimbursements shall be made in accordance with Board Policy and State of Arizona guidelines. A complete copy of these Guidelines are available in your Principal’s Office.
July 2002
Appendix D2
PHOENIX UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 210 OUT-OF-STATE TRAVEL GUIDELINES
Who: Phoenix Union High School District employees authorized to travel out-of-state for business purposes.
What Reimbursements Am I Eligible to Claim?
1	• Lodging: in a commercial establishment, not someone’s residence. The amount reimbursed will be determined by using the Reimbursement Rate Index. This information is available in the Principal’s Office or with your Floor Manager. If the traveler stays at a designated conference hotel whose rates exceed the maximum allowed, the actual cost of the room can be claimed if a conference brochure showing the hotel name and the least expensive single-room rate is submitted with the travel claim form. Reimbursement for lodging may not exceed the least expensive single-room rate plus tax published in the conference brochure. Without the brochure, the maximum rates on the state approved list will be paid.	’	'
ORIGINAL receipts from the commercial establishment are required for reimbursement. Credit card receipts will not be accepted. When a room is shared by two or more travelers each traveler must obtain a separate ORIGINAL lodging receipt for each traveler’s portion of the lodging cost. The total of the two (or more) lodging receipts cannot exceed the total lodging cost. Travelers should request separate receipts in advance, upon registration, from the lodging establishment.
2.	Transportation: Reimbursement is limited to expense of travel by the most direct and usually traveled route; by the most economical means of transport. Airfare will be reimbursed upon submission of the duplicate ticket (traveler’s copy) with the travel claim form. If you do not keep this copy, you must obtain written verification from the airline. Private Vehicles may be driven out-of-state within a 100 - mile radius from the state border. Reimbursement will be paid at the approved mileage rate, currently .345 cents per mile, based on accurate odometer readings UNLESS airfare is less expensive. In that case, the lowest airfare amount will be paid not the mileage. NOTE: Mexican Insurance cannot be reimbursed. Car Rental may be approved upon submission of a letter justifying why it would be to the District’s advantage to rent a vehicle signed by the person requesting the rental and by his/her Administrator. This letter must be submitted with the Travel Request Form or car rental request will be automatically denied. ORIGINAL car rental receipt must be submitted. Credit card receipts will not be accepted. Taxis, shuttles, buses are reimbursable - receipts are not required.
3.	Registration: Reimbursable with an Original receipt from the conference, seminar, etc. Canceled checks/credit card receipts will not be accepted.
4.	Meals:Receipts For Meals Are Not Required.
Reimbursement will be paid according to the Reimbursement Rate Index, on file in the Principal’s Office or with your Floor Manager.
Rates range from $ 29.50 - $ 40 per day based on location of travel.
Breakfast - Only when travel starts on or before 6:00 A.M. and the traveler’s normal workday is extended by 2 hours. Range: $7 - $9.50 Lunch - Only when traveler is in travel status for 6 hours or more and travel starts on or before 11 A.M. and ends at or after 2:00 P.M. Range: $ 7.50 - $ 10
Dinner - Only when travel extends to 8:00 P.M. or beyond and die traveler extends his normal workday by more than 3 hours. Range: $ 15.00 - $20.50 The traveler is not entitled to meal reimbursement when meals are provided free or for meals on an airplane or if included in registration fees.
NOTE: When an employee is entitled to reimbursement for three consecutive meals and is in overnight travel status for 24 consecutive hours, the amount expended for any particular meal is left to his /her discretion. The total for all meals and incidentals claimed may be shown as a lump sum per day
How do I File a Claim?
Before the Trip:
I.	Fill out a Travel Request Form and have it signed by your Administrator, forward your travel request form to the CES Travel — 3rd Floor who will obtain the rignature of the Assistant Superintendent for Instruction or his/her designee. Be sure all budget codes are accurate. If you have been approved for funds from your employee association (CTA, ADA, CEA) be sure the amount and budget code are listed. Please review additional instructions on the Travel Request Form. The total cost of the trip noted on your travel request form is the maximum you may claim, regardless of actual expenses you incur. Make sure it is estimated appropriately.
2.	The Travel Request Form will be sent to the Phoenix Union High School District Governing Board for approval. Once approval by the Board has been granted, you will be sent a copy of your approved travel request form.
3.	If registration is to be paid totally by the District through a purchase order, please attach original requisition to your original travel request form and send to CES Travel Office - Sth Floor. Purchase orders will not be issued without the approved travel request form. Please allow at least 3 weeks for purchase order to be processed.
After the trip:
1.	Fill out a Travel Claim Form listing each day separately with expenses listed by day. Follow Travel Claim Form Instructions for completing the form. It will be returned to you if not filled out correctly which will delay payment. Sign it and have your Administrator sign it. Principal’s must have their claim signed by the Assistant Superintendent for Instruction. Attach all original receipts.
2.	Send to: Controller’s Office, CES 4th Floor. Keep a copy for your records.
3.	If your actual expenses claimed exceeds the amount that was approved by the Board, you may file an Amended Travel Request Form and send it to the CES Travel — 3rd Floor. Note on your travel claim form that you have filed an amended request to the Governing Board. Your claim will be held in the Controller’s Office - CES until the Board approves your amendment. This will significantly delay your reimbursement.
July 2002
Appendix D3
TRAVEL CLAIM FORM INSTRUCTIONS
COMPLETE IN INK OR TYPE - SIGN AND DATE YOUR FORM SECTION I
DAY 1 - fill in date, time, place of Departure (normally Phoenix, AZ) and date, time, place of Arrival.
Day 2,3 etc.- If this is not the Departure day for your return to Phoenix, list the date, city and state you stayed in and fill in Sections 2-5 of the claim, itemizing expenses for that day. If this is the day of your Departure, list the date, time, place of Departure and date, time, place of Arrival (normally, Phoenix, AZ.). BE SURE TO SPECIFY A.M. OR P.M. ON TRAVEL TIMES.
DATES MUST MATCH THOSE APPROVED BY THE GOVERNING BOARD ON YOUR TRAVEL REQUEST FORM.
SECTION 2	- PRIVATE VEHICLE USE
If a privately-owned vehicle was used, write your Auto License Number in the appropriate space at the upper right-hand corner of the claim form. Fill in actual odometer readings and total mileage for each day claimed. List each day separately. You cannot claim gasoline and mileage. Mileage covers both gasoline and the use of the car.
SECTION 3	- MEALS AND LODGING
Meals may be claimed as a lump sum per day but must be listed by day.
Rates range from $29.50 - $40 per day based on location of travel - Travel Guidelines and Meals/Lodging Index*.
Receipts are not required for meals.
ORIGINAL HOTEL RECEIPTS REQUIRED - CREDIT CARD RECEIPTS ARE NOT ACCEPTABLE. Lodging amounts only including tax must be listed for each day. Lodging amounts will be reimbursed based on State approved guidelines. Attach ORIGINAL receipts. If traveler stays at a conference hotel, attach a copy of the conference brochure showing the hotel name and rate.
Lodging and meals are not allowed for in-city travel.
SECTION4 -	TRANSPORTATION - ORIGINAL PASSENGER COPY OF AIRLINE TICKET REQUIRED. CREDIT CARD RECEIPTS ARE NOT ACCEPTABLE.
Airline ticket amount should be listed in the Transportation Column under DAY 1. Other allowable transportation: Taxis, buses, limos must be identified and itemized by day. Receipts are not required. Car Rental, if necessary, will be reimbursed upon submission of the ORIGINAL receipt. Car Rental may be approved upon submission of a letter justifying why it would be to the District’s advantage to rent a vehicle signed by the person requesting the rental and by his/her Administrator. This letter must be submitted with the Travel Request Form or car rental request will be automatically denied. ORIGINAL car rental receipt must be submitted. CANCELED CHECKS AND CREDIT CARD RECEIPTS ARE NOT ACCEPTABLE.
SECTION S - OTHER ALLOWABLE EXPENSES
Itemize other expenses by day and identify each one with a footnote explaining what it was for. Examples include: business phone calls, parking, registration fees. ORIGINAL RECEIPTS ARE REQUIRED.
TOTAL ALL DAYS EXPENSES AT THE BOTTOM OF THE FORM FOR A GRAND TOTAL TO BE CLAIMED.
Purpose of Travel: Fill in the conference, seminar, meeting, etc. attended.
SIGN AND DATE YOUR CLAIM AND HAVE YOUR PRINCIPAL SIGN ON THE APPROVAL LINE. PRINCIPALS MUST HAVE THE ASSISTANT SUPERINTENDENT FOR INSTRUCTION SIGN THEIR CLAIMS.
end original claim form, original receipts and a copy of your travel request form to CES - #4, Controller’s Office. Keep a copy for your records.
*A complete copy of all Guidelines are available in the Principal’s Office or with your Floor Manager.
July 2002
Appendix D4

Phoenix Union High School District No. 210
Travel Expense Claim
Traveler’s Name
Address
School/Unit
Traveled By Q Common Carrier Transportation □ Other
Telephone No.	Today’s Date
__________________WK Accounting Code (s)
__________________
□	Personal Car: License No.	.
□	School District Vehicle: Vehicle No.
		SECTION 1				SECTION 2			SECTION 3		SECTION 4	SECTION S
		Departed From		Arrived At		Private Vehicle Mileage Odometer Reading			Attach ORIGINAL Lodging Receipts		Airfare, Taxi, Bus, Shuttle	Itemized Other Allowable
	Date	Place	Time	Place	Time	Start	End	Mileage	Meals	Lodging	Transportation	Expenses
Day 1												
												
												
Day 2												
												
												
Day 3												
												
												
Day 4												
												
												
DayS												
												
												
Day 6												
												
												
Day 7												
												
												
Total Miles	 x Mileage Rate 	i Subtotals								$	$	$	$	$
Purpose of Travel										GRAND TOTAL		$
I hereby certify that the travel and/or per diem recorded herein was accomplished in the performance of official duties; that the information given is true in all respects and that no claim against the District has before been made for any part thereof, or paid from any source funding.
Signature of Traveler
Date
Approval of Authorized Official
Date
Appendix D5
Direct Deposit
FOR INFORMATION ONLY
PLEASE SEE THE PAYROLL DEPARMENT FOR INFORMATION ABOUT DIRECT DEPOSIT.
Establishing a Change of Name
FOR INFORMATION ONLY
Changing one’s name affects the employee’s payroll file, certification record (if certification is required), and social security earnings.
Before a name change is submitted to the District, the steps listed below must be followed:
1.	Contact the nearest social security office for a name change application. (Form SS-S). See Exhibit A.
a.	The social security law requires original or certified documents be furnished showing both old and new names. In some cases, evidence of age and U. S. citizenship are required. Uncertified or notarized photocopies cannot be accepted.
b.	In approximately 4-6 weeks the new social security card should be received.
2.	Those employees whose contracts require certification should, in the meantime, contact the State Department of Education for a name change to their certification. Register the name change with the Maricopa County School Office, 111 South 3rd Avenue, Certification Department (4th floor).
3.	Only upon completion of the above and receipt of the new social security card (or an appropriate authorization from the social security office) should the name change be submitted to the School Districts Employee Relations Office or appropriate Unit secretary.
a.	Complete a Personnel Information Change form.
b.	Complete a new W-4 Federal Withholding Certificate.
1)	It is important the printed name, signature, and social security number read exactly as shown on the-new social security card. This information should be verified by the authorized personnel receiving the name change upon presentation of the card.
2)	A Xerox copy of the social security card will then be made by the recipient of the name change—not required but highly recommended.
c.	Finally, the certified employee should be willing to sign with the District an affirmation stating his/her responsibility has been met by completing an Affirmation of Name Change to Certification Records as attached:
Appendix G-1
7/00
AFFIRMATION OF NAME CHANGE TO CERTIFICATION RECORDS
I have established a change of name with the State Department of Education, and have registered the name change with Maricopa County School Offices' Certification Department. I understand failure to do so could mean Payroll's inability to process a payroll warrant for the applicable payday; subsequently delaying the issuance of my paycheck until as late as the following payday.
Employee's Signature
Title
Date
Witnessed
Distribution:
Title
Personnel (with W-4 form, copy of social security showing new name, name change authorization form attached)
Appendix G-2
7/00
Mi
■
■
HI11 *<— t 1 yi?£'w. _ ....;.s^^
■


■■■■■■I
illlllllll
■■■
«&w»®

BMSMBii
liliil

liliil
SSi


w^wpw^
llj^
■|^B|h^B^9HB
M^tSlSfilBiBB


ft®

^^^■BBBllMiisiWiiW

iSi®
wtjgg^s
■HH
■
B fe




■X'S^

J^EH
IO

■M^H
gH®|
1BHH
Ea!>

MMMI


....,_,„..... _
S®SBtS8®liBOilM8!^®SSj fiSftRj^^S^SBSalfii^^^^M ItBiOiMlS^^ ii««i#®gf^^
S^^?@^S^’^«»?^«gW8®5t^KOS^St»saK
Ml
Mi
BH

«I^B1
v^g&
Ki
iWWSWfSj
■■I
MMHHMMh
■■wawsw^sswg
£^t-4&.?V£x^
iHllii Miisi
III
H
IMHH
IStSSSlRlwSJ
ws
w
Wit®
wsws
8WWS-
■■
^■■R^KSiOBwSO^W
■■Kws^WW^te^WwfeW
«BiSiiiBa^^
»fcs«S^WBWBHa
a^^siKsss^^
wi^asaai^Kisi^SMis
■OH
Mi
81
S»8SW8BB8W«»sia
MMH
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■I
9®(Oi#eS#W88sW#s
llilliiMlwii
I^^Ss


SSI

HMMNMMK
sill
Mi

GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Term Accepts changes	Definitions The employee is adaptable and makes the changes necessary to perform the work more efficiently.
Accepts direction	The employee willingly accepts directions and takes orders from his/her immediate supervisor and/or administrator.
Accepts responsibility	The employee initiates tasks and takes responsibility of the outcome.
Attendance	Consistent attendance with adherence to punctuality.
Classified Assistance Team	CEA President and/or his/her designee; one peer that has held the employee’s position at one time during employment with the District and who is no on a remediation plan, (optional by employee choice)
Compliance with rules Effectiveness under stress	See Handbook The employee acts appropriately when under stress resulting from pressure or changes in situations.
Job skill level	The employee’s skills meet, and have kept pace with the requirements of the job.
Knowledge of work	The employee possesses knowledge of the work to be performed.
Leave Time	Refers to all of employee’s available leave days, personal business, vacation time, and compensation time.
Meeting deadlines	The employee completes work assignments in a timely manner, and meets deadlines/schedules.
Observance of work hours	The employee consistently arrives at appropriate job site and leaves at the designated time.
Operation and care of equipment	The employee possesses the knowledge to operate the equipment properly. The employee makes every effort to keep the equipment in good working order and repair using appropriate procedures.
Optional Improvement Plan	A optional program to help an employee who needs improvement in certain identified indicators of his/her job performance.
Planning and organization Professional Development Plan	The employee schedules his/her time effectively. An Optional Improvement plan for employees who are rated “Meets Standards” or higher.
Public contacts	The employee acts as a representative of the district and is respectful of all persons.
Pupil contacts	The employee treats all students with respect and acceptance.
Quality of work	The employees quality of work meets and is performed at an acceptable level that is required for the job.
Quasi Supervisor	Persons assigned to positions that have supervision responsibilities on the employee job description. (e.g. Bookstore Manager. Cafeteria Manager. Craft Chiefs. Lead Custodian. Registrar. Lead Security'. Etc)
i
GLOSSARY OF TERMS (CONTINUED)
Remediation Plan
Safety practices
Volume of work Work coordination
Workday
Work judgments
A mandatory program that will help an employee improve in identified unsatisfactory indicators of the job performance. Failure to complete this program may result in termination.
The employee observes all safety rules and requirements of the job or work place.
The employee maintains an acceptable rate of productivity.
The employee plans, organizes and coordinates activities acceptable to the job requirements.
Any workday, exclusive of legal holidays and board declared recess days as identified by the official school calendar.
The employee makes responsible decisions based on job requirements and demands.
ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section	Pane
L	Introduction........................................................................ 1
H.	Philosophy and Beliefs............................................................   1
HL	Objectives ......................................................................... 1
IV.	Designation of Qualified Evaluators................................................. 2
V.	Training Program and Procedures..................................................... 2
VI.	Evaluation Safeguards.............................................................   3
VII.	Confidentiality....................................................................  3
Vin.	Revision ........................................................................... 3
IX.	Orientation of Staff................................................................ 3
iii
I.	Introduction
This system of assessment and evaluation of the performance of classified staff within the Phoenix Union High School District has been developed through joint efforts of classified/support staff and administrators. Successful implementation will depend upon each employee’s knowledge and understanding of the components of the process. These procedures are not static, but subject to change and improvement.
II.	Philosophy and Beliefs
Improvement and maintenance of the learning environment in the Phoenix Union High School District is a joint effort between classified employees, classroom teachers, administrators, parents and students. Professional development of the classified employee is enhanced by an effective evaluation system.
This system was developed on the beliefs that:
Classified evaluations, in order to be effective, should be based on job descriptions and administered consistently.
Classified employees are willing to enhance their performance if given the opportunity to help determine the direction, course of action, and the goals for self improvement.
Classified evaluations should meet individual and organizational needs for continuous improvement and accountability.
Classified employees can improve their understanding of their jobs and should be encouraged to develop better job performance through the utilization of a professional development plan.
Classified employees must be evaluated a minimum of once a year and all evaluations must be completed by May 1.
Ill	Objectives
The objectives of the assessment and evaluation system are as follows:
1.	To identify standards and Indicators where strengths are observed and to encourage continued use of related behaviors.
2.	To4dentify standards, indicators and, if necessary, prescribe changes which would enhance performance.
3.	To identify available resources and provide assistance for improvement.
4.	To provide classified staff who are new to the profession and/or district an orientation and a supportive working environment.
1
IV;
Designation of Qualified Evaluators
The District shall provide training for all staff who evaluate classified employees according to the outcomes and procedures specified in the Procedure Manual/Classified Staff Evaluation.
Qualifications for the evaluators are as follows:
1.	Completion of an initial district training session on the classified employee evaluation process. Attend an annual evaluation refresher course as determined by Employee Relations Office on an as needed basis.
2.	Knowledge of the policies, laws, procedures, and regulations related to the evaluation process.
3.	Knowledge of the evaluation process, evaluation system and its criteria.
4.	Communication, planning, and implementation skills directly related to the evaluation system.
5.	Ability to gather and record data, to analyze standards/indicators, identify work performance strengths, areas of improvement, and areas of deficiency.
6.	Conferencing skills that allow classified staff the ability to communicate areas of strength and deficiencies.
7.	Assist in designing a plan which includes monitoring the employee in Remediation.
8.	Completion of training and demonstration of competency in the evaluation process.
V.	Training Program and Procedures for Evaluators
The following training program and procedures are derived from a compilation of suggested activities, and are considered to be the minimum acceptable training to be an effective evaluator.
Administrator, Supervisors and Quasi Supervisors
A mandatory district training, as described below, for all staff who participate in evaluating classified employees given by the designated CEA members and the Employee Relations Office.
Objective: Proper use of the instrument per current policies, regulations, evaluation procedures and applicable sections of the CEA Handbook.
Review of the manual
Timelines
Procedure Discussion
Forms (evaluation, optional improvement, remediation, professional development)
Simulation
Evaluation Conference
Forms (evaluation, optional improvement, remediation, professional development)
Conference
Remediation
When:	Annually, to be scheduled by the district.

VI.	Evaluation Safeguards
Evaluation content is not grievable, but the employee being evaluated may claim personal bias or conflict of interest once per year before the informal and/or formal evaluation is scheduled. However, the evaluation process including timelines will be continued. S/he may appeal first to the Principal/Unit Administrator if the claim is against their Assistant Principal/Immediate Supervisor, or Employee Relations if against the Principal/Unit Administrator. The second and final appeal is to the Superintendent or Designee.
If procedures are violated, then s/he may file a grievance and follow grievance procedures as outlined in the Classified Employees Handbook.
An employee cannot be down graded for using approved compensation time, vacation days, personal business, or leave days as defined in the classified employees handbook, or for being involved in district recognized and approved committees or employee association activities.
VII.	Confidentiality
Copies of assessment and evaluation reports including remediation plans of classified employees, are confidential, and shall not be released or shown to unauthorized persons, in either draft or completed form. Violations of this section shall be subject to disciplinary action.
VIII.	Revision
This evaluation system will be reviewed by a joint committee composed of both classified staff and administrators and revised annually, where necessary, beginning with the 1998-99 school year.
IX.	Orientation of Staff
Classified Staff Evaluation Component:
All classified staff initially will participate in a mandatory orientation session on the evaluation process presented by the evaluation committee and/or the Employee Relations Office. Future orientation sessions will be given as needed. As needed will be determined by the site administration and the Employee Relations Office.
Objective:	To inform how the evaluation instrument works
Review of Manual
Timelines
Discuss Procedure
Informal Evaluation
Formal Evaluation
Remediation Plan
Optional Improvement Plan
Optional Professional Development Plan
Forms (evaluation/optional improvement and remediation — Q&A)
When: As determined by the site administration and the Employee Relations Office with 2 orientation training’s per site/3 at some sites.
Classified Staff Orientation Component:
All classified staff, when they begin employment with the district, should have an orientation process that includes:
Review of the Classified Employees Handbook
Review of the Employee Conduct/Discipline Handbook
Review of the Employee Evaluation Process
3
Phoenix Union High School District
CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES OPTIONAL PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Classified employees in the Phoenix Union High School District are encouraged to implement a professional development plan. The plan would be designed to increase the skill or service levels of the classified employee. It is recommended that the employees plan have one to three development objectives per year. The plan could encompass one or multiple years depending on the objective and availability of the necessary material. Once entered into, a professional development plan should be reviewed and progress updated on an annual basis.
Suggested Activities could include:
University/College classes*
Professional Growth classes*
Conducting:*
In-service Activities
Training Sessions
Training Conferences
Participating in:
In-service Activities
Training Sessions
Training Conferences
Professional Conferences
Peer Monitoring
Serving on a Professional Development Team/Evaluation Team*
Leadership in School/District activities*
Membership/Leadership in a professional organization*
(* Participation in these activities outside of the normal work schedule may apply towards professional growth and movement on the pay scale.)
4
rnoenix union High School District
CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES OPTIONAL PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN SELF EVALUATION FORM
Using the Evaluation standards and indicator, indicate where you could use the most improvement.
Standard #1 Job Duties
Standard #2 Work Performance and Productivity (6 indicators)
‘Quality of Work
‘Volume of Acceptable Work
‘Knowledge of Work
‘Work Coordination and Organization
‘Flexibility/Accepts Direction
‘Work Judgments/lnitiative
(development activities for this section could include
........... — -	. .......... ............ . . . ______________)
Standard #3	Attendance
Standard #4	Interpersonal Relationships (4 Indicators)
‘Communicates skills with other staff, students and parents
‘Treatment of Students, Parents, and the Public equitably, fairly and respectfully
*Team Member Skills
‘Problem Solving Skills
(development activities for this section could include
-__________________________-... __________________•-...............
Standard #5 Safety (1 Indicator)
‘Job Safety
(development activities for this section could include
...........-................................__________________________)
Standard #6	Operation and Care of Equipment (1 indicator)
‘Operation and care of equipment (1 Indicator) (development activities for this section could include
' ' ■ . ............................. _____________)
Standard #7	Compliance with Rules and Procedures
‘Compliance with Rules and Procedures (1 Indicator) (development activities for this section could include
~	~~Z________________________T
Supervisors ONLY (Optional Factors) (3 Indicators)
'Scheduling/Coordinating
'Development and Evaluations of Subordinates
'Work Environment and Equipment
(development activities for this section could include
5
Phoenix Union High School
OPTIONAL PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN (separate page for each indicator)
Employee Date
School; Job Title
Projected Time Line for Completion____________________________________
Using the Evaluation standards and indicators, indicate where you choose to develop a Professional Development Plan.
Standard/lndicator:___________________________________________________
Specific objectives related to the above standard/indicator:
Activities: ___________________________________________________________________________________
Evidence of Accomplishment:_______________________________________________
Employee’s Signature
Administrator s Signature (Optional)
Date
Date
6
Classified Formal Evaluation Flow Chart
Complete no later/ than May 1 j
^Meets
7
CLASSIFIED INFORMAL PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
Name Date ocation  Job Title ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1	= 2	= 3	= 4	= 5	=	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan) Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan) Meets Standards (Basic) Exceeds Standards (Proficient) Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)	(Circle levels of performance that applies) Levels of Performance				
1.	Major Job Duty #1	1	2	3	4	5
2.	Major Job Duty #2	1	2	3	4	5
3.	Major Job Duty #3	1	2	3	4	5
4.	Major Job Duty #4	1	2	3	4	5
5.	Major Job Duty #5	1	2	3	4	5
6.	Major Job Duty #6	1	2	3	4	5
7.	Major Job Duty #7	1	2	3	4	5
8.	Major Job Duty #8	1	2	3	4	5
9.	Major Job Duty #9	1	2	3	4	5
10.	Major Job Duty #10	1	2	3	4	5
11.	Major Job Duty #11	1	2	3	4	5
12	Major Job Duty #12	1	2	3	4	5
13.	Major Job Duty #13	1	2	3	4	5
14.	Major Job Duty #14	1	2	3	4	5
15.	Major Job Duty #15	1	2	3	4	5
16.	Major Job Duty #16	1	2	3	4	5
17.	Major Job Duty #17	1	2	3	4	5
18.	Major Job Duty #18	1	2	3	4	5
9.	Quality of Work	1	2	3	4	5
20.	Volume of Acceptable Work	1	2	3	4	5
21.	Knowledge of Work	1	2	3	4	5
22. ..	Work Coordination and Organization	1	2	3	4	5
23.	Flexibility/Accepts Direction	1	2	3	4	5
24.	Work Judgments/lnitiative	1	2	3	4	5
25.	Optional Factors - Supervisors ONLY:					
	a. Scheduling/Coordinating	1	2	3	4	5
	b. Development & Evaluation of Subordinates	1	2	3	4	5
	c. Work Environment and Equipment	1	2	3	4	5
26.	Comments: (Attendance, Interpersonal Relationships, Job Safety, Operation			and Care	of Equipment,	
	Compliance w/Rules and Procedures)					
27. Recognition of Achievements:
Request Formal Evaluation:	Admin istrator/Supervisor		Yes		No	
(May be held no sooner than 10 work days)	Employee		Yes		No	
Attachments Made:	Administrator/Supervisor		Yes		No	
(Must be attached within 10 work days)	Employee		Yes		No	
Admimstrative/E valuator’s Signature	Employee’s Signature		Date	
c Employee/Locanon/Employee Relations
Signing this form verifies receipt of evaluation only
Phoenix Union High School District
CLASSIFIED FORMAL EVALUATION TABULATION INSTRUMENT
CONFIDENTIAL
Employee Name:_______________________________
Evaluator:
Status: Probationary  Full-time
Location:	_____________________
Location:	_____________________
_________ Part-time __________________
INSTRUCTIONS: The Evaluator will list the number of appropriate level of performance for each indicator of a standard. Comments for each standard are optional except when “Unsatisfactory” or “Needs Improvement” is checked.
1. Tabulate the number of each indicator.
a					Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan - Mandatory*)
b.			—	Needs Improvement (Improvement Plan - Optional)
c.						Meets Standards (Basic)
d.					Exceeds Standards (Proficient)
e.					Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
‘The Remediation Plan is required when the employee has 2 or more unsatisfactory ratings and will be developed by the employee, Administrator/Supervisor and the (optional) Classified Assistance I earn if requested by the employee.
See Section 19 - F.
Employee’s Signature
Date
Supervisor (if applicable)
Date
Administrator s Signature
Date
Phoenix Union High School District CLASSIFIED REMEDIATION PLAN FORM
Employee Name:■ Location:
ob Title:Date: 
Evaluator:C.A.T.* Requested yes no
Target Date for Completion: _________
Periodic Review Dates:_______________
(Please utilize a separate page for each Standard)
1.	Performance indicator on which the employee’s performance “unsatisfactory”:
2.	Specific behaviors in which the employee must demonstrate to be placed in “meets standards”:
3.	Interventions to bring about improvements in performance:
a.	Possible Resources
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
b.	Time lines/Dates of Observations/Reevaluation of Performance:
4.	Specific behavior(s) which will be observable upon completion of the Remediation Plan:
5.	Evaluation/Observation Date(s): _______________________ . _	_________________________________________
Conference Date(s):...................   —........................................................................
Remediation Successfully Completed:	Date------------------------ Yes ----------- No------------
Recommend the Employee be terminated:	Date ----------------------- Yes ----------- No -----------
Employee’s Signature___________________________________________________
Supervisor (if applicable) _______________ ____________________________
Administrator’s Signature_______________________________:--------------
Classified Assistance Team
Signing this form verified receipt of the evaluation but does not necessarily indicate agreement with the content. Employee may attach comments if desired.
Date ---------------------
Date ----------------------
Phoenix Union High School District
OPTIONAL CLASSIFIED IMPROVEMENT PLAN FORM
nployee Name:Location:^
Job Title:	•Date: 
Evaluator:_______________________________________________________
Target Date for Completion:___________________________________________________________
Periodic Review Dates: _______________________________________________________________
(Please utilize a separate page for each Standard)
1.	Performance indicator on which the employee’s performance “needs improvement”:
2.	Specific behaviors in which the employee must demonstrate to be placed in “meets standards”:
Interventions to bring about improvements in performance: a Possible Resources
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
b. Time lines/Dates of Observations/Reevaluation of Performance:
4.	Specific behavterfs) which will be observable upon completion of the Improvement Plan:
5.	Evaluation/Observation Date(s):______________________________________________________________________________
Conference Date(s):_______________________________________________________________________________________
Improvement Completed.	Date ---------------------- Yes ---------- No
Recommend the Employee be placed in Remediation:	Date  Yes  No 
Employee Signature ______________________________________________
pervisor (if applicable) ____________________________________
Administrator’s Signature________________________________________
Date _________________
Date _________________
Date __________________
CLASSIFIED FORMAL EVALUATION
Name	Date
Location Job Title	Evaluator
STANDARD 1: Major Job Duties
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
1. Performs major job duty #1 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified m p>b description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
2. Performs major job duty #2 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are com pleted.
					
3. Performs major job duty #3 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. )• Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee perforins job duty as identified in )<>b description •	Employee consistently sucks additional tasks when job duties die com pleted
STANE JD 1: Major Job Duties (cont.)
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
4. Performs major job duty #4 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee perforins job duty as identified m job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
					
5. Performs major job duty #5 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
6. Performs major job duty #6 as identified in the job , description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed
					
STANDARD 1: Major Job Duties (cont.)
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
7. Performs major job duty #7 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
					
8. Performs major job duty #8 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified tn job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
					
9. Performs major job duty #9 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs |ob duty as identified in job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
					
STAND JD 1: Major Job Duties (cont.)
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
10. Performs major job duty #10 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
					
11. Performs major job duty #11 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
					
12. Performs major job duty #12 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified m job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties arc completed.
					
STANDARD 1: Major Job Duties (cont.)
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
13. Performs mtyor job duty #13 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
					
14. Performs major job duty #14 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
					
15. Performs major job duty #15 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.
					
STAND D 1: Major Job Duties (cont.)
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
16. Performs major job duty #16 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties arc completed.
					
17. Performs major job duty #17 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee consistently seeks addittonal tasks when job duties are completed
					
18. Performs major job duty #18 as identified in the job description.	• Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description.	• Employee performs job duty as identified in job description.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in job description. •	Employee occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed.	•	Employee performs job duty as identified in j<»b description •	Employee consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties die completed
					
Comments:
STANDARD 2: Work Performance and Productivity
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
1. Quality of Work	•	Employee lacks thoroughness in work completed and work is inaccurate. •	Work flow is erratic.	•	Employee is inconsistent in the degree of thoroughness and accuracy in work completed. •	Little evidence of a smooth work flow.	•	Employee’s work is accurate. •	Work is completed on time. •	Employee is able to maintain a smooth work flow.	• Employee demonstrates a high level of competence, accuracy and thoroughness of work completed, resulting in quality work and improved work flow.	• Employee is always demonstrating a high level of competence, insures accuracy and thoroughness oi the work completed, resulting in high quality work, and a smooth, efficient work flow.
					
2. Volume of Acceptable Work	•	Employee fails to achieve an acceptable amount of work to meet the job requirements. •	Does not utilize time effectively, and does not complete projects in a timely manner.	• Employee is inconsistent in producing an acceptable amount of work to meet the job requirements. • Does not always utilize time effectively and is inconsistent in completing projects/assignments in a timely manner.	•	Employee produces an acceptable amount of work, in relation to the job requirements. •	Utilizes work time to complete projects/assignments in an acceptable manner.	•	Employee produces an acceptable amount of work and occasionally excels in production to meet deadlines. •	Employee utilizes time in an effective manner to complete projects/assignments in a timely manner.	•	Employee excels in producing superior work and in work production to meet deadlines •	Employee utilizes tune in a highly efficient manner to complete projects/assignments on time and accurately.
					
si Amu	<j z: worn verrormance ana jrroaucnvny (.co
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
3. Knowledge of Work	•	Employee does not have the knowledge, skills, or abilities to perform job duties satisfactorily. •	Does not seek to improve his/her knowledge, skills, or abilities.	•	Employee is inconsistent in the application of the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform job duties, •	Does not always welcome or take advantage of opportunities to increase them.	• Employee has the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform job duties. ♦ Welcomes opportunities to utilize them.	• Employee has the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform job duties. ♦ Occasionally demonstrates these skills and abilities by assisting other employees. • Strives to increase these skills and abilities.	•	Employee has a comprehensive knowledge of all the processes required to perform job duties •	Welcomes opportunities to improve them, is willing to help others, and is used as an information resource by co-workers. •	Actively seeks to increase this knowledge for a more efficient work environment
					-
STANDARD 2: Work Performance and Productivity (cont.)
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
4. Work Coordination and Organization	• Regularly fails to plan, organize, coordinate activities for work.	•	Employee is inconsistent in planning and organizing. •	Employee is inconsistent in coordinating activities at work.	.	• Plans, organizes and coordinates activities acceptable to the job requirements.	•	Plans, organizes and coordinates activities effectively. •	Occasionally prepares contingency plans. •	Follows through.	•	Plans, organizes and coordinates activities iii a superior manner. •	Prepares contingency plans. •	Follows through in a timely manner so that work always meets deadlines and timetables.
					—
5. Flexibility/ Accepts Direction	•	Fails to adapt to changes or accept new directives in the work place. •	Productivity/ relationships with other workers affected in a negative manner.	•	Employee is inconsistent in adapting to changes/directives in the work place. •	Productivity and relationship with other employees suffer to a limited degree.	•	Adapts to changes/directives in the work place. •	Productivity and relationships unaffected by change.	•	Adapts to changes/directives quickly, and attempts to help others to adapt to changes as necessary. •	Productivity and relationships unaffected by change.	•	Adapts quickly and accurately to changing directives and priorities. •	Works to assist others to adapt to the changes •	Serves as a resource person by co-workers to adapt to changes
					
STANE D 2: Work Performance and Productivity (co
		Level of Performance			
Indicator	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
6. Work Judgments/ Initiative	•	Fails to make sound work judgments. •	Fails to take the initiative to follow through on work assignments.	• Employee is inconsistent in making sound work judgments. • Inconsistent in taking the initiative to follow through on work assignments.	•	Makes sound work judgments •	Takes the initiative to follow through on work assignments.	•	Frequently makes appropriate work judgments. •	Takes the initiative to follow through on work assignments. •	Takes responsibility for decisions.	•	Consistently makes sound work judgments and takes the initiative to follow through on work assignments. •	Accepts responsibility for decisions. •	Takes the initiative to find new and better ways to perform the job, and expand his/her capability and skills.
					—
Comments:
,1
STANDARD 3: Attendance (reduced to four levels of performance)
Note: An employee can not be down graded for using APPROVED compensation time, vacation days, or leave days as defined in the Classified Employees Handbook, or for being involved in district recognized and approved committees or employee association activities.
Indicator	Level of Performance			
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
1. Adherence to assigned work schedule and regular attendance	•	Employee does not adhere to established work schedule (i.e., not at assigned work station/work area - start time, breaks, lunch, ending time). •	Employee abuses use of leave days (i.e. has exhausted all available leave time and is on no pay status).	•	Employee frequently does not adhere to established work schedule (i.e., not at assigned work station/work area - start time, breaks, lunch, ending time). •	Employee is inconsistent in being prompt, punctual and in attendance at required times.	♦ Employee demonstrates competence in being prompt, punctual and in attendance at required times. • Employee follows work schedule including breaks and lunches.	• Employee takes extra effort to have consistent attendance as a goal and therefore, may be eligible for additional leave days(s).
				
Comments:
STANDARD 4: Interpersonal Relationships
		Level of Performance			
Indicator	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
1. Communication skills with other staff, students and parents	• Employee does not communicate effectively, verbally and/or in writing. ♦ Employee's language and actions may be characterized, for example, by sarcasm, vulgarity, profanity and/or derogatory remarks and is generally unacceptable.	• Employee's communication skills, verbally and/or in writing, are limited and employee has problems communicating. • Employee occasionally lacks professionalism when communicating with others.	•	Employee communicates clearly, both verbally and/or in writing. •	Employee communicates in a professional manner.	•	Employee demonstrates verbal and written communication skills that are both clear and accurate. •	Employee clearly demonstrates professionalism when communicating with others.	•	Employee always communicates clearly , effectively and accurately, both verbally and in writing. •	Employee conducts sell in a professional manner at all turn's
					
2. Treatment of Students, Parents, and the Public Equitably, Fairly, and Respectfully	• Employee treats students, parents, staff and/or public discourteously, inequitably and/or disrespectfully.	• Employee shows students, parents, staff and/or public, courtesy, equity and/or respect on an inconsistent basis.	• Employee treats students, parents, staff and/or public with equity and respect.	•	Employee treats students, parents, staff and/or public courteously, equitably and/or respectfully on a consistent basis. •	On occasion, has made an effort to promote a positive attitude and behavior in the work place.	•	Employee always shows students, parents, stall and the public the utmost courtesy, equity and respect •	Employee makes a consistent effort to promote a positive attitude and behavior in the work plate
				•		
STAN1 ’D 4: Interpersonal Relationships (cont.)
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
3. Team Member Skills	• Employee's relationships with coworkers are negative or self-serving, discourages group team spirit and sabotages those that make an effort to work as a team.	• Employee maintains cordial relationships with a few co-workers; does not contribute positively in a team setting. • Employee usually demonstrates negative attitudes.	• Employee works and supports co-workers; contributes to the team process.	♦ Employee's relationships are characterized by cooperation and support. • Employee demonstrates a positive attitude towards the team process.	•	Employee's relationships are characterized by cooperation and support. •	Employee consistently demonstrates a positive image towards the team process. •	Employee is always willing to cooperate in achieving the desired goal.
					—
4. Problem Solving Skills	•	Employee is defensive about new approaches to solving problems; is unwilling to accept and act on feedback. •	Does not identify and interprete problems as they arise.	• Employee seldom accepts approaches to solving problems openly; reluctantly accepts and acts on feedback.	• Employee is open and approachable about problems; accepts and acts on feedback.	•	Employee is open and approachable about problems; accepts and acts on feedback. •	Employee has exhibited the ability of reaching conclusions ’ and making recommendations for solutions.	•	Employee is open and approachable about problems; accepts and acts on feedback •	Employee exhibits the ability of iden111 \ mg, analyzing, reaching conclusions, making recommendations and implementing snlutiuiK
					
Comments:
1.3
STANDARD 5: Safety (reduced to three levels of performance)
Note: Practices which assure safety of students, employees or the general public. These practices may reflect specific supervisory directives or simple forethought for potentially dangerous conditions and the use of common sense (safety consciousness).
Indicator	Level of Performance		
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)
1. Job Safety	•	Does not use good judgment as it relates to safety in the workplace. •	Consistently directs or participates in unsafe acts that could potentially harm oneself, other people or property. •	Does not use proper safety equipment or wear personal protective equipment as required. •	Fails to report safety hazards, accidents, and injuries promptly to the immediate supervisor. •	Does not participate in safety training appropriate to the individual’s job and workplace.	•	Occasionally uses poor judgment as it relates to safety in the workplace. •	Has on occasion, directed or participated in unsafe acts that could potentially harm oneself, other people or property. •	Occasionally uses proper safety equipment and wears personal protective equipment as required. •	Does not participate in safety training appropriate to the individual’s job and workplace.	•	Consistently uses good judgment as it relates to safety in the workplace. •	Sets an example for others by protecting the safety and welfare of people and property. •	Consistently uses proper safety equipment and wears personal protective equipment. •	Accepts safety and accident prevention as part of the job assignment. •	Reports safety hazards, accidents, and injuries promptly to the immediate supervisor. •	Participates in safety training appropriate to the individual’s job and workplace.
Comments:
STANDARD 6: Operation and Care of Equipment (reduced to three levels of performance)
Indicator	Level of Performance		
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)
1. Operation and Care of Equipment; i.e., vehicles, pagers, office machines, etc.	•	Does not use, maintain, or care for equipment appropriately (ex: Never inspects district vehicle as appropriate). •	Rarely uses hand tools and/or job related equipment appropriately. •	Damages and/or loses District property on a consistent basis.	•	Occasionally does not use, maintain and/or care for equipment appropriately. •	Occasionally does not use hand tools and/or job related equipment appropriately.	•	Uses, maintains and cares for equipment appropriately, schedules maintenance as required (ex: Inspects District vehicle as appropriate). •	Uses hand tools and/or job related equipment appropriately.
Comments:
STANDARD 7: Compliance with Rules and Procedures *
Indicator	Level of Performance	
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)
1. Compliance with Rules and Procedures	•	Does not comply with local, state, and federal rules and regulations. •	Does not comply with district and campus/site rules, policies, and procedures.	•	Generally complies with local, state, and federal rules and regulations. •	Generally complies with district and campus/site rules, policies, and procedures. •	Generally cooperates with administrative and regulatory authorities to maintain compliance at the campus/sites.
*Failure to meet Standard 7 will result in disciplinary action.
Comments:
Supervisory ONLY: (Optional Factors)
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
1. Scheduling/ Coordinating	•	Lacks the ability to sched ule / coordina te work load between subordinates. •	Does not follow through or monitor to assure subordinates understanding or completion of assigned tasks. •	Lacks patience and understanding.	•	Occasionally shows an inability to schedule/coordinate work load between subordinates. •	Occasionally fails to follow through or monitor to assure subordinates understanding or completion of assigned tasks. •	Has limited patience and understanding.	•	Has the ability to schedule/coordinate work load between subordinates. •	Follows through and monitors to assure subordinates understanding of the tasks. •	Has patience and understanding.	•	Has shown exceptional ability to schedule/coordinate work load between subordinates. •	Follows through and monitors to assure subordinates understanding and completion of the tasks. •	Has exceptional patience and understanding.	•	Has exceptional ability to schedule/Ci>ordmate work load between subordinates. •	Consistently follows through and monitors to assure subordinates understanding and completion of tasks. •	Ensures tasks are understood, supervised and accomplished •	Motivates subordinates to accomplish tasks in a timely manner. •	Has exceptional patience and understanding. Ilas proven to be resourceful in assuring departmental goals are met.
					
f..A
Supervi y Factors: (Optional) - (cont.)
Indicator	Level of Performance				
	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan)	Needs Improvement (Optional Improvement Plan)	Meets Standards (Basic)	Exceeds Standards (Proficient)	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished)
2. Development and Evaluation of Subordinates	•	Employee lacks ability to give direction in an understanding and professional manner. •	Does not ensure welfare of subordinates. •	Consistently proves to be an undesirable role model for subordinates.	•	Employee is inconsistent in using tneir ability to give direction in an understanding and/or professional manner. •	Occasionally does not ensure welfare of subordinates. •	Has, on occasion, proven to be an undesirable role model for subordinates.	•	Employee uses their ability to give direction in an understanding and/or professional manner. •	Ensures welfare of subordinates. •	Has proven to be a desirable role model for subordinates.	•	Employee gives direction in an understanding and professional manner. •	Leads by example and occasionally proves to be a role model for subordinates. Is motivating and demonstrates leadership skills. •	Provides time and information to subordinates for selfimprovement.	•	Employee gives direction in an understanding and professional manner •	Leads by example and consistently proves to be a role model for subordinates •	Builds team work and professionalism through training, trust and respvU •	Is always motivating and demonstrates cxception.il leadership skills •	Takes responsibility tor subordinates actions •	Provides time and information to subordinates for selfimprovement •	Ensures welfare of subordinates.
					 —	—	
3. Work Environment and Equipment	•	Does not maintain a safe and orderly work environment. •	Does not inspect the workplace and equipment •	Never follows through with the appropriate actions.	•	Occasionally maintains a safe and orderly work environment. •	Periodically inspects the workplace and equipment. •	Sometimes follows through with the appropriate actions.	•	Maintains a safe and orderly work environment. •	Inspects the workplace and equipment. •	Follows through with the appropriate actions.	•	Creates and maintains a safe and orderly work environment. •	Regularly inspects the workplace and equipment. •	Usually follows through with the appropriate actions.	•	Consistently creates and maintains a safe and orderly work environment. •	Regularly inspects the workplace and equipment. •	Always follows through with the appropriate actions ♦	Takes initiative in providing a sate and healthy work place
					
Comments:
rev. 7/00
mf- 29445
Attachments Made:
(Must be attached within 10 work days)
Employee’s Signature	Date
Supervisor (if applicable)	Date
Administrator’s Signature
Date
Administrator/Supervisor Employee
Yes	No
Yes	No
TimeCard Directions
These are instructions for using the TimeCard spreadsheet for Claris Work 4.0.
You can only enter data in the red rectangle. At the Biwe»ilY Tim? Shs»t top you enter your unit or school, your name, and thit/tocation: Itouf Ibit 1 your Social Security Number. These items are longer	Name: Yout naro her»
than the: red rectangle and will go outside of the box	SocSec#. 123-45-8789
on the right, it just has to start inside the box. (See at
Soc Sec #| 123-45-6789	right.)
from Saturday's Date: |.7/18/93 through Friday: | 7/24/981 The 'TimeCard IS for two
From All To All From PH To PH Hours Absence weeks, which is the pay period. Pay periods start with Saturday and run until
Friday of the following week. You will have to enter the date for the first Saturday and the rest of the dates on the TimeCard will be calculated for you.
Enter your hours as shown at the right. When you have	Bay	From Alt	To AH	Rom PH	To PH	Hours ।
entered your start time and	Sat					
your ending time you will get a	Sun					
total in the hours column. You	Hon	7:25 AM	11:17 AM	12:22 PM	.... 4.30 PM	800
do not have to enter the AM as						
a part of the time but you do have to enter the PM or the computer will assume AM. Twelve noon, 12:00, is PM. There needs to be a space between the time and the letters AM or PM.
NOTE: If you do not get a total for the day or the total is wrong in the hours column you have an error in one or more of the time periods. To fix, first check the instructions in the paragraph above. If that doesn’t solve your problem -zr-—------——‘ r------------■ _	-—-------——-------rr-----have a coworker
Day Rom AH To AH	Rom	PH To PR	Hours Absonco	Abs ....
Code see if they can see
Sat								a problem. If you are still having a problem call the Help Desk 3569.
Sun								
Hon	72 5 AM	11:17 AM	12:22 PM	4:X* PM	800			
Too	7:30 AM	11:00 AM	12:00 PM	430 PM		800	VA	
Wed								For vacations,
Thu								leave days and
Ri								etc. use the codes
			Total Hours		800	&00		at the bottom of
the spreadsheet to
indicate the kind of day you are taking. Unfortunantly you will have to enter times with the codes for the spreadsheet to work properly. The hours cannot be entered automatically because it does not know if it will be a 8-hour day or a 9 1 /2 hour day. Enter the absence code in the Abs Code column and appropriate
time in and time out in the times columns,
NOTE: Weekly totals are are calculated for hours and for absences. As a double-check of the times you have enter check the weekly totals at the bottom to see of they sum to 40 hours or 38 hours for the 4-day summer weeks.
Enter your overtime into the Overtime column. You will calculate your overtime by hand and just entered into the Overtime column. The overtime column will give a weekly total. Do not put your overtime hours into the regular times. In a later version we will have the overtime subtracted from the regular time.
The two compensation time columns are primarily for use by the department and the employee to keep track of when comp time was earned and when it was used.
When you have completed the TimeCard for the pay period print and sign a copy for your administrator and you may want to print a copy for youself.
NOTE: I would also suggest that you save a copy as a backup. I would include the start date in the name of the file, like TIMECARD980718. This name tells me that it is a TimeCard for the year 1998, July, 18. Then I would start a new file for the next pay period. I would store dll the TimeCards in a folder called TimeCards.
Problems
□	Clearing cells in the spreadsheet
You must use delete or cut to clear a spreadsheet cell. For example in the Abs Code if you clear it by typing a space it will still show a total in the Absence column. To clear the total in the Absence column go to its Abs Code cell and hit the Delete key.
o AM and PM time codes
Incorrect times will result in errors in the Hours and Absences columns. Times must be entered with the colon separating the hours and minutes and a space separating the time and am or pm. Time in the spreadsheet will be on the left of the cell. If the time is on the right side of a cell is has been entered incorrectly and the computer has interpreted it as text.
Another problem can be 12:00 AM as this is midnight and will give you a blank total in the hours or absence column, you need to change it to 12:00 PM.
For the technically advantaged you can enter times as 24 hour time and it will be intrepreted correctly, when you enter 16:30 the spreadsheet will display 4:30 PM.
□	#ARG! or #VALUE!
These are errors warnings. You have entered a time incorrectly. See AM and PM time codes above.
□	As always contact the Help Desk 3569 or by EMail.
Phoenix Union High School District
Schools of Choice
Biweekly Time S These fields	Unit/Location: will extend	Name: outside their boxes	Soc Sec #:				SSL		 YoH.yPlL.. Your name 1 123-45-675	iere 9					
From Saturday’s Date:			7/18/98	through Friday :		7/24/98			Comp Time	
Day- From AM		To AM	From PM To PM	Hours Absence				Abs	Over Code	time		Earned	Used	
Sat Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri		6:30 AM 6:30 AM	11:30 AM 11:30 AM	12:00 PM 12:00 PM							
										
				4:30 PM	9:30					
				4:30 PM	9:30					
	6:30 AM 6:30 AM	,Jl:30.AM 11:30 AM	12:00 PM 12:00 PM	4:30 PM,	9:30					
				4:30 PM	9:30					
										
				Total Hours	38:00	0:00		0:00	0:00	0:00
From Saturday’s Date:			7/25/98	through Friday:		7/31/98			Comp Time	
Day	From AM To AM From PM			To PM	Hours	Absence Abs 	 								• .				Over	1 Earned	Used	
Sat Sbn Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri		r-												—
										
										
									i-			
											
										
										
				Total Hours	0:00	0:00		0:00	0:00	0:00
Record any day*s absence with one oj the following codes: L	Leave Day	JD	Jury	Duty VA	Vacation	NP	No Pay SB	School Business	JI	Job	Injury HL	Holiday						Only cells in red Can be changed.				
. ; Signed:'	' •	' ...Date:
Approved By:;____________.	.________~_________________________
mcnav ur AUKttMtN I
IMPLEMENTING THE MARKET-BASED SALARY SCHEDULE (MBSS)
Reference: CEA Handbook sections as indicated Duration: Effective for 2004-2005 school year
V Temporary/Part-Time Employees and Student Help (Amends Sections 3 and 4)
Temporary/part-time classified employees and student help shall be paid as follows.
A Temporary personnel other than early retirees will be paid at the MBSS minimum rate of the position they are filling.
B Part-time personnel, including short-hour food service workers, shall be placed on Step 4 of SSSS Range A and may move up in that Range one step for each year of service to step 7.
C Student help may be placed on Step 1 of SSSS Range A and may move up to a
maximum of Step 4 of that Range, as determined by the supervisor.
Support Services Salary Schedule Range A							
Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7 (Those new to Step 7 in 04-05)	Step 7 (Those who were on Step 7 in 03-04)
$ 5.15	$ 5.46	$ 5.79	$6.56	$6.76	$7.16	$7.59	$7.80
Date signed
Director of Classified Employment
Date signed
Page 5 of 5
Last printed 8/17/2004 6:52 PM
Memo of Agreement Handbook Language Changes
Classified Employee Association handbook language will be updated/revised to reflect negotiated changes as a result of the classified compensatory/language package 20042005.	'	~
Presiddfft/CEA
Director of Classified Employment
Date
Date
Memo of Agreement Overtime and Compensatory Pay
Reference:	Section 11,2004-2005 Classified Employees’ Handbook
Duration:	Effective for school year 2004-2005
When an employee works on an unpaid Board declared holiday or recess day as designated on the school calendar, he/she shall be paid or receive compensatory time at an overtime rate if required to work outside his/her normal work w'eek or normal work shift.
Pr6sifient/CEA
Director of Classified Employment
MtMU Ut- AUKttMEN I
EARLY RETIREMENT PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM
Reference: CEA Handbook, Section 16
Duration: Effective for 2004-2005 School Year
Paragraph H1 of Section 16 of the CEA Handbook is changed as indicated below in bold.
1. After ten (10) consecutive years of full-time service in the Phoenix Union High School District and achievement of age 50, an employee who opts to take retirement prior to age 65 will be eligible for participation in the early retirement part-time employment program until the end of the contract year in which s/he becomes Medicare eligible.
President, CEA
A A y
Date Signed
Franc Del Fosse, Ph.D.
Director of Classified Employment
Date Signed
MEMO OF AGREEMENT
REQUESTING LEAVE DAYS BEFORE AND AFTER BOARD-APPROVED RECESSES, HOLIDAYS OR VACATIONS
Reference: CEA Handbook, Sections 16 and 18
Duration:	Effective for 2004-2005 School Year
Requests must be submitted in writing at least two (2) workdays prior to the last day before the Board-declared recess period, holiday or vacation, unless a shorter notice is acceptable to the principal/site administrator or the request is based on an emergency. "At least two workdays” means that the principal/site administrator must have two full workdays to review the request. For instance, if the last day before the Board-approved recess, holiday or vacation is a Friday, then the request must be submitted no later than the end of the day on the preceding Tuesday (assumed to be a workday) so that the administrator has all day Wednesday and all day Thursday does not receive a written response prior to the starting time of the leave, then it will be considered to be approved. E-mail is an acceptable medium for transmitting both requests and responses.
Laymon Collins President, CEA
Date signed
Franc Del Fosse, Ph.D.
Director of Classified Employment
Date signed
Page 1 of 1
Last printed 8/17/2004 6:53 PM
MEMO OF AGREEMENT
INTERVAL REQUIRED BETWEEN UNPAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Reference:	CEA Handbook, Section 18
Duration:	Effective for 2004-2005 School Year
When a classified employee returns to the employ of the district after a period of one year of unpaid leave (or a subsequent period of up to one year in the case of a classified employee who entered the LTD program), the classified employee must work one full year to be eligible to apply for another unpaid leave of absence.
Laymon Collins President, CEA
Date signed
Franc Del Fosse, Ph.D.
Director of Classified Employment

Date signed
Page 1 of 1
Last printed 8/17/2004 6:53 PM
MtMU UI- AUKttMLN I
 HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE DURING PERIOD OF LOA
Reference: CEA Handbook, Section 18, paragraph B1m
Duration:	Effective for 2004-2005 School Year
Paragraph B1m of Section 18 is replaced by the following paragraphs B1m and Bin.
B1m. Health insurance benefits will be provided by the District for a classified employee during a health-related leave of absence without pay for one year or less. At the end of one year of leave without pay, health insurance benefits will no longer be provided by the District. The classified employee will return to work, retire, resign or qualify for the long-term disability and health insurance programs through the Arizona State Retirement System (ASRS).
Bin. In the event that a classified employee enters the ASRS Long-Term Disability (LTD) program, the District will subsidize one half of the individual’s health insurance premium in the District’s plan up to $160 per month (exclusive of any ASRS subsidy provided) for the year following the one year of medical leave provided by the District. If this classified employee recovers within a year of being on the LTD program and is deemed fit to return to work, the classified employee may notify the District that he/she is able to return to work. The classified employee will then be offered the first position that is available for which he/she is qualified. If the classified employee accepts the position, the salary will be at the pay range and seniority date which the classified employee would have earned immediately prior to taking a medical leave.
President, CEA
Franc Del Fosse, Ph.D.	Date signed
Director of Classified Employment
Page 1 of 1
Last printed 8/17/2004 6:52 PM
Memo of Agreement
Classified Performance Evaluation
This Memo of Agreement is intended to be in place for the 2004-2005 school year. This memo of Agreement will be reviewed and/or revised during this time as necessary by the Employee Relations office and the CEA President/designee using the. meet and confer process.
The intent of this Memo of xAgreement also suspends the use of the formal and informal evaluation process. All classified employees will be evaluated on the approved Performance Evaluation Form. Adi classified employees will be evaluated prior to the end of their contract each year. If an administrator believes that an employee will fall into the remediation process the initial evaluation must be completed prior to April I. Employees will receive copies of the evaluation within 5 workdays after the evaluation has been completed. The employee may attach any statements) or item(s) ot information to the evaluation form within 10 workdays after receiving the evaluation.
When an employee is rated as Unsatisfactory in two or more indicators the Remediation Form will be utilized. Copies of the completed Remediation Form will be given to the employee at the time of the conference. Employee may choose to send copies of the evaluation and the remediation form to the CEA President.
The remediation plan will provide a period of not less than 45 workdays during which performance must improve. The timeline does not start until the employee has received a copy of the remediation plan. Observations/conferences will be held with the employee no earlier than the 13th workday and no later than the 17th workday and no earlier than the 28* workday and no later than the 32nd workday. At the end of the remediation period the administrator will determine whether the employee has achieved “Meets Standards”. If the employee’s performance has been identified as “Meets Standards” on all indicators he/she will be removed from the remediation process. If the employee’s performance does not “Meets Standards” on all indicators a recommendation for termination may be made to the Executive Director for Employee Relations /Legal Services or designee in accordance ’with existing PUHSD procedures.	'
If within one calendar year after completion of a Remediation Plan repeat occurrences of unsatisfactory performance are documented during an evaluation the employee will be placed on a second remediation plan tor a 25 workday time period. The employee successfully completing this second remediation plan must remain satisfactory for one calendar year exclusive of leave/vacation days or face possible termination.	.
If the Director of Classified Employment in consultation with CEA President/designee determines that a process violation has occurred the remediation timelines will stop. Once the violation has been corrected appropriate action will be taken.
Due process will be granted in accordance with existing PUHSD procedures if termination is recommended.
Classified Assistance Team (C.A.T.):
The Evaluator will inform the employee that a C.A.T. is available should the employee choose to utilize it. The C.A.T. will not be involved in the development of the Remediation Plan. The purpose of the C.A.T. is to assist the employee in the remediation process; act as a resource to improve in identified areas; provide support for the employee. The C.A.T. is not obligated to assist the administrator in the remediation process. The team may consist of one or both of (he following members: CEA President/designee and/or one peer who is knowledgeable or has held the position within the PUHSD and who is not in remediation tor the purpose of meeting Part 3 on the remediation plan form
Presid^fit/CEA
Date
Director of Classified Employment
Date
CLASSIFIED PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
NAME______________________________________________________________.	DATE
LOCATION	JOB TITLE
EVALUATOR:
Standard 1: Job Dudes Rubric (see job description for job duty)
1-	Unsatisfactory (Remediation Plan - Employee fails to perform job duty as identified in job description)
2-	Needs Improvement (Employee inconsistently performs job duty as identified in job description)
3—	Meets Standards (Basic - Employee performs job duty as identified in job description)
4—	Exceeds Standards (Proficient — Employee performs job duty as identified in job description and occasionally seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed)
5—	Exceeds Standards (Distinguished - Employee performs job duty as identified in job description and consistently seeks additional tasks when job duties are completed)
Levels of Performance
(Circle levels of performance that apply)
1.	Major Job Duty #1	N/A	1	2	3	4	5
2.	Major Job Duty #2	N/A	I	2	3	4	5
3.	Major Job Duty #3	N/A	i	2		4	.5
4.	Major Job Duty #4	N/A	I	2	3	4	4
5.	Major Job Duty #5	N/A	I	2	3	4	5
6.	Major Job Duty #6	N/A	1	2	3	4	3
7.	Major Job Duty #7	N/A	I	2	3	4	5
8.	Major Job Duty #8	N/A	I	2	3	4	5
9.	Major Job Duty #9	N/A	I	2	3	4	3
10.	Major Job Duty #10	N/A	1	2	3	4	5
IL	Major Job Dury #1 1	N/A	I	2	3	4	
12.	Major Job Duty #12	' N/A	I	2	3	4	5
13.	Major Job Duty #13	N/A .	I	2	3	4	5
14.	Major Job Duty #14	N/A	1	n	3	4	5
15.	Major Job Duty #15	N/A	1	2	3	4	5
16.	Major Job Duty #16	N/A	1		3	4	5
17.	Major Job Duty #17	N/A	I	2	3	4	5
18.	Major Job Duty #18	N/A	1	7		4	5
Standard 2: Work Performance & Productivity Rubrics
1= Unsatisfactory (Employee lacks thoroughness in work completed and/or work is inaccurate, fails to achieve an acceptable amount of work to meet the job requirements)
2~ Needs Improvement (Employee is inconsistent in the degree of thoroughness and/or accuracy in work completed, inconsistent in producing an acceptable amount of work to meet the job requirements)
3= Meets Standards (Employee's work is accurate and completed on time. Employee produces an acceptable amount of work in relation to the job requirements and utilizes work time to complete projects in an acceptable manner)
4= Exceeds Standards (Employee demonstrates a high level of competence, accuracy and thoroughness of work completed; produces an acceptable amount of work; occasionally excels in production to meet deadlines and utilizes time in an effective manner)
5= Exceeds Standards — Distinguished (Employee always demonstrates a high level of competence and ensures accuracy and thoroughness of the work completed. Employee excels in producing superior work and in work production tb meet guidelines)
I.	Quality of Work		I	2	3	4	5
2.	Volume of Acceptable Work	I	2	3	4	5
3.	Knowledge of Work	1	2	3	4	5
4.	Work Coordination and Organization	I	2	3	. 4	5
5.	Flexibility/Accepts Direction	1	2	3	4	5
6.	Work Judgments/ Initiative	I	2	3	4	5
Standard 3: Attendance Rubrics (reduced to four levels of performance)
1= Unsatisfactory (Employee does not adhere to established work schedule and/or abuses use of leave days)
2=	Needs Improvement (Employee frequently does not adhere to established work schedule and/or is inconsistent in being prompt, punctual and in
attendance at required times.
3— Meets Standards (Employee demonstrates competence in being prompt, punctual and in attendance at required times and follows schedule in including breaks and lunches)
4= Exceeds Standards (Employee takes extra effort to have consistent attendance as a goal)
L Adherence to assigned work schedule and regular attendance 12	3	4
Standard 4: Interpersonal Relationships Rubrics	"
1= Unsatisfactory (Employee does one or more of the following: does not communicate effectively; treats student/parents/staft/public discou rteousl y, inequitably, and/or disrespectfully; has negative or self serving relationships with co-workers: discourages team spirit; is defensive about new approaches to solving problems; is unwilling to accept and act on feedback)
2= Needs Improvement (Employee does one or more of the following: has problems communicating with others; maintains cordial relationships with a few co-workers but doesn't contribute positively in a team setting; demonstrates negative attitudes; seldom accepts approaches to solving problems openlv)
3= Basic (Employee communicates clearly, treats ad with equity and respect, works and supports co-workers, contributes to the team process, is open and approachable about problems, accepts and acts on feedback)
4= Exceeds Standards-Proficient (Employee demonstrates dear and accurate communication skills, demonstrates professionalism when communicating with others, makes an effort to promote a positive attitude and behavior in the workplace, has relationships characterized by cooperation and support, contributes to team spirit, is open and approachable, exhibits the ability of reaching conclusions and making recommendations for solutions)
5— Exceeds Standards^Oistinguished (Employee always communicates dearly: conducts self in a professional manner at all times; shows utmost courtesy, equity and respect in dealing with ochers; makes a consistent effort to promote a positive attitude and behavior in the workplace; has relationships characterized by cooperation and support; demonstrates a positive attitude toward team spirit; is willing to cooperate in achieving the desired goal: is open and approachable about problems; accepts feedback)
1.	Communication skills with other staff,	students and parents	1
2.	Treatment of students, parents and public	I
(equitably, fairly and respectfully)
3.	Team member skills	1
4.	Problem Solving Skills	I
2	3	4	5
2	3	4	5
2	3	4	5
2	3	4	5
Standard 5: Safety Rubrics (reduced to three levels of performance)
1= Unsatisfactory (Employee does not use good judgment as it relates to safety in the workplace)
2— Needs Improvement (Employee occasionally uses poor judgment as it relates to safety in the workplace)
3= Meets Standards (Employee consistently uses good judgment as it relates to safety in the workplace)
Job Safety
2	3
Standard 6: Operation and Care of Equipment Rubrics (reduced to three levels of performance)
1= Unsatisfactory (Employee does not use, maintain or care for equipment property)
213 Needs Improvement (Employee occasionally does not use, maintain or care for equipment properly)
3= Meets Standards (Employee uses, maintains and cares for equipment properly)
1.	Operation and Care of Equipment	I	2	3
Standard 7: Compliance with Policies and Procedures (Failure to meet Standard 7 will result in disciplinary action)
1= Unsatisfactory (Employee does not comply with local, state or federal policies or procedures and/or does not comply with district and/or campus/site rules, policies or procedures)
2—	Meets Standards (Employee generally complies with all policies and procedures)
I. Compliance with Policies and Procedures	I	2
Supervisory ONLY: (Optional Factors) -
1= Unsatisfactory (Employee fails to do one or more of the following: schedule/coordinate workload; give direction to subordinates in professional manner; be a desirable role model for subordinates; follow through to ensure employee's welfare; maintain a safe and orderly work environment)
2= Needs Improvement (Employee does one or more of the following: shows an inability or inconsistency in scheduling/coordinating work of subordinates, fails to give direction and checking for understanding or completion of assignments, has limited patience)
3= Meets Standards (Schedules/coordinates work of subordinates, gives direction and checks for understanding of assignments given, checks completion of assignments, has patience, maintains a safe and orderly environment, inspects workplace equipment, usually follows through with appropriate actions)
4= Exceeds Standards-Proficient (Shows exceptional ability in scheduling/coordinating work of subordinate's, assures subordinates understanding and completion of tasks, has exceptional patience and understanding, leads by example by motivating and demonstrating leadership skills, creates and maintains a safe and orderly work environment, regularly inspects equipment, follows through with appropriate action)
5= Exceeds Standards-Distinguished (Motivates employees to accomplish tasks in timely manner; proves to be a resource in assuring departmental goals are met; builds team work and professionalism through training, trust and respect; takes responsibility for subordinate's actions; takes initiative to provide a safe and healthy work environment)
I.	Scheduling/Coordinating
2.	Development and Evaluation of Subordinates
3.	Work Environment and Equipment
1	2	3	4	5
I	2	3	4	5
1	2	3	4	5
Specific comments must be provided on the comments form for all ratings of Needs Improvement and Unsatisfactory. Comments are encourages for all other ratings.
Administratiye/Evaluators Signature	Date	Employee Signature	Date
Attachments Made:
Admimstrator/Supervisor	______Yes	No
Employee	______Yes	_____No
(Remediation roan must be attached for each unsatisfactory standard identified)
3 h	^7^
For further information refer to section 19 in the Classified Employee’s Handbook
**Signing this form verifies receipt of evaluation only**
Classified Performance Evaluation
Comments Form
NAME:___________________________________;__________
LOCATION:________________i_________________________
Evaluator:_____________________________________
DATE:________________________________________
JOB TITLE:_______________________ ____________
Standard	| Indicator	Comments
	1	
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
Memo of Agreement Job Description Review
This Memo of Agreement is intended to be in place for the 2004-2005 school year. This Memo of Agreement will be reviewed and/or revised prior to May 1, 2005 by the Employee Relations office and the CEA President/designee using the meet and confer process.
This Memo of Agreement supersedes the current language in the Classified Handbook Section 20 for the 2004-2005 school year.
Requests for new/revised job descriptions may be submitted by any employee at anytime and must contain a copy of the recommended description and specific statements as to the duties that will be performed regularly and continuously. No action will be taken if this information is not included. Such a request shall be submitted to the Director of Classified Employment and a copy given to the employee’s immediate supervisor for comment and recommendation and returned to Employee Relations. Job descriptions for all positions are maintained by the district.
New job descriptions will be created based on District need. New job descriptions will identify general duties of each position and are applicable to the entire classification, not just a specific individual.
Job description review is warranted when a significant change in responsibilities or district need has occurred in the required duties of a position.
The Job Description Review process will be as follows for the 2004-2005 school' year:
All requests for new/revised job descriptions must be submitted to the Director of Classified Employment. He/She will confer with the CEA President/designee for review and input. Employee Relations/CEA President/ designee may recommend to the Executive Director of Employee Relations/Legal Services that:
•	the job description be accepted as submitted; or
•	(after consultation with the originator/supervisor) changes to the submitted job description; or
•	the submitted job description duties are contained in an existing job description and that a new description is not warranted; or
•	the submitted job description be denied.
If consensus cannot be reached the Executive Director of Employee Relations/Legal Services will make the final determination.
Recommendation for placement of the salary schedule will be based on the Market Based Salary schedule formula.
The administrative supervisor is responsible for implementing job descriptions and deciding
Director of Classified Employment	Date
rviu.rvt^' VI MkJIVE.IL/VlC.rX i
IMPLEMENTING THE MARKET-BASED SALARY SCHEDULE (MBSS)
Reference: CEA Handbook sections as indicated Duration: Effective for 2004-2005 school year
Employees Below MBSS Minimum Rates
The District will use the money (e.g., $75,000) budgeted for wage adjustment to bring each classified employee whose 2004-2005 rate1 is below the minimum rate of her/his MBSS range up to the step of the 2004-2005 support services salary schedule (SSSS) range of her/his position that equals or exceeds the rate of her/his MBSS range. All such increases will be made retroactive to the start date of the employee’s 20042005 contract.
This increase will be put into effect before the addition of any increases due because of professional growth. Professional growth increments will be added onto the aboveminimum rates with the exception that no employee will receive a rate greater than the highest step of the SSSS range of the position the employee holds.
Example: The Instructional Assistant position is MBSS range 27, which has a minimum rate of $9.79. The position is SSSS range 16, with rates of $9.29 (step 1), $9.57 (step 2) and $10.15 (step 3). An employee in this position who is being paid at SSSS steps 1 or 2 is below the MBSS minimum rate so s/he would be moved up to step 3 with a rate of $ 9.79. S/he would be paid retroactively at this rate from the start date of her/his contract. Any professional growth increments due in 2004-2005 would be added onto the step 3 rate.
1	All rates are hourly except where indicated.
Page 1 of 5
Last printed 8/17/2004 6:52 PM
IMPLEMENTING THE MARKET-BASED SALARY SCHEDULE (MBSS)
Reference: CEA Handbook sections as indicated Duration: Effective for 2004-2005 school year
II	New Hires (Amends Section 4)
All employees newly-hired into the District will be placed on the MBSS and will be paid at the MBSS minimum rate.2
Example. A newly-hired Campus Laboratory Technician would be paid $ 11.24 (the MBSS minimum rate for that position)
2 Exceptions to this procedure are allowed under the "Exceptions to the Salary Plan” provision of the negotiated "Classified Compensation Plan 2004-2005 Proposal” approved by the CEA membership for the 2004-2005 school year.
Page 2 of 5
Last printed 8/17/2004 6:52 PM
JTtl-ITlvz VI MVI\L.UmL.n I
IMPLEMENTING THE MARKET-BASED SALARY SCHEDULE (MBSS)
Reference: CEA Handbook sections as indicated Duration: Effective for 2004-2005 school year
III Promotions (Amends Section 30)
Employees promoted to higher positions will be placed as follows.
A All employees promoted to higher positions will be placed on the MBSS.
B An employee who is promoted one MBSS range will receive the greater of
1	The minimum rate of the new MBSS range, or
2	An increase of 2.5% over the rate s/he was receiving in the position s/he held immediately before being promoted.
Example 1: A Jobs-in-lndustry Assistant (MBSS range 24) who is making $ 7.80 (SSSS range 13, step 1) and is promoted to Cook (MBSS range 25) would be paid $ 9.32 (the minimum rate of MBSS range 24) because that is greater than $ 8.00 (an increase of 2.5% over $7.80).
Example 2: A Jobs-in-lndustry Assistant (MBSS range 24) who is making $ 9.02 (SSSS range 13, step 4) and is promoted to Cook (MBSS range 25) would be paid $ 9.24 (i.e., an increase of 2.5% over $9.02) because that is greater than $9.32 (the minimum rate of MBSS range 25).
C An employee who is promoted two or more MBSS ranges will receive the greater of
1	the minimum rate of the new MBSS range, or
2	An increase of 5% over the rate s/he was receiving in the position s/he held immediately before being promoted.
Example 1: A Carpenter (MBSS range 44) who is making $13.19 (SSSS range 22, step 1) and is promoted to Carpenter/Chief (MBSS range 46) would be paid $ 15.65 (the minimum rate of MBSS range 46) because that is greater than $13.85 (an increase of 5% over $ 13.19).
Example 2: A Carpenter (MBSS range 44) who is making $16.17 (SSSS range 22, step 5) and is promoted to Carpenter/Chief (MBSS range 46) would be paid $ 16.98 (an increase of 5% over $ 16.17) because that is greater than $ 15.65 (the minimum rate of MBSS range 46).
Page 3 of 5
Last printed 8/17/2004 6:52 PM
IMPLEMENTING THE MARKET-BASED SALARY SCHEDULE (MBSS)
Reference: CEA Handbook sections as indicated Duration: Effective for 2004-2005 school year IV Permanent Transfers to Positions With Lower MBSS Ranges (Amends Section 29)
Employees transferred permanently to positions with lower MBSS ranges will be placed as follows.
A All employees transferred permanently to positions with lower MBSS ranges will be placed on the MBSS.
B An employee who voluntarily transfers permanently to a position with a lower MBSS range will be paid at the MBSS minimum rate of the lower range.
Example: A Food Service Lunch Program Clerk (MBSS range 25) who voluntarily transfers to a Grill Specialist (MBSS range 20) will be paid $ 8.24 (the minimum rate for MBSS range 20).
C An employee whose position is eliminated and who is transferred involuntarily and permanently to a position with a lower MBSS range will be paid at the lower of:
1	The rate determined by the SSSS step the employee held in the previous position and the SSSS range of the new position or
2	the MBSS maximum rate of the new position.
Example 1: A Groundskeeper (MBSS range 27) who is making $ 9.29 (SSSS range 16, step 1) and is transferred involuntarily and permanently to a Custodian (MBSS range 25, SSSS range 16) would be paid $ 9.29 (step 1 of range 16) because that is less than 13.19 (the maximum rate of MBSS range 25).3
Example 2: A Library Technician (MBSS range 29) who is making $ 17.98 (SSSS range 16, step 7 with two professional growth increments) and is transferred involuntarily and permanently to a Bookstore Assistant (MBSS range 23, SSSS range 15) would be paid $ 13.30 (the maximum rate of MBSS range 23) because that is less than $14.26 (the rate of SSSS range 15, step 7 with two professional growth increments).
3 Note that in this example, although the MBSS ranges of the two positions are different, the SSSS ranges are the same, so the employee makes the same rate after the transfer as s/he did before.
Page 4 of 5
Last printed 8/17/2004 6:52 PM