Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Dayton City School District Board of Education and Dayton Education Association (DEA), Ohio Education Association (OEA), National Education Association (NEA), (2003)
K#: 830651
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
'2 OoO
MASTER CONTRACT
between
THE DAYTON EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
and
THE DAYTON CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT
JULY 1,2003
THROUGH
JUNE 30,2004
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MASTER CONTRACT PREAMBLE........................................1
CODE OF ETHNICS OF THE EDUCATION PROFESSION - PREAMBLE......1
ARTICLE ON	E - RECOGNITION AND ASSOCIATION RIGHTS...............4
ARTICLE TW	O - NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURE.......................8
ARTICLE TH	REE - GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.......................10
ARTICLE FO	UR - PROFESSIONAL CONFERENCES AND ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES.....................................15
ARTICLE FI	VE - JOINT ADMINISTRATION/ASSOCIATION MEETINGS.......15
ARTICLE SI	X - JOB DESCRIPTION.............................16
ARTICLE SE	VEN - WORK YEAR, SCHOOL CALENDAR AND PAY DATES.......16
ARTICLE EI	GHT - SCHOOL DAY................................17
ARTICLE NI	NE - SCHOOL PROCEDURES...............................21
ARTICLE TEN	- SCHOOL FACULTY COUNCIL.......................22
ARTICLE ELE	VEN - PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES FUND..................23
ARTICLE TWE	LVE - CLASS SIZE....................................24
ARTICLE THI	RTEEN - FACULTY MEETINGS.......................26
ARTICLE FOURTEEN - ACADEMIC FREEDOM........................27
ARTICLE FIFTEEN - TEACHING ENVIRONMENT, SUPPLIES AND FACILITIES.27
ARTICLE SIXTEEN - NON-INSTRUCTIONAL DUTIES......................29
ARTICLE SEVENTEEN - COOPERATING PROFESSIONAL MEMBER........30
ARTICLE EIGHTEEN - PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS NEW TO THE SYSTEM.30
ARTICLE NINETEEN - CONVERSION COMMUNITY SCHOOL.............31
ARTICLE TWENTY - YEAR-ROUND SCHOOL.........................32
ARTICLE TWENTY-ONE - INDIVIDUALIZED EDUCATIONAL PLANS (lEPs) AND
THREE-YEAR RE-EVALUATIONS (RE-EVALS) FOR SPECIAL EDUCATION .
STUDENTS...............................................33
ARTICLE TWENTY-TWO - SENIORITY.............................  34
ARTICLE TWENTY-THREE - PERSONNEL RECORDS...................34
ARTICLE TWENTY-FOUR - PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER CONTRACT...36
ARTICLE TWENTY-SIX - PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER-PROTECTION..42
ARTICLE TWENTY-SEVEN - PROFESSIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY.........46
ARTICLE TWENTY-EIGHT - SUMMER SCHOOL AND SUMMER SCHOOL PROGRAMS..............................................  48
i
Table of Content - cont'd
ARTICLE TWENTY-NINE - NIGHT SCHOOL.............................51
ARTICLE THIRTY - DEPARTMENTALIZATION/CLUSTERING................52
ARTICLE THIRTY-ONE - JOINT CURRICULUM ADVISORY COMMITTEE.....53
ARTICLE THIRTY-TWO - PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE......53
ARTICLE THIRTY-THREE - SICK LEAVE..............................55
ARTICLE THIRTY-FOUR - SICK LEAVE BANK..........................58
ARTICLE THIRTY-FIVE - PERSONAL LEAVE.........................59
ARTICLE THIRTY-SIX - FUNERAL LEAVE......................     61
ARTICLE THIRTY-SEVEN - PROFESSIONAL LEAVE BENEFITS.............62
ARTICLE THIRTY-EIGHT - PAID SABBATICAL LEAVE...............  62
ARTICLE THIRTY-NINE - ASSAULT LEAVE..........................64
ARTICLE FORTY - UNPAID MEDICAL LEAVE.........................66
ARTICLE FORTY-ONE - UNPAID CHILD CARE LEAVE....................68
ARTICLE FORTY-TWO - UNPAID MILITARY LEAVE......................69
ARTICLE FORTY-THREE - LEAVE FOR SERVICE IN SPECIAL GOVERNMENTAL.
ASSIGNMENTS.................................................69
ARTICLE FORTY-FOUR - LEAVE FOR NATIONAL AND STATE OFFICERS OF ASSOCIATION, POLITICAL LEAVE FOR PROFESSIONAL IMPROVEMENT THROUGH TRAVEL, PROFESSIONAL STUDY OR COMMUNITY SCHOOL.....71
ARTICLE FORTY-FIVE - FORMAL EVALUATION OF PROFESSIONAL STAFF....
MEMBERS AND DOCUMENTATION.................................73
ARTICLE FORTY-SIX - JUST CAUSE/TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS/NON-RENEWAL OF CONTRACTS...............................................79
ARTICLE FORTY-SEVEN - FITNESS FOR DUTY - MEDICAL EXAMINATION...82
ARTICLE FORTY-EIGHT - DISCIPLINE OF PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS.84
ARTICLE FORTY-NINE - INSURANCE...............................85
ARTICLE FIFTY - SALARY SCHEDULES FOR CLASSROOM PROFESSIONAL STAFF ....
MEMBERS CLASSROOM PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS OCCUPATIONAL ...
AND PHYSICAL THERAPISTS - EFFECTIVE 7/1/02................94
ARTICLE FIFTY-ONE - STRS PICK-UP UTILIZING THE SALARY METHOD...106
ARTICLE FIFTY-TWO - AUTHORIZED PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS...........106
ARTICLE FIFTY-THREE - SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE...................108
ii
Table of Content - cont'd
ARTICLE FIFTY-FOUR - EXTENDED TIME ASSIGNMENTS.................109
ARTICLE FIFTY-FIVE - SCHOOL NURSES.............................110
ARTICLE FIFTY-SIX - LIBRARY/MEDIA CENTERS......................Ill
ARTICLE FIFTY-SEVEN - COUNSELORS...............................111
ARTICLE FIFTY-EIGHT - INDIVIDUAL AND SMALL GROUP INSTRUCTORS...112
ARTICLE FIFTY-NINE - MONTESSORI SCHOOLS.......................113
ARTICLE SIXTY - PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS FOR OUT OF SCHOOL...114
AND HOSPITALIZED STUDENTS...................................114
ARTICLE SIXTY-ONE - LONG-TERM RESERVE TEACHERS AFTER THE60THDAY.........................................        115
ARTICLE SIXTY-TWO - SPECIAL EDUCATION WORK STUDY COORDINATORS..116
ARTICLE SIXTY-THREE - AUXILIARY SERVICES PERSONNEL.............117
ARTICLE SIXTY-FOUR - CONTINUATION OF PAY/TRANSITIONAL DUTY.....118
ARTICLE SIXTY-FIVE - EFFECTS ON THE CONTRACT...................122
iii
DAYTON BOARD OF EDUCATION AND DAYTON EDUCATION ASSOCIATION MASTER CONTRACT
PREAMBLE
A.	A high quality integrated education for the children of the Day ton City Schools is the paramount objective of this school district and good morale in the professional staff is vital for the accomplishment of this objective.
B.	Except to the extent specifically modified by the terms of this CONTRACT, the Dayton Board of Education (hereinafter referred to as BOARD) has all powers, rights, and reserve duties conferred on it under the provisions of the Revised Code of Ohio.
C.	Except to the extent specifically modified by the terms of this CONTRACT, the Superintendent and his/her administrative staff (hereinafter referred to as the ADMINISTRATION) have all powers, rights, and duties conferred on them both under the provisions of the Revised Code of Ohio and by the policies of the BOARD, and the Code of Ethics of the Education Profession adopted by the 1975 NE A Representative Assembly.
D.	Except to the extent specifically modified by the terms of this CONTRACT, the Professional Staff Members have all authority, rights, duties and responsibilities conferred upon them under the provisions of State and/or federal law and/or the standards established by the State BOARD of Education, and by the policies of the BOARD, and the Code of Ethics of the Education Profession adopted by the 1975 NEA Representative Assembly.
Code of Ethics of the Education Profession
Preamble
The educator, believing in the worth and dignity of each human being, recognizes the supreme importance of the pursuit of truth, devotion to excellence, and the nurture of democratic principles. Essential to these goals is the protection of freedom to learn and to teach and the guarantee of equal educational opportunity for all. The educator accepts the responsibility to adhere to the highest ethical standards.
The educator recognizes the magnitude of the responsibility inherent in the teaching process. The desire for the respect and confidence of one’s colleagues, of students, of parents, and of the members of the community provides the incentive to attain and maintain the highest possible degree of ethical conduct. The Code of Ethics of the Education Profession indicates the aspiration of all educators and provides standards by which to judge conduct.
The remedies specified by the NEA and/or its affiliates for the violation of any provision of this Code shall be exclusive and no such provision shall be enforceable in any form other than one specifically designated by the NEA or its affiliates.
1
PRINCIPLE I
Commitment to the Student
The educator strives to help each student realize his or her potential as a worthy and effective member of society. The educator therefore works to stimulate the spirit of inquiry, the acquisition of knowledge and understanding, and the thoughtful formulation of worthy goals.
In fulfillment of the obligation to the student, the educator —
1.	Shall not unreasonably restrain the student from independent action in the pursuit of learning.
2.	Shall not unreasonably deny the student access to varying points of view.
3.	Shall not deliberately suppress or distort subject matter relevant to the student’s progress.
4.	Shall make reasonable effort to protect the student from conditions harmful to learning or to health and safety.
5.	Shall not intentionally expose the student to embarrassment or disparagement.
6.	Shall not on the basis of race, color, creed, sex, national origin, marital status, political or religious beliefs, family, social or cultural background, or sexual orientation, unfairly —
a.	Exclude any student from participation in any program.
b.	Deny benefits to any student.
c.	Grant any advantage to any student.
7.	Shall not use professional relationships with students for private advantage.
8.	Shall not disclose information about students obtained in the course of professional service unless disclosure serves a compelling professional purpose or is required by law.
PRINCIPLE II
Commitment to the Profession
The education profession is vested by the public with a trust and responsibility requiring the highest ideals of professional service.
In the belief that the quality of the services of the education profession directly influences the nation and its citizens, the educator shall exert every effort to raise professional standards, to promote a climate that encourages the exercise of professional judgment, to achieve conditions that attract persons worthy of the trust to careers in education, and to assist in preventing the practice of the profession by unqualified persons.
In fulfillment of the obligation to the profession, the educator—
1.	Shall not in an application for a professional position deliberately make a false statement or fail to disclose a material fact related to competency and qualifications.
2.	Shall not misinterpret his/her professional qualifications.
2
3.	Shall not assist any entry into the profession of a person known to be unqualified in respect to character, education, or other relevant attribute.
4.	Shall not knowingly make a false statement concerning the qualifications of a candidate for a professional position.
5.	Shall not assist a non-educator in the unauthorized practice of teaching.
6.	Shall not disclose information about colleagues obtained in the course of ' professional service unless disclosure serves a compelling professional purpose or is required by law.
7.	Shall not knowingly make false or malicious statements about a colleague.
8.	Shall not accept any gratuity, gift, or favor that might impair or appear to influence professional decisions or actions.
— Adopted by the 1975 NEA Representative Assembly
E.	The Professional Staff Members have the responsibility for implementing the policies of the BOARD in providing quality educational opportunity for all students.
F.	The BOARD has the right under Ohio law to adopt all policies regarding the governance and management of the school district.
G.	The Superintendent, the administrative staff, and the Professional Staff Members each have a right to provide input and assistance to the BOARD concerning programs which will provide the best possible education for students.
H.	The goal of the Dayton Board of Education with the concurrence of the Dayton Education Association is to support a competitive economic package, improve public image, provide effective discipline, facilitate strong communication, and provide effective administration as essentials to the recruitment and maintenance of qualified teachers.
3
ARTICLE ONE RECOGNITION AND ASSOCIATION RIGHTS
1.01
1.02
Recognition
The BOARD hereby recognizes the ASSOCIATION as the sole and exclusive employee representative for all Professional Staff Members employed by the BOARD in the employee unit set forth in Section 1.02.
Representation
1.02.1 Bargaining Unit Defined
As used in this CONTRACT, the term "Professional Staff Member" is defined as, and the employee unit covered by this CONTRACT is defined as all certificated personnel employed by the BOARD, including Youth Employment Work Training, Adult Basic and Literacy Education and Resource Teachers, but excluding the following:
1.02.2	Exclusions of the Bargaining Unit Superintendent of Schools	Psychologists
	Associate Superintendents	Executive Principals
	Deputy Superintendents	Intern Psychologists
	Executive Directors	Student Action Advisors
	Directors	Principals
	Reserve teachers employed on a daily basis	Assistant Principals
	Associate Directors	Deans
	Administrative Coordinators/Supervisors	Administrative Interns
	Assistant and/or Associate Supervisors	Assistant Superintendents
	Paraprofessionals	Attorneys
All others for whom certification in supervision or ADMINISTRATION is required as a condition of employment and all other non-certificated employees of the BOARD
Certified Occupational Therapist Assistants
Certified Physical Therapist Assistants
Interpreters
Social workers (non-certificated)
For purposes of this Article, the term "reserve teacher" does not include Professional Staff Members assigned to perform reserve services who hold a regular full-term limited or continuing Professional Staff Member's contract or who are long-term reserves (i.e., non-contract Professional Staff Member assigned to the same position for a period of more than sixty (60) consecutive days).
4
1.03 ASSOCIATION Rights
Recognition of the ASSOCIATION as the employee representative shall entitle the ASSOCIATION to the following exclusive rights. Only the ASSOCIATION or its affiliated or parent organizations have the following rights:
1.03.1	The building representative of the ASSOCIATION in each individual school
will have the use of a bulletin board in the Professional Staff Members’ lounge, designated for ASSOCIATION announcements. No political announcements will be posted on said bulletin board. (The word "political" as used in this CONTRACT refers only to public sector candidate endorsements and does not include ASSOCIATION politics.)
1.03.2	The ASSOCIATION shall be able to make brief non-political announcements
during School Faculty meetings. Permission to make announcements shall not be unreasonably withheld, and the ASSOCIATION shall have use of the building public address system to make non-political announcements subject to the prior approval of the Building Principal.
1.03.3 The ASSOCIATION building representative will have the right to use individual school equipment. The use is strictly to service the legitimate business of the ASSOCIATION as it relates to the membership within the building, such as the duplication of records, notices, correspondence, etc. The purpose is for internal business use of the ASSOCIATION and is not for public distribution. Supplies in connection with such equipment used will be furnished or paid for by the ASSOCIATION.
1.03.4	The ASSOCIATION has the right to use a school building, provided that a
request is made and use arranged for in advance. The ASSOCIATION building representative shall have the right to call meetings of ASSOCIATION members assigned to the building. Prior to scheduling or calling any such meeting, the ASSOCIATION building representative shall advise the Building Principal of the meeting. No ASSOCIATION meeting may be scheduled during class time, in conflict with other previously scheduled meetings, or at any time when the meeting will disrupt the work activity of any Professional Staff Member to be in attendance at the meeting without the prior approval of the Building Principal. Such approval shall not be unreasonably denied.
1.03.5	The ASSOCIATION has the right to place organizational identification on its
members’ school mailboxes.
1.03.6	The ASSOCIATION shall receive an advance copy of the agenda of each
BOARD meeting. Such agenda shall be sent to the ASSOCIATION by interschool mail at the same time it is sent to the news media. The ASSOCIATION shall also receive copies of all public documents released by the BOARD. Such documents shall be sent to the ASSOCIATION by inter-school mail at the time they are released to the public.
1.03.7 A representative of the ASSOCIATION shall be permitted to address the BOARD during the hearing of the Bargaining Units. This representative may speak on identified issues from the agenda, prior to Board actions for up to five
5
(5) minutes. There will be no personal attacks, and the representatives will speak in a professional manner on bargaining unit issues.
1.03.8 The following information shall be provided to the ASSOCIATION as early as practicable following BOARD or administrative action:
a.	The names and addresses of newly employed Professional Staff Members
b.	Notification of all Professional Staff Members transferred from one work site to another.
c.	The names and addresses of reserve teachers who reach their 61st day in the same assignment.
1.03.09 The ASSOCIATION has the right to participate in the initial orientation meeting for new Professional Staff Members if such meeting is held.
1.03.10 The ASSOCIATION shall be serviced by the BOARD'S regular daily inter-school mail system including pickup and delivery and use of individual school mailboxes so long as the ASSOCIATION maintains its office within the city limits of the City of Dayton, Ohio. The inter-school mail system may be used to send mailings to the ADMINISTRATION and to the elected officers of the ASSOCIATION and the Building Representatives of the ASSOCIATION and to individual Professional Staff Members; provided, however, all bulk mailings shall be sent to and distributed in individual mailboxes by the Building Representative. The inter-school mail system may not be used by the ASSOCIATION as a means to disseminate political information. All mail sent by the ASSOCIATION through the inter-school mail system will relate to the current business of the Dayton Public Schools.
1.03.11	The ASSOCIATION will be granted a leave of absence from active teaching
duties for up to two (2) Professional Staff Members per school year. The ASSOCIATION will reimburse the BOARD monthly the total cost for the Professional Staff Member's regular contractual salary, health, dental and life insurance. The Treasurer of the ASSOCIATION shall make arrangements with the Treasurer of the BOARD for a payment schedule. The Professional Staff Member(s) shall accrue all rights and privileges provided by this CONTRACT and shall receive payroll checks by inter-school mail. At the commencement of the school year following the expiration of the leave of absence, a Professional Staff Member on leave under this paragraph will be returned to the same position held prior to the leave, if available, or, if not available, to a position comparable to that which was occupied prior to the granting of the leave, with consideration given to the length of service and teaching certification of the returning Professional Staff Member.
1.03.12	The President or Vice President of the ASSOCIATION and/or a designee
and/or the Labor Relations Consultant of the ASSOCIATION shall have the right to visit schools. Either prior to or immediately upon the President's, Vice President's or the Labor Relations Consultant's arrival at any school, the President, Vice President and/or Labor Relations Consultant shall advise the Principal, or in the absence of the Principal, the acting building administrator,
6
of his/her desire to visit the school and secure the permission of such administrator to make the visit.
Such permission will not be denied but may be delayed only if the visit, at the time desired, will, in the opinion of the Principal, interfere with the normal teaching duties of the Professional Staff Member to be contacted. Visits that are made to discuss with the Principal special problems of Professional Staff Members must be arranged in advance with the Principal or, in the Principal's absence, with the acting building administrator.
1.04 Directory
The ADMINISTRATION will make available to all Professional Staff Members a directory listing the names, addresses, phone numbers and job assignments on record of all employees of the BOARD. The target date for the availability of this directory will be December 1st.
1.05	Copies of CONTRACT
The ADMINISTRATION will provide a copy of this CONTRACT to all Professional Staff Members.
1.06	Fair Share Fee
1.06.1	All Professional Staff Members who are not members in good standing of the
ASSOCIATION, are required to pay the ASSOCIATION a fair share fee, as permitted by the provisions of Section 4117.09 (C) of the Ohio Revised Code. The fair share fee amount shall be certified to the Treasurer of the BOARD by the ASSOCIATION. Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring any Professional Staff Member to become a member of the ASSOCIATION as a condition for serving or retaining employment or any benefits under this CONTRACT.
1.06.2	The amount to be deducted from the pay of all fee payers shall not exceed the
total dues as paid by members of the ASSOCIATION, and such deductions shall continue through the remaining number of payroll periods over which ASSOCIATION membership dues are deducted.
1.06.3 ASSOCIATION also agrees to notify the BOARD if a Professional Staff Member files a court action or Unfair Labor Practice. The ASSOCIATION will provide the BOARD with a copy of all decisions issued by impartial decision makers with respect to objections made by non-members.
Under Ohio law, employees who choose not to join the ASSOCIATION may elect to not pay the portion of their fair share fees based upon ASSOCIATION expenditures in support of partisan politics or ideological causes not germane to the work of the ASSOCIATION in the realm of collective bargaining. To elect not to pay that portion, the non-member must file a written objection according to a procedure adopted by the ASSOCIATION. Not later than December 15th of each year, or not later than thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of the check-off of the fair share fee, whichever is applicable,
7
the ASSOCIATION will send each non-member an explanation of the procedure and an explanation of the basis for the fair share fee to enable the non-member to gauge the propriety of the fee.
Payroll deduction of such annual fair share fees shall commence on the first pay date which occurs on or after January 15th annually. In the case of unit employees newly hired after the beginning of the school year, the payroll deduction shall commence on the first pay date on or after the latter of:
A.	Sixty (60) days of employment in a bargaining unit position; or
B.	January 15th
1.06.4	The Treasurer of the BOARD shall, upon notification from the
ASSOCIATION that a member has terminated membership, commence the check-off of the fair share fee with respect to the former member, and the amount of the fee yet to be deducted shall not be greater than the annual membership dues less the amount previously paid. The deduction of said amount shall commence on the pay date occurring on or after forty-five (45) days from termination of membership.
1.06.5 The BOARD agrees to promptly transmit all payroll deducted fair share fees to the ASSOCIATION. The BOARD further agrees to accompany each such transmittal with a list of the names of the bargaining unit members for whom all such deductions were made, the period covered, and the amounts deducted for each.
1.06.6	The ASSOCIATION agrees to indemnify the BOARD for any cost or liability
incurred as a result of the good faith implementation and enforcement of this provision, provided that:
1.06.7	The BOARD shall give a ten (10) day written notice of any claim made or
action filed against the BOARD by a non-member for which indemnification may be claimed.
1.06.8 The ASSOCIATION shall reserve the right to designate counsel to represent and defend the BOARD, unless the BOARD elects to select its own counsel, in which event the BOARD shall be responsible for paying its own attorney's fees.
ARTICLE TWO NEGOTIATIONS PROCEDURE
2.01 Initiation of Negotiations
The BOARD or the ASSOCIATION will serve written notice on the other of its intention to either terminate, amend or modify this CONTRACT, not more than one hundred and twenty (120) and not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date.	.
8
2.02 Scope of Negotiations
The BOARD shall meet with the recognized bargaining representatives for the purpose of negotiating in good faith all items which may affect the wages, salaries, hours and other terms and conditions of employment of the employees and the continuation, modification or deletion of an existing provision of this CONTRACT.
2.03 Meetings
Meetings between the negotiating team of the ASSOCIATION and the BOARD shall be scheduled for a mutually satisfactory time within fifteen (15) days after the request for a meeting, unless a mutually satisfactory later date is agreed upon. Negotiations shall be completed within sixty (60) days from the date of the first negotiation meeting, unless there is a mutually agreed upon extension.
2.04 Negotiations Representatives
Neither party shall have any control over the selection of the negotiation representatives of the other party. The negotiation representatives of each party shall be clothed with all power and authority necessary to make proposals, consider proposals, make concessions and reach tentative agreements subject only to ratification by both parties.
2.05 Reporting Negotiation Progress
Interim reports of progress may be made to the ASSOCIATION by its representatives and to the BOARD by the Superintendent or his/her designated representative; however, each party shall be restricted to reporting to its own organization.
2.06 Media Releases
While negotiations are in progress, any release prepared for the news media shall be approved by both groups. In the event that either party declares impasse, this provision shall no longer be binding.
2.07 Written Proposals and Counter-Proposals
The parties shall make a good faith effort to present proposals and counterproposals in written form.
2.08 Disagreement
The BOARD and the ASSOCIATION agree to utilize an alternate settlement dispute procedure through the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, as opposed to the fact finding process contained in O.R.C. Section 4117.14(C) and under Ohio Administrative Code Rule 4117-9-05(B), (C).
2.09 Contract
2.09.1 When the parties reach agreement on a CONTRACT, it shall be reduced to writing and presented to the BOARD by the Superintendent and to the membership of the ASSOCIATION by its President or his/her designee.
9
2.09.2	Adoption of the aforesaid CONTRACT shall be accomplished upon
ratification by the membership of the ASSOCIATION and ratification by the BOARD. Signature of the completed CONTRACT shall occur within ten (10) days after ratification by both parties.
2.10	No Reprisals
No reprisals of any kind shall be taken by either party or by any member of the ADMINISTRATION against any party involved in negotiations.
2.11	Reopening of Negotiations
Negotiations on the existing CONTRACT may be reopened on any item(s) at any time prior to the expiration of the CONTRACT, provided that both parties mutually agree to reopen negotiations on said item(s).
2.12	Bargaining History
If proposed language does not appear in the final settlement, such proposed language shall be treated as never having been proposed. In other words, the parties desire that "bargaining history" not be a factor in the interpretation of this CONTRACT.
ARTICLE THREE GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
3.0	1 Grievance Definition
A “grievance” is defined as any question or controversy between any Professional Staff Member or the ASSOCIATION with the BOARD and/or the ADMINISTRATION concerning the interpretation, application of, compliance with or noncompliance with the provisions of this CONTRACT.
3.02 Concern Procedure
3.02.1	A “concern” is defined as any questions or issue between any Professional
Staff Member or the ASSOCIATION with the BOARD and/or the ADMINISTRATION concerning any complaint, dispute, problem or other condition which is not a grievance as defined in Section 3.01.
3.02.2 The procedures set forth in Section 3.07 shall be applicable to the processing of any concern. The provisions of Level Four - Arbitration shall not be applicable to any concern, and the decision of the Superintendent shall be final with respect to any concern.
3.03 Days Defined
The limits in days under each section shall be counted as calendar days; however, the calendar days during the winter break, spring break and inter-session shall not be counted in computing the time limits. The number of days indicated at each level shall be considered as maximum. The time limits may, however, be extended by mutual contract
10
of the parties concerned, expressed in writing. Requests to extend the time limits will not be unreasonably denied.
3.04 Filing Timeline
If any grievance is not initiated at Level One within thirty (30) days after the Professional Staff Member knew of the event or condition upon which it is based or with reasonable diligence should have known of such event or condition, the grievance shall be considered waived, shall no longer be deemed a grievance, and may not be processed as such. This thirty (30) day timeline includes the informal level. However, if a condition is recurring, the thirty (30) day time limit will be applied to the most recent occurrence.
3.05 Notification of Adjustment to ASSOCIATION
Nothing required by this formal grievance or concern procedure shall be construed as limiting the privilege of any Professional Staff Member having a complaint or problem to discuss the matter informally with any appropriate representative of the ADMINISTRATION and having such matter adjusted without intervention and/or consultation of the ASSOCIATION, provided the adjustment is not inconsistent with the .	terms of this CONTRACT. The ASSOCIATION shall be advised of such adjustment at
the time it is given.
3.06 Grievance Representative
The ASSOCIATION shall designate one Professional Staff Member as its representative for processing grievances or concerns in each school building. Any Professional Staff Member may consult this representative for assistance; provided, however, any activity of this type shall be conducted at times which will not interfere with the normal classroom teaching duties of the Professional Staff Members involved.
3.07 Processing of Grievances
All grievances shall be processed as follows:
3.07.1 Informal Procedure
A Professional Staff Member with a grievance should discuss it with the Principal of the school to which the Professional Staff Member is regularly assigned or, in the case of traveling Professional Staff Members, in the event the subject matter of the grievance involved events which occurred in a different school, the Principal of the school in which such event occurred, either individually or together with the Professional Staff Member's official ASSOCIATION representative. Dispositions of any grievances at this level shall be without precedent to either the ADMINISTRATION or the ASSOCIATION for any purpose whatsoever.
3.07.2 Levels
A.	Level One - Principal
In the event the Professional Staff Member does not desire to utilize the Informal Procedure or in the event the Professional Staff Member is not
11
satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at the Informal Procedure level, or if no decision has been rendered by the Principal within seven (7) days after the discussion of the grievance referred to in the Informal Procedure, the Professional Staff Member may file the grievance in writing with the Principal using the prescribed form. The ASSOCIATION representative may and should assist in writing the grievance, whether the Informal Procedure has or has not been followed, such filing in writing must take place no later than thirty (30) days after the Professional Staff Member knew of the event or condition upon which it is based or with reasonable diligence should have known of such event or conditions and shall state the specific basis for the grievance and the specific section of this CONTRACT at issue.
1.	Within seven (7) days after receipt of the grievance, the Principal shall either issue a decision to the aggrieved person in writing or conduct a meeting to investigate the grievance.
2.	In the event the Principal desires (s)he may conduct a meeting to investigate the grievance. The meeting will include a supervisor or Principal (or his/her representatives), the aggrieved person, the ASSOCIATION representative, and any other employee of the BOARD. In the event such a meeting is held within seven (7) days following the day of the meeting, the Principal shall render his/her written answer to the grievance.
B.	Level Two - Executive Principal
1.	In the event that either the Professional Staff Member or the ASSOCIATION is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Level One, or if no decision has been rendered within seven (7) days from the date of the receipt of the grievance or the holding of the Level One meeting, whichever is applicable, either the Professional Staff Member or the ASSOCIATION may appeal the grievance to the Executive Principal or the Superintendent's designee, by filing such appeal in writing, stating the specific basis for the appeal. A grievance may be filed at Level Two when the Administrator involved at Level One does not have the authority pursuant to BOARD policy to resolve the grievance.
2.	A grievance may initially be filed at Level Two in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.09. A representative of the ASSOCIATION may file the grievance in writing, stating the specific basis for the grievance and the specific section of this CONTRACT violated with the Executive Principal or the Superintendent's designee. Such filing in writing must take place within the thirty (30) day period set forth in Section 3.04.
3.	The Executive Principal or the Superintendent's designee shall, within seven (7) days of receipt of the Level Two appeal of the grievance, conduct a meeting concerning the grievance. The meeting may include the Professional Staff Member who filed the grievance, an ASSOCIATION representative, the supervisor involved, the
12
Principal, and the Assistant Superintendent, or the Superintendent's designee. Within seven (7) days after this meeting, the Executive Principal or the Superintendent's designee will issue the decision along with the reasons, in writing, as to the disposition of the grievance. A copy will be furnished to the aggrieved person, the ASSOCIATION, the supervisor, and the Principal involved.
C.	Level Three - Superintendent
1.	In the event that either the Professional Staff Member or the ASSOCIATION is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Level Two, or if no decision has been rendered within seven (7) days from the date of the receipt of the grievance or the holding of the Level Two meeting, whichever is applicable, either the Professional Staff Member or the ASSOCIATION may appeal the grievance in writing, stating the specific basis for the appeal to the Superintendent. A grievance may be filed at Level Three when the administrator involved at Level One and Two does not have the authority pursuant to BOARD policy to resolve the grievance.
2.	The Superintendent or his/her designee shall, within seven (7) days of receipt of the Level Three appeal, conduct a meeting concerning the grievance. The meeting will include the Professional Staff Member who filed the grievance, ASSOCIATION representatives, the supervisor involved, the Principal, and the Superintendent or the Superintendent's representative. Within seven (7) days after this meeting, the Superintendent or his/her designee will issue the decision along with the reasons, in writing, as to the final disposition of the grievance. A copy will be furnished to the aggrieved person, the ASSOCIATION, the supervisor and the Principal involved.
D.	Level Four - Arbitration
1.	Only the ASSOCIATION shall have the right to appeal any grievance, as defined in Section 3.01 to arbitration. In the event it is claimed by the ADMINISTRATION that any matter filed as a grievance is not a grievance as defined in Section 3.01, such issue, as such, may be appealed to arbitration, with the arbitrator having the authority to rule on the arbitrability issue in addition to hearing any evidence or issuing any ruling on the merits of the dispute.
2.	Notification of the intent of the ASSOCIATION to appeal a grievance to arbitration must be submitted in writing to the Superintendent within seven (7) work days after the written answer was given by the Superintendent under Level Three of the grievance procedure, otherwise the matter shall not be subject to arbitration. Die ASSOCIATION will request the American Arbitration Association to provide the parties with a panel of arbitrators from which the parties can select an arbitrator in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. In the event the parties are unable to select an arbitrator from any list provided by the American Arbitration
13
Association, the ASSOCIATION shall not have the authority to independently designate an arbitrator but shall furnish the parties additional lists until an arbitrator can be selected from a list furnished by the American Arbitration Association.
3.	Neither party will be permitted to assert in any arbitration proceeding any ground or to rely on any evidence not previously fully disclosed to the other party.
4.	The BOARD and the ASSOCIATION shall equally share the fees and expenses of the arbitrator and any expenses incidental to the arbitration proceeding. Each, however, shall be responsible for the fees and expenses of its representative.
5.	Unless contrary to law, the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the BOARD, the ASSOCIATION, and any Professional Staff Member involved in the matter.
6.	The arbitrator shall not have the power to add to, subtract from, or modify this CONTRACT and shall only have the authority to interpret the provisions of this CONTRACT in light of applicable law as the same relate to the specific grievance appealed to arbitration.
3.08 Right to Representation
During the term of this CONTRACT, no Professional Staff Member will be represented by any Professional Staff Member organization other than the ASSOCIATION in any grievance or concern initiated pursuant to the provisions of this CONTRACT.
3.09 Right to File a Grievance	...........
The ASSOCIATION shall have the right to file a grievance or concern, if the subject matter involves an alleged violation of this CONTRACT, with respect to rights or privileges granted to the ASSOCIATION, its officers, or its representatives.
3.10	Miscellaneous
3.10.1	A grievance or concern may be withdrawn at any level without prejudice or record.
3.10.2	Copies of all written answers to grievances and concerns shall be sent to the
Professional Staff Member involved, the ASSOCIATION President, and the ASSOCIATION representative.
3.10.3	Nothing in this CONTRACT shall require the ASSOCIATION to pursue any grievance or concern at any level or prohibit the ASSOCIATION from exercising discretion in determining whether or not to pursue an alleged grievance or concern.
Forms for filing and appealing grievances and concerns will be jointly developed by the President of the ASSOCIATION and the Superintendent's designee. (Appendix G)
14
If the Professional Staff Member who initiates a grievance is not assigned to a particular school or if the grievance or concern does not involve the ADMINISTRATION of a particular school, whenever the term “Principal” appears in this Article, such term shall refer to the immediate supervisor of the Professional Staff Member who initiated the grievance.
3.10.5	All documents, communications and records dealing with the processing of grievance(s) shall be filed separately from the personnel files of the participant(s), and shall be confidential.
3.11	No Reprisal
Any Professional Staff Member who participates in any grievance shall not be subjected to any reprisal because of such participation.
ARTICLE FOUR
PROFESSIONAL CONFERENCES AND ASSOCIATION ACTIVITIES
4.0	1 ASSOCIATION Leave
The BOARD shall authorize the ASSOCIATION up to a maximum of one hundred (100) total days of absence without loss of pay per year (September 1st through August 31st) to Professional Staff Members elected to represent the ASSOCIATION or chosen to serve on programs or in official representative capacity at ASSOCIATION, N.E.A., O.E.A or W.O.E.A. meetings, conferences or conventions. The one hundred (100) total days shall be the maximum total days available for such programs. Such leave may not be used for meetings, conferences, or conventions of any other Professional Staff Member organizations. To be valid, a request for use of this leave must be submitted by the President of the ASSOCIATION to the Superintendent or the Superintendent's designee, in advance.
4.02 Use of Facilities
At times other than before or immediately after the work day when individual school meetings are normally held, the ASSOCIATION must request the use of facilities as described in the manual for the Use of School Buildings and Grounds adopted by the BOARD.
ARTICLE FIVE JOINT ADMINISTRATTON/ASSOCIATION MEETINGS
The Superintendent or his designee(s) shall meet at least once a month with the representatives of the ASSOCIATION.
15
ARTICLE SIX JOB DESCRIPTION
6.01 Description Requirement
There shall be a job description for each of the positions named in this CONTRACT which are to be maintained by the BOARD in the Human Resources Department. The ASSOCIATION shall be given a copy of each of these job descriptions.
6.02 Incorporation into CONTRACT
All job descriptions for any position listed in this CONTRACT shall be incorporated into this article by reference.
ARTICLE SEVEN
WORK YEAR, SCHOOL CALENDAR AND PAY DATES
7.01	Definition of Work Year
7.01.1 The work year for Professional Staff Members shall consist of200 days, as follows:
178 Student Days
2 Professional Staff Member Work/Record Days
4 Staff Development Days
1	Parent/Professional Staff Member Conference Day
15	Paid Holidays, including Labor Day, Thanksgiving and the Friday after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve Day and Christmas Day, New Year's Eve Day, New Year's Day, Presidents' Day, Martin Luther King Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, and four (4) floating holidays.
7.01.2	The work year for Professional Staff Members doing the job description of a
Counselor shall be:
A.	The calendars as in 7. 01.1.
B.	Secondary and Intermediate counselors - 5 additional days. Lead counselors -10 additional days.
7.01.3	The work year for Professional Staff Members doing the job description of
Librarian/Media Center shall be:
A.	The calendars as in 7.01.1.
B.	10 additional days (one week before, one week after, the regular school year).
7.01.4 The work year for Professional Staff Members doing the job description of Resource Teacher shall be:
A.	The calendars as in 7. 01.1.
16
B.	10 additional days (one week before, one week after, the regular school year).
7.01.5	The work year for Professional Staff Members doing the job description of
OT/PT shall be:
A.	The calendars as in 7.01.1
B.	5 additional days.
7.02 Determination of School Calendar and Pay Dates
The School Calendar and schedule of pay dates for each school year shall be developed by the BOARD prior to the April BOARD Meeting of the year prior to the school year. A copy of the School Calendar and schedule of pay dates for the school year shall be posted in each school. In the event the BOARD and the ASSOCIATION are unable to reach agreement on a schedule of pay dates following negotiations for a reasonable period of time, not less than thirty (30) calendar days, the BOARD shall have the right to adopt a temporary calendar and payroll schedule. The temporary calendar and payroll schedule will be in effect until negotiations are concluded.
7.03 Number of Pays
The BOARD agrees to a schedule of twenty-six (26) equal pays or a schedule of twenty (20) pays at the employee's option, per school year, beginning on the Friday of the first regularly scheduled pay date. For those electing twenty pays, the first and last pay may be for days worked. All other pays shall be equal pays. (This could result in 21 paychecks.) All Professional Staff Members in year round schools shall be 26 pay employees. .............
Commencing with the 2000-2001 school year newly hired employees shall be twenty-six pay employees.
Election or Change of Pay Schedule must be submitted to the Human Resources Department no later than August 1 of each year.
7.04. Altering of School Calendar
In the event the school year for students is extended to a Professional Staff Member's work year, the Professional Staff Member year shall be extended to one day beyond the students’ last day unless otherwise agreed to by the ASSOCIATION and the BOARD.
ARTICLE EIGHT SCHOOL DAY
8.01 Definition of School Day
For purposes of identifying the school day, the following definitions shall apply.
17
8.01.1 "Regular classroom Professional Staff Member" shall be defined as any Professional Staff Member except support staff who meets with the same students more than one-half (1/2) hour per day on a regularly scheduled basis.
8.01.2	"Support Staff' shall be defined as those certificated Professional Staff
Members, including Professional Staff Members who may offer services in the areas of nursing, counseling, speech and hearing, media center, and other special instructional service Professional Staff Members.
8.01.3 "Student contact time" shall be defined as that period of time during the student day in which a Professional Staff Member has assigned responsibility for a student and/or students, and may include instructional time, movement between classes, movement to and from lunch, and/or recess time.
8.01.4 “Planning time” defined as the time set aside during student contact time when Professional Staff Members do not have assigned responsibility for students.
8.01.5 "Student supervision time" shall be defined as the time during which Professional Staff Members have responsibility for students entering and leaving the building, bus duty, and playground duty.
8.01.6 "Lunch” shall be defined as the guaranteed thirty (30) minutes uninterrupted duty-free time for lunch. If a Professional Staff Member is required to supervise the lunchroom, (s)he will be provided thirty (30) minutes uninterrupted lunch. Such thirty (30) minutes will not be a part of planning or developmental time.
8.01.7 "Developmental time" for elementary Professional Staff Members shall be defined as that period of time used for: Individual or Group Conferences, ADMINISTRATION scheduled faculty meetings, audio-visual explanations, planning sessions, departmental meetings, parent-Professional Staff Member conferences, in-service training, sharing of specialized service, and such other activity as may be approved or determined by the ADMINISTRATION after consultation with the School Faculty Council.
8.01.8 "Developmental time” for middle school Professional Staff Members shall be defined as that period of time used for common team planning in the following areas: review of the intermediate magnet grades assessment, training for young adolescents, the writing process, the development of a building- intermediate magnet school philosophy, the development of an intermediate magnet school discipline plan, the advisor/advisee concept, a parent involvement plan, an in-service on clustering, the instructional improvement plan, and other relevant in-services as determined by the ADMINISTRATION.
8.02	Professional Staff Member’s Day
8.02.1 Pre-School
A.	Professional Staff Members teaching pre-school will be provided at least twelve (12) hours of planning time per month.
B.	ECE/Chapter 1 Professional Staff Members’ planning time will be jointly scheduled by the ECE staff and the Consultant.
18
C.	Special Education pre-school Professional Staff Members’ planning time will be jointly scheduled by the staff and their supervisor.
8.02.2 Elementary (Grades K-6)
The normal regular classroom day for Professional Staff Members teaching in elementary grades (Grades K through 6) shall consist of no more than 435 continuous minutes scheduled as follows:	'
345 minutes - Student contact time
30 minutes - Lunch
15 minutes - Before or after student day in student supervision time
45 minutes - Developmental time
Professional Staff Members teaching grades 1,2,3,4,5 and 6 Art, Music and Physical Education will be provided a total of 225 minutes planning time each full week. Planning time for Professional Staff Members teaching grades K-6 will be provided in time blocks of no less than thirty (30) consecutive minutes.
If any Professional Staff Member teaching grades 1,2,3,4,5 or 6 believes that scheduling can occur more efficiently, the Principal and Professional Staff Member shall meet to review the schedule. The Professional Staff Member can make recommendations for schedule changes.
8.02.3 Middle School (Grades 7-8)
The normal regular classroom day for Professional Staff Members teaching in the middle school (Grades 7-8) shall consist of no more than 435 continuous minutes scheduled during a seven (7) period day as follows:
360 minutes - Student contact time
30 minutes - Lunch
15 minutes - Before or after student day in student supervision time
30 minutes - Developmental time (before or after school)
Professional Staff Members teaching in middle schools will teach five periods, have one staff development period, and one individual planning period each day.
8.02.4 High School (Grades 9-12)
The normal regular classroom day for Professional Staff Members in the high school shall consist of no more than 435 continuous minutes scheduled as follows:
375 minutes - Student contact time
30 minutes - Lunch
15 minutes - Before student day in supervision of students
15 minutes - After student day in supervision of students
19
Professional Staff Members teaching in high school will not be obligated for student contact beyond the time contained in this Article.
Professional Staff Members teaching in high schools will be provided five (5) planning periods per week.
8.03 Temporary Adjustment
Temporary adjustments to the "normal" conditions set forth in Section 8.01 may be made by the ADMINISTRATION only on an emergency basis and after consultation with the School Faculty Council in the school building affected by the change.
8.04 Support Staff Day
The support staff day will be the same as the regular classroom Professional Staff Member day in the building in which, they are assigned. The arrangement of this time will be established by the Building Principal, after consultation with the support staff, in such a manner so as to accommodate the special needs of the support staff role.
8.05	Traveling Staff - Number of Building Assignments
Every reasonable effort will be made so that traveling Professional Staff Members will be assigned to a maximum number of two (2) buildings. Art, Music and Physical Education Professional Staff Members who travel shall be assigned to a specific group of students on a permanent basis.
8.06 Securing of Reserve Teachers
8.06.1	The ADMINISTRATION will make a reasonable effort to provide a reserve
teacher whenever a regular classroom Professional Staff Member is absent. It is recognized, however, that in all cases of absence by Professional Staff Members, reserve teachers may not be able to be secured. The determination by the ADMINISTRATION that a reserve teacher cannot be secured shall be final.
8.06.2 When a reserve teacher cannot be secured, a Professional Staff Member may be requested by the Building Principal to waive his/her planning period to assume the responsibilities of teaching a class in lieu of a reserve teacher. A non-teaching Professional Staff Member may also be requested by the Building Principal to waive his/her planning period to assume the responsibilities of teaching a class in lieu of a reserve teacher when a reserve teacher is not present.
8.06.3 The Principal will keep a record of the times when each Professional Staff Member has accepted such teaching responsibilities. Such assignments will be rotated among those available Professional Staff Members in the school for the class period involved; however, no Professional Staff Member will be requested to waive planning time/periods an unreasonable number of times, as determined by the Building Principal. Professional Staff Members who are required by their Building Principal to waive their planning time/period to assume the responsibilities of teaching a class in lieu of a reserve teacher shall
20
be compensated for performing such additional teaching responsibilities at the hourly reserve teaching rate established by the BOARD.
8.06.4 Professional Staff Members who provide educational support services will not have their regular programs or classes canceled for the purpose of reserve teaching. Examples of such Professional Staff Members include Special Assistance Reading and Math, Speech Pathologist, Individual and Small Grpup Instructor, Library/Media Center Personnel, etc.
8.06.5	If a reserve teacher is not available, and a class is divided among Professional
Staff Members, those Professional Staff Members shall equally share the compensation which would have been paid to a reserve teacher.
8.07 Required After Hours Functions
The Building Principal at each school may schedule up to two (2) parent Professional Staff Member public functions each school year. All Professional Staff Members assigned to the school may be required by the Building Principal to be in attendance during such functions and to participate in programs conducted during such functions. Professional Staff Members may be excused from participating in a required attendance function for good cause as approved by the Building Principal. The School Faculty Council shall be involved in the planning for such functions. Participation in such functions may include, but shall not be limited to, meeting with parents and guardians of students and conducting programs. After school hours functions which may require total staff participation in excess of two (2) during any school year may be held with the concurrence of the School Faculty Council. The School Faculty Council will work with the Principal to provide for both an equitable distribution of such functions among the Professional Staff Members assigned to the building and Professional Staff Member presence at school functions or school activities.
8.08 Expansion Committee
Upon the recommendation of the Superintendent, there will be a committee established to research the length of the school year and the teacher work day. The committee can recommend a program, which then will be subject to negotiations at the expiration of this contract. There shall be an equal number of Professional Staff Members and administrators.
ARTICLE NINE SCHOOL PROCEDURES
9.01 Handbooks
Each Principal will provide each Professional Staff Member assigned to the building with that school's Handbook, written rules, regulations and/or procedures at the beginning of the school year.
21
9.02 Changing School Procedures
All changes in building policies and procedures shall be in accordance with Section 10.04.
9.03 Weekly Building Calendar
With the exception of unforeseen activities or unscheduled school events, each Principal will provide each Professional Staff Member with a hard-copy written weekly bulletin detailing school activities for the following week no later than Friday prior to said week.
ARTICLE TEN SCHOOL FACULTY COUNCIL
10.01 Membership of Faculty Council
Within each school building there shall be a School Faculty Council consisting of Professional Staff Members assigned to such school building. Such Council shall have among its members the ASSOCIATION building representative(s). The Building Principal or his/her designee shall be a member of the Council. The Faculty Council will decide the size, additional membership, and Chairperson of the Council no later than 15 days after the commencement of the school year. The first Council meeting must be held within the first 30 days of the school year. Business can only be conducted if bargaining unit and administrative representation is present.
10.02 Purpose of Faculty Council
The purpose of the council is to collaboratively resolve building issues and to provide a vehicle for communication between the Professional Staff Member and the administrator of the school concerning matters unique to the school which have not been made the subject of a grievance. All changes to building policies and procedures in any school building will be reviewed, discussed, and consensus reached with the school Faculty Council before being established by the building principal.
10.03 Agenda and Meeting of Faculty Council
The Council will meet monthly and upon the call of either the building principal or chairperson or a majority of the Professional Staff Members who are members of the Faculty Council. All Professional Staff Members will have the opportunity to place items on the agenda. The monthly agenda will always address the issue of a safe working environment. The agenda will be distributed to the staff at least 24 hours before any regular meeting. Minutes of all meetings will be distributed to Professional Staff Members, ASSOCIATION, and Human Resources following each meeting.
An ASSOCIATION and Human Resources representative will meet monthly to review minutes from all buildings and make recommendations, as necessary, to the Faculty Council chair and be shared with all council members.
22
10.04 Faculty Council Responsibilities
10.04.1 Faculty Council shall serve as the building safety committee and responsibilities will include but not be limited to the following:
A.	Serve as the building safety committee
1.	Conduct an Annual Building Safety Audit within the first semester.
2.	Review safety audit findings and make recommendations for improvement.
3.	The audit and recommendations for improvement will be submitted to the ASSOCIATION and Human Resources.
4.	The Faculty Council will select a teacher and administrator representative from the building committee to participate in training as provided by the Joint District Safety Committee.
B.	In addition the Faculty Council will address such items as:
-	Building procedures and practices (See Article 9, School Procedures)
-	Building maintenance and cleanliness
-	Student discipline and building security matters (See Article 26)
-	Instructional programs
-	Equitable participation by Professional Staff Member assigned to a building in school/building functions, activities and events (See Article 8)
-	Planning the school open house
-	Fund raising events and/or activities (see Article 16, Section 16.03)
-	Other similar matters and events
10.05 Faculty Council Representatives	.
The goal of the Faculty Council shall be to encourage collaborative communication to resolve all building issues. Job security, evaluations and advancements will not be adversely affected due to active Faculty Council participation.
ARTICLE ELEVEN PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES FUND
11.01 Amount and Purpose of Professional Activities Fund
The School Faculty Council of each individual school building will be provided by the BOARD with a Professional Activities Fund of $20.00 per full-time Professional Staff Member assigned to the building based on the full-time professional staff equivalency from the State Report for the current school year by the end of the first semester. This Professional Activities Fund will be used at the discretion of the School Faculty Council after consultation with the Building Principal to provide for items necessary for
23
professional staff needs, such as teaching materials and equipment, professional books, professional magazines, faculty room furniture, and professional growth and travel. This Fund may not be used to defray the cost of any telephone installation or telephone service charges.
11.02 Account Records
An accurate accounting of all funds allocated to this Fund will be maintained by each Building Principal under the supervision and direction of the Treasurer of the BOARD. Such account records will be available for inspection by the Faculty Council.
ARTICLE TWELVE CLASS SIZE
12.01 Primary School (K-3)
The class size in each homeroom in the primary division of an elementary school should be no greater than the following number of students per one (1) regular classroom Professional Staff Member
Grades K & 1 - 25 students	Grades 2 & 3 - 27 students
The class size in art, music and physical education classes should be no greater than the following number of students per one (1) art and/or music or physical education Professional Staff Member:
Grades K & 1 - 25 students	Grades 2 & 3 - 27 students
12.02 Elementary School (4-6)
The class size in each homeroom in the intermediate division of an elementary school should be no greater than the following number of students per one (1) regular classroom Professional Staff Member:
Grades 4 through 6 - 29 students
The class size in art, music and physical education classes should be no greater than the following number of students per one (1) art and/or music or physical education Professional Staff Member:
Grades 4 through 6 - 29 students
12.03 Middle School (7-8)
The pupil load will not exceed 160 pupils per day for middle school Professional Staff Members. The class size for each instructional period in the middle school shall be no greater than thirty-two (32) students.
24
12.04 High School (9-12)
The pupil load will not exceed 170 pupils per day for high school Professional Staff Members. The class size for each instructional period in the high school shall be no greater than thirty-five (35) students. Certain activity classes such as typewriting, physical education and music, and all other programs involving group or unit participation or involving laboratory work are excluded from this provision.
12.05 Overload Payment
In the event circumstances deem it necessary to exceed the maximum class size limit, as outlined in Sections 12.01,12.02,12.03 and 12.04, written reasons will be given to the Professional Staff Member with copies sent to the ASSOCIATION and the Human Resources Department, and the following provisions shall apply:
12.05.1 An overload payment of $300 per student per year in grades K-6 is calculated for each student over the maximum limit and shall be payable at the end of each semester. If a Professional Staff Member has the extra student(s) less than a full day and/or less than a full school year, the rate per student is pro-rated.
12.05.2 An overload payment of $60 per student per period per year in grades 7-12 is calculated for each student seen at least one (1) period per day over the class size limit and shall be payable at the end of each semester. If a Professional Staff Member has the extra student(s) less than five (5) periods per week and/or less than a full school year, the rate per student is pro-rated.
12.05.3	The maximum student overload in any class shall be four (4) students
12.06 Special Classes
12.06.1 The class size in special subjects in high schools, such as, laboratory and industrial arts courses will be determined by the Building Principal. The class size for vocational classes shall not exceed state standards where applicable.
12.06.2 In each elementary school, the pupil load for chorus and band shall be determined by the Building Principal after consultation with the chorus and/or band director.
12.07 Special Education Classes
Classes for students who have been identified as needing special education services will be limited to the maximum number allowed under applicable state standards. In accordance with state and federal guidelines, a continuum of service options will be provided to eligible students. Any Professional Staff Member who teaches the special education student shall be involved in the IEP process.
12.08 Duties of Paraprofessionals During Special Activity Class
The paraprofessional assigned to the homeroom will accompany the homeroom class to a special activity class. By mutual contract of the Professional Staff Members involved, the aide may stay with the homeroom Professional Staff Member.
25
12.09 Date for Determination of Class Size
Determination of class size for purposes of this article will be made no later than thirty (30) school days from the date of the official opening day for students.
12.10 Class Size of a Combined Grade Level Class
Except in IGE Magnet Schools, elementary Professional Staff Members (grades 1-6) assigned a combination class (two grade levels) will have a class size less than other classes of comparable grade levels within that building. Wherever possible, Building Principals will provide additional planning time to Professional Staff Members with combination classes.
ARTICLE THIRTEEN FACULTY MEETINGS
13.01 Purpose of Faculty Meetings
Tuesdays will be reserved for faculty meetings. Faculty meetings are meetings which involve all Professional Staff Members assigned to a building for such purposes as: school business, Professional Staff Member-pupil relationship, assessment and/or any other school-wide purpose identified by the Principal or the Superintendent, or by the Principal in cooperation with the School Faculty Council. Professional Staff Members may not be excused from faculty meetings on a regular basis because of extra-duty commitments.
13.02 Extended Faculty Meetings
Faculty meetings may be scheduled during developmental time. The Principal may also schedule one regular faculty meeting per month which extends beyond the Professional Staff Member day. Faculty meetings which extend beyond the Professional Staff Member day may be scheduled by the Principal with consensus of the Faculty Council and may extend sixty (60) minutes beyond the Professional Staff Member day. Meetings in excess of this one (1) regular meeting require the consensus of the School Faculty Council.
13.03 Posting of Agenda for Faculty Meeting
The agenda for regular monthly faculty meetings should be posted twenty-four (24) hours prior to the meeting. The agenda for a special faculty meeting should be posted as soon as possible prior to the meeting.
26
ARTICLE FOURTEEN ACADEMIC FREEDOM
14.01 Definition of Academic Freedom
A Professional Staff Member seeks to educate people in the educational skills and in. democratic traditions, to foster a recognition of individual freedom and social responsibility, to inspire meaningful awareness of, and respect for, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, and to instill appreciation of the values of individual personality. It is recognized that these educational skills and democratic values can best be transmitted in an atmosphere which is free from censorship and artificial restraints upon free inquiry and learning, and in which academic freedom for Professional Staff Member and student is encouraged.
14.02 Resolution of Academic Freedom
It is recognized that the Principal in each school is responsible for all teaching conducted in the school and, therefore, has die responsibility to supervise each Professional Staff Member with respect to all teaching activity conducted within the building. Should differences exist with respect to the subject of academic freedom, the Professional Staff Member and his/her ASSOCIATION representative shall review the matter with the Superintendent or his/her designee.
14.03 Judgment involved in Academic Freedom
In the spirit of academic freedom, Professional Staff Members will create a classroom atmosphere which invites in-depth study of the critical issues of the day. The classroom environment shall be conducive to investigation, interpretation, analysis and evaluation of data on all sides of the critical issue(s) under study. The Professional Staff Member is responsible for exercising reasonable and prudent judgment in selecting for discussion those issues (s)he deems relevant to the maturity and understanding of the students involved.
14.04 Freedom of Individual Expression
Freedom of individual conscience, association and expression will be encouraged, and fairness of procedures will be observed.
ARTICLE FIFTEEN
TEACHING ENVIRONMENT, SUPPLIES AND FACILITIES
15.01 Environment .
15.01.1	Professional Staff Members will be provided clean, well-lighted, safe,
healthfiil, and adequately ventilated conditions in all places of employment, as determined by the ADMINISTRATION.
27
15.01.2 Adequate maintenance of all facilities and equipment shall be provided, including but not limited to plumbing, lighting, floors, doors, fountains, etc., as determined by the ADMINISTRATION.
Standards set forth above will be maintained. If standards are not met, issue will be discussed with Building Principal and Faculty Council. An improvement plan will be developed with the assistance of the Assistant Superintendent and head of Building Maintenance. If after 30 days the improvement plan has not caused a change in conditions, a grievance may be filed in compliance with Article Three of this CONTRACT.
15.01.3	All daily routine announcements over the school public address system should
be made during the homeroom period or designated announcement period. Use of the school public address system at other times is recognized as being potentially disruptive of the classroom learning situation. Therefore, such use is the responsibility of the Building Principal. Use of the school public address system at times other than the homeroom, period or designated announcement period shall not be approved by the Building Principal indiscriminately.
15.01.4 Each classroom shall have a usable desk and chair, chalkboard and bulletin board space to complement the Professional Staff Member's instruction. Bulletin boards shall be located in accessible positions.
15.02 Professional Staff Members Use of Equipment
A duplicating machine and/or copy machine, computer, printer, and paper will be made available in each school for the use of Professional Staff Members in preparing instructional materials.
Available computer, printers and other office machines and equipment may be used by Professional Staff Members for preparation of instructional materials, subject to the prior approval of the Building Principal or his/her designee.
15.03 Phone Facilities
Existing school phone facilities shall be made available to Professional Staff Members. A Professional Staff Member may not make any toll or long distance calls from any school phone without the prior approval of the Building Principal.
15.04 Supplies
15.04.1 A grade and lesson plan book will be provided by the BOARD for each Professional Staff Member at the commencement of each school year. Each Professional Staff Member will be required to maintain a lesson plan book and grade book which must be available for inspection, upon request, by the Building Principal. Lesson plan books must also be available for use by a reserve teacher whenever the Professional Staff Member is absent.
15.04.2 Audio-visual equipment, supplies and other materials necessary to teach assigned courses will be provided. Approved textbooks and Professional Staff Member editions of all approved textbooks (when available for purchase)for the Staff Member assigned to teach from die approved textbook, will be
28
provided as delineated in the Dayton Public Schools and Department of Instruction Adopted Textbooks and Materials Elementary and Secondary Handbook and Adopted Textbooks and Workbooks, Grades K-12.
15.05 Facility Council
The Superintendent will, prior to developing plans for submission to the BOARD for any new buildings or for any major renovation of existing buildings, seek input from several Professional Staff Members, representative of those instructional or special areas found in the proposed building, regarding the plans for such building or changes. The Professional Staff Members selected will be selected by the Superintendent; however, the ASSOCIATION will be given the opportunity to suggest the names of individuals to the Superintendent.
15.06 Dress Code
Professional Staff Members are expected to dress in appropriate attire in the workplace.
ARTICLE SIXTEEN NON-INSTRUCTIONAL DUTIES
16.01 Rotation of Non-Instructional Duties
The Faculty Council will work in conjunction with the building administrator to determine the responsibilities of a non- instructional nature that may be rotated among Professional Staff Members on an equitable basis. In order to equitably distribute such duties schedules may be altered and reassigned during the course of the school year. Questions or concerns regarding rotation equity will be resolved by Faculty Council.
16.02 Timeline for Submission of Reports
Except in the case of an emergency that could not be anticipated in advance, Professional Staff Members will be given a reasonable amount of time, not less than three (3) work days, to furnish miscellaneous reports which the Professional Staff Members are required to submit.
16.03 Fundraising Constraints and Accountability
Before any fund raising event or other activity that involves the collection of money is conducted in a school building which will involve the Professional Staff Members assigned to the building in any way, the School Faculty Council will be involved in the decision whether to conduct the event and, if so, in determining the extent of involvement of Professional Staff Members in the fund raising activity. The Chairperson of the School Faculty Council will be permitted to review the accounting for all fund raising events or activities with the Building Principal and/or the school Treasurer or Business Manager. In addition the Building Principal will issue quarterly reports to the faculty regarding all funds collected and the expenditure of such funds.
29
ARTICLE SEVENTEEN COOPERATING PROFESSIONAL MEMBER
17.01 Philosophy of a Cooperating Professional Staff Member
The BOARD recognizes the responsibilities of Professional Staff Members to assist student Professional Staff Members and/or student observers in developing into competent professionals. The BOARD also recognizes the fact that there is a certain degree of both personal enrichment and self development of the cooperating Professional Staff Members in their work as they assist and guide the professional growth of the student Professional Staff Member. The BOARD further considers the supervision of student Professional Staff Members and/or student observers to be a responsibility in addition to the Professional Staff Members’ regular teaching duties. Professional Staff Members who consent to the assignment of a student Professional Staff Member and/or student observer agree to accept such responsibilities. The BOARD also recognizes that Professional Staff Member training institutions have a responsibility for compensation and remuneration to those Professional Staff Members who are supervising student Professional Staff Members and/or student observers. This remuneration may come through college credit, free course offerings, or through cash payment, as established by the university placing the student Professional Staff Member with the system.
17.02 Provision of Materials for Student Teacher
The BOARD will provide student teachers and/or student observers with copies of the texts, guides, and building policies to assist them during their student teaching assignments.
17.03 Required Consent to be a Cooperating Professional Staff Member
No Professional Staff Member will be assigned a student teacher and/or student observer without the Professional Staff Member's consent.
17.04 Termination of Assignment as a Cooperating Professional Staff Member
In the event the Professional Staff Member feels the necessity to terminate the assignment, the Professional Staff Member will contact the Building Principal who, in turn, will arrange for a conference between the Building Principal, the cooperating Professional Staff Member, the student Professional Staff Member and/or student observer, and his/her immediate supervisor/advisor from the placing university.
ARTICLE EIGHTEEN
PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS NEW TO THE SYSTEM
18.01 New Professional Staff Member Orientation
18.01.1 A new Professional Staff Member will receive an orientation to the Dayton City Schools immediately preceding the opening of the school year. As part of the new Professional Staff Member orientation program, the Professional Staff
30
Member will have a conference with the Building Principal, during which the building policies and procedures of the school and the School Handbook will be reviewed.
18.01.2 Time for an ASSOCIATION presentation will also be incorporated into the program schedule.
18.01.3 It is the professional responsibility of each Professional Staff Member to -provide special consideration to new Professional Staff Members with regard to assignments, responsibilities, assistance, and guidance.
18.02 Entry Year Program
18.02.1 In accordance with state standards, an entry year program will be implemented for all Professional Staff Members in the first year of employment under a new classroom teaching certificate/license. The ADMINISTRATION and the representatives appointed by the ASSOCIATION, on an annual basis, shall jointly review the entry year program.
18.02.2 Pay for mentors shall be listed as a supplemental at each level. Mentor pay is 2% for every two (2) PSM. In the 2003-04 school year, a mentor shall be paid 2% for each additional set of PSM’s.
18.02.3	“Article 26 - Evaluations” shall be required for all entry year Professional
Staff Members. The outcome of the evaluation shall be separate from PRAXIS and could lead to non-renewal.
18.02.4 All Professional Staff Members new to the profession shall be required to be a part of the entry year program and shall be paid at the Staff Development rate of pay.
ARTICLE NINETEEN CONVERSION COMMUNITY SCHOOL
19.01 Vacancies in Conversion Community Schools
All teaching positions will be filled from current professional staff employed by the Board. If or when the teachers and administrators at the Conversion Community School deem that a sufficient number of Dayton teachers have not applied to the Conversion Community School, then the Conversion Community School can employ new teachers from outside the school district.
19.02 Filling of Vacancies in Conversion Community School
As a result of negotiations between the Administration, Conversion Community School and DEA, the provisions of Section 25.02 shall not apply to positions or vacancies in the Conversion Community School Accelerated Learning Community School. Instead, the initial Professional Staff Members to be employed and placed in positions at the Conversion Community School will be selected by Conversion Community School based on criteria established by Conversion Community School. Thereafter, employment and selection decisions will be made based on criteria established jointly by Conversion
31
Community School and the School Faculty Council. Teachers and administrators will be issued one-year contracts.
19.03 Rights of Conversion Community School Teachers
Any Professional Staff Member employed by Conversion Community School shall retain all rights under the Master Contract, except as set forth in #2 above, if he or she is eliminated from a position in the Conversion Community School for any reason.
19.04 Displacement for Conversion Community School
Any Professional Staff Member who is currently assigned to affected grade level(s)/area(s) in the building which is converted to a Conversion Community School shall be given priority transfer to any vacant position. This means positions currently occupied by long-term subs and other open positions PRIOR to reassignments within buildings. This includes:
A)	All affected Professional Staff Members will meet in a determined location. There will be an accurate seniority list provided at least 15 days ahead of time to all affected staff. This 15 days will allow for any disputes on the seniority list to be handled.
B)	The most senior Professional Staff Member will be able to select the vacant position of their choice.
C)	The next most senior Professional Staff Member will then choose. This process will go on until all Professional Staff Members have chosen a position.
This process shall be completed by May 15.
19.05 Waiver of Extended Contract
Any Professional Staff Member who is employed by Conversion Community School waives their right under Section 54.02. By accepting employment, the Professional Staff Member agrees to work an extended contractual year at per diem.
ARTICLE TWENTY
YEAR-ROUND SCHOOL
20.01 Establishing Year-Round
The process/procedures for establishing and maintaining year-round schools will be pursuant to the agreement between the parties.
20.02 Intersession
20.02.1	Professional Staff Members who teach in the year-round program may be
reserve teachers during the year-round intercession periods. They will be
32
assigned to the reserve teacher rotation list. The salary shall be the same amount as a reserve teacher.
20.02.2 Class size limitation during intersessions shall conform to those in the regular summer school program. The rate of pay for intersessions shall not exceed the summer school rate in effect. There shall be no paid sick leave granted during any intersession period.
20.02.3 Reserve teachers will not be used during the intersession classes.
ARTICLE TWENTY-ONE
INDIVIDUALIZED EDUCATIONAL PLANS (lEPs) AND THREE-YEAR RE-EVALUATIONS (RE-EVALS) FOR SPECIAL EDUCATION STUDENTS
21.01 Release Time for lEPs
Professional Staff Member responsible for writing student lEPs will receive release days in the following manner:
6	or less lEPs - one day
7	or more lEPs - maximum of two days
21.02 Assignment of Students during lEPs
Other Professional Staff Members will not be assigned additional students due to the implementation of this Article.
21.03 Release time for Three-year Re-Evaluations
Professional Staff Members responsible for writing student three-year re-evaluations will receive one day of release time for six or more reevaluations.
A committee will be appointed that will research the number of re-evals done by teachers in the district and suggest a reevaluation number to be incorporated by Memorandum of Agreement and implement at the beginning of the second semester of the 2000-2004 school year.
21.04 Assignment of Students during Three-year Re-Evaluation.
Other Professional Staff Members will not be assigned additional students due to the implementation of this Article.
33
ARTICLE TWENTY-TWO SENIORITY
22.01 Definition of Seniority
Seniority will mean the number of continuous years of service commencing with the latest date of employment, except as set forth herein. Service rendered beyond the normal work year of the Professional Staff Member will not be counted toward seniority.
22.02 Accumulation of Seniority
A Professional Staff Member who completes at least 120 days of teaching under contract during a school year shall be credited with a year of seniority. A Professional Staff Member on reduction in force (Section 25.07) who works as a reserve teacher and completes at least 120 days of teaching as a reserve teacher during one school year shall be credited with a year of seniority. A Professional Staff Member who works less than full time shall be credited with one (1) year of seniority for each school year in which such Professional Staff Member works 870 or more hours. Less than 870 hours shall be prorated.
22.03 Breaking of Seniority
A Professional Staff Member on approved leave of absence will not be considered to have broken seniority during the time they were not on active working status. A layoff and time spent on disability retirement shall not be a break in seniority. An employee's seniority shall be broken upon resignation, permanent retirement or discharge.
22.04 Breaking the Seniority Ties
In the event that two or more employees in the same area of certification share the same seniority date of hire, the ties shall be broken by using the last four (4) numbers of the Professional Staff Member's Social Security number. The lower Social Security number shall mean that Professional Staff Member has the higher seniority.
22.05 Seniority while on Leave
When a Professional Staff Member is on any approved leave, their seniority shall not be broken. They shall accrue seniority on leaves if it so states in the leave section.
ARTICLE TWENTY-THREE PERSONNEL RECORDS
23.01 Establishment of a Personnel File
The State Department of Education requests that certain personnel records be kept up-to-date and on file for reference at all times. All personnel records will be filed in the office designated by the Superintendent on a current basis. These personnel records may include:
34
-	Application for employment, including references
-	Copy of latest contract, properly signed
-	Copy of latest salary notice
-	Health certificate card
-	Health history card
-	Ohio teaching certificate
-	Personal record card
-	Personal and professional data form
-	Transcript of college credits showing the official record of the degree granted, original or certified copy
-	Record of military service
-	Record of tuberculosis test or X-ray
-	Other documentation which has been properly placed in the file
23.02 Inclusion of Materials into the File
Each Professional Staff Member's official personnel file shall be maintained in the Personnel Services Department. A Professional Staff Member shall be notified of the intent of the ADMINISTRATION to place any material in his/her personnel file and shall be provided the opportunity to read any such material prior to its being placed in such personnel file. Materials relating to a specific incident or occurrence must be placed in the personnel file within thirty (30) calendar days of the time of the ADMINISTRATION'S awareness of the incident or occurrence. The Professional Staff Member shall acknowledge that (s)he has read the material by affixing his/her signature to the copy to be filed. If the Professional Staff Member fails or refuses to sign, such failure or refusal shall be noted on the material and it may be filed. Signature of a Professional Staff Member shall not indicate agreement with the content of the material, but indicates only that material has been inspected by the Professional Staff Member. The Professional Staff Member shall also have the opportunity to reply to such critical material in a written statement to be entered in the personnel file. Such reply must be presented to the Building Principal, who shall affix his/her signature thereto, acknowledging that the Building Principal has read the reply. Such signature shall not indicate agreement by the Principal with the content of the reply.
23.03 Anonymous Material
Anonymous letters or materials shall not be placed in a Professional Staff Member's file, nor shall they be made a matter of record.
35
23.04 Copies of Material in Personnel File
A Professional Staff Member shall be entitled to a copy, at the Professional Staff Member's expense, of any material in his/her personnel file. A Professional Staff Member may place letters of merit and commendation in his/her personnel file.
23.05 Review of Personnel File
A Professional Staff Member may periodically review his/her personnel file. Such review shall take place within a reasonable period of time after the request. A third party selected by the Professional Staff Member at the option of the Professional Staff Member may be present during such review. A representative of the ADMINISTRATION, at the option of the ADMINISTRATION, may also be present during such review.
23.06 Confidentiality of Files
At no time nor under any circumstances will the confidential files of any Professional Staff Member be opened to the public.
23.07 Purging of the Files
Material once placed in a Professional Staff Member's personnel file may be removed from such file by the mutual agreement of the Professional Staff Member and the Superintendent or his/her designee. All negative material will be removed from the file after 36 months, at the request of the Professional Staff Member if there has been no other record of occurrence in the file. Such material will also be removed if either a grievance contending that it was placed in the file without following the procedures of Section 23.02 is sustained or a grievance contending that it is false is sustained.
ARTICLE TWENTY-FOUR PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER CONTRACT
24.01 Issuance of Employment CONTRACT
The Professional Staff Member CONTRACT and/or salary notice will be issued to the Professional Staff Member no later than May 15th.
24.02 Information Required on CONTRACT
The CONTRACT issued each Professional Staff Member will, among other items, contain the following:
-	Name of Professional Staff Member
-	Type of contract (continuing or limited)
-	Employee identification number
-	Base salary (annual and bi-weekly for number of pay periods)
36
-	Salary classification
-	Contract notations
-	School year
24.03 Information Required on Salary Notice	,
The annual notice of salary issued each Professional Staff Member on a continuing contract will, among other things, contain the following:.
-	Name of Professional Staff Member
-	Employee identification number
-	Base salary (annual and bi-weekly for number of pay periods)
-	Salary classification
-	School year
24.0	4 Information on Supplemental Contract
Except in the case of an emergency which requires immediate action by the Superintendent to fill a supplemental duty position, all supplemental contracts will be issued prior to the date the Professional Staff Members will be expected to begin their supplemental duties. Supplemental contracts issued to Professional Staff Members will contain the following items:
-	Name of Professional Staff Member
-	Employee identification number
-	Details concerning extra duty assignment covered by such contract — school specific assignment, and period of assignment
-	Compensation and basis for compensation
-	School year
ARTICLE TWENTY-FIVE EMPLOYMENT, ASSIGNMENTS, REASSIGNMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
25.0	1 Limitation of Assignment
The ASSOCIATION recognizes the statutory power of the BOARD to employ and the Superintendent to assign Professional Staff Members. The ASSOCIATION also recognizes the implications of desegregation and the values of an integrated school system; therefore, the ASSOCIATION encourages compliance with and supports
37
■
affirmative action in this regard. The ADMINISTRATION'S effectiveness is directly related to its ability to implement the principle of "best fit." To the degree that the ADMINISTRATION is able to match applicants to positions requiring the abilities and characteristics possessed by these applicants, only then will the ADMINISTRATION, and thus the schools, be functioning most effectively.
25.02 Transfer-General Provisions	■
25.02.1 No new Professional Staff Member will be employed and placed in a specific position assignment until all transfer requests have been reviewed and considered by the Personnel Services Department.
25.02.2 The transfer procedures set forth in this article shall apply to vacancies created by terminations, death or disability, leaves, retirements or new positions. The parties recognize that from time to time, the BOARD may institute magnet programs or implement completely new program initiatives. The criteria for selection of Professional Staff Members to participate in such programs or initiatives will be subject to negotiations between the parties.
25.03 Voluntary Professional Staff Member Transfer
,	25.03.1 Professional Staff Members who, for various reasons, wish to transfer to
another building will be eligible to request and be considered for such a move after completing and date signing the necessary forms no later than February 15th. The Professional Staff Member applying for transfer will receive a written acknowledgment of receipt of the request from the Human Resources Department.
A Professional Staff Member requesting a transfer to another building will be limited to a maximum number of two (2) choices. A Professional Staff Member will be notified in writing of his/her new assignment by Human Resources.
25.03.2 The variables to be weighed in consideration of transfer requests include, but are not limited to specific professional competencies, experience, co-curricular preferences, racial balance, and seniority. Of this, seniority will be the most important consideration, except where other variable(s) require greater consideration. If the most senior applicant does not receive the transfer, he or she will be given the reasons in writing. Any Professional Staff Member on a plan of improvement according to Article Forty-Five is not eligible for a voluntary transfer as described in this section.
25.03.3 Requests for transfer applications will be kept until the end of the first semester of the following school year after the March 1 submission. A Professional Staff Member may revoke the request for transfer at any time prior to Human Resources notifying the Professional Staff Member of his/her new assignment.
25.03.4 If an open position occurs during the first semester of a school year, it will be filled with a Professional Staff Member on a regular teaching contract. If, however, an open position occurs during the second semester of a school year, the ADMINISTRATION may fill that position with a long term reserve teacher.
38
25.03.5 A Professional Staff Member will not be permitted a voluntary transfer more than once every two (2) years unless approved by the Superintendent.
25.04 Involuntary Transfer (Principal and Administration Initiated)
25.04.1 Involuntary Transfer Due to Cause
A.	If a transfer of a Professional Staff Member due to cause is to be -made during the course of the school year (except in the case of an emergency which requires immediate action, as determined by the ADMINISTRATION), the concerned Professional Staff Member will be notified in writing thirty (30) days prior to the anticipated date of transfer. The Principal/ Administration will identify the problem and discuss such problem with the Professional Staff Member involved.
B.	At such a conference between the Professional Staff Member and the Principal/Administration, suggestions and recommendations for constructive steps to resolve the problem will be put into writing.
C.	Within four (4) weeks after problem identification, a second conference between the Professional Staff Member and the Principal/ Administration will be held for purposes of reappraising the situation. Additional conferences may be held, if necessary.	.
D.	If progress towards resolving the problem is unsatisfactory and it is deemed by the Principal/Administration to transfer the Professional Staff Member, the Professional Staff Member may request the reason for the transfer in writing.
25.04.2 Displacement Due to Pupil Enrollment/Program Reduction and/or Staff Realignment
A.	The ADMINISTRATION may displace Professional Staff Members due to pupil enrollment, program reduction, and/or staff realignment.
In determining which individual Professional Staff Member is to be displaced, the ADMINISTRATION shall consider the following: (a) racial balance, (b) system seniority, (c) areas of certification. Department or division seniority may also be considered.
B.	Before a Professional Staff Member is involuntarily transferred under this section, the ADMINISTRATION will consider voluntary transfer requests from the same building.
C.	When a Professional Staff Member is to be displaced under this section (s)he shall have the right to displace the least senior Professional Staff Member in the program in which (s)he is being displaced, or if the program has been eliminated from the system (s)he shall have the right to displace the least senior Professional Staff Member in any other area for which (s)he holds certification.
D.	Professional Staff Members displaced under this section shall have the right to return to their original school/program. A vacancy must exist in the summer. The right to return only exists in the summers
39
before and after the first school year of displacement. If more than one Professional Staff Member is displaced from one building, the right to return is granted in the reverse order of their transfer out. The right to return must be consistent with the racial balancing of staff and proper certification.
E.	A Professional Staff Member to be displaced under this section will be given at least three (3) work days’ notice before the transfer is to become effective.
F.	All Professional Staff Members who have been displaced and who are unable to enact paragraph C of this Subsection shall be placed in vacant positions by system seniority before any voluntary transfers are initiated.
G.	Professional Staff Members returning to a faculty after being a Professional Staff Member on special assignment shall be placed on the displaced list, by their seniority, and shall have all rights of a displaced Professional Staff Member.
25.05 Change in Assignment
25.05.1 Professional Staff Members requesting a change of grade level or teaching subject area assignment, in accordance with their certification, shall submit a request in writing to their Building Principal. The building Principal shall respond in writing regarding this request.
25.05.2	Professional Staff Members assigned by the Principal/Administration to a
change of grade level or teaching subject area assignment, in accordance with their certification, within a building may request a conference to discuss the assignment and, if it is finally decided by the Principal/Administration that such assignment shall be made, the Professional Staff Member may request the reason in writing. It will be the responsibility of the Administration to provide orientation when changes of assignment occur.
25.06 Assignment of Adjunct Staff
25.06.1 Adjunct staff are those persons employed by Dayton City Schools, who are non-certified, who bring some expertise to a particular field. The adjunct staff may work with students assigned to the Professional Staff Member in small groups, or as otherwise assigned.
25.06.2 Adjunct staff shall not be responsible for grades, lesson plans, or be a part of the school's master schedule.
25.06.3 Assignment of adjunct staff shall occur only if a Professional Staff Member is responsible for the student.
25.06.4 There shall be no adjunct staff hired if there is a Professional Staff Member available to perform the duties.
40
I
25.07 Reduction in Teaching Staff
25.07.1 The BOARD may reduce the teaching staff positions because of financial reasons, decreased enrollment of pupils, return to duty of regular Professional Staff Members after leaves of absence or by reason of suspension of school, reorganization, or territorial changes affecting the District. In making such reduction, the BOARD will proceed to suspend contracts in accordance with the recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools, who will, within each teaching field affected, give preference to Professional Staff Members on continuing contracts and to Professional Staff Members who have greater seniority.
25.07.2 Professional Staff Members, whose continuing contracts are suspended, will have the right of restoration to continuing service status in the order of seniority of service in the District if and when teaching positions become vacant or are created for which any of such Professional Staff Members are or become qualified.
25.07.3 After giving recall rights to eligible Professional Staff Members with continuing contract status, Professional Staff Members whose limited contracts have been suspended because of a reduction in force shall have the right to recall as follows:
A.	Recall rights shall be limited to thirty-six (36) months or the period of time the Professional Staff Member was continuously employed by the BOARD, whichever is longer, and commence on the day following the employee's last day of work.
B.	Professional Staff Members whose limited contracts were suspended shall be recalled to a vacancy in the inverse order of suspension as positions become available in their area(s) of certification. Professional Staff Members whose contracts have been suspended must notify the District in writing of any changes in their area(s) of certification.
If a Professional Staff Member refuses an offer of recall, said Professional Staff Member's name shall be removed from the recall list.
25.07.4 Professional Staff Members on recall status shall have the responsibility for keeping the Human Resources Department informed of their current address, name change, and telephone number. Notification of recall shall be by certified mail at the Professional Staff Member's last known address. Failure to contact the Human Resources Department to accept such recall within ten (10) calendar days of the date of such mailing shall constitute a “turn-down" of offer.
25.07.5 The BOARD shall notify the ASSOCIATION of anticipated positions to be eliminated and the names of Professional Staff Members affected, at least thirty (30) days prior to such reduction. At least two (2) days prior to the mailing of notices to the Professional Staff Members affected by a staff reduction, the BOARD will advise the ASSOCIATION of the number of Professional Staff Members to receive such notification.
41
25,07.6 The ADMINISTRATION will make good faith efforts to notify Professional Staff Members involved in a staff reduction by May 15th of the school year. The parties acknowledge that unforeseen circumstances may make further reductions necessary. When this occurs, the ADMINISTRATION will notify the ASSOCIATION of the approximate number of Professional Staff Members affected, and the reasons for the reduction.
25.07.7 Professional Staff Members involved in a staff reduction who assume employment after the start of the school year, and during the succeeding school year will have no waiting period for resuming insurance coverage. Professional Staff Member must re-enroll to continue insurance coverage within five (5) days of recall.
25.07.8 All Professional Staff Members who are involved in a staff reduction process will have all insurance coverage continued through August 30th in accordance with the provisions of Article Forty-Nine.
25.07.9 Opportunity to discuss data necessitating the reduction will be afforded to the ASSOCIATION.
25.08 Promotions
25.08.1 Promotional positions are defined as follows: Positions under the control of the Superintendent (as opposed to the BOARD) paying an increased differential and/or positions on the administrative/ supervisory level. The ADMINISTRATION shall give consideration to qualified candidates from within its own staff of employees in addition to other qualified candidates when filling vacancies above the Professional Staff Member level.
25.08.2 Whenever a vacancy occurs in a promotional position for which Professional Staff Members are qualified and which will involve employment of thirty (30) or more days, the ADMINISTRATION will publicize the position by special bulletins to each school and the ASSOCIATION. These shall occur at least ten (10) days prior to the deadline for applications to be filed. Such bulletins shall include information concerning general responsibilities, qualifications, procedures for obtaining the position, and the deadline for filing the application. Basic criteria to be considered for each position will be indicated on all publicity. To the extent possible, the ADMINISTRATION will publicize such positions prior to the end of the school year.
ARTICLE TWENTY-SIX PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBER-PROTECTION
26.01 Development of School Discipline Procedures
Each school building shall have a school discipline committee consisting of the building ADMINISTRATORS and representatives appointed by the school Faculty Council. Prior to the end of each school year for the following school year, the building administration in collaboration with the School Discipline Committee shall assess and may redesign the current school discipline procedures which must be consistent with 26.02. During the
42
first full week of school: 1) the school discipline committee will familiarize the staff with specific discipline procedures and, 2) the building principal will meet with students to review all school rules and regulations, and 3) the classroom teacher will review and reinforce the school rules and regulations. The ADMINISTRATION will provide cooperative assistance and counsel to Professional as they carry out such procedures. Section 3319.41 of the Ohio Revised Code states that a Professional Staff Member, Principal or Administrator may use such force as is reasonable and necessary to quell a disturbance threatening physical injury to others, to obtain possession of weapons or other dangerous objects upon the person or within the control of the pupils, for the purpose of self-defense, or for the protection of persons or property.
26.02 Student Discipline Policy
The building administration and Professional Staff Members will follow the Board of Education's discipline policy, "Guide to Student Conduct"; and specific school procedures as developed by the school discipline committee to provide fair, consistent discipline in every building.
26.03 Removal of Students
26.03.1 Professional Staff Members initiating any request or recommendation or other action to remove, suspend, or expel any student for any reason shall be required to submit such request or recommendation or action in writing with whatever documentation or information is available to support such request, recommendation or action and, should the need arise, shall be required to testify in any legal or administrative proceedings resulting either from such recommendation, request or action or otherwise seeking to remove, suspend, or expel any student. The ADMINISTRATION will provide reasonable on-the-job protection, counsel and assistance in such situations. Professional Staff Members shall immediately be made aware of the disposition of the recommendation by the ADMINISTRATION, including the rationale for such disposition.
26.03.2 Upon return to school, after a student has been expelled from a campus for violence against a professional staff member in accordance with the provisions of tiie Student Code of Conduct., the student shall be reassigned, to the extent possible, to a campus other than the one from which he or she has been expelled.
26.04 Civil Disturbance
26.04.1 In the case of a general civil disturbance in the area of a school, a Professional Staff Member fearful for his/her safety should contact the proper school authorities for instructions as to work assignment.
26.04.2 The ADMINISTRATION will not require any Professional Staff Member to report to a school where clear and present danger exists, as determined by the ADMINISTRATION.
43
26.04.3 In the event of disorder or other emergency while school is in session, no Professional Staff Member shall leave a class unattended or dismiss a class unless instructed to do so by the Building Principal.
26.05 Parent Complaints Against Professional Staff Members
26.0	5.1 Communications between the community and the school ideally should be such that most complaints may be resolved through personal conferences at the school level. Various avenues of contact between Professional Staff Member, pupil, parent, Principal and other appropriate staff personnel should be pursued before using the formal procedures outlined below. If such conferences do not lead to understanding and resolution of problems involved, a parent may pursue further action by submitting a written complaint against a Professional Staff Member to the Building Principal. The Principal shall give a copy to the Professional Staff Member.
26.0	5.2 Further action concerning the complaint shall be initiated by the following procedure:
A.	If requested by the complainant or the Professional Staff Member, a meeting involving the Professional Staff Member, the Principal and the complainant will be arranged at a mutually convenient time to discuss the complaint.
B.	If the complaint is unresolved, it may be appealed to the appropriate Director or Deputy Superintendent.
C.	If it is not resolved at that level, it may be appealed to the Superintendent.
D.	If it is still unresolved, it may be appealed to the BOARD.
In each of the steps above, a Professional Staff Member may request and be accompanied by counsel and/or ASSOCIATION representative. Conferences regarding such complaints shall be in private.
26.06 Administrative Concerns/Complaints Regarding Professional Staff Members
26.06.1 When an administrative concem/complaint arises regarding a Professional Staff Member, an informal conference shall be held with the administrator and the Professional Staff Member. If the concern/ complaint is resolved, there shall be no written documentation of the conference placed in the Professional Staff Member's personnel file. If the concem/complaint is not resolved, the administrator may document the concern/ complaint in writing and place a copy in the Professional Staff Member's personnel file. The Professional Staff Member may attach a response to the concem/complaint. If the concern/ complaint has not reoccurred in the next two (2) years from the time the documentation was written, the documentation about the concern/ complaint shall be removed from the Professional Staff Member's personnel file.
26.06.2 A Professional Staff Member may be accompanied by an ASSOCIATION representative at any conference in which the Professional Staff Member is to be issued written disciplinary documentation.
44
26.07 Requirement for Administrator to be in the Building
26.07.1	For the protection of both pupils and Professional Staff Members, there shall
be an administrator present during the normal school day when the building is open. In the absence of an administrator, the Principal shall designate another
Professional Staff Member to act as the Principal's representative, unless a Principal aide has been appointed pursuant to the provisions of Subsection -26.07.2.
26.07.2 Principal aides may be appointed in any elementary school that does not have an assistant principal.
26.08 Limitations on Observers
Whenever a complaint or court action is pending against a Professional Staff Member, no one other than the Professional Staff Member's supervisors or other individuals in the employ of the BOARD as designated by the Superintendent, will be permitted to observe the Professional Staff Member's class without the approval of the Professional Staff Member.
26.09 Assault
All cases of physical threat or violence to Professional Staff Members shall be reported to the Principal immediately after occurrence. If, in the judgment of the Professional Staff Member and/or the Principal, the assault is sufficiently severe, the police shall be notified. The ADMINISTRATION will provide reasonable on-the-job protection, counsel, and reasonable assistance in such situations. A written report of all assaults on staff personnel will be made to the Superintendent's designee for further investigation. (See also Article Thirty-Nine - Assault Leave).
26.10	Role of School Discipline Committee and Professional Staff Member Protection
Professional Staff Members have the right to bring specific discipline concerns to the School Discipline Committee. Should discipline in a school be in jeopardy because of inadequate security arrangements or repeated lack of procedural enforcement it shall be the right of the school Faculty Council or School Discipline Committee to request assistance through the Central Administration and/or the ASSOCIATION.
26.11	Professional Staff Member Referrals of Student Discipline
Referral forms in each building shall be in triplicate form. When a student is sent to the office for disciplinary reasons, the Professional Staff Member shall complete a referral form which includes a description of the incident. The Professional Staff Member shall retain one copy and forward the other two copies to the office. The referral form shall include an option for the Professional Staff Member to mark "conference requested." If so marked, the Principal and the Professional Staff Member shall discuss the matter prior to the administrative determination of the appropriate discipline. The purpose of the discussion shall be to give consideration to the appropriate discipline. If circumstances preclude holding the conference prior to the determination of the appropriate discipline, it will be held within three days following the determination of the discipline.
45
The Principal shall return a copy of the referral form to the Professional Staff Member with a description of the discipline taken.
26.12	Joint Discipline Committee
A committee shall be formed consisting of equal numbers appointed by the Superintendent and the D.E.A. President in order to continue the process of improving student discipline. Both the Superintendent or designee and the D.E.A. President or designee shall be members of the committee and attend committee meetings. However, the Superintendent and the D.E.A. President shall personally attend two meetings during the school year. Release time shall be provided for the committee meetings which shall meet at least four times during the school year. The committee’s purpose shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
-	Review of the Guide to Student Conduct (to be done annually).
-	Review compilation of an annual report provided by Pupil Services and make recommendations to the Superintendent and Board of Education.
ARTICLE TWENTY-SEVEN PROFESSIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY
27.0	1 Definition of Professional Accountability
Professional Staff Members must acquire specialized knowledge, maintain certification and uphold professional standards of practice.
27.0	2 Requirements of Professional Accountability
27.02.1 The Professional Staff Member will maintain a record of professional development and/or equivalent activities.
27.02.2 Each Professional Staff Member shall maintain proper certification/licensure.
27.02.3 Each Professional Staff Member shall increase the use of good education practices, as learned in Staff Development requirements.
27.03 Professional Accountability Requirements
27.03.1 All Professional Staff Members shall be required to complete 20 hours of professional staff development annually in the district. The fulfillment of this requirement must be completed from May 15th of the current year to May 15th of the following year.
The Board will identify areas for the required professional staff development by May 1st of each year for the following year. The Board will plan the professional staff development to Professional Staff Members on the following days:
Opening Convocation Day (1/2 day)
Staff Development Day (full day)
46
WOEA Day (foil day)
End of semester Staff Development Day (1/2 day)
If the Board fails to identify areas for the district's required professional staff development, then each school will select a team (made up of the administrator and several Professional Staff Members) to plan and implement professional staff development for its building staff.	-
A certificate of attendance will be documentation of a Professional Staff Member's participation in professional staff development.
27.03.2 Level I and Level 2 Professional Staff Members who need to renew and/or upgrade a certificate or are on a licensure track are required by the state to have additional training either in the form of course work or PDU's. These Professional Staff Members will follow the guidelines as established in Article 32 - Professional Development Committee.
Level 2 Professional Staff Members on a continuing contract may elect to participate in the Selected Professional Development Model or the Strategic Professional Development Model as defined in Article 45 - Formal Evaluation of Professional Staff Members and Documentation.
27.03.3 All Professional Staff Members are responsible for the following:
-	maintaining weekly lesson plans/work schedule
-	adhering to established curriculum, course of study and/or IEP
-	maintaining contact with parents of all students
-	following Guide to Student Conduct
-	following Teachers' Code of Ethics of the Education Profession
-	demonstrating use of four (4) types of teaching methods annually
27.04 Failure to Meet Accountability Requirements
27.04.1 Failure to satisfy the above requirements may result in the Professional Staff Member being placed on a plan of improvement in the first year.
27.04.2 Failure to satisfy requirements set forth in the plan of improvement and/or the requirements of Section 27.03, in the second year may result in termination of the Professional Staff Member’s Contract.
27.05 Ad Hoc Committee on Accountability
There will be a committee on accountability. The object is to research accountability programs. The committee can recommend a program, which then has to be ratified by both the Association and the Board. This committee must have met their objective by the ending date of this Contract. There shall be an equal number of Professional Staff Members and administrators.
47
ARTICLE TWENTY-EIGHT SUMMER SCHOOL AND SUMMER SCHOOL PROGRAMS
28.01 Contracts for Summer School
Professional Staff Members appointed to summer school, or other summer programs shall be given a supplemental contract for such extra duty assignments. All appointments will be made from the Professional Staff Member staff of the Dayton Public Schools.
Exceptions will be made only if the number of qualified applicants fails to meet the number of required position vacancies or in the case of externally imposed requirements.
28.02 Seniority for Summer School and Summer Programs
28.02.1 Seniority as used in this section will mean the number of years of continuous service in the summer school program, commencing with the latest date of service in such program.
28.02.2 Seniority is accrued by teaching a full summer school session. If a Professional Staff Member is working in other summer programs, seniority is accrued in a proportionate amount to a full summer school session.
28.02.3 Summer school seniority is broken when a Professional Staff Member does not apply and does not work in the summer school program.
28.02.4 Summer school seniority is not broken nor accrued if a Professional Staff Member applies and because of a drop in students over the previous year is not selected to teach in the summer school program.
28.02.5 Professional Staff Members will not have broken seniority and will be credited .	with a year of seniority in summer school if such Professional Staff Members
serve as reserve teachers in the summer school program and complete at least 20% of the total days while substitute teaching during a summer school session.
28.02.6 Summer school seniority is not broken nor accrued if the Professional Staff Member has a conflict as stated in Section 28.08.
28.03 Openings for Summer School
28.03.1	A list of openings for summer teaching positions shall be maintained at the
Human Resources Department in a place accessible to Professional Staff Members.
28.03.2 A list of openings for other summer program positions shall be maintained in the office designated by the Superintendent and shall be accessible to Professional Staff Members. Professional Staff Members who desire to be considered for employment in such positions should apply for such openings in accordance with the instructions on the posting.
28.04 Applications for Summer School
28.0	4.1 Applications for summer school teaching positions shall be filed by March 15th in the Human Resources Department.
48
28.0	4.2	Summer school applicants will, if possible, receive notification by the May
Board meeting that:
-	They have been hired
-	There is a possibility of appointment
-	They are unlikely to be employed
28.0	4.3 In the case of last-minute changes of enrollment, later notification may be necessary. The number of individuals appointed to the summer school shall be determined by enrollment.
28.0	4.4 In determining which individual applicants will be recommended for appointment to other summer programs, the Superintendent will consider, among other factors, the following:
-	Racial balance
-	The qualifications of the applicant
-	Past service in the summer position sought
28.05 Summer School Appointments
28.05.1 The variables to be weighed in considering appointments to summer school teaching positions include:
-	Certification
-	Racial balance
-	Seniority within the summer school program
-	Specific professional competencies
-	Recent teaching experience in the appropriate subject matter
-	Attendance patterns in regular and/or past summer school sessions
-	The applicant's demonstrated summer school performance
Of these, seniority within the summer school program will be the most important consideration, except where other variable (s) require greater consideration. If the most senior applicants) do(es) not receive the appointment, (s)he will be given the reason(s) in writing.
28.06 Summer School Working Conditions
28.06.1 Class size limitations shall conform to those in the regular school day program.
28.06.2 Summer school Professional Staff Members shall have access to all audiovisual equipment in the school building and from the central audiovisual division.
28.06.3 Summer school Professional Staff Members shall receive full payment for the July 4th holiday as part of their salary. When July 4th occurs on a Saturday or a Sunday and the holiday is not observed on another day, the summer school Professional Staff Members shall receive an additional day of pay.
49
28.07 Reduetion of Summer School Staff
28.07.1 When decreased enrollments make it necessary for a summer school staff reduction during the summer school term, such reductions shall:
A.	be made on a program-by-program basis, with the reductions occurring in the programs affected by the decreased enrollment;
B.	be made based on length of service in summer school and staff racial balance, which shall be the criteria determining which existing Staff Members remain in programs affected by the reductions;
C.	not grant Professional Staff Members affected by a reduction the right to displace any other Professional Staff Member teaching in any other summer school program; and
D.	permit Professional Staff Members who were employed during the prior summer school term, who are not re-employed due to a staff reduction, a priority for re-employment the following summer over new hires, based upon length of service in summer school and staff racial balance.
28.07.2 The term "program- by-program" as used in this article shall refer to broad areas of certification, i.e., Social Studies, Language Arts, etc.
28.08 Conflicts with Summer School Schedule
Professional Staff Members employed by the BOARD in positions with hours that clearly conflict with summer school employment, or who are involved in BOARD sponsored professional development activities or the pursuit of additional education certification or an advanced degree, shall be ineligible for summer school employment. "Clearly-conflicting" shall mean a schedule conflict which would result in the employee's absence for two or more summer school days or the equivalent thereof and which cannot be accommodated by the Professional Staff Member flexing his/her hours in the non-summer school position. If a Professional Staff Member with summer school seniority is prevented from teaching summer school as a result of a conflict, the employee shall be considered on leave of absence from school and the employee's summer school seniority shall not be broken by leave.
28.09 Summer School Evaluation
Professional Staff Members may receive an annual evaluation at the conclusion of their summer school assignment. The evaluation instrument will be jointly developed between the BOARD and the ASSOCIATION (Appendix F) to measure effective instruction during the summer school session. The evaluator shall be an administrator with the proper certificate to evaluate according to O.R.C. Section 4117.
28.10 Sick Leave Accumulation
Sick leave for summer school shall be accumulated according to Section 33.10.
50
ARTICLE TWENTY-NINE NIGHT SCHOOL
29.01 Night School Defined
As used in this Article, the term “night school" shall be limited in its scope to those high school academic courses offered for school credit in the High School Division of the Dayton Public Night School. This Section shall have no applicability to the individuals employed or to be employed in the miscellaneous Classes Division and all vocational programs offered through or by the Dayton Public Night School.
29.02 Night School Application
29.02.1 Persons interested in teaching night school should file their applications in the night school office. A person who makes application and does not receive an appointment may request an explanation.
29.02.2 An annual list of openings for night school teaching positions in the night school programs covered by this article shall be maintained at the night school office in a place accessible to Professional Staff Members.
29.02.3 The night school contract shall be on a per hour worked basis.
29.02.4 Regular night school Professional Staff Members shall be notified, when possible, at least one (1) week prior to their appointments.
29.03 Night School Registration
Night school Professional Staff Members in the bargaining unit who are employed to help with registration shall be compensated at the regular night school hourly rate for each hour worked.
29.04 Working Conditions
29.04.1 Class size limitations in the night school programs covered by this article shall conform to those in regular day school.
29.04.2 Night school Professional Staff Members shall have access to all audiovisual equipment in the school building and from the central audiovisual division.
29.05 Night School Cancellation
Professional Staff Members shall be paid for all regular hours of work lost when a night school class is cancelled on a particular workday by order of the Superintendent. This provision is not applicable to cancellation of a class due to enrollment decline or budget limitations or other like situations.
29.06 Absences During Night School
29.06.1	Sick leave for night school shall accumulate according to Subsection 33.09.1.
51
29.06.2 Extended illness shall not be cause for permanent dismissal from night school. Chronic absence from night school teaching assignments shall be cause for dismissal from night school duties.
29.06.3 Any night school Professional Staff Member granted leave of absence from day school will be granted similar leave of absence from his/her night school position.	,
29.07 Reduction in Night School
When decreased enrollments make it necessary for a night school staff reduction in the night school programs covered by this article during a school year and after class has commenced, such reductions shall be made on a program-by-program basis with the reductions occurring in the programs affected by the decreased enrollment. Length of service in night school and staff balance shall be the criteria determining which of the existing Staff Members remain in programs affected by the reduction. Professional Staff Members affected by a reduction shall not have the right to displace any other Professional Staff Member teaching in any other night school program. All Professional Staff Members who were employed in the night school program covered by this CONTRACT, who are not re-employed due to a staff reduction will be given priority for reemployment in night school programs covered by this CONTRACT for which they are qualified.
29.08 Adult Basic and Literacy Education (ABLE)
Full time Adult Basic and Literacy Education staff have preference for rehiring rights if there is a reduction in staff. ABLE staff will be given consideration over new hires in hiring into the regular school district program if a vacancy occurs for a position for which an ABLE Staff Member is certified and qualified.
ARTICLE THIRTY DEPARTMENTALIZATION/CLUSTERING
30.01 Departmentalization
30.01.1 Typical faculty organizations may take the form of departments delineated along the lines of subject matter fields at the secondary level and grade levels in the elementary schools, so that Professional Staff Members are grouped in their respective areas of competency.
30.01.2 It is not the intent of this Article, however, to restrict the operational structure of schools to the department type of organization. Schools are encouraged to experiment with varied organizational patterns in search of more effective ways of achieving their objectives.
30.01.3 Where departments are authorized and organized by the Superintendent in writing, Department Chairpersons shall be appointed by the Principal, after consultation with the department members. The Chairperson shall be considered a member of the teaching faculty and shall have no authority of an administrative nature.
52
30.01.4 Provided that no additional staff will be required to be added to the teaching staff of the building (as determined by the Central ADMINISTRATION), a Building Principal has the discretion to adjust the teaching load of a Departmental Chairperson to assist him/her in performing the functions of a Department Chairperson.
30.02 Clustering	-
30.02.1 “Clustering” is a form of faculty organization that can be used at any level. A cluster is defined as a school within a school comprised of 160 students and 5 classroom Professional Staff Members. Clustering is intended to provide flexibility in the identification of student needs, integration of discipline, parent contact, team teaching/ teaching strategies, and in the coordination of school, family, and community resources.
30.02.2 Where clusters are authorized and organized by the Superintendent in writing, Cluster Leaders shall be appointed by the Principal, after consultation with the cluster members. The Cluster Leader shall be considered a member of the teaching faculty and shall have no authority of an administrative nature.
30.02.3 Provided that no additional staff will be required to be added to the teaching staff of the building (as determined by the Central ADMINISTRATION), a Building Principal has the discretion to adjust the teaching load of a Cluster Leader to assist him/her in performing the functions of a Cluster Leader.
ARTICLE THIRTY-ONE
JOINT CURRICULUM ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Curriculum changes shall be reviewed and recommended for approval by the Joint Curricular Advisory Committee consisting of equal numbers of representatives from the ASSOCIATION and ADMINISTRATION, before implementation of the change.
ARTICLE THIRTY-TWO PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
32.01 Professional Development Committee
In accordance with O.R.C. 3319.22 the parties agree to establish a committee called the Local Professional Development Committee.
A.	This committee shall consist of at least five (5) members appointed by the ASSOCIATION President and at least four (4) members appointed by the Superintendent. One of the Superintendents appointees will be a principal employed by the district. Teachers will always make up a majority of LPDC.
B.	These appointments shall be made annually on or before May 1st. The term of office for members serving on the committee shall be three (3) years commencing July 1st. One third of the committee shall be appointed each year. When an appointee
53
removes herself/himself from the committee during the year, a replacement appointment will be made by the ASSOCIATION President or the Superintendent.
C.	The appointments shall be made by each party outlined above by notifying the other of those appointed.
32.02 Approval of Plans	*
This committee will be responsible for approving and reviewing personal development plans for course work, continuing education units and/or other equivalent activities.
32.02.1 This committee will be responsible for keeping records of all applications for licensure and the disposition thereof.
32.03 Meetings of LPDC
This committee will meet as determined by committee. The committee may be convened by the request of two (2) sitting members to deal with emergency situations.
32.04 Consensus Decision Making
To the extent practical, decisions of this committee will be made by consensus. When consensus is not possible the decision will be made by a majority vote of the committee members present and voting.
32.05 LPDC Committee Training
If during the course of carrying out committee responsibilities, there is a requirement to have inservice or training, they may do so at no cost to the committee or loss of regular pay. All necessary, actual and reasonable costs of training will be reimbursed by the Board of Education in accordance with the negotiated agreement. Compensation for committee members will be as negotiated in the Supplemental Salary section of the CONTRACT.
32.06 Appeal of LPDC Decision
If a professional Staff Member is in dispute of a decision made by this committee, they may appeal within three days to the districtwide appeal BOARD, pursuant to the LPDC Procedural Packet, who will render a decision in accordance with their own rules and regulations.
32.07 Agree to Negotiate LPDC
The parties (D.E.A. and the BOARD) agree to meet annually and negotiate any necessary changes to comply with the law and the needs of the committee.
54
ARTICLE THIRTY-THREE
SICK LEAVE
33.01 Usage of Sick Leave
A Professional Staff Member eligible for sick leave shall be granted such leave when absent from work and entitled to such sick leave in accordance with the provision of 3319.141 of the Ohio Revised Code, as follows: "for absence due to personal illness, pregnancy, injury, exposure to contagious disease which could be communicated to others, and for absence due to illness, injury, or death in the employee's immediate family".
33.01.1	Immediate Family - The "immediate family" includes the father, mother,
current spouse, child, brother, sister, the employee's grandparents and grandchildren, and any other dependent of the Ptofessional Staff Member who is a permanent resident of the household of the Professional Staff Member, and in-laws bearing any of these relationships.
33.01.1 Other Relatives - "Other relatives” includes uncle, aunt, cousin, niece, nephew, and in-laws bearing any of these relationships.
33 .01.2 Regular Earnings - The per diem compensation received by a Professional Staff Member while working on the regular day school assignment.
33.02 Application for Sick Leave
33.02.1 Professional Staff Members are to notify their building Principal of his/her absence. They are to call at least one half hour before the end of the school day on the day of their absence if they are to return to work the next day.
33.02.2 The BOARD shall require each Professional Staff Member to furnish a written, signed statement on forms provided by the BOARD for use of sick leave upon return from sick leave. If medical attention is required, the employee's statement shall list the name of the attending physician and the date (s)he was consulted.
The ADMINISTRATION may require a signed physician's statement confirming the need for sick leave after five (5) consecutive days of absence or where the Professional Staff Member has established a pattern of absenteeism.
Abuse of sick leave, when substantiated by ADMINISTRATION, may result in Professional Staff Member being subject to disciplinary action in accordance with the provisions in Article Forty-Eight of the Contract.
33.03 Accumulation of Sick Leave
A Professional Staff Member shall accumulate sick leave each month at the rate of 1.25 times the number of regularly scheduled hours per day in accordance with the provisions of 3319.141 of the Revised Code of Ohio (15 days sick leave with pay per year).
55
IM..
33.04 Accrual of Sick Leave
33.04.1	The maximum number of hours to be accumulated are 250 times the number of
regularly scheduled hours per day. For administering regulations relative to sick leave accumulation, sick leave shall be credited fractionally on a monthly basis.
33.04.2 Pursuant to 3319.141 of the Ohio Revised Code, any Professional Staff Member being employed by the BOARD, who, preceding this employment, has been in the employ of another BOARD of education or state, county, or municipal government in Ohio will receive full time credit for the sick leave accumulated in this previous employment as shown in the records of the last employing organization to the maximum accumulation set forth in Subsection 33.04.1.
33.05 Insurance on Leave
All insurances will continue as stated in Article Forty-Nine as long as a Professional Staff Member is on paid sick leave.
33.06 Advancement of Sick Leave
Pursuant to 3319.141 of the Ohio Revised Code, each beginning Professional Staff Member and each Professional Staff Member having used all available sick leave will be given an accumulation of sick leave once each school year, as prescribed and as limited by 3319.08 of the Ohio Revised Code.
33.07 Seniority on Sick Leave
All seniority continues to accrue while on paid sick leave.
33.08 Assignment on Return from Extended Sick Leave
The Professional Staff Member will be in the same assignment as before use of sick leave. The ADMINISTRATION may temporarily reassign the Professional Staff Member for the remainder of a semester.
33.09 Night School Sick Leave
33.09.1 Night school Professional Staff Members shall accumulate sick leave at the rate of (1) hour sick leave for each 17.3 hours of completed service in night school.
33.09.2 Professional Members shall separately accumulate sick leave in the day school and in the night school. Absences in the day school shall be charged against sick leave accumulated during day school, and absences in the night school shall be charged against sick leave accumulated during night school.
33.09.3 Each Professional Staff Member who teaches in the night school for the first time, will be given an advancement of eight (8) hours of sick leave at the beginning of the school year, to be charged against the sick leave (s)he subsequently accumulates under this section. If at the end of the school year,
56	.
I
the Professional Staff Member has not paid back the advancement of sick leave, the unpaid amount will be deducted from the Professional Staff Member's final paycheck of the school year.
33.09.4 Sick leave accumulation under this section shall not be subject to the severance pay provisions of Article Fifty-Three.
33.10	Summer School Sick Leave
Summer school Professional Staff Members shall accumulate sick leave at the rate of one (1) hour sick leave for each ten (10) hours of completed service.
33.10.1	Professional Staff Members shall separately accumulate sick leave for summer school. Absences during summer school shall be charged only against sick leave accumulated during summer school. The maximum number of hours to be accumulated are six (6) times the number of regularly scheduled hours per day
33.10.2	Each Professional Staff Member who teaches in summer school for the first time, will be given an advancement of four and one-half (4-1/2) hours of sick leave at the beginning of the summer school program, to be charged against the sick leave (s)he subsequently accumulates under this section. If at the end of each summer school program, the Professional Staff Member has not paid back the advancement of sick leave, the unpaid amount will be deducted from the Professional Staff Members, final summer school paycheck.
33.10.3	Sick leave accumulated under this section shall not be subject to the severance pay provisions of Article Fifty-Three.
33.11	Sick Leave While on Worker's Compensation
In the event of a service-connected occupational illness or injury, as determined by the Industrial Commission, Professional Staff Members will not be required to exhaust sick leave before receiving compensation from file Industrial Commission. Professional Staff Members may utilize sick leave to receive the difference in pay between Worker's Compensation benefits received and regular compensation. If a Professional Staff Member elects to do so, there will be a charge against the sick leave credits of the affected Professional Staff Member only to the extent necessary on a pro-rata basis. Professional Staff Members who desire to do so must present evidence of the amount received from the Bureau of Worker's Compensation to the Treasurer of the BOARD, and, thereafter, the Treasurer of the BOARD will issue a check for the difference and make the appropriate charge against the sick leave credits of the affected Professional Staff Member.
Any Professional Staff Member absent from work because of any service connected occupational illness or injury, as determined by the Industrial Commission, shall be entitled to reinstatement at the appropriate rate of pay, upon approval of the application to return to work. Such application shall include medical certification of ability to assume all full-time responsibilities of the job description. Such application must be made within one (1) school year following the date of the last receipt of compensation benefits from the State of Ohio to permit return in accordance with this Section.
57

ARTICLE THIRTY-FOUR SICK LEAVE BANK
34.01 Establishment of Sick Leave Bank
Sick Leave Bank, hereinafter referred to as "Bank", shall be established for Dayton Education Association. Participation in the Bank shall be voluntary. The Bank shall remain in existence, provided that eighty percent (80%) of the bargaining unit members volunteer to participate, and shall be governed by the procedures in this Article. The participation drive shall attain 80% of the Professional Staff Members by October 1st.
34.02 Participation in the Sick Leave Bank
Any new employee with one (1) or more days of accrued unused sick leave may elect to participate in the Bank and must do so by September 15 of each year. This includes new employees who are advanced five (5) days.
34.03 Donation to Sick Leave Bank
A participating employee in the Bank shall contribute one (1) day of sick leave to the Bank. Participating employees, except those whose accumulated sick leave has been depleted, shall contribute an additional day each time the Bank contains days numbering fewer than two hundred (200). Sick leave days shall not be returned to the employee except as provided hereinafter for the employee's personal illness, accident or injury.
34.04 Withdrawal from Sick Leave Bank
A Sick Leave Bank Committee (formerly known as Catastrophic Leave Committee) shall have three (3) members appointed by the ASSOCIATION, and three (3) members appointed by the ADMINISTRATION, and shall be operated by guidelines established by that committee to approve or disapprove all requests for withdrawal from the Bank within the following limitations:
34.04.1 A withdrawal may be approved only upon the depletion of the respective employee's accumulated sick leave.
34.04.2 The maximum withdrawal for any employee shall be forty-five (45) days. Additional days may be granted by approval of the Sick Leave Bank Committee.
34.04.3 An employee may apply to the Committee for a withdrawal in advance of the depletion of such employee's accumulated sick leave, to be granted, if needed, upon such depletion.
34.04.4 Withdrawals shall be in full day units.
34.04.5 All applications for withdrawal shall be in writing, shall be verified by the Committee, shall contain a physician's referral, and may be submitted on behalf of an employee by another person when necessary.
58
34.05 Replacement of Withdrawal
There shall be no requirement for an employee to replace sick leave days withdrawn from the Bank, except as equally required of all other participating employees.
34.06 Eligibility for Sick Leave Bank
A Professional Staff Member who chooses not to participate in the Bank shall not be eligible to withdraw any sick leave already contributed by other Professional Staff Members to the Bank.
ARTICLE THIRTY-FIVE PERSONAL LEAVE
35.01 Unrestricted Personal Leave Benefits
A Professional Staff Member shall be granted one (1) personal day in each school year. Professional Staff Members hired during the third academic quarter or later of the school year shall be given one half day of personal leave for their first year of employment.
35.01.1 Personal leave shall not accumulate. In the event personal leave is not used before the last ten (10) student days of a school year, it shall be paid with the final pay as additional compensation.
35.01.2 All requests for personal leave must be submitted to the ADMINISTRATION, when possible, at least two (2) days in advance of the school day on which the Professional Staff Member desires to be off on personal leave.
35.01.3 Usage of Personal Leave
A.	Participation in activities called by or sponsored by the ASSOCIATION shall not be considered valid grounds for use of a personal leave day, unless prior approval in writing is secured from the Superintendent.
B.	Personal leave shall not be charged for a leave of absence unless the Professional Staff Member has requested use of such day as personal .	leave.
C.	Personal leave may be taken only in a minimum increment of either one— half(l/2)orone(l)fullday.
D.	Personal leave may not be used during the first or last week of school in any semester or on the day before or after any holiday or vacation.
35.02 Restricted Personal Leave Benefits
Four (4) days of restricted personal leave will be given for the following reasons:
35.02.1 Restricted personal leave from normal teaching duties of up to a total of four (4) days per school year without loss of regular earnings, will be granted by the ADMINISTRATION upon submission of satisfactory evidence acceptable to the ADMINISTRATION of an actual emergency situation.
59
35.02.2 Such leave will require a certificate of explanation, signed by the Professional Staff Member, giving reason or justification. If the justification given is a reason for which sick leave could be used, sick leave must be used rather than restricted personal leave. Examples of justifiable restricted personal leave may be the following:
A.	Emergencies
B.	Obligations
C.	Disaster affecting Professional Staff Member's immediate family or family property. For purposes of this provision, a "disaster” shall be defined as a "sudden, unexpected and unanticipated calamitous event which produces material damage, loss and distress. " Examples of a disaster include, but are not limited to: a flood causing damage to the residence of the Professional Staff Member, a fire in tile residence of the Professional Staff Member, or a tornado causing damage to the residence of the Professional Staff Member.
D.	Road conditions making it impossible to report to work. Every effort should be expended to report to work even though the hour may be late.
E.	Observance of religious holidays when total abstinence from work is required pursuant to the rule of the religion of the Professional Staff Member, not to exceed three (3) days per school year.
F.	No more than one (1) day for attendance at graduation exercises beyond high school involving the Professional Staff Member or a member of the immediate family of the Professional Staff Member. This day must be either the day of the graduation ceremony, or, if the graduation ceremony takes place on a Saturday or Sunday, the last day of the calendar week before or the first day of the calendar week after the graduation ceremony.
G.	No more than one (1) day for attending a wedding involving a member of the Professional Staff Member's immediate family (as defined in Subsection 33.01.1). This day must be either the day of the wedding ceremony, or, if the wedding ceremony takes place on a Saturday or Sunday, the last day of the calendar week before or the first day of the calendar week after the wedding ceremony.
35.03 Attendance in Court
A Professional Staff Member who is summoned for jury duty during normal teaching hours or who is not party to a court case or administrative hearing who is subpoenaed to appear in a court or administrative hearing during normal teaching hours will be granted a leave of absence from normal teaching duties to permit compliance, provided the Professional Staff Member meets the following:
35.0	3.1 Notifies the Building Principal of the building to which the Professional Staff Member is assigned within two (2) days after receipt of the jury summons or subpoena.
35.0	3.2 Submits a statement signed by the Professional Staff Member to the Treasurer stating:
60
I
A.	the date and time in attendance at the proceeding
B.	the actual amount of compensation which was received as a result of the appearance or, if no compensation was received, a statement so stating.
35.04 The amount of any witness fee or other compensation, except that which is paid specifically for expenses incurred by reason of the subpoena or summons, must be remitted by the Professional Staff Member to the office of the Treasurer before the end of the pay period in which the absence occurred. Adherence to this will result in no loss of salary. If this regulation is not followed, the absence will be deemed non-paid leave of absence.
35.04 Effect on Salary
In cases in which the Professional Staff Member is a party in an action arising out of such Professional Staff Member's employment with the BOARD, the Superintendent shall authorize absence with no loss of salary in accordance with the provisions of this section.
35.05 Reserve Duty
A Professional Staff Member who is a member of any reserve component of the armed forces of the United States is entitled to a leave from his/her duties without loss of pay for such time as they are in the military service on field training or active duty for periods not to exceed thirty-one days in any one calendar year.
ARTICLE THIRTY-SIX FUNERAL LEAVE
36.01 Entitlement to Leave
36.01.1	A Professional Staff Member shall be granted up to three (3) days of absence
without loss of regular pay, not chargeable against sick leave, in the event of a death in the immediate family, as defined in Subsection 33.01.1.
36.01.2 A Professional Staff Member will be granted one (1) day of absence without loss of regular pay, not chargeable against sick leave, to attend the funeral of other relatives, as defined in Subsection 33.01.2.
36.02 Application for Funeral Leave
The Professional Staff Member should notify his/her building Principal of his/her intent to use funeral leave and the number of days. Upon return from leave, the Professional Staff Member shall submit the application for leave.
36.03 Additional Funeral Leave
If the death of a member of the immediate family or other relative of a Professional Staff Member occurs at a distance greater than 150 A. A.A. miles from Dayton (one way), the Professional Staff Member may be allowed an additional absence of one (1) school day or if the distance is greater than 300 A.A.A. miles from Dayton (one way) the
61
Professional Staff Member may be allowed an additional absence of two (2) school days without loss of pay, not chargeable against sick leave for travel time.
ARTICLE THIRTY-SEVEN PROFESSIONAL LEAVE BENEFITS
37.01 Professional Leave Benefits
A professional Staff Member may be authorized to attend a professional conference (which shall not include ASSOCIATION or affiliated organizations sponsored activities of a non- instructional nature), as approved by the Superintendent or his/her designee, with no loss of pay.
37.01.1	A professional Staff Member may be authorized to be absent from assigned
teaching duties for up to two (2) days in any one school year, without loss of pay, for the purpose of visitation of other school buildings in the Dayton School System, subject to the prior approval of the professional Staff Member's Building Principal and the Building Principal in the building to be observed, if the absence from assigned teaching does not require use of a reserve teacher or require the payment of a stipend.
37.01.2 A professional Staff Member may be authorized to be absent from assigned teaching duties for up to two (2) days in any one school year, without loss of pay, for the purpose of visitation of other school buildings outside the Dayton School System, subject to the prior approval of the Superintendent, the Superintendent of Schools of tire school district in which the visitation is to take place, and the Building Principal in the building to be observed.
37.02 Application for Professional Leave Benefits
The professional Staff Member shall submit his/her application for professional leave for a conference at least twenty (20) calendar days in advance of the event.
37.03 Accrual of Professional Leave Benefits
Professional leave shall not accrue.
37.04 Professional Leave Benefits
Leave under this Section shall not be counted against perfect attendance.
ARTICLE THIRTY-EIGHT PAID SABBATICAL LEAVE
38.01 Entitlement to Sabbatical Leave
Any Professional Staff Member who has completed five (5) consecutive years as a member of the professional staff of the Day ton Public Schools may be granted a leave of
62
absence with pay for professional improvement for one (1) full semester or two (2) full semesters, but not longer than one (1) school year; provided however such pay will be a partial annual salary and will not be in excess of the difference between the reserve's pay and the Professional Staff Member's salary in accordance with 3319.131 of the Ohio Revised Code.
38.02 Application for Sabbatical Leave	■
Application for sabbatical leave for professional study, research, or professional improvement must be made in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the beginning of such requested leave. The application will go to Sabbatical Committee. The applicant will be notified by the ADMINISTRATION of the disposition within thirty (30) days of receipt of the request. The application for such leave of absence must be accompanied by an outline of the program of study or research to be pursued or the proposals for professional improvement.
38.02.1 The applicant will submit plans for the use of the sabbatical leave and will meet all other requirements as established by the Superintendent or his designee.
38.02.2 The decision of the Superintendent or his designee regarding the granting of sabbatical leaves shall be final.
38.02.3 It is intended that study and other proposals for professional improvement will include a full-time graduate load and will lead to the completion of a degree in the member's field or area of professional service, if such degree, either undergraduate or graduate, is not already held. For purposes of this leave, hill-time graduate load will be considered a minimum of 12 quarter hours per quarter or 8 semester hours per semester.
38.02.4 Application for leave for travel must outline in detail the scope and nature of the travel, make provision for an itinerary covering a minimum of four (4) months or eight (8) months, show clearly how such travel will contribute directly to improve classroom instruction or to improve professional services by the Professional Staff Member, and give reasons why such travel may not be accomplished when schools are not in session or when the Professional Staff Member is not on duty.
38.02.5 All Professional Staff Members will, as a condition of approval for leave of absence for professional growth, sign a written notarized contract to return to service in the Dayton Public Schools for a period of at least two (2) years immediately following satisfactory completion of the program for professional improvement within the specified period, or to refund to the BOARD all of the pay received from the BOARD, during the period of leave.
38.03 Accumulation of Sabbatical Leave
Sabbatical leave for professional improvement will not be granted to any Professional Staff Member more often than once for every five (5) consecutive years of service, nor will leave be granted a second time to the same individual when other members of the
63
staff in sufficient numbers to fill the quota for the period have filed a request for and are awaiting such leave.
38.04 Insurances While on Sabbatical
A Professional Staff Member on a sabbatical leave may continue all insurance programs outlined in Article Forty-Nine at their own expense.	■
38.05 Seniority While on Sabbatical
A Professional Staff Member will continue to accrue seniority while on a sabbatical leave.
38.06 Assignment Upon Return from Sabbatical Leave
A Professional Staff Member will be assigned to a comparable position to the one held before leave, for which (s)he is certified.
The refund requirement will not apply in case of death of the Professional Staff Member while on leave; in cases of illness or injury, the obligation will be deferred until the Professional Staff Member can resume employment. Refund of pay received on leave may also be required if the Professional Staff Member fails to complete satisfactorily the program of professional improvement. Obligations arising under this CONTRACT will be deferred if the Professional Staff Member is granted a leave of absence under other provisions of these rules and regulations immediately following a leave of absence for professional improvement, or if other types of leaves are granted prior to the completion of the required year of service, such deferment not to extend beyond the other types of leave plus one (1) year.
38.07 Employment While on Sabbatical Leave
A Professional Staff Member will not be granted sabbatical leave from the Dayton Public Schools if he or she will be otherwise employed during the time of such leave, unless such employment is approved as part of the sabbatical leave request.
38.08 Placement on Salary Schedule
A Professional Staff Member will be given credit on the salary schedule for a sabbatical leave of absence.
ARTICLE THIRTY-NINE ASSAULT LEAVE
39.01 Entitlement to Assault Leave
Any Professional Staff Member absent from regular duties because of a physical disability resulting from an assault on the Professional Staff Member which occurs in the course of BOARD employment shall be entitled to a paid assault leave provided the Professional Staff Member satisfies the condition set forth in Section 39.02.
64
39.02 Application for Assault Leave
39.02.1 The Professional Staff Member must furnish the Superintendent with a signed statement, describing in detail all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the assault, including but not limited to, the location and time of the assault, the identify of the assailant(s), if known, and the identity of all witnesses to the assault, if known.
39.02.2 The Professional Staff Member must submit to the Superintendent verification from an attending physician that the Professional Staff Member is disabled from performing normal duties, indicating the nature of the disability and its probable duration.
39.02.3 The Professional Staff Member must cooperate fully with the Superintendent and other public authority (authorities) in the prosecution of the assailant(s). In the event the Professional Staff Member requires representation by an attorney in the criminal prosecution of the assailant(s), the BOARD will provide the Professional Staff Member with an attorney selected by and paid by the BOARD to represent such Professional Staff Member in such matter. If other legal representation is required the Professional Staff Member, such may be provided by the BOARD as approved in advance by the Superintendent of Schools.
39.02.4 The Professional Staff Member shall be required to file for Workers’ Compensation.
39.02.5 It is the intent of this article to provide for assault leave for Professional Staff Members who do not physically initiate the assault on their person. In case of a dispute as to whether or not a Professional Staff Member has physically initiated an assault, and it is determined through either administrative hearing or court action that the Professional Staff Member did initiate the assault, the Professional Staff Member shall be required to either; (a) refund the compensation received as assault leave, or (b) charge the assault leave taken against the sick leave earned by the Professional Staff Member.
39.03 Accumulation of Assault Leave
The maximum number of days for which assault leave shall be payable to any Professional Staff Member shall be forty-five (45) days, less any COP paid to employees.
39.04 Insurances
All insurances will remain in effect while the Professional Staff Member is on assault leave.
39.05 Seniority
A Professional Staff Member shall continue to accrue seniority while on assault leave.
65
39.06 Assignment Upon Return from Assault Leave
A Professional Staff Member shall be placed in his/her same assignment upon return from assault leave.
39.07 Worker’s Compensation while on Assault Leave
The Professional Staff Member is entitled to all benefits under Article 64 - Continuation of Pay/Transitional Duty. The twelve (12) weeks of Continuation of Pay shall be congruent with the forty-five (45) days of assault leave.
39.08 Assault Leave Chargeability
Assault leave shall not be chargeable against sick leave.
ARTICLE FORTY UNPAID MEDICAL LEAVE
40.01 Entitlement to Unpaid Medical Leave
A Professional Staff Member shall be entitled to an unpaid medical leave due to personal illness, disability (including matemity/patemity), adoption leave or for serious illness in the immediate family. Nothing in this article shall limit a Professional Staff Member's rights under the federal Family Medical Leave Act.
40.02 Application
An application for medical leave without pay due to personal illness, disability (including matemity/patemity), adoption leave or for serious illness in the immediate family must be filed with the Superintendent's designee, accompanied by a statement from the attending physician or authorized practitioner stating the nature of the disability which prevents the Professional Staff Member from performing work and recommending that a leave of absence be granted. A Professional Staff Member shall have the option of utilizing sick leave days until such days are exhausted, or being placed on unpaid medical leave. Any request for extension of leave for personal illness will be accompanied by a physician's statement.
40.03 Accumulation of Leave
This unpaid medical leave will be approved on a school year basis and may be renewed, but in no event will extend for more than two (2) school years.
40.04 Insurances
40.04.1 The medical insurance program shall remain in effect for all Professional Staff Members entitled to coverage during any period when such Professional Staff Member is on unpaid medical leave up to ninety (90) days.
66
40.04.2 A Professional Staff Member on an unpaid medical leave may continue all insurance programs outlined in Article Forty-Nine at his/her own expense, after the expiration of insurance as stated in Section 49.06.
40.05 Seniority While on Unpaid Medical Leave
A Professional Staff Member will not have been considered to have broken seniority, .but for any leave which is longer than eighty (80) consecutive work days in any one school year, he/she will not accrue seniority.
40.06 Assignment Upon Return from Unpaid Medical Leave
40.0	6.1 A Professional Staff Member will be assigned to the same position if the leave was for less than a semester. A Professional Staff Member will be assigned to a similar position for which (s)he are certified if the leave exceeds a semester.
40.0	6.2 Return from unpaid medical leave prior to the stipulated expiration date shall be required when:
A.	The need for leave no longer exists or
B.	The ADMINISTRATION has a need to fill a vacancy, and the need for leave no longer exists.
40.06.3 When granted an unpaid medical leave based on a physician's statement, a medical release authorized by a physician shall be considered one of the conditions for returning to active duty.
40.07 Employment While on an Unpaid Medical Leave
A Professional Staff Member shall not be otherwise employed during unpaid medical leave unless such employment is approved as part of the leave request. Employment shall be grounds for termination of the leave and of employment.
40.08 Placement on Salary Schedule
A Professional Staff Member will not be given credit on the salary schedule for unpaid medical leave.
40.09 FMLA Entitlement
The employer will provide leave to eligible employees consistent with the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). The method for determining the 12 month period in which the FMLA entitlement occurs shall be the school year. In complying with the FMLA, the employer will adhere to the requirements of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, applicable federal and state laws and regulations.
67
ARTICLE FORTY-ONE UNPAID CHILD CARE LEAVE
41.01 Entitlement to Unpaid Child Care Leave
A leave without pay for the purposes of caring for a child of the Professional Staff Member will be granted after one (1) complete year of service in the Dayton Public School system or after a contract has been granted for a second year of service.
41.02 Application for Unpaid Child Care Leave
A request for an unpaid childcare leave must be made in writing to the Human Resources Department.
41.03 Accumulation of Unpaid Child Care Leave
Unpaid childcare leave may be granted for a maximum of four (4) consecutive semesters, including that portion of the semester in which the leave begins.
41.04 Insurances
A Professional Staff Member on unpaid childcare leave may continue all insurance programs outlined in Article Forty-Nine at his/her own expense.
41.05 Seniority
Any Professional Staff Member on unpaid childcare leave will not accrue seniority but will not be considered to have broken seniority by taking a leave for childcare.
41.06 Assignment Upon Return from Child Care Leave
A Professional Staff Member will be assigned to the same position if the leave was for less than ninety (90) consecutive work days. A Professional Staff Member will be assigned to a similar position for which (s)he is certified, if the leave is for ninety-one (91) work days or longer.
41.07 Employment While on Unpaid Child Care Leave
A Professional Staff Member shall not be otherwise employed during an unpaid childcare leave unless such employment is approved as part of the leave request. Employment shall be grounds for termination of leave and employment.
41.08 Placement on Salary Schedule
A Professional Staff Member will not be given credit on the salary schedule for unpaid child care leave.
68
ARTICLE FORTY-TWO UNPAID MILITARY LEAVE
42.01 Entitlement to Unpaid Military Leave
In accordance with the provision of 3319.14, Revised Code of Ohio, military leave will be granted to any regular contract Professional Staff Member who is drafted or recalled to active duty with any branch of the Armed Services of the United States.
42.02 Application
A Professional Staff Member who is drafted or recalled to active duty must submit a copy of the orders to the Human Resources Department.
42.03 Insurances
A Professional Staff Member on an unpaid military leave shall have all insurances as provided in Article Forty-Nine.
42.04 Seniority
A Professional Staff Member on an unpaid military leave shall not accrue seniority but will not be considered to have broken seniority.
42.05 Assignment Upon Return from Military Leave
A Professional Staff Member returning from military service will be returned to a position comparable to that held before leave.
42.06 Termination of Military Leave
Voluntary re-enlistment immediately terminates military leave granted by the BOARD.
42.07 Placement on the Salary Schedule
A Professional Staff Member on an unpaid military leave will be given full credit on the salary schedule for such service if activated.
ARTICLE FORTY-THREE
LEAVE FOR SERVICE IN SPECIAL GOVERNMENTAL ASSIGNMENTS
43.01 Entitlement to Leave for Special Governmental Assignments
43.01.1 An unpaid leave for service in special governmental assignments will be granted after two (2) complete years of service in the Dayton City Schools or after a contract has been granted for a third year of service.
43.01.2 Such leave will be granted for such purposes as service in the Peace Corps or Action Corps, exchange teaching abroad under federal auspices, overseas
69
teaching of dependents of military personnel, or other such assignments deemed of special value to the government or to the school system and will be granted at the discretion of the Superintendent.
43.01.3 In cases in which military or governmental service requires special absence from the school district of considerable duration, a leave for more than two (2) years will be granted at the discretion of the Superintendent.
43.01.4 A leave for professional study will be granted after completion of two (2) complete years of service in the Dayton City Schools or after a contract has been granted for a third year of service.
43.02 Application
A Professional Staff Member shall submit a request in writing for the leave and shall attach documentation of the special government assignment.
43.03 Insurances
A Professional Staff Member on a leave for special assignment may continue all insurance programs outlined in Article Forty-Nine, at his/her own expense.
43.04 Seniority
A Professional Staff Member on an unpaid leave for special government assignment will not accrue seniority but will not be considered to have broken seniority.
43.05 Assignment Upon Return from Leave for Special Government Assignment
A Professional Staff Member returning from a leave for special government assignment shall be assigned to a comparable position held before the leave for which (s)he is certified.
43.06 Employment While on Special Government Assignment Leave
The Professional Staff Member is expected to be employed on this leave.
43.07 Placement on the Salary Schedule
Up to two (2) years service credit on the salary schedule will be granted to the employee on leave for service in special governmental assignment, as determined by the Superintendent.
70
T
ARTICLE FORTY-FOUR LEAVE FOR NATIONAL AND STATE OFFICERS OF ASSOCIATION, POLITICAL LEAVE FOR PROFESSION AL IMPROVEMENT THROUGH TRAVEL, PROFESSIONAL STUDY OR COMMUNITY SCHOOL
44.01 Entitlement to Leave for National and State Officers of ASSOCIATION, Travel, or Professional Study
44.01.1 A leave for professional improvement through travel will be granted to a Professional Staff Member holding a continuing contract, or who has met the requirements for continuing contract status.
44.01.2 A leave without pay in order to run for, or serve in, public office will be granted for the term of the office.
44.01.3 Upon request of the ASSOCIATION, a Professional Staff Member elected to a state or national office of an affiliated professional organization will be granted a leave for the term of the office.
44.01.4 A leave for professional study will be granted after completion of two (2) complete years of service in the Dayton City Schools or after a contract has been granted for a third year of service.
44.01.5 The leave will be granted only for full-time graduate study and earned credits will be filed upon return to the Dayton System. For purposes of this leave, full-time study will be considered a minimum of 12 quarter hours per quarter or 8 semester hours per semester.
44.02 Application
Any leave listed in this article must be applied for in writing to the Human Resources Department with proof of office. The written request for such travel leave must include an itinerary and an outline relating it to professional growth.
44.03 Accumulation
44.03.1 A political leave shall be granted for the term of the office.
44.03.2 Professional improvement through travel leave will be for one (1) school year, but no longer than a school year.
44.03.3 Leave for professional study will be granted only in units of full semesters or full years. Such leave is not to exceed two (2) years.
44.04 Insurance
A Professional Staff Member on leave in this article may continue all insurance programs outlined in Article Forty-Nine, at his/her own expense.
71
44.05 Seniority
A Professional Staff Member on a leave in this article will not accrue seniority, but will not be considered to have broken seniority.
44.06 Assignment Upon Return from Leave
A Professional Staff Member returning from a leave shall be assigned to a comparable position held before the leave for which they are certified.
44.07 Employment While on Leave
A Professional Staff Member on any leave under this section will be employed for political or ASSOCIATION leave in this article. For any other leave they may have employment if it is included in the original request for leave and approved.
44.08 Placement on Salary Schedule
A Professional Staff Member will not be given credit on the salary schedule for a leave granted under this Article.
44.09 Unpaid Leave for Service in a Community School
44.09.1 In accordance with 3314.10 of the Revised Code of Ohio, leave for service in a community school shall be granted to any professional staff member who is employed by a community school located within the boundaries of Dayton Public Schools.
44.09.2 A professional staff member who applies and is employed in a community school must submit a request for the leave in writing, to the Human Resources Department. The request must be accompanied by a letter verifying employment, from the community school.
44.09.3 In accordance with 3314 of the Revised Code of Ohio, insurance provided to all bargaining unit members will be provided to those who are granted this leave.
44.09.4 A professional staff member on this leave shall not accrue seniority but will not be considered to have broken seniority.
44.09.5 A professional staff member returning from this leave will be returned to a position for which they are certified.
44.09.6 When the professional staff member terminates leave with the community school, the professional staff member will have to return to Dayton Public Schools. Failure to return to Dayton Public Schools will result in this leave being terminated.
44.09.7 A professional staff member will be given credit on salary schedule for all years taught in a community school.
72
ARTICLE FORTY-FIVE FORMAL EVALUATION OF PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS AND DOCUMENTATION
45.01 Evaluation Process
45.01.1 Framework Goal	■
The Professional Staff Member evaluation model developed by the accountability committee of the Dayton Public School District and the Dayton Education Association is a differentiated model that provides Professional Staff Members at all career stages with developmentally appropriate support. The staff evaluation model is patterned after the Pathwise Classroom Observation System, which is built on a framework of essential teaching skills as defined by professional educators* The Pathwise framework provides the instructional staff a common language to understand the skills necessary for the achievement of the district's highest goal: to improve student achievement.
45.01.2 System Overview
The Pathwise system is grounded in nineteen. (19) essential teaching criteria and is based on an active constructivist view of teaching and learning in which a student's life experiences and prior knowledge are regarded as important instructional resources. This idea suggests that a Professional Staff Member is not the sole source of knowledge; that students also participate in the generation and sharing of understanding. The Professional Staff Member and students together become a learning community in which everyone's contributions are valued.
The Professional Staff Member evaluation model is designed to give all Professional Staff Members, regardless of their styles of teaching, an opportunity to demonstrate their abilities naturally, in a variety of ways. The evaluation model is differentiated in the following ways:
-	Entry Year
-	Selected Professional Development
-	Strategic Professional Development
45.02 Evaluator
All evaluations will be done by an administrator, according to O.R.C. 4117.
45.03 Level 1 - Entry Year
45.03.1 Summary of Level 1
The entry year program is designed to meet the needs of the novice Professional Staff Members in their first years of practice as well as veteran Professional Staff Members who are new to the Dayton Public Schools. The entry year program is structured specifically around the four domains and nineteen components of the Pathwise Classroom Observation System.
73
Building administrators are trained to systematically observe and rate teaching performance using the nineteen components as their primary evaluation method.
Ratings of Professional Staff Member performance in the entry year phase will be based on rubrics developed for unsatisfactory, basic, proficient, and distinguished performance in each of the nineteen components of the Pathwise framework. It is likely that individual Professional Staff Members will be performing at different levels of proficiency across the nineteen components.
An unsatisfactory rating on any component should alert the Professional Staff Member that serious attention must be given to improved performance in that area. After giving an unsatisfactory rating, evaluators are obligated to offer formative assistance aimed at helping the Professional Staff Member improve his or her performance in the area or areas of weakness. For example, administrators should make clear the specific recommendations regarding improvements and the means by which the Professional Staff Member may obtain assistance in making such improvements.
45.03.2 Level I - Entry Year: Purpose
The purpose of the assessment system is to assess and enhance the professional competency of novice and new-to-the-district Professional Staff Members by employing the nineteen performance standards of the Pathwise Classroom Observation System.
45.03.3 Eligibility
Beginning Professional Staff Members without prior teaching experience will participate in the entry year program for the first three (3) years of their employment with the Dayton Public Schools.
Veteran Professional Staff Members who are new employees to the Dayton Public Schools will participate in the entry year program for the first two (2) years of their employment with the Dayton Public Schools.
Professional Staff Members returning from an extended absence of three (3) or more years will participate in the entry year program for the first year of their re-employment with the Dayton Public Schools.
45.03.4 Assessment Requirements
The entry year evaluation model is based on three (3) evaluations of the entry year candidate: two (2) formative and one (1) summative.
45.03.4.1 Assessments
Two (2) assessments based on classroom observations will be complete within a supervisory cycle that includes pre-and postobservation conferences of at least twenty (20) minutes in length and classroom observations of at least thirty (30) minutes in length. The Professional Staff Member has the opportunity to reflect on and respond to the evaluator's summary statements and recommendations.
74
Professional Staff Members participating in the entry year program should:
1.	Expect their evaluators to request copies of their lesson plans for the instructional period to be observed;
2.	Familiarize themselves with the domains and criteria of the Pathwise Classroom Observation System;	'
3.	Familiarize themselves with the pre-observation interview form prior to meeting with their evaluators;
4.	Familiarize themselves with the rubric for the nineteen Pathwise criteria.
45.03.4.2 Summative Assessment
The third assessment, which constitutes the final annual evaluation report, is based on the evaluator's prior classroom visitations as well as his/her holistic and summative assessment of the Professional Staff Member's professional performance. The Professional Staff Member has the opportunity to reflect on and respond to the evaluator's summary statements and recommendations. Additional classroom observations may be scheduled at the request of the classroom Professional Staff Member or at the discretion of the evaluator. Each observation will be recorded using the clinical observation form.
The primary foci of the two classroom observations are the components of domains B and C. Evaluators, however, will also use the pre- and post-observation conferences to collect and record evidence relating to domains A and D from the Pathwise model. Once completed, the final evaluation report will be placed in the Professional Staff Member's personnel file.
45.03.4.3 Deadlines
1.	First observation - formative - November 1st
2.	Second observation - formative - March 1st
3.	Final evaluation report - summative - March 15th.
45.03.5	Additional Initiations of Level 1 Evaluations
A Level 1 evaluation may be initiated by ADMINISTRATION outside of the above set schedules with documented just cause.
45.04 Level 2
45.04.1	Summary of Level 2
Professional Staff Members having completed the initial entry year process will make the decision as to selected or strategic professional development at three-year intervals. A rotating schedule based on the alphabetical order of last names shall be used:
75
2002-2003: P-Z
2003-2004: A-G
2004-2005: H-0
2005 - 2006: P-Z
A Professional Staff Member's choice of selected professional development or strategic professional development is reflective of his or her interests and needs at the time. Neither Professional Staff Member nor evaluator should regard one Level 2 option as superior to the other.
45.04.2 Selected Professional Development
Professional Staff Members who have met the requirements of the entry year program may continue to focus their professional growth activities and annual assessment on one or more of the nineteen components of professional practice of the Pathwise framework. Professional Staff Members selecting to engage in the selected professional development process will identify one to three components from the frame work and then write personal performance goals relative to the identified components). Personal performance goals must include activities and strategies to be used and the specific appropriate indicators used to measure success.
45.04.3 Strategic Professional Development
Professional Staff Members who have met the requirements of the entry year program may choose to pursue a professional development project that involves the acquisition of knowledge in a specific area that may transcend the Pathwise framework. Professional Staff Members selecting to engage in the strategic professional development process will work with their evaluator(s) throughout the project. Evaluators will provide collegial support and collaborate in writing and end-of-project summary. For example, a Professional Staff Member may choose to pursue national board certification, and the strategic professional development option could be based on his/her portfolio preparation.
45.04.4 Eligibility
Any classroom Professional Staff Member who has successfully completed the initial entry year process and has reached mutual agreement with his or her evaluator to participate in the Level II processes is eligible. Evaluators with concerns regarding a Professional Staff Member's professional performance may require the Professional Staff Member to participate in selected professional development, including the use of the classroom observation scoring rubric.
45.04.5 Deadlines
October 1st of the year in which goals are to be pursued for the planning conference.
March 1st - Assessment Conference
April 10th - Final written assessment due to evaluator
76
May 15th - Final Conference
45.04.6 Selected Professional Development: Purpose and Process
The purpose of the selected professional development model is to support and assess veteran practitioners relative to their success in pursuing professional growth. Selected professional development programs will focus on one to three components selected from the Pathwise Classroom Observation System and in accordance with the Professional Staff Member's Individual Professional Development Plan (IPDP).
Professional Staff Members choosing the selected professional development assessment model will be responsible for developing one (1) to three (3) professional performance goals, mutually agreeable to the Professional Staff Member and his or her evaluator.
Selected professional development goals must be based on the Pathwise framework and will include a description of relevant strategies, timelines, and results for each goal. These goals, strategies, timelines and results will constitute the Professional Staff Member's selected professional development performance plan.
The Professional Staff Member and evaluator will have a planning conference and an assessment conference. The purpose of the planning conference is for the Professional Staff Member and evaluator to reach agreement on the performance goals, strategies, timelines and results.
The purpose of the assessment conference is to provide the context in which the Professional Staff Member and evaluator meet to discuss the extent to which the results have or have not been achieved. The evaluator is responsible for writing a narrative assessment regarding the Professional Staff Member's success in achieving the stated results. The Professional Staff Member has the opportunity to reflect on and respond to the evaluator's summary statements and recommendations.
Teaching staff members participating in the selected professional development model may choose to have a formal observation by the evaluator using the (initial) entry year model modified to exclude the rubric rating scale (unsatisfactory through distinguished) for each component of the four (4) domains.
45.04.7 Strategic Professional Development: Purpose and Process
The purpose of the strategic professional development evaluation models is to support and assess veteran practitioners relative to their success in pursuing professional growth. Strategic professional development programs should be designed to allow the Professional Staff Member to carry out an individualized, yet collaboratively planned project for professional growth in accordance with the Professional Staff Member's Individual Professional Development Plan (IDPD).
Any veteran Professional Staff Member who has successfully completed the Level 1 entry year process and has the mutual consent of his or her evaluator may participate in the strategic professional development assessment model.
77
Professional Staff Members may, with the permission of the evaluator, pursue a strategic professional development project while being required to focus on a selected professional development performance goal.
The strategic professional development model represents a high form of Professional Staff Member assessment consistent with state and national trends in the professionalization of teaching. It is specifically designed to provide veteran practitioners with the autonomy to pursue professional growth through a wide variety of activities ranging from action research to national board certification.
The evaluation of a strategic professional development project is a collegial process in which Professional Staff Members and evaluators jointly assess the progress made toward the accomplishment of the project's stated objective(s). The final evaluation should be limited to the space provided on the strategic professional development form. A Professional Staff Member may provide artifactual evidence to support progress made.
In order to qualify, the proposed project must involve the participating Professional Staff Members in the process of planned inquiry. In other words, the project must attempt to answer a question or solve a problem that requires Professional Staff Members to conduct an exploration of relevant information from the field of interest.
Participating Professional Staff Members are required to develop a final product that represents the results of their efforts that may go beyond a single school year. The final product may take a number of forms depending on the nature of the exploration conducted.
Finally, the Professional Staff Member is required to disseminate the results of his/her project. Dissemination may take many forms, but must provide a vehicle for the wider sharing of the Professional Staff Member's efforts.
Dissemination may take the form of oral, written, electronic or other forms of communication.
Teaching staff members participating in the selected professional development model may choose to have a formal observation by the evaluator using the entry year model modified to exclude the rubric rating scale (unsatisfactory through distinguished) for each component of the four (4) domains.
45.05 Deficiencies
Should the ADMINISTRATION feel that the performance of a Professional Staff Member as evidenced in an evaluation could cause the administrator to recommend nonrenewal or termination, the following steps shall be taken:
1.	The name of any Professional Staff Member should be submitted to the ASSOCIATION by December 1st.
2.	A conference will be held with the Superintendent's designee, Executive Principal, Principal, Professional Staff Member and his/her representative within thirty (30) days of being notified of the possibility of termination or non-renewal. At this
78
conference, the documented deficiencies of the Professional Staff Member will be discussed. A plan of improvement will be developed at this conference.
3.	A non-probationary Professional Staff Member will be given one (1) additional school year to improve on his/her deficiencies. Failure to improve shall be just cause for non-renewal or termination. The Professional Staff Member will be given notice of contract termination on or before April 30th.	<
45.06 Peer Assistance
Peer assistance, as used in this section, shall include, but not be limited to, Resource Professional Staff Members and may be used for the improvement of instruction, to provide classroom demonstration, and other support as needed. Peer assistance shall only be used with the consent of all Professional Staff Members involved. Any feedback, discussion, recommendations or the like may be exchanged only between the Professional Staff Member being assisted and the Professional Staff Member(s) providing the assistance. This information may not be used in any proceeding involving a bargaining unit member, except by mutual consent of the bargaining unit members involved.
45.07 Supersedes the Law
The evaluation provisions of this article supersede the evaluation provisions of ORC 3319.111.
ARTICLE FORTY-SIX JUST CAUSE/TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS/NON-RENEWAL OF CONTRACTS
46.01 Termination of Continuing Contract or Limited Contract During Its Term
46.01.1	The continuing contract of a Professional Staff Member or the limited contract
of a Professional Staff Member during its term may be terminated by the BOARD for gross inefficiency or immorality, for willful and persistent violation of reasonable regulations, or for other good and just cause. All procedures in Article Forty-Six must be followed before a decision to terminate for performance is made. The procedures the BOARD must follow in terminating a contract of a teaching Professional Staff Member are outlined in the Ohio Revised Code, Section 3319.16 and Article Forty-Eight.
46.01.2 Any Professional Staff Member who has been notified of intent to dismiss under this section must be informed of his/her right to counsel or ASSOCIATION assistance and representation, if desired. A conference will be held with the Professional Staff Member and his/her representative regarding the ADMINISTRATION’S pending action.
79
46.02 Non-Renewal of Non-Probationary Limited Contract
46.02.1 Just Cause
No Professional Staff Member shall be adversely evaluated, disciplined, nonrenewed or reduced in rank or compensation without just cause.
46.02.2 Jurisdiction
The provisions of this article are intended to supersede the provisions of Ohio Revised Code Sections 3319.11 and 3319.111.
46.02.3 Non-renewal of Limited Contract at the End of Its Term
The BOARD will provide reasons for non-renewal to a Professional Staff Member whose contact is non-renewed during the probationary period.
When a problem exists which could result in the non-renewal of a Professional Staff Member’s employment for cause at the end of the term of a limited contract, the following procedure shall apply:
A final conference with the Professional Staff Member will be held in the office of the Executive Director of Human Resources no later than mid-April of the current CONTRACT year. The Professional Staff Member will be given notice of contract non-renewal on or before April 30th. This notification will be given in lieu of the notice of intention not to reemploy referred to in Section 3319.11, Ohio Revised Code.
46.03 Non-Renewal of Probationary Limited Contract
Professional Staff Members on a limited contract shall be afforded just cause rights for non-renewal in the third year of employment.
The first two (2) years of employment of a professional staff member will be considered a probationary period. During this probationary period, the performance of the professional staff member will be assessed under the Level 1 evaluation as described in Article 45 of this agreement.
Just cause rights, in terms of non-renewal do not apply to professional staff members during the probationary period. The limited contract of a probationary Professional Staff Member may be non-renewed at the end of its term for any non-discriminatory reason at the discretion of die Board of Education.
A final conference with the Professional Staff Member will be held with the Executive director of Human Resources when a problem exists which could result in the nonrenewal of a probationary Professional Staff Member. This conference will take place no later than April 15 th of the current Contract year. The probationary Professional Staff Member will be given notice of contract non-renewal on or before April 30th. This notification will be given in lieu of the notice of intention not to reemploy referred to in section 3319.11, Ohio Revised Code
80
46.04 Supplemental Contracts
46.04.1 The provisions of this section are intended by the parties to replace the statutory procedures for non-renewal of supplemental contracts set out in Section 3319.11, Ohio Revised Code.
46.04.2 Supplemental contracts shall terminate automatically in accordance with their terms, without notification from the BOARD.	•
46.04.3 Supplemental positions held by Professional Staff Members during the current school year shall be posted only if a vacancy occurs in the position.
46.05 Athletic Supplemental Contracts
The following procedures are now in effect and open positions will be filled using this process.
46.05.1 Procedures for selection of individuals to hold Athletic Supplemental Contracts:
A.	The district Athletic Office requests a position posting from the Human Resources Department. If a vacancy occurs after the start of the season, the vacancy has to be posted for five (5) days.
B.	The Human Resources Department posts district wide the open positions for not less than ten days. If a vacancy occurs after the season has started, the posting will be for five days.
C.	Applicants respond in writing through a letter of interest and a resume to the Human Resources Department. Applicants are required to submit proof of CPR, proof of all current certificates, and credentials required for coaching.
D.	The Human Resources Department reviews the applications to determine those applicants that are certified and forwards those names to the District Athletic Office.
E.	The district Athletic Office reviews applications and submits a list of qualified applicants to the schools.
F.	The school level Selection Committee will interview potential candidates.
G.	Members of the Selection Committee shall include but not be limited to:
-	Building Principal or Designee
-	Building Athletic Director
-	DEA representative
-	Others as appointed by the Principal
H.	The Selection Committee shall consider qualified Professional Staff Members in the district. With all things being substantially equal, preference will be given to the qualified Professional Staff Member in the building.
81
I.	If a Professional Staff Member is not selected for the position, the Professional Staff Member may request written reasons for the denial.
J.	If a Professional Staff Member is not selected or no Professional Staff
Member applies within the posting timeline, the Selection Committee will consider the following criteria for filling the athletic supplemental position:	.
1)	Qualified certificated individuals outside the district.
2)	Qualified non-certificated individuals.
46.05.2 Athletic Supplemental Contract Positions to be posted annually:
A.	All athletic supplemental positions held by a Professional Staff Member in the district will be posted annually only if a vacancy occurs in the position.
B.	All athletic supplemental positions held by non-Professional Staff Members in the district will be posted annually.
46.05.3 In order to be hired in the same coaching position for the following school year, the Professional Staff Member must have a satisfactory coaching evaluation. No licensed or certificated Professional Staff Member holding a coaching position shall be evaluated or disciplined without just cause.
46.05.4 The parties shall establish an evaluation instrument to be incorporated into the contract. The parties will appoint a joint committee to develop an evaluation by consensus. Both sides will work in good faith to develop the instrument.
The instrument will be adopted and implemented by the end of October, 2003. Coaches may be evaluated by the principal, assistant principal, the District’s athletic director or his designee who has an administrative position and is empowered to perform evaluations.
ARTICLE FORTY-SEVEN
FITNESS FOR DUTY-MEDICAL EXAMINATION
47.01 Right to Request Medical Examination
In order to promote a safe environment, to assure the public trust, and to promote the learning process of children and young people, the BOARD requires Professional Staff Members to report for work and be physically and mentally able to perform their duties. Of particular importance is for a Professional Staff Member’s job performance not to be impaired by the use or abuse of any drug, medication, or alcohol, as defined below. Severe emotional crises may also render a Professional Staff Member unable to perform his or her job.
When the BOARD and/or the ADMINISTRATION feels that a Professional Staff Member is unfit for duty, they may request a mental/physical examination using the procedures in Section 47.02.
82
r
47.02 Physical/Mental Examinations Procedure
47.0	2.1 The building principal or other building administrator is responsible to make a preliminary decision as to the employee’s fitness for duty and report it to the Executive Director of Human Resources. Any observed deficiencies in employee performance or behavior is to be documented. Documentation must be directly related to the Professional Staff Member’s inability to satisfactorily perform the work duties.
The Executive Director of Human Resources will make the decision as to the need for a physical/mental examination to be conducted.
Employee performance or behavior issues related to possible psychological, mental, or chemical dependency will first be referred to the internal Employee Assistance Program (EAP) coordinator for an assessment. Other issues will be referred to a Physician selected by the Board at the Board’s expense.
The BOARD will send a letter to the Professional Staff Member stating the reasons for their request for mental/physical examination.
47.0	2.2 Once the Professional Staff Member receives the letter, he/she has two options.
A.	Accept the recommendation of the Executive Director of Human Resources as outlined in the above letter, or
B.	The Professional Staff Member may select a physical examination to be done by his/her personal physician with the expenses paid by the Professional Staff Member. Such physician shall provide the Superintendent with a report setting forth sufficient information so that the Superintendent can determine an administrative course of action.
47.02.3 If the Professional Staff Member elects to be examined by his/her personal physician, he/she submits the physician’s report to the Board. After review of the report from the Professional Staff Member’s physician, the BOARD may require the Professional Staff Member to be examined by a physician designated by the ADMINISTRATION. The expense of such physician shall be paid by the BOARD. In the event there is disagreement between the report submitted by the physician selected by the Professional Staff Member and the physician designated by the ADMINISTRATION, the matter shall be submitted to a third physician who shall be selected by the other two physicians. The findings and conclusions of the third will decide the matter. The Professional Staff Member and the BOARD shall share equally the fees and expenses of the third physician.
47.02.4 All reports shall be confidential. The physician will not release the results of the medical examination without the approval of the Professional Staff Member.
47.02.5 A Professional Staff Member determined to be unfit for duty will be referred to the Employee Assistance Program or other appropriate health care providers for treatment
83
A condition of continued employment is that the Professional Staff Member adhere to all treatment recommendations of the Employee Assistance Program or other professional health care providers.
The Professional Staff Member will not be returned to work until the professional health care provider has indicated that the Professional Staff Member is again fit for duty.	.
47.03 Required Health Examinations or Vaccinations
Opportunity for health examinations or vaccinations required by the State of Ohio or required locally must be provided without cost to the Professional Staff Member. If a Professional Staff Member elects to have a private examination or vaccinations, the Professional Staff Member will pay the cost and provide a documented statement of satisfactory completion of the required examination or vaccinations.
ARTICLE FORTY-EIGHT DISCIPLINE OF PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
48.01 Informal Warning
First offenses which are not extreme cases shall be disposed of by an informal notice to the employee. Such informal notice shall not be recorded in the employee's personnel file.
48.02 Progressive Discipline
Formal disciplinary action shall be taken only for just cause and shall not exceed the gravity of the employee's offense, including but not limited to the repetition of an action without progressing to the next step.
-	First Step: Written reprimand(s);
-	Second Step: Suspension(s) with or without pay;
-	Third Step: Discharge (Only the BOARD shall have the authority to discharge an employee, and such discharge shall be implemented in compliance with the provisions of Article Forty-Five of the CONTRACT.)
48.03 Due Process Procedure
48.03.1 Except in extreme cases requiring immediate suspension, no employee shall be disciplined without first having been given due process in accordance with the following procedure:
A.	A written notice setting forth the allegations which, if substantiated, could result in disciplinary action, shall be provided by the BOARD by certified mail or by hand delivery. Said notice shall include the time and place of a hearing to discuss said allegations.
84
B.	The hearing to discuss the allegations shall be attended by the Professional Staff Member, the ASSOCIATION representative, and the BOARD'S representative(s). Said hearing shall be held no sooner than three (3) days nor later than ten (10) days following the receipt of the notice of allegations or at the time and place mutually agreed upon by the parties.
C.	The Professional Staff Member and the ASSOCIATION President shall be notified within ten (10) work days by certified mail or by hand delivery of the disposition of the matter. If a determination has been made to take disciplinary action, the notice of disposition shall include the disciplinary action to be taken and the reason(s) for said action.
48.03.2 In extreme cases requiring immediate suspension, the written notice of allegations shall be presented to the employee within twenty-four (24) hours following the suspension; and the conference shall be held as expeditiously as possible.
48.04 Confidentiality
The discipline of an employee shall be imposed in private and all events and communications related thereto shall remain confidential to the extent permitted by law.
ARTICLE FORTY-NINE INSURANCE
49.01 Medical and Dental Enrollment
A Medical Insurance Program shall be available in accordance with the provisions of this article for all Professional Staff Members covered by this CONTRACT who complete the required applications for such insurance and transmit such applications to the Treasurer of the BOARD during the required enrollment period. Insurance coverage is not automatic.
Appropriate information and application forms will be provided to all new Professional Staff Members at the time of employment. If the date of employment is later than the open enrollment period, required insurance forms shall be filed with the office of the Treasurer within five (5) work days of receipt. Forms that are not returned in five (5) work days will result in coverage being delayed until the first day of the month after they are received. This penalty for delay shall be clearly noted to the new employee. Forms not filed within thirty (30) days of commencement of employment coverage will not be available until the next open enrollment period.
85
49.02 Specific Coverage
Humana PPO
COVERED SERVICE Network Plan I
Non Network
Network Plan II
Routine & Preventative
1.	Office Visit	$10 co-pay/visit	75% R&C after deductible
2.	Routine Physicals	$10 co-pay/visit	Not Covered
o J.	Well child care	$10 co-pay/visit	75% R&C after deductible
4.	Immunizations	$10 co-pay/visit	75% R&C after deductible
5.	Consultations	$10 co-pay/visit	75% R&C after deductible
6.	Routine Pap test		
	Mammograms	$10 co-pay/visit	75% R&C after deductible
Diagnostic Lab &
X-Ray Exam	100% coverage	75% R&C after deductible
Hospital ER Services	$25 co-pay -Hosp. ER	$25 co-pay-Hosp. ER
Urgent Care Facility	$10 co-pay	75% R&C after deductible
$5 co-pay/visit $5 co-pay/visit $5 co-pay/visit $5 co-pay/visit $5 co-pay/visit
$5 co-pay/visit
Same as Plan I
Prescription Drug $7.00 generic drugs on formulary card	25% with minimum of $ 10.00 and Maximum of
$30.00 for name brand drugs on formulary Max. of $40.00 for name brand drugs not on formulary (open physician edit)
Same as Plan I
Same as Plan I
$7 co-pay generic required
Hospital Services (Inpatient)
Room and board -semi-private room, meals, general nursing, special duty
75% R&C after deductible
(Prior Plan Approval required)
Same as Plan I
100% coverage
(Prior Plan Approval required)
nursing, ancillary
services, operating room anesthesia supplies diagnostic/therapeutic x-ray services, lab tests, radiation therapy, drugs & medications, special care units, chemotherapy and renal dialysis.
Physician & Surgeon
Services (In-Hospital)
86
Surgeon, anesthesiologist, 100% coverage 75% R&C after deductible Same as Plan I radiologist, pathologist, specialist, etc.
Radiation, cobalt and radioisotope therapy,	100% coverage	75% R&C after deductible Same as Plan I
therapeutic x-ray services, ancillary, services, surgery, chemotherapy and renal dialysis as medically necessary.
Human Organ Transplant
Inpatient	80% coverage	Not covered	Same as Plan I
Skilled Nursing Facility Care	90% R&C after	75% R&C after deductible Same as Plan I deductible to 365 days in lieu of hospitalization (Prior Plan Approval required)
Home Health Services 100% coverage 75% R&C after	Same as Plan I
	deductible in lieu of (Prior Plan	hospitalization (Prior Plan Approval required)	Approval required)
Mental Health/Chemical Dependency
(Inpatient MH/CD)	80% coverage	60% R&C after deductible Same as Plan 1 $10,000 maximum per year maximum 30 days per calendar year (Prior Plan Approval required)
(Outpatient MH/CD)	$ 10 per visit	50% R&C after deductible Same as Plan I $5,000 maximum per year Combined maximum of 45 group or individual visits per calendar year To receive in-panel MH/CD benefits, all care must be authorized or provided by United Behavioral Services Appliances and Durable
Medical Equipment	80% coverage	50% R&C after deductible Same as Plan I (Requires Prior Plan Approval)
Allergy/Acne Treatment	80% coverage	75% R&C after deductible Same as Plan I
Allergy Testing	80% coverage	75% R&C after deductible Same as Plan I
87
Physical Therapy
(out-patient) 80% coverage 50% R&C after deductible Same as Plan I Maximum 30 visits per year
Chiropractic Services	Not covered	75% R&C after deductible Same as Plan I
Deductibles	No annual deductible Out-of-panel benefit levels Same as Plan I will apply to any	are subject to an annual in-panel services.	deductible of $200/person Annual out-of-	or $400/family. Annual pocket maximum is	out-of-pocket or deductible $750/person or	is $2000/ person or $4000/family $1500/family maximum Expenses associated (Expenses associated	Same as Plan I with Mental Health	with Mental Health & & Chemical	Chemical Dependency Dependency treatment treatment do not apply do not apply to	to maximum out-of maximum out-of-	pocket limits.) pocket limits.
49.03 Dental Benefits
The dental insurance policy shall provide for dental care expenses which are not the result of occupational accident. Covered dental expenses are the reasonable and customary charges for necessary dental treatment as follows:
Type I - Preventative: One hundred percent (100%) coverage (dental examination, scaling and cleaning of teeth, dental X-rays, fluoride treatments, space maintainers)
Type II - Basic eighty percent/twenty percent (80%/20%) co-insurance (basic restorative, oral surgery, anesthesia, periodontics, endodontics)
Type III - major restorative: Fifty percent/fifty percent (50%/50%) coinsurance (major restorative, gold inlay, crowns, prosthodontics)
Type IV - Orthodontia: Fifty percent/fifty percent (50%/50%) co-insurance
Type II and III benefits are subject to a $25.00 deductible per person, per year, and a calendar year maximum of $1,500 benefits per person. Type IV benefits are subject to a $5,000 lifetime maximum per person.
Coverage for dental prescriptions shall be provided by the BOARD. The plan shall be decided by the BOARD.
49.04 Life Insurance
Life insurance shall be provided in an amount of $50,000.
88
Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance shall be provided in the amount of $50,000.
Professional Staff Members may buy additional insurance at their own expense, at the BOARD'S rate. Such payment for additional insurance shall be by payroll deduction.
49.05 Premium Payments
49.05.1 The BOARD and the full-time Professional Staff Member contribution to the monthly premium for medical insurance shall be: 15% paid by the Professional Staff Member, 85% paid by the BOARD up to a cap of:
CAPS	Plan I	Plan	II
Single:	$244.00 per month 9-1-2003	$274	per	month
Family:	$622.00 per month 9-1-2003	$678	per	month
Any amount over the cap will be paid by the Professional Staff Member, subject to Subsection 49.09.4.
49.05.2 The BOARD shall pay 90% of dental insurance.
49.05.3 The BOARD shall pay 100% of the life insurance premium.
For purposes of this article only, a "part-time Professional Staff Member” is a Professional Staff Member employed on a continuous basis by the BOARD, who performs services for which compensation is paid during each week after employment commences or after such Professional Staff Member is placed under contract with the BOARD on a regular basis with the number of hours of service to be performed scheduled on a regular and recurring basis. It is understood that any individual employed by the BOARD excluded from the definition of a Professional Staff Member, pursuant to Subsection 1.02.2 of this CONTRACT, and any individual employed by the BOARD on an "on call" basis is not considered a regular part-time employee. Medical insurance shall be provided to part time Professional Staff Members working less than thirty (30) hours per week and at least thirty-six (36) weeks per year or who have an annual contract with the BOARD in accordance with the following schedule:
Number of hours	Portion of total premium	Portion of total premium
regularly scheduled	cost for medical and	cost for medical and
to work	dental insurance to be	dental insurance to be
At least 10, but less	paid by BOARD	paid by Professional Staff Member
than 15 At least 15, but less	1/3	2/3
than 20 At least 20, but less	1/2	1/2
than 25 At least 25, but less	2/3	1/3
than 30	5/6	1/6
89
The maximum contribution by the BOARD as set out above will be applied to the current premium or the limits set forth below, whichever is less.
49.06 Coverage While on Leave
The medical Insurance Program shall remain in effect for all foil-time Professional Staff Members entitled to coverage during any period when such Professional Staff Member is: (1) on the active working payroll, (2) on compensated sick leave, (3) on sabbatical leave, (4) on non-compensated approved leave of less than thirty (30) days (except personal illness leave of absence), (5) on non-compensated leave for personal illness of less than ninety (90) days, or (6) working only during the regular school year and not working during the summer break period until such Professional Staff Members either resign their employment status or fail to return to active working status at the commencement of the next school year.
Professional Staff Members on non-compensated approved leaves or approved medical leave who desire to continue insurance coverages past the period for which the BOARD has agreed to continue such coverage on the basis set forth in Section 49.06 may do so by paying the foil premium for any such insurance to the Treasurer on or before the seventeenth (17th) day of the month prior to any such month such coverage is desired to be continued. In the event coverage is discontinued for any period, coverage cannot be re-acquired through the BOARD until the Professional Staff Member returns to active working status.
49.07 Insurance Provided in Summer
All insurance programs shall be continued for Professional Staff Members on the same basis as such insurance is provided during the school year during the months of June, July and August. Professional Staff Members submitting resignations which take effect at the end of a school year will also have their insurance coverage continued during these months on the same basis as such insurance is provided during the school year provided: such Professional Staff Member was covered under the insurance during his/her period of employment during the school year
-	such Professional Staff Member remains in the employ of the BOARD through the end of the regular school year.
-	such Professional Staff Member advises the BOARD on or before March 15 or as soon thereafter as is possible of the intention of such Professional Staff Member not to renew his/her contract with the BOARD
49.08 Determination of Monthly Premium
In the implementation of the foregoing, the Treasurer shall annually determine the annual premium cost to be payable by each Professional Staff Member and withhold sufficient sums from the compensation payable to such Professional Staff Member during the period such Professional Staff Member receives payroll checks to cover that portion of the premium due from the Professional Staff Member during months when the Professional Staff Member is not receiving payroll checks (e.g. during the summer months when school is not in session).
90
49.09 Additional Coverage
49.09.1	If during the life of this CONTRACT National Health Care Insurance is
implemented, the BOARD agrees to pay the difference between the National Health Care Insurance premium amount and the amount up to the cap currently agreed to by the BOARD in order to maintain the current level of benefits.
49.09.2 The parties are committed and agree to negotiate with insurance carriers to ‘ include a premium rate for an employee and one dependent in addition to the current single and family rates, if the addition of such rate decreases the cost of the premium.
49.09.3 The parties agree to review the current insurance carrier for the purpose of selecting a carrier to provide the best benefits within the scheduled caps by May 1st as set forth in Subsection 49.05.1. If the parties do not agree on a change of benefits and/or a provider to stay at or below the caps, the caps will be applied, and enrolled excess of the caps.
49.10	Flexible Spending Account - Medical Reimbursement
The BOARD will make arrangements to afford individual Professional Staff Members the option to subscribe to a Flexible Spending Account, upon written request, in lieu of all medical insurance coverages provided in this Article, subject to the limitation on BOARD contributions toward the cost of such option contained in the following paragraph. Subsequent opportunity to exercise or to revoke the exercise of such option shall be provided as may be mutually agreed upon by the BOARD and the ASSOCIATION, but not more frequently than once in any twelve (12) month period.
On behalf of each Professional Staff Member subscribing to a Flexible Spending Account under the preceding paragraph, the BOARD will reimburse the Professional Staff Member up to $600 (six hundred) dollars each year, after medical expenses have been submitted.
49.11	Cash Option
The BOARD will make arrangements to afford individual Professional Staff Members . the opportunity to elect a cash option upon written request, in lieu of all medical insurance coverages provided in this article, subject to the limitation on BOARD contributions toward the cost of such option contained in the following paragraph. Subsequent opportunity to exercise or to revoke the exercise of such option shall be provided as may be mutually agreed upon by the BOARD and the ASSOCIATION, but not more frequently than once in any twelve (12) month period.
On behalf of each Professional Staff Member electing the cash option under the preceding paragraph, the BOARD will pay the Professional Staff Member six hundred dollars ($600.00) each year. The quarterly gross payments shall be $150.00.
49.12	125 Plan
The benefits provided by Section 125 of the Revenue Act of 1978 shall be made available to any Professional Staff Member so requesting that their benefit elections be
91
non-taxable. An amount not to exceed 50% of salary may be set aside by the Professional Staff Member for the selection of benefits, under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue code, which includes:
Part A	- Insurance premiums on payroll deduction
Part B	- Medical spending account	■
Part C	- Dependent care account
49.13 Continuation of Coverage
49.13.1	Every covered Professional Staff Member, covered spouse of a Professional
Staff Member, and/or covered dependents) of a Professional Staff Member whose group health insurance is terminated for reasons of
-	termination of the employment, layoff or reduction in the hours of employment of the Professional Staff Member
-	death of the Professional Staff Member; or eligibility of the Professional
Staff Member for Medicare; or divorce or separation from the Professional Staff Member
-	change in dependent status (for example, children who attain a certain age under the policy, finish school, marry, etc.)
shall be eligible to elect continuation coverage under the group health insurance policy offered to employees, at group rates which represent 102% of the premium cost. Where group coverage terminates by reason of divorce, separation or change in dependent status, the Professional Staff Member, spouse, and/or dependent must give notice, in writing, of such event to the BOARD, within 60 days of such event. If elected, of coverage shall be available at the cost of the Professional Staff Member or dependents) for 18 months if coverage is terminated by reason of a termination, layoff or reduction in hours, and 36 months for the other above-stated reasons.
49.13.2	Continuation of coverage elected pursuant to Subsection 49.12.1 above shall terminate if any of the following events occur
A.	Premiums are not paid when due
B.	The person(s) continuing coverage become eligible for Medicare, or covered by another group health insurance policy
C.	The BOARD no longer offers group health insurance coverage to its employees.
49.13.3	The provisions of Section 49.13 are to be interpreted and administered in full accord with the Consolidated omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986 (P.L. 99-272) as such Act amended the Public Health Service Act.
92
ARTICLE FIFTY SALARY SCHEDULES FOR CLASSROOM PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
50.01 Salary
Effective July 1,2003, salary increases on the Salary Schedule and hourly rates, including, but not limited to summer school, small group instructors, night school, etc.
Percentage increases as follows:
Step 1	0.00%
Step 2-5	3.10%
Step 6-10	4.00%
Step 11-20	3.75%
CLASSROOM PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS - EFFECTIVE 7/1/03
SERVICE STEP	C BACHELOR’S	D BA+18	E MASTER’S	F MA+ 30	G PH.D
1	30,381	30,873	33,132	34,250	36,701
2	31,323	31,830	34,159	35,312	37,839
3	31,323	31,830	34,159	35,312	37,839
4	32,744	33,250	35,789	36,943	39,471
5	34,162	34,670	37,420	38,573	41,101
6	35,895	36,406	39,390	40,555	43,106
7	37,325	37,839	41,036	42,199	44,749
8	38,759	39,269	42,981	43,844	46,394
9	40,192	40,704	44,327	45,489	48,039
10	41,623	42,136	45,970	47,134	49,684
11	42,953	43,462	47,503	48,662	51,206
12	44,381	44,892	49,143	50,301	52,847
13	46,730	47,252	51,804	52,989	55,582
14	48,187	48,709	53,477	54,662	57,255
15	49,646	50,166	55,152	56,336	58,932
20	50,686	51,206	56,192	57,376	59,972
93
OCCUPATIONAL AND PHYSICAL THERAPISTS - EFFECTIVE 7/1/03
SERVICE
STEP	BACHELOR’S	MASTER'S	MA+ 30
1	36,231	41,701	43,370
2	39,026	44,666	46,386
3	40,697	46,337	48,057
4	42,369	48,010	49,729
5	44,039	49,679	51,401
6	46,110	51,800	53,534
7	47,796	53,486	55,221
8	49,482	55,172	56,907
9	51,167	56,859	58,593
10	52,854	58,544	60,278
11	54,409	60,086	61,814
12	56,091	61,767	63,498
13	58,934	64,724	66,491
14	58,934	64,724	66,491
15	58,934	64,724	66,491
20	59,974	65,764	67,531
50.01.3	Columns C through G represent the annual salary paid including holidays and vacation within the school year as established by the School Calendar and as paid bi-weekly as set forth in the Schedule of Pay Dates. The per diem compensation of each Professional Staff Member working under the compensation set forth in Columns C through G shall be one two-hundredth (1/200th) of such Professional Staff Member's annual compensation, as set forth in such Schedule.
Column C - Professional Staff Members with Bachelor's degree.
Column D - Professional Staff Members with Bachelor's degree plus 18 graduate semester hours or 27 quarter hours credit. Graduate credits shall be those earned following conferral of the Bachelor's degree and must be part of a graduate program leading to an advanced degree in Teaching/Education as certified by the University.
Column E - Professional Staff Members with Master's degree
Column F - Professional Staff Members with Master's degree plus 30 graduate semester or 45 quarter hours beyond Master's degree, or an Educational Specialist degree. Graduate credits shall be those earned following conferral of the Master's degree under the following provisions: (1) University confirmation of all courses completed in a graduate program leading to a Doctoral degree; (2) completion of the requirements for the Educational Specialist degree, a second Master's degree, or completion of the requirements for a new certificate beyond those already held.
94
T
Column G - Professional Staff Members with an earned Doctorate in an accepted educational or teaching field.
50.01.4	Professional Staff Members may advance on the schedule from one degree
level to another upon the completion of schedule requirements. In order to so advance, a Professional Staff Member must present satisfactory evidence from the training institution not later than the fifth (5th) day after the commencement of each nine-week grading period, that the necessary degree has already been granted or that all the work required for the degree or Post Master's Certification has been satisfactorily completed.
A.	Each step through Service Step 15 represents one (1) year of service as a full-time Professional Staff Member, or the equivalent thereof, as recognized by the Superintendent's Office. Service Step 20 represents completion of nineteen (19) or more years of service and is payable with the commencement of the twentieth (20th) year of service as a full-time Professional Staff Member as recognized by the Superintendent's Office. Professional Staff Members may advance a step on the schedule only at the beginning of a school year. In order to so advance, a Professional Staff Member must have been employed in the Dayton Schools at the preceding step on the schedule for at least six (6) consecutive months (twenty-four (24) weeks or one hundred twenty (120) days) within a single school year.
B.	These six (6) months shall be interpreted to include the sixty (60) consecutive school days spent in the same position by a reserve teacher before his/her placement on the salary schedule at a regular two (2) weeks rate. A Professional Staff Member is considered "employed" on all days for which (s)he is paid, but not on any days when (s)he is absent without pay. Except for the sixty (60) consecutive school days preceding the placement of a reserve teacher on the regular salary schedule, reserve teaching on an hourly basis shall not be considered in placing a Professional Staff Member on the schedule.
In placing a Professional Staff Member on the schedule, one year of service credit shall be given for each year of full-time kindergarten teaching (including both morning and afternoon sessions).
C.	A Professional Staff Member entering the Dayton Schools for the first time or re-entering the Dayton Schools after January 1,1956, shall not be placed above Step 10 on the salary schedule. For purposes of placement on the salary schedule, a Professional Staff Member hired during or after the 1987-88 school year will be deemed to have entered or re-entered the Dayton City Schools when (s)he becomes a member of the bargaining unit as a long-term reserve.
50.01.5 For Professional Staff Members entering the Dayton schools or re-entering the Dayton Schools following a break in seniority, one hundred twenty (120) days of reserve teaching experience in the Dayton Schools in a given year shall count as a year of experience for placement on the salary schedule.
95
50.02 Vocational Professional Staff Member Placement
Professional Staff Members employed specifically to teach vocational shop or related subjects in trades or industries and properly certificated for such teaching by the Ohio State Department of Education.
50.02.1 One (1) year of approved trade or business experience (approved by the 4 Superintendent's office) shall be considered equivalent to eighteen (18) semester hours of undergraduate college credit. To be approved for this purpose, the experience must have been in the trade or business to be taught or in the trade to which the subjects to be taught are related.
50.02.2 Not more than ten (10) years of trade or business experience shall be counted as equivalent to college credit.
50.02.3 A vocational shop Professional Staff Member (having ten (10) years of approved trade experience, four (4) years of apprenticeship experience, and three (3) years of journeyman experience) shall be placed on the Bachelor's degree salary level and may advance to the maximum salary for that level without further training except that required for continuous certification as a vocational Professional Staff Member.
50.02.4 For advancement beyond the Bachelor's degree salary level, actual college credits must be presented in addition to any that have been counted toward the Bachelor's level itself. For this purpose, two (2) semester hours of approved undergraduate college credit shall be considered equivalent to one (1) semester hour of graduate college credit.
50.02.5	A vocational shop or related-subject Professional Staff Member having
thirty-six (36) semester hours of approved undergraduate college credit beyond the requirements for attaining the Bachelor's degree salary level shall be placed on the Bachelor's degree plus eighteen (18) graduate semester hours or equivalent salary level and may advance to the maximum salary for that level.
50.02.6 A vocational shop or related-subject Professional Staff Member having sixty (60) semester hours of approved undergraduate college credit beyond the requirements for attaining the Bachelor's degree salary level, shall be placed on the master's degree salary level and may advance to the maximum salary for that level.
50.02.7 Although not more than ten (10) years of trade or business experience may be counted as equivalent to college training, each year of such experience beyond the number counted as equivalent to college training shall be considered equivalent to one (1) year of successful teaching service for placement on the salary schedule.
50.02.8 In giving credit for trade and business experience either as the equivalent of college training or as the equivalent of teaching experience, ten (10) calendar months of trade or business experience shall be considered as one (1) full year of service.
50.02.9 With respect to Schedules for BA +18 through Ph.D., such credits and degrees must be in education or in areas offered by the curriculum of the Dayton Public
96
*
Schools, and such credits and degrees must be received from institutions approved, at the time the credits and/or degrees were earned, by the State of Ohio, Department of Education, and the North Central Association of Schools.
50.02.10 Service Step 20 shall be applicable to Professional Staff Members who have completed nineteen (19) or more years of service as recognized by the Superintendent's office and is payable with the commencement of the twentieth (20th) and subsequent years of service as recognized by the Superintendent's Office. Professional Staff Members on Service Step 20 shall receive bi-weekly pay at the Service Step 15 bi-weekly rate and shall receive the additional one thousand forty dollars ($1,040) salary (the difference between the salary applicable to Service Step 15 and Service Step 20) in two (2) equal installments of five hundred dollars ($500) each payable on the tenth (10th) and twentieth (20th) pay period payroll distribution.
50.03 Salary Schedule Advancement for Staff Development and Committee Work
Staff development hours taken by Professional Staff Members shall be applicable to salary schedule advancement in accordance with the following:
-	Thirty (30) hours worked on a BOARD committee equals one (1) PDU
-	BOARD-sponsored staff development or staff development taken outside the district -Every three (3) PDU's shall equal one semester hour of credit for salary schedule placement/advancement
-	BOARD-sponsored staff development shall include PDU credit. Staff development hours taken may be used in combination with graduate hours for salary schedule placement/advancement
50.04 Salary Schedule Advancement for Graduate Hours
Professional Staff Members shall be placed on the salary schedule and shall advance through the salary schedule for graduate hours taken after conferral of the B.A. degree which meet the following requirements:
-	The hours must be reasonably related to the Professional Staff Member's current assignments
-	The hours must be reasonably related to an area of certification the Professional Staff Member currently possesses
-	The hours must be part of a program leading to additional certification
-	The hours must be part of a program leading to an advanced degree
-	The hours must be requested and approved by the ADMINISTRATION
Headings on the salary schedule columns are stated in semester hours. Quarter hours convert to semester hours by multiplying the quarters by two thirds (2/3).
97
c	er, Professional Staff Members shall submit courses taken for review for
je with the foregoing criteria to the Director of Personnel's office. Course work npleted or in progress may be submitted for compliance review; however, ^ial Staff Members are encouraged to seek review as soon as practical. When ./arses are denied, the ASSOCIATION shall be informed. Hours taken for placement/ advancement beyond the M.A. degree must be taken after conferral of the M.A. degree. In order to advance on the columns of the salary schedule, a Professional Staff Member must present satisfactory evidence from the training institution, no later than the fifth day after commencement of each nine week grading period, that the necessary credits have been completed.
50.05 Hourly Salaried
Effective as indicated, the following compensation plan shall be in effect.
A- Individual and Small Group Instructors and Professional Staff Members for Out-of-School and Hospitalized Students - Professional Staff Members who regularly teach handicapped children individually in the home or in hospital are to be paid as follows for each clock hour worked:
Effective	7/1/02
With 4-year College Degree	$25.40
Without 4-year College Degree	$24.71
B.	Night School Professional Staff Members
The rate for teaching in all night school classes at the Dayton Night School shall be payable per hour of actual service. The same rate shall be paid to Professional Staff Members serving as high school registrars:
Effective	7/1/02
$25.40
C.	Summer School Professional Staff Members:
Effective	7/1/02
$25.03
Regular Professional Staff Members shall be paid at the same rate for the legal holiday, July 4th, in accordance with Subsection 28.06.3.
The rate for reserve summer school teachers will be the same as for regular summer school Professional Staff Members.
D.	Resource Teachers will be on the regular pay schedule of Professional Staff Members plus $50 bi-weekly.
98
50.06 Travel
50.06.1 Any Professional Staff Member required in the course of his/her work to drive a personal automobile will be reimbursed at the highest applicable rate allowable by the I.R.S. Any change in the rate will be paid from the effective date of such change as published in the Federal Register; provided, however, that no change in the rate will be retroactively applied.	-
50.06.2 Professional Staff Members shall not be required to use their personal automobiles for the purpose of transporting students on field trips, transporting athletic teams or other business of the Day ton Public Schools.
50.07 Staff Development Compensation
Professional Staff Members attending staff development workshops on time outside the regular school day will be compensated at the rate of $15.00 per hour.
50.08 Curriculum Committees
For BOARD-initiated committees that utilize Professional Staff Member time beyond the regularly accepted work day and are scheduled to meet for two or more meetings, those Professional Staff Members elected to participate shall be compensated at the rate of $15.00 per hour.
50.09 Extra-Curricular Activities
50.09.1 Extra-curricular activities are an important part of the educational program. Responsibility for these activities rests with the entire teaching staff of each school. It is reasonable to expect that an equitable division of the responsibilities in this area should be made.
To the extent possible, Professional Staff Member preferences shall be observed in such assignments.
50.09.2 In view of the extra involvement the following assignments will carry additional pay in the amounts indicated, payable, unless otherwise specified, with the last pay
50.10 Provisions Applicable to Pay for Extra-Curricular Activities
No change of rate paid during school year as a result of changes in teaching staff salary schedule during school year. All percentages shall mean that percentage of the B A minimum salary per Section 50. 01. Unless otherwise indicated, all supplemental contracts shall be for one (1) school year.
50.10.1	High School
A.	Band Director	17.50%*
Minimum Requirements:
Summer Rehearsals and Band Camp	50 hours
99
Rehearsals and Performances during the school year for 10 football shows or soccer games	80 hours
All other special performances, concerts, competitions, auditions, basketball-pep band performances, etc. 80 hours
To be allotted as a pre-season pay of 4% plus 13.5% in equal amounts during the regular 20-pay contracted period.
B.	Assistant to the Band Director	13.50%*
Minimum Requirements
Summer Rehearsals and Band Camp 50 hours
Rehearsals and performances during the school year for 10 football shows or soccer games	80 hours
All other special performances, concerts, competitions, auditions, basketball-pep band performances, etc	80 hours
To be allotted as a pre-season pay of 4% plus 9.5% in equal amounts during the regular 20-pay contracted period.
C.	Vocal Director	.35%
Orchestra Director	.35%
Concerts, contests, special events, NTE 10, per event
D.	Music-Theater Production	11.50%
NTE 1 per school year (e.g. Voc. Director;
Ind. Art. Instructor) (This amount to be divided by participating staff with concurrence of the Supervisor of music and the Principal.)
E.	Play Director (if more than one director	4.00%
involved in presenting a play, above extra duty pay should be divided) NTE 2 major stage productions per school year. Note: Guidelines are on file in office of Supervisor of Music, Division of Music Education, Department of Instruction.
F.	Newspaper Advisor Not to exceed per school year 3.30% or 14 the amount per school year plus staff or
100
journalism period (optional to Professional Staff Member; nine or more issues)
G.	Yearbook Advisor - Not to exceed per school year 3.30% or 1/2 the amount per school year plus staff or journalism period (optional to Professional Staff Member; hardback publication)
H	Pep Club Advisor	1.50%
I.	Class Advisor	
	Two advisors per class	
	Each advisor will be paid be paid the stipulated	
	amount. When there are over two advisors,	
	only two will be compensated.	
	Senior:	3.30%
	Junior:	2.60%
	Sophomore:	.80%
	Freshman:	.80%
J.	Forensics Sponsor	
	(NTE 8 contests per school year)	.34%
K.	Cheerleader/ Drill Team (NTE 2 sessions per	5.00%
	school year)	
L.	Student Council Advisor	3.30%
M.	Audio-Visual Chairperson or one unassigned period	2.60%
	(optional to Professional Staff Member)	
N.	Subject Area Chairperson	3.20%
0.	’Head Coach:	Football, Basketball l2	17.00%
	2	17.50%
	3	18.00%
	4	18.50%
	5	19.00%
P.	’Head Coach:	Wrestling,	I2	11.00%
	Swimming	2	11.50%
	3	12.00%
	4	12.50%
	5	13.00%
Q-	’Head Coach:	Baseball,	I2	10.00%
	Track, Volleyball 2	10.50%
	and Soccer	3	11.00%
101
	4 5	11.50% 12.00%
R.	Assistant Coaches:	Football,	I2	10.00%
	Basketball	2	10.50%
	3	11.00%
	4	11.50%
	5	12.00%
S.	’Head Coach:	Tennis, Golf,	l2	5.00%
	Cross Country	2	5.25%
	3	5.50%
	4	5.75%
	5	6.00%
T.	’Assistant coach:	Baseball,	I2	5.00%
	Soccer, Wrestling, 2	5.25%
	Volleyball, Track, 3	5.50%
	Elementary Head 4	5.75%
	5	6.00%
U.	Athletic Directors		25.00%
(Guidelines are on file in the Division of Athletics)		
V.	Assistant Athletic Directors		14.00%
(Guidelines are on file in the Division of Athletics)		
Reserve teachers will be provided for coaches whose teams are competing at Sectional, District, Regional or State level when absence for the school day is required.
W.	Intramural Leader	3.90%
X.	Intramural Assistant	2.00%
Y.	Special Education Liaison	2.00%
Z.	Intervention Team Coordinator	2.00%
AA.	National Honor Society	2.00%
BB.	Cluster Leader	3.20%
CC.	Career Exploration	
	Chairpersons	$600.00
	Patterson Building	$300.00
	Chair Leaders	$200.00
102
J
DD.	Job Coordinator - Patterson Co-op	$175.00
EE.	Employee Education Development Liaison	$375.00/per semester.
FF.	Technical Building Coordinator	2.00% ‘
GG.	Expansion Committee	2.00%
HH.	Mentor	2.00%
II.	Accountability Committee	2.00%
50.10.2 Middle School
A.	School Treasurer	7.50%
B.	Cluster Leader	3.20%
C.	Cheerleader Advisor (NTE 2 sessions per school year)	2.00%
D.	Eighth Grade Advisor	.70%
E.	Seventh Grade Advisor	.70%
F.	Newspaper Advisor	2.00%
G.	Yearbook Advisor	2.00%
H.	Pep Club Advisor	.70%
I.	Vocal Director/Orchestra Director Concerts, contests, special events; NTE 10; per event	.35%
J.	Music - Theater Production	8.00%
NTE 1 per school year (e.g. Voc. Director;
Drama Director; Orchestra Director; Producer;)
(This amount to be divided by participating staff with concurrence of the Supervisor of Music and the Principal)
K.	Band Director	
	TE 8; per performance	.35%
L.	Student Council Advisor (1)	1.50%
M.	Safety Patrol (K-3 buildings)	2.10%
103
N. Book Room	2.00%
0.	Sports Coordinator (Guidelines are on file in the	
	Division of Athletics) maximum Per Season	7.50% 2.50%
p.	Intramural Leader	4.00%
Q-	Intramural Assistant	2.00%
R.	Head Coach	I2	5.25% 2	5.50% 3	6.00% 4	6.50% 5	7.00%
S.	Assistant Coach	I2	5.00% 2	5.25% 3	5.50% 4	5.75% 5	6.00%
T.	Intermediate Special Education Liaison	2.00%
U.	Audio-Visual Chairperson	2.00%
V.	Intervention Team Coordinator	2.00%
Ad
W.	Jr. National Honor Society	2.00%
X.	Career Exploration and Motivation	$350.00-$650.00
Chairperson
Y.	Employee Education and Development Liaison
$375.00/semester
Z.	Technical Building Coordinator	2.00%
AA.	Expansion Committee	2.00%
BB.	Mentor	2.00%
CC.	Accountability Committee	2.00%
50.10.3 Elementary School
A.	Cluster Leader	3.20%
104
1
B.	School Treasurer	3.75%
C.	Safety Patrol	2.10%
D.	Student Council Advisor	.90%
E.	Music/Art: (NTE 3 contests, concerts, or special events per school year approved by the Supervisor and Principal)	.35%
F.	Intramural Activities	3.50%
G.	Book Room	2.00%
H. I.	Audio-Visual Chairperson Special Education Liaison	1.00% 2.00%
J.	Intervention Team Coordinator	2.00%
K.	Career Motivation and Career orientation Chairpersons $350.00-$650.00	
L.	Principal Aides	$750.00
M.	Employee Education and Development Liaison	$375.00/semester
N.	Technical Building Coordinator	2.00%
0. P.	Expansion Committee Mentor	2.00% 2.00%
Q-	Accountability Committee	2.00%
R.	Director of Intramurals (2)	$3400.00
s.	LPDC	10.00%
*Coordinator has data on file as to distribution.		
50.10.4	If the Central Administration requests participation of any of the above persons for special performances, compensation will be provided. Remuneration will be consistent with that provided in the appropriate category.		
Payment for the positions herein listed shall be paid to the individual(s) fulfilling a supplemental contract. Supplemental contracts may be divided between two (2) or more individuals, and the BOARD reserves the right to not fill a supplemental position set forth herein.
105
ARTICLE FIFTY-ONE
STRS PICK-UP UTILIZING THE SALARY METHOD
51.01 STRS Pick-Up
The BOARD shall designate each employee's mandatory contributions to the State Teachers Retirement System of Ohio as "picked up” by the BOARD as contemplated by Internal Revenue Service Revenue Rulings 77-464 and 81-38. They shall continue to be designated as employee contributions as permitted by Attorney General opinion 82-097, in order that the amount of the employee's income reported by the BOARD as subject to federal and Ohio income tax shall be the employee's total gross income reduced by the then-current percentage amount of the employee's mandatory State Teachers Retirement System contribution which has been designated as "picked up" by the BOARD. The amount designated as "picked up" by the BOARD shall be included in computing final average salary, provided that no employee's total salary is increased by such "pick up," nor is the BOARD'S total contribution to the State Teachers Retirement System increased thereby.
51.01.1 The pick up percentage shall apply uniformly to all members of the bargaining unit as a condition of employment. The pick up shall apply to all compensation including supplemental earnings thereafter.
51.01.2 The parties agree that should the rules and regulations of the IRS, or retirement system change making this procedure unworkable, the parties agree to return, without penalty, to the former method of employee/ employer contributions.
51.01.3 Payment for sick leave, personal leave, severance and suppiementals, including unemployment and worker's compensation, shall be based on the employee's daily gross pay prior to reduction as basis (e.g., gross pay divided by the number of days in the Professional Staff Member’s contract).
51.02 Requirements of STRS Pick-Up
Such salary reduction shall not result in a salary which is less than the salary available under the State minimum salary schedule. Should the reduction calculation result in a salary that is less than the State minimum, salary schedule pro rata reduction shall result with the employee contributing that portion which falls below such State minimum level.
ARTICLE FIFTY-TWO AUTHORIZED PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
52.01 List of Payroll Deductions
The following payroll deductions shall be permitted without cost to the Professional Staff Member:
52.01.1 Payroll deduction for Dayton Area School Employees' Federal Credit Union for all Professional Staff Members eligible to participate in the Dayton Area School Employees' Federal Credit Union.
106
52.01.2 Payroll deduction for income protection insurance for all Professional Staff Members from among the carriers approved by the Treasurer and the ASSOCIATION.
52.01.3 Payroll deduction for the United Way for all Professional Staff Members who elect to participate in the United Way by executing the United Way payroll deduction authorization.
52.01.4 Payroll deduction for the premium cost of any insurance premiums due from the Professional Staff Member for an insurance secured through the BOARD.
52.01.5 Payroll deduction for ASSOCIATION dues and fair share fees in accordance with Section 52.03.
52.01.6 Payroll deduction for such other purposes mutually agreeable to the Treasurer of the BOARD and the Professional Staff Member or as required by law.
52.01.7 Payroll deduction through amendment of CONTRACT salary for all Professional Staff Members wishing to participate in a tax sheltered annuity program. There shall be one (1) open enrollment period each year between September 1 through November 30. Salary deducted for such annuities shall be transmitted to the appropriate annuity company no later than three (3) work days following the payroll date.
52.01.8 Payroll deduction for the purchase of STRS service credit.
52.01.9	Payroll deduction for contributions to the Section 125 Flexible Benefit Plan
outlined in Section 49.11.
52.01.10 Such deductions shall be made at a time convenient to the deduction schedule.
52.02 Timeliness of Remittances
All sums deducted from the payroll of a Professional Staff Member will be promptly remitted by the office of the Treasurer to the Fiscal Agent for the purpose of the withholding.
52.03 ASSOCIATION Dues
52.03.1	Authorization for payroll deductions for membership dues in the
ASSOCIATION and other affiliated or parent organizations of the ASSOCIATION, including the National Education Association, the Ohio Education Association, and the Western Ohio Education Association, shall be on an annual basis. The total amount of the deduction will be prorated into fifteen (15) equal installments for twenty (20) pay employees and twenty (20) equal installments for 26 pay employees, effective with the pay period mutually agreed upon in writing as the starting point by the President of the ASSOCIATION and the Treasurer of the BOARD. Said deduction shall continue in full force and effect until such time as the Professional Staff Member gives written notice to the Treasurer of the BOARD to discontinue the deduction, or the ASSOCIATION gives notice to the Treasurer of the BOARD that the Professional Staff Member has terminated his/her membership in the ASSOCIATION. Upon such notification, the Treasurer of the BOARD shall
107
commence the check-off of fair share fees as authorized in Section 1.06 of this CONTRACT.
52.03.2 The ASSOCIATION agrees to hold the BOARD harmless from any liability that may be incurred to any person or persons due to the BOARD'S good faith enforcement of this provision.
52.04 Electronic Transfers
Direct deposit of payroll is available for those Professional Staff Members who wish to use this convenience. Professional Staff Members may enroll by completing forms available in the Payroll Department and the Human Resources Department.
The Professional Staff Member may cancel direct deposit of payroll at any time by completing forms available in the Payroll Department and the Human Resources Department.
The net pay of the Professional Staff Member will be deposited via electronic transfer to the account or accounts at the financial institution selected by the Professional Staff Member no later than the pay date. If the pay date is other than a regular pay date, the electronic transfer will be made no later than the pay date that paychecks are distributed.
Effective with the 2002-2003 school year, direct deposit of payroll is required for all newly hired Professional Staff Members. Professional Staff Members subject to this provision do not have the option of canceling direct deposit of payroll.
ARTICLE FIFTY-THREE SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE
53.01 Severance Rights
Pursuant to Section 124.391 of the Revised Code of Ohio, the following policy shall be applicable to the conversion of accumulated and unused sick leave at the time of retirement of a Professional Staff Member.
53.02 Eligibility for Severance
A Professional Staff Member is eligible for severance if (s)he is a person who:
-	has been employed by the BOARD continuously for a period of at least five (5) years prior to the date of retirement
-	accrues sick leave pursuant to the provision of the Revised Code of Ohio
-	is eligible to receive a retirement pension benefit as a result of employment by the BOARD pursuant to die provisions of the Revised Code of Ohio
-	retires from the employ of the BOARD after the effective date of this CONTRACT.
108
53.03 Conversion Factor
All sick leave accumulated by the Professional Staff Member, to a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) total days, may be converted to severance pay and paid as such on the basis of one (1) day of severance pay for each four (4) days of accumulated and unused sick leave converted. The maximum number of days paid as severance pay under this article shall be forty-five (45) days.	*
53.04 Elimination of Sick Leave
Payment for sick leave on this basis shall be considered to eliminate all sick leave credit accrued by the Professional Staff Member at that time. Payment shall be based on the Professional Staff Member's rate of pay at the time of retirement. Such payment shall be made only once to any Professional Staff Member.
53.05 Severance Account
The following Severance Account shall be effective:
Professional Staff Members must accumulate the maximum 250 days of sick leave to be eligible to accumulate days in the Severance Account.
-	Excess sick leave days beyond the 250 maximum will be transferred into a Severance Account for the Professional Staff Member.
-	Severance Account days may not be used as sick leave days.
-	Accumulated Severance Account days will be paid at a ratio of 1 day's pay for each 4 days of accumulated Severance Account days at the time of retirement maximum payment of Severance Account days is limited to 45 days.
ARTICLE FIFTY-FOUR EXTENDED TIME ASSIGNMENTS
54.01 Establishment of Rates of Compensation
All extended time assignments shall be awarded on a per diem rate. If the extended time is a supplemental contract, it must be bargained.
54.02 Requirement for Extended Time
Involvement in extended time outside the regular contractual year will be voluntary on the part of each Professional Staff Member.
54.03 Payment for Extended Time
The BOARD will make every effort to make sure the payment for extended time will be made no later than one (1) month following the performance of such work.
109
ARTICLE FIFTY-FIVE SCHOOL NURSES
55.01 Nurses Meetings
The Director of Health Services will schedule one regular nurses' meeting per month. At the discretion of the Director of Health Services and as dictated by conditions, additional meetings may be scheduled. Meetings may not extend longer than the nurses’ regular hours.
The Director is to distribute a written agenda at least twenty-four (24) hours before the meeting, if possible.
55.02 Nursing Supplies
To the extent practicable, each school building will have uniform equipment and supplies for the administration of first aid as shall be determined to be necessary by the Director of Health Services.
55.03 Nursing Work Environment
The Building Principal will consult with the nurse about the establishment of a clinic area with appropriate supplies in each building. After consultation, every reasonable effort will be made to provide the following:
-	A designated clinic area with sink, toilet, chairs and other equipment necessary for clinic activities
-	A designated area for confidential conversation, which shall be a private room
-	A designated area for supervision of ill children
-	Reasonable means of securing confidential medical record and medication
-	A phone in the designated clinic area
-	Access to all medical records
55.04 Reserve Nurses
If a nurse is on a long-term absence, the Director of Health Services will, to the extent possible and practicable, provide coverage for the absent nurse.
55.05 Nurses* Use of Clerical Services
School nurses will be permitted to utilize the clerical services of the school.
55.06 Nurses* Planning Time
Nurse shall have a minimum of thirty (30) minutes of planning time per day,
110
ARTICLE FIFTY-SIX LIBRARY/MEDIA CENTERS
56.01 Requirement for Library/Media Centers
The BOARD shall provide full time Library/Media Professional Staff Members in each middle school and high school. Field Library/Media Specialists shall be provided at the elementary level.
56.02 Library/Media Budget
The BOARD will provide an annual operating budget for Library/Media centers based on minimum state standards. The School Faculty Council and the school Librarian/Media Center personnel will make recommendations to the school Principal for each school's annual appropriations budget.
56.03 Evaluation of Library Needs
Existing collections may be evaluated by the School Faculty Council and/or the School Librarian/Media Center personnel for the purpose of making recommendations to the Library/Media Services Department regarding acquisition or changes required to provide for the range of curriculum needs within each individual school building.
56.04 Library Schedule
The Building Principal will set the Library/Media Center schedule in accordance with the individual school's philosophy, the Library/Media Center's facilities and the staff. The Library/Media Center shall be open the first day of school. Desired changes in the Library/Media Center schedule will be discussed with the School Faculty Council.
ARTICLE FIFTY-SEVEN
COUNSELORS
57.01 Counselor's Immediate Supervisor
A school counselor shall be directly responsible to the Building Principal or his/her designated representative.
57.02 Implementation of Goals
It will be the responsibility of the Building Principal and the Building Counselors to implement the “Essential Minimum Goals" as established by the Superintendent's designee and to establish additional goals important or unique to a particular building.
57.03 Counselor's Working Conditions
To provide needed services to students, staff, and community, a counselor, will be:
ill
’ with a graduate degree and certification in guidance and of Ohio
ay without permanently assigned duties unrelated to
' * N'	this article will prohibit counselors from assisting with
,d among all Professional Staff Members assigned to the . not be responsible for developing the master schedule for vo)he is assigned. Counselors will not be used to cover an
.4 to provide planning time to another Professional Staff Member.
. office area conducive to effective counseling within the limitations of the as determined by the Building Principal
xovided the clerical services necessary to carry out the duties of the counselor position.
ARTICLE FIFTY-EIGHT INDIVIDUAL AND SMALL GROUP INSTRUCTORS
58.01 Work Environment of Small Group Instructors
The ADMINISTRATION will work with the Individual and Small Group Instructors to provide a quiet, uninterrupted place to work with students.
58.02 Instructional Period
Individual and Small Group Instructors will normally instruct each assigned student for the maximum of one (1) hour per day, provided the need for such time is established, student time is available, and the instruction is approved by the designated Administrator.
58.03 Calculation of Part Time Status
Individual and Small Group Instructors shall be considered part-time employees of the BOARD and will be regularly scheduled to work seven (7) hours per day. Such instructors shall be paid for hours worked at the rate set forth in Article Fifty of this CONTRACT. The regular work schedule will include:
Five (5) hours Student Contact Time - as per Article Eight
Thirty (30) minutes Lunch Period
Thirty (30) minutes Planning Time, One (1) hour Travel, Testing/IEP Writing and Parent/Professional Staff Member Conferences
If Instructors are employed for less than seven (7) hours per day, time for planning, testing/IEP writing, and parent/Professional Staff Member conferences shall be prorated according to the student contact hours worked . If an instructor is scheduled to work 5 hours per day or less, that Instructor will not be entitled to a paid lunch period.
112
The maximum number of schools assigned to an Instructor shall be three (3). The three (3) in ADMINISTRATION will endeavor to limit the number of assigned schools to less than order to maximize student contact time.
58.04 Transfer of Small Group Instructors
Small Group Instructors shall be afforded transfer rights as set forth in Article Twenty-Five, provided, however, they shall be considered probationary employees during the first two years of a regular teaching contract. After the second year of the regular teaching contract, they shall be eligible for a continuing contract if requirements for such are met.
ARTICLE FIFTY-NINE MONTESSORI SCHOOLS
59.01 Steering Committee
A steering committee will be established with elected representatives from each site. This committee will meet on a regular basis and review all Montessori issues. Professional Staff Members will have a right to submit agenda items. A written report will be given to each Professional Staff Member and to ASSOCIATION.
59.02 Class Size
Class size shall be no larger than 25 students, except in grades 7-8 where it will be 32.
59.03 Classroom Materials
The BOARD will provide approved classroom materials appropriate to each age grouping.
59.04 Use of Assigned Paraprofessionals
Instructional aides will be provided and shall be used in the classroom, within the guidelines of Section 12.08, as follows:
-	one per kindergarten classroom
-	one for every primary multi-aged grouped classroom (ages 6-9 years)
-	one for every two elementary multi-age grouped classrooms (ages 9-12 years)
-	one for every two middle school multi-age grouped classrooms (ages 12-13 years)
-	one for every special education
-	one for every Art classroom
Paraprofessionals shall accompany students to music and physical education classes unless otherwise agreed to by the Professional Staff Members involved.
113
-	a professional educator with a graduate degree and certification in guidance and counseling by the State of Ohio
-	available during the school day without permanently assigned duties unrelated to guidance activities. Nothing in this article will prohibit counselors from assisting with regular duties which are rotated among all Professional Staff Members assigned to the building. A counselor will not be responsible for developing the master schedule for the building to which (s)he is assigned. Counselors will not be used to cover an assignment in order to provide planning time to another Professional Staff Member.
-	provided an office area conducive to effective counseling within the limitations of the building, as determined by the Building Principal
-	provided the clerical services necessary to carry out the duties of the counselor position.
ARTICLE FIFTY-EIGHT INDIVIDUAL AND SMALL GROUP INSTRUCTORS
58.01 Work Environment of Small Group Instructors
The ADMINISTRATION will work with the Individual and Small Group Instructors to provide a quiet, uninterrupted place to work with students.
58.02 Instructional Period
Individual and Small Group Instructors will normally instruct each assigned student for the maximum of one (1) hour per day, provided the need for such time is established, student time is available, and the instruction is approved by the designated Administrator.
58.03 Calculation of Part Time Status
Individual and Small Group Instructors shall be considered part-time employees of the BOARD and will be regularly scheduled to work seven (7) hours per day. Such instructors shall be paid for hours worked at the rate set forth in Article Fifty of this CONTRACT. The regular work schedule will include:
Five (5) hours Student Contact Time - as per Article Eight
Thirty (30) minutes Lunch Period
Thirty (30) minutes Planning Time, One (1) hour Travel, Testing/IEP Writing and Parent/Professional Staff Member Conferences
If Instructors are employed for less than seven (7) hours per day, time for planning, testing/IEP writing, and parent/Professional Staff Member conferences shall be prorated according to the student contact hours worked. If an instructor is scheduled to work 5 !6 hours per day or less, that Instructor will not be entitled to a paid lunch period.
112
The professional staff member in the Montessori school will be responsible for providing a written description of the assignments of the paraprofessional in the lesson plan.
59.05 Resource Centers
Resource centers at each site shall contain copies of appropriate student and Professional Staff Member instructional materials.
ARTICLE SIXTY
PROFESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS FOR OUT OF SCHOOL AND HOSPITALIZED STUDENTS
60.01 Work Environment
The ADMINISTRATION will work with Professional Staff Members of out of school and hospitalized students to provide a quiet uninterrupted place to work with students.
60.02 Hours of Assignment
Professional Staff Members will normally instruct each assigned student for ten (10) hours per two-week period, as determined by the designated administrator. Make-up hours may be authorized by the designated administrator for students unable to receive the scheduled instruction, such hours to be made up within the calendar year of regular instruction.
60.03 Pay Practices for Professional Staff Members of Out of School and Hospitalized Students
In order to establish equity with other Professional Staff Members in relation to time, responsibility and duties, the following pay practices will be followed for Professional Staff Members of out of school and hospitalized students:
60.03.1	Professional Staff Members of out of school and hospitalized students shall be
considered part-time employees of the BOARD and will be scheduled to work a maximum of five (5) hours per day, except when compensation is due under 60.02. Such Professional Staff Members shall be paid for hours worked at the rate set forth in Article Fifty of this CONTRACT.
60.03.2 Make-up hours will be authorized as outlined in Section 60.02 above.
60.04 Staff Development Programs
Professional Staff Members for out of school and hospitalized students will be paid for required staff development programs at the rate authorized for other Professional Staff Members for specific programs. Attendance at a before school year orientation session and a closing school year session will be expected of all Professional Staff Members as a part of their acceptance of the instructional responsibility without additional compensation.
114
60.05 Holidays
Professional Staff Members will be paid for scheduled holidays and recess periods as recognized by the school calendar beginning with the third week of assigned instruction at the rate determined by the daily hours assigned for the preceding week prior to the holiday.
60.06 Personal Leave
Professional Staff Members will be paid for the personal leave day negotiated for other Professional Staff Members at the rate determined by the daily hours assigned for the preceding two-week pay period prior to the Personal Leave Day.
60.07 Additional Record Keeping Time
Professional Staff Members will be paid an additional two (2) hours per pupil per year for IEP writing, up to a maximum of ten (10) hours per year per Professional Staff Member. Example: If a Professional Staff Member has only three (3) students, the maximum would be an additional six (6) hours per year.
60.08 Additional Preparation Time
Preparation Time/New Students: An out of school Professional Staff Member will receive one (1) hour preparation time for each new student assigned, so long as the total work hours for the day do not exceed five (5) hours. In addition, an out of school Professional Staff Member will receive one (1) hour of paid time for completion of the necessary paperwork whenever a student assignment is terminated.
60.09 Cancellation of Pay
If a Professional Staff Member for out of school and hospitalized students is not notified by the close of the previous school day of the cancellation of a scheduled work hour, such Professional Staff Member for out of school and hospitalized students who reports to his/her assignment will receive his/her normal compensation for a canceled assignment.
ARTICLE SIXTY-ONE
LONG-TERM RESERVE TEACHERS AFTER THE 60TH DAY
61.01 Movement to New Bargaining Unit
In accordance with Subsection 1.02.2 of this CONTRACT a reserve teacher shall become a long-term reserve teacher and a member of the bargaining unit on the 61 st work day in the same position and shall remain a member of the bargaining unit until terminated in said position.
61.02 Placement on Salary Schedule
A long-term reserve teacher shall be placed on the salary schedule outlined in Article Forty-Six at the appropriate column and step as provided for in said article.
115
1- "
61.03 Assessment of Long-Term Reserve Teacher
The Building Principal or immediate supervisor shall evaluate a long-term reserve teacher if (s)he is working in the position for more than sixty (60) work days. A recommendation will be made to the Executive Director, Personnel Services or his/her designee, regarding the long-term reserve teacher's potential for hiring as a regularly contracted Professional Staff Member.
61.04 Automatic Nonrenewal
The appointment of a long-term reserve teacher will automatically terminate at the end of a school year, without the need for notification of non-renewal from the BOARD pursuant to the provisions of Section 3319.11, Ohio Revised Code.
ARTICLE SIXTY-TWO SPECIAL EDUCATION WORK STUDY COORDINATORS
62.01 Pay and Extended Time of Special Education Work Study Coordinators
Special Education Work Study Coordinators will be paid in accordance with die salary schedules set forth in Article Fifty of this CONTRACT. In addition, such coordinators may be extended up to 2.5 additional pays to insure adequate coverage of student employment throughout the entire calendar year. The selection of coordinators to work extended time shall be based on seniority within the "high incidence" area and within the "low incidence" area of the student population being served. Coordinators will be notified of the work schedule for the summer break on or before April 30th.
62.02 Flexible Time
Special Education Work Study Coordinators shall work 7.25 hours per day. The regular work hours shall be 8:00 a.m. to 3:15 p.m. The needs of the student population being served may require that coordinators flex their work schedules between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., as approved by the Director of Special Education.
62.03 Scheduling of Work Days
Special Education Work Study Coordinators will work the same number of days each school year as regular classroom Professional Staff Members, but the actual days worked may be flexed in order to meet the needs of the student population being served.
Decisions regarding which work study coordinator(s) will work during scheduled breaks will be jointly made by the coordinators and the Director of Special Education no later than September 30th of each school year. In the event a contract cannot be reached, the least senior coordinator(s) will be required to work the scheduled breaks.
62.04 Development of lEPs
Special Education Work Study Coordinators and the Special Education Professional Staff Members will jointly schedule time to be used for IEP development.
116
ARTICLE SIXTY-THREE AUXILIARY SERVICES PERSONNEL
63.01 Auxiliary Services Defined
Professional Staff Members in Auxiliary Services provide services to the nonpublic schools according to Auxiliary services Regulations.
63.02 Work Year of Auxiliary Services
The work year of the Professional Staff Members in Auxiliary Services will conform as closely as possible to the calendar of the non-public school(s) they serve.
63.03 Auxiliary Counselors and Speech Therapists
Professional Staff Members who are employed as Counselors and Speech Therapists in the Auxiliary Services Program are regularly contracted Professional Staff Members and are considered full-time employees of the BOARD.
63.04 Work Day for Auxiliary Service
Individual and Small Group Instructors in Auxiliary Services will be regularly scheduled to work a minimum of six (6) hours per day. Such Instructors shall be paid for hours worked at the rate set forth in Article Fifty of this CONTRACT.
63.05 Exclusions of CONTRACT Provisions
The provisions of the CONTRACT shall apply to Individual and Small Group Instructors in Auxiliary Services except for the following: Articles Seven (except 7.03), Nine, Ten, Eleven, Sixteen, Thirty, Sixty, Sixty-Two and Sections 26.01,26.02,26.03,26.04,26.07, 26.10, and 58.03.
63.06 Counselors and Speech Therapists
The exclusions outlined in subsection 63.05 shall apply to Professional Staff Members employed as Counselors and Speech Therapists in the Auxiliary Services Program.
63.07 Faculty Council
An Auxiliary Services Program Faculty Council will be implemented based upon the provisions of Article Ten.
63.08 Handbook for Auxiliary Service
A handbook shall be jointly developed by the Professional Staff Members and the program supervisors that will outline the Auxiliary Services program procedures, and a copy shall be sent to the ASSOCIATION office.
117
ARTICLE SIXTY-FOUR CONTINUATION OF PAY/TRANSITIONAL DUTY
64.01 Preamble
An employee who suffers a compensable workers’ compensation injury, including being assaulted by a student, and who is temporarily and totally disabled as a result of the injury may be eligible to receive compensation from the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation (BWC).
This Continuation of Pay is designed to cover injured employees who would otherwise receive BWC temporary total payments where it is fiscally responsible for the District by causing the BWC to set a lower claim reserve and hence a lower premium regarding each case.
This section does not affect or replace the employees’ need to file claims with the BWC for medical treatment.
The goal of this section is to return the employee to employment with die District safely and at the earliest possible time following a work injury while positively impacting the BWC premium for workers’ compensation coverage.
64.02 Continuation of Pay (COP)
COP is recommended to expedite payment, eliminate hardship to injured employees, and effectively manage lost time claim costs.
Definition: COP is the continuation of full hourly wages and benefits.
64.02.1	Continuation of Pay is not payable unless the employee makes a workers'
compensation claim. It is certified by the District and the employee has provided all necessary documentation to Include any and all District Injury Report Forms, the BWC First Report of Injury (FROI), medical releases, MCO forms, Third-Party Administrator forms and any other related records required by the Risk Manager or Supervisor. COP shall only be approved if it is fiscally responsible for the District by positively impacting the District BWC premiums.
64.02.2 Continuation of Pay payments are computed on the basis of the employees’ base rate of pay and normally scheduled hours, not to exceed forty (40) hours per week. Part-time employees will have payment pro-rated.
Time authorized under Continuation of Pay is considered time worked for employees still in their probationary period, if any.
To allow for tracking of wages paid as a COP, the Continuation of Pay must be recorded using the appropriate payroll codes which the Treasurer shall provide for salaried and hourly employees. Payroll clerks shall properly code COP when paid.
118

An employee continues to accrue sick leave while on Continuation of Pay if they would have otherwise accrued such leaves.
64.02.3 Increments of COP must be approved by the Risk Manager when it is fiscally responsible for the District by having a positive impact on BWC reserves and premiums, and no one increment may exceed four (4) weeks. COP cannot exceed twelve (12) calendar weeks for any one claim over the lifetime of that claim. If the employee has not returned to work within the twelve (12) calendar week period and has not reached maximum medical improvement, he/she may then receive benefits from the BWC or use any available sick leave, but the employer will not be required to buy back any sick leave used.
64.02.4 Payments are made only for periods the employee would have been eligible for temporary total workers’ compensation benefits for injuries and will be terminated upon return to work; when the Bureau of Workers' Compensation or the Industrial Commission has determined the employee has reached maximum medical improvement, when an offer of transitional duty has been made by the District and declined by the employee, or, when twelve (12) calendar weeks of Continuation of Pay have been paid, whichever occurs first.
A return to work does not eliminate eligibility for the balance of Continuation of Pay in the future if a medically documented flair up occurs as determined by the Bureau of Workers' Compensation or the Industrial Commission for this claim.
64.02.5 An injured employee receiving Continuation of Pay cannot concurrently receive, for the same period of time, any other District compensation (e.g. sick leave, supplemental contract pay, etc.) or temporary total compensation payments from the State of Ohio Bureau of Workers' Compensation.
Continuation of Pay may be paid for medical appointments documented under an approved transitional duty program and approved by the Risk Manager. (See Transitional Duty). This policy supercedes any prior practice of sick leave buyback, except as noted below, and COP shall not be charged to sick leave.
Time authorized under Continuation of Pay is an FMLA qualifying event.
64.03 Eligibility for COP
64.03.1 An employee must be employed by and/or be on contract with the District and be receiving wages from the District to remain eligible for COP, the employee must remain eligible to receive wages and/or be on contract. For example, no contract employee or other employee not required to work, such as during Summer and Intercession breaks, shall receive COP during the time that they are not ordinarily required to work.
64.03.2 An employee must sign a Continuation of Pay reimbursement agreement.
64.03.3 The date of injury must occur in a year in which the District's merit rating or retrospective premiums will be impacted. Currently, the date of injury must occur during the most recent four, full calendar years or during the current calendar year, and, until 1/1/01, in 1992, and, until 1/1/02, in 1993.
119
If a workers date of injury makes him/her ineligible for COP, then in that case, the employee may use accumulated sick leave, as provided in other provisions, and if the employee assigns their BWC check for the payment of temporary total disability to the District, then the Treasurer will recredit sick leave in the amount of the BWC check.
64.03.4 The employee must be totally disabled from all employment and must miss more then seven (7) calendar days; or, quality for Continuation of Pay under Transitional Duty policy with reimbursement for documented medical appointments or gradual return to work program.
64.03.5 An employee is not paid Continuation of Pay for the first seven (7) days until after fourteen (14) consecutive days of total disability as determined by the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, except as when Transitional Duty policy may apply.
64.03.6 The claim must be certified by the District. If a claim is rejected by the District, but allowed by the BWC or the Industrial Commission, Continuation of Pay is paid retroactively, provided it is advantageous to the Districts BWC premium and provided the provisions of this policy are fulfilled. An employee may use sick, vacation, or personal time pending a decision on allowance. This time is reimbursed hour for hour upon allowance by the BWC or the Industrial Commission.
The employee must cooperate at all times in meeting with and in responding to information requests of the MCO, BWC, the Risk Manager, and health providers.
64.04 Transitional Duty
Transitional Duty is designed to allow an employee to safely return to work with temporary physical limitations and restrictions which may prevent the employee from performing all of his or her assigned duties.
Transitional Duty applies only to work-related workers' compensation injuries or illnesses and is not to be considered as an official position or job. Transitional Duty is not a job classification, permanent or otherwise. An employee performing transitional duties retains his/her existing job classification and seniority.
Transitional Duty is applicable only when it is deemed medically reasonable that a full recovery is expected to occur within twelve (12) weeks. Transitional Duty, therefore, shall last no more than twelve (12) weeks with a full return to work by the end of twelve (12) weeks. Transitional Duty is not available if the employee has reached maximum medical improvement as determined by the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation.
64.04.1 To be eligible for Transitional Duty, an employee must complete all related injury investigation forms, First Report of Injury (FROI) form, medical releases, and any other documents required by die physician, the Managed Care Organization (MCO), the employer, and the Third-Party Administrator.
64.04.2 Transitional Duty is implemented upon the availability of Transitional Duty by the employer. Full regular wages are paid during Transitional Duty.
120
The Treasurer shall use a payroll code for salaried and another code for hourly employees working in Transitional Duty to allow for proper tracking of Transitional Duty.
64.04.3 Transitional Duty can be less than full time with Continuation of Pay paid, if eligible, for hours not worked to supplement a full, regular wage. Hours not worked must be documented and supported by appropriate medical . documentations. For example, an employee normally scheduled for eight (8) hours per day is released to return to work four (4) hours and attends physical therapy the remaining four (4) hours. In this situation, he will work four (4) hours and receive his regular wages and then receive four (4) hours of Continuation of Pay upon submission of supporting medical documentation of the time spent in therapy.
64.05 Coordination of Transitional Duty
Transitional Duty is applicable to compensable injuries as determined by the Bureau of Workers' Compensation whether lost time or medical only. Once an employee returns to work under the Transitional Duty program, Continuation of Pay is payable in medical-only claim. For example, if an employee is off four days and returns to work trader an approved Transitional Duty program, the four days will not be considered Continuation of Pay. If, however, the employee returns to work under Transitional Duty and must then be excused for physical therapy or doctor visits in order to continue Transitional Duty and recover from a work-related injury, Continuation of Pay is payable while the employee is off the work site. The employee shall provide to his or her supervisor appropriate medical documentation supporting attendance. Appropriate medical documentation should include the date, time in and time out, and the medical provider’s signature.
64.06 Use of Continuation of Pay
Continuation of Pay is not payable for medical appointments once the employee is released to full duty, has exhausted all available Continuation of Pay.
An employee on Transitional Duty who has exhausted all available Continuation of Pay, may elect to use available paid leave or leave without pay if they are still unable to return to work.
64.07 Transitional Duty and Outside Job
An employee cannot work a second job within or outside of the District and work Transitional Duty unless approved by the Risk Manager.
The goal of Transitional Duty is to return the employee to his regular job and department, but other work within the department would be appropriate if the employee Is unable to do any part of his regular job. Work outside of his immediate department can be considered if work is not available within his department.
121
64.08 Refusal of Transitional Duty
64.08.1	If an employee is offered Transitional Duty and refuses a Transitional Duty
offer within his or her medical limitations, the employee is not eligible for Continuation of Pay. The employee will not be eligible for temporary total benefits from the Ohio Bureau of Workers' Compensation when a valid Transitional Duty offer has been made and declined. The District will notify the Ohio Bureau of Workers’ Compensation of any refusal to accept a Transitional Duty offer that is within the medical limitations.
64.08.2 An employee may elect to use sick leave, if the employee refuses Transitional Duty, but no buy-back of the leave taken shall occur. All leave taken for a work-related injury should be reviewed for FMLA qualification.
A Transitional Duty offer made to an employee refusing to return to work must be reduced to writing and sent by certified mail or hand delivered to the employee. If hand delivering the offer, be sure to obtain the injured workers signature and date received on the employees copy.
Time spent in Transitional Duty is considered time worked for employees still in their probationary period.
64.09 Maintaining Transitional Duty
To remain eligible for this COP/Transitional Pay, the Employee must cooperate with, meet when reasonably requested, and respond to information requests from the Managed Care Organization (MCO), Third-Party Administrator (TPA), Risk Manager, health providers, and his/her supervisor.
ARTICLE SIXTY-FIVE EFFECTS ON THE CONTRACT
65.01 Duration
One Year Contract. This CONTRACT shall be effective from July 1,2002 through -Jun3 30,2003. The BOARD or the ASSOCIATION will serve written notice on the other of its intention to either terminate, amend or modify this CONTRACT, not more than one hundred and twenty (120) and not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date. The BOARD and the Association agree to utilize an alternate settlement dispute procedure through the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, as opposed to the fact finding process contained in ORC 4117.14 (C) and under Ohio Administrative Code Rule 4117-9-05(B),(C).
The statutory notice requirement contained in ORC 4117.14 (D) (2) will remain in effect throughout tire negotiations.
65.02 Implementation
65.02.1 The BOARD and/or ADMINISTRATION agrees that it will not, during the period of this CONTRACT, officially adopt or implement any condition of employment affecting Professional Staff Members that is not contained within
122
this CONTRACT until such term or condition has been a subject of negotiations between the parties.
65.02.2 This CONTRACT supersedes any policy, rules, regulations or practices of the BOARD which may be contrary to or inconsistent with the terms of this CONTRACT.
65.02.3	At any time during the implementation of any aspect of this CONTRACT or in
any situation which may lead to the implementation of any aspect of this CONTRACT, a Professional Staff Member will have the right to ASSOCIATION representation.
65.02.4 The BOARD agrees that any changes in terms and conditions of employment of Professional Staff Members will be in accordance with the negotiated contract. If any terms or conditions need to be changed as a result of SB55, 3314.20 ORC and Rules 3301-35-10, the BOARD and the ASSOCIATION will meet to negotiate any changes in accordance with Article 65.02.1.
65.03 Grammatical Interpretation
In reference to the terms of this CONTRACT, whenever the singular is used, the plural is also understood.	.
65.04 Severability
If any provision of this CONTRACT or any application of this CONTRACT to the BOARD, the ADMINISTRATION, the ASSOCIATION, or to any Professional Staff Members who are covered by this CONTRACT is found to be contrary to law, then such provision or application shall not be deemed valid except to the extent permitted by law, and all other provisions of this CONTRACT shall continue in full force and effect.
That provision which has been found contrary to law shall be negotiated by the parties within thirty (30) days of such court decisions. Should the parties fail to reach agreement within sixty (60) days, the last best offer of both parties shall be submitted to expedited arbitration under the provisions of Article Three.
65.05 Non-Discrimination
Unless specifically stated otherwise, all aspects of this CONTRACT shall affect all Professional Staff Members equally and without qualification. The provisions of this CONTRACT shall be applied, and employees shall otherwise be treated without unlawful regard to the race, creed, color, religion, national origin, age, gender, handicap, sexual preference or marital status of any employee.
65.06 Management's Rights
All rights and powers heretofore possessed by the BOARD, except as otherwise specifically modified by express provisions of this CONTRACT, shall be retained solely and exclusively by the BOARD.
123
65.07 No Reprisals
The BOARD and the ASSOCIATION agree that there will be no reprisals of any kind taken against the employee for action taken relative to negotiations, and/or membership representation, and/or holding office in the ASSOCIATION, and/or for the formal filing of a grievance.
124
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties day of	. 2003. BOARD OF EDUCATION ^^^^^ITYSCHO^DI^RICT Dr. Percy^f Mack, Ph.D. Superintendent „	■ Gail Littlejohn, Esq. \ Board President s'ta^^EAju^s Treasurer /J6hn F. Lenehan^ Esq. ^ Designated Representative EJ&^ai^^ Team Member Ed Sweetnich Team Member LEGAL & LABOR ACTIVITIES APPROVED «	D0CUMENT/APPLICA1 ION	executed this CONTRACT this // -— DAYTON EDUCATION ASSOCIATION Willie A. Terrfell, Jr. Z	' President Don Messer Labor Relations Consultant, OEA Susan Coughnour	/ \ Negotiations Chair	f Sandra Lewis Team Member K. Kims^u Wa-Tenza	/! Team Member	” Shl^fe Wallace Team Member

INDEX
Topic	Page
125 Plan.........................................................................91
Absences During Night School.....................................................51
Account Records.................................................................-24
Accrual of Professional Leave Benefits...........................................62
Accrual of Sick Leave............................................................56
Accumulation of Assault Leave....................................................65
Accumulation of Leave............................................................66
Accumulation of Sabbatical Leave.................................................63
Accumulation of Seniority........................................................34
Accumulation of Sick Leave.......................................................55
Accumulation of Unpaid Child Care Leave..........................................68
Ad Hoc Committee on Accountability...............................................47
Additional Coverage..............................................................91
Additional Funeral Leave.........................................................61
Administrative Concems/Complaints Regarding Professional Staff Members...........44
Adult Basic and Literacy Education (ABLE)......................................  52
Advancement of Sick Leave........................................................56
Agenda and Meeting of Faculty Council............................................22
Agree to Negotiate LPDC........................................................  54
Altering of School Calendar......................................................17
Amount and Purpose of Professional Activities Fund...............................23
Anonymous Material...............................................................35
Appeal of LPDC Decision..........................................................54
Application for Assault Leave....................................................65
Application for Funeral Leave..................................................  61
Application for Professional Leave Benefits......................................62
Application for Sabbatical Leave...............................................  63
Application for Unpaid Child Care Leave..........................................68
Applications for Summer School...................................................48
Approval of Plans................................................................54
Assault Leave Chargeability......................................................66
Assault..........................................................................45
Assignment of Adjunct Staff......................................................40
Assignment of Students during lEPs...............................................33
Assignment of Students during Three-year Re-Evaluation...........................33
Assignment on Return from Extended Sick Leave....................................56
Assignment Upon Return from Assault Leave........................................66
Assignment Upon Return from Child Care Leave.....................................68
Assignment Upon Return from Leave for Special Government Assignment..............70
Assignment Upon Return from Military Leave.......................................69
Assignment Upon Return from Sabbatical Leave.....................................64
Assignment Upon Return from Unpaid Medical Leave..................................67
Additional Preparation Time.....................................................115
Additional Record Keeping Time..................................................115
Assessment of Long-Term Reserve Teacher.........................................116
126
Topic
Page
Association Dues.....................................................................107
Association Leave...................................................................  15
Association Rights.....................................................................5
Athletic Supplemental Contract Positions to be posted annually:.......................82
Athletic Supplemental Contracts..................................................'....81
Attendance in Court...................................................................60
Automatic Nonrenewal.................................................................116
Auxiliary Services Defined...........................................................117
Bargaining History....................................................................10
Bargaining Unit Defined................................................................4
Breaking of Seniority.................................................................34
Breaking the Seniority Ties.........................................................  34
Calculation of Part Time Status......................................................112
Cancellation of Pay..................................................................115
Cash Option...........................................................................91
Change in Assignment..................................................................40
Changing School Procedures............................................................22
Civil Disturbance.....................................................................43
Class Size of a Combined Grade Level Class............................................26
Class Size...........................................................................113
Classroom Materials..................................................................113
Clustering..........................................................................  53
Concern Procedure.....................................................................10
Confidentiality of Files............................................................. 36
Confidentiality.......................................................................85
Conflicts with Summer School Schedule.................................................50
Consensus Decision Making...........................................................  54
Continuation of Coverage..............................................................92
Continuation of Pay (COP)............................................................118
Contract...............................................................................9
Contracts for Summer School...........................................................48
Coordination of Transitional Duty....................................................121
Copies of Contract.....................................................................7
Copies of Material in Personnel File..................................................36
Counselors and Speech Therapists.....................................................117
Counselor's Immediate Supervisor.....................................................Ill
Counselor's Working Conditions.......................................................111
Coverage While on Leave...............................................................90
Curriculum Committees...............................................................  99
Date for Determination of Class Size..................................................26
Days Defined..........................................................................10
Definition of Academic Freedom........................................................27
Definition of Professional Accountability.............................................46
Definition of School Day..............................................................17
Definition of Seniority...............................................................34
Definition of Work Year.............................................................  16
Dental Benefits.......................................................................88
127
T
Topic	Page
Departmentalization.................................................................52
Description Requirement.............................................................16
Determination of Monthly Premium....................................................90
Determination of School Calendar and Pay Dates......................................17
Development of lEPs................................................................116
Development of School Discipline Procedures.........................................42
Directory..........................................................................  7
Disagreement.......................................................................  9
Displacement Due to Pupil Enrollment/Program Reduction and/or Staff Realignment.....39
Displacement for Conversion Community School........................................32
Donation to Sick Leave Bank.........................................................58
Dress Code..........................................................................29
Due Process Procedure...............................................................84
Duration.........................................................................  122
Duties of Paraprofessionals During Special Activity Class...........................25
Effect on Salary................................................................... 61
Electronic Transfers...............................................................108
Eligibility for COP................................................................ 119
Eligibility for Severance..........................................................108
Eligibility for Sick Leave Bank.....................................................59
Elimination of Sick Leave..........................................................109
Employment While on an Unpaid Medical Leave.........................................67
Employment While on Sabbatical Leave................................................64
Employment While on Special Government Assignment Leave.............................70
Employment While on Unpaid Child Care Leave.........................................68
Entitlement to Assault Leave........................................................64
Entitlement to Leave for National and State Officers of Associations Travel or Professional
Study..........................................................................71
Entitlement to Leave for Special Governmental Assignments...........................69
Entitlement to Leave................................................................61
Entitlement to Sabbatical Leave.....................................................62
Entitlement to Unpaid Child Care Leave..............................................68
Entitlement to Unpaid Medical Leave.................................................66
Entitlement to Unpaid Military Leave................................................69
Entry Year Program..................................................................31
Environment.........................................................................27
Establishing Year-Round.............................................................32
Establishment of a Personnel File...................................................34
Establishment of Rates of Compensation.............................................109
Establishment of Sick Leave Bank....................................................58
Evaluation of Library Needs........................................................Ill
Evaluation Process..................................................................73
Exclusions of the Bargaining Unit....................................................4
Expansion Committee.................................................................21
Extended Faculty Meetings.........................................................  26
Extra-Curricular Activities.........................................................99
Facility Council....................................................................29
128
T
Topic	Page
Faculty Council Representatives......................................................23
Faculty Council Responsibilities.....................................................23
Faculty Council.....................................................................117
Failure to Meet Accountability Requirements..........................................47
Fair Share Fee........................................................................7
Filing Timeline......................................................................11
Filling of Vacancies in Conversion Community School..................................31
Flexible Spending Account - Medical Reimbursement....................................91
Flexible Time........................................................................116
FMLA Entitlement.....................................................................67
Framework Goal.......................................................................73
Freedom of Individual Expression.................................................... 27
Fundraising Constraints and Accountability.........................................  29
Grammatical Interpretation..........................................................123
Grievance Definition.................................................................10
Grievance Representative.............................................................11
Handbook for Auxiliary Service......................................................117
Handbooks..........................................................................  21
Holidays............................................................................115
Hourly Salaried......................................................................98
Hours of Assignment.................................................................114
Implementation of Goals.............................................................Ill
Inclusion of Materials into the File.................................................35
Incorporation into Contract........................................................  16
Informal Warning.....................................................................84
Information on Supplemental Contract.................................................37
Information Required on Contract.....................................................36
Information Required on Salary Notice................................................37
Initiation of Negotiations............................................................8
Instructional Period................................................................112
Insurance on Leave.................................................................. 56
Insurance Provided in Summer.........................................................90
Insurances While on Sabbatical.......................................................64
Insurances...........................................................................65
Intersession.........................................................................32
Involuntary Transfer (Principal and Administration Initiated)........................39
Involuntary Transfer Due to Cause....................................................39
Issuance of Employment CONTRACT......................................................36
Joint Discipline Committee...........................................................46
Judgment involved in Academic Freedom................................................27
Jurisdiction.........................................................................80
Just Cause...........................................................................80
Library Schedule....................................................................Ill
Library/Media Budget................................................................Ill
Life Insurance.......................................................................88
Limitation of Assignment.............................................................37
Limitations on Observers.............................................................45
129
1
Topic	Page
List of Payroll Deductions..........................................................106
LPDC Committee Training..............................................................54
Maintaining Transitional Duty.......................................................122
Management's Rights.................................................................123
Media Releases......................................................................-.9
Medical and Dental Enrollment........................................................85
Meetings............................................................................  9
Membership of Faculty Council........................................................22
Miscellaneous........................................................................14
Movement to New Bargaining Unit.....................................................115
Negotiations Representatives..........................................................9
New Professional Staff Member Orientation............................................30
Night School Application............................................................ 51
Night School Cancellation............................................................51
Night School Defined.................................................................51
Night School Registration............................................................51
Night School Sick Leave..............................................................56
No Reprisal..........................................................................15
Non-Discrimination..................................................................123
Non-Renewal of Limited Contract at the End of Its Term.............................  80
Non-Renewal of Non-Probationary Limited Contract.....................................80
Non-Renewal of Probationary Limited Contract.........................................80
Notification of Adjustment to Association............................................11
Number of Pays.......................................................................17
Nurses Meetings.....................................................................110
Nurses' Planning Time...............................................................110
Nurses' Use of Clerical Services....................................................110
Nursing Supplies....................................................................110
Nursing Work Environment............................................................110
Openings for Summer School...........................................................48
Parent Complaints Against Professional Staff Members.................................44
Participation in the Sick Leave Bank.................................................58
Pay and Extended Time of Special Education Work Study Coordinators..................116
Payment for Extended Time...........................................................109
Peer Assistance......................................................................79
Personal Leave......................................................................115
Philosophy of a Cooperating Professional Staff Member................................30
Phone Facilities.....................................................................28
Physical/Mental Examinations Procedure...............................................83
Placement on Salary Schedule........................................................115
Posting of Agenda for Faculty Meeting................................................26
Processing of Grievances.............................................................11
Professional Accountability Requirements.............................................46
Professional Development Committee...................................................53
Professional Leave Benefits..........................................................62
Professional Staff Member Referrals of Student Discipline............................45
Professional Staff Member’s Day....................................................  18
130
Topic
Page
Professional Staff Members Use of Equipment..........................................28
Progressive Discipline...............................................................84
Provision of Materials for Student Teacher...........................................30
Purging of the Files.................................................................36
Purpose of Faculty Council......................................................^....	22
Purpose of Faculty Meetings..........................................................26
Recognition...........................................................................4
Reduction in Night School............................................................52
Reduction of Summer School Staff.....................................................50
Refusal of Transitional Duty........................................................122
Release Time for lEPs................................................................33
Release time for Three-year Re-Evaluations...........................................33
Removal of Students................................,.................................43
Reopening of Negotiations............................................................10
Replacement of Withdrawal............................................................59
Reporting Negotiation Progress......................................................  9
Representation........................................................................4
Required After Hours Functions.......................................................21
Required Consent to be a Cooperating Professional Staff Member.......................30
Required Health Examinations or Vaccinations.........................................84
Requirement for Extended Time.......................................................109
Requirement for Library/Media Centers...............................................Ill
Requirements of Professional Accountability..........................................46
Requirements of STRS Pick-Up........................................................106
Reserve Duty.........................................................................61
Reserve Nurses......................................................................110
Resolution of Academic Freedom.......................................................27
Resource Centers....................................................................114
Restricted Personal Leave Benefits...................................................59
Review of Personnel File.............................................................36
Right to File a Grievance............................................................14
Right to Representation..............................................................14
Right to Request Medical Examination.................................................82
Rights of Conversion Community School Teachers.......................................32
Role of School Discipline Committee and Professional Staff Member Protection.........45
Rotation of Non-Instructional Duties.................................................29
Salary Schedule Advancement for Graduate Hours.....................................  97
Salary Schedule Advancement for Staff Development and Committee Work.................97
Scheduling of Work Days.............................................................116
School year..........................................................................37
Scope of Negotiations...............................................................  9
Securing of Reserve Teachers........................................................ 20
Selected Professional Development....................................................76
Seniority for Summer School and Summer Programs......................................48
Seniority on Sick Leave............................................................  56
Seniority While on Leave.........................................................    34
Seniority While on Sabbatical........................................................64
131
Topic
Page
Seniority While on Unpaid Medical Leave.............................................67
Seniority...........................................................................65
Severability.......................................................................123
Severance Account..................................................................109
Severance Rights.................................................................*.	108
Sick Leave Accumulation.............................................................50
Sick leave for night school shall accumulate according to Subsection 33.09.1........51
Sick Leave While on Worker's Compensation...........................................57
Special Classes.....................................................................25
Special Education Classes...........................................................25
Staff Development Compensation......................................................99
Staff Development Programs.........................................................114
Steering Committee.................................................................113
Strategic Professional Development..................................................76
STRS Pick-Up.......................................................................106
Student Discipline Policy...........................................................43
Summer School Appointments..........................................................49
Summer School Evaluation............................................................50
Summer School Sick Leave............................................................57
Summer School Working Conditions..............................................      49
Supplemental Contracts..............................................................81
Supplies............................................................................28
Support Staff Day...................................................................20
System Overview.....................................................................73
Temporary Adjustment................................................................20
Termination of Assignment as a Cooperating Professional Staff Member................30
Termination of Continuing Contract or Limited Contract During Its Term..............79
Termination of Military Leave.......................................................69
Timeline for Submission of Reports..................................................29
Transfer - General Provisions.......................................................38
Transfer of Small Group Instructors................................................113
Transitional Duty and Outside Job..................................................121
Transitional Duty..................................................................120
Traveling Staff - Number of Building Assignments....................................20
Unpaid Leave for Service in a Community School......................................72
Unrestricted Personal Leave Benefits................................................59
Usage of Personal Leave.............................................................59
Usage of Sick Leave.................................................................55
Use of Assigned Paraprofessionals..................................................113
Use of Continuation of Pay.........................................................121
Use of Facilities...................................................................15
Vacancies in Conversion Community Schools...........................................31
Vocational Professional Staff Member Placement......................................96
Voluntary Professional Staff Member Transfer........................................38
Waiver of Extended Contract.........................................................32
Weekly Building Calendar............................................................22
Withdrawal from Sick Leave Bank.....................................................58
132
Topic
Page
Work Day for Auxiliary Service...................................................117
Work Environment of Small Group Instructors......................................112
Work Environment.................................................................114
Work Year of Auxiliary Services..................................................117
Worker's Compensation while on Assault Leave.................................:....66
Working Conditions................................................................51
Written Proposals and Counter-Proposals............................................9
133
APPENDIX FORMS
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Please Complete
Observation Number
Clinical Report
Final Report
This form is to be used for all
Level i: Initial Entry Year Evaluations
and may be used for
Level it: Selected Professional Development Staff evaluations
T eacher’s Name_______________________________________
School_________________________________________________
Grade Level/Subject____________________________________
Evaluator’s Name_______________________________________
School Year____________________________________________
1 of 8
9/18/02

______________PRE-QBSERVATION INTERVIEW FORM
1.	How do you become familiar with students’ background, knowledge and experience, (provide evidence)
2.	What are your goals for this lesson? What do you want the student to learn?
3.	How do you plan to engage the students in the content? What will you do? What will the students do? (include time estimates)
4.	What instructional methods, activities, material and/or resources will you use?
5.	How do you plan to assess student achievement of the goals? What procedures will you use? (Attach any tests or performance tasks, with accompanying scoring guides or rubrics.)
2 Of
CLASSROOM OBSERVATION DATA COLLECTION FORM
INSTRUCTIONS: Use this form to collect and record evidence. Please rate the teacher's performance on any of the 19 criteria for which you feel you have appropriate data. Refrain from scoring criteria for which you do not have data. Classroom observation(s) will focus on evidence of Domains B and C.
U = Unsatisfactory B = Basic P = Proficient D = Distinguished N/O = Not Observed
Domain A: Organizing content knowledge for Student Learning.
CRITERIA	EVIDENCE	RATING
1-A Becoming familiar with Relevant aspects of students’ background knowledge and experiences.		
2-A Articulating clear learning goals for the lesson that are appropriate to the students.		
3-A Demonstrating an understanding of the connections between previously learned content, current content, and future content.		
4-A Creating or selecting teaching methods, learning activities, and instructional materials or other resources that are appropriate to the students and that are aligned with the goals of the lesson.		
5-A Creating or selecting evaluation strategies that are appropriate for the students and that are aligned with the goals of the lesson.		
DOMAIN A: SUMMARY STATEMENT
3 of 8
9/18/02
3
CLASSROOM OBSERVATION DATA COLLECTION FORM
INSTRUCTIONS: Use this form to collect and record evidence. Please rate the teacher's performance on any of the 19 criteria for which you feel you have appropriate data. Refrain from scoring criteria for which you do not have data. Classroom observation(s) will focus on evidence of Domains B and C.
U = Unsatisfactory B = Basic P = Proficient D = Distinguished N/O = Not Observed
Domain B: Creating an Environment for Student Learning.
CRITERIA	EVIDENCE RATING
1-B Creating a climate that promotes fairness.		
2-B Establishing and maintaining a rapport with students.		
3-B Communicating challenging learning expectations to each student		
4-B Establishing and maintaining consistent standards of classroom behavior.		
5-B Making the physical environment safe and conducive to learning.		
DOMAIN B: SUMMARY STATEMENT
4 OF
9/18/02
CLASSROOM OBSERVATION DATA COLLECTION FORM
INSTRUCTIONS: Use this form to collect and record evidence. Please rate the teacher's performance on any of the 19 criteria for which you feel you have appropriate data. Refrain from scoring criteria for which you do not have data. Classroom observation(s) will focus on evidence of Domains B and C.
U = Unsatisfactory B = Basic P = Proficient D = Distinguished N/O = Not Observed
Domain C: Teaching for Student Learning.
|	CRITERIA	EVIDENCE	1	RATING
		
1-C Making learning goals and Instructional procedures clear to students.	*	
2-C Making content comprehensible to students.		
3-C Encouraging students to extend their thinking.		
4-C	’ Monitoring students’ understanding of content, providing feedback, and adjusting learning activities as appropriate.		
5-C Using instructional time effectively.		
DOMAIN C: SUMMARY STATEMENT
iF 8
32
5 OF 8
9/18/02
CLASSROOM OBSERVATION DATA COLLECTION FORM
INSTRUCTIONS: Use this form to collect and record evidence. Please rate the teacher’s performance on any of the 19 criteria for which you feel you have appropriate data. Refrain from scoring criteria for which you do not have data. Classroom observation(s) will focus on evidence of Domains B and C.
U = Unsatisfactory B = Basic P = Proficient D = Distinguished N/O = Not Observed
Domain D: Teacher Professionalism.
CRITERIA	EVIDENCE	RATING
		
1-D Reflecting on the extent to which learning goals were met.		
2-D Demonstrating a sense of efficacy.		
3-D Building professional relationships with colleagues to share teaching insights and to coordinate learning activities for students.	• ■	
4-D Communicating with parents or guardians about students learning.		
DOMAIN D: SUMMARY STATEMENT
6 OF I
9/18/02
_______________________POST-OBSERVATION REFLECTION
1.	To what extent did students achieve the stated goals of the lesson?
2.	In your judgement, what instructional activities (or materials) were effective? Ineffective? Explain.
3.	Have you communicated with the parents or guardians of the students in this class? If so, how and for what reasons?
4.	Are you involved in any school or district projects, committees, or extra-duty assignments that you would like me to know about?
5.	Are there any professional development activities you are currently involved with that you would like me to know about?
7 OF 8
9/18/02
Level I: Initial Entry Year evaluations And may be used for • Level II: Selected Professional Development staff evaluations
Evaluator’s Name
Teacher’s Name__________________________________
Summary Statement of Evaluator		Summary Statement of Teacher
Evaluator’s Recommendation(s)
Evaluator's Signature	Date	Teacher's Signature	Date
(Signature indicates completion of the appraisal process: not necessarily consensus.)	8 OF 8
.	9/18/02
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Dayton Public Schools
LEVEL II: Strategic Professional Development
Teacher(s) Name(s) 1.___________________________________________________
"	3.	___________________________________________
Evaluator(s) Name(s) 1._________________________________________________
2.______________________________________________________________________
4._________________________________________________t____________________
2.____________________________________________________________________
School
Project Begins
Project Ends
Exploration
1.	PROPOSAL ABSTRACT: Briefly describe the proposed Strategic Professional Development project Please include a description of what form(s)of inquiry you will employ.
2.	ANTICIPATED IMPACT: Briefly describe how this project will enhance your professional knowledge of curriculum, instruction, principles of learning, or evaluation of effective programs for all learners.
1 of 4
9/18/02

DEVELOPMENT
3.	Briefly describe what resources you will employ to develop and support this project.
4.	What measurable or observable evidence will constitute successful completion of this project?
(Projects that extend beyond a single school year should include interim objectives that will provide evidence of progress toward project completion.) •
DISSEMINATION
5.	Please describe how you will share the results of this project to help make teaching more public, encourage norms of improvement, and enhance the professional culture of the schooi.
2 Of
9/18/C
LEVEL II: STRATEGIC PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINAL REPORT
6.	In the space provided, describe the final results of this project Please make recommendations on how the progress or findings of this project could be extended to have a greater impact on teacher growth and student achievement.
EVALUATOR RESPONSE
TEACHER RESPONSE
4
2
Evaluator’s Signature
Date
Teacher’s Signature
Date
3 Of 4 9/18/02
PLANNING CONFERENCE - Completed by October 1
st
Consultation Date 
Teacher(s) Initials
Evaluator’s Initials
Consultation Date.
Teacher(s) Initials
Evaluator's Initials
COMMENTS
COMMENTS
Consultation Date
Teacher(s) Initials------------—
Evaluator’s Initials--------------
COMMENTS
ASSESSMENT CONFERENCE - Completed by April 1“
Consultation Date________.	COMMENTS
Teacher(s) Initials Evaluator’s lnitials_______
4 oH
9/18/02
I
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Dayton Public Schools
LEVEL II: Selected Professional Development
Personal Performance Goals
Teacher’s Name School Grade Level/Subject
Evaluator’s Name School Year Date
DOMAIN AND CRITERIA	PERFORMANCE GOAL(S)	STRATEGIES	INDICATOR(S) OF SUCCESS
			
			
■			
1 of2
9/18/02
LEVEL II: STRATEGIC PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINAL REPORT
Personal Performance Goals
EVALUATOR RESPONSE
TEACHER(S) RESPONSE
Evaluator's Signature
Teacher's Signature
Date
Date
(Signatures indicate completion of the appraisal process: not necessarily consensus.)
2 Of 2
9/18/02
DAYTON
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Dayton Public Schools
LEVEL II: Strategic Professional Development
Teacher(s) Name(s) 1..
3.
Evaluator(s) Name(s) 1..
School
I .
Project Begins
Project Ends
Exploration
1.	PROPOSAL ABSTRACT: Briefly describe the proposed Strategic Professional Development project Please include a description of what form(s)of inquiry you will employ.
2.	ANTICIPATED IMPACT: Briefly describe how this project will enhance your professional knowledge of curriculum, instruction, principles of learning, or evaluation of effective programs for all learners.
f2
2
1 of 4
9/18/02
DEVELOPMENT
3.	Briefly describe what resources you will employ to develop and support this project.
4.	What measurable or observable evidence will constitute successful completion of this project?
(Projects that extend beyond a single school year should include interim objectives that will provide evidence of progress toward project completion.)
DISSEMINATION
5.	Please describe how you will share the results of this project to help make teaching more public, encourage norms of improvement, and enhance the professional culture of the school.
2 of 4
9/18/02
LEVEL II: STRATEGIC PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINAL REPORT
6. In the space provided, describe the final results of this project. Please make recommendations on how the progress or findings of this project could be extended to have a greater impact on teacher growth and student achievement.
EVALUATOR RESPONSE
TEACHER RESPONSE
f4
02
Teacher’s Signature
Date
3 Of 4 9/18/02
PLANNING CONFERENCE - Completed by October 1st
COMMENTS
Consultation Date________
Teacher(s) Initials
Evaluator’s Initials
PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Dayton Public Schools
LEVEL II: Selected Professional Development
Personal Performance Goals
Teacher’s Name School Grade Level/Subject
Evaluator’s Name School Year Date
DOMAIN AND CRITERIA	PERFORMANCE GOAL(S)	STRATEGIES	INDICATOR(S) OF SUCCESS
			
	■ - ■		. ■ - -- .
		■	
1 0f2
9/18/02
—4! '
LEVEL II: STRATEGIC PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINAL REPORT
Personal Performance Goals
EVALUATOR RESPONSE
TEACHER(S) RESPONSE
Evaluator’s Signature
Date
Teacher's Signature
Date
(Signatures indicate completion of the appraisal process: not necessarily consensus.)
2 Of 2
9/18/02
Dayton Public Schools - Classroom Observation Scoring Rubric
Instructions:	Please rate the teacher’s performances on any of the 19 criteria for which you feel you have appropriate data. Refrain from scoring criteria for which you do not
have data Please use the language of the Classroom Observation Scoring Rubric when writing summary statements.
1 DOMAIN A: Organizing Content Knowledge for Student Learning	•				
CRITERIA	UNSATISFACTORY	BASIC	PROFICIENT	DISTINGUSHED
1-A Becoming familiar with relevant aspects of students’ background knowledge and experiences.	The teacher demonstrates a lack of understanding of why it is important to become familiar with students’ background experiences, does not know how to find this information, and lacks familiarity with students’ background experiences.	The teacher demonstrates some । understanding of why it is important to become familiar with students’ background experiences, describes one procedure used to obtain this information and has some familiarity with the background knowledge and experiences of students in class.	The teacher demonstrates a comprehensive understanding of why it is important to become familiar with students’ background experiences, describes several procedures used to obtain this information, and demonstrates a clear understanding of students’ background knowledge and experiences.	The teacher actively displays understanding and knowledge of the importance of individual student’s background, interests and cultural heritage including those with special needs, and has a broad knowledge of appropriate ways of gaining such knowledge.
2-A Articulating clear learning goals for the lesson that are appropriate to the students.	The teacher does not articulate clear learning goals or the teacher has chosen goals that are inappropriate for the students.	The teacher articulates clear learning goals that are appropriate for the students.	’	The teacher articulates clear learning goals and provides a well-thought out explanation of why they are appropriate for the students or the teacher articulates clear learning goals that are appropriate for the students and are differentiated for groups or individual students in the class.	Not only are goals clear, appropriate, and differentiated for individuals and groups, but the teacher can clearly articulate how goals establish high expectations and relate to curriculum frameworks and standards.	'
3-A Demonstrating an understanding of the connections between previously learned content, current content, and future content.	The teacher displays little understanding of how the content of this lesson relates to the content of previous or future lessons OR the understanding is illogical or inaccurate.	The teacher indicates some awareness of how the content of this lesson relates to the content of previous and/or future lessons.	The teacher’s plans and practices reflect an understanding of the relationship between past and future learning and how the content of this lesson fits in the structure of the discipline.	The teacher actively builds on the sequential and linear relationships of knowledge when describing instruction or seeking causes for students misunderstanding.
4-A Creating or selecting teaching methods, learning activities, and instructional materials or other resources that are appropriate to the students and that are aligned with the goals of the lesson.	The teacher chooses methods, activities, or materials that are unrelated to the goals of the lesson or that are inappropriate to the students.	Some of the chosen methods, activities, and materials support the instructional goals, and some engage students in meaningful learning.	All of the materials, activities, and instructional materials support the instructional goals, and most engage the students in meaningful learning.	All of the material, activities, and instructional materials support differentiated learning experiences for individuals and most engage the students in meaningful learning. There is evidence of student participation in selecting or adapting materials.
5-A Creating or selecting evaluation strategies that are appropriate for the students and that are aligned with the goals of the lesson.	The teacher has not provided for systematically evaluating student learning in relation to instructional goals; evaluation has no clear standards or criteria; is inappropriate to the students.	Assessment criteria and standards have been developed, but they are either not clear or have not been clearly communicated to students.	The teacher has developed assessment criteria and standards that are clear and appropriate and that have been communicated to the students.	Assessment criteria and standards are clear and appropriate; aligned with the goals of the lesson and there is evidence the results of evaluation are used in planning future instruction.
Based on Enhancing Professional Practice: A Framework For Teaching, Charlotte Danielson (1996) and Pathwise Classroom Observation System, Educational Testing
Service (1995).	'
Dayton Public Schools — Classroom Observation Scoring Rubric
Instructions:	Please rate the teacher’s performances on any of the 19 criteria for which you feel you have appropriate data. Refrain from scoring criteria for which you do not
have data. Please use the language of the Classroom Observation Scoring Rubric when writing summary statements.
DOMAIN B: Creating an Environment for Student Learning	•				
CRITERIA	UNSATISFACTORY	BASIC	PROFICIENT	DISTINGUISHED
1-B Creating a climate that promotes fairness.	Teacher is unfair in the treatment of students or the teacher tolerates student interactions that are characterized by conflict, sarcasm, or put-downs.	The teacher is generally fair in the treatment of students though there may be some inconsistencies, favoritism or disregard for cultural diversity. Students do not demonstrate negative behavior toward one another.	Teacher-student interactions are friendly and demonstrate general warmth, caring, and respect. Such interactions are developmentally and culturally appropriate.	The teacher is fair and demonstrates caring and respect for individual students. Students demonstrate respect for the teacher as an individual.
2-B Establishing and maintaining a rapport with students.	The teacher does not attempt to establish a rapport with students or the teacher’s attempts are inappropriate.	The teacher establishes a basic level of rapport with the students but may still demonstrate occasional inconsistencies of appropriateness or respect.	The teacher and students demonstrate rapport through genuine caring and respect for each other as individuals.	The teacher successfully establishes rapport in ways that are appropriate to students’ diverse backgrounds and needs.
3-B Communicating challenging learning expectations to each student.	The teacher communicates explicitly or implicitly to individuals or groups that they are incapable of learning that the content is not important or is mandated by others.	The teacher communicates importance of work but with little conviction and minimal student buy in. Teacher conveys inconsistent expectations for student achievement.	Teacher conveys genuine enthusiasm for subject through instructional goals, activities, and interactions that establish high expectations for students.	Both students and teacher establish and maintain through planning of learning activities, interactions, and the classroom environment high expectations for the learning of all students.
4-B Establishing and maintaining consistent standards of classroom behavior.	Student behavior is not monitored. Teacher does not respond to disruptive behavior, or the response is inconsistent, overly repressive, or does not respect the student’s dignity	Standards of conduct appear to have been established and the teacher attempts to respond to disruptive behavior but with uneven results, or no serious disruptive behavior occurs.	Standards of conduct are clear to all students and teacher generally responds to misbehavior appropriately and successfully or student behavior is generally appropriate.	Standards are clear, teacher response is consistent, appropriate, and highly effective while sensitive to individual needs or student behavior is entirely appropriate.
5-B Making the physical environment safe and conducive to learning.	The classroom is unsafe or the physical environment interferes with the lesson or both.	The classroom is safe and the physical environment is adjusted for the lesson, or if necessary a lesson is adjusted to the environment, but with limited effectiveness.	The classroom is safe and the teacher uses environment as a resource for learning activities.	The classroom is safe. Both teacher and students use the space optimally to ensure that leaning is equally accessible to all learners.
Based on Enhancing Professional Practice: A Framework For Teaching, Charlotte Danielson (1996) and Pathwise Classroom Observation System, Educational Testing
Service (1995).
Dayton Public Schools - Classroom Observation Scoring Rubric
Instructions:	Please rate the teachefs performances on any of the 19 criteria for which you feel you have appropriate data. Refrain from scoring criteria for which you do not
have data. Please use the language of the Classroom Observation Scoring Rubric when writing summary statements.
DOMAIN C: Teaching for Student Learning				
CRITERIA	UNSATISFACTORY	BASIC	PROFICIENT	DISTINGUISHED
1-C Making learning goals and instructional procedures clear to students.	Teacher directions and procedures are confusing to students or the teacher gives inaccurate information about goals and procedures.	Teacher directions and procedures are clarified after initial student confusion or are excessively detailed.	Teacher directions and procedures are clear and contain an appropriate level of detail that students seem to understand.	Teacher directions and procedures are clear to all students and anticipate possible student misunderstanding. Students understand learning goals fully.
2-C Making content comprehensible to students.	The content appears to be incomprehensible to students, is unclear or contains substantive inaccuracies.	Representation of the content is inconsistent, some is done well with good examples; other portions are difficult to follow.	Content is accurate and links will with the students’ knowledge and experience and appears to be comprehensible to the students.	Content is accurate and links well with the students’ knowledge and experience and students contribute to representation of content.
3-C Encouraging students to extend their thinking.	The teacher discourages students from thinking independently, creatively, or critically.	The teacher encourages students to think independently, creatively, or critically in the context of the content being studied but with limited success.	Teacher successfully uses activities or strategies that are specifically designed to encourage critical, independent, and creative thought about the content being taught.	Students assume considerable responsibility in the development and use of strategies that actively encourage independent, creative, and critical thought.
4-C Monitoring students’ understanding of content, providing feedback and adjusting learning activities as appropriate.	Teacher makes no attempt to determine students’ understanding and feedback is either non-existent or of poor quality.	Teacher monitors student understanding of content but feedback is inconsistent in quality: some high quality, some not.	Teacher monitors student understanding of the content and feedback is consistently high quality.	Teacher monitors individual students’ or groups of students’ understanding of the content and makes appropriate instructional adjustments. Feedback is consistently high quality.
5-C	•> Using instructional time effectively.	Substantial amounts of instructional time are spent on activities of little instructional value or the pacing of the lesson is inappropriate to the content or the students.	The pacing of the lesson is appropriate for most of the students. Non-instructional procedural matters do not occupy an excessive amount of time.	Teacher provides activities of instructional value for entire time and paces them appropriately. Routines are handled with little loss of instructional time.	Group and students working independently are productively engaged in valuable, well-paced instructional activities. Students assume considerable responsibility for the completion of non-instructional routines.
Duklin
Based on Enhancing Professional Practice: A Framework For Teaching, Charlotte Danielson (1996) and Pathwise Classroom Observation System, Educational Testing
Service (1995).	.
""""""“‘S?J^xonl,,jPiiCTic^clTooTs,^l^Cl^	jgUiimiiliiiilLiH^ ■« mi..	...
Instructions:	Please rate the teacher’s performances on any of the 19 criteria for which you feel you have appropriate data. Refrain from scoring criteria for which you do not
have data Please use the language of the Classroom Observation Scoring Rubric when writing summary statements.
DOMAIN D: Teacher Professionalism				
CRITERIA	UNSATISFACTORY	BASIC	PROFICIENT	DISTINGUISHED
1-D Reflecting on the extent to which learning goals were met.	The teacher cannot accurately identify strengths and weaknesses of the lesson’s learning goals or profoundly misjudges the success of a lesson.	Teacher has a generally accurate impression of strengths and weakness of the lesson and its effectiveness in relation to the learning goals	Teacher accurately describes the strength and weaknesses of the lesson in relation to the learning goals and cites general references to support the judgement. .	Teacher makes thoughtful and accurate assessment of lesson effectiveness citing specific evidence from the observed lesson.
2-D Demonstrating a sense of efficacy.	The teacher makes no attempt to find ways to help students who are not meeting the learning goals.	The teacher’s attempts to find ways to help students meet learning goals are inconsistent.	The teacher attempts to find specific ways to help students who are not meeting the learning goals, but cannot specify any practical actions that he or she has not already tried.	Teacher suggests specific, practical actions that he or she intends to take to help specific students who are not meeting the learning goals.
3-D Building professional relationships with colleagues to share teaching insights and to coordinate learning activities for students.	The teacher demonstrates no knowledge of resources available through colleagues in the school district or the teacher is aware of such resources but does not attempt to use them.	Teacher participates in professional development activities to a limited extent when they are convenient.	The teacher seeks out opportunities for professional development and resources, and attempts to consult with colleagues when necessary on matters related to learning and instruction.	The teacher seeks out opportunities for professional development and collaborates with colleagues outside of his or her own classroom to coordinate learning activities or to address concerns related to teaching.
4-D Communicating with parent or guardians about student learning.	Teacher demonstrates no knowledge of forms of communication that he or she can use to communicate with parents or the teacher makes no attempt to communicate even when necessary.	Teacher makes modest and inconsistent attempts to • communicate with parents or guardians.	Teacher demonstrates knowledge of forms of communication that can be used with parents and guardians for various reasons.	The teacher frequently provides information to parents in a variety of formats on both positive and negative aspects of student progress. Parent concern is handled with sensitivity.
Based on Enhancing Professional Practice: A Framework For Teaching, Charlotte Danielson (1996) and Pathwise Classroom Observation System, Educational Testing
Service (1995).	.
APPENDIX B
ayton ruotic scnoois — Classroom uoservaiion scoring Kuuric
RECOMMENDED FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF COUNSELOR PERFORMANCE IN THE DAYTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
COUNSELOR PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
INSTRUCTIONS
1.	Based on the evidence from observation and discussion, the observer/assessor is to assess the counselor's performance with respect to die ten major functions of counseling listed below.
2.	The observer/assessor must add pertinent comments at the end of each major function when unsatisfactory is marked.
3.	The counselor is provided an opportunity to react to the observer's/assessor's observation and comments.
4.	The observer/assessor and the counselor must discuss the results of the assessment and any recommended action pertinent to it.
5.	The counselor and observer/assessor must sign the instrument in the assigned spaces. The signature does not indicate agreement.
6.	The instrument must be filed in the counselor's personnel folder.
7.	The assessment categories will be as follows:
Satisfactory: The counselor performs the scope of competence in a recognizably consistent manner in instructional and non-instructional duties.
Unsatisfactory: The	does not maintain a consistent demonstration of
the scope of competencies in counseling and non-counseling duties. Counseling practices do not meet acceptable performance expectations.
No Opportunity to Observe (N/O): For purposes of this observation, these behaviors or functions were not observed.
SATIS- UNSATIS- N/O FACTORY FACTORY
1.	Major Function: Informational Services
1.1	Counselor provides access to	  
current vocational and career information, including non-txadltinroil careers
1-2 Counselor provides access to	________ ___________ 
future education and training information
1.3	Counselor provides access to	 ______ 
special education programs information
1.4	Counselor provides access to	 ___________________ 
personal and social development information, including substance abuse and chemical dependency
Weaknesses:
Recommendations for Tmprtwemmt:_______________________________________________
Commendations:.
SATIS- UNSATIS- N/O FACTORY FACTORY
2.	Major Function: Pupil Appraisal and Record Services
2.1	Counselor win assist with a	'	•	______
comprehensive testing program including the CAT, PSAT, ACT, and SAT
2.2	Counselor provides information	  __________________________
about tiie GED testing services
,2^ Counselor provides orientation	 . 
to assessment results and their use
2.4	Counselor uses test results in	 __________________ ________
assisting students with educational and career
Strengths:__________________________________________________________________________
Recommendations for	_____
Commendations:	______
SATIS- UNSATIS- N/O FACTORY FACTORY
3.	Major Function: Group Guidance Services
3.1	Counselor provides orientation	____________________ ________
to students new to building
3.2	Counselor provides group	  
counseling to enhance students’ decision making drills as they apply to educational, career, and personal planning
3.3	Counselor provides group	  
counseling to enhance students' self-understanding and their understanding of others
3.4	Counselors provide group	  
counseling to enhance stydgnts1 awareness of standardized tests, test scores, and the importance of study skills
Strengths:__________________________________________________________________________
Weaknesses:
Recommendations for Tmprnw«iumt;
Commendations:______________________________________________________________________
SATISFACTORY
UNSATIS- N/O FACTORY .
4.	Major Function: Counseling Services
4.1	Counselor routinely schedules	  ______
individual student conferences upon request and referral
4.2	Counselor provides individual	________ ___________ ___________
and small group counseling opportunities for students with whom have personal and/nr academic difficulties
Strengths:____________________________________________________________________________
Weaknesses:.
Recommendations for Improvement:______________________________________________
rnmmAndatinnc?	.. ....... _----	---
SATIS- UNSATIS- N/O FACTORY FACTORY
5.	Major Function: Consultative Services
5.1	Counselor will assist parents,	  
social service providers, and other educators in coordinating school and community programs and services
5.2	Counselor consults with parents	  
to discuss their child’s personal, social, academic, and vocational development
5.3	Counselors will assist parents	________  
in interpreting test results and record information .
5.4	Counselors will assist in	  •
identifying students with special needs
Strengths	-
Weaknesses:________________________________________________________________________
Recommendations for Improvement:_____________________;_____________________________
Commendations:_______'	-__________
SATIS- UNSATIS- N/O FACTORY FACTORY
6. Major Function: Resource Coordination Services
•	6.1 Counselor coordinates guidance	________	________ __________
related field trips and speakers
6* *2 Counselor coordinates college	________ ___________ __________
.	and military representatives
6.3	Counselor coordinates home	_______ _
instruction referrals
6.4 . Counselor coordinates homework ________________ ___________ __________
...	. assignments for students who
are ill .


Strengths:________________________________________________________________________________
Weaknesses:.________________________ ,	--------------------------
Recommendations for Improvement:
Commendations:.
SATIS- UNSATIS- N/O FACTORY FACTORY
7.	Major Function: Placement Services
7.1	Counselor uses student records	  
to assist students and parents to achieve proper placement in the curriculum
7.2	Counselor provides appropriate	  
ednc&tionBl placement of students as it applies to course selection, graduation requirements, and schedule changes
7.3	Counselors coordinate	  
appropriate parent meetings for transitional needs (elementary to middle to high school)
Strengths:__________;_________________'_____________________________________________
Weaknesses:____________________________________________________________________
Recommendations for Improvement:	_______;_______________________________
Commendations:__________________________________________________________________
	SATISFACTORY	UNSATISFACTORY	N/O
8.	Major Function: Evaluation and Planning of Guidance Program 8.1	Counselor conducts periodic needs assessment of guidance program 8.2	Counselor uses assessment to revise guidance program to meet current needs Strengths:				•
Weaknesses:_____________________________________________________________________
Recommendations for Improvement:
rnnwnAndarinng
	SATISFACTORY	UNSATISFACTORY	N/O
9.	Major Function: Interacting Within the Educational Environment 9.1	Counselor treats all students in a fair and equitable manner 9.2	Counselor interacts effectively with students, co-workers, parents and community			—-■
Strengths:
Weaknesses:.
Recommendations for Improvement:.
Commendations:.

	SATISFACTORY	UNSE8R5-FAC3OBF	
10. Major Function: Performing; Duties			
10.1 Counselor carries out non-instructional duties	■ ■■■—		—-	
10.2 Counselor adheres to established laws, policies, rules and regulations						■								
10.3 Counselor follows a plan for professional development and demonstrates evidence of growth			
Strengths:.
Weaknesses:__________________________________________________________________________
Recommendations for Improvement:_______________________;______________;______________
('ivttmumAatiangs
Observer’s Summary Commaits___________________________________________________________
Counselor's Reactions to Assessment: _________________________________________________
Observer's Signature & Date
Counselor's SignattES? & Skate
Signatures indicate that the written Assessment has been seen and tenwi
appendix c
P.O2
THE DAYTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS NURSE PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT SYSTEM INSTRUMENT
INSTRUCTIONS:
1.	Based an the evidence from observation end discussion, the observer -s to assess the school nurse perforxaance with respect to the functions of the school nurse Listed below.
2.	The observer/assessor must add pertinent comments at the end of each major function when unsatisfactory is narked.
3.	The school nurse is provided an opportunity to react to the observer's observation and comments.
4.	The observer and the school nurse must discuss the results of the assessment and recommended action pertinent to it.
5.	The school nurse and evaluator must sign the instrument in the assists spaces.
6.	The instrument must be filed in the school nurses personnel folder.
7.	The assessment categories will be as followst
SKZSncnRTs The nurse performs the scope of cettpetencm in a recogni tahly consist manner in instructional and non-instructional duties. Nursing practices meet the pBrfQEfflMOK OXpKSttXQRBe
UNSATTSFlCTCRYx The nurse does not maintain a oansistent daaenstration of the scoc of ccnpentencxeo in inscruetional and non-wstructionnl duties. Nursing practices not neet acceptable performance expectations.
ND OPRREUKETY TO OBSERVE (WDh fbr purposes of this observation. These behavior or functions were not observed.
1.	Major Ptmctianx aesltli Aaaosneit SffzsncrcKY UNsansKHoa n/o
L.L	Conducts appropriate health screenings.	_______ __________________ _____
1.2	Obtain* and reviews pupils health history.	 '	_____
1.3	Consults with school staff and other professionals regarding their observations of pupils health states.	 _________ _____________________-
1.4	Maintains and ineerprets Infor-flnticn about the health care resources available and prenotes appropriate contact with the agency or provider.	  _______________________________
2.
1.5
1.6
1.7
Strengths:
status and performs related activities to obtain ccopliance with State Laws-.
Follow-up to determine that the pupils health needs are met.
and guidelines regarding ccsaunlcable diseases
with identified serious health problems.
Major Functimt Himes Mid Injury
2.1
2.2 Notify appropriate staff oenbera of pupils with serious problems.	-
2.3 Responds appropriately in esergency situations eurti as cdiild abuse, bus acdderrtSf etc.	
p . □<
HA
Reoonnandations Ear luLL-uvement;
Cemandationst
3.	Major Punctim: Hwtth Muaeticn and School nwliuiMmt
SRSZSnCKlS tnSKnSHCTORY N/O
3.1	Provides sources for heilth related information and resource Materials, to parents, students and staff.
3.2	Participates in classroam health instruction as a resource person.
3.3	Provides health related in-service programs for school staff.
3.4	Promotes the physical anvirersnantal health and safety for pupils and personnel in -he school.
P.O5
4.	bfejor Function: Health Ccxcultaticn/Oxaiselirig	-
SMISCTCTORY UHSKnSFJCTOW N/O
4.1	Participates in the xdentification axd management of pupils suspected of	.
being atoused/neglected-	.	________	-
4.2	Assists the chronically ill pupil, his/her patents and school staff to • understand the illness in relation to school and co sake appropriate adjustments to help meet the pi^ils special needs.	_______ _______	____
4.3	Assists the pupils with handicaps, his/her parents and school staff to understand the handicap in relation to school and makes adjustments to help meet the pupils special needs. _______  ___________________________________
Strengths;
Waalmesses:
Raccoattdatians far Isprowent
5. Major Function; Records pertaining to aanil Health
	record for each pupil.	‘n fry	rWUTTSPSriVRY	N/
5.2	Maintains doctmntation of student visits and actions taken.		
5.3	Reviews current aoergscy medical authorization forms for eat±i student.		
5.4	Records and reports are maintained daily and reported monthly to the Associate Director of Health Services. _______		
5.5	Canpiles accurate data for individual schools regarding mandated screening. 			
-OS
P .OS
<0
Strengths:
» i>if'■irt:	_	_
n»uiTi'IifinT for Isoemienaiu
N/O
6.	Major Rnstxcn: Profoaslanal Responsibility SWESnCSORX (MBOXSmCSORX N/O
6.1	Ascuses tasks and responsibilities ayyiuLulatn for a certified school OSM.	_ • ■	 
6.2	Maintains standards as i^cwsrnori by the nurse practice act.	_________ • • *	___
6.3	Maintains curxanu registered nurse licensure.	_______ ________________ ______
6.4	Mtintsins ament sOsaol nurse certification.	.	____
6.5	Maintains ament CVR certifications. __________	'	__
Stxeneehsa
Mhajgaaf i	___________________________________________________________
P . 07
7.	Major Function: Ir.teractxr.c wimir. the EBueaticnal tovixcnnwiL sazsncKitt asaxaxacnr h.o
7.1	school nurse treats all students In a fair and equitable Mmex*	- —-. --	_
7.2	School nurse interacts -effectively with students. oo-worxers, parents, and ccemmity.	'	.
strengths;
wealrrwmrn:
ReoEDmendaturis for laraeietit:
CaBHendationsr	••	•
8.	Major Function: Performing duties smsRoonsr - fwwwsFNgRiof
8.1	School nurse carries out duties. 
3.Z School nurse adheres to established Laws, policiss, rules, ind regulations.
3.,1	School nurse follows a plan for professional development and dWDrstrates evidence at gjxjutit. 
Msataesses:
Recaicnendaticns for mpRSMeennt:
APPENDIX E
THE DAYTON PUBUC SCHOOLS
LIBRARY/MEDIA SPECIALIST PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT SYSTEM INSTRUMENT
INSTRUCTIONS:
1.	Based on the evidence from observation and discussion, the observer is to observe and assess the library/media specialist's performance with respect to the six major functions listed below.
2.	The observer/assessor is encouraged to add pertinent comments at the end of each major function.
3.	The library/media specialist is provided an opportunity to react to the observation and the observer's/assessor's comments.
4.	The observer/assessor and the library/media specialist must discuss the results of the observation and any recommended action pertinent to it.
5.	The observer/assessor and the library/media specialist must sign the instrument in the assigned spaces. The signature does not indicate agreement.
6.	The instrument must be filed in the library/media specialist's personnel folder. All the observation/assessment reports become a part of the final evaluation.
7.	The assessment categories will be as follows:
SATISFACTORY: The library/media specialist performs the scope of competence in a recognizably consistent manner in instructional and non-instructional duties. Library/media practices meet the performance expectations.
UNSATISFACTORY: The library/media specialist does not maintain a consistent demonstration of the scope of competencies in instructional and non-instructional duties. Library/media practices do not meet acceptable performance expectations.	*
NO OPPORTUNITY TO OBSERVE (N/O): For purposes of this observation, these behaviors or functions were not observed.
2.	Major Function: Managing Public Relations	sahsfactorx uhsatisfactobx h/o
2.1	Promotes positive staff relationships	... .......;___
. cooperates with the total operation of the schooL . is an effective member of teacher teams.	-
. ent urages optimum use of media center staff anc esources.
. issues newsletters.
2.2	Promotes positive student relationships	 
. encourages optimum use of media center staff and resources.
. provides incentives for students to use resources for personal information needs.	.
2.3	Maintains a good relationship between school and 	 
community
. submits news articles to school, community, and professional organizations.	.
. plans programs in the media center and invites community participation.
. cooperates with other organizations (e.g., parent organizations, public and other libraries).
Strengths:
Weaknesses:
Recom mendations:.	■	.
3.	Major Function: Planning for the Media Program
3.1	Develops annual and long-range plans for the media program based on periodic assessment
. participates on curriculum planning committee.
. frequently requests input from a variety of sources.
. uses local, regional, state, and national guidelines.
3.2	Plans with teachers to integrate media skills into the curriculum
. attends grade level and departmental meetings, consults textbooks and curriculum guides.
. plans, informally and formally, with teachers.
SATISFACTORY UNSATISFACTORY N/O
3.3	Designs motivational activities to promote reading such as:
. books fairs,
. literature festivals,
. media fairs, contests,
. book talking, storytelling,
. provides tangible incentives, i.e., bookmarks, buttons, certificates.
3.4	Plans a schedule that allows for both instruction and ________ ____________ __________
collection development within administrative guidelines.
. has a daily/weekly/monthly schedule that shows planning and instructional activities, as well as management tasks.
. encourages flexibility for teacher/student use.
. schedule is displayed and easily accessible.
Strengths: -______________________________________________________________________________________________
W eaknesses:______________________________________________________________________________________________
Recom mendations:
4.	Major Function: Managing Resources	satisfactory unsatisfactory n/o
4.1	Analyzes the collection to determine needs	  
. uses faculty to identify curriculum needs.
4.2	Uses standard selection tools and practices to evaluate and select all instructional materials	•	 
. follows the selection policy approved by the local school board.
. maintains a consideration file with selection sources indicated.
. consults a variety of professional reviewing sources.
. uses first-hand evaluation when possible, i.e., attends book exhibits, orders materials for preview, visits other libraries, consults other resources.
4.	3 Coordinates the acquisitions process	  
. makes selections.
. prepares orders.
. receives and inspects orders.
. processes materials and places on shelves.
. files catalog cards.
SATISFACTORY UHSATISFACTORY H/O
4.	4 Insures accessibility to resources	 , 
.	uses standard Dewey.classifi :ion.
.	maintains card catalog or on- une catalog.
.	maintains regular school hours.
.	remains open all day.
.	provides flexible scheduling to accommodate various groups simultaneously.
4	.5 Offers a variety of instructional resources to meet curriculum objectives and learning styles 	 
[
. print and non-print formats are available to meet instructional needs.
. maintains Information File.
4	.6 Administers the media program budget	  
. develops annual and long-range budget goals.	J
. records indicate that budget allocation was spent.
4	.7 Promotes use of current technologies	 _____ 
■	■	I
. uses newer technologies.
. creates awareness of SOITA materials.
. stays current on newer technologies through reading professional journals, staff development etc. -
. encourages the use of microcomputers for management and instruction.
4.8 Maintains media resources	•	; 
J . coordinates equipment repair, if applicable.
. updates information file.
. develops the collection through weeding of	|
books and cards.
. makes simple repairs to resources, i.e., spine labels, torn pages, lamp replacement.
.	back issues (3-5 years) of periodicals are organized for access.
Strengths;
Weaknesses:
Recommendations:
........ -... ■■ . ... . . ' ' ‘ ' • ' . . .... -
s_ Mafor Functions Managing the Facilitv
SATISFACTORT UNSATISFACTORY N/O
5.1	Has organized media center so that areas are identifiable. Look for these general areas:	 ——. 
. circulation
. card catalog
. large group instruction
. leisure reading
. reference
. listening/viewing/computing
. storytelling
. professional collection . display/exhibit
5.2	Support areas are organized	  
. administrative and planning area is evident.
. production/workroom is organized to meet work needs.
. equipment is stored in a place that is adequate and easily accessible.
. conference/small group activity area is available.
5.3	Provides an environment that reflects the multiple goals of the media program
. display of student work.
. promotional displays.
. bulletin boards.
. plants, pictures, posters.
. cleanliness.
5.4	Considers health and safety regulations when arranging facility
.	free access to exits
.	extension cords appropriately used.
.	AV carts with safety straps.
.	attempts to correct safety problems.
5.5 Facility organized for efficient circulation
.	check out station near exit and away from stack area.
.	outside drop for return of materials, if possible.
.	access to equipment without disrupting other areas.
.	resources are dearly labeled.
.	physical access (handicapped). *
Strengths: -
Weaknesses:

Recommendations?	.
6.	Major Function: Professional Responsibilities saxxspacxobx UKsaxzsncxaax h/o
6.1	Upgrades professional knowledge and stalls	 
. attends professional meetings, workshops and seminars.	.
. visits other schools.
6.2	Provides growth opportunities for staff and students 	. 
. trains and supervises student assistants.
- trains and supervises media paraprofessionals.
. develops orientation sessions.
. conducts staff development activities.
6.3	Carries out non-instructional duties as assigned and/or as need is perceived	_ 
6.4	Adheres to established laws, policies, rules, and regulations.	  
6.5	Submits accurate reports promptly	_________ '
. inventories of furniture, equipment, and collection.
. annual reports (e.g., circulation.
. budget . student obligations.
Strengths:_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Weaknesses:	~	.•
Recommendations:	__
Observer's Summary Comments:
Library/Media Specialist's Reactions to Assessment:	■
Observer's/Assessor's Signature & Date	Library/Media Specialist's Signature & Date
Signatures indicate that the written Assessment has been seen and discussed.
Hill III III III
appendix f
1011 w nsafcioci
DAYT0B PUBLIC SCKK&S mpabtwt or nsnucnoBiL notants & shvices XBFOBMAL TEACHES. OBSKBVAZIOB UPOKT
Teacher:
Subject:
Date: ____________________
Tine Observed: 
	DfPBOVEMEIT	I ■BUD	IOROBSEEl
	
B.
lasnncngm. ttm»
a.
Class started quietly
Maintains high tiee-on-taak
C.
STBBKBT BERAVToe
Bales—Administrative Matters Bales—Verbal Particioation/Talk
seetns with rwvieu
Provides relevant ezaeeles	1	I	
Bish rate of success an tadfca	|	1	
Aooronrlata level of eoeatieas	1	1	
Brisk pace	11	
KfiEiCiOBB* ffMBth »ij—aaa	|	|	
Aasisnannt clear	1	1	
Suasariaea aaia uoints	j	I	
Cirffulntea to check student	|	1	
Bees oral, written work products	I	I EO.	JjjO			 ....	, , I	1	....			 .- -	
Questions clearlv & can at a tiae |	I	
■eaBsak an in-elass work	I	1	
Brat feedbaB on oot-of-class work |	1	
AffiLmn eomet anauaf cacklv	1	1	
SMtlililg	OB '	|	|	
SUGGXSTIOMB/eaMOrrSt
appendix g
GRIEVANCE FORM
DISTRIBUTION:
Aggrieved Party In Interest Association Superintendent
Name of Aggrieved:_____________ ______________________________________
Assignment	______________________.___________________________
School Building:__________________■	________________________
STATEMENT OF GRIEVANCE AND RELIEF SOUGHT:
REUSE SOUGHT
Signature of Aggrieved:__________________________
Date:_____________________________
LEVEL I (PWNOPALSUPERVISOR)
A.	The Staaiian leadtog dtooctiy to the fling tit tNa grievance occurred on or
about •	. 19	. This grievance is baing filed at
Lovell tor amicabio ar^ustmont (not laterthan 30 days tram ’above).
B.	Data grievance received bv Party In interact at Lovel l.	19___
C.	Disposiflcnof grievance by Party In Intarest .	__________________
Signature of Party In Interest
Dato__________________________, 19___(Not Later than 7 calendar days from date of
receipt
D.	Dato Level I disposition received by Aggrieved_________________________
PooMon of Aggrieved andtor Association: Concur or disagree.
This metier has been appealed to Level ll on 	.................,
State reason lor appeal:
19____.
(Disagreement is automatic filing for Level II of the Grievance Procedure).
Signature of Aggrieved _______________________
DATE	. 19	. (Not later ihan 7 calendar days from receipt of
LEVEL 11 (LEAD PRINCIPAL)
A.	Date grievance received by Party In Interest at Level II: _______________________________ 19____.
B.	Disposition of grievance by Party In Interest
C.	Date Level II deposition received by Aggrieved____________________________
Position of Aggrieved and/or Association: Concur or disagree.
This matter has been appealed to Level 111 on__________________, 19.
Disagreement is automatic filing for Level III of the Grievance Procedure
.	Signature of Aggrieved
DATE 19______________________________(Not later than 7 calendar days from receipt of
Level U disposition.)
LEVEL IB (SUPERINTENDENT)
A.	Date grievance received by Party in Interest at Level III: 	______________________________ 19.
B.	Disposition of grievance by Party In Interest