Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Memphis City Schools Board of Education and Memphis Education Association, Tennessee Education Association (TEA), National Education Association (NEA), (2001)
K#: 830703
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Table of Contents
(Numerical Sequence)
Article	Title	Page No.
Article I	Preamble....................................................................1
Article II	Recognition.................................................................1
Article III	Grievance Procedure.........................................................2
Article IV	Contract Dispute Resolution for Principals, Assistant Principals, and
Instructional Supervisors.................................................5
Article V	Facilities..................................................................6
Article VI	Deduction of Dues...........................................................7
Article VII	Professional Employee Committee.............................................8
Article VIII	Student Discipline Procedures...............................................8
Article IX	Evaluation..................................................................9
Article X	Personnel Files............................................................10
Article XI	Complaints.................................................................12
Article XII	Due Process and Disciplinary Procedures....................................12
Article XIII	Seniority..................................................................13
Article XIV	Transfer and Assignment....................................................14
Article XV	Leaves of Absence..........................................................17
Article XVI	School Day.................................................................25
Article XVII	Work Hours and Work Year...................................................25
Article XVIII	General....................................................................26
Article XIX	Accidents, Assaults, and Property Damage...................................26
Article XX	Retirement.................................................................29
Article XXI	Negotiating Procedures.....................................................30
Article XXII	Work Stoppage..............................................................30
Article XXIII	Effect of Agreement........................................................30
Article XXIV	Management Rights..........................................................30
Article XXV	Insurance..................................................................31
Article XXVI	Compensation...............................................................32
Article XXVII	Length of Agreement........................................................35
Appendix A	Recognition................................................................36
Appendix B	Grievance Form.............................................................37
Appendix C	Association Grievances.....................................................39
Appendix D	Teacher Salaries...........................................................40
Appendix E	Principal and Assistant Principal Salaries.................................43
Appendix F	Supplements - Senior High..................................................45
Appendix G	Supplements - Junior High..................................................46
Appendix H	Supplements - Middle School................................................47
Letters of Intent..........................................................................48-68
i
Table of Contents
(Alphabetical Sequence)
Title	Article
Accidents, Assaults, and Property Damage	Article	XIX.............................26
Compensation	Article	XXVI............................32
Complaints	Article	XI..............................12
Contract Dispute Resolution for Principals, Asst.
Principals, and Instructional Supervisors	Article	IV..............................5
Deduction of Dues	Article	VI...............................7
Due Process and Disciplinary Procedures	Article	XII.............................12
Effect of Agreement	Article	XXIII...........................30
Evaluation	Article	IX...............................9
Facilities	Article	V................................6
General	Article	XVIII...........................26
Grievance Procedure	Article	III..............................2
Insurance	Article	XXV.............................31
Leaves of Absence	Article	XV............................. 17
Length of Agreement	Article	XXVIL...........................35
Management Rights	Article	XXIV............................30
Negotiating Procedures	Article	XXI..........................  29
Personnel Files	Article	X...............................10
Preamble	Article	1................................1
Professional Employee Committee	Article	VII..............................8
Recognition	Article	II...............................1
Retirement	Article	XX..............................29
School Day	Article	XVI.............................25
Seniority	Article	XIII............................13
Student Discipline Procedures	Article	VIII.............................8
Transfer and Assignment	Article	XIV.............................14
Work Stoppage	Article	XXII............................30
Work Hours and Work Year	Article	XVII............................25
Appendix A	Recognition....................................................................36
Appendix B	Grievance Form.................................................................37
Appendix C	Association Grievances.........................................................39
Appendix D	Teacher Salaries...............................................................40
Appendix E	Principal and Assistant Principal Salaries.....................................43
Appendix F	Supplements - Senior High......................................................45
Appendix G	Supplements - Junior High......................................................46
Appendix H	Supplements - Middle School....................................................47
Letters of Intent...............................................:..........................48-68
ii
ARTICLE I
PREAMBLE
This Agreement is between the Board of Education of the Memphis City Schools of the City of Memphis, hereinafter called the "Board", and the Memphis Education Association, an affiliate of the Tennessee Education Association and the National Education Association, hereinafter called the "Association". The Board and the Association are sometimes hereinafter referred to as the "Parties".
The Parties agree that the purpose of this Agreement is to establish and maintain terms and conditions of employment which will provide fair working conditions, maintain professional relationships, and provide a procedure for amicable adjustments of disputes arising under this Agreement subject to the Board's authority to manage the school system. Furthermore, the Parties agree that the education of the students of the Memphis City Schools is paramount in the operation of the Memphis City Schools.
ARTICLE II
RECOGNITION
Section A. The Board recognizes the Association as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative with respect to terms and conditions of employment for professional employees employed by the Board in positions which require a certificate issued by the State Department of Education for services in public elementary and secondary schools of Tennessee, as set forth in the Exclusive Recognition Agreement between the Parties dated and agreed to on October 13, 1987, and as listed on Appendix A of this Agreement inclusively.
Section B. The term "professional employee" in this Agreement shall refer to any employee included in the bargaining unit as defined in Section A of this article and as listed in Appendix A.
1.	The term "teacher" in this Agreement shall be any professional employee included in the bargaining unit on contract to teach for the Board, and as defined in Section A of this article, and as specifically listed in Appendix A as teacher(s).
2.	The term "principal" in this Agreement shall refer to any professional employee included in the bargaining unit who has been assigned by the Board as being primarily accountable for ensuring the delivery and supervision of the educational services at a location, and as defined in Section A of this article, and as specifically listed in Appendix A as principal(s).
3.	The term "assistant principal" in this Agreement shall refer to any professional employee included in the bargaining unit who has been assigned by the Board as being accountable by providing assistance to a principal in all dimensions of school administration and supervision, and as defined in Section A of this article, and whose positions are specifically listed in Appendix A as assistant principal(s).
1
4.	The term "instructional supervisor" in this Agreement shall refer to any professional employee included in the bargaining unit who has been assigned by the Board administrative responsibilities or who serves in the capacity of supervisor or consultant in the general development and improvement of teaching skills, and as defined in Section A of this article and whose positions are specifically listed in Appendix A as instructional supervisors).
5.	The term "Mental Health/Support Professional" in this Agreement shall refer to any professional employee included in the bargaining unit who has been assigned by the Board certain specialized responsibilities which generally contribute to the delivery of education services, and as defined in Section A of this article, and whose positions are specifically listed in Appendix A as Mental Health/Support Professional(s).
Section C. The Association recognizes that, due to specific job assignments, instructional supervisors, principals, and assistant principals are and shall remain agents of the Board, directly and exclusively responsible to the Board for the administration of all federal and local statutes, all Board rules, regulations, policies, and all Agreements.
Section D. The Association recognizes the Board as the duly elected governing body and agrees to negotiate only with the Board's designated representatives.
ARTICLE III
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section A. A "grievance" is defined as an alleged violation or misapplication of any specific provision of this Agreement.
Section B. The term "grievant" is defined as any teacher or Mental Health/Support Professional in the bargaining unit including the Association president for Association grievances as provided for in Appendix C.
The complaint resolution procedure for Principals, Assistant Principals and Instructional Supervisors is set forth in Article IV entitled Contract Dispute Resolution for Principals, Assistant Principals and Instructional Supervisors. The grievance and arbitration procedures set forth in this article shall not apply to any principal, assistant principal or instructional supervisor.
Section C.	The following are the supervisors referred to in Steps 1 and 2 of this article:
Step 1. Principal or Division Director, as appropriate.
Step 2. Department Associate Superintendent, or designated representative as appropriate.
2
Section D.	The standard grievance form, attached hereto as Appendix B, shall be the approved grievance form.
Section E. Hearings held under this article shall be conducted at times and places which will afford a fair and reasonable opportunity for all persons, including witnesses, who would be entitled to attend. Such hearings will be conducted during nonschool hours unless there is mutual agreement for other arrangements.
Section F. A grievant has a right to be accompanied, represented, and advised by an Association Representative, if the grievant so desires, to assist in die resolution of grievances. At Step 1, representation may be by the grievant's Association Representative (AR). Beginning with Step 2 and above, such representation may be by an Association designated representative. In the event a grievant chooses not to be represented by the Association, the grievant shall state this in writing at the appropriate place on the grievance form at the time the grievance is initially filed. In such case, the Board will notify the Association prior to issuing the response at Step 2 and Step 3, as applicable, in order to give the Association the opportunity to discuss the grievance with the Superintendent's designated representative prior to issuance of the response.
Section G.	All grievance processing shall be handled exclusively in the following manner:
Step 1. Within fifteen (15) working days after the occurrence, the grievance will be presented in writing (on the standard grievance form with all requested information provided) by the grievant to the immediate supervisor. Said supervisor shall within six (6) working days of the receipt of the grievance, meet with the grievant and/or an Association Representative (AR), if the grievant so desires, in an effort to resolve the grievance. If an adjustment is not made at this meeting, the supervisor will respond to the grievance in writing within six (6) working days after the date of said grievance meeting.
By mutual agreement between the Association and the Superintendent's designated representative, a grievance may be presented to the grievant's immediate past supervisor and processed in accordance with Step 1 of the grievance procedure.
Step 2. If a satisfactory agreement is not reached at Step 1, the grievance may be presented by the grievant to the appropriate supervisor within six (6) working days from the date of response of the Step 1 supervisor. Said supervisor shall within six (6) working days of the receipt of the grievance at Step 2 meet with the grievant and/or a professional Association staff representative, if the employee so desires, in an effort to resolve the grievance. If an adjustment is not made at this meeting, the Step 2 supervisor shall respond to the grievant in writing within six (6) working days after the date of the Step 2 meeting.
Step 3. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached at Step 2, the grievance may be presented by the grievant to the Superintendent's designated representative within six (6) working days from the date of response of the Step 2 supervisor. The Superintendent's designated representative, within six (6) working days of the receipt of the grievance in Step 3, shall meet with the grievant and/or a professional Association staff representative, if the employee so desires, in an effort to resolve the grievance. If an adjustment is not made at this meeting, the Superintendent's
3
designated representative shall respond to the grievance in writing within six (6) working days after the Step 3 grievance meeting.
Step 4. If a satisfactory settlement is not reached in Step 3, the Association may, within ten (10) working days after the response at Step 3, submit the grievance to arbitration by submitting to the Superintendent's designated representative a joint request form for a list of seven (7) arbitrators to be supplied by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS). Within ten (10) working days of receipt of said form, the Superintendent's designated representative shall direct the request as a joint request to the FMCS. Within ten (10) working days of receipt of the list of arbitrators, the Association shall advise the Superintendent's designated representative that a representative of the Association is available to select an arbitrator to hear the grievance. The Parties shall select an arbitrator from the list by alternately crossing out names until only one (1) remains. Either Party may elect to reject the first panel.
Section H.	The arbitrator shall be limited in making the determination as follows:
1.	The arbitrator shall have no power or authority to add to, subtract from, change, modify, or alter in any way the provisions of this Agreement, or impose on any Party hereto a limitation or obligation not explicitly provided in this Agreement.
2.	The arbitrator shall have no power to rule on any matter involving teacher evaluation or teacher evaluation procedures.
3.	The arbitrator shall have no power to change any practice, policy, or rule of the Board nor to substitute the arbitrator's judgment for that of the Board as to the reasonableness of any such practice, policy, or rule.
4.	The decision of the arbitrator shall be advisory but will be adopted unless specifically rejected by the Board within three (3) regularly scheduled meetings following its receipt.
Section L All fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the Parties. The grievant shall suffer no loss of pay or benefits which may be due for attendance at hearings conducted during normal school hours. Any salary which may be due for up to two witnesses who are called by the Association shall be shared equally by the Association and the Board if the witness is a member of the bargaining unit. All other expenses including salaries of any other witnesses called before the arbitrator shall be borne by the Party calling such witnesses or incurring such expenses.
Section J. It is understood that time is of the essence; and the time limits provided for in this article will be strictly adhered to, subject to the following procedures:
1.	Time limits provided in this article may be extended by signed mutual agreement of the Parties, not to exceed a total of sixty (60) calendar days at Step 4 which shall be in addition to those days provided for in Section G, Step 4.
2.	Failure of the appropriate supervisor at any step of the grievance procedure to comply with the specified time limits shall permit the grievant, or Association, as appropriate, to present the grievance at the next step of the grievance procedure.
4
3.	Any grievance which is not presented within the time limits of the grievance procedure, as provided herein, and any grievance which is not advanced from one step to the next within the time limits provided for in that step, and the failure to initiate any action in Step 4 within the time limits specified, shall result in the grievance being considered void.
4.	For purposes of this article, a working day is defined as any day, Monday through Friday, on which schools are open during the normal school year. (The first working day to be counted shall begin at 8:00 a.m. the working day following the day on which the time limits are based). After the last day of the normal school year, a working day shall be defined (for purposes of this article) as Monday through Friday, when the administrative offices of the Board of Education are open.
ARTICLE IV
CONTRACT DISPUTE RESOLUTION FOR
PRINCIPALS, ASSISTANT PRINCIPALS, AND INSTRUCTIONAL SUPERVISORS
Section A. Whenever a principal, assistant principal, or instructional supervisor feels that a specific provision of the Agreement has been violated that involves a direct personal right, the individual shall be able to take these prescribed steps.
Section B.
1.	Such complaint of an alleged violation may be presented in writing to the individual's immediate supervisor, who will meet with the individual and attempt to resolve the problem.
2.	If the complaint is not resolved with the immediate supervisor, the individual may present the complaint, in writing, to the Department Associate Superintendent/Executive Director or designated representative, as appropriate, who will meet with the individual and attempt to resolve the problem.
3.	If the complaint is not resolved with the Department Associate Superintendent/Executive Director, the individual may present the written complaint to the Superintendent's designated representative, who will meet with the individual, and a professional Association staff representative, if the individual so desires, and attempt to resolve the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this meeting, the Superintendent's designated representative will respond to the complaint in writing.
4.	Instructional Supervisors present their complaints at Section B. 1, and if not resolved, proceed through Section B. 2 and 3. Assistant Principals present their complaints at Section B. 1; and if not resolved, it may then be presented at Section B. 3. Principals present their complaints directly at Section B. 3.
Section C.	Complaints shall not be subject to grievance or arbitration.
5
ARTICLE V
FACILITIES
Section A. The Association shall be permitted reasonable use of school facilities, including the use of school bulletin boards and the regular intra-system mail, to distribute official non-controversial and non-political Association materials. A copy of any Association material to be posted or distributed in the school will be sent to the Superintendent's designated representative for approval prior to the time of posting or distribution and shall not be posted or distributed without his written authorization affixed thereto. This use shall be subject to regulations established by the Board and the usual fees charged to the public for use of facilities for meetings after normal school hours.
Section B. The Board recognizes and will work with the accredited Association Representatives (AR), president, and professional Association staff as provided by this Agreement. The Association shall be accorded Association representatives on faculty as follows:
1.	In a location of thirty (30) professional employees or less, there shall be one (1) Association Representative.
2.	In a location of thirty-one (31) to fifty (50) professional employees, there shall be two (2) Association Representatives.
3.	In a location of fifty-one (51) to seventy (70) professional employees, there shall be three (3) Association Representatives.
4.	In a location of seventy-one (71) professional employees or more, there shall be four (4) Association Representatives.
Section C. A written list of the Association Representatives (AR) and their locations, Association officers and professional staff and their positions shall be furnished to the Board following their designation. The Association shall notify the Board of changes in this list.
Section D. The appropriate Association Representative (AR) within the school and the designated professional Association staff representatives shall handle and settle grievances at their respective grievance steps.
Section E.
1.	Designated professional Association staff representatives, upon request by the Association, shall be admitted to the buildings and grounds of the Board for the purpose of assisting in the adjusting of grievances in accordance with the provisions of Article III, Grievance Procedure, at Steps 2, 3, and 4, provided any such designated professional Association staff representative first reports the nature, location, and time of such visit to the Superintendent's designated representative, who may designate a representative of the Board to accompany the designated professional Association staff representative to assist in the adjustment of the grievance. Upon arrival at the location, the designated professional Association staff representative shall contact the school principal, appropriate supervisor, or designated representative.
6
2.	Association officers and designated professional Association staff representatives, upon request by the Association, shall be admitted to the grounds and buildings of the Board for the purpose of conducting legitimate Association business, excluding investigating or handling of grievances or complaints, provided such representatives first arrange such visit one day in advance with the principal or the principal's designated representative, or less by mutual agreement.
3.	Visits by Association officers and/or professional Association staff representatives shall not be at such times or in such a manner as to interfere with the normal work of the employees or operations of the location being visited, as determined by the Board. The rights of access contained in this section shall not be abused.
Section F. The Board agrees that, upon written request of the Association to the Superintendent's designated representative, it will annually transmit to the Association copies of the adopted budget, the yearly audit, the June 30th Financial Report, a printout containing the names and addresses of all professional employees covered by this Agreement, and a printout of their salaries, work locations, placement on the salary schedule, number of years employed by the Board, total years credited for salary purposes, sex and race.
Section G. These rights and other rights granted in this Agreement to the Association shall not be granted or extended to any other employee organization which represents or purports to represent members of this bargaining unit, except as permitted or required by law.
ARTICLE VI
DEDUCTION OF DUES
Section A. Deduction of dues shall be made and remitted to the Association only on the basis of voluntary individual authorization signed by the professional employee and forwarded to the Board. The Association shall provide the Board with a list indicating the professional employees' names, social security numbers, and other pertinent information necessary for payroll purposes. The payroll deductions shall be prorated over the regular twenty (20) pay periods. In order to provide for the regular payment of dues, the Association shall establish a fixed pay period amount of dues deductions which shall be certified to the Board by the Association on or before August 1 of each year. The signed voluntary dues deduction authorizations and the list from the Association, referred to above, must be received by the Board at least ten (10) days prior to the end of a professional employee's pay period for such deduction to be deducted from any professional employee's paycheck for that pay period.
Section B. The Association shall notify the Board at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of any change in the amount of dues deductions.
Section C. During the term of this Agreement, dues shall be deducted from professional employees' paychecks in accordance with Sections A and B of this article and shall be transmitted to the Association, as soon as feasible, with an itemized statement showing the name of each professional employee for whom such deductions are made.
7
Section D. In order for dues to be deducted, a professional employee's earnings must be sufficient to cover the amount of the appropriate Association dues after other legal and required deductions are made. Any professional employee who executes a written assignment authorizing payroll deduction prior to any authorized leave shall have his/her regular dues and two additional pay periods of dues deducted from the last paycheck received prior to the leave. The dues deduction will be resumed when the professional employee returns from leave. When a professional employee is in a non-pay status for an entire pay period or is in a non-pay status for part of a pay period and his/her earnings are not sufficient to cover the deductions, no deduction shall be made for that pay period.
Section E. The Association will indemnify and hold the Board harmless against any claims made or against any suits instituted against the Board on account of payroll deductions or Association dues. Upon presentation of proper evidence thereof, the Association agrees to refund to the Board or the professional employee, whichever is applicable, any amount paid to the Association in error because of the dues deduction provisions.
Section F.	Authorizations shall be continuing except that during the period April 1 through May 31 of any year a member may revoke such authorization by providing written notice during said period to the Association and the Payroll Section of the Board of the member's desire to terminate the dues deduction. Such revocation shall be effective July 1 of the year of the revocation.
Section G.	Payroll deduction shall be provided for voluntary purchase of Association sponsored and Board approved insurance.
ARTICLE VII
PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEE COMMITTEE
The Parties agree to establish a committee composed of three (3) persons appointed by the Board and three (3) persons appointed by the Association or more by mutual agreement. This committee shall be called the Professional Employee Committee and shall meet every other month, or more or less frequently by mutual agreement, to discuss overall relations between the Parties, exchange information, receive suggestions, consider problems, offer solutions and discuss improvements in situations impacting principals, assistant principals, instructional supervisors, mental health/support professionals, and teachers.
ARTICLE VIII
STUDENT DISCIPLINE PROCEDURES
Section A. The Parties recognize that good discipline is needed to foster a warm and accepting school and classroom atmosphere in order that students may develop self-control and self-discipline. Both Parties further agree that the maintenance of discipline is necessary for an effective educational program.
Section B. The Parties recognize the responsibility of the teacher to maintain discipline and a climate for good instruction and the responsibility of the Board to give the teacher reasonable support with respect to student discipline.
8
Section C. A teacher may refer a student to the school office for disciplinary reasons. The teacher shall at the time of the referral complete and submit to the principal the Discipline Referral Form. In case of emergency, it shall be submitted as soon as possible. Upon request of the teacher, the principal shall within a reasonable amount of time initiate a conference involving the administrator, the student, the teacher and, if applicable, the parent for the purpose of improving the behavior of the student. Students who continue to engage in unacceptable behavior(s) will be subject to disciplinary action(s) as provided in the Memphis City Schools Code of Conduct.
Section D. The principal shall establish a school discipline committee at each location. The committee will consist of four (4) members of the faculty comprised of at least two (2) teachers, a guidance counselor, an association representative and, whenever appropriate, a special education teacher. These faculty committee members will be elected by the majority vote of the school’s faculty. In addition, the committee will consist of the principal and two (2) parents. An assistant principal and/or student representative may be included at the discretion of the school discipline committeelt is the responsibility of the School Discipline Committee to develop a comprehensive school discipline plan and to review and update such plan as needed. The School Discipline Plan must be approved by the local school-based council and by two-thirds majority of the faculty prior to implementation. Once the plan is approved it shall be implemented.
The School Discipline Plan and guidelines will be reviewed on an annual basis. The existing School Discipline Plans and any revisions will be reviewed and approved by the local school-based council and by two-thirds majority of the faculty at the beginning of each school year.
Section E. The Parties agree to establish a Discipline Oversight Committee composed of three (3) persons appointed by the Board and three (3) persons appointed by the Association or more by mutual agreement. The committee will meet quarterly or more often or less frequently by mutual agreement. The committee will monitor and resolve problems at school locations regarding the School Discipline Committee, the School Discipline Plan, the implementation of the School Discipline Plan, or discuss general concerns related to student discipline. The committee will also be responsible for developing and monitoring student discipline guidelines to be utilized by the local School Discipline Committee when developing and revising the School Discipline Plan.
Section F. This article shall in no way diminish the responsibility of the principal as chief administrative officer of the school over conduct within the school.
Section G. Sections D and E of this article are not subject to grievance or arbitration except that limited procedural issues that significantly impede implementation, such as failure to permit an election of a committee or failure to implement a school discipline plan, are grievable beginning at step 3 of the grievance procedure but not arbitrable.
ARTICLE IX
EVALUATION
Section A. Evaluation of professional employees is the systematic procedure described in the Board documents entitled Teacher Evaluation and Professional Growth, Performance Evaluation System
9
for Principals, Assistant Principals and Instructional Supervisors, and Support Services Summative Evaluation for Mental Health/Support Professionals and Management Performance Appraisal System for administration.
These evaluation procedures are designed to improve instruction and to promote high standards of excellence for teachers, school leadership and support staff that uphold the mission of the Memphis City Schools.
Section B. During the term of this Agreement any proposed changes in the above evaluation procedures will be discussed with a professional employee evaluation committee established by the Board. The professional employee members of the committee appointed by the Board shall be made up of an equal number of representatives selected by the Association.
Section C.
1.	All professional employees shall be informed of their evaluator(s), the general criteria, the administrative procedures, and the instrument(s) concerning professional evaluation.
2.	Any written evaluation will be confidential and will be reviewed in private by the evaluator and the professional employee.
3.	Written evaluations shall be based on information gathered openly during formal or informal observations and other general criteria referred to in Paragraph 1 of this section.
4.	Written plans of development or competencies identified as needing improvement should have specific recommendations for improvement to the extent possible and feasible.
5.	If a professional employee is assigned outside his/her job classification, the evaluator shall note this fact on the evaluation form.
6.	If the professional employee disagrees with the evaluation, the professional employee may submit a written statement which must be attached to all file copies.
7.	The professional employee and the evaluator shall sign the evaluation form. The signature of the professional employee does not indicate approval of the evaluation but only that the professional employee has reviewed and received a copy of the evaluation (if requested by the professional employee) at the meeting.
Section D. Professional employee evaluations or professional employee evaluation procedures shall not be grievable or arbitrable except that alleged violations of the provisions of Section C of this Article IX shall be grievable through the 3rd Step of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE X
PERSONNEL FILES
Section A. Definition, Contents, and Use:
1.	A professional employee's personnel file is defined as the professional employee's record maintained in the Division of Personnel Services.
10
2.	The personnel file shall include, but is not limited to, a professional employee's initial employment records, academic records, placement and assignment records, state certification, evaluation forms, transfer records, disciplinary records, letters of commendation and recommendations, and other employment data.
3.	Grievances, grievance answers, and materials directly associated with those grievances shall not be included in such file.
Section B. Professional employees shall be mailed or given a copy of any adverse material when it is placed in the professional employee's personnel file. All materials placed in the professional employee's personnel file shall be stamped with the date such material was received in the Division of Personnel Services.
Section C. Professional employees may review material compiled in their personnel file except for pre-employment references and reports provided that the Division of Personnel Services is notified at least one (1) day in advance. At the request of the professional employee, an Association representative may accompany the professional employee during the review of his or her personnel file. Any anonymous complaint in a professional employee's personnel file will be removed by the Board if requested by that professional employee, provided the complaint was not related to a disciplinary action against that professional employee.
Section D. It is understood that any teacher or Mental Health/Support Professional who does not receive any written disciplinary action for a period of four (4) consecutive years, said disciplinary action administered prior to the four (4) year period shall not be used in connection with any disciplinary action subsequent to said four (4) year period.
Section E. No material placed in the professional employee's personnel file, including any evaluation of the professional employee, shall be used to discipline the professional employee unless a copy is shown to the professional employee prior to the discipline. At the professional employee's request, a copy of the material will be provided to the professional employee.
Section F. If the individual professional employee’s file is maintained in the professional employee's immediate supervisor's office, such material may be reviewed by the professional employee provided that the professional employee requests such review with at least a one (1) day advance notice to the immediate supervisor. At the request of the professional employee, an Association representative may accompany the professional employee during the review of said file. If the file contains adverse material, a copy of the material will be provided to the professional employee at the professional employee's request. If a professional employee disagrees with the adverse material, the professional employee may submit a written statement which will be attached to the material. This section does not apply to notes, memoranda, and other aids to memory personally maintained by a supervisor for professional purposes.
Section G. The material referenced in this article does not apply to any material closed by statute.
11
ARTICLE XI COMPLAINTS
When a professional employee's immediate supervisor receives a complaint concerning the action of any professional employee, but before the immediate supervisor determines whether or not to take action with respect to that professional employee, the immediate supervisor shall discuss confidentially the nature and substance of the complaint with the professional employee. If the complaint is written, the immediate supervisor shall offer a copy of said complaint to the professional employee. The professional employee shall be given an opportunity to respond to the complaint, either orally or in writing at that time. If the investigation of the complaint proves to be groundless, the complaint shall be discarded. If a copy of the complaint is to be placed in the personnel file of the professional employee, the professional employee shall be given an opportunity to respond in writing when the complaint is forwarded for filing. The response of the professional employee shall be attached to the complaint in the professional employee's personnel file. The complaints referenced in this article do not apply to complaints closed by statute.
ARTICLE XII
DUE PROCESS AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES
Section A. Disciplinary action shall be for just cause and may include:
1.	Documented oral reprimand
2.	Written reprimand
3.	Suspension
4.	Discharge of a tenured teacher
5.	Discharge of a non-tenured teacher during the school year
Section B. The type of discipline, as outlined above, administered to any professional employee shall be determined on the basis of the seriousness of the offense involved and the professional employee's employment record. Disciplinary action shall be conducted in private and at the lowest supervisory level whenever feasible.
Section C. A fact-gathering conference may be held with the professional employee's immediate supervisor or the Division of Personnel Services prior to discipline. A fact-gathering conference shall be held prior to suspension or discharge. The professional employee will be entitled to at least twenty-four (24) hours notice of the fact-gathering conference, when feasible; shall be advised of the purpose of the conference; and shall have the right to have an Association Representative present, provided that the Association Representative attending such conference shall not participate in the conference and shall be present only as an observer. In the event a fact-gathering conference is conducted by the Division of Personnel Services, a professional Association staff representative may be present as observer. Following this conference, a professional employee who disagrees with the facts shall have two (2) working days (or longer by mutual agreement) to respond to the facts; and such response shall be in writing.
12
Section D. In the event of a referral or when the findings of the fact-gathering conference warranty the professional employee shall be entitled to a staff conference conducted by the Division of Personnel Services. Prior notice of this conference will be given, allowing at least three (3) working days following the fact-gathering conference/referral before the date of the staff conference, or a different period of time if by mutual agreement. At said conference, the professional employee may be accompanied by a professional Association staff representative. In cases warranting immediate separation from the school system, the Board shall have the discretion to impose a suspension pending an investigation prior to the staff conference in accordance with Tennessee Code Annotated 49-5-511.
Section E. A professional employee shall be notified, in writing, of any suspension or discharge. Such notice shall set forth the reason(s) for the action.
Section F. Grievances involving the suspension of a teacher or Mental Health/Support Professional shall begin at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
Section G. A regular teacher or Mental Health/Support Professional who is being discharged or not being reelected shall have the option of a hearing before the Board in accordance with Tennessee Code Annotated 49-5-512. Such discharge shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure.
Section H. The failure to reemploy a probationary or apprentice teacher shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure. Such teachers shall be notified in writing of non-renewal after having been apprised of the reason(s) for non-renewal.
ARTICLE XIII
SENIORITY
Section A.	Definitions
1.	In this Agreement, "regular teacher" is defined as one in the bargaining unit who is on "permanent tenure" or "limited tenure" with the Board.
2.	In this Agreement, "probationary teacher" or "apprentice teacher" is defined as a teacher in the bargaining unit who is not on either "permanent tenure" or "limited tenure" with the Board. After attaining "permanent tenure" or "limited tenure" such teacher shall be a "regular teacher".
3.	"Seniority" shall be defined as the length of a teacher's continuous service in the bargaining unit from the most recent date of permanent employment.
4.	Seniority shall accrue during authorized leaves of absence and layoffs up to eighteen (18) continuous months of such periods of absence or as otherwise mandated by law.
5.	A teacher who returns by Board transfer to a position presently in the bargaining unit, after occupying a position with the Board outside the bargaining unit, shall maintain seniority from the most recent date of continuous permanent employment.
6.	When the Memphis Board of Education assumes control of annexed schools, all teachers of the Shelby County School System who become teachers employed by the Memphis
13
Board of Education as a result of such annexation shall be granted seniority from the most recent date of continuous permanent employment by the Shelby County Board of Education. The most recent date of continuous permanent employment by the Shelby County Board of Education shall be determined by information furnished by the Shelby County Board of Education at the time of annexation.
Section B.	Current Employees
The seniority order (systemwide) for presently employed teachers who remain continuously employed shall be the seniority list as published by the Board on September 25,2000. Said list shall be updated annually. Teachers with identical dates of hire shall have their order on the seniority list established by random computer placement on the next seniority list published following their employment. That order shall be established and shall remain permanent as long as they are continuously employed.
Section C.	Seniority List
A seniority list (systemwide) shall be prepared and provided to the Association and posted on all teacher bulletin boards on or about September 30 of each school year. The validity of the seniority list shall become final and no longer subject to grievance upon the forty-fifth (45th) day of posting.
Section D.	Loss of Seniority
Seniority shall end upon resignation, failure to be re-elected, retirement, failure to return to work at the expiration of a leave of absence, failure to be recalled from layoff within eighteen (18) months from the date of layoff, or termination of employment for any other reason.
ARTICLE XIV
TRANSFER AND ASSIGNMENT
Section A.	Definition
1.	A "transfer" is defined as a teacher change from one location to another.
2.	"A teaching assignment" is defined as grade levels K-6, or subject(s) to be taught by a teacher, and duties assigned in a particular academic year at a school or other location; and "a teaching reassignment" is defined as a change in assignment.
Section B.	Voluntary Transfer
1.	Teaching vacancies that occur during the normal school year and through March 31 will be posted on or about April 1 for the next school year assignment. Each vacancy will be posted for eight (8) consecutive school days. Each posting will list the certification and requirements for each vacancy. Any teacher may request a transfer to no more than fifteen (15) locations in writing to the Division of Personnel Services on a form provided by that division to be submitted within the time frames required by the posting.
14
2.	Principals will interview the three (3) most senior teachers who apply and who meet the posting criteria. Selection will be based on the teacher who most closely meets the certification and requirements of the position as stated on the posting with race being a factor. If all factors are equal, systemwide seniority shall control.
3.	A vacancy will be posted one time. If no teacher applies for a transfer or none meets the posting criteria for the vacancy, the position will be filled at the Board’s discretion.
4.	A teacher who receives a voluntary transfer shall not be eligible for another voluntaiy transfer for a period of three (3) years.
5.	Teaching vacancies that occur after April 1 and before June 30 will be assigned by the Board. After June 30, vacancies will be posted in accordance with section B.l. of this article unless there are unassigned teachers. After all teachers are assigned, vacancies will be assigned in accordance with section B.6. of this article.
6.	Teaching vacancies that occur after June 30 and during the school year will be assigned by the Board on a temporary assignment basis and will be posted in accordance with section B.l.
7.	In the case of a vacancy in an 11 month or 12 month teaching position or a newly created job classification within the bargaining unit, a notice of such opening shall be posted for eight (8) consecutive school days during the regular school year and at the Personnel Services office during June, July, and August, during which time teachers may apply in writing to fill the position. The Board shall fill the opening in accordance with section B. 1.
Section C.	Involuntary Transfer and Surplusing of Teachers
1.	Except as otherwise stated in this article, and in involuntary transfers, systemwide seniority shall normally be the controlling factor provided that certification, race, and major coaching assignments are met, unless the Board asserts experience, curriculum needs and/or accreditation requirements as determining factors; however, if these factors are equal, systemwide seniority shall control.
2.	The principal/administrator may exercise his/her authority to make reassignments of teachers o other subjects or grades before declaring positions vacant. While recognizing the primacy of the education of the students and the principal's ultimate authority to make reassignments, such reassignments shall not be for arbitrary and capricious reasons. Teachers shall be advised in writing of any change in teaching assignments as soon as feasible.
3.	Staff reductions shall be primarily due to reduction in student population unless the Board asserts the factors or criteria in accordance with section C.l. To accomplish staff reductions for positions that have been declared surplus in a school or location, the principal/administrator shall notify teachers that volunteers will be considered; and when feasible, in the interest of the school system, said volunteers shall be surplused. Such volunteers shall submit their requests in writing.
15
4.	Teacher surplusing shall be by assignment in accordance with section C.l. Teachers shall be advised of surplusing in writing one day in advance, if feasible and practicable. The determination of surplus teachers shall not be for arbitrary reasons.
5.	Any teacher(s) affected by a staff reduction (including teachers from a school or location being closed) requiring movement to another location in the current or the ensuing school year shall be transferred if a vacancy exists for which the teacher meets the criteria under Section B.l.
6.	If vacancies are available, the Board shall make up to three (3) offers to the teacher whois eligible for such vacancy under Section C, 1, if requested by the teacher. If the teacher fails to accept one (1) of the bona fide offers made by the Board, the Board thereafter shall have the right to place such teacher in an appropriate vacancy. Consideration will be given to location preference when available.
Section D.	Bumping, Layoff and Recall of Teachers
1.	In layoffs and in recalls, systemwide seniority, certification, and coaching assignments (major sports) will be considered. If the requirements of certification and coaching are fulfilled, systemwide seniority shall prevail.
2.	a. In the event no vacancy exists for which the teacher affected by staff reduction meets the criteria, the teacher may exercise systemwide seniority to bump the teacher with the least amount of systemwide seniority in the school system in any assignment for which the teacher meets the criteria.
b. Teachers bumped under 2, a. of this Section D, may exercise seniority to bump the teacher with the least amount of seniority in any assignment for which the teacher meets the criteria; and this process will continue until it is no longer possible to bump a teacher with a less amount of seniority, at which time the teacher will be placed on layoff.
3.	As vacancies arise, a laid-off teacher will be recalled to the first available vacancy for which the teacher meets the criteria with the most senior teacher being recalled for such vacancy first. A teacher being recalled will be notified by certified or registered mail or telegram sent to the teacher's current address on file with the Division of Personnel Services. It shall be the teacher's responsibility to furnish the Division of Personnel Services his/her current address. If a laid-off teacher refuses to accept the first available position offered, the teacher shall be placed at the bottom of the list existing at the time of refusal. Failure to accept the next two positions offered shall result in termination.
Section E.	Administrative Transfers
The Superintendent shall have the right and the discretion to make administrative transfers and assignments in accordance with Tennessee law, and said transfers and assignments shall take precedence over all other transfers and assignments.
16
Section F.	General
1.	Due recognition shall be accorded to the number, the interrelated nature and complexity cf personnel actions required; to the complex nature of teachers' professional qualifications; and to the Board's ultimate responsibility for operating the school system in the public interest.
2.	The Board shall determine vacancies and surpluses.
3.	Vacancies related to the establishment of new locations will be filled at the discretion of the Board; however, the Board shall endeavor to assign its own employees to such positions and to do so in accordance with this article.
4.	Temporary, summer school, evening school, and special projects will be filled at the discretion of the Board; however, the Board shall endeavor to assign its own employees to such positions.
5.	The yearly term of employment of a professional employee, whether two hundred (200) days, 10,11, or 12 months, is a condition of employment; and the yearly ending and beginning of such employment shall not be regarded as layoffs or recalls. It is further understood that yearly term of employment refers only to the number of days or months within the calendar year that a professional employee is scheduled to work.
6.	The filling of positions outside the bargaining unit and the hiring of professional employees shall be within the sole discretion of the Superintendent and shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
7.	Until a teaching vacancy has been filled under the procedure set forth in this article, the Board may make temporary assignments.
Section G.	Principals, Assistant Principals, Instructional Supervisors and Mental Health/Support Professionals
The filling of the positions of principals, assistant principals, instructional supervisors and mental health/support professionals including promotion, demotion, transfer, assignment, layoff and recall shall not be for arbitrary and capricious reasons; however, such personnel actions shall be the sole discretion of the Superintendent and shall not be subject to grievance or arbitration.
ARTICLE XV
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section A.	General Provisions
1.	Professional employees shall be entitled to leaves of absence for the purposes and under conditions as provided in this article. All leaves of absence or extensions thereof under this article shall be applied for in writing on forms provided by the Board and shall be submitted as far in advance as possible. Conditions making applications for leave impossible will be considered. Any application for leave of absence exceeding thirty (30) days shall be made at least thirty (30) days prior to the leave except in case of personal illness, accident or other emergency, in which case such application shall be made within thirty (30) consecutive days
17
of absence. Applications for leave must state the reason for the leave applied for and the length of the leave from a date certain to a date certain. Leaves under this article shall not be used for any other purpose than that stated on the application and for which the leave was granted.
2.	Leaves of absence may be granted for a maximum of one (1) year except as mandated by law. The Board may grant extensions of the leaves provided for in this article.
3.	Except as otherwise indicated or required by law, leaves under this article will be without pay, fringe benefits, and increment privileges, but without loss of seniority.
4.	The professional employee on leave under this section shall return to his/her previously assigned full-time position. If the previously assigned position does not exist, the professional employee shall be assigned to a comparable position. All rights and privileges of this article are contingent upon the professional employee's return to the system upon expiration of the leave.
Section B.	Sick Leave
The Local Sick Leave Plan and the State Sick Leave Plan are programs which provide different leave benefits for specific purposes as described below. Teachers shall be covered by either the State Sick Leave Plan or the Local Sick Leave Plan in accordance with the eligibility requirements contained in the applicable plan.
Teachers covered under the Local Sick Leave Plan at the time of execution of this Agreement shall have the option of selecting sick leave provisions as provided for in the State Sick Leave Plan in subsection 2 of this section. It is understood and agreed that all such teachers shall make known their choice, to either select the State Sick Leave Plan or remain under the Local Sick Leave Plan, to the Payroll Section, Division of Finance, within thirty (30) calendar days after execution of this Agreement. Teachers who are eligible for this option and elect to be covered by the State Sick Leave Plan shall be credited as of July 1, 1997, with sick leave at the rate of one (1) day for each month taught not to exceed twelve (12) days per year and not to exceed four hundred eight (408) days sick leave in accordance with Tennessee Code Annotated 49-5-710 less the total number of days they have been absent due to personal illness or accident since September 1, 1963, or their last date of employment, whichever date is later.
1.	LOCAL SICK LEAVE PLAN
Teachers employed on or before September 1, 1969, who have not exercised their option to come under the State Sick Leave Plan, shall receive leave as follows:
a.	PERSONAL ILLNESS
(1)	Professional employees who are ill from natural causes, accident, or quarantine shall be granted leave for such illness provided that the Board may require from time to time and before resumption of work, a written certificate by a licensed physician stating that the professional employee is unable or able to work, as the case may be; provided further that the Board may require such certificate from a licensed physician of its own choosing, and in such event the expenses of such
18
examination would be paid by the Board. Normally, the certificate verifying illness or injury will be required where there may be a reason to believe that sick leave is excessive or is being abused.
(2)	Teachers shall be paid for such absences for days normally worked by the teacher at the teacher's regular rate of pay less sick leave deduction for a specified period of time not to exceed one (1) calendar year. This pay will begin the first day or hour, as appropriate, of absence with deduction at the rate (rounded to the nearest dollar) of one and forty-two one-hundredths (1.42) percent per day of the base monthly salary at Step 0 of the Bachelor's Degree Teacher's Schedule.
b.	ILLNESS IN THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY
Leave for illness in the immediate family will be granted for a period not exceeding one (1) year. Deduction for the first calendar month will be at the rate of the deduction per day in accordance with Section B, 1, a, (2) of this article. For the next two (2) months the deduction will equal the cost of a substitute. Further absence, up to the remainder of the calendar year, will require a leave of absence without pay. Immediate family is defined as including wife or husband, parents, grandparents, children, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-inlaw, and sister-in-law.
c.	MATERNITY
Any teacher who submits a written application, accompanied by a statement from a physician verifying her pregnancy on forms provided by the Division of Personnel Services, shall be granted maternity leave of absence without pay for a period up to one (1) year. Applications for such leave must be filed with the Division of Personnel Services at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the leave application or the expected date of confinement. After consultation with the teacher, the effective dates of such leaves may be adjusted a reasonable period of time (up to a maximum of four (4) weeks) to meet the educational needs of the system. In the event of unanticipated early confinement or related illnesses the thirty (30) day notice may be waived upon a written statement of a licensed physician indicating the inability of the teacher to give such notice. A teacher who becomes physically disabled during pregnancy shall be granted sick leave in accordance with the provisions of Section B, 1, a, (1) and (2) of this article for the period of time certified by a physician that she is physically disabled from performing her normal duties. A teacher will be returned to duty at the expiration of her maternity leave upon written certification from the attending licensed physician, licensed mid-wife, or licensed nurse practitioner, as defined in subsection 1, a (1) of this section, certifying the ability of the teacher to perform the work required.
d.	ADOPTION
Upon verification by a written statement from an adoption agency or other entity handling an adoption, a teacher may also be allowed to use up to thirty (30) days of accumulated sick leave for adoption of a child. If both adoptive parents are teachers, only one (1) parent is entitled to leave under this subsection.
19
e.	DEATH IN THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY
Three (3) consecutive workdays' absence without deduction will be allowed concurrent with the death or the funeral of the family member. Deduction for the next three (3) additional days will be at the rate of the deduction per day in accordance with Section B, 1, a (2) of this article.
f.	DEATH OF RELATIVE BEYOND IMMEDIATE FAMILY
Two (2) consecutive workdays' absence concurrent with the death or the funeral of the family member without deduction is allowed if the teacher resided with the deceased relative.
g.	PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL LEAVE
Teachers covered by this plan shall be allowed personal and professional leave not to exceed two (2) days' absence each year at the rate of the deduction per day in accordance with Section B, 1, a (2) of this article. Teachers planning to use a day or days under this provision shall notify their immediate supervisor at least one (1) day in advance, except in cases of emergency. Approval of such leaves may be withheld at the discretion of the Board. Unused personal and professional leave days shall be converted to retirement service credit at the end of each school year.
2.	STATE SICK LEAVE PLAN
Professional employees employed or reemployed after September 1,1969, or professional employees who exercised their option to come under this plan shall be granted one (1) sick leave day for each month employed. Sick leave shall be cumulative for all earned days not used and can be used for all types of leaves of absence described in this subsection 2, State Sick Leave Plan, except Personal and Professional Leave, which leave is accumulated and used independently as provided in subsection 2, e, of this section.
a.	PERSONAL ILLNESS
Professional employees who are ill from natural causes, accident, or quarantine shall be granted leave for such illness provided that the Board may require from time to time and before resumption of work, a written certificate by a licensed physician stating that the professional employee is unable or able to work, as the case may be; provided further that the Board may require such certificate from a licensed physician of its own choosing, and in such event the expenses of such examination would be paid by the Board. Normally, the certificate verifying illness or injury will be required where there may be a reason to believe that sick leave is excessive or is being abused.
b.	ILLNESS IN THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY
Professional employees shall be granted leave due to illness from natural causes, accident, or quarantine of a member of the professional employee’s immediate family, which shall include the professional employee's wife or husband, parents, grandparents,
20
children, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, and sister-in-law.
c.	MATERNITY
(1)	Any professional employee who submits a written application, accompanied by a statement from a physician verifying her pregnancy on forms provided by the Division of Personnel Services, shall be granted maternity leave of absence without pay for a period up to one (1) year. Applications for such leave must be filed with the Division of Personnel Services at least thirty (30) days prior to the requested date of the leave or expected date of confinement. After consultation with the professional employee, the effective dates of such leaves may be adjusted to a reasonable period of time (up to a maximum of four (4) weeks) to meet the educational needs of the system. In the event of unanticipated early confinement or related illnesses, the thirty (30) day notice may be waived upon a written statement of a licensed physician indicating the inability of the professional employee to give such notice. A professional employee who becomes physically disabled during pregnancy shall be granted sick leave in accordance with the provisions of Section B, 2, a, of this article for the period of time certified by a physician that she is physically disabled from performing her normal duties. A professional employee will be returned to duty at the expiration of her maternity leave upon written certification from the attending licensed physician, licensed mid-wife, or licensed nurse practitioner, as defined in subsection l,a, (1) of this section, certifying the ability of the professional employee to perform the work required.
(2)	Any professional employee who submits a written application, accompanied by a statement from a licensed physician verifying pregnancy, shall be allowed to use all or a portion of her accumulated sick leave for maternity leave purposes for a period not to exceed the professional employee's accumulated sick leave balance or thirty (30) working days, whichever is less.
d.	ADOPTION
Upon verification by a written statement from an adoption agency or other entity handling an adoption, a teacher may also be allowed to use up to thirty (30) days of accumulated sick leave for adoption of a child. If both adoptive parents are teachers, only one (1) parent is entitled to leave under this subsection.
e.	DEATH IN THE IMMEDIATE FAMILY
Up to three (3) days of sick leave shall be allowed due to the death of a member of the professional employee's immediate family as defined in subsection 2,b, of this section.
f.	PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL LEAVE
Teachers shall be allowed personal and professional leave earned at the rate of one (1) day for each half year employed, which shall not accumulate from year to year. Teachers planning to use a day or days under this provision shall notify their immediate
21
supervisor at least one (1) day in advance, except in cases of emergency. Approval of such leaves may be withheld at the discretion of the Board. Unused personal and professional leave days shall be converted to sick leave days at the end of each school year.
g.	CREDIT FOR RETIREMENT
Upon retirement any professional employee who has accumulated sick leave under Tennessee Code Annotated 49-5-710 shall be credited with such accumulated sick leave as credited service in accordance with the stipulations included in Tennessee Code Annotated 8-34-604 entitled "Credited Service."
Section C.	Government Service Leaves
Leaves of absence may be granted for the following specific purposes as provided below. All rights and privileges of this section are contingent upon the employee's return to the system upon expiration of the leave:
1.	CAMPAIGNING FOR ELECTIVE PUBLIC OFFICE
A candidate for elective public office may be granted a leave of absence for campaigning. Such leave shall not exceed two (2) months except that such additional time may be allowed in the event of a run-off.
2.	ELECTED STATE LEGISLATOR
A Tennessee State Legislator shall be granted a leave of absence for the period the Legislature is in session, for other occasional absences required by the responsibilities of the office, and for service on a Tennessee compensatory appointive public board. Such leaves shall be with fringe benefits, increment privileges, and pay but with a deduction at the rate of a substitute's pay.
3.	ELECTED CITY COUNCIL/PART-TIME POSITION
A member of the Memphis City Council or Shelby County Commission or someone holding a similar part-time elective position, may be granted a leave of absence. Teachers will be assigned to duties appropriate to their training and ability and will be paid at their regular salary rate for the time they are not engaged in the duties of the office. Absences without pay will be approved for the time required in fulfilling the duties of the office. Teachers will receive fringe benefits and increment privileges for all absences under this subsection 3.
4.	NONCOMPENSATORY APPOINTIVE PUBLIC BOARD
Leave may be granted for service on a Tennessee noncompensatory appointive public board.
22
Absence with no deduction is subject to the approval of the Superintendent, and such leaves shall be with full fringe benefits and increment privileges.
Section D.	Religious Leaves
Any teacher whose religious affiliation requires observance of holidays other than those scheduled in the school calendar may be granted leave for observance of such holiday(s) up to a maximum of five (5) days in any school year. Deductions for such absences shall be at the rate (rounded to the nearest dollar) of one and forty-two one-hundredths (1.42) percent per day of the base monthly salary at Step 0 of the Bachelor's Degree Teachers' Schedule.
Section E.	Professional employees may be granted leave without loss of pay for the reasons indicated below:
1.	Court Appearance. Professional employees subpoenaed to appear in judicial or quasijudicial proceedings or by a traffic summons upon presentation of the official subpoena or summons.
2.	Jury Duty. Professional employees who are required to report to qualify or serve on jury duty for the time the employee serves as a juror upon presentation of a written verification of attendance for qualifying and attendance on jury duty.
3.	Supervising student groups, at the discretion of the Superintendent.
4.	Professional meetings, not otherwise provided for in this article, at the discretion of the Superintendent.
Section F.	Military Service
Professional employees who enter the military service of the United States shall be granted a leave of absence and upon discharge from military service shall be reinstated and afforded all rights and privileges of employment, as mandated by the Military Selective Service Act as amended.
Section G.	Association Leaves
The following Association leaves of absence without pay, not to exceed one (1) year, may be granted by the Board in accordance with the provisions below:
1.	FULL-TIME SERVICE WITH THE MEMPHIS EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
At the request of the Memphis Education Association, the President of the Memphis Education Association and/or any professional employee who enters the full-time service of the Memphis Education Association for the purpose of engaging in the local, state, or national association activities, shall be granted leaves of absence, provided that there shall be no more than one (1) professional employee from any one location nor more than a total of three (3) such professional employees on leave at any one time, and further provided that at least thirty (30) days' notice is given. While on such leave, the President or any professional employee will be considered in the full-time service of the Memphis Education Association. The President shall be considered a member of the bargaining unit for the period of such leave. Any professional employee other than the President, shall not be
23
considered a member of the bargaining unit for the period of such leave. Upon return, the President will be given increment privileges. Should the President be elected for a two-year term, the Board upon request shall grant the President leave for the term of office.
2.	ELECTED DELEGATES TO NATIONAL CONVENTIONS
Professional employees elected as delegates to the national convention of the National Education Association shall be granted leaves of absence provided that the number of professional employees granted leave at one time shall not exceed two (2) from any one location nor a total of ten (10). Application for leave of absence must be made not less than thirty (30) days before such leave is to begin.
3.	ELECTED DELEGATES TO TEA REPRESENTATIVE ASSEMBLY
Professional employees elected as delegates to the Tennessee Education Association Representative Assembly shall be granted leaves of absence provided that the number of professional employees granted leaves at one time shall not exceed one hundred seventy (170). Application for such leave of absence must be made not less than thirty (30) days before such leave is to begin.
4.	VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE MEMPHIS EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
The Vice-President of the Memphis Education Association shall be granted leave with pay by the teacher's immediate supervisor for the purpose of engaging in local, state, or national association activities not to exceed five (5) days in any school year. Such leave may be withheld if it adversely interferes with the educational needs of the school.
Section H.	Education Leaves
Leaves of absence without pay not exceeding one (1) year may be granted teachers who wish to further their education on a full-time basis provided such academic work entails a minimum of at least eight (8) semester hours per semester or twelve (12) quarter hours per quarter. No teacher shall be eligible for more than one (1) such leave every seven (7) years of consecutive service with the Memphis City Schools.
Section I.	Miscellaneous Leave
Leave for miscellaneous reasons may be granted by the teacher's immediate supervisor for a period not exceeding five (5) work days. Any extension or initial application in excess of the initial five (5) work days shall be made through the teacher's immediate supervisor and may be granted with the approval of the Division of Personnel Services and the immediate supervisor. Both extensions and initial applications for miscellaneous leave in excess of thirty (30) work days must be filed with the Division of Personnel Services in accordance with the provisions of Section A, of this article, and may be granted at the discretion of the Board.
Section J. Except in the case of illness, pregnancy, accident, military leave, elected state legislator leave, or death in the family (subject to supporting proof as provided in this article), consent to leave of absence may be withheld or deferred at the discretion of the Board. A professional employee who 24
has been granted a leave of absence shall be considered as having quit without notice and shall be terminated from employment by the Board if, while on such leave of absence, he/she engages in or applies for other employment, other than as provided in this article, without the consent of the Board.
Section K. Professional employees granted nonpaid leaves of absence under this article will have the option to continue the applicable Board of Education Group Insurance Plan with the total cost to be paid by the professional employee in advance, in annual, semiannual, quarterly, or monthly payments, except as otherwise provided for in this article.
ARTICLE XVI
SCHOOL DAY
Section A. Teachers are expected to be at their schools and in their classes before and after classes in order to fulfill their professional responsibilities. Specific times and signing-in requirements may be established by the Board.
Section B. Recognizing the importance of a total educational program in the development of students, it is agreed that before and after school activities, faculty, department and committee meetings, parent conferences, extra help for students, evening meetings and other responsibilities beyond the work day are a part of a professional employee's professional responsibility. These responsibilities shall be assumed as necessary and/or assigned by the professional employee's supervisor.
Section C. It is recognized that the presence of all teachers on campus at required times is necessary for the proper supervision of students. Accordingly, any departure from the campus when students are present must be requested through the building principal and will be granted only for emergencies.
ARTICLE XVII
WORK HOURS AND WORK YEAR
Section A.	School Day for Ten Month Teachers
The normal school day for teachers shall be seven and one-quarter (7 1/4) hours.
Section B.	Number of Days for Ten Month Teachers
The work year for ten (10) month teachers shall be no more than two hundred (200) days: one hundred eighty (180) teaching days, five (5) days in-service training, one (1) parent-teacher conference day, four (4) days administrative, and ten (10) days vacation. For the purpose of this article, teachers who are employed for two hundred (200) days shall be designated as ten (10) month teachers.
25
Section C.	School Closings
If schools are closed due to inclement weather or other emergencies beyond the control of the teacher or the Association, such closing will not result in loss of pay if the teacher completes the school year in which the school closing occurred. The Board will make the election of whether such days will be made up by the scheduling of later school days. The Board will consult with the Association concerning the revised school calendar. The absence of teachers due to inclement weather or any other emergency beyond the control of the teacher or the Association will be treated as any other absence.
ARTICLE XVIII
GENERAL
Section A. If any article, section, or portion of this Agreement be held unlawful and unenforceable by any court of competent and final jurisdiction, such decision of the court shall apply only to the specific article, section, or portion involved and shall not invalidate the remaining portions of this Agreement. The Parties agree that any article, section, or portion so set aside shall be the subject of negotiations with the intention of agreeing on substitute language. Such negotiations shall be strictly limited to the article, section, or portion held unlawful and unenforceable and shall be initiated on the request of either Party.
Section B. The Parties agree that there shall be no discrimination against any teacher because of race, creed, color, political affiliation, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability or marital status or because of membership or nonmembership or participation or nonparticipation in Association activities. There shall be no retaliation for participation in the grievance procedure.
Section C. Any notice to be given by one Party to the other under this Agreement shall be given by certified mail, telegram, registered mail, or receipted hand delivery. If given by the Board, said notice shall be sent to the Executive Director, Memphis Education Association, 126 South Flicker, Memphis, Tennessee 38104. If given by the Association, said notice will be sent to the Director of Employee Relations, Board of Education, Memphis City Schools, 2597 Avery Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38112. Either Party may by like written notice change the address at which notice to it may be given.
Section D. The Board agrees to maintain safe and sanitary conditions in accordance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations in all work areas.
ARTICLE XIX
ACCIDENTS, ASSAULTS, AND PROPERTY DAMAGE
Section A.	Accidents on the Job
1.	The Board agrees to provide the following benefits to any professional employee who is disabled as the direct result of an accident which is suffered in the course of the professional employee performing the duties of employment with the Board:
26
During the first two (2) consecutive months of disability, professional employee(s) shall receive one hundred percent (100%) of their normal salary for those days normally scheduled to work. After the second consecutive month of disability, the professional employee shall be entitled to the appropriate regular sick leave pay for those days normally scheduled to work in accordance with Article XV, Leaves of Absence.
2.	"Disability" as used herein shall mean the total inability of the professional employee to carry out his/her duties. The Board may require such proof of disability as it shall deem proper, including a medical examination by a physician who may be selected by the Board, including a physician practicing a particular specialty. Should the Board require such examination from a physician of its choosing, the examination will be paid for by the Board.
3.	In order to qualify for benefits under this article, a professional employee must give notice on the day of the accident to the professional employee's immediate supervisor unless the professional employee is prevented by disability incurred as the result of the accident from giving such notice; in which event notice should be given as soon as possible.
4.	In the event of legislation requiring the Board to adopt a particular system of workers' compensation or should the Board decide to adopt a system of workers' compensation, such system shall be substituted for the provisions of this article.
5.	The Board will pay for necessary and reasonable medical expenses for on-the-job injury sustained by any professional employee who is currently covered by the Board's group insurance plan provided such injury has resulted from causes other than personal or professional negligence and is not covered under Section C of this article. Where the fact of an on-the-job injury has been established, medical expenses shall include the reasonable and necessary repair or replacement of required prescription eyeglasses directly resulting from the injury, not to exceed two hundred-fifty dollars ($250). Total payments by the Board for said medical expenses incurred following date of injury and not reimbursable through any personal or group insurance coverage the professional employee may have shall not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) during such a period of time as is deemed necessary, but in no event shall the period of time exceed that stipulated under the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Law of the State of Tennessee and amendments thereto. In computing hospital room costs, the allowance shall not exceed the semi-private rate unless the physician orders a private room. In case of said injury, the Board reserves the right to have the professional employee examined by a physician designated by the Board at such time or times as it may determine in its discretion to assist in ascertaining the nature and extent of disability attributed to the injury. Should the Board require such examination from a physician of its own choosing, the examination will be paid for by the Board.
Section B.	Physical Attack Upon Professional Employees
1.	The Board agrees to provide the following benefits to any professional employee who is disabled as a result of a direct, unprovoked physical attack upon said professional employee in the line of duty while on school premises, on approved field trips, or in the course of performing the duties of employment with the Board.
During the first twelve (12) months of disability, the professional employee shall receive
27
one hundred (100%) of his or her normal salary for scheduled work days. After the first twelve (12) months of disability, the professional employee shall be entitled to the appropriate regular sick leave pay for scheduled work days in accordance with Article XV, Leaves of Absence.
2.	"Disability" as used herein shall mean the total inability of the professional employee to carry out his or her duties. The Board may require that a certificate of a licensed physician, including a physician practicing a particular specialty, as designated by the Board, be furnished by the professional employee in all cases deemed proper by the Board. The Board may also require such certificate from a licensed physician of its own choosing. Should the Board require such examination from a physician of its own choosing, the examination will be paid for by the Board.
3.	The Board will pay for necessary and reasonable medical expenses for personal injury in the amount of such expense incurred during the calendar year immediately following the date of injury and not reimbursable through any personal or group insurance coverage the employee may have, provided that the total payments by the Board for such medical expenses shall not exceed five thousand ($5,000). In computing hospital room costs, the allowance shall not exceed the semi-private rate unless the physician orders a private room. In case of such injury, the Board reserves the right to have the professional employee examined by a physician designated by the Board in its discretion to assist in ascertaining the nature and extent of disability attributed to the injury. Should the Board require such examination from a physician of its own choosing, the examination will be paid for by the Board.
■4. In order to qualify for benefits under this section, a professional employee must give notice on the day of the occurrence to the professional employee's immediate supervisor unless the professional employee is prevented by disability incurred form the result of the occurrence from giving such notice, in which event notice should be given as soon as possible.
Section C.	Malicious Property Damage
The Board will reimburse a professional employee for cost of repairs or replacement of personal property damaged or destroyed in line of duty as a result of malicious acts and without the fault of the professional employee, provided, in the case of a vehicle, such vehicle is being used on authorized school system business or is parked or driven on or adjacent to school system premises or at the site of authorized school system activities, and provided the following stipulations are applicable:
1.	No reimbursement will be made for loss through theft of personal property or a vehicle or for damage resulting from collision of a vehicle, except that consideration will be given to claims resulting from theft of such parts of a vehicle as are essential to the functioning of said vehicle.
2.	Maximum payment for any one loss will not exceed three hundred dollars ($300), except in the case of a vehicle, where maximum payment will not exceed five hundred dollars ($500).
3.	Depreciation will be prorated on all claims.
4.	In order to qualify for reimbursement under this section, notice must be given to the
28
professional employee's immediate supervisor on the day of the occurrence. The professional employee shall make a good faith effort to give such notice on the day of the occurrence; however, if it is impossible to give such notice on the day of the occurrence, notice shall be given as soon as possible. The professional employee must present a written statement to the Board within ten (10) calendar days of the occurrence stating the circumstances of loss and the repair or replacement cost.
Section D. A Board of Appeal established for the decision of cases coming under this article will determine all questions of fact and interpretation arising under accident on the job, physical assault and malicious property damage. The Professional employee will be entitled to appear before such Board of Appeal. The Association may be present at the Board of Appeal at die request of the professional employee. The decision of the Board in regard to Sections A, B, and C of this article shall not be subject to arbitration.
Section E. The use of personal automobiles by professional employees to transport children on approved activities shall not be required by the Board. However, if a professional employee's personal automobile is voluntarily used for approved events and the use has been authorized by the appropriate supervisor, the professional employee shall be protected by a blanket liability insurance maintained by the Board in the amount of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00), if the professional employee has his/her own liability insurance. Such Board insurance shall take effect following the initial liability of the professional employee's personal insurance coverage.
When a professional employee is driving a Board-owned vehicle, the professional employee shall be covered by Board liability insurance.
ARTICLE XX
RETIREMENT
All professional employees hired during the life of this Agreement shall be enrolled in the Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System, except for those professional employees who are rehired by the Board and who have retained membership in the Memphis Local Retirement System. All professional employees enrolled in either the Memphis Local Retirement System or the Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System shall be subject to the terms and conditions as specified by the applicable system. Controversies under either retirement system which arise from matters that are the responsibility of the Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System or the Memphis Local Retirement System shall be resolved according to the terms and conditions as specified by the applicable system. Responsibilities of the Board are to be limited to notification, enrollment procedures, and transmittal of retirement contributions.
29
ARTICLE XXI
NEGOTIATING PROCEDURES
During negotiation of a successor agreement provided for in Article XXVII, Length of Agreement, the Parties agree to bargain in good faith. Each Party has the responsibility for selecting the members of its own negotiating team from within or outside of the Memphis City School System. Neither Party shall have any control over the selection of the other Party's team. Neither team shall exceed twelve (12) persons. The Parties pledge that the members selected by each shall be clothed with all the necessary power and authority to present and to consider proposals, to make concessions in the course of negotiations, and to reach agreement, subject to ratification by each Party.
ARTICLE XXII
WORK STOPPAGE
There shall be no slowdown, work by rule, work actions, strike, picketing, boycott, or other stoppage of, suspension of, or interference with the Board's work or business. The Board agrees that it will not cause or engage in any lockout for the duration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIII
EFFECT OF AGREEMENT
The Parties acknowledge that during negotiations which resulted in this Agreement each had the ultimate right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter not removed by law from the area of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the Parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. The Parties, therefore, agree that negotiations will not be reopened on any item contained in this Agreement during the life of this Agreement except as specifically provided in Article XVIII, General, Section A.
ARTICLE XXIV
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
To hire, transfer, reassign, lay off, promote, dismiss or demote professional employees, and to determine their qualifications therewith, and the conditions for their continued employment; to exercise executive, management and administrative control, and authority of the school system properties, facilities, students, and professional employees; to establish, change or modify methods, curriculum, schedules, techniques, machines, extracurricular activities, processes, means and ends; the duties, responsibilities, evaluation, and assignment of professional employees; to increase,
30
decrease or discontinue operations, programs or facilities in whole or in part; to contract, subcontract, transfer, lease, assign or convey services performed by professional employees in the bargaining unit in whole or in part; to establish, change, or modify daily, weekly, term or yearly professional employee schedules; the number, qualification, location, and disposition of professional employees; to establish, change, or modify, and enforce school regulations and Board policies and procedures are among the sole prerogatives of the Board, provided that no actions shall be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement. Provided further, that all rights and powers possessed by the Board prior to the execution of this Agreement and not specifically waived herein shall be retained exclusively by the Board.
ARTICLE XXV
INSURANCE
Section A. The Board Group Insurance shall be maintained by the Board under the existing terms and conditions subject to changes as agreed to by the Parties during the term of this Agreement. The Insurance Program shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
Section B. Participation in the Group Insurance Program (Health and/or Life) under this article shall be at the option of each professional employee.
Section C. The premium for the Insurance Program provided under this article for professional employee coverage shall be paid in the following ratio:
Individual Coverage Family Coverage
Board:	90%	Board:	70%
Employee: 10%	Employee: 30%
The Board will contribute the same dollar amount to any Health Maintenance Organization offered to professional employees as it does to the Board Group Health Insurance Plan.
Section D. The Group Life Insurance for each professional employee shall be increased to a total of two (2) times the annual salary of said professional employee as of January 1 of each year to the nearest thousand dollars.
Section E.
1.	The Board shall continue to pay its share of the premium for the insurance program under this article for a professional employee on a paid leave of absence, provided the professional employee pays his/her share of the premium to the Board within thirty (30) days of the billing date.
2.	Insurance benefits trader this article shall continue through the balance of the contractual year for a professional employee who has exhausted accrued sick leave, provided the professional employee pays the full premium to the Board in annual, semiannual, quarterly, or monthly payments.
31
3.	Professional employees on a nonpaid leave for one (1) month or longer shall have the option to continue the insurance program under this article by paying the full premium to the Board in advance in annual, semiannual, quarterly, or monthly payments.4. Laid-off professional employees shall have the option to continue the insurance program under this article for up to one (1) year from the date of layoff by paying the full premium to the Board in advance in annual, semiannual, quarterly, or monthly payments.
Section F. Professional employees shall have the option of selecting one of the following group health insurance programs. Once a professional employee exercises this option, membership in the program selected shall continue to the subsequent January 1. Notification of changes for subsequent years shall be made by notifying the Insurance Section, Division of Employee Relations, in writing, no earlier than November 1 and no later than December 1.
Option A. Prudential of Memphis-Health Maintenance Organization (HMO)
Option B. Board Group Insurance
Option C. BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee HMO - Health Maintenance Organization (HMO)
Section G. The Board shall provide a dental insurance plan maintained by the Board as a supplement to and under the terms and conditions of the Board Group Insurance Plan.
Section H. Upon retirement employees shall have the option to continue to participate in the Board Group Health Insurance Plan as a retiree under the terms, conditions and rules as established by the Board. No matter respecting the retiree's group health insurance plan shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE XXVI
COMPENSATION
Section A. The salaries of teachers covered by this Agreement are set forth in Appendix D which is attached to and incorporated in this Agreement. Non-degree teachers shall be paid seventy-six percent (76%) of the appropriate step of Appendix D, B.S. Degree Salary Column. Non-degree teachers with less than two (2) years college training will not receive Steps 11 or above in the group classification. Non-degree teachers with more than two (2) years college training will not receive Step 16 or above in the group classification.
Section B. Teachers involved in supplement activities set forth in Appendices F, G, and H, which are attached to and incorporated in this Agreement, shall be compensated within the provisions thereof.
Section C.	New or Former Teachers
1.	New or former teachers entering the system will be placed on the beginning step of the appropriate salary schedule. Upon verification of creditable teaching experience, degree(s) earned, and/or military service filed in the Division of Personnel Services on or before the first day of work, the teachers' salaries will be adjusted to the applicable step on the appropriate salary schedule. If such verification is filed subsequent to the first day of work, any applicable salary adjustments will become effective on the first July 1 following employment.
32
2.	The criteria and method for calculating creditable prior service and training will be the same as those used by the State Department of Education. In determining the applicable step on the Salary Schedule, credit for prior teaching and/or military service will be allowed as indicated in the column below entitled "Other Service, Number of Years." The maximum amount of creditable military service is five years.
OTHER SERVICE. NO. OF YEARS 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 and over
MEMPHIS SERVICE 0 1 2 3 4
5 6
7	'
8
9
10 and over
3.	No person entering the system for the first time may begin above the tenth step on the schedule, with the following exceptions: Shelby County teaching service shall be considered as Memphis City School service rather than prior service when such teachers enter the Memphis City School System by annexation, but not otherwise.
Section D.	Reevaluation
The service of any employee (prior plus Memphis City School service earned after July 1) will be re-evaluated in July following employment if it would be monetarily beneficial to the employee.
Section E.	Change in Position on Salary Schedule
1.	In the event of a change in training status of a teacher during the school year, the applicable numerical service step on the Memphis salary schedule will be applicable upon filing in the Personnel Services Division an amended teaching certificate that verifies the acceptance of the additional training by the State Department of Education and an official transcript reflecting the degree and the date of confirmation. The effective date of salary change will be at the end of the college semester or quarter, or the date all requirements were met for receiving the degree if they were met prior to one month or more before the date of graduation. These salary adjustments are not retroactive beyond the current fiscal school year.
Section F. The Board shall provide teachers the option of a gross check of five hundred dollars ($500) at the end of the first two (2) weeks of school, and the balance of the first check will be paid at the regular pay period.
33
Section G. Effective September 15 of each school year, teachers shall be paid an annual salary prorated on a twice-a-month basis under one of the two plans outlined below. Once a teacher selects a pay plan, no change in election may be made until July of the next school year. Notification of changes for subsequent years shall be made by notifying the Personnel Services Division, in writing, no earlier than July 1 and no later than August 1.
Plan One: Ten (10) month teachers may receive equal gross pay checks issued twice a month on or before the first (1st) and on or before the fifteenth (15th) of each month over a period of twelve months.
Plan Two: Effective September 15 of each school year, ten (10) month teachers may receive equal gross pay checks issued twice a month on or before the first (1st) and on or before the fifteenth (15th) of each month within a school year for which a teacher is contractually responsible.
Section H.	Professional employees other than ten (10) month teachers, who are employed on a ten (10) month, eleven (11) month, or twelve (12) month calendar basis will receive their pay checks on a biweekly basis over the number of months that they are employed.
Section I.	Professional employees may elect to have their paycheck direct deposited into the Memphis Area Teachers Credit Union or local area bank account(s) of the professional employee.
Section J. The salary of the teachers and mental health/support professionals covered by this Agreement as set forth in Appendix D indicates salary for ten (10) month teachers and is the monthly salary for a ten (10) month period. Eleven (11) and twelve (12) month teachers and mental health/support professionals shall have their salaries prorated proportionately.
Section K. The salaries for supervisors covered by this Agreement are set forth in Appendix D which indicates monthly salaries for ten (10) month teachers. Supervisors shall have their salaries prorated on a biweekly basis over the number of months worked by each employee. In addition to the salaries as set forth in Appendix D, supervisors shall receive a one thousand five hundred dollar ($1,500) annual salary supplement for performing the duties of a supervisor. Effective July 1,2001, supervisors will receive a two thousand dollar ($2,000) annual salary supplement and effective July 1,2002, supervisors will receive a two thousand five hundred dollar ($2,500) annual supplement for performing the duties of a supervisor.
Section L. The salaries for principals and assistant principals covered by this Agreement are set forth in Appendix E. These salaries shall be prorated proportionately over the number of months worked by the employee and paid on a biweekly basis. The principals' salaries are indexed from the teachers' salary schedule MA + 45 degree, step 15. The assistant principals' salaries are indexed from the teachers' salary schedule MA degree, step 15.
Section M. Professional employees who currently receive mileage reimbursement for driving personal automobiles on school business will continue to receive such reimbursement at the rate established by the Board.
34
ARTICLE XXVII
LENGTH OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective July 1,2000, and shall remain in effect through June 30,2003, and from year to year thereafter unless at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement or any anniversary thereof notice by registered or certified mail is given by either Party of the desire to terminate, modify, or amend this Agreement.
Executed this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
35
RECOGNITION
APPENDIX A
The following positions constitute all positions included within Article II, Recognition, of this Agreement for the purpose of collective bargaining between the Board and the Memphis Education Association.
Teachers
Attendance Teacher
Classroom Teacher
Consumer Home Economics Teacher
Contract Teachers (Less than full-time on contract to teach with prorated salary) Education Resource Specialist Instructional Facilitator
Librarian
Professional School Counselor
Special Education Resource Specialist
Special Education Teacher
Vocational Teacher
Instructional Supervisors
Adult Basic Education Consultant
Adult Education Supervisor
Adult Vocational Education Consultant
Adult Vocational Education Supervisor
Art Specialist
Business/Office Technology Supervisor
Coordinator, Alternative Instruc. Strategies
Driver Education Supervisor
Elementary Supervisor
ESL Supervisor
Family and Consumer Science Supervisor
Foreign Language Specialist
Guidance Supervisor - Elementary
Guidance Supervisor - Secondary
Health Science Ed./Cosmetology Supervisor
Individualized Math Supervisor
Industrial Education Supervisor
Language Arts Supervisor
Marketing Education Supervisor
Math Supervisor
Micro Computer Supervisor
Instructional Supervisors (continued)
Music Specialist
P.E./Wellness Specialist
Reading Improvement Supervisor
Science Supervisor
Social Studies Supervisor
Special Education Supervisor
Technology Education Supervisor Trade
Principals
Principal
Middle College Principal
Principal, Career and Technology
Program Manager Specialty Principal
Assistant Principals
Assistant Principal
Assistant Principal, Career and Technology Residential Training Center Manager
Mental Health/Support Professionals
Alcohol/Drug Counselor
Alcohol/Drug Prevention Coordinator Community Resource Liaison Homemaker - Social Worker Library Services Supervisor Prevention/Intervention Supervisor Prevention/Intervention Specialist Psychologist Science Specialist Social Worker
Social Work Supervisor
Special Education Social Worker Supervising Psychologist
36
Memphis Education Association Grievance Form (Article III) Teacher or Specialist Name Location
Assignment____________________________ ■
________________________________________[Grade(s), Subjects) and Job Title
Step 1
Date of violation Dategriev nee filed.
Nature of grievance_____________________________________________________________________________________
Specific provision(s) violated__________________________'_______________________________________________
Specific relief sought'
Appendix B
Association Representation Desired:
_Yes _No	_________________________________________________
-	Signature of Employee
Disposition by Principal or Division Director
Date received Date meeting set
Response____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Copy to: Superintendent's Designated Representative			
Associate Superintendent		Signature of Princrpal/Director	(Date)
j. Grievance resolved: _Yes _No Appealed to Step 2 _ Yes _ No			
Signature of Employee and/or Association Representative	(Date)		
37 Copy to: Association Office (to be provided by Grievant)			
Step 2
Date received Date meeting set
Response______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Copy to:	.
Superintendent's Designated Representative	;
Principal or Division Director	Signature (Date)
Grievance resolved:
_Yes _No Appealed to Step 3 _Yes _No
Signature of Employee and/or Association Representative	(Date)
Copy to: Association Office (to be provided by Grievant)
Step 3 Disposition by Superintendent or Designated Representative
Date received; Date meeting set
Response_________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Copy to:
Associate Superintendent	'	___________________________________________
Principal or Division Director	Signature	(Date)
Grievance resolved: _Yes _No Appealed to Step 4 _Yes _No	
Signature of Employee and/or Association Representative Copy to: Association Office (to be provided by Grievant)	(Date)
Request for arbitration due: _____________________________________________________;________________________________________
Request submitted: __________________________________________________________________:______________________________________
List of arbitrators received:_______________________________________________________________________________________________
Selection due:
Selection made:_________________________________________________________________________
Date____________________________
Date____________________________
Date____________________________
Date____________________________
Date_____________________________
APPENDIX C
ASSOCIATION GRIEVANCES
The Parties agree that the intent of Section B, Article III, of the Agreement is as follows:
1.	A teacher or Mental Health/Support Professional may file a grievance for himself/herself only; the teacher or Mental Health/Support Professional may not file for a group or a class of teachers or Mental Health/Support Professionals.
2.	A grievance filed by a teacher or Mental Health/Support Professional must be limited to allegations of a violation or misapplication of the Agreement which involves a direct personal right or affects him/her directly and personally.
3.	A teacher or Mental Health/Support Professional may not file grievances involving rights or processes relating to Association matters such as alleged failure to permit entry into the school by a staff representative, failure to remit dues, use of facilities, matters concerning the establishment or nonestablishment or operation of committees.
4.	The President of the Association may file grievances as a teacher or Mental Health/Support Professional as provided in (1) and (2) above. He/she may also file as the President, in which case he/she may file the type of grievance listed in (3) above.
By mutual agreement between the Association and the Superintendent's designated representative, the President of the Association may file an Association grievance on behalf of a group of teachers or on behalf of a group of Mental Health/Support Professionals.
The President may not file a complaint for a principal, assistant principal, or instructional supervisor.
5.	An Association grievance as described in No. 3 above directly affecting a single school shall be presented at Step 1 of the grievance procedure. All other Association grievances shall be initiated at Step 3 of the grievance procedure.
39
APPENDIX D
MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULES
TEACHERS -10 MONTHS Effective July 1, 2000
SALARY GRADES					
STEP	300 B.A DGRE	310 MA DGRE	316 MA+45 DGRE	330 ED.S. DGRE	340 PH.D. DGRE
0	$ 3,204.50	$ 3,469.93	$ 3,744.22	$ 3,797.88	$ 3,940.02
1	$ 3,271.24	$ 3,552.33	$ 3,840.01	$ 3,894.50	$ 4,031.49
2	$ 3,352.51	$ 3,631.74	$ 3,931.16	$ 3,985.44	$ 4,122.43
3	$ 3,428.42	$ 3,708.07	$ 4,020.36	$ 4,074.85	$ 4,211.53
4	$ 3,499.49	$ 3,785.52	$ 4,118.11	$ 4,172.80	$ 4,313.91
5	$ 3,562.36	$ 3,851.48	$ 4,195.40	$ 4,247.51	$ 4,390.68
6	$ 3,651.45	$ 3,946.03	$ 4,304.78	$ 4,357.52	$ 4,500.48
7	$ 3,726.13	$ 4,023.49	$ 4,407.16	$ 4,462.37	$ 4,599.57
8	$ 3,800.29	$ 4,104.34	$ 4,494.71	$ 4,551.47	$ 4,686.91
9	$ 3,873.21	$ 4,180.56	$ 4,587.41	$ 4,643.24	$ 4,812.68
10	$ 3,950.77	$ 4,264.92	$ 4,681.56	$ 4,735.32	$ 4,875.20
11	$ 4,058.20	$ 4,378.94	$ 4,822.25	$ 4,873.45	$ 5,016.82
12	$ 4,155.84	$ 4,476.28	$ 4,928.14	$ 4,984.69	$ 5,120.75
13	$ 4,254.93	$ 4,572.38	$ 5,045.25	$ 5,098.71	$ 5,242.19
14	$ 4,347.53	$ 4,675.07	$ 5,149.79	$ 5,206.44	$ 5,341.68
15	$ 4,446.92	$ 4,769.21	$ 5,263.61	$ 5,319.44	$ 5,458.07
16	$ 4,446.92	$ 4,769.21	$ 5,263.61	$ 5,319.44	$ 5,458.07
17	$ 4,446.92	$ 4,769.21	$ 5,263.61	$ 5,319.44	$ 5,458.07
18	$ 4,553.88	$ 4,879.69	$ 5,379.24	$ 5,435.65	$ 5,575.62
40
APPENDIX D
MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULES
TEACHERS -10 MONTHS
Effective July 1, 2001
SALARY GRADES					
STEP	300 BA DGRE	310 MA DGRE	316 MA+45 DGRE	330 ED.S. DGRE	340 PH.D. DGRE
0	$ 3,330.64	$ 3,604.03	$ 3,886.55	$ 3,941.82	$ 4,088.22
1	$ 3,399.38	$ 3,688.90	$ 3,985.21	$ 4,041.34	$ 4,182.43
2	$ 3,483.09	$ 3,770.69	$ 4,079.09	$ 4,135.00	$	4,276.10
3	$ 3,561.27	$ 3,849.31	$ 4,170.97	$ 4,227.10	$	4,367.88
4	$ 3,634.47	$ 3,929.09	$ 4,271.65	$ 4,327.98	$ 4,473.33
5	$ 3,699.23	$ 3,997.02	$ 4,351.26	$ 4,404.94	$ 4,552.40
6	$ 3,790.99	$ 4,094.41	$ 4,463.92	$ 4,518.25	$ 4,665.49
7	$ 3,837.91	$ 4,144.19	$ 4,539.37	$ 4,596.24	$ 4,737.56
8	$ 3,914.30	$ 4,227.47	$ 4,629.55	$ 4,688.01	$ 4,827.52
9	$ 3,989.41	$ 4,305.98	$ 4,725.03	$ 4,782.54	$ 4,957.06
10	$ 4,069.29	$ 4,392.87	$ 4,822.01	$ 4,877.38	$ 5,021.46
11	$ 4,179.95	$ 4,510.31	$ 4,966.92	$ 5,019.65	$ 5,167.32
12	$ 4,280.52	$ 4,610.57	$ 5,075.98	$ 5,134.23	$	5,274.37
13	$ 4,382.58	$ 4,709.55	$ 5,196.61	/$ 5,251.67	$	5,399.46
14	$ 4,477.96	$ 4,815.32	$ 5,304.28	$ 5,362.63	$ 5,501.93
15	$ 4,580.33	$ 4,912.29	$ 5,421.52	$ 5,479.02	$	5,621.81
16	$ 4,580.33	$ 4,912.29	$ 5,421.52	$ 5,479.02	$	5,621.81
17	$ 4,580.33	$ 4,912.29	$ 5,421.52	$ 5,479.02	$	5,621.81
18	$ 4,713.27	$ 5,050.48	$ 5,567.51	$ 5,625.90	$	5,770.77
41
APPENDIX D
MONTHLY SALARY SCHEDULES
TEACHERS -10 MONTHS Effective July 1, 2002
SALARY GRADES					
STEP	300 BA DGRE	310 MA DGRE	316 MA+45 DGRE	330 ED.S. DGRE	340 PH.D. DGRE
0	$ 3,470.56	$ 3,752.15	$ 4,043.15	$ 4,100.07	$ 4,250.87
1	$ 3,541.36	$ 3,839.57	$ 4,144.77	$ 4,202.58	$ 4,347.90
2	$ 3,627.58	$ 3,923.81	$ 4,241.46	$ 4,299.05	$ 4,444.38
3	$ 3,708.11	$ 4,004.79	$ 4,336.10	$ 4,393.91	$ 4,538.92
4	$ 3,783.50	$ 4,086.96	$ 4,439.80	$ 4,497.82	$ 4,647.53
5	$ 3,850.21	$ 4,156.93	$ 4,521.80	$ 4,577.09	$ 4,728197
6	$ 3,944.72	$ 4,257.24	$ 4,637.84	$ 4,693.80	$ 4,845.45
7	$ 3,993.05	$ 4,308.52	$ 4,715.55	$ 4,774.13	$ 4,919.69
8	$ 4,071.73	$ 4,394.29	$ 4,808.44	$ 4,868.65	$ 5,01235
9	$ 4,109.09	$ 4,435.16	$ 4,866.78	$ 4,926.02	$ 5,105.77
10	$ 4,191.37	$ 4,524.66	$ 4,966.67	$ 5,023.70	$ 5,172.10
11	$ 4,305.35	$ 4,645.62	$ 5,115.93	$ 5,170.24	$ 5,32234
12	$ 4,408.94	$ 4,748.89	$ 5,228.26	$ 5,288.26	$ 5,43260
13	$ 4,514.06	$ 4,850.84	$ 5,352.51	$ 5,409.22	$ 5,561.44
14	$ 4,612.30	$ 4,959.78	$ 5,463.41	$ 5,523.51	$ 5,666.99
15	$ 4,717.74	$ 5,059.66	$ 5,584.17	$ 5,643.39	$ 5,790.46
16	$ 4,717.74	$ 5,059.66	$ 5,584.17	$ 5,643.39	$ 5,790.46
17	$ 4,717.74	$ 5,059.66	$ 5,584.17	$ 5,643.39	$ 5,790.46
18	$ 4,878.23	$ 5,227.25	$ 5,762.37	$ 5,822.81	$ 5,972.75
42
APPENDIX E
PRINCIPALS BIWEEKLY SALARY INDICES
EFFECTIVE JULY 1,2000 JULY 1,2001 JULY 1,2002
The elementary, junior, and senior high school principals salary schedules are indexed from the teacher annual schedule, M.A. +45, step 15.
The specialty principal salary schedule is indexed from the teacher semimonthly NLA.+45, step 15.
	ELEM. PRIN.	JRJMDL. PRIN.	SR. HL PRIN.	SPLTY. PRIN.
STEP	SALGRDS.	SAL.GRDS.	SAL.GRDS.	SAL. GRDS.
	636-648	654-666	672-688	690..
0	1.073	1.094	1379	0.9186
1	1.102	1.131	1320	0.9425
2	1.131	1.169	1360	0.9668
3	1.160	1307	1.401	0.9907
4	1.189	1344	1.442	1.0151
5	1318	1382	1.483	1.0394
6	1347	1319	1323	1.0633
7	1376	1357	1364	1.0872
8	1305	1395	1.605	1.1106
9	1334	1.433	1.646	
MEMBERSHIP
MEMBERSHIP 1-499, MAXIMUM STEP 6.
MEMBERSHIP 500-999, MAXIMUM STEP 7.
MEMBERSHIP 1000-1399, MAXIMUM STEP 8.
MEMBERSHIP 1400+, MAXIMUM STEP 9.
SPECIALTY PRINCIPALS
SHRINE	PYRAMID ACADEMY
AVON-LENOX	MIDDLE COLLEGE HIGH SCHOOL
FOX MEADOWS	CAREER & TECHNOLOGY CENTERS
PROGRAM MANAGER
43
APPENDIX E
	ASSISTANT PRINCIPALS BIWEEKLY SALARY INDICES
ASSISTANT PRINCIPALS INDEX FROM THE TEACHER ANNUAL SALARY SCHEDULE, MA, STEP 15
ELEMENTARY ASSISTANT PRINCIPAL, SALARY GRADE 624,2000-2002
STEP	INDEX
0	1.069
1	1.112
2	1.133	.
3	1.165
4	1.197
5	1.229
SECONDARY ASSISTANT PRINCIPALS SALARY GRADE 630,2000-2002
STEP	INDEX
0	1.086
1	1.118
2	1.150
3	1.182
4	1213
5	1245
6	1277
Secondary assistant principals include career & technology assistant and residential training center manager.
44
APPENDIX F
Agreement between the Board of Education of the Memphis City Schools, Memphis, Tennessee and the Memphis Education Association, an affiliate of the Tennessee Education Association and the National Education Association
During the terms of this agreement of which this Appendix F is a part, teachers assigned to coaching, band/choir directing, yearbook and cheerleading activities in programs approved by the Superintendent will receive compensation in accordance with the schedule below:
Senior High Schools			
2000-2001 MAJOR COACHING ASSIGNMENTS	0£	6-10	Over 10
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR			
7-12	$728	$770	$891
10-12 FOOTBALL	$620	$646	$723
HEAD COACH	$1,851	$2,173	$3,147
ASSISTANT COACH BASKETBALL	$1,111	$1,394	$2,242
HEAD COACH	$1,851	$2,173	$3,147
ASSISTANT COACH BASEBALL, SOFTBALL	$1,111	$1,394	$2,242
HEAD COACH	$1,111	$1,394	$2,242
ASSISTANT COACH TRACK	$620	$640	$723
HEAD COACH	$1,111	$1,394	$2,242
ASSISTANT COACH	$620	$640	$723
BAND DIRECTOR MINOR SPORTS/SPONSOR ASSIGNMENTS	$958	$1,090	$1,483
GOLF, TENNIS	$314	$350	$458
CHEERLEADER SPONSOR	$435	$499	$579
SWIMMING	$314	$327	$366
CHOIR DIRECTOR	$157	$325	$832
CROSS COUNTRY	$382	$401	$458
YEARBOOK SPONSOR	$157	$160	$182
DRAMA/SPEECH SPONSOR	$157	$380	$1,049
WRESTLING	$382	$812	$2,098
INDOORTRACK	$382	$393	$404
SOCCER	$382	$587	$1,206
45 VOLLEYBALL	$382	$549	$1,049
APPENDIX G
Agreement between the Board of Education of the Memphis City Schools, Memphis, Tennessee and the Memphis Education Association, an affiliate of the Tennessee Education Association and the National Education Association
During the terms of this agreement of which this Appendix G is a part, teachers assigned to coaching, band/choir directing, yearbook and cheerleading activities in programs approved by the Superintendent will receive compensation in accordance with the schedule below:
Junior High Schools
2000-2001
MAJOR COACHING ASSIGNMENTS
	0-5	6-10	Over 10
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR	$492	$512	$575’
FOOTBALL HEAD COACH ASSISTANT COACH	$1,111 $728	$1,394 $884	$2,242 $1,351
BASKETBALL HEAD COACH	$1,111	$1,394	$2,242
BASEBALL, SOFTBALL HEAD COACH ASSISTANT COACH	$620 $310	$640 $320	$723 $362
TRACK HEAD COACH	$620	$640	$723
BAND DIRECTOR	$631	$657	$739
MINOR SPORTS/SPONSOR ASSIGNMENTS			
GOLF	$241	$250	$266
CHEERLEADER SPONSOR	$366	$417	$458
YEARBOOK SPONSOR	$129	$134	$151
CHOIR DIRECTOR	$129	$134	$151
SOCCER	$300	$309	$319
TENNIS	$241	$250	$259
SWIMMING	$241	$250	$259
VOLLEYBALL	$300	$309	$319
46
APPENDIX H
Agreement between the Board of Education of the Memphis City Schools, Memphis, Tennessee and the Memphis Education Association, an affiliate of the Tennessee Education Association and the National Education Association
During the terms of this agreement of which this Appendix H is a part, teachers assigned to coaching, band/choir directing, yearbook and cheerleading activities in programs approved by the Superintendent will receive compensation in accordance with the schedule below:
Middle Schools
2000-2001
MAJOR COACHING ASSIGNMENTS
	0-5	6-10	Over 10
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR	$492	$512	$575
FOOTBALL HEAD COACH ASSISTANT COACH	$1,111 $728	$1,394 $884	$2,242 $1,351
BASKETBALL HEAD COACH	$1,111	$1,394	$2,242
BASEBALL, SOFTBALL HEAD COACH ASSISTANT COACH	$620 $310	$640 $320	$723 $362
TRACK HEAD COACH	$581	$597	$678
BAND DIRECTOR	$631	$657	$739
MINOR SPORTS/SPONSOR ASSIGNMENTS			
CHEERLEADER SPONSOR	$366	$417	$458
YEARBOOK SPONSOR	$129	$134	$151
CHOIR DIRECTOR	$129	$134	$151
SOCCER	$300	$309	$319
VOLLEYBALL	$300	$309	$319
47
Letter of Intent
School-Based Decision Making
A.	School-based decision making generally refers to how certain local policy decisions are made at the school site, taking into consideration the respective interests, roles, and responsibilities of the site administrator, the faculty, the parents/community, students, other employees, and the mission of the Memphis City Schools. The School Leadership Council exists to facilitate the improvement of student learning. The development, approval, and monitoring of the school’s improvement plan, therefore, will be a major responsibility of the Council. This would require a focus on beliefs, mission, vision, and strategic goals of the Memphis City Schools. The Council may participate in other pertinent decisions, such as the restructuring of time, space, personnel, and budget.
B.	Each school shall establish the school Leadership Council. The guidelines for the makeup of the School Leadership Council have been developed by the Board. The Board will discuss and receive the Association’s input on any changes to these guidelines. It shall be the responsibility of the Council to develop and submit to the Board bylaws that will include Council duties, election procedures, recall of Council members, length of terms, amendments to the bylaws, meetings, etc. An Association Representative shall be a member of the Council. It shall be the responsibility of the School Leadership Council to keep the faculty and school community informed of Council actions. The faculty will approve the bylaws by a majority vote.
C.	The Board has established guidelines for the School Leadership Council. A summary of these guidelines will be distributed to the local faculty and community members. The Board will discuss and receive the Association’s input on any changes to these guidelines.
D.	The Board and the Association will jointly establish procedures to monitor and resolve problems or concerns regarding school-based decision making.
E.	The Board will provide training and support to the School Leadership Council to assist in performance of these duties.
F.	In the event that a decision is made to cease the school-based decision making model, the Board will discuss the need to cease the model with the Association.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
48
Letter of Intent
School Redesign
This letter of intent refers to all locations that are participating in approved school redesign models. This letter of intent outlines general expectations of a location participating in an approved school redesign model.
1.	The criteria for redesign models and a list of all locations that are redesign models will be identified by the Board and shared with the Association. This list shall be updated yearly or as needed.
2.	Teachers will be advised in writing of the general requirements for participation in a particular school redesign model. Teachers shall be advised of these requirements as soon as the school is first designated as a redesign model and every effort will be made to advise teachers by May 1 if practical.
3.	Principals at locations newly designated the first year to participate in a school redesign model may request a teacher be surplused with written documentation and supporting justification. Principals may exercise this option when the school is first selected to participate or if the school redesign model is changed. The determination of these surplus teachers shall not be for arbitrary or capricious reasons.
4.	Teachers who do not want to participate may request and receive a voluntary surplus and/or apply for a transfer to another location in accordance with Article XIV Transfer and Assignment when their location is designated the first year as a redesign school or if the school redesign model is changed.
The parties agree to review the provisions of redesign on an annual basis during the term of this agreement.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
49
Letter of Intent
Facilities Discussion
During the 2000 negotiations, the recognition of Association Representatives was discussed by the parties. The Board recognizes that Association Representatives can be of assistance in problemsolving and implementing reform at both the district and local school level. The parties agree to the following to recognize the Association Representatives and to assist the Association Representative in the performance of responsibilities both as a professional employee and as an Association Representative.
•	The parties agree to establish a joint committee to identify and recommend methods to better communicate with school staff.
•	The parties agree to jointly host an annual reception to honor the Association Representatives and their contribution to the district if funding is available.
•	The Board will distribute to the schools appropriate recognition material as provided by the Association.
•	The Board will encourage the establishment of assigned parking spaces for Association Representatives at each school as appropriate and feasible.
•	The Board will encourage that Association Representatives be involved in problem solving and to be utilized as a change agent in implementing school reform and the mission of the Memphis City Schools.
•	The parties will explore the possibility of joint Association Representative and Supervisor training.
•	The Board agrees to promote the Memphis Education Association’s School of the Year with available resources.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education Memphis City Schools
MemphisJSducation Association
50
Letter of Intent
Insurance
The parties agree that the following applies to the group insurance plan maintained by the Board:
1.	The Board does not anticipate any plan or coverage changes in the group insurance plan maintained by the Board unless there are adverse claims experience or expenses that would necessitate such changes. In the event such changes are necessary, the Board and the Association would jointly discuss such changes prior to implementation.
2.	The Board will implement a five dollar ($5.00), fifteen dollar ($15.00), and twenty-five dollar ($25.00) copay prescription drug card plan as a part of the group insurance plan maintained by the Board effective January 1,2001. In the event there is favorable claims experience or funding available, the Board will implement a vision care benefit plan effective January 1,2002.
3.	The Board and the Association agree to establish a joint committee to review cost containment measures and procedures of the group health insurance program. The committee will consist of five (5) persons selected by the Association and five (5) persons selected by the Board. This committee will be a standing committee.
In the event the committee recommends cost containments of a substantial nature, the committee may review the possibility of additional benefits if such benefits are financially feasible.
4.	It is also understood the Board may solicit proposals for health maintenance organization(s) to possibly replace the existing health maintenance organization(s) if such proposals result in cost savings without reduction in benefits. The Board may also review possible alternatives to the existing health maintenance organizations.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Memphis Education Association
Board of Education
Memphis City Schools
51
Letter of Intent
Salary
The Board and the ME A agree that the Teacher Salary Schedule will not go below the Shelby County Teacher salary schedule on any step during the term of this Agreement.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Mem
this Education Association
Board of Education
Memphis City Schools

52
Letter of Intent
Mental Health Division Guidelines
The Board and the MEA agree to follow the published Mental Health Guidelines for promotions, transfers, reassignments, seniority, layoff and recall.
The Parties agree to form a joint committee of no more than four (4) persons selected by the Association and no more than four (4) persons selected by the Board to review and update these guidelines.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
Memphis City Schools
Memphis Education Association

53
Letter of Intent
Principals’ and Assistant Principals’ Salaries
This is to document the Board’s intent in following the published salary guidelines in the salary administration of Principals and Assistant Principals unless otherwise modified by the Agreement.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
Me his Education Association
54
Letter of Intent
Substitutes: Librarians, Art, Music, and P. E. Teachers
The issues of providing substitutes for librarians, art, P.E. and music teachers and increasing planning time for elementary teachers were discussed during the 1994,1997, and 2000 negotiations.
As a result, the Board will continue to make every attempt to provide substitutes beginning on the first day of absence for elementary librarians, elementary art, elementary music, or elementary P.E. teachers in order to assist in providing planning time for elementary teachers.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
55
Letter of Intent
Posting Vacancies
Teaching vacancies will be posted on the bulletin board and on the Board’s cable television station. The Board will post teaching vacancies on the Board’s web site.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
Memphis City Schools
Mempins Education Association
56
Letter of Intent
Vacation and Holidays
This is to document that vacation accrual and holidays for principals, assistant principals, instructional supervisors, and mental health/support professionals were discussed between the Board and the Memphis Education Association during die 1997 and 2000 negotiations.
Principals and assistant principals who are required to attend the Tennessee Academy of School Leaders will not be requested to take vacation to attend such meetings during the normal work year not to exceed ten (10) work days over five (5) years.
The Board agrees that mental health/support professionals will accrue and carry over vacation in accordance with the Board vacation policy.
The Board will recommend that the administrative vacation policy be modified to allow payment of up to thirty-five (35) vacation days on retirement.
The Parties recognize that the Board has the authority to change or modify such schedules and policies. However, the Board has no plans to make such changes during the term of the Agreement.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
57
Letter of Intent
Training
The Board and ME A agree to establish a joint committee that will review the economic implication of methods of compensation for teachers who are required to attend training that is beyond the normal school year of 200 days. The committee will make recommendations based on their findings.
The joint committee will consist of three (3) persons selected by the Board and three (3) persons selected by the Association.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
58
Letter of Intent
Early Retirement Incentive
The Board agrees to establish a joint committee to review the possibility and the economic feasibility of offering an early retirement incentive for professional employees. The joint committee will consist of three (3) persons selected by the Association and three (3) persons selected by the Board.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
Memphis City Schools
Memphis Education Association
59
Letter of Intent
Technology
The parties agree to establish a joint committee to discuss the impact of technology on the school district and methods to reduce paperwork through the utilization of technology.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
60
Letter of Intent
Direct Deposit
The parties agree to study the feasibility of requiring all professional employees to have their paychecks direct deposited.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
Memphis Education Association
Memphis City Schools
61
Letter of Intent
Transfer and Assignment
This is to document the Parties’ discussion and intent regarding transfer and assignment of teachers.
1.	To the extent feasible, teachers will be advised of surplusing by April 1.
2.	The Board will determine the legal feasibility of indicating if race may be included as a factor to be placed on the posting of teacher vacancies.
3.	Only the three (3) most senior teachers who apply for a voluntary transfer and who meet the posting qualifications will be forwarded to the principal for an interview. If there are multiple vacancies at a location with the same general certification and posting criteria, the three (3) most senior teachers who meet the posting qualifications will be forwarded to the principal for an interview plus the next senior teacher who meets the qualifications for each additional vacancy. For example, if there were two (2) vacancies, four (4) teachers would be forwarded for an interview; for three (3) vacancies, five (5) teachers would be forwarded for an interview.
4.	The Board agrees to work cooperatively with the Association in the event there is a justification to transfer a teacher during or between the normal school year.
5.	In the event there is a change in the Principal assignment at a location, a teacher may request a voluntary transfer as an exception to the three (3) year limitation provided for in Article XIV, Section B.4. Such an exception must be placed in writing and submitted to the Division of Personnel Services along with the transfer request.
6.	Teacher surplusing at level K-6 will be based on seniority unless the least senior teacher(s) are the only teacher(s) that meet the certification requirements. In that event, the least senior teacher who does not meet the certification requirements will be surplused.
These provisions as outlined in this letter of intent and as outlined in Article XIV Transfer and Assignment, Section B, shall sunset at the end of this agreement unless mutually extended by the Parties.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
Memphis City Schools

62
Letter of Intent
Probationary Teachers
The Parties agree to meet and discuss methods to assist probationary teachers in the performance of their professional duties.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education Memphis City Schools
Memphis Education Association
63
Letter of Intent
Supplements
The Board and the Memphis Education Association agree to establish a committee to discuss supplements and recommend the compensation for teachers receiving supplements for the 2001-2002 and the 2002-2003 school years.
The committee will seek a broad range of input regarding the supplement issue(s) and compensation.
The committee will consist of five (5) persons selected by the Board and five (5) persons selected by the Memphis Education Association.
Effective July 1,2000 supplements shall be paid in a lump sum amount based on a schedule developed by the Board and shared with the Association. This method of payment will be discussed with the joint committee on supplements.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
Memphis City Schools
Memphis Education Association
64
Letter of Intent
Teacher Assistants
The Board and the Memphis Education Association agree to establish a joint committee to review the issue(s) of Teacher Assistants.
The joint committee will consist of three (3) persons selected by the Board and three (3) persons selected by the Memphis Education Association.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education
Memphis City Schools
Memphis Education Association
65
Letter of Intent
School Day
The Board and the Memphis Education Association agree to establish a joint committee to review the necessary responsibilities of teachers beyond the normal school day.
The joint committee will consist of three (3) persons selected by the Board and three (3) persons selected by the Memphis Education Association.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education Memphis City Schools
Memphis Education Association

66
Letter of Intent
Substitutes
The Board and the Memphis Education Association agree to form a joint committee to discuss the issue(s) of Substitute Teachers.
The joint committee will consist of three (3) persons selected by the Board and three (3) persons selected by the Memphis Education Association.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education Memphis City Schools
Memphis Education Association
67
Letter of Intent
Principal Work Year
Elementary, Junior/Middle School, and Specialty principals shall have their work year extended by two weeks effective July 1,2001 and extended an additional two weeks effective July 1,2002.
Agreed to this 22nd day of August 2000
Board of Education Memphis City Schools
Memphis Education Association
68