Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Clay County School Board and Clay County Education Association, Florida Education Association (FEA), National Education Association (NEA), (2003)
K#: 830724
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.comell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
^o7 W
SCHOOL DISTRICT OF CLAY COUNTY
2003-2006
MASTER CONTRACT
WITH
CLAY COUNTY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
PREAMBLE	..................................................1
ARTICLE I	RECOGNITION........................................2
ARTICLE H	NEGOTIATION PROCEDURES ...........................3
ARTICLE TH	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...............................4
ARTICLE IV	ASSOCIATION AND TEACHER RIGHTS.....................7
ARTICLE V	MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES .........10
ARTICLE VI	PROFESSIONAL DAY...................................11
ARTICLE VH	PREPARATION TIME .................................12
ARTICLE VUI	PROFESSIONAL DUTIES ..............................13
ARTICLE IX	TEACHER FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS........14
ARTICLE X	TEACHER’S AUTHORITY AND PROTECTION.................15
ARTICLE XI	GENERAL EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES.......................16
ARTICLE XII	POSTING VACANCIES AND VOLUNTARY TRANSFERS..........17
ARTICLE XIH	REDUCTION IN FORCE: INVOLUNTARY TRANSFERS..........19
ARTICLE XIV	PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS AND ASSIGNMENTS........21
ARTICLE XV	JOB SHARING........................................22
ARTICLE XVI	LEAVES ...........................................23
ARTICLE XVn CLASS SIZE...................;........................30
ARTICLE XVin	TEACHER EVALUATION................................31
ARTICLE XIX	TEACHER DISCIPLINE.................................33
ARTICLE XX	INSERVICE..........................................34
ARTICLE XXI	SCHOOL CALENDAR....................................35
ARTICLE XXH	INSURANCE..........................................36
ARTICLE XXH!	SICK LEAVE BANK....................................37
ARTICLE XXIV	EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS FOR ELEVEN AND TWELVE
MONTH INSTRUCTIONAL EMPLOYEES .....................39
ARTICLE XXV	MISCELLANEOUS......................................41
ARTICLE XXVI	CONTRACT MONITORING ...............................42
ARTICLE XXVH	CONTRACT COMMITTEES ...............................43
ARTICLE XXVm	COMPENSATION.......................................44
ARTICLE XXIX	TERM OF AGREEMENT..................................48
APPENDIX I	PAYROLL DEDUCTION FORM.............................49
APPENDIX n	OFFICIAL GRIEVANCE FORM ...........................50
APPENDIX IHA	APPLICATION TO TRANSFER............................51
APPENDIX IHB	RECALL PROCEDURES .................................53
APPENDIX mC	POSTING PROCEDURES FOR SUPPLEMENTAL POSITIONS......54
APPENDIX miD	SACS STANDARDS.....................................55
APPENDIX HIE	SHORT TERM MILITARY LEAVE APPLICATION..............56
APPENDIX IVA	SALARIES.......................................... 57
APPENDIX IVB	SALARIES - SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGISTS................... 58
APPENDIX IVC	SALARIES - DEGREE DIFFERENTIALS....................59
APPENDIX IVD	SALARIES - MISCELLANEOUS...........................60
APPENDIX IVE	SALARIES - ROTC INSTRUCTORS........................63
APPENDIX IVF	SALARIES - ATHLETIC DIRECTORS......................64
APPENDIX V	SALARIES - SUPPLEMENTS ............................66
APPENDIX VI	MENTORING BONUS GUIDELINES.........................71
MENTORING PROPOSAL FORM............................74
MENTORING LOG FORM.................................75
APPENDIX VH POSTING PROCEDURES FOR OPENING A NEW SCHOOL ..........76
SIGNATURE SHEET ..................................................77
PREAMBLE
1
This Agreement is entered into this 28th day of July, by and between	2
the School Board of Clay County, Florida, hereinafter called the "Board", and the Clay County	3
Education Association, an affiliate of the Florida Education Association and the National Education	4
Association, hereinafter called the "Association".	5
WITNESSETH	6
WHEREAS, the Board and Association have agreed to negotiate in good faith with respect to salaries,	7
hours and all other terms and conditions of employment and, now, having reached an agreement on	8
all such matters, desire to enter into this contract embodying such agreements, and in consideration	9
of the following and mutual covenants, it is hereby agreed as follows:	10
2003-2006 Master Contract	11
Page 1
ARTICLE I	1
RECOGNITION	2
A.	The Association recognizes the Board as the duly elected representative of the public and agrees	3
to negotiate only with the Board, through its chief executive officer or his/her designee.	4
B.	The Board hereby recognizes the Association as the exclusive bargaining representative for the 5 following unit of employees in the certification instrument (Case No. 8H-RA-754-1011:	6
Certification No. 32) as amended Case No. MS-78-010 issued by the Florida Public Relations	7
Commission on the 17th day of April, 1975 and amended on the 27th day of May, 1980.	8
2003-2006 Master Contract	9
Page 2
ARTICLE n NEGOTIATION PROCEDURES
1 2
A.	Matters not specifically covered by this Agreement but of common concern to the parties shall be	3
subject to professional negotiations between them from time to time during die period of the	4
Agreement upon request by either party to the other. The parties agree to cooperate in arranging	5
meetings, selecting representatives for such discussions, furnishing necessary information and 6 otherwise constructively considering and resolving any such matters. Further, each party will 7 submit to the other, at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the meeting, an agenda covering what	8
they wish to discuss. Should such a meeting result in a mutually acceptable amendment to this 9 Agreement, then the amendment shall be subject to ratification by the Board and the Association.	10
B.	When deemed necessary by the parties, release time will be provided the negotiating committee	11
of the Association to meet during regular school hours for the purpose of reaching an agreement	12
as rapidly as possible. Otherwise, all such negotiations shall be conducted after regular school 13 hours.	14
C.	In any negotiations described in the Agreement, neither party shall have any control over the	15
selection of the negotiating representatives of the other party. It is recognized that no final	16
agreement between the parties may be executed -without ratification by a majority of the Board and	17
by a majority of the membership of the Association, but the parties mutually pledge that their 18 representatives shall be clothed with all necessary power and authority to make proposals, counter	19
proposals and make concessions in the course of negotiations. Throughout negotiations, all 20 tentative agreements shall be signed by representatives designated by each party; there will be four	21
(4) signed copies of any final agreement. Two (2) copies shall be retained by the Board and two 22 A (2) by the Association.	23
/ D. During the course of any negotiations described in this Article, the parties mutually pledge that 24 such negotiations shall be conducted in good faith.	25
E.	Any cost incurred through the cost of a mediator and/or Special Master will be shared equally by	26
the Board and Association.	27
F.	Should any provision of this Agreement be declared illegal by a court of competent jurisdiction,	28
said provision shall become null and void, and shall in no way affect the validity of any other	29
provisions of this Agreement	30
2003-2006 Master Contract	31
Page 3
ARTICLE HI	1
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	2
A.	Definitions	3
1.	Teacher-The term "teacher" as used in this Article shall mean teacher, group of teachers, employee,	4
or group of employees recognized in the bargaining unit as defined in Article I.
2.	Work Days - The term "days" as used herein shall mean teacher work days as set forth in the official	6
school calendar as adopted by the Board.	7
3.	Grievance	8
a.	Any claim by a teacher, or group of teachers that there has been a violation, misinterpretation, or 9 misapplication of the Agreement to which aggrieved teacher(s) is a party, may be processed as a	10
grievance as hereinafter provided.	11
b.	Any claim by a teacher, or group of teachers that there has been a violation, misinterpretation, or	12
misapplication of any rule, order, or regulation of the Board which affects only the wages, hours,	13
and terms and conditions of employment of the teacher(s) to which the aggrieved teacher(s) is a 14 party, may also be processed as a grievance as hereinafter provided.	15
c.	Board regulations, rules, or orders not meeting the above criteria will not be grievable.	16
d.	If such a claim would affect a department(s) within a school, then such claim shall be filed as a 17 "class" grievance.	18
4.	Superintendent - The "Superintendent" as used in the Agreement shall mean "superintendent or 19 designee."	20
B.	Whenever a teacher, class as herein defined, or the Association feel that there is a grievance, the	21
immediate supervisor having authority to correct the alleged violation shall be conferred with on an	22
informal basis no later than ten (10) working days from the occurrence of the event or events giving rise	23
to the grievance in an effort to arrive at a mutually satisfactory solution to the grievance. In the case of 24 an aggrieved employee whose employment has been terminated through resignation, dismissal or non- 25 renewal, such informal conference must take place within the time period specified herein but no later than	26
five (5) work days from the date of termination. When a solution is not mutually determined, the more 27 formal procedure may be initiated in order to resolve the grievance. Grievances shall be conducted in 2° private to the extent permitted by law. The aggrieved teacher shall have the right to request the presence	:	■
of the Association representative at any step properly initiated in the process by the aggrieved. Nothing	30
in this agreement shall be construed to prevent any teacher from presenting at any properly initiated step	31
his/her grievances in person or by legal counsel.	32
C.	Class Grievance	33
1.	If the particular grievance is a "class" grievance affecting teachers in one school site, a grievance 34 committee made up of the aggrieved teachers with an Association representative and the school	35
administration shall be formed to discuss the problem informally. If this does not result in a	36
satisfactory resolution, the formal grievance procedure shall be initiated at Level I with all aggrieved	37
teachers in the class signing the grievance. The same time limitations and other requirements as set 38 forth for the institution of grievances at Level I shall apply.	39
2.	If the particular grievance is a "class" grievance affecting teachers in more than one site, the grievance	40
shall be processed directly to Level II and shall be subject to the same time limitations and other	41
requirements as set forth for the institution of grievances at Level I. Such grievance must be 42 presented no longer than ten (10) work days following the informal hearing.	43
D.	Written grievances as required herein shall contain the following:	44
1.	Shall be signed by the grievant or grievants;	45
2.	Shall be specific and related to the alleged violation;	46
3.	Shall contain a synopsis of the facts giving rise to the alleged violation;	47
4.	Shall cite the section or subsections alleged to have been violated; '	-	48
5.	Shall contain the date of the alleged violation;	49
6.	Shall specify the relief requested;	50
Page 4
Any written grievance not in accordance with the above requirements may not be acted upon until 1 submitted in proper form.	2
E.	All documents, communications and records dealing with the processing of a grievance will be considered	3
confidential to the extent permitted by law, and will be filed separately from the personnel files of the	4
aggrieved teacher.	5
Level I	6
The teacher shall submit in writing to the principal or immediate supervisor a copy of the grievance	7
presented on the form set forth in Appendix n. Such grievance must be presented within a reasonable	8
time, but in no event longer than ten (10) work days following the informal hearing. The principal or	9
immediate supervisor shall have five (5) work days upon receipt of the grievance to meet with the teacher	10
in an effort to resolve the grievance. The principal or immediate supervisor shall indicate his/her	11
disposition of the grievance in writing within three (3) work days after said meeting, and shall furnish	12
copies thereof to the teacher, to the Association and Superintendent.	13
Level II	14
If the grievance is not resolved at Level L the aggrieved teacher may file an appeal to the Superintendent	15
or his/her designee within ten (10) work days after he/she has received the disposition of Level I. The	16
written appeal shall be attached to the grievance form. After receipt of appeal, the Superintendent or	17
his/her designee shall meet and confer with the aggrieved teacher with a view to arriving at a mutually	18
satisfactory resolution of the grievance. At the conference(s), the teacher, his/her representative, and the	19
representative of the Association, if different from the teacher’s representative, must be present. Absence	20
of the Association representative will not prevent the conference(s) from being held if the Association has	21
been given forty-eight hours prior notice. Notice of the conference shall be given also to the principal or	22
immediate supervisor who rendered the decision at Level I. The principal or immediate supervisor may 23 be present at the conference(s) to state his/her views. Within fifteen (15) work days after receipt of appeal,	24
die following shall occur:	25
1.	A conference shall be scheduled and held.	26
2.	The Superintendent or his/her designee shall communicate his/her decision in writing together with	27
the supporting reasons to the aggrieved teacher and the Association. The principal or immediate	28
supervisor who rendered the decision at Level I shall also receive a copy of the decision at the same	29
time. Nothing herein shall prevent the grievant from petitioning the School Board for a hearing at a	30
special session or for the Board to initiate a hearing on the grievance.	31
Level in	32
If the Association is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance by the Superintendent, or if no	33
disposition has been made by the Superintendent within the period provided, the Association may file	34
within ten (10) work days, a written notice with the Superintendent or his/her designee that arbitration 35 before an impartial arbitrator is being requested. A request by the Association shall be filed with the 36 American Arbitration Association or Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service within five (5) work days	3 7
after this notice has been filed with the Superintendent. The rules of the AAA or FMCS will govern the	38
arbitration proceedings. The Board and the Association shall not be permitted to assert, in such arbitration	39
proceedings, any ground or any evidence not previously disclosed to the other party unless mutually agreed	40
upon. Both parties agree that the award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding.	41
F. General Provisions	,	<	42
1.	Any grievance which arose prior to the effective date of this Agreement shall not be processed through	43
these procedures.	.	:	44
2.	The affected supervisor shall be warned when a discussion with a teacher is bemg considered by the	45
employee to be the informal step of this process; ,	.	46
3.	A grievance may be withdrawn at any level, but that same grievance may not be filed a second time.	47
4.	The filing of a grievance shall in no way interfere with the right of the Board to proceed to carry out	48
Page 5
its management responsibilities, subject to the final decision of the grievance.	1
5.	The losing party shall pay all fees and expenses of the arbitration step in this procedure.	2 f
6.	The time limits provided in this Article shall be strictly observed, but may be extended by written	3
agreement of the parties. In the event a grievance is filed after May 15 of any year, and strict	4
adherence to the time limits may result in hardship to any party, the administration shall use its best	5
efforts to process such grievance prior to the end of the school term or as soon thereafter as possible.	t
Whenever illness or other incapacity of any necessary party prevents his/her presence at a grievance	7
meeting, the time limits shall be extended to such time that the party can be present.	8
7.	Any teacher involved in any manner in any grievance procedures shall not be subjected to any 9 prejudicial treatment because of such participation.	10
8.	It is the mutual intent of the Board and die Association to resolve all grievances at the earliest possible	11
level of the grievance procedure.	12
9.	Arbitration proceedings are to be conducted outside regular working hours unless die Board consents	13
in writing to the contrary. When grievance meetings and arbitration proceedings are held during	14
school hours, all employees whose presence is required shall be excused, with pay, from their normal	15
duties.	16
10.	a. Anypartywhohasfiledforarbitrationproceedingsbutwhosubsequentlywithdrawssuchrequest	17
shall pay all fees assessed by the arbitration agency and/or arbitrator. However, if the respondent	18
and charging party mutually agree in writing to a modification in a Level II determination prior	19
to the arbitration hearing and such modification results in an immediate request by the charging 20 party for withdrawal of arbitration, then the fees assessed by the arbitration agency and/or the 21 arbitrator shall be shared.	22
b. The arbitrator shall not have the powder or authority to make any decision contrary to law or 23 beyond his/her jurisdiction. The arbitrator shall limit his/her decision to the terms of this	24
Agreement; and shall not add to, subtract from, modify, or alter the terms of this Agreement or	25
School Board Policy.	26
11.	Any grievance initiated through the procedure outlined herein may not be filed a second time. 27 12. Reasonable accommodation will be made for handicapped School Board employees involved in the 28 grievance process.	2°
2003-2006 Master Contract	30
31
Page 6
A	1
ARTICLE IV	2
ASSOCIATION AND TEACHER RIGHTS	3
A.	The Board hereby agrees that every teacher shall have the right to organize, join and support the	4
Association for the purpose of engaging in negotiations and other concerted activities. Further, the	5
Board will not discourage, deprive or coerce any teacher in the enjoyment of any rights conferred by this	6
Agreement; that it will not discriminate against any teacher with respect to wages, hours, or any terms	7
or conditions of employment by reason of membership in the Association, participation in any lawful 8 activities of the Association, or collective professional negotiations with the Board, or institution of any	9
grievance, complaint or proceeding under this Agreement	10
B.	When the Association desires to use a school facility for a meeting involving members who may not be	11
located at die affected school, it will submit a written request to the principal at least one (1) week in	12
advance, if possible, to secure permission. If such meeting involves Association members from the	13
affected school only, then a written request to the principal shall be submitted in advance to secure	14
permission. If any special equipment is needed, it must also be included in this request. The Association 15 shall reimburse the Board for those use costs that exceed routine custodial and operating expenses of 16 such school building and equipment.	17
C.	With the approval of the principal, the Association and its representatives shall have the right to use 18 school equipment at reasonable times, when such equipment is not otherwise in use. The Association 19 shall pay for the cost of all materials and supplies incident to such use.	20
D.	Each school principal will designate a space or bulletin board in his/her school in a place which is	21
accessible to the teachers for the Association to post notices of Association activities. The Association	22
is authorized to use the school system teacher mailboxes for communications to teachers.	23
Communications posted on the bulletin board or placed in the mailboxes shall not be slanderous or	24
political campaign material. The Association shall assume the responsibility for placing such	25
__4 communications in the mailboxes. A copy of materials to be placed in the mailboxes shall be submitted	26 to the principal and Personnel Division prior to distribution. All correspondence must include	27
Association name.	28
E.	Duly authorized representatives of the Association, with the approval of the school principal, may be	29
permitted to transact official Association business with teachers on school property as follows:	30
1.	During the teacher's lunch period.	31
2.	Before and after the teacher's scheduled day.	32
3.	Visitation as outlined in (1.) and (2.) above must not interfere with or disrupt normal school 33 operations.	34
4.	When an Association representative desires to visit a school, he/she must make prior scheduling 35 arrangements in advance of the visit with the school principal.	36
5.	The Association Faculty Representative will be given an opportunity at the end of each school 37 faculty meeting to make announcements of time, place, and topics of future meetings.	38
F.	The Board agrees to give the Association reasonable access to all public records within its jurisdiction.	39
The Board will make available to the Association a copy of the Discussion and Consent Agendas of	40
regularly scheduled Board meetings, including backup material made available to the school board annex	41
office, and will make every attempt to make available the Personnel Agenda and budget amendments, 42 if these are not part of the regular backup. The Board will be supplied with copies of communications	43
delivered to all teachers through school mail with the exception of information regarding membership.	44
G.	The ieachers shall be entitled to full rights of citizenship and no religious or political activities of any	45
teacher or the lack thereof shall be grounds for any discipline or discrimination with respect to the	46
professional employment of such teacher. Religious and political activities of individual teachers will 47 not be carried on during the school day.	48
H.	1. Any teacher who is a member of the Association or who has applied for membership may sign and	49
deliver to the Association authorization to deduct membership dues in the Association. Such signed	50
Page 7
authorization shall be processed by the Association and delivered by the Association with an	1
accompanying list to the Payroll Office by no later than ten (10) work days prior to the effected pay	2 >
date. Such list and authorizations shall stipulate the name, social security number, date and amount	3
to	be deducted each pay date for the balance of pay periods in the school year. Pursuant to such	4
submission, the Board shall deduct from the teacher's salary check such monies in equal payments beginning the first pay date after proper submission.	t,
2.	Such authorization and dues deduction shall continue in effect unless written request by the	7
employee to revoke such authorization is delivered to the Association and the School Board not less	8
than 30 days prior to the effected pay date. The Association will submit the list and signed	9
authorization to the Payroll Office by not later than fifteen (15) days prior to the effected pay date.	10
Such list and authorizations shall stipulate the last date deductions are to be made.	11
3.	The Association shall notify the Payroll Office of any changes in the amount of dues to be deducted	12
with a list as stipulated in paragraph (1.) certified by the President by no later than August 15.	13
4.	The deductions shall be remitted not less frequently than monthly to the Association. Any list or	14
authorization not submitted in the manner specified in this provision shall be returned to the	15
Association for recalculation, new authorizations and resubmission.	16
5.	The Association shall indemnify and save and hold harmless the Board against any and all claims, 17 demands, suits and any other forms of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or	18
not taken by the Board for the purpose of reliance on any lists, notice or assignment furnished by the	19
Association as it applies to this section.	20
I.	Upon appropriate authorization from the teacher, the Board shall deduct from the salary of any teacher	21
and make appropriate remittance for payroll deduction programs currently in effect. Additional 22 programs may be approved according to the following guidelines:	23
1.	Insurance companies desiring payroll deduction must present at least twenty-five (25) completed 24 applications.	25
2.	The insurance company must be rated A-or better in A.M. Best Guide to Life Insurance Companies.	26
3.	Payroll deductions should be allowed employees who transfer into Clay County School System who	27
have tax sheltered annuities on a payroll deduction plan.	28
4.	Companies who have fewer than eleven (11) participants will be notified.that they must increase	2.—
participation to the twenty-five (25) participant level. Should any such company fail to bring their	-
participation back to the twenty-five (25) participant level, the company shall be dropped from	31
payroll deduction effective the beginning of the next school year. Employees signed up for payroll	32
deduction with such companies shall be notified in writing by the payroll department prior to losing	33
the payroll deduction with that company.	34
J.	When it is necessary for the Association President and/or his/her designee(s) to engage in Association	35
activities directly relating to duties of the Association which cannot be performed other than during	36
school hours, or are the result of an emergency situation, the said representative(s) may apply for	37
Association Leave with pay as is necessary to perform any such activities. Salary costs paid by the	38
Board during approved Association Leave shall be reimbursed by the Association. Such leave must be	39
applied for in advance and approved by the principal. Approved leave of this type taken by the	40
Association shall not exceed a total of thirty (30) days per school year. Said days shall be deducted in	41
accordance with School Board policies, and shall usually be limited to five (5) representatives during	42
any school calendar day. The Association may request release for more than five (5) representatives	43
on those rare occasions when this may be necessary, by obtaining the approval of the Superintendent.	44
The Superintendent may grant IDE with pay to association representatives to participate with the	45
administration in activities which are deemed to be in the best interest of the school system.	46
K.	1. Extended Association Leave may be granted to the President of the Association for a period of up	47
to one school year, subject to annual renewal.The President shall continue receiving full pay and	48
fringe benefits (including FRS retirement) during such leave from the School Board provided the	49
Association reimburses the Board for such full pay and fringe benefits. Such leave shall be	50
requested at least sixty (60) days in advance of the affected school year. The procedures for salary	51
and fringe benefit reimbursement shall be agreed to by the Board prior to leave approval.	52
2.	Extended Association Leave without pay may be granted to an officer of the Association or to an
Page 8
I
employee who is a member of the bargaining unit under the following conditions:	1
a.	Such employee shall have been designated as an "intern trainee" by the state affiliate or shall be	2
an officer of the state or national affiliate.	3
b.	Such leave shall be effective for the balance of the school year during which the respective term	4
of office or training period will run.	5
c.	Documentation shall be provided substantiating the member’s status and the request of the 6 appropriate affiliate at least sixty (60) days in advance of the affected school year.	7
3.	At the beginning of the next school year, such employee shall return from such leave in the same	8
manner as other employees returning from Extended Personal Leave. However, in the case of a	9
President returning from Extended Association Leave, the President shall be reassigned to a similar	10
position in the District, and whenever possible, to the previously held position.	11
4.	In the event that the CCEA President is a National Board Certified teacher and in the event that the	12
State of Florida determines that National Board monies are to be withheld due to the release	13
responsibilities of the CCEA presidency, the Board agrees to pay 60% of the monies including	14
benefits that would have been paid by the State inclusive of mentoring hours and the Association	15
shall pay 40% of the monies.	16
17
2003-2006 Master Contract	18
19
Page 9
i
ARTICLE V MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1
2
A.	The Board expressly reserves without limitation all statutory rights, powers and authority 3 conferred upon it and vested in it, including but not limited to inherent and common law management rights, those rights conferred in the Constitution of the State of Florida, Florida	5
Statues, regulations of the State Board of Education and by federal laws and regulations.	6
B.	It is the right of the public employer to determine unilaterally the purpose of each of its 7 constituent agencies, set standards of services to be offered to the public, and exercise control	8
and discretion over its organization and operations. It is also the right of the public employer	9
to direct its employees, take disciplinary action for proper cause, and relieve its employees from	10
duty because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons. However, the exercise of such	11
rights shall not preclude employees or their representatives from raising grievances should	12
decisions - on the above matters have the practical consequence of violating the terms and 13 conditions of any collective bargaining agreement in force.	14
2003-2006 Master Contract 15
Page 10
ARTICLE VI	1
'	PROFESSIONAL DAY	2
A.	Teachers will be allowed a duly free lunch period of not less than twenty-five (25) minutes, or for a	3
'	period of time no less than the regular time scheduled in each school as lunch period for students,	4
■	whichever is greater. Thishmchtimewillnotincludethetimenecessaryforteacherstoaccompanytheir	5
classes to the cafeteria if so required.	6
B.	1. Schedule	7
The teachers' standard scheduled day will be seven (7) hours and fifty (50) minutes per day and the	8
five (5) day standard scheduled week will be thirty-nine (39)	hours and ten (10)	minutes.	On	9
planning days, the teachers' standard scheduled day will be eight (8) hours including one hour of	10
du	ty-free lunch. The School Board will establish opening and closing times of its schools for both	11
th	e administration and students which will become the primary schedule.	12
2.	Scheduled Day	13
The scheduled day for teachers will be determined in advance through mutual agreement between	14
the teacher and the principal. The total scheduled hours shall not be more nor less than the hours	15
specified in VI.B.1. above or as specified in section VI B.3. below.	16
3.	Scheduled Week	17
a.	A flexible scheduled week for a school faculty may be established in advance but only through	18
mutual agreement between the principal and faculty.	•	19
b.	Through mutual agreement, the principal may establish a flexible scheduled week for an 20 individual teacher when such schedule is established within the parameters set forth in section	21
B.	22
c.	A flexible scheduled week may include days with hours which vary from the standard scheduled	23
day in VLB. 1. above but shall not be more nor less than the hours in a standard scheduled week	24
established in VLB. 1. above.	25
d.	The flexible scheduled week for a faculty or for an individual teacher	may occur within any	26
_	consecutive five-day work period.	27
e.	The scheduled week for a school faculty shall be submitted to the Superintendent of Schools in	28
-	writing before such schedule may be implemented.	29
4.	Restrictions	30
a.	The scheduled day and week for a faculty or for an individual teacher may not interfere with the	31
student contact time, the fairness or consistency of the extra supervisory duties, and must ensure	32
that all professional obligations such as meetings and parent/student conferences are met. 33
b.	Teachers who are provided a supplemental salary for an extracurricular activity beyond the 34 student day must conduct such activity after the scheduled day.	35
c.	With advance notice, the principal may require the rescheduling of a teacher’s day or week to	36
the primary schedule for faculty or similar meetings.	37
d.	Any SchoolImprovementPlanthatimpactsplanningperiodsduringthe student contact day must	38
compensate the affected teacher who volunteers with money ($10/hr.) or time.	39
C.	Full faculty meetings in each school will be scheduled bi-monthly provided that such meetings shall be	40
canceled if nothing constructive is to be offered. Such meetings should be as brief and well-planned as	41
possible. Faculty meetings will be scheduled at least one day in advance. Special faculty meetings may	42
be called in an emergency. All efforts will be made to conclude faculty meetings within the seven (7)	43
hour and fifty (50) minute scheduled day.	44
2003-2006 Master Contract	45
Page 11
I
1
ARTICLE VH	2 ,
PREPARATION TIME	3
A. 1. High school, middle school, and junior high school teachers will have a preparation/conference time	4
each day equivalent to one (1) class period. This time is in addition to the twenty-five (25) minutes	♦
allotted for lunch. Teachers will be provided planning time during student contact time when	6
possible. Any such planning time provided during student contact time will be equitably assigned,	7
as will any time scheduled for duty during student contact time. Only duty involving the monitoring	8
of students for their safety will be assigned during student contact time. For the purpose of this	9
section, supervised study periods will be considered part of the instructional and supervisory load 10 and will not be considered the preparation/conference time. Supervisory loads of secondary	11
classroom teachers shall not exceed five (5) class periods in a six (6) period day, or six (6) class	12
periods in a seven (7) period day as long as there is compliance with Article XVI, Class Size.	13
2.	A T. and I. teacher may be scheduled as in paragraph 1. above or to teach two (2) three-hour blocks	14
or five (5) class periods in a six (6) period day depending on student needs. Preparation/conference	15
time may be assigned outside student contact time but during the work day.	16
B.	Elementary teachers will normally have, thirty (30) minutes of preparation time each day during student	17
contact hours. This period may be planned during the time students are in resource classes. When a	18
teacher serves more than one school per day, preparation time will be scheduled at only one of the	19
itinerant teacher’s assigned schools.	20
C.	As may be required by the Clay County Teacher Induction Program, and when deemed necessary by the	21
Support Staff and approved by the principal, the Peer Teacher shall be provided time during the student	22
contact day to perform observations and other duties related to the Teacher Induction Program which	23
cannot be performed at any other time. Every effort shall be made to select the peer teacher on a	24
voluntary basis.	25
D.	Grades from all secondary teachers will be due the morning following the end of the nine weeks	26
planning day or the end of the semester planning day. Grades for the fourth nine weeks will be due at	27
the end of the day on the day before the post planning day. Final Senior grades may be due in advance	?n
of other final grades to verify graduation eligibility.
E.	Grades from all elementary teachers shall be completed by the morning following the end of the nine	30
weeks planning day with the exception of the final nine weeks. The final grades may be due four days	31
before the end of school so that report cards can be sent home on the last day of school for students.	32
2003-2006 Master Contract	33
Page 12
1
ARTICLE Vm	2
PROFESSIONAL DUTIES	3
A.	The administration will avoid inequitable assignments of supervisory duties, such as bus loading and 4 unloading.	5
B.	Teachers shall attend up to three (3) functions during the year when advance notice has been given by 6 tire principal or supervisor. Attendance at additional non-paid functions shall be voluntary.	7
C.	Observations of a class by persons other than school administrative/supervisory personnel shall be	8
arranged with the school principal. The principal will consult with the teacher involved and notify	9
him/her of the reason and the time of the observation before granting such permission. This section shall	10
not apply in the case of teacher evaluation.	11
D.	Whenever possible, classrooms in which classes are being held shall be free of unnecessary interruptions	12
by intercommunication systems, maintenance, custodian or construction workers or other disturbances.	13
E.	When possible, teachers will be given advance notice equal to five (5) workdays of classroom 14 cancellations due to changes in activity schedules and assemblies.	15
16
2003-2006 Master Contract Y1
Page 13
I
f
ARTICLE IX	1
TEACHER FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS	2
A.	A space in the media center will be designated to shelve teacher professional materials. Teacher	3
input will be sought annually to update these materials.	4
B.	The Board agrees to have supplies, texts, teacher editions, and classroom keys available on the first	5
day of school or as soon thereafter as possible.	6
C.	The Board agrees to ensure, that computers, duplicating, and copying equipment are available to aid	7
teachers in the preparation of instructional materials.	8
D.	The Board agrees to provide every teacher a chalkboard or dry erase board, a desk, a lockable	9
storage space, and, teacher editions of all texts used in each course he/she is teaching.	10
E.	The Board will provide in each school, restroom and lavatory facilities exclusively for the use of	11
staff, and, at least one room, appropriately furnished shall be reserved as a faculty lounge/workplace.	12
F.	Parking facilities shall be provided for faculty use at each school.	13
G.	When school is not in session, teachers may be given access to the school by arranging such access	14
with the principal, providing such access relates to the performance of teaching duties or school 15 activities.	16
H.	Telephone facilities, toll free to the School Board, will be made available to the teachers, as long as	17
official school business is not obstructed.	18
I.	Custodial services shall be provided by the Board.	19
J.	An adult desk chair, a telephone, internet access and a significant teacher computer work station^	20
including a printer, shall be provided for each teacher as soon as possible. The CCEA will be 21 furnished an update on this project annually until it is completed.	22
K.	"Floating" teachers will be provided a desk and locked storage space and access to a computer	23
workstation and telephone.	24
L.	The Board will provide the CCEA with a copy of the Annual and Long-Range (Five-Year) Capital	25
Projects Plan.	•	2^'
2003-2006Master Contract	27
Page 14

ARTICLE X	1
TEACHER’S AUTHORITY AND PROTECTION	2
)
A.	The Board recognizes its responsibility to give support and assistance to teachers with respect to the	3
maintenance of control and discipline as is consistent with the Code of Student Conduct. This	4
includes taking reasonable steps to ensure that teachers and students are not at undue risk of violence	5
or harm.	6
B.	The administration will provide a set of procedures (Code of Student Conduct) for handling 7 discipline problems. Within the first month of school, the building principal or designee will meet	8
with faculty to review student discipline procedures and implementation of the Code of Student	9
Conduct School-based discipline plans or procedures to implement the Student Code of Conduct	10
shall be collaboratively developed with involvement of the entire faculty. Existing plans will be	11
updated annually through collaboration.	'	12
C.	Ateachermayimposecustomaiyclassroomdisciplinewherenecessaryincasesofminorinfiactions 13 and may use such force as is necessary to protect himself/herself from attack or to prevent injury to	14
another student	15
D.	The teacher involved in a student disciplinary case shall be questioned only in the presence of parties	16
involved in the case or involved in the investigation of the case. Dignity and respect for teachers will	17
be maintained whenever involved in a student disciplinary case.	18
E.	A teacher may send or escort a student to the office of the principal or designated school 19 administrator, or send for assistance when the grossness of the offense, or persistence of the 20 misbehaviormakesthecontinuedpresenceofthestudentintheclassroomintolerable. In such cases, 21 the teacher shall promptly furnish the principal or his/her designee with full particulars on the	22
problem or incident in writing. Once the teacher has been relieved of the responsibility of the	23
student, it shall be the principal's or designee's responsibility to take action. Teachers will be 24 notified within 5 working days of disposition of a student disciplinary referral.	25
7 F. In the event that a teacher is a victim of physical abuse or threat thereof with use of a weapon or	26
instrument capable of inflicting injury, such circumstance shall be promptly reported in writing to 27 the principal or designated representative. Under such circumstances, the administration will 28 provide assistance to the teacher to deal with outside agencies and shall enforce the Code of Student   29 Conduct with respect to notification, suspension, or expulsion requirements. The Clay County	30
Education Association will be notified of the time and place of the assault hearing at least two (2)	31
working days in advance of the hearing.	32
G.	A teacher will be encouraged to begin, without penalty, implementation of the review procedure for	33
instructional and ancillary material set forth in Board policy whenever such material is the subject 34 of a complaint or is removed from instructional or library use.	35
2003-2006 Master Contract	36
Page 15
•1
ARTICLE XI	1 /
GENERAL EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES	2
A.	Discrimination on the basis of age, gender, handicaps, race, color, religion, national origin, or marital	3
status is prohibited in the employment of personnel.	4
B.	Anyteacheremployedwillbefullycertifiedandshallbeassigned only to aposition within thescope	5
of his/her teaching certificate. When such fully certified teachers cannot be obtained, a teacher who	6
is fully certified may be assigned to a position outside the scope of his/her certificate, or a qualified	7
substitute may be employed only until such time as a fully certified teacher can be employed.	8
C.	A teacher who volunteers to transfer out-of-field to a critical shortage ESE position such as, EH, 9 SED, VE, PMH, TMH, or EMH, or other critical shortage area designated by the Superintendent, 10 will have the opportunity to return to his/her previous position at the end of one year, provided the 11 teacher has fulfilled die six hour requirement for out-of-field teachers. Teachers who volunteer to	12
teach out-of-field in areas designated by the Superintendent as critical shortage areas and not eligible	13
for State financial assistance shall be reimbursed by die Board for the required 6 hours of college	14
coursework. Such reimbursement shall be at the Florida university system’s tuition rate.	15
D.	Substitute teachers will be employed for all classroom teachers absent from regular classroom duties,	16
including EH, SLD, and VE, and for all elementary resource teachers. Exceptions may be made in	17
programs considered to be "pull out" such as Chapter I, Compensatory Education, and other	18
Exceptional Student Education programs, hi an emergency when a substitute cannot be secured, and	19
all other resources have been exhausted, another teacher may be required to cover classes. The	20
substitute shall provide a written report to the teacher of activities covered during the day. Teachers	21
will provide written lesson plans for the substitute and upon return, will submit a written evaluation	22
of the work performed by the substitute.	23
E.	Nothing in this Article shall prohibit the Superintendent from filling any position on a temporary	24
basis or in accordance with statutes, rules, or regulations.	25
F.	Any reemployed teacher who previously held continuing contract or professional service contract	26
status in Clay County may assume a professional service contract, if recommended by the 27: Superintendent for such status.	2
2003-2006 Master Contract	29
Page 16
1
2
4
ARTICLE XU POSTING VACANCIES AND VOLUNTARY TRANSFERS
A.	Definitions	3
1.	For the purpose of this article, a transfer shall be defined as a change in grade, subject, assignment,	4
class, building or position. A form shall be required only in the case of transfer between schools 5 or programs.	6
2.	For the purpose of this article, "surplus" personnel shall be defined as those regularly contracted 7 teachers who are unassigned as the result of a reduction in staff allocations in a school, subject area	8
within a program in a school or county wide.	9
3.	For the purpose of this article, eligibility for filling vacancies in phase I is limited to voluntary 10 transfers, surplus Professional Services Contract teachers (PSC), surplus Continuous Contract	11
Teachers (CC), surplus Annual Contract teachers recommended for PSC with three (3) years of	12
continuous service in the district, and PSC/CC teachers returning from leave.	13
B.	Posting Vacancies	14
2.	Vacancies during the school year	15
a.	During the regular school year, vacancies shall be posted in every work site (cost center) for two	16
(2) weeks on the first and fifteenth of each month, beginning two (2) weeks after Ihe start of	17
school and ending April fifteenth.	18
b.	In cases that effect the smooth and continuous operation of the school, posting timelines may	19
be exempted (i.e. resignations or emergencies.)	20
2.	Vacancies for the next school year will be posted in the following phases	21
a.	PHASE I: All vacancies declared for the next school year shall be posted for a period of two 22 (2) weeks and open to transfers and in-county PSC/CC surplus, PSC/CC teachers returning from	23
leave, and AC recommended for PSC with three (3)continuous years in the district. Teachers	24
must have in-field certification to apply in this phase. Principals may opt to fill these positions	25
after one week.	26
b.	PHASE II: Provides a posting for those surplus teachers eligible in PHASE I. Transfers are not 27 eligible in this phase. This phase provides placement offerings for these personnel immediately.	28
This phase posting will be for two (2) weeks PSC/CC personnel shall be placed in a position	29
for which they are qualified. If no such positions are available, they will be placed in an out-of-	30
field position before AC personnel are placed. Placement of PHASE II teachers shall be in the	31
following order:	32
1.	In-field PSC/CC personnel	33
2.	In-field AC personnel recommended for PSC with three (3) consecutive years of service in	34
the district	.	35
3.	PSC/CC teachers returning from leave	36
c.	PHASE DI: This phase is open to in-county transfers, placement of AC surplus, and AC	37
returning from leave, and new hires. It is a two (2) week posting. However, principals may fill	3 8
immediately with AC surplus from their school and all others after one week.	39
d.	FINAL POSTING for the next school year will be July 1 for Information and phases will be no	40
longer listed.	41
e.	SPECIAL POSTINGS will be made for new/unique positions by the district staff.	42
3.	SUPPLEMENTAL VACANCIES	43
a.	Schools shall post supplemental positions annually at their school for two (2) weeks in April 44 when teachers are in school.	45
b.	Unfilled Jr JSr. High positions not unique to that school will be posted for two (2) additional	46
weeks in all the schools in the district. This posting is the responsibility of the school with the	47
vacancy.	48
c.	Secondary supplemental positions not filled by district-wide postings may be advertised outside	49
of the school system by the school with the vacancy.	50
51
d.	In cases of extreme need when an athletic supplemental position cannot be filled in steps a, b, 52
Page 17
and c above, the supplemental position may be added to a teaching position in PHASE m. 1
e.	Supplemental positions which become vacant during the regular school year (between	2 >
September 1 and April 30) will be posted in the school sites of the vacancies for two (2) weeks.	3
Positions not filled after two (2) weeks may be posted district wide and if not filled may then 4 be posted for out-of-district applicants.	5
f.	A copy of all vacancy postings for each school that is posted district-wide or out-of-district shall	6
be forwarded to the office of the association.	7
C. Voluntary Transfers	8
1.	Each teacher shall be limited to one (1) volunteer transfer in a two (2) year period except at the	9
discretion of the administration. A teacher wishing to seek a transfer to a posted vacancy for which	10
he/she is eligible and qualified shall follow the procedures stipulated on the district transfer form. 11 (See Appendix)	12
2.	Theprincipal/administratorofthecostcenterhavingthepostedvacancyshallgivedueconsideration	13
to qualified and eligible in-county applicants. Due consideration shall be defined as taking into	14
account the results of an interview, certification, experience, professional references, or other bona	15
fide occupational qualifications. If a position is filled by a transfer applicant, the decision to select	16
such applicant will be based on qualifications and length of service in the school district.	17
3.	All actions taken will follow the posting procedures as described in Article XII.B.	18
4.	For positions posted after April 1 for the next school year, transfer requests which are made before	19
the last day of the teacher’s school year, shall only require approval of the gaining	20
principal/administrator before such transfer is submitted to the Human Resources Division for final	21
consideration.	22
5.	The losing principal/administrator may request a review of any such proposed approval to the 23 Superintendent on the grounds that such approval would be detrimental to the program of the school.	24
Such grounds may include possible loss of accreditation or other such dire program concerns. The	25
grounds for the appeal and input from the gaining principal/administrator and teacher will be 26 reviewed.	27
6.	After the close of the school year and before the beginning for the next school year, approval by both	28
the losing principal/administrator shall be required before such transfer is submitted to the Human	2' 
Resources Division for final consideration.	S
7.	After filling a vacant position, the principal/administrator will notify in writing, all applicants as 31 soon as action is taken.	. . ..	_ ...32
2003-2006 Master Contract	33
34
Page 18
1
2
ARTICLE XIH REDUCTION IN FORCE: INVOLUNTARY TRANSFERS
I.	Identification of Affected Personnel	3
A.	Teachers affected shall be identified on the basis of certification, the current teaching	4
assignment, and uninterrupted length of service in the district. Teachers shall be listed in	5
accordance with their current assignment in the following order:	6
1.	Volunteers from the affected area in the school;	7
2.	Out-of-field personnel from the affected area in the school*; and	8
3.	The most recent date of hire for continuous service in the district in the affected area.	9
* Out-of-field personnel with significant progress toward certification can apply for an 10 exception.	11
B.	In the event that Professional Service Contract/Continuing Contract personnel are listed in the	12
paragraph above, the same number of annual contract personnel as the number of PSC/CC 13 personnel listed shall be bumped in order of district seniority. These annual contract personnel	14
must have the same qualifications as the identified PSC/CC personnel.	15
• C.	If a teacher was hired in a position that was posted as a subject/coach position, the individual	16
may be identified as surplus if he/she resigns from the coaching supplement. However, every 17 effort will be made to assign the teacher to another teaching position within the school rather	18
than identifying the teacher as surplus. If the principal decides not to advertise the position as	19
a teacher/coach combination, then the teacher identified as surplus from that position may be	20
returned to that position at any time before the posting of the vacancy, as long as the teacher	21
remains qualified. Thisparagraphwillbeeffectiveforthoseteacherswhoareappointedtotheir 22 first athletic coaching position after December 15, 1987.	23
D.	After school begins and a reduction in staff is necessary due to a reduction in the allocation of 24 teachers in a subject area or grade level within a school, only the teachers in the specified	25
subject or grade level will be affected by the procedures listed in paragraph A above. If	26
Professional Service Contract/Continuing Contract are identified, the provisions of paragraph	27
B above will be in effect.	28
E.	When a reduction in the allocation of teachers in a school, subject area within a program in a 29 school, or county-wide is necessary, the Association shall be presented a list of teachers in the	30
affected school showing the teachers’ rank, status, classification as described in Article I, and	31
years of experience in Clay County public schools.	32
n. Placement of Unassigned Personnel	.	33
A.	Teachers listed for involuntary transfers shall be placed in vacant positions for which they are 34 qualified on the basis of date of continuous employment in the school district as an instructional	35
personnel or an administrator. The placement of unassigned personnel shall be in the following	36
order:	37
1.	Qualified Professional Service Contract/Continuing Contract personnel;	38
2.	Qualified personnel identified in I.C. above; and	39
3.	Qualified annual contract and bumped annual contract personnel.	40
B.	PSC/CC personnel shall be placed in a position for which they are qualified, or if none is	41
available, in a position considered out-of-field before annual contract personnel are placed.	42
HI. Special Provisions in Unassigned Personnel - PSC/CC and AC recommended for PSC with three (3)	43
continuous years in Clay County.	44
A.	In the event a position has not been identified and offered to a person listed as "unassigned" by	45
the end of the sixth week of the next teacher contract year, a leave of absence without pay may	46
be applied for and when approved, granted to any and all teachers affected who continue to be 47 certified and qualified for the position in which they were previously employed.	48
Page 19
B.	Any teacher who would have been qualified for retirement during the reduction-in-force year 1 shall be permitted to teach that year in order to acquire the needed service, provided he/she	2 *
continues to be certified and qualified for the position in which he/she was previously employed.	3
C.	Ifa vacancy occurs in a bargaining unit position after the sixth week of the next teacher contract	4
year, including newly created positions, previously unassigned personnel who hold proper / certification to perform the duties of the position in question will be recalled in reverse order of	c
the layoff. Vacancy posting requirements are waived in the event of a layoff.	7
D.	No new teacher shall be hired in a new position or in an unassigned PSC, CC or going on PSC	8
teacher’s subject area or grade level until all fully qualified unassigned teachers from that	9
subject area or grade level have been recalled or have declined or failed to accept recall. No	10
unassigned annual contract teachers from the previous year shall be given a priority right over	11
current year teachers.	12
E.	Each unassigned teacher shall notify the district Human Resources Division in writing of a	13
telephone number and an address to which a letter or recall may be sent.	14
F.	If a vacancy identified in C above occurs, a letter or recall shall be mailed to the properly	15
certified and qualified unassigned teacher by certified mail, return receipt requested. Enclosed	16
with the letter of recall shall be a list of positions which are vacant Within ten (10) calendar	17
days of the date of the mailing of such letter, the teacher shall notify the Human Resources	18
Division in writing whether he/she will accept re-employment Failure to accept recall within	19
the required time limit automatically terminates the teacher’s right of recall.	20
G.	Recall rights of unassigned teachers shall terminate at the close of the regular 196 day contract	21
year of recall, provisions of this section not withstanding.	22
IV. Special Provisions - Miscellaneous	23
A.	The foregoing shall not be construed in such a way as to prohibit involuntary transfers for 24 specific reasons. The Superintendent shall not be prohibited from transferring employees when	25
the Superintendent determines it is in the best interest of the school system. Such transfers 26 require the Board’s approval.	-	27
B.	When special talents or expertise are needed for a new position(s) to implement anew 28 program(s), such new position(s) shall be posted in accordance with Article XII. If these talents	2^—
or expertise are not found in the present employees, the proposed plans should be made known	3
and present employees given an opportunity to qualify for the new position(s).	31
C.	The Association and the Board agree that the Superintendent has the authority and the 32 responsibility to make transfers, job restructuring and job assignments when he/she determines	33
that such are required under the Americans With Disabilities Act.	34
D.	In order to address minority under-representation among the teaching staff of a school or	35
program, or in order to employ qualified teachers in positions that, historically, remain unfilled	3 6
or are filled by out-of-field teachers, the procedures described previously may be waived to	37
allow the employment of qualified, in-field new hires. New hires employed under these posting	3 8
waivers must meet all requirements imposed on other new hires as part of the	39
application/employment process prior to appointment by the Board and receipt of an	40
employment contract. No other Master Contract provisions, applicable to other teachers, shall	41
be automatically waived for employees hired under these provisions.	42
2003-2006 Master Contract	43
Page 20
1
2
ARTICLE XIV PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS AND ASSIGNMENTS
? A.	The AssociationmayobtainfromtheSchoolBoardthegrade level, subjectarea, thetypeof certificate,	3
years of experience, and salary of each teacher employed in the district	4
B.	All teachers should be given notice of their schedules and assignments for the forthcoming semester	5
no later than the first day of pre-planning for the first semester and January 1 for the second semester.	6
Changes in teachers' assignments or schedules will be made only when unforeseen situations occur.	7
C.	All instructional employment in summer school shall be filled according to the following criteria:	8
1.	All teachers who apply shall apply for summer school classroom positions which are open at	9
centers affecting their school. Requests to teach summer school shall be presented to the district	10
Personnel Division.	11
2.	a. _ Only teachers under contract in the county for the year preceding or for the next year will 12
be considered for summer school employment.	13
b. No teacher receiving a poor evaluation during the regular school year will be eligible for 14 summer school employment	15
3.	Assignments to such positions in each summer school center shall be made according to the 16 following ranked criteria:	17
a.	Proper certification and qualifications are held by the employee.	18
b.	Employee has taught one (1) year in the subject applied for within the past three (3) years 19 or is assigned to teach the subject for die next school year.	20
c.	Uninterrupted seniority in the district	21
4.	During the first three days of summer school, the following ranked criteria shall be used should	22
there be a need to reduce the number of teachers in a specific subject area within the school, or,	23
for exceptional education teachers on a district-wide basis:	-	24
a.	Teachers who do not hold proper certification or qualifications.	25
b.	Teachers who have not taught one (1) year in the subject within the past three (3) years or	26
is not assigned to teach the subject for the next school year.	27
c.	Teachers with least uninterrupted district seniority.	28
5.	Summer school teachers shall not be required to teach less than two (2) hours per day.	29
2003-2006 Master Contract	30
Page 21
1
2 •
ARTICLE XV JOB SHARING
A.	Teacherswhoholdcontinuingcontractorprofessionalservicecontractmayapplytojobshare. Such 3 application must be submitted by the teachers by February 15 of the year preceding the year of the	z
job sharing. An updated plan must be submitted by the teachers with the reapplication annually by	5
March 1. The application or updated reapplication for job sharing must be approved by the principal	6
or supervising administrator of the effected teachers and by the Assistant Superintendent for Human	7
Resources before commencement of the plan. The teachers will be notified in writing of the 8 disposition of the application by March 15 of the year preceding the year ofjob sharing.	9
B.	The application for job sharing must contain a statement signed by the teachers agreeing to the 10 conditions outlined in this article; a copy of the proposed teacher work calendar that addresses 11 proposed work days, planning days, early dismissal days, joint pre- and post-planning days, lunch	12
time, duty responsibilities, and holidays; a signed insurance/paid holiday waiver; and a daily 13 schedule addressing planning/conference period occurring within and outside the student contact	14
C.	Shoukfan application for job sharing not meet the criteria in this article, the affected teachers may	15
present their plan to the Contract Monitoring Committee.	16
D.	The work calendar included in the approved application must reflect a total of the equivalent of 99	17
contract days in the contract year for each teacher who job shares. These 99 days must be 18 consecutive whole work days or 196 consecutive partial work days for each teacher, or an alternative	19
calendar approved by the principal and the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources.	20
E.	The work calendar included in the approved application shall not include any paid holidays not 21 included in this Agreement for other teachers working the normal term of contract. Teachers who	22
job share shall not be entitled to any paid holidays not scheduled during their contracted work period	23
nor to any days in exchange for paid holidays not included in their work calendars.	24
F.	Should one of the teachers wish to resign, that teacher will be responsible for identifying a certified	25
teacher qualified under the provisions of this article who agrees to all of the conditions of the	26
approved and established plan. The principal or supervising administrator and the Assistant	27
Superintendent for Human Resources must approve the teacher replacement. Should no qualified	.
and approved replacement teacher be identified, the remaining teacher agrees to assume the full time	2.
position.	30
G.	To fulfill their professional responsibilities, the teachers who job share may be required, with 31 advance notice, by the principal or supervising administrator to schedule joint conferences, faculty	32
meetings, or inservice beyond the modified work schedule.	33
H.	Credit for experience will be awarded only according to established procedures. Should a year of 34
experience be earned during the contract year, such service will be defined as continuous unless the	35
teacher has broken service through resignation or through other termination process.	3 6
I.	The School Board shall be responsible for health/life insurance coverage in accordance with the 37 insurance article for one teacher involved in the job sharing experience. Should the other teacher 38 whose insurance will not be paid by the School Board wish to have the coverage, that teacher will 39 be responsible for the entire premium.	40
J.	For tiie purpose of job sharing, a full time position will be defined as 50% of a full position plus one	41
day (99 days). All leave policies of the contract apply to job-sharing teachers with the following	42
exception. Each teacher will be allowed to earn five sick leave days, three of which may be	43
personal leave. These teachers may use accrued sick leave from previous years.	44
K.	All other articles contained in this Agreement will apply to the teachers who job share including 45 reduction in force procedures.	46
2003-2006 Master Contract 47
Page 22
ARTICLE XVI	1
LEAVES	2
7 A. Terms	3
1.	Leave granted by the School Board, the Superintendent or his/her designee shall be taken by the	4
individual for the purpose for which it was requested and granted. A teacher who is granted sick,	5
extended sick, child care, maternity, illness-in-line-of-duty, or personal leave shall not accept full-	6
time employment while on such leave of absence. This condition may be waived by action of the	7
Board. A teacher who has been absent for 10 consecutive days or for 15 days in a 20 work day	8
period for the same or related cause shall request the appropriate extended leave of absence in	9
accordance with the rules set forth in this Article. Should such teacher fail to provide sufficient	10
documentation to be eligible for the appropriate extended leave, the School Board shall place such	11
teacher on extended personal leave for the balance of the school year. Teachers may be granted up	12
to two (2) consecutive years of extended leave if such request is filed and approved in the manner	13
set forth in this Article.	14
2.	Teachers who want to return from extended leave which terminates at the close of the school year	15
shall notify the Personnel Division in writing by March 1 of the school year for which leave was	16
granted. If leave is granted after March 1, this written notification of the desire to return shall be	17
submitted with the leave request. Upon return from leave which terminates at any time during or at	18
the end of the school year, reassignment to a vacant position will be based on seniority to a vacant	19
position in which he/she is qualified, provided that the teacher holds a continuing contract or	20
professional services contract The School Board shall not be responsible to any teacher who fails	21
to submit such request in writing as specified above.	22
3.	A request for an extension of an approved extended leave or for a second extended leave in the same	23
school year shall be considered by the Board on a case-by-case basis. Where, in its discretion, the	24
Board determines such repeated leave requests by the teacher are detrimental to the best interests of	25
the students, such leave may be granted only for the remainder of the school year. It will be 26 ... considered a single leave request when child care leave is requested subsequent to and consecutively	27 taken after maternity leave, if notice is given with the maternity leave request that child care leave	28
will be requested. The Board shall not be responsible for reinstatement of a teacher to any vacant	29
position except as otherwise provided herein.	30
4.	Teachers who are denied leave of any type shall be given the reason(s) and rationale for such denial	31
when action is taken.	.	32
5.	"Full-time" as used in this article shall mean a person contracted for a six-tenths (.6) or greater 33 allocated position or for (.6) or more of each consecutive day during the contract period.	34
B. Short Term Leaves	.	35
1.	As used in this section, one day of short term leave for the purpose of accrual and use shall mean to	36
be the equivalent in hours.	37
2.	Sick Leave	38
Each teacher employed on a full-time basis who is unable to perform his/her duty in the school	39
because of illness, or because of illness or death of father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife,	40
child, other close relative, or member of his/her own household and consequently has to be absent,	41
shall be granted leave of absence for sickness. He/she shall be entitled to four (4) days of sick leave	42
as of the first day of employment of each contract year and shall thereafter earn one day of sick leave	43
for each month of employment, which shall be credited to him/her at the end of that month and	44
-which shall not be used prior to the time it is earned and credited to him/her. Each teacher shall be	45
entitled to earn no more than one day of sick leave times the number of months of employment	46
during the year of employment. If the teacherterminates his/her employment and has not accrued	47
the 4 sick days available to him/her, the School Board may withhold the average daily amount for	48
the sick days utilized but unearned by the teacher. Such sick leave shall be cumulative from year	49
to year. There shall be no limit on the number of days of sick leave a teacher may accrue except that	50
Page 23
at least one half of this cumulative leave must be established within the district Teachers are	1
responsible for requesting that accumulated sick leave earned in another county be transferred to the	2 ,
district Transferred sick leave will be posted on the record of the teacher at the rate of one day for	3
each day earned in the district Effective 7-01-97, employees may begin requesting that	4
accumulated sick leave earned while employed by another educational entity governed by the Florida	r
Retirement System (FRS) be transferred to the district Beginning on 7-01 -97, the transferred sick	v
leave from another FRS-govemed educational entity will be posted on the. record of the employee	7
at the rate of one day for each day earned in the district. Before receiving compensation for the time	8
absent on sick leave, teachers shall file an official leave form stating the day or days absent. The	9
administration shall provide this form upon the teacher’s return. Teachers shall not be required to	10
state reasons or nature of illness for sick leave. Sick leave must be substantiated by a physician's	11
statementif it is requested either by the principal orthe Superintendent, when such administrator has	12
reasonable suspicion that an employee has a problem which relates to attendance.	13
3.	Personal Leave With Pay	14
Six (6) days leave per year may be used for the teacher's personal business. Leave of this type is	15
noncumulative and chargeable against accrued sick leave. A teacher planning to use a personal leave	16
day or days shall notify and gain the approval of his/her principal using the appropriate form at least	17
twenty-four (24) hours in advance except in the case of an emergency (See Definition, 5.a below).	18
The teacher shall suffer no loss of pay for such leave and shall not be required to give reasons except	19
that die leave is for "Personal Reasons".	20
4.	Personal Leave Without Pay	21
A teacher may be granted leave days without pay for personal business when extenuating	22
circumstances dictate. This leave may be granted to a teacher only when he/she cannot otherwise	23
schedule his/her business outside of normal working hours. A reason must be stated with the	24
request Personal leave without pay shall be submitted to the principal at least three (3) days prior	25
to the requested date of leave. Hie principal shall review the leave request for approval on a case	26
by case consideration. Any employee who is absent without authorization shall be disciplined after	27
consideration of the facts and in accordance with disciplinary procedures adopted by the Board. 28
5.	Emergency Leave	22_
a.	Definition	.
Emergency leave shall be leave taken for a sudden unexpected happening; an unforeseen 31 occurrence.	32
b.	Emergency Leave Without Pay	33
Leave days for emergency purposes may be granted without pay. Leave of this type must be 34 certified in writing on the appropriate form through channels for approval by the Superintendent	3 5
or his/her designee.	36
6.	Court Leaves	37
Leave with pay may be granted to any teacher when called for jury duty or subpoenaed as a witness,	3 8
or when a written notice to appear in court is received. A copy of the court order or subpoena shall	39
be attached to the appropriate form and the completed form must be filed with the Personnel	40
Division and approved prior to the leave.	41
7.	Illness-In-The-Line-Of-Duty Leave	42
A teacher shall be entitled to illness-in-the-line-of-duty leave when he/she has to be absent from	43
his/her duties because of a personal injury received in the discharge of duty or because of illness	44
from any contagious or infectious disease contracted in school work. Such illness or injury must be	45
certified by both his/her principal and a physician, then forwarded to the Superintendent for his/her	46
recommendation and submission to the Board for approval or disapproval. Except for worker's	47
compensation claims, a teacher who has any claim for compensation under this section while absent	48
because of illness contracted or injury incurred as prescribed herein shall file a claim within fi ve (5)	49
working days following his/her return from such absence. The Board shall approve such claims and	50
authorize the payment thereof, provided that the Board shall satisfy itself that the claim correctly	51
states the facts and that such claimant is entitled to payment in accordance with the provisions of this	52
section. The use of illness-in-the-line-of-duty leave, shall result in no reduction of the teacher's
Page 24
accumulated sick leave. Such leave shall be authorized for a total of not to exceed ten (10) school	1
>	days during any school year for illness contracted or injury incurred from such causes as prescribed	2
above.	3
8.	Temporary Duty Elsewhere	4
Teachers on Temporary Duty Elsewhere shall receive their regular pay and may be allowed 5
>	expenses.	6
9.	Military Leave	7
When their obligation to the United States Armed Services makes unavoidable their failing to meet	8
contractual duties, all members of the bargaining unit will be granted military leave in accordance	9
with the law. Requests for such leave must be submitted in writing on the proper military leave	10
request form with a copy of the orders attached to such form.	11
10.	Professional Leave	12
a.	Professional leave days with pay while school is in session, when properly requested and	13
approved by the Superintendent or his/her designee, may be granted to teachers for the purpose	14
of^	15
(1J Attending and/or participating in professional meetings relating to educational workshops,	16
educational seminars, clinics, or educational conferences in their subject area or area 17 deemed beneficial to the school system by the Superintendent.	18
(2)	Visitation for the purpose ofobserving instructional techniques or programs in their subject	19
area.	20
b.	Professional leave days with pay when properly requested and approved by the Superintendent	21
or his/her designee may be granted to teachers during pre- and post-planning days for attendance	22
in college courses for the purpose of extending certificates or for the purpose of earning credit	23
towardbeingcertifiedinthesubjectareaofteachingresponsibility. This request should be filed	24
with the Personnel Division by ten (10) days prior to the post-planning period for leave during	25
post-planning and pre-planning.	26
c.	Professional leave days without pay when properly requested and approved by the	27
Superintendent or his/her designee may be granted to teachers during pre- and post-planning	28
A	days for the purpose of attending college classes for reasons other than that stated in	29
subparagraph b. above or for the purposes set forth in subparagraph a. above.	30
11.	Bereavement Leave	31
Any teacher who has utilized all of their regular leave (zero leave balance) will be granted one (1)	32
.	day of bereavement leave due to a death in the immediate family. Immediate family shall be defined 33
as father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, child, other close relative, or member of his/her own	34
household. Bereavement leave is of special nature and may not be deferred or converted to any 35 other purpose. It is not charged against any other leave account. Application shall be made to the 36 Superintendent and granted by the Superintendent or his/her designee. The employee will not be 37 paid for days not scheduled to work. In order to honor a request for bereavement leave, details about	38
the relationship may be requested by the Superintendent, as well as appropriate documentation, such	39
as published obituary or copy of death certificate.	40
12. Filing Leave	41
Leave in this Section (B) must be applied for on the authorized form with attachments if required 42 and submitted to the immediate supervisor. The completed form must be submitted to the supervisor	43
by the end of the first day the teacher returns to duty in the case of sick, emergency, or illness-in-the-	44
line-of-duty leave. The administration shall provide this form upon the teacher's return. Otherwise 45 the form must be submitted in advance in accordance with the provisions of this Section (B). Leave	46
' requests must be filed with the Personnel Division.	47
C.> FMLA Leave : . . ■ ;	48
1; ' Leave pursuant to the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA Leave) must be authorized and 49 approved bytheSuperintendentorhis/herdesignee. The request, with required documentation, must	50
be submitted at least thirty days before the date on which the leave is to begin, or, if the need for	51
leave is not sufficiently foreseeable, as soon as practicable. The teacher shall schedule any planned 52 leave so as to not unduly disrupt the operations and educational mission of the School Board.	53
Page 25
FMLA leave will begin on the first work day on which the teacher is absent as a result of the	1
emergency or other situation requiring the leave. Upon expiration of FMLA leave, a returning	2
teacher will be returned to the same or an equivalent position as defined in the Family and Medical	3
Leave Act. For leave due to the teacher’s illness, a statement from the physician verifying the	4
teacher's fitness for duty must be on file with the Personnel Division prior to reemployment.	5
2. For teachers with at least twelve (12) months of service, who are eligible for benefits, leave for	6
childbirth, adoption of a child (including foster care placement), or a serious health-condition of the	7
teacher or to provide necessary care for a member of his/her immediate family (spouse, child,	8
parent), due to serious health condition, will be granted for up to a maximum of twelve (12) weeks	9
in atwelve (12) month period. The amount of leave available for an eligible employee is calculated	10
by using a "rolling" twelve month period measured backward from the date an employee uses any	11
such leave. Leave for birth or adoption of a child must be taken within twelve (12) months of the	12
birth, adoption, or placement for foster care. If both parents are district employees, such employees	13
are permitted to take only a combined total of twelve (12) weeks of leave during any twelve month	14
period for such birth, adoption, or placement for foster care.	15
3.	Intermittent FMLA leave may be granted for medical treatment for the teacher or the teacher's	16
immediate family (spouse, child, parent), within the maximum twelve (12) week leave period, with	17
the appropriate documentation providing the medical necessity for and dates and duration of such	18
treatment. Teachers needing intermittent FMLA leave or leave on a reduced leave schedule must	19
attempt to schedule their leave so as not to disrupt operations of the School Board. In addition, after	20
consultation with the teacher, the School Board may, at its option, assign a teacher to an alternative	21
position with equivalent pay and benefits that the Board determines will better accommodate the	22
teacher’s intermittent or reduced leave schedule. If a teacher needs intermittent leave or a reduced	23
leave schedule involving more than 20% of the working days during the period over which the leave	24
extends, then, after consulting with the teacher and the principal, the Board may, at its option,	25
require the teacher to choose either to: (1) take leave for the full period of the planned treatment;	26
or (2) transfer temporarily to an alternative position if one is available, for which the teacher is	27
qualified, which has equivalent pay, and which the Board determines will better accommodate	28
reoccurring periods of leave than does the teacher’s regular position.	2r
4.	FMLA Leave which is requested by a teacher with a request to return to work three weeks or less	3
than three weeks before the end of the semester, or if the teacher requests FMLA Leave during the	31
last three weeks of the semester, special rules apply under the Family Medical Leave Act which may	32
result in the Board requiring the teacher to continue taking leave until the end of the semester.	33
5.	At the teacher’s option, sick leave days which have been earned and, when sick leave days are	34
exhausted, earned annual leave days, may be used during FMLA leave to care for a sick family	35
member or because of the teacher’s own illness, including any period of disability due to pregnancy,	36
or for the adoption of a child. In addition, earned annual leave may be used during any other FMLA	37
leave. Pay shall not be rendered for any period of time beyond the number of sick leave and annual	3 8
leave days on record.	39
6.	The Board will maintain coverage under its group health plan for any teacher granted FMLA leave.	40
The teacher’s portion of the health insurance premium shall be deducted from any pay received by	41
the teacher during FMLA leave. During unpaid leave, the teacher may continue group health plan	42
coverage by arranging payment of the teacher’s share of the premium. If the teacher does not return	43
from FMLA leave as scheduled, the Board may recover premiums for maintaining group health	44
coverage paid during the leave, unless the teacher's failure to return to work was due to medical or	45
other circumstances beyond the control of the teacher.	46
D. Extended Leave	47
L~When FMLA leave expires, and extended leave beyond twelve (12) weeks is needed, or if the	48
employee is not eligible for FMLA leave, leave of this type may be requested and must be	49
authorized and approved as stipulated below. The request with required documentation must be on	50
file with the Personnel Division and approved prior to the effective date of leave, and must be in	51
ac	cordance with the provisions of Section A and Section B of this Article. Upon return from	52
extended leave, reassignment will be based on seniority and only to a position which is vacant at the
Page 26
time of the return, and for which he/she is qualified, in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 A 2 and in accordance with the provisions below.	2
2.	Extended Sick Leave	3
An extended leave of absence for reasons of personal illness or illness of father, mother, husband,	4
wife, or child may be granted to a teacher for up to one (1) year of disability if verified by a	5
physician, or in accordance with DS. Sick leave days which have been earned and, when sick leave	6
days are exhausted, earned annual leave days, may be used for this purpose but pay shall not be 7 rendered for any period of time beyond the number of earned sick leave days and annual leave days	8
on record. Sick leave days which have been granted in accordance with the rules of die Sick Leave	9
Bank may be used for this purpose if such leave is granted solely for personal illness; however, pay	10
shall not be rendered for any period of time beyond the number of sick leave days granted by the	11
Sick Leave Bank. Extended sick leave shall be granted only for the period of time of physical	12
disability verified bythephysician,mustbeapprovedbythe Superintendent or his/her designee, and	13
a statement from the physician verifying the teacher's ability to return to work must be on file with	14
the Personnel Division prior to reemployment	15
3.	Maternity Leave	16
Leave may be granted to a teacher for pregnancy during a period of time from nine (9) months prior	17
to the due date and two (2) months after delivery or for whatever period of time of disability	18
designated by the attending physician, which is directly a result of the pregnancy. A physician's 19 statement shall accompany such request and must verify the dates requested. The request must be 20 approved by the Superintendent or his/her designee. Sick leave days which have been earned or have	21
been granted in accordance with the rules of the Sick Leave Bank may be used during any portion	22
of this leave during which the physician verifies in writing that the teacher is disabled, otherwise,	23
maternity leave shall be without pay.	24
4.	Child Care Leave	25
Leave without pay may be granted to any teacher for the purpose of the care of a dependent child	26
under the age of two living in the same household. If the dependent child in the same household is	27
over the age of two, an accompanying statement from a physician verifying the need for the teacher	28
to care for the child and verifying the period of time required for such leave must accompany this 29 request. The request must be approved by the Superintendent or his/her designee.	30
5.	Military Leave	31
a.	Any teacher required as a result of the draft, enlistment, or recall to serve in the armed forces	32
of the United States shall be granted extended leave without pay, by the Superintendent or	33
his/her designee, for such service to a maximum of four (4) years. This may be extended at the	34
request or for the convenience of the federal government or upon authorization of the President	3 5
of the United States. A teacher returning from such leave shall be returned to employment,	36
without prejudice, provided discharge or release is under honorable conditions, and application	37
for re-employment is filed in accordance with the requirements of federal law. The school 38 district shall employ the teacher returning from such leave by not later than thirty (30) days from	39
the date of the teacher's written application for re-employment. Such teacher shall be returned	40
to his/her former position or to a similar position satisfactory to the teacher and for which he/she	41
is fully qualified.	.	42
b.	Teachers who are members of the National Guard or Reserves who are called to active military	43
service shall be granted extended leave by the Superintendent or his/her designee. Such leave	44
shall be with full pay and benefits for the first thirty (30) calendar days. For the 1990-92 school	45
years, the School Board shall supplement the individual in an amount necessary to bring his/her	46
total income, inclusive of the total military income, to the level for which he/she was contracted	47
at the time he/she was called to active military, duty and shall continue to provide insurance	48
benefits in the same manner as that provided other full time teachers who are on School Board	49
approved extended leave, so long as he/she remains on active duty. A teacher returning from	50
such leave who reapplies to be re-employed in accordance with law, shall be returned to	51
employment without prejudice according to the provisions set forth in law.	52
Page 27
6.	Extended Professional Leave	1
A leave of absence for professional improvement, without salary, may be granted for any teacher,	2
upon ■application, for up to one (1) year and upon reapplication, for up to a second year, for die	3
pu	rpose of:	4
a.	Engaging in study at an accredited university in his/her subject area or area deemed beneficial 5 to the school system by the Superintendent	6
b.	Full-time participation in the federally sponsored Peace Corps or Job Corps.	7
c.	Participating in foreign exchange teaching programs.	8
d.	Full-time teaching in his/her subject area in Department of Defense or Department of State 9 programs.	10
e.	Engaging in study or an activity deemed beneficial to the school system. Such applications shall	11
be subject to approval by die Contract Monitoring Committee. Approved applications shall be	12
forwarded to die Superintendent for final approval.	13
Application for such leave shall be submitted to the Superintendent not later than sixty (60) days 14 prior tothe start of the date when the leave is to commence. Application for reemployment should	15
be filed at least six (6) months prior to the end of leave. Upon return from such leave the teacher	16
shall be returned to a position which is vacant at the time of return and for which he/she is certified	17
7.	Extended Personal Leave	18
There are conditions which make it reasonable for a teacher to be temporarily excused from his/her	19
contractual obligations for personal reasons. Extended personal leave may be granted only for a 20 maximum of one (1) year. Leave for this purpose must be supported by appropriate documentation	21
and the request must be on file with the Personnel Division and approved, by die Superintendent or	22
his/her designee prior to the effective date of leave.	23
8.	Fitness for Duty/Medical Examination	24
a.	If the Superintendent has reasonable suspicion based upon objective factors to indicate an	25
impairment of performance or productivity rendering the employee unable to safely and	26
satisfactorily perform his/her complete duties and responsibilities, the Superintendent may 27 require the employee to submit to a physical, medical or psychiatric examination or other	28
laboratory tests to determine the employee's fitness to perform the complete duties and	29
responsibilities of die employee's position.	3<
b.	Any examination performed under tins Article will be performed by a medical physician,	31
psychologist, psychiatrist or laboratory testing facility (where testing for substance abuse)	32
selected by the employee from a list of at least three (3) physicians, psychologists, psychiatrists,	33
or two to five laboratory testing facilities (where applicable) recommended by the district. A 34 copy of the list of laboratory facilities will be provided by the Superintendent to the Association	3 5
annually and updated accordingly. The written results of the evaluation shall be submitted by 36 the examining physician, psychologists, psychiatrist or laboratory facility to the Superintendent	3 7
and to the employee. Otherwise, the report will remain confidential. Where the Superintendent	3 8
receives a medical report that the teacher is infected with or is a carrier of a contagious disease,	39
a medical examination by a public health physician may be required.	40
c.	Ifthe employee disagrees with medical examination results other than substance abuse tests, the	41
employee may, within five (5) working days of receiving the results of the examination, provide	42
the Superintendent with medical or psychiatric verification from the employee's own physician,	43
psychologist or psychiatrist An employee may not be reimbursed for the expense of any 44 medical, psychological or psychiatric examination conducted by the employee's own physician,	45
psychologist, or psychiatrist.	46
d.	The district will be responsible for all expenses incurred from any district-required medical, 47 psychologists, or psychiatric examination performed by a physician or psychiatrist from the 48 district's recommended list. Hie district will be responsible for the cost of a confinnation test	49
where initial tests are positive for substance abuse.	.	50
e.	Ifthe information revealed by the medical examinations) indicates that the employee cannot	51
safely and satisfactorily perform the complete duties and responsibilities of the employee's 52 position, the Superintendent shall:	r
Page 28
(1)	Determine whether another position is available for which the employee would be qualified	1
and in which the employee can safely and satisfactorily perform the complete duties and 2 responsibilities of the position. If so, the Superintendent shall offer the employee an 3 opportunity to accept a transfer to such position.	4
(2)	If no such transfer is available or if the employee declines an offered transfer, and if no	5
reasonable means of accommodation is available, the Superintendent shall file a	6
recommendation with the School Board recommending that the employee be placed on 7 compulsory Extended Sick Leave.	8
(3)	When an Employee Assistance Program becomes available, the Superintendent shall 9 consider placement in such program prior to e.(2).	10
(4)	Nothing in this Article shall prevent the district from taking disciplinary action in 11 accordance with Article XVHI of this Agreement.	12
f.	Should the employee's physical or mental impairment be corrected during the term of the 13 employee's compulsory Extended Sick Leave and so certified by the employee's own attending	14
physician, psychologists or psychiatrist, the employee may petition die Superintendent for	15
reinstatement. At this time, the employee will submit to additional examinations under the	16
procedures described in Section C.8.b. of this Article. Based upon the results of the medical	17
examinations, the Superintendent shall file a written recommendation on the petition for 18 reinstatement with the School Board with regard to reinstatement or denial of reinstatement. 19 Should an employee's petition for reinstatement be approved, the reinstatement and 20 reassignment shall be determined in accordance with Section C.l. of this Article.	21
E.	Reimbursement for Travel	22
Travel reimbursement including in-county, out-of-county, per diem, and expenses shall be reimbursed 23 at the normal rate established by the Board and must be authorized and approved by the Superintendent	24
prior to the incurrence. Reimbursement procedures and rules as established in the current School Board	25
Rules shall be followed.	26
F.	Sabbatical Leave	27
1.	Leave may be granted by the Board to a certificated employee for the purpose of engaging in full- 28 time study at a public or regionally accredited institution of higher education under rules adopted 29 by the Board.	30
2.	Only certificated staff members, who have taught in the Clay County Schools for at least eight (8)	31
consecutive years, broken only by an authorized leave of absence, and who have not received an	32
unsatisfactory evaluation may apply or be considered for approval for sabbatical leave. No more	33
than two (2) requests for sabbatical leave may be approved for any given school year.	34
3.	Such sabbatical year shall be for a one (1) year period and may not be extended.	35
4.	A certificated staff member who is approved for such sabbatical leave shall not accept or agree to 36 receive during such period of leave any compensation, through grant or extra employment, which,	37
when added to the salary paid by the Board would be in excess of his/her ordinary salary.	38
5.	The Board agrees to pay any certificated staff member who has been approved for sabbatical leave,	39
50% of his/her normally contracted salary during the year of leave. Benefits shall be paid during the	40
year of sabbatical by the Board to such persons on approved sabbatical leave in the same manner as	41
normally paid to a person employed on a 50% contract. Sick leave benefits shall not be available	42
to such persons but insurance benefits that are available to full time employees shall be available to	43
persons on sabbatical leave.	44
6.	Upon returning from an approved year of sabbatical leave, the staff member shall present proof of	45
compliance with the conditions of the approved leave and be placed in a vacant position in which	46
he/she is certified. Such staff member shall accept such position as a further condition of the	47
sabbatical leave.	.	48
7.	If the staff member approved for sabbatical leave fails to abide by the conditions for sabbatical leave,	49
the staff member shall reimburse the Board for all salary paid and for the cost of all benefits paid	50
during such sabbatical. A contract to this effect shall be signed by the Board and the person	51
affected.	52
2003-2006 Master Contract	53
Page 29
ARTICLE XVH	1
CLASS SIZE	2
✓
A.	The Superintendent and his/her staff will annually recommend to the School Board the number of 3 teachers to be assigned to each school.	4
B.	Class size may vary in schools because of local conditions and needs. During the first full calendar 5 month of school, the Superintendents staff shall review any circumstances ofteachers' class loads whose	6
enrollment is in excess of those set forth in the current Policies, Principles, and Standards for the	7
Accreditation of Elementary, Middle, and High Schools, Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.	8
Within the guidelines herein, the number of students assigned to a teacher in the traditional, block, or 9 alternative scheduled classes will be comparable.	10
C.	The Superintendent's staff will annually, within four (4) weeks after school begins, and again within	11
three (3) weeks of the beginning of the second semester, review with the Association the class load of	12
each classroom teacher. The results of this review will be submitted in writing to the Deputy	13
Superintendent He/she in turn, will submit to the Association and the Superintendent these results along	14
with plans to bring the school into compliance with SACS recommendations for the continued 15 accreditation of the school.	16
2003-2006 Master Contract	17
Page 30
1
2
ARTICLE XVHI TEACHER EVALUATION
A.	The Board and the Association recognize that the basic purpose of evaluation is to improve the	3
instruction and the effective operation of the total school system.	4
B.	The Board and the Association agree to organize a committee consisting of classroom teachers and	5
administrators to meet annually during the first semester, or as deemed necessary by the Committee,	6
for the purpose of evaluating the procedures used in the Clay Assessment System (CAS). When the	7
committee deems it appropriate that changes in the procedures used should be made, it will 8 recommend these changes, in writing, to the Superintendent for his/her approval or disapproval. If	9
disapproved, the changes will be returned to the committee for modification. The Superintendent	10
will send approved changes to the Board for its consideration. The committee will be composed of	11
four (4) members selected by the Association and four (4) members and a chairman appointed by 12 the Superintendent The chairman will be responsible for notifying all members of time and place	13
of meetings at least two (2) weeks in advance. The chairman is empowered to vote only when a tie	14
vote occurs.	15
C.	The policy on teacher evaluation as outlined by the Board shall be adhered to in evaluating teachers.	16
. Principals or District Staff are responsible for the implementation of CAS in accordance with the	17
policy. The policy shall provide for appropriate classroom observation which shall be done with the	18
teacher’s knowledge and appropriate advance notice. However, the principal retains the right to 19 utilize informal classroom observations without advance notice as part of die evaluation process. 20 Suitable post-observation conferences shall be included in the policy. If a teacher disagrees with 21 his/her final evaluation report, he/she may submit a written statement thereon which shall be 22 attached to the evaluation report. The teacher may request the presence of the Association	23
representative at any step in the CAS appeal procedure properly initiated by the teacher.	24
D.	Effective in 2002-2003 the revised Clay Assessment System (CAS) shall be implemented. This 25 revised plan includes newprovisions for identifying exemplary teachers eligible for performance pay	26
as well as new provisions that allow PSC/CC teachers to be formally evaluated once every three	27
years. Evaluators are encouraged to use evaluation instruments that are most appropriate to the	28
situation. This includes FPMS Summative, FPMS formatives, CET strategies and other district- 29 approved instruments on which they have been trained.	30
E.	The evaluator may conduct informal observations without advance notice as part of the evaluation	31
process.	32
F.	Post observation conferences shall be held in accordance with the 2002-2003 Revised CAS Manual.	33
G.	If a teacher disagrees with his/her final evaluation report, he/she may submit a written statement,	34
which shall be attached to the evaluation report.	35
H.	The CAS appeal process may be initiated by the teacher in accordance with the procedure outlined	36
in the CAS manual.	37
I.	The teacher may request the presence of an Association representative at any step in the CAS appeal	38
procedure properly initiated by the teacher.	39
J.	If the teacher has concerns that the evaluation procedures have not been correctly followed, the	40
procedural concerns may be addressed through the use of the grievance procedure outlined in Article	41
m.	42
K.	Each teacher shall be given a copy of his/her formal evaluation within ten (10) working days from	43
the date of completion of same.	44
L.	All evaluations shall be concluded prior to making recommendations for reappointments, where	45
applicable, in accordance with state law. Effective 2002-2003 teachers working toward exemplary 46 status may be recommended for reappointment before the final exemplary status is determined. 47 M. "Days" as used in the policy on teacher evaluation and in the CAS manual shall mean "working 48 days". "24 hours" as used in the policy on teacher evaluation and in the CAS manual shall mean 'one	49
work day*. "72 hours" as used in the policy on teacher evaluation and CAS manual shall mean	50
"three work days."	51
Page 31
N.	Members of the bargaining unit shall not be required to evaluate another member of the bargaining	1
unit when such evaluation is conducted under the provisions of this article. Observations may be	2	■
conducted as prescribed by CAS.	3
O.	If a teacher’s unsatisfactory evaluation results in placement on a 90-day probationary status the	4
following will apply:	F
1.	The teacher will be notified that this process may result in termination of employment;	v
2.	Every effort will be made to assure that the teacher understands the improvements required, the	7
benchmarks for measuring progress and the time line for progress evaluation.	8
2003-2006 Master Contract	9
Page 32
1
2
ARTICLE XIX TEACHER DISCIPLINE
A.	Just Cause	3
1.	Teachers may be disciplined including reprimand, suspension and dismissal only for just cause. 4 Annual contract teachers may be nonrenewed as consistent with current law.	5
2.	The warnings procedure of Paragraph B of this Article will be followed prior to official disciplinary	6
action (reprimand, suspension or dismissal) where the misconduct is not so aggravated, in the	7
opinion of the Superintendent, as to call for immediate reprimand, suspension or dismissal.	8
B.	Warnings	9
1.	Oral warnings may be given at the discretion of the principal but do not constitute official 10 disciplinary action. Such warning must be given in the presence of a witness. There is no restriction	11
on thejiumber of oral warnings a principal may give. An oral warning shall normally precede a	12
written warning advising the teacher that he/she is in danger of or is violating district policy or	13
contract rules.	14
2.	The first written warning will not be considered a disciplinary action nor be considered part of the	15
teacher's personnel file.	16
3.	A second written warning on the same or like occurrence will be considered a reprimand and will 17 become part of the teacher's personnel file.	18
C.	Assurances	19
1.	Teachers may append written warnings with signed statements.	20
2.	No anonymous letters or materials may be placed in die personnel file. Derogatory material	21
pertaining to work performance, including teacher response, if any, to said material, or other such	22
matters that may be cause for discipline, suspension, or dismissal may be placed in the file only after	23
the teacher has been notified in accordance with procedures developed by the Division of Human	24
Resources and in accordance with requirements set forth in Florida Statutes 231.291. Upon request,	25
all aspects of the teacher’s file (located at the county office and possibly at the building site) except	26
materials obtained as part of an authorized investigation and materials which are confidential in	27
accordance with the law to the extent permitted by law shall be open to the teacher, any person	28
designated in writing by the teacher, and others as indicated by law. ,	29
D.	The employee shall be notified in writing when the contents of his/her personnel file are examined by 30 anyone other than the employee or employer.	31
2003-2006 Master Contract	32
Page 33
1
2
ARTICLE XX INSERVICE
A.	The inservice program shall be reviewed annually by the Professional Development Advisory Council .? acting through the School Board.
B.	The Association shall provide the Board with a list of classroom teachers qualified to serve on the 5 PDAC Council. Such list shall exceed the number of vacancies by at least twice the number. The Board	6
shall fill vacancies from the list submitted but reserves the right to reject all or any part of any list	7
submitted. Teacher members of the Professional Development Advisory. Council shall serve no more	8
than two (2) consecutive terms.	9
C.	There shall be a written evaluation of all workshops and/or inservice programs at the end of such 10 programs by teachers attending. Such evaluations shall be forwarded to the Professional Development 11 Advisory Council, Inservice Director, and the Deputy Superintendent, and made available to the 12 Association.	13
D.	Teachers may be required to attend inservice training during the scheduled or primary day unless it is 14 clearly inappropriate for a particular individual.	15
2003-2006 Master Contract	16
Page 34
ARTICLE XXI SCHOOL CALENDAR
1
2
3
A.	Association Recommendations	4
The Association may present in a timely maimer to the Superintendent its recommendations relative to 5 the beginning and ending dates for teachers, planning days and holidays for teachers along with 6 supporting reasons. The Superintendent will consider these recommendations and supporting reasons, 7 if provided in the manner indicated. The Board will notify the Association at least twenty (20) working	8
days before the deadline for submission of such recommendations.	9
B.	Authority to Set Calendar	10
The Board has the statutory authority to establish the school calendar and shall consider the final 11 recommendations from the Superintendent	12
C.	Emergency Calendar Changes	13
In the casejof emergencies or acts of God, the Superintendent shall have the authority to make changes	14
in the calendar as deemed appropriate to ensure the statutorily required length of school year, subject to	15
approval by the School Board. Before making any recommendation to the Board, the Superintendent 16 or his/her designee shall notify and consult with the Association President.	17
D.	Paid Holidays	18
The annual contract year for teachers shall consist of 196 days, six (6) paid holidays. All new teachers	19
whose employment begins at the start of the school year, including those who will be enrolled in the	20
district’s Teacher Induction Program, shall be employed for additional days prior to the first day for	21
all other teachers. The length of each of these days shall be determined by the Superintendent, based	22
on training requirements. Compensation for these days shall be paid at the rate established in Appendix	23
IVD of the Salary Schedule.	24
The following dates shall be the six (6) paid holidays for the 2003-2004 school year:	25
September 01,2003	Labor Day	26
November 11,2003	Veteran's Day	27
November 27,2003	Thanksgiving Day	28
December 25,2003	Christmas Day	29
January 1,2004	New Year's Day	30
April 09,2004	Good Friday	31
The annual contract year for eleven (11) month teachers shall consist of 216 days, seven (7) paid	32
holidays. The following date shall be added to the above six (6) paid holidays for eleven (11) month	33
teachers for the 2003-2004 school year:	34
May 31,2004	Memorial Day	35
The annual contract year for twelve (12) month teachers shall consist of260 days, nine (9) paid holidays.	36
When necessary to reduce the number of workdays to 260, impaid holidays shall be observed on the 37 Federal observance of Martin Luther King’s birthday and, if necessary, the Wednesday prior to 38 Thanksgiving. The following dates shall be added to the above seven (7) paid holidays for twelve (12)	39
month teachers for the 2003-2004 school year.	40
July 03,2003	July 4 _ _	41
November 28,2003	Friday after Thanksgiving	42
43
2003-2006 Master Contract	44
45
Page 35
1
2 •
ARTICLE XXH INSURANCE
A.	The Board agrees to pay 100% or up to $2641.40, whichever is less, of the premiums for single coverage	X
for the comprehensive hospital-surgical-major medical and group life insurance policy for each full time teacher contracted in at least a .6 allocated position or for (.6) or more of each consecutive day for 60	5
days or more or for the balance of the school year.	6
B.	Other health related employee programs may be studied by this committee. Such health related	7
employee benefits may include such health related coverage as may be necessary for portions of the	8
employee assistance program, if established, which may require such coverage. Additional health	9
related employee benefits recommended by this committee shall be at no cost to the Board unless	10
otherwise negotiated. Only this committee shall be utilized in making recommendations to the School	11
Board on matters pertaining to insurance as covered in this article.	12
C.	Policies shall include benefits in accordance with the terms and conditions as set forth in the master 13 insurance policies as provided by the Board.	14
D.	1. An insurance committee shall be formed one third (1/3) ofwhich will be association representation.	15
This committee will meet at least monthly when necessary. The Superintendent shall select the 16 chairperson of the Insurance Committee. Decisions of the committee shall be made by consensus.	17
If consensus cannot be reached a majority vote of the membership will make the decision. The 18 chairperson will be empowered to vote only upon a tie vote.	19
2. The insurance committee shall review and recommend actions with regard but not limited to:	20
Bids	21
Specifications	22
Recommendation on Invitation to Bid	23
Bid Tabulations	24
Monthly Insurance Experience Rating Reports	-	25
The Board does not relinquish or delegate any authority or responsibility as mandated by laws	26
pertaining to bidding or employee group insurance or health related programs.	~~
E. An Employee Assistance Program, when funded by the Board, will be provided for all teachers with the	.
following provisions:	.	29
1.	To assure employee confidentiality, the Employee Assistance Program will be managed by someone	30
who is not an employee of the Clay County School Board.	31
2.	Costs of fitness for duty evaluations will be paid by the employer.	32
3.	Other costs incurred by voluntary participation will be the responsibility of the individual and may 33 be covered by existing insurance policies.	34
2003-2006 Master Contract	3 5
-	36
Page 36
1
2
ARTICLE XXDI SICK LEAVE BANK
A.	Committee	3
A sick leave bank shall be established for participating teachers. Such bank shall be administered by a	4
committee composed of three (3) persons selected by the Association which shall adhere to all rules,	5
laws and regulations in effect and with the terms of this contract as ratified or amended.	6
B.	As used in this article, one day of leave shall mean the equivalent in hours.	7
C.	Membership	8
1.	Any teacher who has been employed a minimum of one (1) year in Clay County and who has an 9 accumulation of a minimum of eight (8) days of sick leave on record shall be eligible for	10
membership in the bank Such membership and participation shall, at all times, be voluntary. Each 11 participating teacher shall contribute one (1) day of earned sick leave during the first thirty (30)	12
working days of the 196-day contract year. This day shall not be returned to the teacher unless the 13 bank fails to come into existence in accordance with the following rules. No further contributions 14 to the bank shall be necessary except as provided below for the replenishment of the bank.	15
2.	Members who are retiring shall be permitted to donate any portion of their unused sick leave days 16 beyond the maximum accumulated days established for terminal pay.	17
D.	Procedures and Audit	18
The Sick Leave Bank committee shall consult with and comply with procedures developed by the	19
Personnel Division and Business Affairs Division regarding the identifying and recording of	20
contributions. These Divisions will provide the Association with verification of Sick Leave Bank 21 enrollment to the extent practicable by December 15. Such record keeping and procedures shall be 22 audited by these Divisions to insure compliance with regulations.	23
E.	Bank Rules	24
1.	The Sick Leave Bank shall have a minimum of two hundred fifty (250) days on deposit before being	25
activated. At no time shall the balance of days on deposit fall below zero (0).	26
2.	In the event the balance of days on deposit is below two hundred (200) days at the start of the school	27
year, all participating members shall contribute one (1) additional day during the first thirty (30)	28
working days of the 196-day contract year in order to replenish the bank to the level established in	29
E. 1. above for reactivation. If the balance of days on deposit falls below one hundred (100) days	30
during the school year, all participating members shall be asked to contribute one additional day to	31
the Sick Leave Bank. Exception: Sick Leave Bank members who have drawn from the bank during	32
the current school year and who have no accumulated sick leave shall be required to contribute the	33
additional day as soon as a sick leave day is available under normal earning of sick leave. Any	34
teacher not contributing under this provision shall be considered to have dropped his/her	35
membership and shall not have his/her previously contributed days returned. The one (1) day 36 contributed under this section (E. 2.) shall not be returned to the teacher unless the bank fails to be	37
reactivated.	38
3.	Use and Application	39
a.	Sick leave drawn from the bank by participating members must be used for said members’	40
prolonged personal illness, accident, or injury. An illness or injury shall be considered	41
prolonged (1) where there is no reasonable expectation that the teacher will be physically able	42
to return to employment within 3 months of the date of application to draw Sick Leave Bank 43 days or (2) where due to unexpected complications, the injury or illness causes the member to 44 be physically disabled for 3 or more months after the requirements of 3b and 3c (below) are met.	45
b.	No member shall be eligible to use the bank until he/she has exhausted all accumulated sick 46 leave on record.	47
c.	Any member wishing to use the bank must have been a member of the bank for at least thirty	48
(30)	working days before contraction of the illness unless waived in the case of extreme	49
emergency by the committee. In addition, the member must have been absent for a minimum 50 of fifteen (15) consecutive work days.	51
Page 37
d.	Any member applying for days from the Sick Leave Bank must havefiled an application with 1 the Board for Extended Sick Leave that has been received by the Personnel Office and approved	2
pending Board action. Written notification to the Sick Leave Bank Committee will be made	3
within 3 working days of the Personnel Office approval or disapproval.	4
e.	Any member applying for days from the Sick Leave Bank must file with the committee an 5 application. This application must be accompanied by a form filled out by the doctor which < certifies the illness or disability and the length of anticipated physical disability. The member	7
must certify in the application the date leave began, the date sick leave will be exhausted, the	8
date on which the Sick Leave Bank is requested, and the necessity for the extended leave. The	9
committee reserves the right to request a second medical opinion at the cost of the applicant 10 Modifications to initial Sick Leave Bank agreement to use partial days will require that a letter	11
of request and physician’s statement be submitted to the Sick Leave Bank Committee. The	12
committee will review the addendum and respond in writing to the teacher and district office to	13
approve or deny the requested modification.	14
f.	No member shall be permitted to use the Sick Leave Bank if he/she is on injury or illness in the	15
line of duty leave or drawing workers' compensation.	16
g.	No member shall be eligible to draw more than sixty (60) days from the bank during any school	17
year. A member drawing leave from the bank, who is released by his/her doctor to return on a	18
partial day schedule before his/her 60 days have been used, may draw partial days from the bank	19
until he/she has used his/her entire sixty (60) days or until he/she is released to work full time 20 by his/her doctor.	21
h.	Part-time teachers (less than .6) shall not be eligible to draw leave from or contribute leave to	22
the sick leave bank. However, teachers who participate in job sharing, are allocated ".5 and 1	23
day," and earn leave shall be eligible to participate in the sick leave bank.	24
i.	Teachers who are members of the sick leave bank and then become part-time teachers (less than	25
.6) can remain members of the sick leave bank but may not draw leave from the bank until they	26
return to full time status (.6 or more).	27
4.	Abuse	28
a.	If a member is found to have abused the use of the Sick Leave Bank, he/she shall repay the days	2°
drawn from the bank and be subject to such other disciplinary action as determined by the . School Board.	31
b.	The Sick Leave Bank Committee may review medical reports filed with the Superintendent's 32 Office in accordance with the Leaves Article concerning the applicant’s condition requiring sick	33
leave bank days.	34
c.	The Sick Leave Bank Committee reserves the right of periodical medical review of the 35 applicants condition which may include a second opinion.	36
5.	Withdrawal From Sick Leave Bank	37
Teachers wishing to withdraw membership in the bank shall not have their contributed sick leave 38 days returned.	39
F.	Hold Harmless	40
The Association and members of the bargaining unit shall indemnify and save the Board harmless against	41
and from any and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of liability that may arise out of or by reason	42
of action taken, or not taken, by the Board for the purpose of granting this procedure for teachers to use	43
this Sick Leave Bank.	44
2003-2006 Master Contract	45
46
Page 38
ARTICLE XXIV	1
EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS FOR ELEVEN AND TWELVE MONTH	2
INSTRUCTIONAL EMPLOYEES	3
A.	Eleven Month Employees/Ten and Eleven Month School Psychologists	4
1.	Employees who are contracted for an eleven (11) month position shall be contracted on the basis of	5
a 216 day contract year. The calendar for these employees shall be the same as that established for	6
ten (10) month employees with the exception of the beginning and ending dates of employment	7
2.	With the exception of School Psychologists and Occupational/Physical Therapists, eleven month 8 employees shall be paid a prorated amount based on their number of contract days times their daily	9
rate of pay established from the salary schedule for teachers.	10
3.	Ten and eleven month School Psychologists and Occupational/Physical Therapists shall be paid a 11 prorated amount based on their contract days times their daily rate of pay established from the 12 applicable salary schedule.	13
4.	No annual leave shall accrue for ten or eleven month employees.	14
B.	Twelve Month Employees	15
1.	Employees who are contracted for twelve (12) months shall work under the same calendar 16 established by the School Board for twelve (12) month employees. These employees shall accrue	17
annual leave and be eligible for additional paid holidays as established by the Board.	18
2.	Annual leave days for twelve (12) month employees shall accrue from the first month of employment	19
at	the rate of:	20
a.	One (1) day per month of employment for employees with less than five (5) continuous years	21
of total employment with Clay County or other Florida county school system.	22
b.	One and one-fourth (11/4) days per month of employment for employees with at least five (5)	23
continuous years but less than ten (10) continuous years of employment with Clay County or 24 other Florida county school system.	25
c.	One and one-half (1 14) days per month of employment for employees with at least ten (10)	26
continuous years of employment with Clay County or other Florida county school system.	27
3.	Up to four (4) days of annual leave may be granted in addition to the days earned in subparagraph	28
2 above for use only during the Christmas Holidays or the first four (4) work days in January as 29 directed by the Superintendent	30
4.	All annual leave days on record in excess of thirty four (34) shall be voided on each employee's 31 record at the end of each fiscal year.	32
5.	Normally six (6) months of successful continuous service shall be required before any vacation leave	33
ma	y be granted by the Superintendent or his/her designee and taken by the employee. Accrued	34
vacation leave must be applied for and taken at the time of separation from 12-month employment,	35
ex	cept as provided under subparagraph a, below. Employees may be required to take vacation leave	36
du	ring Christmas holidays or as directed by the Superintendent.	37
a.	Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP) enrollees may electto apply for and may receive	38
either full or partial vacation lump sum payoffs atthe time of DROP enrollment Those electing	39
this option will continue to accrue vacation leave during DROP participation at the accrual rate	40
they had attained prior to DROP enrollment and may apply for a second lump stun payoff at the	41
time of DROP termination, provided that the total vacation leave paid off with both lump sums	42
does not exceed the maximum of accrued vacation leave permissible by the provisions of this 43 Article.	44
b.	Effective March 17,2000, an employee who elects to enter DROP and who elects to receive a 45 lump-sum payment for accrued annual leave upon beginning DROP participation shall have said	46
lump-sum payment deposited into the Board-approved 401 (a) Qualified Retirement Plan, subject	47
to annual contribution limits. An employee who receives a lump-sum payment of accrued 48 annual leave upon termination of DROP and termination of employment shall deposit said lump-	49
sum payment into a Board-approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan subject to annual 50 contribution limits.	51
Page 39
c.	Effective March 17, 2000, an employee who terminates employment through regular FRS 1 retirement shall deposit 100% of his/her terminal sick and annual leave payments into a Board-	2 .
approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan subject to the limits established by the Internal	3
Revenue Service. Such deposit shall be made at the time of retirement in keeping with	4
procedures and timelines established by Business Affairs.	/
6.	No more than ten (10) continuous days or thirty four (34) total days of earned annual leave may be	\
taken by an employee except when approved at the discretion of the Superintendent	7
C.	All verified teaching and School Psychologist experience under contract or under a 310 agreement in 8
public schools in the U.S. or U.S. territories or schools under Department of Defense/State jurisdiction,	9
accredited private school experience or up to four years of clinical psychology experience as state	10
licensed psychologist shall be used to determine the placement of School Psychologists on the salary	11
schedule. As of July 1,2001, up to 20 years of approved, verified teaching experience may be accepted	12
for new hires. For each year accepted, documentation of a satisfactory performance evaluation must be	13
provided. (Note: Prior to July 1,2001, the maximum years of teaching experience accepted for new hires	14
was 8 years.) Effective July 1,2001, verified administrative experience in a public, private or parochial	15
PK-12 school system may be included in the up-to-20 years of verified experience granted to a new hire.	16
Approved private school experience beyond four (4) years shall be applied to salary, effective 7-01-97.	17
Experience earned as a Clay County administrator, or, effective July 1,2001, as a Clay County support 18 employee may be credited to the School Psychologist for placement on the salary schedule. See Article	19
XXVHI, Compensation, for experience granted to eligible Occupational and Physical Therapists and	20
stipulations regarding college/university accreditation and experience, and private school accreditation	21
and experience.	22
D.	In die case of an emergency or for energy conservation, the Superintendent may recommend and tire	23
School Board may approve an extension of the scheduled day. However, the hours in the work week for	24
bargaining unit employees shall not exceed the number of hours of a normal work week.	25
2003-2006 Master Contract	26
Page 40
1
2
ARTICLE XXV MISCELLANEOUS
A.	Admission to School Athletic Events	3
Members of the bargaining unit shall be admitted without charge to any school-sponsored home athletic	4
event in which the member’s school participates. This provision shall not apply to state athletic playoff	5
events. At all such events, the member shall provide identification substantiating the member's 6 employment at the affected school.	7
B.	Forms for Implementation of Contract	8
Forms required for the implementation of any part of this contract shall be comprehensive in design and	9
shall meet MIS standards.	10
C.	Fees for Dues Deduction	11
The parties agree that the Association shall reimburse the Board for the cost of bookkeeping, retention,	12
and transmittal of funds for the Association dues deducted by the Board. In lieu of such reimbursement	13
for dues deductions, the Board shall retain the first $100 deducted by the School Board for said dues	14
provided no changes in dues occur after August 15 of the affected school year. If any change in the dues	15
deduction rate is requested by the Association, the Board shall retain an additional $.40 per affected	16
teacher. This fee shall be effective the 1981-82 school year. The Association shall indemnify and save	17
and hold the Board harmless against and from any and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of	18
liability that may arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Board on the account of	19
'	deducting dues.	20
2003-2006 Master Contract	21
Page 41
ARTICLE XXVI	1
CONTRACT MONITORING	2
A.	A committee composed of the Association president, at least one but no more than two (2) designees of	3
the president, the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources, and at least one but no more than two	4
(2) designees of the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources shall be created to deal with requests	5
for contract compliance review and contract waivers, necessitated by new, innovative programs and/or	6
school improvement efforts. When this committee deems it appropriate, teacher and school	7
administration representatives may be invited to speak before the committee. This committee shall meet	8
as necessary.	9
B.	This committee shall have the authority to waive contract language for matters limited to a particular	10
school or project for a period of time no longer than die remainder of the school year.	11
C.	Any waivers or approvals granted by this committee will be reported to the bargaining teams during 12 reopener negotiations. The continuation of any such waivers or approvals will be considered by the 13 collective bargaining teams.	14
2003-2006 Master Contract	15
Page 42
ARTICLE XXVII	1
CONTRACT COMMITTEES	2
A.	Committee On Supplements	3
A committee shall be formed composed of school principals selected by the Superintendent, and teachers	4
selected by the association. These members shall be representative of each level and shall review the	5
issue of supplements as may be needed. This committee may review, among other issues, the	6
classifications of supplements and the philosophy relative to each classification, responsibilities for each	7
supplemental position, criteria for qualifications and selecting personnel for the positions, salary levels 8 for supplemental positions, and criteria for adding or deleting supplemental positions.	9
B.	Accountability	10
At least 20% of the elementary school and at least 30% of the secondary School Advisory Council will	11
consist of teachers. The teachers representing the faculty will be elected by secret ballot. The election	12
will be conducted by the principal and an Association representative. The duties of the Council shall 13 be determined by School Board Policy and Florida Statutes.	14
C.	School Committee	15
1.	Schools are encouraged to form school committees. This committee shall consist ofone teacher for	16
every ten teachers, or major portion thereof, on the school faculty, elected by the school faculty, and	17
the principal of the school or his/her designee. Each committee shall have not less than two (2)	18
teacher members and are encouraged to include representatives of other employee groups. The	19
committee shall elect a chairperson and secretary.	20
2.	The committee shall have the responsibility for identifying and discussing problems unique to that	21
school and for recommending to the principal action to be taken to resolve these problems, but shall	22
not have authority to deal with problems specifically assigned to other designated committees. It	23
is mutually agreed that the intent of this committee is to arrive at a solution of these unique school	24
problems as described above, and that the committee shall in no way limit the administrative	25
authority of the Superintendent	26
3.	School Advisory Councils will not preclude the creation of school committees. Principals are 27 encouraged to use school committees as a tool of the School Advisory Council.	28
D.	School Improvement Plan Review Committee	29
A committee of 5 teachers appointed by the Association President will annually review school	30
improvement plans to identify plans that may require a contract waiver. This will be done before final	31
submission to the Board for district approval.	32
2003-2006 Master Contract	33
Page 43
1
ARTICLE XXVm	2
COMPENSATION	3
A.	Experience	4
1.	As of July 1,2001, up to 30 years of approved, verified teaching experience may be accepted for
new hires. Beginning July 1,2002, up to 30 years of approved, verified teaching experience may	6
be accepted for all instructional employees who were employed prior to July 1,2002. For each year	7
accepted, documentation of a satisfactory performance evaluation must be provided. (Note: Prior	8
to July 1,2001, file maximum years of teaching experience accepted for new hires was 18 years.)	9
Such experience must be full-time experience and gained in schools in the U.S., U.S. territory or	10
under Department of Defense/State jurisdiction that are accredited by an approved accrediting	11
agency at the time of employment This experience may include experience in PreK-12 public	12
schools; experience in private or parochial PreK-12 schools with salary adjusted for verified	13
experience beyond four (4) years effective 7-01 -97. In addition, up to 18 years may include full-time	14
teaching or counseling experience in colleges or universities, recognized as accredited by the state	15
department of education at the time of employment. Salary will be adjusted for this verified college	16
or university experience beyond four (4) years effective 7-01-99. Excluded is adjunct teaching,	17
teaching or counseling performed while attending the college or university as a student, effective 7-	18
01-98. Beginning with the ratification of the 1992-93 contract, full-time experience as a pre-	19
kindergarten or kindergarten teacher in a school where the primary focus is pre-kindergarten or	20
kindergarten may only be approved when such school is under the jurisdiction of and funded by the	21
state department of education. Credit for private school teaching will not be granted for any year(s)	22
during which the employee taught without, at least, a bachelor’s degree.	23
2.	Full-time experience on the salary schedule may also be approved in accordance with Board policy	24
for occupational experience as appropriate for occupational therapists, physical therapists, speech 25 clinicians, social workers, media specialists, behavior management teachers, counselors, and for	26
vocational trades instructors and for up to four (4) years of approved active military service. Such	27
occupational experience approved for degreed vocational instructors, behavior management teachers,	2°
and counselors shall be limited to four (4) years and, for counselors, must have been while 1 contracted under a 310 agreement in a U.S. public school.	30
3.	Effective July 1, 2001, verified administrative experience in a public, private or parochial K-12	... 31
school system may be included in the up-tc-30 years of approved experience for new hires. Such 32 experience must be full-time and gained in schools in the U.S., U.S. territory or under Department	33
of Defense/State jurisdiction that are accredited by an approved accrediting agency at the time of	34
employment. Experience earned as a Clay County administrator may be credited to the teacher for	3 5
placement on the salary schedule.	36
4.	Effective July 1,2001, experience as a Clay County support employee may be credited to the teacher	37
for placement on the salary schedule.	3 8
5.	Also see Article XXIII (Employment Conditions for Eleven and Twelve Month Instructional 39 Employees) regarding experience for School Psychologists.	40
B.	New hires and teachers returning from an approved year leave of absence without pay shall be paid in 41 accordance with the schedule set forth in Appendix IV on the basis of approved teaching experience. 42 C. Under no circumstance shall any teacher be assigned a salary which is at a higher level than that which	43
is equivalent to his/her approved experience.	44
D.	The method of advancement to succeeding levels after the 2001-2002 school year shall be determined	45
through negotiations. There shall be no presumption of status quo with respect to the method of	46
advancement.	47
E.	For the purpose of awarding experience on the salary schedule, a year’ of service shall be full time paid	48
and contracted actual service ofmore than one-half of the 196 or more contracted days in the year service	49
was rendered. For the purpose of providing benefits in this Agreement, full time shall mean a person	50
contracted for a six-tenths (.6) or greater allocated position or for (.6) or more of each consecutive day	51
during the contract period unless otherwise indicated.
Page 44
F.	Receipt of Negotiated Salary Steps and/or other Salary Increase Tied to Teacher Performance:	1
1.	Effective with the 1998-99 school year, any teacher who receives an unsatisfactory rating in the final	2
Clay Assessment System performance evaluation conference ofthe school yearwillreceive the same	3
salary in the next school year as he/she received during the unsatisfactory year of service. Such	4
teacher will be ineligible for negotiated advancement on the applicable salary schedule (i.e. receipt	5
of a step), regardless of stipulations in Section E. above. In addition, the teacher who receives such	6
a rating will be ineligible for receipt of any negotiated increase in 1he actual value of a step on the	7
applicable salary schedule. This salary freeze shall not apply to supplements, degree differentials 8 or special compensation added to the normal contracted salary. This salary freeze will apply for, 9 at least, the school year following the teacher’s receipt of the unsatisfactory evaluation.	10
2.	If, during the frozen salary year, the teacher earns a satisfactory evaluation, he/she will be placed	11
back on the salary schedule for the following year, and, if eligible and bargained, granted a step.	12
3.	If the teacher referenced in 1. above receives satisfactory ratings in the final Clay Assessment	13
System performance evaluation conferences of the two school years following the receipt of an	14
unsatisfactory rating, the teacher will be eligible, the third year, for the salary step and/or step 15 amount that would have applied had the teacher never earned an unsatisfactory rating.	16
G.	ROTC instructors shall be placed in accordance with the special provision as indicated in Appendix IV.	17
H.	Employees assigned to paid supplement positions shall be paid in accordance with said Appendix and	18
all other provisions of this Agreement.	19
I.	Teachers shall be paid in 24 equal payments per year.	20
J.	Terminal Sick Leave:	21
1.	At the employee’s option and upon written request by the employee at the time of separation, the	22
Board shall provide terminal pay to any teacher upon the teacher's non-disciplinary separation from	23
school district employment or enrollment in DROP, or to the teacher’s beneficiaiy if service is 24 terminated by death. Such terminal pay shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) days, and shall 25 be established as outlined below.	26
2.	Employees hired after November 19,2002 shall be eligible for terminal pay as defined under this 27 policy upon completion of three consecutive years of service in Clay County. For employees hired 28 prior to November 19,2002, Clay County service requirements shown in paragraph C.3(a) through	29
C.3 (e) need not be consecutive.	30
3.	For Ihe purposes of determining eligibility for terminal pay, a year of service shall be defined as:	31
paid service rendered in a .6 or greater allocation for a minimum of one day more that half the	32
normal working contract in the fiscal year, provided that eligibility during the first three Clay years	33
sh	all be based on the anniversaiy of the initial date of hire.	34
Terminal pay shall be based on the years of service in Clay County. The employee must have been:	35
a.	Employed as a teacher for atleastthree(3)yearsinClayCounty,inwhichcasetheterminalpay 36 shall be at the rate of 35% times the number of days of accumulated sick leave times the daily	37
rate of pay, not to exceed a total of one hundred twenty (120) days, or	38
b.	Employed as a teacher for more than three (3) years but not more than six (6) years in Clay	39
County, in which case the terminal pay shall be at the rate of 40% time the number of days	40
accumulated sick leave times the daily rate of pay, not to exceed a total of one hundred twenty 41 (120) days, or .	42
c.	Employed as a teacher for more than six (6) years but not more than nine (9) years in Clay	43
County, in which case the terminal pay shall be at the rate of 45% times the number of days of	44
accumulated sick leave times the daily rate of pay, not to exceed a total of one hundred twenty	45
(120)	days, or	,	46
d.	Employed as a teacher for more than nine (9),years but not more than twelve (12) years in Clay	47
County, in which case the terminal pay shall be at the rate of 50% times the number of days of	48
-	accumulated sick leave times the daily rate of pay, not to exceed a total of one hundred twenty	49
(120) days, or	...	50
e.	Employed as a teacher during and after the thirteenth (13th) year in Clay County in which case	51
the terminal pay shall be at the rate of 100% times the number of days of accumulated sick leave	52
times the daily rate of pay, not to exceed a total of one hundred twenty (120) days.	53
Page 45
3.	Effective March 17,2000, anemployeewhoterminatesemploymentthroughreguIarFRS retirement	1
shall deposit 100% of his/her terminal sick and annual leave payments into the Board-approved 2 Qualified Retirement Plan, up to the limits established by the Internal Revenue Service.	3
4.	All employees participating in the Plan since its implementation in Clay County, who are under fifty-	4
five (55) years of age at the time of termination of employment and choose, at the time of 5 termination, to take a cash distribution in the amount of 100% of their respective balance from the Board-approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan and are assessed a withdrawal penalty, shall be	7
reimbursed a percentage of the withdrawal by the Board. This reimbursement is an amount equal	8
to the difference between the current withdrawal penalty and the current Social Security and	9
Medicare combined tax contribution rate. If the withdrawal penalty and/or Social Security and	10
Medicare tax rates change, the amount of reimbursement from the Board shall change accordingly.	11
5.	Effective March 17,2000, an employee who is already enrolled in DROP, or, who elects thereafter	12
to participate in DROP, shall deposit his/her accumulated terminal sick leave pay, for which he/she	13
is eligible, into the Board-approved 401 (a) Qualified Retirement Plan, subj ect to annual contribution	14
limits and according to the following:	15
Payment ~ Maximum Percentage of Accumulated	16
Terminal Sick Leave Days	17
Year 1	20% of 120 days or 20% of the individual’s balance of terminal sick	18
leave, whichever is less	19
Year 2	20% of 120 days or 20% of the individual’s balance of terminal sick	20
leave, whichever is less	21
Year 3	20% of 120 days or 20% of the individual’s balance of terminal sick	22
leave, whichever is less	23
Year 4	20% of 120 days or 20% of the individual’s balance of terminal sick	;
leave, whichever is less	25
Year 5	100% of balance of the individual’s terminal sick leave, not to exceed	26
a total of 120 days	27
(a)	The initial payment shall be made on the last payday in April following the 28 employee’s DROP effective date, or the last payday in April, 2000, for those already	29
enrolled in DROP as of March 17,2000. Subsequent payments shall be made on the	30
last payday in April of each year following the employee’s DROP effective date 31 anniversary.	32
(b)	The rate ofpay used to calculate the amount to be placed in the 401(a) Plan shall be 33 the employee’s daily rate of pay on each payment date.	34
(c)	If an employee elects to participate in DROP for fewer than the sixty-month 35 maximum, or, has fewer than the sixty-month maximum remaining in DROP as of	36
March 17,2000, the percentage of terminal sick leave to be deposited each year will	3 7
change so that, at the end of bisTfer DROP participation, a total of 100% of the	38
maximum allowed contribution of terminal sick leave pay will have been made to the	39
401(a) Plan.	40
(d)	DROP participants may access these terminal sick leave funds prior to termination	41
of employment only through loan procedures outlined in the Plan.
Page 46
K. Employees who, by virtue of enrollment in DROP, have deposited terminal leave payments) into the 1 Board-approved 401 (a) Qualified Retirement Plan, shall continue to deposit such payments as stipulated	2
in paragraph C.5. of this policy, notwithstanding the limitations of paragraph C. This clarification is	3
intended to facilitate the continuation of terminal leave payments to which the Board had committed	4
prior to the November 19,2002 approval of amendments to this policy.	5
L. The Superintendent is authorized to offer an alternate salary schedule when he/she deems it necessary 6 only for the purpose of recruiting for less than full time positions in Speech Pathology, Emotional 7 Handicapped, Occupational Therapy, or Physical Therapy and only to a teacher whose position will be	8
in such critical shortage area. Such alternate schedule will be 1.15 times the hourly equivalent of the	9
appropriate bachelors salary schedule step plus degree differential, if applicable. Teachers contracted	10
under such schedule shall be exempt from die provisions of Article VII, sections A and B (preparation	11
time) and Article VI, sections A and Bl (duty free lunch).	12
13
2003-2006 Master Contract	14
15
16
Page 47
ARTICLE XXIX TERM OF AGREEMENT
1
2 ■
This Agreement is signed and ratified on July 28. 2003_________________________. This Agreement shall 3
be effective from the date of ratification and shall continue in effect through June 30, 2006. All economic	4
issues shall be retroactive to the beginning of the 2003-2004 school year. The parties agree that the articles	5
pertaining to compensation, supplements, insurance, term of agreement, any two (2) issues of the Board’s	6
choosing, and any waivers and approvals agreed to by the Contract Monitoring Committee may be reopened	7
for negotiations for the 2004-2005 school year by March 1, 2004. Every effort will be made to begin	8
negotiating by May 1. Issues for the purpose of this article must be specific, narrowly defined and clearly	9
stated so that the problem giving rise to the issue is precisely understood by both parties. In addition, articles,	10
mutually identified as having been impacted by legislative changes may be reopened. Failure to identify the	11
two (2) issues to be reopened each school year as stipulated above will result in effective closure f	12
negotiations for that school year. This Agreement shall not be extended orally and it is expressly	13
understood that it shall expire on the date indicated.	14
CLAY COUNTY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
Preside
SCHOOL DISTRICT OF CLAY COUNTY
15
16
18
19
2003-2006 Master Contract	20
Page 48
APPENDIX I
Florida Education Association
213 South Adams Street /’’"'Miassee, FL 32301
i 1
V....4
SCHOOL OR WORK SITE
118 North Monroe Street Tallahassee, FL 32399-1700
LOCAL ASSOCIATION
		
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
REG UNEERV CNTY LOCAL DET BLDG
SEE CODES ON BACK OF FORM
ASSN	MEMBER SHIP COT®	ANNUAL PAYMENT
NATIONAL		
STATE		
UNEERV		
LOCAL*		
INITIAL YEAR TOTAL		
(subject 'CODE
rosmoN CODE
LEVEL CODE
ETHNIC CODE
METHOD OF PAYMENT CODE ■
SEX CODE
DATE OF BIRTH
REG. VOTER
CODE .
PARTY APRIL CODE
PRECINCT NO
9 Payroll Deduction. I herdry agree to pay, and authorize my employer to deduct, the dues and assessments described above and as are certified by Hie Association to the School Board for each year thereafter from my salary and direct and authorize my employer to pay such amounts to the Association in accordance with payroll deduction procedures in effect; provided, however, I may cancel my membership and tins authorization by providing 30 days' written notice to the School Board and Association notifying them of such revocation as provided by law.
□ Cash Member. I hereby agree to pay to the Association the dues and assessments described above and as may be prescribed by the Association and certified to the School Board for each year thereafter.
MEMBER'S SIGNATURE	DATE
LOCAL ASSOCIATION REPRESENTATIVE
(2000-01 FORM)
Page 49
APPENDIX n
CLAY COUNTY SCHOOLS OFFICIAL GRIEVANCE FORM	Office Use Only Case No:	 Initials:		
Grievant(s):		 School/Department:	.		
Position:	School Year:			
Level I (Immediate Supervisor/County Wide Supervisor) A. Date of Alleged Grievance:	Relates to Article(s)		
B. Statement of Alleged Grievance:		
		
		
		
C. Relief Sought:		
		
		
D. I certify the statements made above are accurate and that the grievance rules outlined in the Master Contract have been followed and understood.		
Signature of Employee(s)	Date	
E. Disposition: Call Human Resources Department for Case Number before replying:	, Date of Formal Meeting:			 Case No.:  	 Results and Statement of Relief by Supervisor:		
		
		
		
Signature	Title Copies: (1) Next Level (Original) (2) Association (3)Grievant (4) Human Resources		Date
Level II (Superintendent - Human Resources Department) F. Dates: Hearing Date Notification:	Formal Hearing:		
G. Disposition:	'				
		
		
Signature	Title Copies: (l^TilefOriginal) (2) Association (3)-Grievant	(4) Supervisor Level I		Date
Level LU: (Arbitration)		Date Stamp Here
H. Person Making Request:  			Association Rep. Yes / No I. Date of Request:	(Received by Human Resources/Superintendent)			'	—J
MIS 24011 Revised: 7/3/01
Page 50
APPENDIX mA
CLAY COUNTY SCHOOLS	APPLICATION TO TRANSFER
SECTION I - APPLICANT
AME:	SOCIAL SECURITY NO.:	— *
PRESENT SCHOOL:	DATE OF APPLICATION:	
PRESENT ASSIGNMENT: 							 SCHOOL/DEPT. SOUGHT:	■ ■■ ■ ■ . ■
ASSIGNMENT SOUGHT:	CHECK ONLY ONE: F	Posted Vacancy’
		Summer Pool
REASON FOR TRANSFER REQUEST: 			
DATE OF LAST TRANSFER: 			 SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT: 		
SECTION II - RECEIVING SUPERVISOR
I-] approved n denied	. .	.	DATE:	,	■
RECEIVING SUPERVISOR SIGNATURE	
EFFECTIVE DATE (START DATE)	DOE JOB CODE	JOB IF APPROVED GIVE BUDGET CODES FOR POSITION BEING FILLED: SUBJECT/JOB TITLE:	LOCATOR NUMBER
COST CTR FUND FUNCT. OBJ. PROJ. PROG.	.	•• NAME OF PERSON BEING REPLACED: 	 □ NEW POSITION My signature certifies that no conflict- of interest, as defined by Board policy 2.02, is created by this recommended action. Principal/Director/Asst. Supt.:	Date:	
	
SECTION III - LOSING SUPERVISOR
□ APPROVED □ DENIED '	 DATE: 
....	'	’ LOSING SUPERVISOR SIGNATURE	.	.
LAST WORK DATE	DOE JOB CODE	JOB LOCATOR NUMBER
Does applicant receive a supplement? Yes____/No____ If yes, will applicant keep present
supplement in your school? Yes___/No If no, attach resignation letter with Transfer
Form. If yes, list supplements applicant will keep in your school:. .
IF APPROVED, GIVE BUDGET CODES FOR VACANCY CREATED:
   	  SUBJECT/JOB TITLE:	.
COST CTR FUND FUNCT. OBJ. PROJ. PROG.
SECTION IV - DISTRICT APPROVAL/DENIAL
As the Supe went to the submitted t the 	.. □ APPROVED COPIES TO:	ri a o	ntendent's designee, I hereb i>ove named individual pendin the Superintendent for recpm 	 Board m Q DENIED .	,	- SIGNATURE ASSOCIATION	F RECEIVING SUPERVISOR	Q	y authorize the employmer g board action. His/het*' mendation to the School I eeting. F.S.230.33(7) anc DATE LOSING SUPERVISOR APPLICANT	it of and salary payname will be ioard for approval at F.S.230.23(5)- ; RECEIVED
24059 REV 10/9/95
Page 51
APPENDIX IHA, Continued
INSTRUCTIONS: EMPLOYEE (See applicable contract provisions.)
A.	Application to Transfer to Posted Position. (Other than summer pool.)
1.	Complete each item in Section I.
.	2. Forward copy 3 to the Human Resources Division and copy 4 to the Association.
3.	Contact the Receiving Principal/Supervisor.	,
4.	Take the original and 2nd copy to the Receiving Principal/Supervisor.
. Option: You may attach resume* or job qualifications to the form.
5.	The Receiving Principal/Supervisor will retain the original and 2nd copy regardless of whether the transfer is approved or disapproved.
6.	The Principal's/Supervisor*s action is final. The transfer request terminates if a negative determination is made.
B.	Application to Transfer for Listing in Summer Pool
1.	Complete Section I. You may list a School/Department Sought or leave blank.
2.	Forward the original, copy 2 and copy 3 to the Human Resources Division, and copy 4 to the Association.
3.	After the Human Resources Division returns the original and copy 2 with instructions, pursue the transfer in this manner:
. a. Contact the Receiving Principal/Supervisor.'	’
b.	Take the original and the 2nd copy to the Receiving Principal/Supervisor.	'
c.	The Receiving Principal/Supervisor will retain the original and 2nd copy regardless of whether the transfer is approved or disapproved.	v
4.	The Principal*s/Supervisor's action is final. The transfer request terminates at this point if a negative determination is made.
Note: A new form must be initiated if a request has been denied and further consideration is requested.
INSTRUCTIONS: PRINCIPAL/SUPERVISOR (See applicable contract provisions.)
A.	Receiving Principal/Supervisor
1.	When contacted by an employee for a transfer, give the employee due consideration (see contract).
2.	Retain the original and 2nd copy as presented by the employee. Complete Section II if approved by you. and if denied, mark only denied and sign.	.
3.	If approved by you. forward both copies to the Losing Principal/Supervisor. If denied by you. forward both copies to the Human Resources Division.
4.	Notify all applicants in writing of action taken.
B.	Losing Principal/Supervisor
1.	If the Receiving Principal forwards approved transfer forms (original and 2nd copy) to you. complete Section III completely if you approve, or if denied, only mark denied and sign.
2.	Approve you approve or deny the transfer, forward both copies to the Human Resources Division.
3.	Notify your employee of action taken.
Page 52
w 5^*
APPENDIX IUB
1
CLAY COUNTY SCHOOL BOARD	2
RECALL PROCEDURES	3
/
The following Phases represent the order of consideration for filling vacancies in accordance with tire Master	4
Contract with the Clay County Education Association.	5
PHASE I (Approximately April 15.2004)	6
In-Countv Transfers:	Applies only to transfers in which an individual is seeking to change his/her school	7
or cost center.	8
NOTE: The first two week posting of a vacancy is not open for transfer to Annual Contract persons who	9
are in their first or second year of continuous service in Clay County.	10
PHASE H (Approximately May 1 - 15.2004)	11
Involuntary Transfers: Applies only to persons listed on the involuntary transfer list (unassigned personnel).	12
Consideration is given in the following priority order:	13
1.	PSC/continuing contract in field	14
2.	PSC/continuing contract out of field	15
3.	Qualified in-field annual contract personnel recommended for PSC for next school year.	16
4.	Annual contract out of field with prior out of field requirements satisfied for the current year	17
4	and recommended for PSC for next school year.	18
NOTE: Unassigned personnel listed in 1-4 above have priority for placement back in the school in 19 which they were identified, in the event a vacancy becomes available in that school in a field in	20
which they are certified.	21
■	22
NOTE: Unassigned personnel not assigned during this phase will be offered positions in order noted. 23
AND:	24
Return From Leave:	Applies only to persons identified on the Request to Return From Leave List in the	25
following priority, as indicated on the list itself:	26
1.	PSC/continuing contract in field	27
2.	PSC/continuing contract out of field	28
3.	In-field Annual Contract personnel recommended for PSC for next school year.	29
PHASE IH	30
Regular In County Transfers and OualifiedNew Candidates:	Applies to any qualified in county transfers	31
and qualified new candidates. Includes first and second year Annual Contract personnel recommended 32 for reappointment. These Annual Contract personnel may be recommended immediately in Phase HI. 33 2003-2006 Master Contract	34
Page 53
APPENDIX DIC CLAY COUNTY SCHOOL BOARD POSTING PROCEDURES FOR SUPPLEMENTAL POSITIONS
1
2 3
The following steps reflect the procedures required for posting supplemental positions for the next school	4
year in accordance with the Transfer Article in the Master Contract with the Clay County Education	5
Association.	6
1.	INITIAL SCHOOL POSTING (For the Following School Year)	7
Each school must post all of its supplemental positions within the affected school.	8
Posting period: Two weeks between April 15 and May 1	9
2.	FOLLOW UP POSTING OF UNFILLED POSITIONS (Secondary Only)	10
Secondary schools must post certain unfilled positions* in all schools. If posting is by V- Mail	11
(electronic mail), a printed copy must be posted by the school receiving the electronic mail message.	12
* Only unfilled positions that are not unique to the school are to be posted. Unfilled positions	13
such as 'Department Head' shall not be posted in other schools. Unfilled positions such as	14
'coach' would be posted.	15
Posting period: Two weeks	16
3.	ADDITIONAL FOLLOWUP POSTING OF UNFILLED POSITIONS (Secondary Only)	17
If positions described in step two above remain unfilled after the followup posting, these positions	18
mu	st be posted again as follows:	19
Th	e school must either -	20
a.	Request the Division of Human Resources to post the position attached to a regular position 21 vacancy in Phase I (continuing through Phase IV)	22
-OR-	23
b.	Request the Division of Human Resources to post the position exclusive of any other regular 24 position in Phase I (continuing through Phase IV)	25
-OR-	26
c.	Repost the position within each school in the district.	27
Po	sting period: Two weeks or the regular required period for the Phase.	28
NOTE 1:	Positions may be filled within or outside of the district if no in-house or in-county applicants	29
have been identified through step 3.	30
NOTE 2:	No posting is required after June 30.	31
NOTE 3:	For 10,11 and 12-month Specialist positions with allocated supplements	attached, no separate	32
supplement posting is required.	33
2003-2006 Master Contract	34
Page 54
APPENDIX mD	1
GUIDELINES OF THE SOUTHERN ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGES AND SCHOOLS	2
The method utilized by the School Board of Clay County to determine teacher staffing allocations may be 3 found in the office of the Deputy Superintendent The allocations resulting from this process were modified	4
for special programs. Actual sizes of classes can not be presumed from a strict interpretation of the process.	5
The Clay County School Board reserves the right as outlined in and within the guidelines listed in Article 6 V Management’s Rights and Responsibilities and Article XVI Class Size contained herein to set unilaterally	7
standards of service, the process not withstanding. Any dispute arising out of or as the result of the use of 8 this process shall be referred to the class size committee as outlined in Article XVI Class Size.	9
SACS Standards for staffing secondary schools allow the following class loads:	10
4.9.5 The maximum studentperiodsper week per classroom teacher shall be 750	11
except that classroom teachers ofROTC, typing, physical education, and	12
musicalperforming groups may teach 1,000students per -week. Exceptions	13
may be granted -with prior approval of the state committee.	14
SACS Standards for staffing elementary schools allow the following class loads:	15
28.b. Minimum assignments of teachers and aides in self-contained classrooms	16
shall be as follows:	17
Classes	Enrollment	Teacher(s)	Aide(s)		18
Kindergarten	1-25		1	0	19
	26-30		1	1	20
Primary Level	1-28		1	0	21
					22
(Grades 1-3)	29-33		1	1	23
Intermediate Level	1-32		1	0	24
(Grades 4-8)					25
28.c.	The class load of teachers in non-self-contained classes shall average no	26
more than 30 students in grades 1-3 or 32 students in grades 4-8.	27
Exceptions may be made in art, music, and physical education classes.	28
2003-2006 Master Contract 29
Page 55
APPENDIX HIE CLAY COUNTY SCHOOLS APPLICATION FOR SHORT TERM MILITARY LEAVE
I Instructions
INSTRUCTIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EMPLOYEES:
“...When school employees enter voluntarily into active duty in any of the armed services for temporary duty, training duty, or extended periods of service, military leave may be granted at the discretion of the school board, and except in unusual cases, shall not be given to members of the instructional and administrative staff at a time when they are expected to be engaged in the work of their profession...” (SBER 6A-1.083)
PLEASE ATTACH A COPY OF YOUR ORDERS AND REQUEST SIGNATURE OF YOUR UNIT COMMANDER BELOW.
II Request
Please complete information requested.
Name:			.Social Security #:					
School/Dept:			_Position:		—————————		Date:		
Date leave begins	/	/	Time:	am	pm
Date leave ends			/	/	Time:	am	pm
Date returning			/		/		 Time: 		am 			pm
Destination/Location__________________________________________________________________________________:_______
Purpose/Reason_______________________________________;;_______________________________________________________
I understand the provisions of the leave requested and certify statements made are correct and accurate. I understand that my lea ve can be granted only with prior approval of my Supervisor and Superintendent.
Signature of Employee	Date
III Unit Commander 
I hereby attest that the above named individual has not volunteered for this duty/training, and, if such orders are for training, I attest that no other training opportunities are available for this individual that meet the requirements of the State Board of Education rule 6A-1.083.
Commander of Reserve/National Guard Unit	Date
IV Approval
		
Signature of Supervisor		Date
Signature of Superintendent/Designee Keyed by		 Date__						——-	-	Date
COPIES: White-Human Resources Yellow-Supervisor Pink-Employee MIS 14183 2/26/2000
Page 56
1
2
APPENDIX IV A SALARY SCHEDULE 2003-2004
A. Regular Bachelor's Schedule			3
	Years of Approved	Bachelor's Level	4
Step	Experience	Salary Amount (196 Day)	5
			6
A	0to3	30,000	7
B	4 to 5	30,500	8
C	6	31,000	9
D	7	31,500	10
E	8	32,000	11
F	9	32,500	12
G	10	33,000	13
H	11	33,500	14
I	12	34,000	15
J ’	13	34,500	.	16
K	14	35,100	17
L	15	35,750	18
M	16	36,400	19
N	17	37,125	20
O	18	37,900	21
P	19	38,700	22
Q	20	39,550	23
R	21	40,475	24
S	22	41,500	25
T	23	42,600	26
U	24	43,715	27
V	25	44,830	28
w	26	45,955	29
X	27	47,080	30
Y	28	48,205	31
Z	29	49,530	32
AA	30+	50,855	33
*NOTE: Returning teachers (with continuous Clay County experience) and new teachers shall be	34
assigned a salary step in accordance with the Article on Compensation and in accordance with	3 5
approved experience occurring prior to July 1, 2003.	36
B.	A Clay County teacher returning in 2003-2004 from a Board approved leave of absence shall be placed	37
on the salary schedule based on the approved experience credited to him/her at the beginning of his/her	38
extended leave of absence.	39
C.	A supplement will be given to returning teachers who were on step 30 in 2002-2003 and earned a year 40 of experience credit. The equal installment supplement ($1745) will be paid during the 2003-2004 year.	41
D.	The salaries indicated shall be prorated based on the length and type of contract held by the respective 42 teacher.	43
-	44
E.	Instructional personnel who have earned the status of "exemplary" on their evaluations for 2003-2004	45
school year will be awarded the appropriate compensation as designated by the legislature. This	46
compensation will be prorated based on the length and type of the contract held by the respective teacher.	47
2003-2006 Master Contract	48
Page 57
1
2
APPENDIX IV B SCHOOL PSYCHOLOGISTS - 2003-2004
Step	Bachelor's Level Salary Amount (196 Day)	Bachelor's Level Salary Amount (216 Day)	Bachelor’s Level Salary Amount (260 Day)	3- 5
A-0	33,000	36,367	43,776	6
B-l	33,500	36,918	44,439	7
C-2	34,000	37,469	45,102	8
D-3	34,500	38,020	45,765	9
E-4	35,100	38,682	46,561	10
F-5	35,750	39,398	47,423	11
G-6	36,400	40,114	48,286	12
H-7	- 37,125	40,913	49,247	13
1-8	37,900	41,767	50,276	14
J-9	38,700	42,649	51,337	15
K-10	39,550	43,586	52,464	16
L-ll	40,475	44,605	53,691	17
M-12	41,500	45,735	55,051	18
N-13	42,600	46,947	56,510	19
0-14	43,715	48,176	57,989	20
P-15	44,830	49,404	59,468	21
Q-16	45,955	50,644	60,961	22
R-17	47,080	51,884	62,453	23
S-18	48,205	53,124	. . 63,945	24
T-19	49,530	54,584	65,703	25
U-20+	50,855	56,044	-	67,461	26
A.	All returning psychologists with continuous Clay County experience and new psychologists shall 27 be assigned a salary step in accordance with the Articles on Compensation and Employment 28 Conditions for 11 & 12monthInstructionalEmployeesandinaccordancewithapprovedexperience 29 occurring prior to July 1,2003.	30
2.	A Clay County psychologist returning in 2003-2004, from a Board approved leave of absence shall	31
be placed on Ihe salary schedule based on the psychologist’s equivalent placement at the beginning	32
of his extended leave of absence.	33
3.	The salaries indicated shall be prorated based on the length and type of contract held by the 34 respective school psychologist and in accordance with the Article on Employment Conditions for 35 11 and 12 month Instructional Employees.	36
4.	Instructional personnel who have earned the status of "exemplary" on their evaluations for 2003-	37
2004 school year will be awarded the appropriate compensation as designated by the legislature.	38
This compensation will be prorated based on the length and type of the contract held by the 39 respective teacher.	40
5.	A supplement will be given to returning psychologists who were on step 20 in 2002-2003 and earned	41
a year of experience credit. The equal installment supplement ($1745) shall be prorated based on	42
the length and type of contract held by the respective school psychologist, and in accordance with	43
the Article on Employment Conditions for l landl2 month Instructional Employees and paid during	44
the 2003-2004 year.	45
46
2003-2006 Master Contract	47
Page 58
1
APPENDIX IV D	2
SALARIES - MISCELLANEOUS	3
A.	Summer School Compensation	.	4
Classroom teachers working during the summer break shall be paid at the same rate of pay as during the	5
school year preceding the summer term and will remain in effect until the completion of summer school.	6
B.	Other Compensation	7
In the case of in-service workshops, curriculum development, or other projects approved as part of a 8 grant, entitlement, or intergovernmental agreement, teachers may be paid in accordance with the amount	9
allocated for the project, grant, or agreement.	10
C.	In-service Workshops	11
1.	When approved by the Superintendent or his/her designee, instructional personnel attending	12
workshops after the normal school day will be paid a stipend of $10 per hour, except as otherwise	13
provided in this contract.	14
2.	Professional Development Advisory Council members who are required to meet beyond the normal	15
school day or beyond the scheduled day, shall receive a supplement equal to that paid for in-service	16
workshops.	17
D.	New Teachers	18
All new teachers whose employment begins at the start of the school year, including those who will be	19
enrolled in the new teacher orientation program shall be paid at the rate of $10.00 per hour for their	20
participation in the workshops held prior to the first day for teachers.	21
E.	Other Programs (Other than 310 Agreements)	22
Teachers employed in other programs beyond the scheduled day or during the summer shall be paid as 23 follows:	24
1.	Regularly contracted teachers in Clay County - hourly rate based on their 196-day contract salary.	25
2.	Teachers not under regular contract in Clay County - hourly rate based on the beginning (0 years)	2 —
salary on the adopted teacher salary schedule.	2.
3.	Regularly contracted teachers in Clay County may be assigned on a volunteer basis the responsibility	28
of utilizing their scheduled unassigned preparation period as defined in Article VH, sections A and	29
B for the purpose of covering classes of teachers who are absent. Such teachers shall be paid an 30 additional salary of $10.00 per hour. All efforts shall be made by the administration to secure	31
regular substitute teachers in such instances. Certified teachers who volunteer to utilize their	32
planning periods to cover the classes of early intervention/pre k teachers shall be paid $ 10 per half	33
hour.	34
F.	Adult and Community Education Teachers	35
1.	FTE Courses	36
Asof July 1,1999, Teachers ofFTE Courses which require certificated teachers shall be paid at their	37
hourly base rate based on the 196 day contract salary for regularly contracted teachers in Clay	38
County up to a maximum of $20/hour. Effective January 29,2001, the maximum hourly rate shall	39
increase to $22/hour. Teachers ofFTE courses in 1998-99 whose pay was greater than $20/hour	40
in 1998-99 shall be frozen at the 1998-99 hourly rate as long as they continuously teach adult	41
education FTE classes. Teachers who are not regularly contracted to teach in Clay County will be	42
placed on the beginning (0 year) salary on the adopted schedule for teachers. Teachers who have	43
retired or resigned with satisfactory evaluation from the Clay County School System shall continue	44
to receive the base rate based on their last 196-day contract salary (minus supplements) up to a	45
maximum of $20/hour or the beginning (0 year) salary on the adopted schedule for teachers,	46
whichever is greater. Effective January 29, 2001, the maximum hourly rate shall increase to	47
$22/hour or the beginning (0 year) salary on the adopted schedule for teachers, whichever is greater.	48
2003-2006 Master Contract
Page 60
1
2
APPENDIX IV C	3
SALARIES - DEGREE DIFFERENTIALS	4
Degree Differentials shall be as follows:	5
A. 196 Day Teachers (See Below For School Psychologists)	6
Master’s or higher degrees reflected on official transcripts	7
Master’s Degree	$1700	8
“Specialist Degree	$2400	9
Doctorate Degree	$3000	10
B.	196 Day School Psychologists	11
Note: To receive the differential, the official transcript must reflect field of School Psychology and the	12
appropriate level for the differential.	13
Master’s or higher degrees reflected on official transcripts	14
Master’s Degree		$1700	15	
	Specialist Degree	$2400	(Must hold Specialist Degree or equivalent Planned	16
			Program in the field of Counseling or Psychology)	17
	Doctorate Degree	$3000	(Must hold Doctorate degree)	18
C.	Teachers or School Psychologists With Contracts Over 196 Days: Amount Listed Above Will Be Pro......... 19
Rated Based On The Actual Number Of Contract Days.	20
D.	. It is die responsibility of the individual claiming eligibility for degree differential compensation to supply	21
all information required by the Human Resources Division to establish eligibility.	22
E.	The Master’s or higher degree must be granted from a college or university recognized as accredited by	23
the State department of education, at the time the degree was granted.	24
25
2003-2006 Master Contract
26
27
Page 59
1
2.	Teachers of Fee Base Noncredit Courses (Community Education):	2
Actual amount based on fee charged per course.	3
$ 8.00 per hour	4
$10.00 per hour	5
$12.00 per hour	6
$15.00 per hour	7
$18.00 per hour	8
$22.00 per horn-	9
More than $22.00 per hour if recommended by the Supervisor, based on the fee	10
charged, course demands, and Board approval.	11
3.	Teachers working in an adult and community education program during a summer term shall be paid	12
at the same rate of pay established in this subsection which was in effect during the school year	13
preceding the summer term and will remain in effect until the completion of summer school.	14
G. Special Compensation	15
1.	Certified or licensed Occupational and Physical Therapists shall be assigned a salary step and	16
amount from the following schedule, in accordance with the Articles on Compensation and	17
Employment Conditions for 11 and 12 month Instructional Employees, and prorated on the 18 employees’ actual number of contract days.	19
Step	Approved Experience	Salary (196 Davs)	20
A	0	37,269	21
B	1	41,927	22
C	2	46,585	23
D	3	49,690	24
E	4	52,797	25
F	5-6	55,902	26
G	7-9	57,578	27
H	10+	59,305	28
NOTE: In addition to experience granted as a full-time occupational or physical therapist, experience	29
may also be granted for full time experience as a certified occupational therapist assistant or a 30 licensed physical therapist assistant Two years of verified work as an assistant shall be	31
equivalent to one year on the OT/PT salary schedule. Increments of less than one year shall not	32
be applied to the schedule.	33
34 Instructional personnel who have earned the status of "exemplary" on their evaluations for	35
2003-2004 school year will be awarded the appropriate compensation as designated by the	36
legislature. This compensation will be prorated based on the length and type of the contract held	3 7
by the respective teacher.	38
39
2.	Employees who fill the following allocated positions shall receive the percent indicated applied to	40
the base salary (0 year experience, Level A) of the teachers Salary Schedule, rounded to the nearest	41
whole dollar, and prorated to the length of the respective contract length added to the respective	42
normal contracted salary.	43
Speech Clinician............. T/TT/tv.:,........................  10.00	44
; ?	45
- EH Self Contained, SED, PMH, Autistic, TMH, VI, HI,	46
PI, and Adaptive P.E..........................................    8.00	47
48
Page 61
m	Applied Technology for the Handicapped, allocated to work	1
full-tnne with students classified as EH Self-Contained, SED,	2
PMH, Autistic, TMH, VI or PI.........................................8.00	3
m This additional compensation will be paid in 24 equal installments	4
for in-field certified teachers. Upon completion of 6 hours toward	5
certification requirements, an out-of-field teacher will receive the	6
additional compensation, paid as a supplement, in one payment	7
for that year.	8
9
2003-2006 Master Contract	10
Page 62
1
2
APPENDIX IVE SALARIES -ROTC INSTRUCTORS
A.	196-daycontractswillbeissuedinaccordancewithlawsgovemingteachercontracts. In any year during	3
which the Board-adopted school calendar does not include enough teacher work days to comply with 4 statutory requirements for the ROTC program, ROTC instructors will be contracted to work the 5 /	necessary number of extra days immediately preceding pre-planning and/or following the post planning	6
session.	7
B.	Salaries will be based on the greatest amount of 1 or 2 below and will be paid in 24 bi-monthly 8 installments.	9
1.	The 10-month teachers' salary schedule for 2003-2004, or	10
2.	(a) The annual (12-month) salary submitted by the U.S. Navy based on the active duty pay less the	11
retired pay valid as of August 1, 1988 for those ROTC personnel employed as of September 1,	12
1982, provided there is no break in service with Clay County, or	13
(b	) 10/12 of the annual salary submitted by the U.S. Navy based on the active duty pay less the	14
retired pay for those ROTC personnel employed subsequent to September 1, 1982 and those	15
ROTC personnel who break service in Clay County and are reemployed subsequent to	16
September 1,1982.	17
C.	If 10/12 of the annual pay as reported by the Navy (school amount) ever exceeds the annual pay actually	18
rendered by the School Board, the contract and pay of the affected person identified in subparagraph	19
B2(a) above shall be changed to reflect 12/12 of that reported by the Navy prorated from the effective	20
date. This paragraph shall have no force or effect for those personnel identified in subparagraph B2(b)	21
above.	22
D.	Summer school employment will be contingent on need and pay will be in addition to that agreed upon	23
in Item B above. Summer pay will be based on the established rate at the time of the summer contract	24
in the same manner as figured in Step B above and this additional time will be reported to the Navy as	25
such.	26
E.	All vouchers will be co-signed by the County Office and all checks for reimbursement will be sent	27
directly to the Office of the Superintendent. The Navy shall be notified of this by the officers of the	28
school NJROTC units.	29
2003-2006 Master Contract	30
Page 63
1 •
2
APPENDIX TV F SALARIES/PROFESSIONAL ASSIGNMENT - ATHLETIC DIRECTORS
A.	216 day contracts will be issued in accordance with laws governing teacher contracts. The salary shall 3 be as provided below.	4
B.	The athletic director may be paid up to three (3) athletic supplements (at 196 day rate) as provided in 5 Appendix V, if classes requiring planning and evaluation are not assigned in accordance with Section	t
C below. Up to two (2) athletic supplements may be paid if classes requiring planning and evaluation	7
are assigned in accordance with Section C below.	8
C.	The principal of the high school at which the athletic director is located may assign a teaching load of	9
up to four (4) classes requiring planning and evaluation. At least one-half of these assigned classes must	10
require planning and evaluation. Preparation/Conference time as provided under Article VII shall not 11 be compensable time under the terms of this section. $1000 shall be deducted from the contract salary 12 of the athletic director for each of these classes not assigned.	13
D.	Salary Schedule - Bachelor’s Degree (Higher Degree Differential - See Appendix IVC)	14
Step	Years of Approved - Experience	216 Davs *	15 16 17
A	0to3	37,061	18
B	4 to 5	37,612	19
C	6	38,163	20
D	7	38,714	21
E	8	39,265	22
F	9	39,816	23
G	10	40,367	24
H	11	40,918	25
I	12	41,469	-	26
J	13	42,020	27
K	14	42,682	2r
L	15	43,398	
M	16	44,114	30
N	17	44,913	31
O	18	45,767	32
P	19	46,649	33
Q	20	47,586	34
R	21	48,605	35
S	22	49,735	36
T	23	50,947	37
U	24	52,176	38
V	25	53,404	39
W	26	54,644	40
X	27	55,884	41
¥	28	57,124	42
Z	29	58,584	43
AA	30+	60,044	44
* Includes $4000 for teaching four classes as indicated in C. above	.	45
2003-2006 Master Contract 46
NOTE: Athletic directors shall be assigned a salary step in accordance with the Article on Compensation and in accordance with approved experience occurring prior to July 1,2003.
47
48
E.	Returning teachers (with continuous Clay County experience) and new teachers shall be assigned a salary
Page 64
step in accordance with the Article on Compensation and in accordance with approved experience 1 occurring prior to July 1,2003.	2
F.	A Clay County athletic director returning in 2003-2004 from a Board approved leave of absence shall	3
be placed on the salary schedule based on the approved experience credited to him at the beginning of	4
}	his extended leave of absence.	5
G.	Instructional personnel who have earned the status of "exemplary" on their evaluations for 2003-2004	6
school year will be awarded the appropriate compensation as designated by the legislature. This	7
compensation will be prorated based on the length and type of the contract held by the respective teacher.	8
H.	A supplement will be given to returning athletic directors who were on step 30 in 2002-2003 and earned	9
a year of experience credit. The equal installment supplement ($1745) will be prorated based on an 11	10
month contract and paid during the 2003-2004 year.	11
12
,z
2003-2006 Master Contract	13
Page 65
I
APPENDIX V	2
SALARIES - SUPPLEMENT SCHEDULE	3
Note: The percent indicated is applied to base salary of $30,000. Salaries are to be rounded to the nearest dollar. Only activities allocated by the school board are eligible for a supplement All activities must be performed or -conducted in accordance with job descriptions adopted by the school board.	6
7
ACADEMIC SUPPLEMENTS:	8
The following supplements will be allocated to the respective schools as a maximum amount which shall be 9 used to pay one or more individuals sponsoring the indicated activity. Unless otherwise indicated, 10 supplemental salary is to be paid in equal installments. Classroom Teacher Department Heads, ESE, Resource 11 Department Heads, and Specialists are Academic Coordinators. All other supplements are Extracurricular 12 Activities. "END" supplements will be paid upon completion of the activity and written recommendation of 13 the principal. Any production must be performed before the public and will consist of a foil length play. 14
Supplement	Method of Payment		Per Cent	15
Academic Coach, Local School	END	5.4	16
Academic Coach, District	Equal	7.5	17
Activities Program Coordinator JH	Equal	13.0	18
Annual Staff HS	Equal	8.0	19
Annual Staff, JH	Equal	6.5	20
Band Director, HS (Minimum of two major performances;	Equal	13.5	21
football games; district marching festival; solo and			22
ensemble; concert band and state festivals when applicable.)			23
Band Director, JH (Minimum of four performances; solo and	Equal	7.5		
ensemble; district concert festival; home football games)			
Band End of Year Supplement	END	1.5	26
(Two additional major festivals - three community events			27
equals one major event)			28
Bayard Point Sponsor	Equal	4.1	29
Choral Director HS/JH	Equal	7.5	30
(Minimum of four separate performances per year;			31
district solo and ensemble and concert festivals)			32
Choral Director End of Year Supplement (Two additional	END	1-5	33
major festivals: 3 community events equal one major event)			34
Co-Curricular Club	Equal	4.1	35
Core Team Leader Elementary	Equal	1.5	36
Core Team Leader Secondary	Equal	2.75	37
Dance Team Sponsor HS	Equal	6.0	38
Dance or Drill Team Sponsor JH	Equal	4.7	39
40
Page 66
Supplement
Method of Payment
Per Cent
1
Debate Team (Must include formal competitions outside of school setting)	END	3.1	2 3
Department Head (3-5 teachers)	Equal	6.0	4
Department Head (6-10 teachers)	Equal	6.5	5
Department Head (11-16 teachers)	Equal	7.0	6
Department Head (17-20 teachers)	Equal	7.5	7
Department Head (21 or more teachers)	Equal	8.0	8
Directing Teacher of School Interns	END	3.0	9
Director of Junior or Senior Class Play (Per major performance)	END	1.3	10
Discretionary Supplement	END	1.5	11
(All levels^identified by the school through the School			12
Improvement Plan)			13
District Music	END	3.6	14
Drama HS	END	6.0	15
Drama JH	END	3.1	16
Drill Team Sponsor HS	Equal	6.0	17
Educational Technology Advisor Elementary	Equal	6.0	18
Educational Technology Advisor Secondary	Equal	8.0	19
Elementary Performance/Production	END	1.5	20
(Music Teachers Will Be Given Priority: minimum of two separate productions			21
And includes planning, practice, advertising, etc.)			22
Note: This sumlement mav be used a maximum of three times per school			23
Elementary Track Meet Coordinator	END	3.6	24
Flag Corps Sponsor	Equal	3.2	25
Freshman Class Sponsor (and 8* grade at GCSJH)	Equal	2.6	26
Future Educators Club	Equal	2.75	27
Junior Class Sponsor	Equal	4.75	28
Majorette Sponsor	Equal	3.2	29
Math Field Day Coordinator, District	END	3.6	30
Math Team (Must include formal competitions outside school setting)	END	3.1	31
National Beta Club Sponsor	Equal	4.1	32
National Junior High Honor Society Sponsor	Equal	3.1	33
National Honor Society Sponsor	Equal	4.1	34
35
36
Page 67
Supplement	Method of Payment	Per Cent	1
Newspaper Staff HS	Equal	4.1	2
Newspaper Staff JH	Equal	2.5		3
Peer Teacher (With portfolio requirement)	Equal	6.0	
Safety Patrol Elementary	Equal	2.1	5
Science Fair Coordinator, District	END	6.0	6
Science Fair Coordinator, Local School	END	3.6	7
Senior Class Sponsor	Equal	4.25	8
Sophomore Class Sponsor	Equal	2.75	9
Specialist, 10-Month	Equal	6.0	10
Specialist, 11-Month	Equal	6.6	11
Specialist, 12-Month	Equal	7.9	12
Special Olympics Coordinator	.	END	3.6	13
Spelling Bee Coordinator, District	END	3.6	14
Student Council Elementary	Equal	1.5	15
Student Council HS	Equal	4.1	16
Student Council JH	Equal	3.6	17
Support Peer Teacher (Without portfolio requirements)	Equal	4.0	18
Very Special Arts Coordinator	END	3.1	19
ATHLETICS	20
** 1. Athletic supplements for seasonal sports shall be paid in a lump sum upon completion of the j activity. A supplement will be prorated if a coach quits prior to completion of the season. No 2.2 more than three (3) athletic supplements may be paid to a single individual without approval of 23 the Superintendent and documentation that all resources have been exhausted.	24
Exceptions - Football supplements will be paid as follows:	25
75% at end of playing season	26
25% at end of spring practice	27
2.	Athletic Coach Certification: All Coaches must possess a valid part-time athletic coaching or full- 28
time professional Educator’s certificate from the State of Florida. A copy of the certificate or a 29 copy of a completed application for the certificate, with evidence that all requirements for 30 certification have been met, must be presented prior to student contact. Head coaches, athletic 31 directors, and junior high / middle school activities program coordinators who have earned the 32 Florida certification endorsement as Athletic Coach in addition to their regular teaching 33 certification will receive 1.0% of the base salary, in addition to their athletic supplement upon 34 presentation of the certification endorsement.	35
Head coaches, cheerleading sponsors and athletic directors must complete an update of the Care 36 and Prevention of Athletic Injuries workshop in order to receive the athletic supplement and in 37 order to be considered for reappointment to the head coach or athletic director position for the 38 following year.	39
40
Page 68
Supplement	Method of Payment	Per Cent	1
Athletic Coaching Endorsement (Head, Athletic Directors, JH	END	1.0	2
School Programs Coordinators with athletic coaching endorsement)		3
Baseball, Head HS	. ........	END	12	4
Baseball, Assistant HS	.	END	7	, 5
Baseball, JV Head HS	END	8	6
Baseball, Head JH	END	6	7
Baseball, Assistant JH	END	5	8
Basketball, Head HS	END	13.6	9
Basketball, Assistant HS	END	8	10
Basketball, JV Head HS	END	6.85	11
Basketball, Head JH	END	6.85	12
Cheerleading, Head Varsity -	Equal	12	13
Cheerleading, Head Junior Varsity HS	Equal	9	14
Cheerleading, Head JH	Equal	9	15
Cross Country, Head HS	END	6	16
Flag Football, Head HS/JH/M	END	6	17
Football, Head HS	END	182	18
Football, Assistant HS	END	11.55	19
Football, JV Head HS	END	12	20
Football, Head JH	END	10	21
Football, Assistant JH	END	9.1	22
Golf, Head HS	END	6.5	23
Intramural Program Sponsor JH	END	5.15	24
Intramural Program Sponsor JH Assistant	END	4.7	25
Rhythmic Gymnastics, Head HS/JH/M	END	6	26
Soccer, Head HS	END	10	27
Soccer, Assistant HS	END	6	28
Soccer, Head JV HS	END	7	29
Soccer, Head JH	END .	6	30
Soccer, Assistant JH	END	5.15	31
Softball, Head HS (Fast Pitch)	END	12	32
Softball, Assistant HS (Fast Pitch)	END	7	33
Softball, Head JV (Fast Pitch) HS	END	8	34
Softball, Head JH (Fast Pitch)	END	6	35
Softball,Assistant JH (Fast Pitch)	END	5	36
Softball, Head HS (Slow Pitch)	END	7	37
38		
Page 69
Supplement	Method of Payment	Per Cent	1
Softball, Assistant HS (Slow Pitch)	END	6	2
Softball, Head JH (Slow Pitch)	END	6	3
Softball, Assistant JH (Slow Pitch)	END	5	-	v:	:
Swimming, Head HS	END	10	5
Swimming, Head JH	END	5.15	6
Tennis, Head HS	END	7	7
Track, Head HS	END	10	8
Track, Assistant HS	END	7	9
Track, Head JH	END	6	10
Track, Assistant JH	END	5.15	11
Volleyball, Head HS	END	10	12
Volleyball, Assistant HS	END	7	13
Volleyball, Assistant JH	END	5.15	14 .
Volleyball, Head JV	END	6	15
Volleyball, Head JH	END	6	16
Weightlifting, Head HS	END	7	17
Weightlifting, Head JH	END •	6	18
Wrestling, Head HS	END	10	19
Wrestling, Assistant HS	END	7	20
Wrestling, Head JH	END	5.15	•-<
22
23
2003-2006 Master Contract	24
25
___26
Page 70
APPENDIX VI MENTORING BONUS GUIDELINES
1 2
Definition: Mentoring, for the purpose ofthe Dale Hickam Excellent Teaching Program, shall be defined as giving 3 instruction, direction, or counsel to Florida public school teachers on an individual or group basis who are not 4 National Board Certified. In short, Nationally Board Certified Teachers may mentor teachers who may or may not 5 be National Board applicants, including teachers in low performing schools and new teachers. (Implementation 6 contingent on continued funding authorization by the Florida legislature.)	7
Mentoring and Other Related Services Requirements:	8
•	may not claim preparation time for any mentoring activity	9
•	may not claim travel time	10
•	maynotclaimtimespentattendingprofessionaldevelopmentconferencesexcepttheactualtimeanNBC spent	11
presenting	12
•	mentoring can be conducted fece-to-face, by telephone, by e-mail, online, within the district, outside the	13
district, but within the state. If mentoring is conducted by e-mail or on-line, documentation must be provided.	14	;
•	may not claim any mentoring activities completed while on approved or unapproved leave.	15
•	may not mentor out-of-state teachers	16
•	mentoring activities may not be counted when a stipend is paid for service rendered (i.e. activities performed	17
as a supplemented peer teachers for beginning teachers, department head, team leader, etc.)	18
•	may not claim mentoring activites provided to preintem, interns, or other college students	19
•	mentors must be officially employed as full-time (i.e. filling an allocation of at least 1.0) classroom teachers	20
providing instruction to students during the entire school year and must maintain classroom teacher status.	21
•	must equal a total of twelve workdays (94 hours) of the mentor’s time outside of the student contact hours of	22	:
the regular school day. This 94-hour requirement applies regardless of whether an individual or group are 23 mentored	24
•	must be provided to Florida public school teachers who do not hold NBPTS certification	25
•	may not be provided during the student contact hours during the 196 days of required service for the school 26 year	27
•	must be provided by a Clay County teacher holding a valid NBPTS certificate	28
•	must be provided by a teacher who has demonstrated satisfactory teaching performance on the most recent 29	;
regular performance appraisal	30
•	may provide mentoring services to an NBPTS candidate in any certificate area	31
Examples of Approved Mentoring and Related Service Activities:	32
•	providing mentoring/support activities for beginning teachers participating in the Teacher Induction Program 33 or Alternative Certification Program, as long as the NBC does not receive a stipend for these activities which 34 _ i occur outside of the NBC’s student contact hours.	35
Page 71
•	counseling with other teachers regarding teaching performance including development of teacher-made 1 materials and supplemental classroom materials for use by these teachers	-2
•	conducting workshops for teachers outside of the student contact hours of the regular school day	3
•	providing assistance to NBPTS candidates through participating in a support team	4
•	participating in NBPTS training workshops that occur outside of the student contact hours of the school day	5
•	doing Internet research in preparing exemplary lesson plans to be shared with other teachers. Research must	6
b	e related to a product and must be shared.	7
•	meeting individually with NBPTS candidates	8
9
•	conducting, or assisting in providing, after student contact hours, beginning teacher workshops and 10 orientations	11
12
•	reviewing videotaped lessons presented by other teachers for peer review	13
•	reviewing an NBPTS candidate’s portfolio materials	14
•	responding to questions from other Florida public school teachers on LISTSERVE web-site. Web-site address 15 must be listed on mentoring log	16
•	any mentoring activites conducted by e-mail or online must be accompanied by appropriate documentation (i.e. 17 print screen copy of e-mail or on line contact)	18
Mentoring activity hours can be accrued for assistance provided to individual teachers or assistance provided tc 9 groups; however mentoring hours cannot be multiplied by the number of teachers attending (For example, a .J workshop conducted from 4:00 - 6:00 p.m. can only count for two hours of mentoring even if 20 teachers attend 21 during this session)	22
Procedures for Appointment of Mentors and Logging Mentoring Hours	23
Teachers are eligible to serve as mentors on the day they are notified of their successful achievement of the NBPTS 24 certification. The Mentoring Log (see attached) must be completed and submitted to the District Contact by the 25 preestablished deadline. All mentoring hours must be logged on this form (you may make multiple copies of the 26 blank form provided).	27
•	Teachers interested in mentoring should contact the District Contact (ext. 2471) to secure a "Mentoring 28
Services Salary Bonus Form" and a "Mentoring Proposal Form."	29
•	Prospective mentors should complete the mentoring salary bonus form (leavingthe Superintendent’s signature 30
line blank) and the Mentoring Proposal form (with their Principal’s signature) and forward both forms to the	31
District Contact for approval.	32
•	The District Contact will approve the completed form, confirm the applicant’s eligibility to participate and 33 arrange for the mentor to be approved by the School Board. The approved "Mentoring Proposal Form," a letter 34 informing the teacher of the School Board’s approval and a blank "Mentoring Log" will be returned to the 35 mentor.	36
•	The Mentoring Proposal Form must be approved by the District Contact prior to beginning the mentori! 37
Page 72
activity. Any changes to the proposal, after mentoring begins, must be approved before being implemented. 1 Upon written notification of approval by the District Contact, the approved mentoring activities may begin to 2 be logged on the Mentoring Log.	3
•	Mentoring activities may be conducted from July 1, the beginning ofthe fiscal year, until the district deadline 4
established. Mentoring logs must be submitted to the district contact by the established district deadline in 5
-	order for the bonus payment to be processed by the state for payment no later than June 30,2003.	6
•	As approved mentoring activities occur, the mentor will log the activities on the Mentoring Log and secure the	7
signature of the teacher (or group representative) mentored. When the form is completed, the mentor should 8 sign the certifying statement at the bottom of the form before forwarding it to the District Contact.	9
•	National Board Certified teachers should keep a copy of all proposal forms, mentoring logs and other 10 mentoring documentation submitted to the district contact.	11
•	Upon receipt ofthe completed Mentoring Log, the District Contact will verify that the activities are acceptable,	12
t	hat the form is completed properly and approve the mentoring hours submitted.	13
• After the District Contact has approved the form he will secure the Superintendent’s signature on the 14 mentoring bonus form which will then be forwarded to Tallahassee requesting a transfer of bonus funds to the	15
district The District will pay the mentoring bonuses as soon as funds are received from the DOE.	16
2003-2006 Master Contract	17
i
Pase 73
CLAY COUNTY SCHOOLS FLORIDA EXCELLENT TEACHER PROGRAM MENTORING PROPOSAL
NBPTS MENTOR’S NAME_________________________________________________
SCHOOL/DEPARTMENT:HOMEPHONE:
After having reviewed the district "Mentoring Bonus Guidelines" memo, I am proposing the following mentoring activities for approval by the District Contact:
Anticipated Date/TimeofProjectedMentoringActivities:
Name ofTeacher/Group to Receive Services________________________________________________________
Description of Projected Mentoring Activities:
**If more space is needed please continue on the back of this page	'
I have reviewed this proposal and am aware of this teacher’s participation in the Mentoring Bonus program.
Signature of Mentor’s Principal:Date:
DISTRICT CONTACT ACTION:
Approved_________
Disapproved
More information needed
District Contact Signature: Date: , -
** IF THERE ARE ANY CHANGES IN MENTORING ACTIVITIES, AFTER APPROVAL BY THE DISTRICT CONTACT, PLEASE SUBMIT A WRITTEN AMENDMENT BEFORE BEGINNING THE NEW ACTIVITY.	_
Page 74
CLAY COUNTY'' TOOLS - MENTORING LOG FLORIDA EXCL. .ENT TEACHER PROGRAM
Date Mentoring Proposal Submitted to District:____________________________
Page 75
Last name, First name	Social Security Number	SchooIZDepartment
Date of Service (Month/Day/Year)	DayofWtck	Time of Service , to	 (Note AM or PM)	Number of mentoring hours	Description of mentoring/related . services	Name of Tetocher(s) mentored	Signature of Teacher/Croup Rep< Mentored	,
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
						
TOTAL HOURS	I hereby certify that I have provided mentoring or related services to the above public school teacher(s) which
were not completed during the student contact hours of the regular school day or during the 196 days of required service.	I
Signature of Mentor	Date
Approved: District Contact’s Signature	Date
MIS24262 REV 6/29/2000
APPENDIX Vn POSTING PROCEDURES FOR OPENING A NEW SCHOOL
1.	New School postings shall be prior to the district PHASE I postings and not later than March 15th. This posting will be for teaching and supplemental positions.
2.	Teachers applying for positions from the new school posting must be in-county CC, PSC, or AC recommended for PSC with three (3) continuous years in the district.
3.	The principal of die new school shall notify applicants of decisions about postings within two (2) weeks of the close of the posting.
4.	After the special "NEW SCHOOL" posting, the remaining positions will be posted in accordance with the phases and procedures for the district outlined in Article XII.
2003-2006 Master Contract
Page 76