Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Utica Community Schools Board of Education and Utica Education Association (UEA), Michigan Education Association (MEA), National Education Association (NEA), (2002)
K#: 830740
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu

UTICA COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
AGREEMENT
Utica Community School District
Utica Education Association
July 1, 2002 - June 30, 2004
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Table of Contents ................................................... i
Preamble............................................................ ii
Basic Philosophy..................................................  iii
I	Recognition........................................................... 1
II	Rights and Responsibilities........................................... 4
III	Working Conditions.................................................... 7
IV	Grievance Procedures ................................................ 18
V	Implementation Procedures............................................ 22
VI	Staff Development.................................................... 23
VII	Professional Qualifications .	....................................... 24
VIII	Teacher Evaluation................................................... 25
IX	Disciplinary Support and Protection of Teachers...................... 27
X	Assignment........................................................... 29
XI	Transfer............................................................. 30
XII	Curriculum Standing Committees ...................................... 32
XIII	Seniority...........................................................  34
XIV	Leave of Absence..................................................... 35
XV	Sabbatical Leave ..................................................   41
XVI	Sick Leave Bank...................................................... 45
XVII	Reduction and Recall ................................................ 47
XVIII	Medical Examination.................................................. 48
XIX	Dismissal Procedures for Co-Curricular Compensated Assignments . .	48
XX	No Strike...........................................................  49
XXI	Physical Facilities.................................................. 49
XXII	Retirement........................................................... 50
XXIII	School Improvement Process/Professional Development Program . .	50
APPENDIX I - A	Teacher Calendar 2002-2003 .......................................... 52
I - B	Teacher Calendar 2003-2004........................................... 53
II	Salary Placement..................................................... 54
III-A	Salary Schedule 2002-2003............................................ 56
III-B	Salary Schedule 2003-2004...........................................  57
IV	Extra Pay for Co-Curricular Assignments.............................. 58
IV	Co-Curricular Salary Schedule........................................ 61
V	Professional Compensation............................................ 62
VI	Benefit Programs .................................................... 63
VII	Part-Time and Shared Employment...................................... 65
VII	I	Utica Alpha.......................................  .	67
Duration of Agreement/Nondiscrimination...........................   67
IX	Letters of Agreement/Understanding................................... 69
Evaluation Guidelines..............................................  73

PREAMBLE
This Agreement entered into this September 14, 2002 by and between the Board of Education of the Utica Community Schools, Sterling Heights, Michigan, hereinafter called the "Board" and the Utica Education Association hereinafter called the "Association".
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS the Board and the Association recognize and declare that providing a quality education for children of the Utica Community School System is their mutual aim and that die character of such education depends on many factors which include quality, morale, cooperativeness and dedication of the teaching staff, administrators and the community, and,
WHEREAS, the Board has a statutory obligation, pursuant to Act 379 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1965, to bargain with the Association as the representative of its teaching personnel j	with respect to hours, wages terms and conditions of employment, and
WHEREAS, the parties following extended and deliberate professional negotiations, have reached certain understandings which they desire to memorialize,
In consideration of the following mutual covenants, it is hereby as follows:


BASIC PHILOSOPHY
We believe that quality education is a responsibility shared by the home, school, student, and community. Schools are centers of community endeavor to improve the quality of living and learning for all citizens. This philosophy makes quality education a dynamic process and a collaborative effort.
Schools must promote the ideas of democracy. The preservation of a free society depends upon the ability of its citizens to protect individual liberty, encourage social justice, make informed choices, and develop new ways of solving problems.
Students must recognize that they have a responsibility to learn and that there are appropriate ways of dealing with feelings and problems. Only as students develop confidence and trust in their own abilities to master skills, gain knowledge, and solve problems will they progress to a point where they will make larger contributions and be productive and responsible citizens in later years.
Students deserve instruction designed to actively involve them in their own learning. Programs should be flexible and designed to allow for changes in purpose and to reflect changing social needs. Students should be encouraged to reason and think creatively. Lasting self-esteem is a result of experiencing success with quality learning challenges.
We need to increase each student’s awareness of the rapidly changing world. Let each child realize that education is a life-long process which should enable him/her to be a self-disciplined, self motivated, responsible, thoughtful, contributing member of the local and the global community.
ARTICLE I
RECOGNITION
A.	The Board hereby recognizes Utica Education Association as the exclusive
bargaining representative, as defined in Section II of Act 379, Public Acts of 1965, for all professional personnel on Tenure or probation, as defined by the Michigan Teacher Tenure Act, school psychologists, social workers, physical and occupational therapists under contract/statement of employment with Utica Community Schools but excluding individuals providing services under contract service agreements, substitutes, individuals employed for Appendix IV positions who are not otherwise members of the bargaining unit, supervisory and executive personnel, certain mentor teachers, members of the Utica Federation of Teachers, Montessori pre-school teachers, and non-certified personnel. The term ’’teacher” when used hereinafter in the Agreement shall refer to all Employees represented by the Association in the bargaining unit as defined above.
B.	The Board agrees not to negotiate with any teachers’ organization other than the Association for the duration of this Agreement.
C.	Nothing contained herein shall be construed to deny or restrict rights any teacher may have under the Michigan General School Laws or applicable civil laws and regulations. The rights granted to teachers hereunder shall be deemed to be in addition to those provided elsewhere.
D.	The Board agrees that neither they nor their agents shall attempt to initiate any exceptions to this Agreement except through the Association. Should an individual teacher be involved in such exceptions, the Association President or person designated by the President, shall serve as liaison between the teacher and the Board. All communications regarding such an exception will be sent to the Association Executive Board and forwarded by them to the individual teacher.
E.	This Master Agreement pre-empts any policies of the Board or the Association which are not in harmony with its written provisions.
F.	All individual contracts are subject to the terms of this Master Agreement.
G.	If any provision of the Master Agreement or any application of the Master Agreement
to any Employee or group of Employees shall be found contrary to law, then such provisions of applications shall not be deemed valid and subsisting except to the extent permitted by law, but all other provisions or applications shall continue in full force and effect.
H.	Subsequent Master Agreement:
1.	Negotiations leading to a new Master Agreement shall commence not less than ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiration of this Master Agreement.
1

1
2.	Neither patty shall have any control over the selection of the negotiation representatives of the other party and each patty may select its representatives from within or without the school district. Written notice of team members will be submitted to the opposing team thirty (30) calendar days prior to the beginning of negotiations.
3.	It is recognized that no final agreement between the parties may be executed without ratification by a majority of the Board and by a majority of the Association, but the parties mutually pledge that representatives selected by each shall be clothed with all necessary power and authority to make proposals, consider proposals, and make concessions in the course of negotiations or bargaining, subject only to such ultimate ratification.
4.	Released time for the members of the Association's bargaining team will be arranged. Negotiations will take place one-half on school time and one-half on time when school is not in session. The Association agrees to reimburse the Board of Education for one-half of the substitute expense to cover this release time for negotiations.
5.	The final Master Agreement agreed to by the negotiating patties shall be printed and distributed to all teachers. A copy shall be provided each new teacher hired during the life of the contract. The Association shall be provided one hundred (100) copies. The expense of this printing shall be assumed by the Board. Additional copies will be provided to the Association at cost provided the request is made prior to printing.
I.	Professional Responsibility:
1.	Membership in the Association shall be open to all teachers regardless of race, creed, sex, marital status, national origin, religion ot age.
2.	It is recognized that the proper negotiation and administration of collective bargaining agreements entail expense which is appropriately shared by all teachers who are beneficiaries of such agreements. To this end, in the event a teacher shall not join the Association and execute an authorization for dues deduction, special assessments, ot cash payments such teacher shall, as a condition of continued employment by the Board, execute an authorization fot dues deduction, special assessments, or cash payment of a sum equivalent to the dues and assessments of the Association which sum shall be forwarded to the Association. In the event that such an authorization is not signed for a period of thirty (30) days following the commencement of employment of the teacher, the Board agrees that in order to effectuate the purposes of the Public Employment Relations Act and this Agreement, the services of such teacher shall be discontinued as of the end of the school year. Such teacher or teachers shall be notified by the Board of Education of the termination of their services immediately upon the expiration of the thirty (30) day period heretofore mentioned.
3.	However, if at the end of the school year, the teacher ot teachers receiving the termination notice shall then be engaged in pursuing any legal remedies contesting the discharge under this provision before the Michigan Tenure Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, such teacher's services shall not be terminated until
2
such time as such teacher or teachers have either obtained a final decision as to the validity of said discharge, or said teacher or teachers have ceased to pursue the legal remedies available to them by not making a timely appeal of any decision rendered in said matter by the Michigan Tenure Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction.
4.	In any case in which a teacher or teachers contest a discharge under the provisions of Article I, Section I., paragraphs 2 and 3, and it is necessary for the Board to defend its position and to engage legal counsel and to incur other fees and expenses, the Association agrees to pay one half (1/2) of the fees and expenses so incurred by the Board.
5.	The Board of Education agrees to keep the Association informed as to all proceedings that take place concerning such teacher or teachers who are contesting the provisions of Article I, Section I.
6.	In the event that a teacher is dismissed under the terms of Article I, Section I., the re-hiring of said teacher by the Utica Community Schools will be conditional on the following: Unpaid back dues or an equivalent amount, being paid to the Association by said teacher.
J.	Check-Off (Dues Deduction)
1.	The Board agrees to deduct Association dues or service fee from the pay of those employees who individually request, in writing, that such deductions be made. These deductions will be made in equal installments from each pay period after receipt of authorization. Deductions start on the first pay after the commencement of each school year and run continuously for twenty (20) pay periods. Authorized political action contributions or association special assessments will be directed by the Utica Education Association.
2.	The amounts shall be certified to the employer by the Treasurer of the Association and the aggregate deductions shall be remitted to the Treasurer within ten (10) working days.
3.	Employees shall tender the authorization for check-off by signing the proper authorization.
4.	The Association shall hold the Board harmless on account of any monies deducted and remitted to the Association pursuant to this provision.
3
ARTICLE II
RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
A.	It is recognized by all parties to this Agreement that the Board of Education hereby retains and reserves without limitation, all powers, rights, authority, duties and responsibilities conferred upon and vested in it by the laws and the Constitution of the State of Michigan, and of the United States.
B.	It is further recognized that the exercise by the Board of Education of said powers, rights, authority, duties, and responsibilities through the adoption of policies, rules, regulations and practices in connection therewith shall be limited only by the specific terms of this Agreement.
C.	Teachers are responsible for maintaining a continuous high level of professional service to the welfare and benefit of the student body. Teachers, therefore, are responsible to discharge their teaching assignments with professional proficiency and, to this end, to plan adequately and make conscientious efforts to meet and to communicate as required and within reason, with children, parents and/or consultants.
D.	As a duly elected body exercising governmental power under laws of the State of Michigan the Board undertakes and agrees that it will not direcdy or indirectly discourage or deprive or coerce any teacher in the enjoyment of any rights conferred by the Michigan Public Acts and the Constitution of Michigan and of the United States. The Board will not discriminate against any teacher with respect to hours, wages, or any terms or conditions of employment.
E.	The Board agrees to furnish the Association the names of bargaining unit members within the first payroll period of each school year during the length of this contract.
F.	The Board agrees to furnish to the Association in response to written requests, all available public information concerning the financial resources of the district, including but not limited to: annual financial reports and audits, register of bargaining unit personnel, county tax allocation budgets, agenda and minutes of all Board meetings, membership data, names and addresses of all teachers, salaries paid thereto and educational background, class size information, and such other information that is necessary for negotiations and the processing of grievances. The Association agrees that it may be required to provide assistance in compilation of such data.
G.	The Association shall have the exclusive right over other teacher organizations to post notices of activities and matters of the Association’s concern on teachers’ bulletin boards, at least one designated section of which shall be provided in each building. The Association may have exclusive rights over other teacher organizations to use the district mail boxes and communication systems for communication to teachers. The U.E.A. office, if located within the district, will be included in the inter-school mail delivery service. The U.E.A. agrees that the use of this service is at theit own risk and is not subject to the grievance procedure.
H.	As appropriate space is available, the Board of Education may provide the Utica Education Association office space at a fair and reasonable rental fee. The Utica Education Association
4
agrees that the implementation of this provision is not a subject for the grievance procedure.
I.	Both parties agree to invoke no policies which shall result in discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, age, sex, marital status, or handicap, excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of, or otherwise subjected to discrimination in any program conducted by this educational agency. The Utica Community School District is an equal opportunity employer.
J.	No employee included under the Master Agreement shall be denied his/her right to insure the enforcement of this Agreement. Neither shall the Board nor its agent make effort, to dissuade any individual by reward or threat of future prejudice from enforcing his/het rights under this Agreement.
K.	The staff directory, when published, shall include a list of Association officers, representatives and the UEA professional staff as provided by the Association. The Association shall provide this information to the Human Resources Office, in written form, by the second Friday in September. The Association will be provided with a minimum of ten (10) copies of the directory.
L.	The U.E.A. designated officials may use school buildings to carry on Association business provided:
1.	There is prior notification and approval from the building principal. A denial must be submitted to the Association in writing;
2.	The meeting shall not interfere or pre-empt the regular or normal school program;
3.	The Association agrees to reimburse the Board of Education for any and all fees and
expenses incurred because of such use by the Association or its designated officials;
4.	Attendance at these meetings will be limited to Association for its members and/or their invited guests.
M.	The use of Board of Education school facilities and equipment by the U.E.A designated representatives may be permitted provided:
1.	Prior approval is given. Denial of permission must be submitted in writing;
2.	The legitimate business of the Association for its membership is conducted;
3.	Supplies used in connection with the use of equipment and communication to members (Article II, G.) be provided by the Association or paid for by the Association.
5

N.	Teaching Facilities:
Recognizing the importance of properly maintained physical facilities to the attainment of a high level of educational achievement, the Administration and the Professional Staff will promote and maintain a safe and healthful working environment.	,
Within the budgetary resources of the district, the Board will provide each teacher and itinerant special services personnel for professional instructional preparation with:
1.	A work facility (desk or planning area).
2.	A reasonable amount of teaching supplies and equipment to include but not be limited to: pencils, pens, paper, physical education equipment, student chairs, desks, etc.
3.	A lockable storage space for art, music, physical education equipment at the elementary level and all special services personnel, which shall be used for their exclusive use where space and equipment are available.
4.	Telephone services and facilities for gathering confidential information.
5.	A lockable desk and/or storage area for the personal effects of teachers.
6.	Copy machines shall be available for use by teachers for the generating of
instructional materials .
7.	The equipment and material listed in section N, one through six will be used in a prudent manner.
O.	No teacher shall be required to administer medication to pupils.
P.	Academic Freedom:
1.	Realizing that a teacher cannot provide adequate stimulation to students nor permit the free exchange and development of ideas without occasional unexpected results that are easily misconstrued when removed from context, it is agreed that an atmosphere of academic freedom will be maintained.
2.	The Board of Education agrees that individual teachers shall be free to present the several sides of controversial issues and topics to the best of his/her ability and knowledge and within the level of maturity of the students involved. All matters, materials and methods of presentation shall be within Board of Education policy and the articles of this Agreement.
6
Q.	Personal Lives:
Faculty members' lives are not within the appropriate concern of the Board of Education unless it can be demonstrated that the performance of their duties have been adversely affected.
R.	Exclusion of Tenure in Position:
A bargaining unit member, who has attained tenure, under the Michigan Teachers' Tenure Act, as a classroom teacher, who is in a position other than a classroom teacher, shall not be deemed to have tenure in such position by virtue of this contract or any individual contract for such non-classroom position, but shall be deemed to have continuing tenure as an active classroom teacher.
ARTICLE III
WORKING CONDITIONS
A.	General:
1.	The responsibilities of any position in the bargaining unit will not be substantially altered or increased without prior negotiations with the Association in district-wide agreement implementation meetings.
2.	Teachers shall be free to leave the building during their lunch break.
3.	Any teacher desiring to leave his/her assigned building prior to the completion of his/her daily schedule, shall first secure permission of the immediate supervisor or designated representative.
4.	Teachers may be required to attend school meetings up to two (2) hours per month. The principal will set the agenda with input from the NCA/SIT chair. A minimum of twenty-four (24) hour notice will be given prior to holding after school staff meetings. Should an emergency situation necessitate holding an after school staff meeting without giving twenty-four (24) hour notice, the building principal will consult with the Association Building Representative. In the event the building principal has exhausted the two (2) hour per month limit, additional time or meetings may be arranged with the mutual consent of the Association and the Administration.
5.	Teachers may be required to attend four (4) evening functions per year:
a.	Open houses/curriculum nights, and one (1) other evening function shall be the only evening functions which may be required of all members of a building staff. All other required evening functions will be shared equally by the staff. The activities which are not required of all staff members shall be posted in an identified location in each building and teachers shall choose which activities to attend on a first come, first serve basis.
7

b.	Teachers assigned to more than one building shall not be required to attend more evening functions than if they were assigned to only one building.
6.	Attendance at any educational or civic function where attendance is not voluntary, but required by the Board of Education in excess of the ones specified will be paid according to Appendix IV.
7.	It is recognized by the Association and the Board of Education that all staff have a professional responsibility to share in the general supervision of students to preserve property and the welfare of the students. These professional responsibilities will be mutually developed on an equitable basis in conjunction with the principal and his/her staff.
8.	The Association and the Board of Education recognize the need for improved educational programs. It is further recognized that in the event of new courses, program or organizational structure of an experimental nature, working conditions as defined in the contract may be affected.
9.	Any teacher having a student teacher will have a substitute provided when absent if the teacher deems it necessary. A student teacher will not be used as a substitute for other than the supervising teacher without consultation with the supervising teacher.
10.	At the commencement of each school year, teachers will be informed of the emergency procedures plan to handle situations which disrupt the normal operation of the school building program. The plan will be posted in each building, evaluated periodically, with appropriate copies to the Association building representatives.
11.	On days when students are excused due to inclement weather, teachers will not
report to school. Any student instruction days which are canceled and which must be rescheduled in order to comply with School State Aid Act, shall be rescheduled. The administration shall consult with the Association prior to rescheduling days.
12.	A fan-out procedure utilizing the telephone and staff shall be established and evaluated periodically by the building administration in consultation with the building representative.
13.	The U.E.A. President will designate which Association Representative in each building will be released from non-instructional assignments/duties for the purpose of representing the Association. These duties include but are not limited to:
a.	attending meetings between teachers and administrators involving disciplinary actions or investigations.
b.	attend regular implementation meetings with administration.
c.	disseminate Association information to teachers in their buildings.
d.	process Level I & Level II grievances.
14.	Whenever possible, Human Resources will provide for absent classroom teachers, substitutes who possess appropriate certification, experience and/or interest in the absent teacher’s subject area/level.
15.	The Board will provide relief for classroom teachers who are required to attend special education student planning meetings.	‘
16.	The Board shall provide in-service training for general education teachers and special education teachers who are engaged in providing the Least Restrictive Environment for special education students.
17.	In the event a general education teacher believes the placement of a special education student in his/her class is inappropriate, the affected teacher has the right to request an immediate IEPC. In any case, the general education teacher shall have the opportunity to confer direcdy with the special education teacher/consultant concerning the student.
18.	Each student certified for special education will be counted on the regular classroom teacher’s enrollment for class list purposes on a one for one basis.
19.	General education teachers will have access to information regarding the nature of a special education student’s handicap within the guidelines of the Special Education Rules.
20.	When practicable special education students will be integrated in a particular grade level or subject area to provide an equal distribution for all teachers of a particular level or subject area.
21.	Teachers will not be required to physically move desks, chairs, and file cabinets.
22.	If it is known that an IEPC meeting will include legal counsel or expert resource person on behalf of the student, the teacher will be notified and shall have the right to request a postponement.
23.	Medically Fragile Students
a.	Medically fragile applies to only those students who have chronic conditions which are severe enough to require specialized health procedures, equipment, and techniques, the absence of which could result in a life-threatening situation.
b.	Classroom teachers shall not be required to perform medical procedures. These procedures are: catheterization, tracheotomy suctioning, tube feeding, respiratory treatment and maintenance of medical apparatus. However, teachers are expected to provide assistance in medical emergencies such as administration of epi-pens.
c.	Classroom teachers will be notified of known impairments of students assigned to their class schedule, when legally permissible.
9
B.	Elementary:
1.	Teachers shall have a minimum forty (40) minutes for duty free lunch with the exception of kindergarten which will have a minimum of thirty five (35) minutes.
2.	Non-instructional assignments shall be developed by the building principal in consultation with the Association Representative. Research center teachers and classroom and special area teachers traveling between buildings shall not be required to perform the building non-instructional assignments.
3.	The elementary school day shall be 7 hours, 5 minutes. The time prior to and subsequent to the regularly scheduled school instructional time shall be arranged to accommodate supervision of students. The time when teachers are not supervising students will be used at their own discretion.
4.	The building principal and teaching staff shall work out together a mutual agreement as to times for recesses and lunch. There shall be a maximum of twenty (20) minutes for a scheduled recess to take place in the afternoon, and students are to be appropriately supervised. There shall be no scheduled morning recess, except for kindergarten; however, teachers will have the option of supervising their own class for a morning recess, as needed. The sum total of morning and afternoon recess shall not exceed thirty (30) minutes.
5.	Regular classroom teachers shall have a preparation period when special area teachers are instructing their classes. The Administration will attempt to schedule special area teachers’ schedules in such a manner that all regular classroom teachers shall share equally in their services with daily preparation times. Attempts will be made to rotate on a yearly basis to provide equal service. Special area teachers include Foreign Language, Art, Physical Education and Vocal Music teachers. Claims that special area teachers’ schedules are not being equally shared will be referred to the district-wide implementation process.
6.	Elementary teachers shall be provided an average of 200 minutes weekly for conference/preparation. This time shall be in blocks of not less than thirty (30) minutes with the exception of kindergarten which will have an average of 260 minutes of weekly preparation. Foreign language shall be in blocks not less than twenty (20) minutes.
7.	Teachers and principal should decide mutually on the instructional organization of the school (team teaching, platoons, self-contained, readiness classes, etc.) with the final decision remaining the responsibility of the Board of Education.
8.	During elementary school assemblies, the special area teachers will provide the classroom teachers with scheduled released time.
9.	No elementary teacher shall be required to accept administrative responsibilities in the absence of the building principal.
10
10.	Full-time kindergarten teachers may be granted additional released time on a need basis for parent-teacher conferences. Begindergarten teachers will be granted additional time equal to their regular assignment at the end of each semester for records.
11.	Elementary System-Wide Department Chairpersons:
The departmental chairperson in Language Arts, Social Studies, Science, Mathematics, Art, Music, Physical Education, Counseling, Foreign Language, and Research Center will be appointed for two (2) year terms, and, in addition to the compensation provided in Appendix IV, shall be granted release time on a need basis to fulfill their responsibilities.
12.	Elementary teachers will have until the end of the last student day before the administration may require the final grades to be submitted.
13.	Class Size :
a.	The maximum class size at the elementary level shall be as follows:
Grade	Meeting Level	Implementation Level
Beg	18	19
Kdg	26	27
1 st	27	28
2nd	28	29
3rd	30	31
4th	31	32
5 th	31	32
6th	31	32
L Comb	25	26
U Comb	26	27
b.	Within five school days after the meeting level is reached, a meeting will be held between the teacher involved, the Association representative, and the Superintendent’s representative to discuss the pending class overload. At this meeting, a solution will be planned to relieve the overload in the event that another student registers for that class.
If the meeting level is exceeded by one, the plan will be implemented. The time span from the date of registrations to the date of implementing the solution shall not exceed ten (10) school days.
Possible alternative options for overloads are:
1.	Additional teacher, either full or half-time
2.	Trained teacher aide
3.	Rescheduling of students
4.	Additional planning time
5.	Other mutually agreed actions
11
c.	At the point the meeting level is exceeded by one or more students extra pay at the rate of $6.50 per student per day will be paid until such time as the class enrollment drops to or below the meeting level or until such time as another relief alternative is implemented. The administration shall have a grace period of five working days at the beginning of the first semester to level class loads before the above language becomes operative. Reimbursement for all class count overages will be paid at the first full payroll period after the end of each marking period.
d.	In the event that no agreed solution can be reached at the building regarding relief of the overload, the problem will be referred to a committee composed of the Superintendent's representative and the Association President, or a designated representative, who shall investigate and make recommendations to the building principal, teacher and building representative within seven days of the appeal. Agreed recommendation shall be immediately implemented.
14.	Classroom teachers will be provided assistance in order to administer individualized standardized assessments.
15.	Assignment of duties, additional duties, and/or exemptions from duties may be
developed. Such duties will be assigned when agreed to mutually by the building principal and the Head Building Representative. Claims by teachers that duties are not being "equitably shared" shall be referred to the district-wide implementation process (Article V).
C.	Special Education
1.	Special Education teachers are recognized as constituting part of the elementary or secondary school program and shall accrue working condition provisions and responsibilities allotted teachers under Article III, Section B and E of this Agreement.
2.	The Board will endeavor to provide children with mental impairments extra consideration regarding field trips.
3.	If directed by the building administrator, testing and observation of non-certified students by the learning center teacher shall not be considered part of that teacher's planning time as defined in Article III, B.6.
4.	The Superintendent will consult with the Association before requesting deviations in the special education rule.
5.	Two (2) copies of the State of Michigan Special Education Administrative Rules will be available in each building.
6.	Prior to contracting out work, the Board agrees that the district's special education staff, if available, will be offered the first opportunity for additional work. The rate of compensation will be determined by mutual agreement of the administration and the affected department chairperson.
12
7.	Nothing contained herein shall be construed to deny or restrict any teacher the rights provided him/her under both Federal and State Special Education Legislation, Rules and Regulations.
8.	For the purpose of maintaining the professional confidentiality of communication with parents, counselors, psychologists, social workers and speech teachers will be provided with access to an available phone in a private area.
9.	All school psychologists, social workers, and speech teachers will be assigned a work area suitable to the performance of their duties.
10.	Classroom teacher classloads shall be governed by Special Education Rules and Regulations. Resolution of Special Education class load non-compliance issues shall not be subject for the grievance procedure.
11.	Secondary schools with three (3) or more special education teachers will be
provided with a department chairperson.
12.	A systemwide department chairperson for both school social work services and school psychologist may be provided.
D.	Special Area: Art, Vocal and Instrumental Music, Physical Education and Foreign Language.
1.	Special area teachers will not teach more than one (1) class per class period except where mutually agreed upon between the special area teacher and the building principal.
2.	Alterations in the specialist teaching schedule shall occur only after prior consultation between the special area teacher, the involved classroom teacher(s), and the building principal.
3.	Special area teachers are recognized as constituting part of the elementary or secondary school program and, where applicable, shall accrue working conditions and be provided the responsibilities allotted teachers in Article III, Sections B and E of this Agreement.
4.	Special area teachers shall be included in the duty schedule at the buildings to which they are assigned. On days that they travel between school buildings they shall be exempt from duty to the extent necessary to provided travel time between buildings.
E.	Secondary:
1.	The school day shall not exceed seven (7) hours, twenty (20) minutes. All teachers shall be in their buildings prior to the formal opening of the instructional day and following the formal closing of school in 5 and 10 minute blocks.
2.	All secondary teachers shall have a duty free lunch period of at least thirty (30) minutes.
13
3.	All classroom teachers shall have a duty free conference/preparation period equal in length to that of one (1) regular class assignment.
4.	Duties:
a.	All staff members have an equal responsibility for the general supervision of
students before and after school and during the passing of classes.
b.	All high school teachers shall share in the duty assignments as outlined in Article III, E-7. Teachers shall have the opportunity to rotate to a different duty assignment on a semester basis.
c.	Additional duties and/or exemptions from duties may be developed. Such duties will be assigned when agreed to mutually by the building principal and the Head Building Representative. These developed duties will be reviewed on an annual basis. Claims by teachers that duties are not being ’’equitably shared” shall be referred to the district-wide implementation process (Article V).
5.	Secondary teachers will have one full work day plus the weekend following the end of the first and third marking periods before the administration may require grades to be submitted.
6.	Secondary level administrators will attempt to develop master schedules with the concept of maintaining a five (5) class limitation, with exceptions applicable to the class structure of a particular building. Building administrators will consult with the affected teacher and department chairperson when exceptions apply.
7.	Duties (High School)
By the end of the third week of each semester, each building principal will submit to the Human Resources Office and the U.E.A. office a faculty roster identifying each U.E.A. member and his/her duty assignment. All the duties listed herein may not be implemented at each high school.
a.	The following duties are to be shared. Teachers shall have the opportunity to rotate these duties on a semester basis unless assigned a duty in 7.b:
1.	Cafeteria
2.	Hall
3.	Lavatory
b.	Duties that are not to be rotated on a semester basis. Teachers who hold the following positions shall perform their job during their duty times:
1.	Librarian
2.	Counselor
3.	Athletic Director
4.	Activities Director
5.	Co-op Coordinator
14
8.
6.	Yearbook
7.	Newspaper
8.	Debate
9.	Drama
10.	One UEA Representative (as designated in Article III
11.	Building Department Chairperson
12.	System-Wide Department Chairperson	'
13.	School Improvement/North Central Chairperson
c.	Claims of unfair duty assignment and/or rotation may be addressed in the
implementation process.
d.	Teachers having cafeteria duty will be given one of the following for each semester of cafeteria duty:
1.	Twenty consecutive days of no duty. This duty-free assignment will be rotated among those teachers on cafeteria duty during that hour.
2.	The teacher’s work day may be altered by arranging a flex schedule with the lunch period in either the first or eighth period of the day. In this situation, attendance during the period prior to the formal opening of school or following the formal closing of school shall exist in relationship to the second or seventh class period. This work schedule will exist during the semester that the teacher is performing lunch duty.
Jr. High School Duties - All teachers will be assigned a duty. Such duties shall include study hall/homeroom (2002-03), and lunch duty. Teachers who hold the following positions shall perform their job during their duty:
1.	Librarian
2.	Counselor
3.	Athletic Director
4.	Student Council
5.	Yearbook
6.	One UEA Representative (as designated in Article III)
Teachers taking a second duty in lieu of their lunch may be given the following for each semester of cafeteria duty:
a.	The teacher’s work day will be altered by arranging a flex schedule with the lunch period in either the first or seventh period of the day. In this situation, attendance during the period prior to the formal opening or closing of school shall exist in relationship to the second or sixth class period.
b.	This work schedule will exist only during the semester that the teacher is performing lunch duties.
c.	Junior high teachers assigned cafeteria duty may be relieved of one (1) of the required evening functions specified in Article III, A-5, for each semester
15
they perform cafeteria duty.
9.	Teachers assigned to a team will have an average of one extra period of preparation per week.
10.
11.
12.
13.
Junior High School Principals will schedule their building staff to provide,student supervision before and, when necessary, after school. The method of scheduling teachers to provide before and after school supervision shall be on a rotation basis. Teachers not scheduled to provide before school supervision may report ten (10) minutes before the formal opening of school and leave five (5) minutes after the formal closing.
Effort will be made to maintain the concept of not more than three (3) different preparations during a given block of time (i.e., 10 weeks, semester, full year). It is recognized that special programs may require exceptions to this preparation concept. When circumstances necessitate modification of the three preparations concept, changes may be made after consultation with an Association Representative.
During the term of this Agreement, the 6th assignment shall be voluntary on the part of the individual secondary teacher.
Secondary Departmental Organization:
a.	System-wide chairpersons will be appointed by the curriculum department for terms of two years.
b.	Building chairpersons will be recommended by the department committee on an annual basis with the building principal making the final determination. The principal will post the position of chairperson and the position will be filled within thirty calendar days of a receipt of the petition.
c.	System-wide and building chairpersons may be granted released time to properly perform their responsibilities. System-wide chairpersons teaching in the junior high may be granted five (5) days released time to perform their duties.
d.	All building and system-wide chairpersons shall be compensated according to Appendix IV.
e.	Chairpersons will assist in coordinating programs and materials and will serve as instructional liaisons between department members and the administration.
f.	Chairpersons may assist in in-service education programs for staff, but will not supervise or evaluate bargaining unit members.
14.	Each semester secondary principals shall generate a list of those teachers willing to substitute during their prep/conference period. Only if there are no volunteers to handle an in-building subbing assignment will the building principal make an involuntary assignment. Teachers who sub under this provision will be
16
compensated according to Appendix V, C.
15.	The administration will allocate five (5) school business days per building for the purpose of providing time during the normal work day for Junior High School Athletic Directors to complete their job responsibility. These days will be scheduled through the building principal with the System-Wide Athletic Director and the Human Resources Department.
F. Secondary Class Size:
1.	The Board of Education will maintain reasonable maximum class size in all secondary schools.
2.	The Board of Education agrees that no teacher’s student load will exceed a maximum of 155, except in the physical education, instrumental and vocal music departments. Individual classes will not exceed a maximum of 34 except in the physical education, instrumental and vocal music departments. Mutually agreed upon exceptions will be allowed to accommodate special techniques and/or programs. In the event the maximum is exceeded by one or more students, extra pay at the rate of $6.50 per student per five (5) days will be paid until such time as the class enrollment drops to or below the maximum student count. Administration will have a grace period of 10 days at the beginning of first semester and 5 days at the beginning of second semester to level class loads before the above language becomes operative. Payment for all class count overages will be paid at the first full payroll period following the end of each marking period.
3.	Physical education, instrumental and vocal music classes averaging fewer than 31 students per section may be combined with other classes exceeding 31 students per section to a maximum teacher load of 155. Physical education, instrumental and vocal music classes averaging 31 or more students per section may be combined with other classes averaging a maximum of 31 per section even if the total student load exceeds 155.
4.	In 10th, 11th, and 12th grade English classes, the Board agrees that no teacher’s student load will exceed a maximum of 145. Individual English classes will not exceed a maximum of 31.
Those who teach English and another academic discipline, will have their English classes capped at 31 and limited to an average of 29. The maximum student count of 145 in English and 155 in other areas will be computed on a fractional basis. Example: A teacher with two English and three social studies classes will have no more than a total of 2/5 of 145 and 3/5 of 155 - 151 students.
5.	Effort will be made to maintain the concept of balancing or leveling of students among the teacher’s class sections.
6.	When a teacher voluntarily accepts a sixth assignment the provisions contained in this Section F-2 are not operative.
7.	When a teacher requests that the administration allow the maximum student load to
17
be exceeded Sections F-2 and F-4 ate not operative.
8.	Teachers with partial schedules will have a maximum average of 31 students times the number of classes they teach and an individual cap of 34 students.
9.	Counselor caseloads will be subject to the Letter of Agreement found in Appendix IX.
ARTICLE IV
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	Definition:
1.	Any claim by a teacher or the Association that there has been a violation, misinterpretation, or misapplication of the specific and expressed terms of this Agreement, a violation of the right to fair treatment under the terms of this Agreement, established Board policy governing teachers, or a complaint concerning disciplinary action not covered by the Tenure Act, shall be a grievance and shall be resolved through the procedure set forth therein.
2.	An Aggrieved Person shall mean the person or persons who are members of the bargaining unit covered by this contract and shall include probationary employees. Non-renewal of a contract for first and second year teachers shall be excluded from arbitration when the non-renewal is based on a less than satisfactory evaluation. Non-renewal is grievable and arbitrable when the evaluation process and procedures are not followed.
3.	A Party of Interest shall mean the person or persons making the complaint and/or any person who might be required to take action, or against whom action might be taken, in order to resolve the grievance.
4.	The term Days in this article shall mean teacher work days, except where otherwise indicated.
5.	Forms for filing and processing a grievance shall be designed by the Superintendent of Schools and the Grievance Committee. They will make provisions for the description of the alleged contract violation (time, place, circumstance, etc.) suggested solution and other such information that both parties deem necessary. Such forms shall be prepared by the Superintendent, and shall be given appropriate distribution so as to facilitate the operation of the grievance procedure.
6.	The following matters shall not be the basis of any grievance filed under the procedure outlined in this article. Any complaint for which there is another remedial procedure or forum established by law or regulation having the force of law, including any matter subject to the procedures specified in the Michigan Teacher Tenure Act.
18
7.	The primary purpose of this grievance procedure is to secure as rapidly as possible equitable solutions at the closest supervisory level possible. Both the Association and the Board agree that these proceedings shall be kept as confidential as may be appropriate at each level of the procedure. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as limiting the right of any teacher with a legitimate grievance to discuss the matter informally with his/her immediate supervisor as described in Level One of the procedure.
8.	It is important that grievances be processed through the steps as rapidly as possible. The number of days indicated at each step should be considered as the maximum and every effort should be made to expedite the process. If the Association as the moving party fails to comply with the time limit the grievance shall be considered setded on the basis of the Board’s last written answer to the grievance. If the Board as the responding party fails to comply with any time limit, at any step, the grievance shall automatically pass to the next step in the grievance procedure. The parties may, however, in writing mutually agree to extend the time limit at any step.
9.	At Level Three and above, there shall be a meeting between the Board’s representative and the Association or its designated representative, in an effort to resolve the grievance. The aggrieved person shall not be present at such meetings unless the representative of the Board and Association mutually agree that this presence is necessary.
10.	The Association may position a grievance at Level Three, if in their opinion, the grievance represents a class action.
B.	General Principles:
1.	Any teacher who is a member of the bargaining unit covered under this contract, or any group of such teachers, or the Association believing that they are aggrieved, may file a grievance in accordance with the principles and procedures designated in this article.
2.	In processing grievances, released time may be granted only upon mutual consent by the aggrieved person, the Association, and the Superintendent. Such released time shall be without loss of pay.
3.	The Association shall establish a Grievance Committee. Any member of the Grievance Committee who shall be a party of interest to any grievance, shall be disqualified and a substitute shall be named by the Association, except in any case where such a large group of teachers is involved, as to make this impractical. No more than three (3) members of the Grievance Committee or three (3) members of administration may be present during grievance proceedings except by mutual consent of the Association and the Board representatives, provided, however legal counsel or officials of the M.E.A. may participate at Level Three and above.
4.	A grievance may be withdrawn at any level without prejudice.
5.	If, in the judgment of the Grievance Committee, a grievance affects a group of teachers, the committee may process the grievance at the appropriate level up to
19
Level Three.
6.	Upon failure of the aggrieved person or Association to file the grievance within the limits specified in the succeeding section of this article, it shall be conclusively presumed that said incident or grievance has been satisfactorily resolved.
7.	The President of the Association must, in writing, supply the names of the
Grievance Committee to the Board before the Board has a duty to deal with them. The Association may change or add a designated representative by giving ten (10) days prior, written notice to the Board. Such change shall not affect any grievance in process.
C.	Procedure:
1.	LEVEL ONE - Any teacher will first discuss the problem with the appropriate
administrator within five (5) work days of the alleged act with the objective of resolving the matter informally. Said teacher may be accompanied or represented by an Association representative.
2.	LEVEL TWO - In the event the teacher is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Level One, or if no decision has been rendered within five (5) work days of the presentation of the grievance, said teacher may file the grievance in writing with the Association's Grievance Committee with a copy to the appropriate administrator. The appropriate administrator shall initial and date the form. If a dispute shall arise as to the time of filing, such initialing shall be conclusive evidence of the date of its receipt. The filing with the Grievance Committee and initialing of the copy by the appropriate administrator, must occur within five (5) work days of the decision rendered at Level One or the expiration of time limit at Level One. The appropriate administrator shall meet on the grievance within five (5) work days of receipt of the written grievance at Level Two. This meeting may be attended by not more than the grievant, two representatives of the Association and two representatives of the Board. Within five (5) work days from the meeting the appropriate administrator shall render a decision in writing to the grievant.
3.	LEVEL THREE - In the event the Association is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Level Two, or in the event no decision has been tendered within five (5) work days after the meeting at Level Two, the grievance procedure may be further invoked by presenting the written grievance through the Grievance Committee to the Superintendent of Schools or designated representative. Such action must be taken within five (5) work days of receipt of the decision at Level Two or of the expiration of the time limit for rendering such decision. Within ten (10) work days from receipt of the grievance at Level Three, the Superintendent or designee shall hold a meeting with the Association to discuss the grievance. A decision shall be rendered by the District within ten (10) work days of the meeting held at Level Three.
4.	LEVEL FOUR - In the event the Association disagrees with the decision of the Superintendent at Level Three, such grievance may be appealed to arbitration. Written notice of such appeal is to be given to the Superintendent or designee within five (5) work days of the decision at the Level Three.
20
■(■■I
4.1	Arbitration shall be conducted under the auspices of the American Arbitration Association, the conduct of said hearing shall be controlled by its rules. Neither party shall be permitted to assert in such arbitration proceeding any ground or to rely on any evidence not disclosed to the other side at least by the third step.
4.2	The arbitrator shall have no power ot authority to add to, subtract from, alter or modify the terms of this Agreement nor to change any practice, policy, or rule of the board, not to substitute his/her judgment as to the reasonableness of any such practice, policy or rule. The arbitrator shall be limited to deciding whether or not there has been a violation of the terms of the Articles, and sections of this Agreement and any binding past practices which exist between the parties. The Arbitrator shall not create obligations and conditions binding on the parties from this Agreement, it being understood that any matter not specifically set forth herein remains within the reserved rights of the Board.
4.3	The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties within the arbitrator's jurisdiction. The arbitrator shall be requested to issue his written decision within thirty (30) calendar days after conclusion of testimony and argument. Both parties agree to be bound by the decision of the arbitrator. The fees of the American Arbitration Association and the fees and expenses of the arbitrator will be paid one-half (1/2) by the Association and one-half (1/2) by the Board, and all other expenses shall be borne by the party incurring them.
5.	EXPEDITED ARBITRATION - Both parties to this Agreement may mutually agree to process a grievance at Level Four to expedite arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted under the auspices of the American Arbitration Association, the conduct of said hearing shall be controlled by its rules.
5.1	Neither party shall be permitted to assert in such arbitration proceeding any ground or to rely on any evidence not disclosed to the other side by the Level Three.
5.2	The arbitrator shall have no power or authority to add to, subtract from, alter or modify the terms of this Agreement.
5.3	The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties
within the arbitrator's jurisdiction. The arbitrator shall be requested to issue his written decision within thirty (30) calendar days after conclusion of testimony and argument. Both parties agree to be bound by the decision of the arbitrator. The fees of the American Arbitration Association and the fees and expenses of the arbitrator will be paid one-half (112) by the Association and one-half (1/2) by the Board, and all other expenses shall be borne by the party incurring them.
21
ARTICLE V
IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES
A.	District Level Meetings:
1.	Implementation meetings shall be held between representatives of the Board and the Utica Education Association negotiating teams, when requested by either team, however, neither party shall be required to meet more than one (1) meeting per month.
2.	The purpose of these meetings will be to review the administration of the contract and resolve any problems that are not of a grievance nature. It is intended that these meetings will produce a high level of mutual understanding and that problems will be resolved on an equitable basis.
3.	All meetings between the parties regularly scheduled to take place as prompdy as possible at a time when the teachers involved are free from assigned instructional responsibilities unless otherwise requested by either the Association or the Board of Education. The rescheduling will take place within ten (10) days of the request from the Association or the Board of Education at other than instructional time unless otherwise mutually agreed.
4.	When a mutually acceptable amendment of the Agreement results, it will become valid when ratified by the general membership of the Association.
B.	School Building Meetings:
1.	Implementation meetings shall be held between the Utica Education Association building representative and the building principal when requested by either party, however, neither party shall be required to meet more than (1) meeting per month.
2.	The purpose of the meetings will be to review the administration of the Agreement relating to the individual building and to resolve any problems that may arise.
3.	These meetings are not intended to by-pass the grievance procedure.
4.	Either party may require that representatives of both negotiation teams be present.
5.	Problems upon which agreement cannot be reached will be referred to the District
Level Implementation Meetings.
6.	Any solutions arrived at must be consistent with the provisions of the Master Agreement.
C.	Special Education, Elementary Specialists Department Implementation Meetings:
1.	Implementation Meetings shall be held between the U.E.A. Department Representative and the appropriate director when requested by either party, however, neither party shall be required to meet more than one (1) meeting per
22
month.
2.	The purpose of the meetings will be to review the administration of the Agreement relating to the individual teacher and/or departments and to resolve any problems that may arise.
3.	These meetings are not intended to by-pass the grievance procedure.	‘
4.	Either party may require that representatives of both negotiation teams be present.
5.	Problems upon which agreement cannot be reached will be referred to the District Level Implementation Meetings.
6.	Any solutions arrived at must be consistent with the provisions of the Master Agreement.
D.	Refusal of a reasonable request to meet shall be referred to the Superintendent and the Utica Education Association President.
ARTICLE VI
STAFF DEVELOPMENT
A.	Recognizing the need to reassign personnel and the Board's responsibility to retrain such personnel, the following program is agreed to.
B.	Staff Development is a program to enhance the expertise and competence of the professional staff by retraining reassigned personnel The program is intended to assist in developing new technical and human skills. The district recognizes the importance of quality education and encourages, through adequate funding, the Staff Development Program.
C.	Procedure:
1.	The program is not intended to qualify an individual for salary increment or additional degree payroll status.
2.	During the summer of each year, the district will provide retraining session(s) for staff reassigned, transferred or placed in new areas/levels, examples: (lower elementary to upper elementary or the reverse, elementary to secondary or the reverse; or from one teaching discipline to another in whole or in part; examples: Math to Home Economics, Science to Auto Mechanics, Research Center to Second Grade, Social Worker to Junior High School Music, etc.).
3.	This retraining session(s) shall be planned with the cooperation of the Association and will be offered to all affected members as described in Section 6 of this Article, on a voluntary basis at no cost to the member.
4.	In addition to using district resources, outside consultants, and/or other qualified
23
personnel may be used to conduct the retraining session(s).
5.	Additional retraining sessions, not intended to replace or postpone the summer session(s), may be scheduled and provided during the school year.
6.	Nothing in this Article shall prohibit the Board from offering the opportunity of attending seminars, workshops, classes, etc., to individual members or groups of members, so as to obtain similar retraining.
ARTICLE VII
PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
A.	New teachers employed by the Board for a regular teaching assignment will hold a Bachelors Degree from an accredited college or university and a valid Michigan Teaching Certificate.
B.	Exceptions to this provision shall be vocational education personnel who are authorized to teach by the State Board of Education in their respective area.
C.	The Association shall be notified, within 30 days of hiring, of any teacher who is employed with other than a permanent or provisional certificate.
D.	Counselors, school psychologists, social workers, speech therapists, and other school support service professionals shall be fully licensed and/or certified as required by the state of Michigan to provide services in the public schools.
E.	During the first semester of each school year, the District will notify each teacher of the date that his/her certification is scheduled to expire. Certification is the teacher’s responsibility. Failure to be certified may result in termination of employment.
24
ARTICLE VIII
TEACHER EVALUATION
A.	It is the administration’s responsibility to assist teachers in becoming oriented to the evaluation process and to improve instruction through observation of the teacher’s work and providing written summaries of those observations together with any recommendations the administrator may have for the teacher.
B.	Each bargaining unit member will be apprised of his/her teaching responsibilities. Teachers will also be apprised of any additional responsibilities and evaluation criteria at the commencement of the school year or when otherwise appropriate.
C.	All monitoring or observation of the work performance of a teacher shall be conducted openly
and with full knowledge of the teacher.
D.	The administration shall base its evaluation of teacher performance on formal and informal observation and other disclosed methods of evaluation.
E.	Prior to June 1, the administration shall prepare and submit written evaluations per section G. below. If the administrator believes a teacher is doing unacceptable work, the administrator (and where appropriate with teacher input) shall identify areas needing improvement and shall set forth ways in which the teacher is to improve and the assistance which will be provided for attaining said improvement. Failure to use reasonable techniques for improvement which were suggested or mutually agreed to will be documented by written report, a copy of which will be submitted to the teacher.
F.	If an evaluation points out questionable characteristics of the teacher in any manner and the teacher does not agree with the evaluation, the teacher will have the opportunity to answer the evaluation in writing to the appropriate administrator, with a copy placed in the teacher’s personnel file.
G.	The building principal and the appropriate administrator is responsible for executing a written evaluation of all personnel in his/her building at least once every three (3) years. The Board will inform the Association within the first two weeks of school which administrator will be designated to execute the evaluation of all Special Education, Special Area, and Special Program teachers. Responsibilities of the administration in the area of evaluation include:
1.	Acquainting employees with evaluation devices and procedures during the first five (5) weeks of school or when otherwise appropriate.
2.	Evaluating probationary teachers at least once each year.
3.	Each formal observation for teachers will consist of at least one (1) class period or
instructional unit.
4.	Executing written evaluation, forwarding copies to the Superintendent and the teacher evaluated, maintaining personnel files of past reports for each employee.
25
H.	The Board and the Association recognize the need to provide positive assistance for a teacher receiving a less than satisfactory evaluation.
I.	The Board and the Association recognize that a student’s academic progress is a combined result of school, home, economic and social environment and that teachers alone ate not responsible for all aspects of academic achievement.
J.	In the event that the present teacher evaluation instrument is to be revised or replaced, it shall be submitted to a joint committee of teachers and administrators. The proposed instrument shall be referred by the joint committee to the appropriate curriculum committee for review and recommendations prior to the submission to the Superintendent.
K.	Any review or revision of the evaluation process shall be submitted to a joint committee of administrators and teachers for the purpose of developing new evaluation techniques and criteria. The criteria might include the following:
1.	Knowledge of the subject area
2.	Ability to impart said knowledge
3.	Manner and efficacy of discipline over students
4.	Rapport with parents and other teachers
5.	Physical and mental ability to withstand strains of teaching
L.	Each teacher shall have the right upon request to review the contents of all his/her own personnel files in the presence of an appropriate administrator and in accordance with applicable laws.
M.	Materials which shall be identified, but not shared in totality will include pre-employment credentials from educational institutions and previous employers.
N.	The Superintendent shall maintain complete cumulative files on all bargaining unit personnel. He/she shall also maintain up-to-date records pertaining to contractual status, performance of duties, tenure status and other such information.
O.	Each administrator shall contribute to the employee cumulative files in accordance with his/her administrative duties.
1.	Records of a positive nature, including supervisor reports, memos and letters to the employee, plus other miscellaneous evidence of successful service.
2.	Records of unsatisfactory performance which may lead to demotion, suspension, dismissal or denial of a leave of absence request, must be specific in content, signed by the administrator, and a copy furnished to the employee. The employee shall acknowledge receipt of said report by signing it.
3.	An individual teacher shall have the right to recommend the removal of material from his/her personnel file that is over four (4) years old.
P.	Mentor teachers shall not be involved in the evaluation process contained in this Article.
26
ARTICLE IX
DISCIPLINARY SUPPORT AND PROTECTION OF TEACHERS
A.	Protection of Teachers:	<
1.	Acceptable student behavior is a primary concern of the Board of Education. It is the aim of the Board of Education, administration, and instructional staff to promote through its policies and regulations the highest possible standard of conduct and an atmosphere for good instruction. The Board shall promulgate rules and regulations setting forth the procedures to be utilized in disciplining, suspending or expelling students for misbehavior. Such rules and regulations shall be distributed by the employer to teachers at the commencement of the school year. A written statement by the Board governing use of corporal punishment, the detention of students and disciplining of students shall be publicized to all teachers no later than the first week of each school year.
2.	Each staff member is expected to take an active part in promoting proper student behavior in the classroom and throughout the school building and grounds. Teacher authority and effectiveness in the classroom are enhanced when students discover that there is administrative backing and support of the teacher. The Board recognizes its responsibility to give reasonable support and assistance to teachers with respect to the maintenance of control and discipline of students.
3.	Any case of assault and/or battery upon a teacher shall be promptly reported to the Board or its designated representative. The Board shall provide legal counsel to advise the teacher of his/her rights and obligations with respect to assault and/or battery, (but shall not render any additional legal services) and shall render all reasonable assistance to the teacher in connection with the handling of the incident by law enforcement and judicial authorities.
4.	Any complaint against a teacher by a parent, student or other person will be promptly called to the attention of the teacher and the identity of the plaintiff and specific reference to the nature of the complaint revealed to the teacher. The teacher has the right to explain and defend himself/herself. No action against a teacher shall be taken on the basis of a complaint nor any notice thereof shall be included in the teacher’s personnel file, unless the matter is first reported to the teacher in writing.
5.	Time lost by a teacher in connection with any incident mentioned in this article shall not be charged against the teacher unless the teacher is found guilty of the criminal or civil charge in a court of competent jurisdiction as related to the incident.
B.	Disciplinary Support:
1.	Nothing is more important to the attainment of a good education than regular attendance in class. Cooperation is needed between parents, school personnel and students to insure that every student attends class. It is the Board’s responsibility to
27
promulgate policies, rules and regulations pertaining to student attendance which will encourage students to maintain high levels of school attendance. Excessive tardiness or absenteeism may be deemed sufficient ground to deny student advancement, promotion or graduation.
2.	Teachers may use such force as is necessary to protect themselves, a fellow teacher, district employee or administrator or a student from attack, physical abuse or injury.
3.	Since teachers have responsibility to maintain order and control within the classroom, and general responsibility to maintain proper student behavior on school property, teachers should take necessary action to assist the student to modify inappropriate behavior. Such corrective measures might include, but not be limited to, the following.
a.	Teacher-student conference
b.	Parent-teacher conference
c.	Preferential seating
d.	Consultation with other professional staff
e.	Student detention
f.	Special projects
4.	A teacher may refer a pupil to the principal’s office for persistent misbehavior when the disruptive effects of the behavior make the continued presence of the student in the classroom intolerable. The teacher will provide the principal with a detailed report which should include description of the student’s behavior and previous actions taken to modify or correct that behavior. The principal will provide the teacher a written response which should outline the action taken regarding the teacher’s complaint.
5.	When the seriousness of a specific incident or persistent disobedience makes the continued presence of the student in the class a disruptive influence on the educational process, a teacher may remove a pupil from the class to the principal’s office or other supervised area. In such cases, the teacher will furnish the principal, as prompdy as employment obligations will allow, full particulars of the incident in writing. A student temporarily excluded from class for incidents of serious misconduct will not be readmitted to class until after the building administrator and teacher have a conference to discuss the incident causing the student’s exclusion. However, the teacher may waive the required conference.
6.	Individual records will be maintained on student discipline both by the teacher and the administrator and will be mutually available as an aid in future determinations. The record shall contain a description of the incident involved, action taken, date and time.
7.	No student’s grades shall be changed without notification being given to the teacher involved. Upon notification of said change, the teacher may request a meeting with the building principal to be advised of the reason for said change and to be allowed to discuss the necessity of said grade change.
8.	Detention of a student at the end of a school day will follow prescribed Board of
28
L will ness
er, iry.
tool
ted
Education policy.
C.	In initiating reprimands and/or disciplinary action against a teacher the administration will be
bound by die concept of just cause - the test of which shall be whether the Board ot its agent had reasonable grounds for initiating the reprimand or disciplinary action.
D.	No teacher shall be disciplined within view or hearing of students, teachers and/or	4
parents.
1.	Any teacher who may require disciplinary action shall first be contacted in private.
2.	Any teacher has the right to have a representative of the Association present during the time that the teacher is being reprimanded or disciplined.
3.	If any further disciplinary action is required, the principal may then refer the matter to the Superintendent in writing, in triplicate, dated: one copy to the Superintendent, one to the building principal and one copy to the teacher involved.
hen it in
ie
e
Ts pal, :in
and
L.
ind is.
te
cher with ved
ARTICLE X
ASSIGNMENT
In an attempt to promote quality education, teachers shall be assigned to teaching positions within the scope of their teaching certificate, their major and minor and criteria of the North Central Association.
A.	Assignment shall be defined as the assignment of class schedules, grade level and/or departments to individual teachers.
B.	All teachers will be given notice of their schedules and/or assignment for the next year, not
later than the last scheduled day of school in June. Teachers may request of the building principal, a review of their assignment prior to the beginning of the subsequent school year. If the proposed assignment is changed when school is in summer recess, the affected teachers will be consulted and/ot notified by certified mail.
Assignment pending status shall qualify for the purposes of Article X, B. Unassigned teachers and teachers returning from leave will be given assignments according to their certification, major/minors, and North Central Association accreditation standards.
C.	For the purpose of this Article teachers shall be grouped as follows:
1	• Regular education and special education teachers assigned to buildings. Assignment of these teachers will be the responsibility of the building principal.
2.	Special area teachers (elementary art, instrumental and vocal music, foreign language, and physical education). Assignment of these teachers will be the responsibility of the Curriculum Department.
>f
29
3.
Special service teachers (psychologists, social workers elementary T.C.'s, homebound, speech therapists, work study coordinators, physical therapists, occupational therapists). Assignment of these teachers will be the responsibility of the Special Education Department.
4.	Special program teachers (A.T.G., Montessori, ELL, Title I, Begindergatten, reading consultants). Assignment of these teachers will be the responsibility of the ■
Curriculum Department.
D.	Co-Curricular Assignments. Any co-curricular assignments beyond the normal teaching schedule during the regular school year shall not be obligatory, but shall be made only with the consent of the teachers. Preference in making such new assignments will be given to teachers regularly employed in the district.
E.	At the secondary level teaching assignments in instrumental music, vocal music, drama, debate and forensics carry an obligation to conduct the co-curricular activities associated with their assignment which are specified in Appendix IV. The acceptance of this obligation is inherent in the acceptance of the regular class assignment.
ARTICLE XI
TRANSFER
A.	TRANSFER
1.	A transfer shall be defined as a change in work location or special department as tipulated in Article X, Section C. 1., 2., 3., or 4.
2.	Transfer for administrative purposes shall be made fot the following reasons:
a.	To ensure an equitable distribution of teachers based on sex, experience, race and certification.
b.	To avoid layoffs pursuant to Article XVII.
c.	When it is reasonably necessary to carry out the curriculum needs of the district.
d.	For the re-assignment of a teacher to a more productive teaching experience.
3.	Transfer forms will be available from the teacher's immediate supervisor/building administrator. Transfer requests are to be submitted to the Human Resources Department by May 1.
4.	Student enrollment projections and tentative staff allocations will be provided by May 15th for the forthcoming school year. A copy of the projections and tentative allocations will be provided to the U.E.A. President.
a. The Board will attempt to identify staff reductions in buildings and special
30
a.	The Board will attempt to identify staff reductions in buildings and special departments by May 15th.
le s
te
t
b.	Staff being administratively transferred due to lack of an assignment shall
have the right to:
1)	Bump the least senior employee in the building or department as specified in Article X, C, 1., 2., 3. or 4.; that the bumping employee can meet requirements of the assignment as defined in Article X.
2)	Accept the non-assigned status.
3)	Teachers who had been placed in a non-assigned status shall have the right to vacancies which occur or are created for which they are certified/qualified (Article X) through August 15th of each school year.
5.	It is recognized that frequent transfers of teachers from one school to another is disruptive to the educational process and interferes with optimum teacher performance.
6.	Copies of all transfer requests will be forwarded to the Association president within five (5) days of final action.
7.	Transfer procedures when closing schools:
a.	When merging two (2) similar buildings, the staffs of the two (2) buildings shall be considered as one (1) in identifying the teacher(s) not assigned.
b.	When merging more than two (2) similar buildings, the staffs of the closing building(s) will be merged on a prorated basis, consistent with the distribution of the students, according to seniority, certification, major/minor and, where applicable, the requirements of the North Central Association.
8.	Teachers who request a transfer shall be notified of the final disposition of their request no later than ten (10) days prior to the first scheduled teacher work day.
B.	VACANCY:
1.	For the purpose of this Article a vacancy will be defined as any position to which a
teacher is not assigned.
2.	Positions which become vacant between the beginning of the school year and the end of the first semester and are known to extend to the end of the school year will be posted and made available to voluntary transfers, EXCEPT:
a.	Where the position is to be eliminated.
b.	Where the position will be filled by a teacher returning from leave or recalled from layoff.
c.	Where the position is being held for a person on a compensable leave of
31
T’r' ’ ,q
absence.
3.	Decisions to eliminate a vacant position or offer a position to a laid off teacher will be determined within five (5) working days of the position becoming vacant.
4	Positions offered for potential voluntary transfers will be posted on the Utica Community Schools website, in all buildings and sent to the Utica Education Association Office. The vacancy will be posted for five (5) working days from the date of the posting. The vacancy will be awarded within fifteen (15) working days of the expiration of the posting.
ARTICLE XII
CURRICULUM STANDING COMMITTEES
A.	The Board recognizes that teachers are well qualified to assist in formulating policies and programs in curriculum. It is important therefore that structures and procedures be established to insure that teachers have ample opportunity to become actively involved in the areas of curriculum development and instruction.
B.	The Board of Education therefore will cooperate in the continuance of the following Standing Committees:
1.	Central Curriculum Council.
2.	Steering Committees:
a.	Elementary Steering Committee
b.	Secondary Steering Committee
C.	STRUCTURE
1.	The Central Curriculum Council will be composed of seven (7) appropriate teachers
appointed by the Association, a teacher chair appointed by the Association, and seven (7) appropriate administrators appointed by the Superintendent or designee. In any issues voted upon by the Council, the chair will cast a vote only in case of a tie.
2.	The Secondary Steering Committee shall consist of seven (7) teachers appointed by the Association, a teacher chair appointed by the Association and seven (7) administrators appointed by the Superintendent or designee. In any issues voted upon by the Committee, the chair will cast a vote only in case of a tie.
3.	The Elementary Steering Committee shall consist of seven (7) teachers appointed by the Association, a teacher chair appointed by the Association and seven (7) administrators appointed by the Superintendent or designee. In any issues voted upon by the Committee, the chair will cast a vote only in case of a tie.
32
4.	Membership of the Curriculum Council, Secondary Steering, and Elementary Steering, shall include at least one UEA member and one administrator member
[1	from Special Education.
5.	The importance of building, subject area and grade level or department representation should be given high consideration in the Association appointments.
6.	Central Curriculum Council, Secondary Steering and Elementary Committees will of	meet up to nine (9) meetings after school per year, October through June. The
committee members will receive compensation at the rate of $40 per meeting.
7.	Central Curriculum Council may schedule meetings during the summer months (June through August) on a need basis.
8.	All members of the curriculum committees and council shall be provided one day of release time for organizational tasks.
D.	Purpose of the Curriculum Steering Committees:
ed	.	.	.	.	...
1.	The curriculum committees are advisory in nature. The final responsibility for the adoption of curriculum reposes with the Board of Education.
2.	All major revisions, pilot projects and new programs whether initiated by teachers or administrators shall be presented in writing to the appropriate Steering Committee.
3	This will include the format of the proposal, rationale behind it and means by which it will be implemented and evaluated.
4.	The Curriculum Steering Committees will forward their recommendations to the Central Curriculum Council.
5.	They will report to the Board of Education through the Superintendent in matters requiring its action. They will call attention to the curricula matters considered important to the school district and provide continuous evaluation of on-going programs. Their evaluation will consist of, but not be limited to, current educational research, philosophy and direct teacher observations. They will serve as a channel of communication among the school community to bring about better understanding in directions about instructional matters.
E.	Constitution, by-laws and procedures will be determined by the committees.
F.	The members of the Committees are expected to communicate fully and freely with those they represent.
y	G. Participation of teachers in the site based decision making process will be voluntary.
33
1
ARTICLE XIII
SENIORITY
A.	For the purposes of this Collective Bargaining Agreement seniority is defined as "service credit".	■
B.	Service credit will be adjusted for all dock time equal to the amount of the dock.
C.	Service credit is computed from the first day worked and from the last date of hire as a
bargaining unit employee. The date of signing an individual contract and/or the date of formal approval by the Board of Education is not a determining factor.
D.	Computation of Service Credit:
1.	Prior to June 12,1982 - service credit will be granted on a full-time basis for all employees who were actively working whether they were full time or less than full time.
2.	Effective June 12,1982 - service credit will be granted on actual time worked in a bargaining unit assignment.
E.	Seniority list will be published on November 1st of each school year and will be posted on the UEA bulletin board in every building. This list will be a total seniority list of all employees listed in descending order. A copy will be given to the UEA president.
F.	The seniority list will include the following information:
1.	Name
2.	Date of last hire.
3.	Service credit (as of the previous June 30th).
4.	Certification (as filed with the district's	Human Resources Office).
5.	Starting 1984-85 school year - major(s) and minor(s).
G.	Challenges to the posted seniority list may be made through the Utica Community School Human Resources Department. Forms for such challenges will be developed and printed by the Human Resources Department. Copies of all challenges will be forwarded to the UEA office. Challenges must be made within twenty (20) working days from the posting of the seniority list.
H.	Service credit will not accumulate during the periods of lay off or periods of noncompensated leaves.
I.	Service credit shall accumulate to employees during periods of sabbatical leave, compensated sick leave, association leaves of absence and while on assignment in an administrative position. At the commencement of the 1984-85 school year, previously accumulated seniority within the bargaining unit shall be retained, but no additional seniority will accumulate during any period when a former bargaining unit member is employed in a supervisory/administrative nonbargaining position.
34
Service credit will terminate upon the individual's:
1.	Resignation/discharge
2.	Retirement
3.	Failure to return to work after verifiable receipt of a recall notice. This subsection shall not apply to persons employed by a Michigan Public School System at the time of recall.
4.	Failure to return to work at the expiration of an approved non-compensated leave of absence.
mal
[
K.	If more than one employee has the same service credit, their service credit status shall be determined by alphabetical order of their name, starting with the surname.
1.	For the purpose of this Article the employee's name shall be that which is on file in
the Human Resources Office as of date of final ratification. New hires will use the name on their original contract.
2.	The alphabetical order will not be the regular order of the alphabet, but determined by arranging the letters in order of a draw of numbers from one through twenty-six.
L.	The use of the Utica alphabetical order mentioned in this Article was established and placed in use as of June, 1983, and is contained in Appendix IX.
he
ARTICLE XIV
y
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
A.	General Principles:
1.	Leaves will be granted in accordance with specified provisions for each type of such leave as hereinafter provided.
2.	Compensated leaves will be provided for the primary purpose of protecting an employee’s income and assignment during protracted periods of unavoidable absence, as hereinafter provided in this contract.
3.	All leaves shall be for a definite period with a specific termination date. Teachers being granted such leave shall be required to report to duty upon the termination thereof.
d ?n. the
>d
4.	Leaves will be granted when approved by the Board of Education for periods exceeding one (1) semester. The teacher must submit reaffirmation of intention to return or a renewal application at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the leave.
5.	Leaves of one (1) semester or less will be granted when approved by the
Superintendent.
35
6.	The parties agree that abuses which defeat the purpose for which the leave exists are violative of the ethical standards of the teaching profession and are intolerable to the public responsibility reposed in the Board of Education.
7.	It is agreed that the use of leave days will be strictly confined to the legitimate purposes specified in the leaves as outlined herein. It is understood that any teacher found to have violated these restrictions will be charged with a major offense which exposes him/her to possible disciplinary action.
8.	Annual Accumulation:
a.	Teachers shall be entitled to a sick leave accumulation of 11 days per school year. Six days shall be placed at the disposal of each teacher at the beginning of first semester and five days shall be placed at the disposal of each teacher at the beginning of second semester.
b.	If a teacher leaves the employ of the UCS during a school year, their leave will be pro-rated one (1) day per month of employment and one-half (1 /2) day for the completion of each semster of employment—total days per year = 11. A day is earned when the teacher receives his/her regular pay for at least fifty (50) percent of the scheduled work days in the month. Should a teacher use sick leave days to which the teacher is not entitled, the teacher shall reimburse the District for those days.
9.	Longevity Accumulation:
Unused sick leave left over at the end of the school year shall be accumulated to each teacher’s credit.
B.	Non-Compensated Leaves:
1.	Military Leaves:
Military Leaves will be granted and re-employment will be governed by the provisions of the Universal Military Training Act.
2.	Physical and Mental Incapacity:
Leaves of absence will be granted for physical and mental incapacity when the following conditions are met:
a.	Teachers are responsible to inform the School Administration of the health-connected reason for any absence as promptly as possible. A tenure teacher may, at any time prior to the expiration of the paid-for sick leave, request in writing extended leave of absence terminating at a specified date.
b.	Should extension of a leave terminating at the end of the school year be required, a renewal application, along with the physician’s certification, must be submitted before the close of school.
c.	In the event a teacher, who is absent on leave which terminates at the end of
36
a school year, recovers and is released by the attending physician so as to return to work before the expiration of the leave, then said teacher shall have to notify the Human Resources Office in writing of this intention to return. Such application must be supported by a report from the attending physician certifying that the teacher is fully recovered and capable of performing the functions and duties of his position. This notice shall be given as much in advance of the teacher's intended return as possible.
d.	Upon the effective date of the physician's release, the teacher shall be placed for immediate appointment to the first available position for which he/she is qualified or be promptly referred to the Board's selected physician for examination.
e.	Teachers who do not report recovery when released by the attending physician for return to duty or who refuse to accept an available opening offered or who fail to request extension of leave, and do not report for duty upon such expiration, shall be subject to termination as an employee.
3.	Child Care Leave:
a.	Leaves of absence may be granted for six months to one (1) year.
b.	The date of leaving shall be agreed upon by the employee and their principal or supervisor based upon the best interests of the school and the employee provided they are able to fulfill all conditions of employment, with consideration given to the closeness of a vacation period, report card marking, or to the end of the semester. In the event agreement is not reached the date of leaving will be determined by the Superintendent. The continuity of instruction and the personnel needs of a school as well as the health of the employee, are factors which will be considered in establishing the termination date.
c.	An extension of a leave may be granted provided that the application for
such extension is made before scheduled return to work from the child care leave. A written notification by the teacher of the their intent to return to work shall be submitted to the Human Resources Department at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the leave. Any combination of child care leave and extension of same cannot exceed two (2) years. An employee will not receive scheduled increases in salary or seniority credit during such leaves.
d.	Return from child care leave prior to the termination of the leave may be approved. Refusal to accept an appointment they are offered, for which they are qualified, will result in termination of employment.
e.	An employee adopting a child may receive a leave under this provision which shall commence upon entry of an order by the probate court awarding custody to the adopting parent.
4.	Consent leaves for periods of up to one year other than those provided for in the
37

above sections may be granted when possible and shall be for a definite period with a specific termination date. Employees being granted such leaves shall be required to report for duty upon the termination thereof. Denial of consent leaves shall not be a matter for grievance procedure. Consent leaves are limited to five (5) at any given time.
5.	A teacher may be granted a leave of absence for up to a maximum of one (1) year for the purpose of exploring the possibility of making a ’’career change”. Teaching in another public school system shall not be considered a career change unless the employment is out of state. Requests for career leaves shall be submitted prior to May 1st.
6.	A teacher shall be granted a ’’Public Service” leave when elected or appointed to a full-time public office. Such leaves shall be one year or the length of term of office and may be renewed upon request.
C.	Understanding Non-Comp:
1.	Non-compensable leaves and/or days off without pay shall adjust service credit on a day per day basis.
2.	Non-compensable leaves and/or days off without pay shall adjust increment credit
only when the period of time is ten (10) consecutive work days or greater. This adjustment will not apply to who are on unpaid medical leave or on family medical leave (FMLA). If, in the years prior to this Master Agreement, any teacher had his/her increment date adjusted due to unpaid medical leave days or Family Medical Leave, he/she shall have the increment payment re-adjusted. If the adjusted date now falls prior to November 1, the increment payment shall be re-adjusted to the beginning of the school year. If the adjusted date now falls between November 1 and January 31, the increment payment shall be re-adjusted to November 1. If the adjusted date now falls between February 1 and the end of the school year, the payment shall be re-adjusted to February 1. This will be in effect for the remainder of the teacher’s employment, unless there are further adjustments to his/her increment date.
D.
Compensated Leaves:
1.	Personal Illness:
Bonafide physical incapacity to report for and discharge duties.
2.	Family Illness:
Bonafide pressing need due to illness of a teacher’s spouse, children, parents, grandparents or dependents to a total of five (5) days annually.
3.	Bereavement:
a. Leave up to a maximum of six (6) days when required will be granted in the case of the death of a teacher’s father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, spouse, children, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, dependents, or members of immediate household.
38
h
I	b. One (1) day leave may be granted for funerals of persons other than those
t	persons listed in Article XIV, Section D. 3.a. above.
4.	Personal Leave:
for	a. Personal Day - One (1) day will be granted without specificity to all full time
employees in a regularly assigned position. Application must be made at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the day of leave except in cases of emergency.
b. Not more than forty (40) teachers will be excused under this section on any given day district-wide and not more than ten percent (10%) of the faculty of ‘	any given secondary building or special department and not more than
fifteen percent (15%) of any elementary building on any day.
1)	If, at 5 p.m. on the second Friday of each school year, the Human Resources Office is in receipt of more requests for a given day than a	can be honored, a lottery will be held to prioritize the request for
each "high demand" day. The first 40 ’eligible’ requests shall be honored and all other requests shall be placed in standby order according to the draw. The UEA President or designee shall be present to witness the lottery.
j	2) Requests for other leave days or additional requests for "high
demand" days shall be honored or placed in standby order according to date of receipt in the Human Resources Office.
5.	Business Leave:
a.	A maximum of two (2) days per year will be allowed for business leave to all full time employees in a regular assigned position.
b.	In all cases of business leave, the request for approval must be for sound, pressing and unavoidable reason and may be subject to verification at the request of the School Administration, if deemed warranted by the teacher’s previous attendance record. A maximum of two (2) days per year will be allowed. These may be used for necessary personal business which cannot be conducted on other than a school day, such as attendance at a meeting set for the closing on the purchase of a home. These days may be used in consecutive order, for pressing and true emergency which compels the teacher’s absence for reason beyond his control.
c.	Business Leave, in all cases except unforeseen emergency, requires at least two (2) days advance notice.
d.	To avoid unanticipated loss of wages, it is advised that teachers consult with their immediate supervisor and their Educational Association Representative regarding the leave prior to its use.
6.	Requests for exceptions to the above policies shall be referred to the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources whose determination shall be final and not
39
subject to the grievance procedure.
7.	Jury Duty
a.	Personnel selected for jury duty are expected to serve unless disqualified, and will not be penalized in loss of pay, sick days, or other benefits for absences in such service provided a statement from the court, certifying the days of service, is filed with the Board.
b.	The individual will remit to the Board of Education the amount of salary compensation received for such duty from the court.
8.	Worker’s Compensation:
Worker’s Compensation shall be provided by law. This law requires that a person must use his/her own personal sick leave for the first 14 days and must contribute additional portions of sick leave to reach full compensation. The Board will pay to the teacher the difference between the amount paid to him/her by the Worker’s Compensation Insurance and his/her regular salary, and will charge the employee’s sick leave accumulation proportionately for a period equivalent (to the nearest half day) to the supplementary payment.
9.	Teacher on Special Assignment:
a.	Leave for the period up to a full school year shall be granted to one (1) teacher for the certified purpose of providing full time representation for the U.E.A. This leave will be renewed each year for one (1) year periods, providing that certified request is made each year for the succeeding year prior to the expiration of the then current school year. The U.E.A. will purchase one hundred percent 100% of the BA Step 1 salary for the applicable school year.
b.	Tenure will be broken if the affected teacher fails to report for duty at the expiration of the approved leave and, also, if the teacher granted the leave, resigns or is severed from the representation position and does not apply for reinstatement on or before the effective date of such resignation or severance.
c.	At the expiration of the ’’special assignment” leave the employee shall be restored to a similar teaching position in the district. Every effort will be made to enable a return to a comparable position held prior to leaving, excluding extra duty assignment, e.g., department head, coaching, etc.
10.	Association Leave Days:
The Association will be provided up to seventy-five (75) days during the school year for use as determined by the Association President, to perform Association business. The Association will purchase these days at the current substitute teacher rate.
During bargaining, the Association may purchase up to an additional twenty-five (25) days.
40
—
and es
o
's f
he
or
E. Attendance Incentive Program:
1.	The following Attendance Incentive Program will be in effect and reviewed at the conclusion of this Agreement to evaluate improvement in attendance.
2.	The number of accumulative sick leave days will be established at the end of the school year for the ensuing school year. Individuals will receive written notice of their accumulation at the beginning of each year.
a.	Forty days:
A teacher who has accumulated forty (40) or more sick leave days will be entided to exchange two (2) business leave days for two (2) personal leave days resulting in three (3) personal leave days.
b.	Sixty-five days:
1)	A teacher who has accumulated sixty-five (65) or more sick leave days will be entided to exchange two (2) business leave days for two (2) personal leave days and in addition he/she will be allowed to convert one (1) additional sick leave day to a personal leave day resulting in four (4) personal leave days.
2)	This employee may also obtain one (1) additional personal leave day by using one more sick leave day and reimbursing the District for one day at the rate of the first year substitute teacher.
c.	One hundred days:
A teacher who has accumulated one hundred (100) or more sick leave days will be entided to convert one additional sick leave days to a personal leave day in excess of those specified in Article XIV, paragraph E. 2. (b.l) without a financial charge resulting in the availability of five (5) personal leave days per year of sick leave accumulation.
d.	One hundred fifty days:
A teacher who has accumulated one hundred fifty (150) or more sick leave days will be entided to convert one additional sick leave day to a personal leave day in excess of those specified in Article XIV, paragraph E. 2. (c.) without financial charge resulting in the availability of (6) personal leave days per year of sick leave accumulation.
ar
ss.
25)
A.
ARTICLE XV
SABBATICAL LEAVE
Any professional employee of the Utica Community Schools who meets the qualifications,
41
shall be eligible to apply for Sabbatical Leave.
B.	Sabbatical Leave is given to professional personnel to permit them to improve their ability to render educational service. Such improvement is usually achieved by formal study, research and/or writing, and travel. Applications for Sabbatical Leave for other types of experiences will be considered on their merits and may be approved by the Board of Education upon recommendation of the Superintendent of Schools.
C.	The granting of such leave is subject to the approval of the Board of Education upon recommendation of the Evaluation Committee if in their considered judgment the professional competence of the staff member and the general welfare of the public schools will be benefited.
D.	Eligibility and Qualifications:
1.	The Evaluation Committee can recommend up to one percent (1%) of the members of the bargaining unit as applicants for Sabbatical Leaves per year for the duration of this contract.
2.	The applicant must hold a valid life, continuing or permanent certificate issued by the State of Michigan.
3.	The applicant must have seven (7) consecutive years of satisfactory service as a full time employee of the Utica Community Schools. Absence from service in the district for a period of not more than one (1) year under a leave of absence without pay granted by the Board of Education for professional improvement or restoration of health, shall not be deemed a break in the continuity of service required and shall be included as a year of service in computing the seven (7) consecutive years.
4.	Subsequent Sabbatical Leave may be authorized after eligibility has been reestablished by service of an additional seven (7) consecutive years.
5.	A Sabbatical Leave may be granted for a period of not less than one (1) full semester nor more than two (2) full consecutive semesters.
6.	A written agreement shall be filed with the Secretary of the Board of Education stipulating that the applicant will remain in the service of the Utica Community Schools for a period of three (3) years after the expiration of said leave.
E.	Procedures:
1.	Formal application must be presented to the Superintendent of Schools no later than March 15th for the following school year.
2.	Notice of acceptance or rejection will be made to the applicant within forty-five (45) days following the due date for filing application.
3.	A Sabbatical Leave, once granted, may not be terminated before the date of expiration except as provided and agreed upon by the Superintendent and the individual teacher.
42
to
1
s
>ers
i of
11
it
on all
!ter
lan
*5)
4.	Recognizing that the Board of Education will make final approval, it is the intent of this Agreement that the Board should accept the recommendation of the committee. If the Sabbatical Leave is not granted by the Board, the applicant will receive formal notification.
F.	Status While on Sabbatical Leave:
1.	The compensation for the staff member on Sabbatical Leave shall be one-half (1 /2)
of the salary that would be received were he/she on active staff status, not to include any pay for extra curriculum activities.
The employee's insurance benefits in force at the commencement of the leave shall be continued for the duration of their sabbatical leave.
2.	Payment of salary shall be made in accordance with provisions for payment of salary to other members of the professional staff. The Employee shall be responsible for keeping the Business Office notified as to his/her address.
3.	A semester of Sabbatical Leave shall entide an Employee to a full increment at the beginning of the school year following his/her return to service in the Utica Community Schools.
4.	Regular sick leave shall apply to an employee on Sabbatical Leave.
5.	Notification of accident or illness must be made by the Employee to the Superintendent within ten (10) days. Upon request, evidence of such accident or illness must be provided for the Superintendent's consideration.
6.	A Sabbatical Leave granted to a regular Employee of the professional staff shall operate as a leave of absence without pay from all other school activities.
7.	Any Employee granted a leave of absence pursuant to these rules and regulations may be required to perform such services and to engage in such activities during the leave as the Superintendent of Schools, with the approval of the Board of Education and the Employee, may agree upon in writing.
G.	Reports Required:
1.	The employee shall immediately request approval from the Superintendent for substantial changes in the planned program of the leave as outlined in the approved application.
2.	An interim report shall be filed at the midpoint of the period of which the leave is taken. This report shall contain sufficient information to enable the Superintendent to determine that the leave is being utilized in the approved manner.
3.	A final report shall be filed with the Superintendent in accordance with the provisions as stated.
4.	The Superintendent may requite, and the Employee shall promptly furnish such
43

additional reports as the Superintendent deems necessary or reasonable to determine that the Employee is fulfilling the Agreement and all the requirements of the leave. In the event that the Superintendent shall find that the Employee is not fulfilling the Agreement or is dilatory in any respect, the entire sum paid to the Employee by the Board shall become immediately due and all future payments shall cease.
H.	Requirements and Status Upon Returning from Sabbatical Leave:
1.	At the expiration of a Sabbatical Leave, the Employee shall be restored to a similar teaching position in the district. Every effort will be made to reinstate the person to the comparable position held prior to the leave; provided, however, that the Employee remains eligible for reinstatement and under provisions of this contract.
2.	If an Employee does not remain in the Utica Community Schools for three (3) years immediately following the Sabbatical Leave, he/she shall within two (2) years repay the same relation to the amount granted as the unexpired period of service bears to three (3) years. This rule does not apply in cases wherein the person becomes incapacitated to work, in cases where the Board grants an approved leave of absence or in cases wherein the rule is waived by the Board of Education.
3.	Each Employee returning from Sabbatical Leave shall file a final written report with the Superintendent not later than a month after the day on which the Employee again takes up active service. The report shall include the names of the institutions attended, courses pursued, credits received, experience gained, or the itinerary of travel, together with the applicant’s appraisal of the professional value of the activities while on leave and the manner in which the knowledge and experience gained may be applied to the benefit of the school system. An Employee shall not be considered as having completed the requirements of the Sabbatical Leave until the final report has been approved by the Superintendent. The Superintendent may require proof that the program as presented by the applicant has been followed.
I.	Evaluation Committee:
1.	Upon receipt of all applications for Sabbatical Leave, the Superintendent of Schools shall refer them to an appointed evaluation committee for preliminary study and consideration.
2.	It shall be the duty of the committee to make recommendations to the Board of Education concerning all applications for Sabbatical Leave.
3.	In recommending approval of an application, the committee shall consider the following factors:
a.	Date of filing application.
b.	Purpose of the Leave.
c.	Seniority of service in the school system.
d.	Professional growth to the staff member.
e.	Potential benefit to the school system, f. Other factors deemed important.
44
..;.....r........... .1|||
line e. the he
4. The members of the evaluation committee shall be:
a.	Two (2) members of the Association.
b.	Two (2) members of the Administration.
c.	In the event of tie vote, the Superintendent of Schools will cast the deciding vote.	.
to	ARTICLE XVI
SICK LEAVE BANK
t.
A.	The Board of Education will cooperate in the operation of a sick leave bank. All certified a*8	professional personnel of the bargaining unit with one (1) year service in the District may
iy	participate in the bank on a voluntary basis.
B.	The primary purpose of the sick bank is to protect an employee's earning power during lce	periods of protracted and unavoidable absence due to his/her incapacity to perform the
responsibilities of their assignment.
C.	Individual teachers may join the sick bank after s/he donate one (1) day of his/her accumulated sick leave to the bank; have completed one year of service; and submitted his/her s	authorization to join within 10 working days at the beginning of either semester of a school
year to the Human Resources Office.
D.	Members will each donate one day of sick leave to the bank on the first day of each semester. t	However, if the sick leave bank is above 3,200 days at the beginning of any semester, donation
by each member will not be made. This is considered the teacher's membership in the bank. If iy	a member is in the 30 working-day sick leave bank waiting period pursuant to Article XVI,
Paragraph F, or is in the sick bank when the day is taken, that member is covered fot that illness or disability. If a member does not have a day to contribute, s/he will be out of the bank.
k	E. A person withdrawing from membership in the bank will not be able to withdraw the
contributed days.
F.	The first thirty (30) days of illness or disability will not be covered by the bank, but must be covered by the person's own accumulated sick leave or absence without pay.
1.	In the first 30 days of disability, members use their own accumulated sick leave days. However, if a member is using sick leave days and an Act of God day occurs, the day of sick leave is restored to the member and the Act of God day does not count as part of the 30-day waiting period.
2.	Member who do not have 30 accumulated days of sick leave to use will be placed on unpaid medical leave until the 30-day waiting period is completed. If during that unpaid medical leave status an Act of God day occurs, it will be an unpaid day for the member and will count as part of the 30-day waiting period.
45

3.	Sick leave days that are clearly identified by the doctor as related to the same disability and are within a one-year window will count toward the fulfillment of the 30-day waiting period.
G.	A maximum of one hundred fifty-six (156) consecutive days for each incident shall be allowed. A person who is on lay off, ot on a non-compensated leave of absence shall not be able to withdraw days from the sick bank except as specified in paragraph "H" of this Article.
H.	A member of the sick leave bank on a non-compensable leave of absence due to reason of
disability is eligible to apply for coverage by the bank and may use these non-compensable days to satisfy the waiting period.
I.	Persons withdrawing sick leave days from the bank will not have to replace these days except as a regular contributing member of the bank.
J.	A medical report will accompany sick leave withdrawal forms, which will be made in duplicate, the original to be filed at the Human Resources Office in the personnel file of the applicant. A duplicate will be kept on file by the Sick Bank Committee at the Association Office. Additional medical reports must be submitted every two (2) weeks while in the bank to the Association and to the Board.
K.	The Sick Leave Bank will be controlled by the Association Sick Leave Bank Committee, but final authority in regard to the interpretation of this policy shall rest with the Board of Education.
L.	The Association will collect authorization cards that must be forwarded to the Human Resources Office by the time specified in "C". The original will be kept on file in the Human Resources Office, and the U.E.A. will keep one photo copy on file. A third copy will remain with the member.
M.	Teachers who are members of the sick bank when laid-off or placed on non-compensated leave of absence shall be allowed to continue their membership upon return to work or recall.
N.	A teacher who qualifies to withdraw days from the sick bank shall establish his/her rate of compensation effective the date the disability commences.
O.	Employment status, such as full-time, part-time, etc.,is determined by the previous school year if the disability begins prior to the start of a school year.
P.	An employee withdrawing days from the sick bank shall be entided to increments but shall not be eligible to receive sick leave day accumulation or extra pay for co-curticular activities. If an employee meets all the requirements for salary track change as specified in Appendix II of this Agreement while withdrawing days from the sick bank, they shall be placed on the appropriate salary track immediately upon return to work.
Q.	Sick leave bank cannot be used during layoff or other non-compensated leaves.
R.	Elective surgery does not qualify for sick leave bank.
S.	If a teacher exhausts the one hundred fifty-six (156) consecutive day draw from the sick bank,
46
tie
ved.
that teacher is not eligible for the sick bank until he/she has worked one hundred eighty-six (186) school days.
T.	When a teacher is drawing days from the sick bank and becomes additionally disabled and/or incapacitated by another sickness and/or illness, he/she shall not be required to wait an additional waiting period but shall be limited to the balance of the days remaining of the one hundred fifty-six (156) consecutive days from the first disability or illness.
U.	A maximum of one hundred fifty-six (156) consecutive days for each incident shall be allowed.
pt
:ate, t.
t
lan ain
ill.
ear
not an his Late
ik,
ARTICLE XVII
REDUCTION AND RECALL
A.	Before the Board of Education makes any necessary reduction in personnel, it will first inform and discuss with the Association the effects of such reduction. This will include, but not be limited to, such problems as the criteria used for the determination of who will be laid off and the re-employment rights of such persons.
B.	In cases requiring a necessary reduction of the teacher, such reduction will be by seniority as defined in Article XIII and herein after provided. Laid off staff will be given a copy of the complete recall procedure at the time they receive their lay off notice.
1.	The Board shall determine, following consultation with the Association, the number of positions to be eliminated and shall so notify the Association.
2.	Beginning with the last name on the seniority list, and in ascending order thereafter, the Board shall identify the least senior bargaining unit positions to be eliminated. The affected bargaining unit members shall be laid off. In situations where a teacher scheduled for lay off cannot be replaced by a member of the bargaining unit with similar certification, the teacher shall be retained.
3.	The Board shall effect administrative transfers so as to insure the retention of the most senior bargaining unit members.
C.	No teacher shall be laid off pursuant to necessary reduction in personnel for any school year or portion thereof, unless they have been notified of said lay off at least thirty (30) days before the effective date of said action.
D.	After the date of lay off, teachers will be recalled to positions consistent with their certification, major/minor(s) and North Central Association criteria according to Article X beginning with the most senior employee.
E.	No new employees shall be hired for bargaining unit positions while a laid off employee can meet the requirements of the position pursuant to Article X.
47
F.	Recall will be by written certified letter, return receipt requested to the employee’s last
known address on file with the Human Resources Office.
G.	Persons notified of recall shall accept or reject the recall notice within five (5) days of receipt of the recall notice.
H.	The laid off employee has full responsibility of notifying the Human Resources Office of any change in name, address and telephone number.
I.	As used in Article XVII, the term ’’qualified” means that the teacher must be certified for the assignment, must meet any applicable North Central requirements for the assignment, art, music and physical education assignments in grades K-6, the teacher must have a major or minor in subject area.
ARTICLE XVIII
MEDICAL EXAMINATION
A.	The School Board requires evidence of any health tests mandated by State regulations covering
public school employees.
B.	In September of every school year the Board will provide clinical procedures for flu shots for any staff member who desires them.
C.	Should the Board or its agents have reason to suspect that a teacher is unable to perform his/her professional duties due to physical and/or emotional disability, they may demand that said teacher submit to a physical or psychiatric evaluation. Upon such demand the Association will be notified with permission of the individual. The Board may designate an examiner, who must be a licensed physician, osteopath or psychiatrist and the Board will assume the cost of the examination. An additional examiner may be selected by the teacher at his/her expense.
ARTICLE XIX
DISMISSAL PROCEDURES FOR CO-CURRICULAR COMPENSATED ASSIGNMENTS
A.	The Board, although not relinquishing its management rights to dismiss, agrees to follow the procedures outlined herein with reference to the dismissal of any employee covered by Article I, A from a co-curricular compensated assignment.
B.	There shall be two (2) full years of probation for all compensated co-curricular assignments.
C.	The dismissal procedure outlined in this article would be followed only for those experienced teachers who have successfully completed their two (2) years probation.
D.	All teachers receiving new co-curricular assignments would be subject to the probationary
48
pt
ny
he
period.
E.	It should be noted, that the probationary status pertains only to the co-curricular assignments and not to a teacher's status as a classroom teacher.
F.	It is the responsibility of the appropriate administrator to make aware and counsel any -employee who is not fulfilling his/her assignment properly. A written record of the date of this conference will be signed by both parties.
G.	Should the problem persist, a second conference will be held, and a letter of dismissal will be presented to the employee with each specific charge outlined. The Superintendent, or designated representative will be present at this conference.
H.	Egregious Behavior
It is understood there are infractions of such a serious and flagrant nature (e.g. theft, fighting, abuse of children, etc.) that they may warrant immediate terminatiqn from an assignment.
I.	This article shall not apply to system-wide or building department chairpersons.
J.	Only failure to follow the above procedure is subject to the grievance procedure.
3t
tat
at
ARTICLE XX
NO STRIKE
A. The Association fully recognizes that the statutes of the State of Michigan confer upon public employees and their organizations not only certain rights and privileges, but also certain duties and responsibilities, the latter including particularly the duty to maintain and continue the functions of government, in this case the operation of the public schools without interruption or interference due to strikes.
Accordingly, the Association agrees on behalf of itself and all those whom it represents, that the no-strike provisions of the Public Employment Relations Act (Act 336 of 1947, as amended) will be faithfully observed.
ARTICLE XXI
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for an alternate forum for the handling of employee concerns and complaints relative to physical facilities.
The Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources, or designee, shall meet with the President of the Utica Education Association, or designee, in an attempt to solve physical
49
facility problems by influencing the priorities of the Maintenance Department.
ARTICLE XXII
RETIREMENT
A.	Teachers who notify the Human Resources Department not later than April 1 of their intent to retire in June of the same year or not later than November 1 of their intent to retire at the end of the first semester shall be entitled to a stipend of $500 payable on the final pay in June.
B.	Teachers who retire or resign in June and opt to forego their District health insurance for the months of July and August shall receive a stipend equal to one month’s health insurance premium at single subscriber rate, provided they can show proof of insurance from another provider, e.g. MPSERS.
C.	Teachers retiring from the Utica Community Schools under the Michigan Public School Employee Retirement System will be compensated for those accumulated sick leave days in excess of fifty (50) at the rate of $40 per sick leave day.
ARTICLE XXIII
SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROCESS, NORTH CENTRAL ACCREDITATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
A.	The purpose of this Article is to set forth the mutual understanding between the Utica Education Association and the Utica Community Schools regarding the School Improvement Process (SI), North Central Accreditation (NCA) and Professional Development (PD).
B.	The parties to this Agreement mutually agree that each has a significant role in the improvement of the ability to render educational services. The Board of Education agrees to provide professional development opportunities to teachers as follows:
1.	Teachers will have two full days and four half days of professional development scheduled within the District calendar (for a total of four days).
2.	Teachers are responsible for one additional day of professional development (for a total of five) to be done “on your own” and outside the regular school day. Evidence of completion of this professional development requirement must be provided to the building principal or designee. Any “on your own” professional development not offered by Utica Community Schools or Macomb Intermediate School District requires prior approval.
50
1 i
itent : the
the
x
C.	The patties to this Agreement mutually agree that teachers occupy a key role in the development of School Improvement plans, NCA, and Professional Development. Teachers have an equal role in the collaborative process that is essential to the School Improvement Process and North Central Accreditation.
1.	The SI team shall set school improvement goals annually. Both parties to this Agreement recognize that accreditation processes are ongoing and part of the school improvement process.
2.	The team shall plan and implement the necessary professional development to meet the goals.
3.	Teacher(s) will be granted a meeting with the School Improvement team of their building and/or department for the purpose of discussion of the plan/program.
4.	Pilot projects and new programs that are a result of the School Improvement process shall be presented in writing to the appropriate Steering Committee.
5.	Although it is desirable to limit the time line of “experimental/pilot plan/programs”, it is understood that the duration of School Improvement Plan/Programs may be for periods greater than one school year.
6.	School Improvement teams shall develop guidelines to be used in their School Improvement Process.
D.	Teachers will not be evaluated pursuant to the School Improvement process.
;nt
to
51
APPENDIX I - A
2002 - 2003 School Year
September
—	3	4	5	6
	10	11	12	13
16	17	18	19	20
I 23	24	25	26	27 |
30
August 26	Teachers Report
August 27	Students Report, Elem 1/2 Day
August 30	No School
September 2	No School
October 9	All Student 1/2 Day - Teacher PD
November 1	End of First Marking Period
November 5	No Students - Teacher PD
November 4-14	Conference Window - 2 evenings
November 12	All Student 1/2 Day - PM Conf.
Nov. 27, 28, 29	Thanksgiving Break
December 12	All Student 1/2 Day - Teacher PD
December 20	Winter Break Begins End of Day
January 2	Classes Resume
January 16	All Student 1/2 Day
January 17	All Student 1/2 Day-End of Semester
January 20	No Students - Teacher PD
February 10-14	Elementary Conference Window
February 14	Elem Student & Teacher 1/2 Day
February 17 - 21	Mid Winter Break
March 5	All Student 1/2 Day - Teacher PD
March 28	End of Third Marking Period
April 9	All Student 1/2 Day - Teacher PD
April 18-25	Spring Break
May 26	No School
June 11	Secondary Student 1/2 Day
June 12	All Student 1/2 Day - Last Day
June 13	Last Teacher Work Day
| [Teacher Work Day Secondary Half Day Elementary Half Day All Student Half Day No School
AMKtNUIA I - B
181 Student Days
186 Teacher Days

27 | 28 | 29 | 30
August
■No School
APPENDIX I - B
2003 - 2004 School Year

October
August 25
August 26
Teachers Report
Students Report - Elem 1/2 Day
	2	3	4	5 |M ■■■		L1	2	3 MM Aug 29,Sept 1 No School
	9	10	11	12MM ^B6	7		9	10 |M October 8	All Student 1/2 Day - Teacher PD
SSIHJlIWMnS Ijjj15	16	17	18	19 Bai | w 13	14	15	16	17 MM October 31	End of First Marking Period
	23	24	25	2cjjjj MB 20	21	22	23	24 MM November 4 No School - Teacher PD
Ml 29	30 |			Mi Mi 27	28	29	30	31 MM November 4-14 Conference Window - 2 Evenings
November
18
25
5
12
19
6
13
20
3
10
17
24
7
14
21
December
rr	2	3	4	5 Mi
8	9	10		12 wM
15	16	17	18	19|h|
| 22	23		A*** '■	
				
January
8
9
1$
22
29
23
30
26
28
27
5 12
19]
6
13
20
7 14 21
I February I
March
April

2
9
3
4
5 6
23 24 25 26 27

rr	2		4	5|
8	9	10	11	12 I
15	16	17	18	19|
22	23	24	25	26|
| 29	30	31		

November 11 Nov. 26,27,28 December 11
December 23
January 5
January 15
January 16
January 19 February 9-12 February 13 Feb 16-20 March 3
March 26 April 9-16 May 5
All Student 1/2 Day - PM Conf.
Thanksgiving Break
All Student 1/2 Day - Teacher PD Winter Break at End of Day Classes Resume
All Student 1/2 Day
All Student 1/2 Day End of Semester
No Students - Teacher PD Elementary Conference Window Elem Student & Teacher 1/2 Day Mid-Winter Break
All Student 1/2 Day-PD
End of Third Marking Period
Spring Break
All Student 1/2 Day - Teacher PD
May
3	4		6	7
10	11	12	13	14
I 17	18	19	20	21 I
I 24	25	26	27	28 I
2
June
8
11
pgi	[20]	[21	221	I 23 MM	May 31	No School
1 26 |	27 |	28	29 |	30 MM	June 9	Secondary Student 1/2 Day
				. J'l	June 10	All Student 1/2 Day - Last Day
					June 11	Teacher Last Day
Teacher Work Day Secondary Half Day Elementary Half Day All Student Half Day No School
181 Student Days
186 Teacher Days
APPENDIX II
SALAR Y PLACEMENT
A.	BA+15 Schedule: Bachelors plus fifteen (15) semester hours (these courses shall be on the graduate level and must have been completed after provisional certification). The first ten (10) semester hours may be undergraduate credit if used for permanent certification; the next five (5) semester hours must be graduate level. This is applicable only to teachers employed and working prior to July 1,1972.
B.	MA+15 Schedule: These courses must be on the graduate level and completed after the issuance of the MA. MSW - Social Work eligible for placement on MA+15 semester hour salary track; this is applicable only to teachers employed and working prior to July 1, 2002.
C.	Members with MA degree which includes a total of 60 total graduate hours shall be eligible for placement on MA+15. If the MA degree is between 46 and 60 hours, the member may be placed on MA+15 by earning the number needed to teach a total of 60 hours.
D.	Specialist or Second Academic MA. Schedule: These courses must have resulted in the attainment of the appropriate degree or must be:
1.	In the course of a program toward a Doctor's Degree, for which a period of five (5) years will be allowed at the expiration of which time the involved teacher shall be appropriately moved to the MA plus fifteen (15) or Doctorate Schedule, or
2.	Second MA must be for courses approved in advance by the Superintendent.
E.	MA, EdS., Ph. D and Ed. D degrees must be obtained from a university accredited by the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education. Beginning July 1,1997, degrees may
be obtained from any accredited Michigan university.
NOTE:
2nd FRIDAY NOVEMBER DEADLINE -
Only official transcripts (non-student copies) will be accepted by the above captioned date as evidence to qualify for advance degree or extra hour salary schedule allowances.
2.	Exceptions to the above approved only by the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources whose decision shall be final and not subject to the grievance procedure.
F.	Teachers acquiring a second MA, or an EdS degree will be paid a flat dollar amount of $700 over and above MA+15 salary track.
G.	Teachers shall have until the 4th Friday of 1990-91 school year to file proof of acceptance on a Ph.D/Ed.D degree program. Employees who meet this deadline shall be eligible upon completion within five (5) years of the Ph.D./Ed.D degree to be compensated at the rate specified in the Ph.D salary track. Teachers who acquire a Ph.D/Ed.D degree and do not meet the deadline specified herein, shall be compensated at a flat dollar amount of $700 over and above the specific EdS salary track on which they are paid.
H.	Additional Assignment:
Secondary teachers who are requested to accept permanent or continuing additional classroom preparation in lieu of a preparation period are to receive a prorated amount of their salary based on the number of class periods per day in the building they are teaching for the 10)	duration of the assignment,
e
I.	Salary:
1.	Teachers ate paid on the basis of one hundred eighty-six (186) work days.
2.	Deductions for days lost or for a partial year's service shall be on the basis of
1/186th of the annual salary pet day.
J.	Experience:
be
The Superintendent may place a newly employed teacher or a teacher returning to the system after a break in service of one (1) year or more, excluding approved leaves of absence, at any step on the salary schedule. Signing of the individual contract by the teacher shall constitute agreement with the placement on the salary schedule and said teacher shall have no right to an appeal or review of such placement or salary.
’)
lay
n
1 a
55
APPENDIX m-A
UTICA COMMUNITY SCHOOLS SALARY SCHEDULE 02-03
Step	BA	BA+15	MA	MA+15	NEW EDS	EDS	NEW PHD	PHD
1	$34,644	$0	$35,980	$37,419	$38,119	$0	$38,819	$0
2	$36,339	$0	$41,320	$43,810	$44,510	$0	$45,210	$0
3	$41,352	$0	$46,343	$48,837	$49,537	$0	$50,237	$0
4	$44,242	$0	$49,695	$52,240	$52,940	$0	$53,640	$0
5	$46,925	$0	$52,803	$55,735	$56,435	$0	$57,135	$0
6	$49,128	$0	$55,737	$58,677	$59,377	$0	$60,077	$0
7	$51,334	$0	$58,677	$61,980	$62,680	$0	$63,380	$0
8	$53,895	$0	$61,980	$65,285	$65,985	$0	$66,685	$0
9	$56,858	$0	$65,863	$69,205	$69,905	$0	$70,605	$0
10	$59,565	$0	$69,205	$72,906	$73,606	$0	$74,306	$80,310
11	$62,162	$65,503	$73,181	$76,608	$77,308	$80,310	$78,008	$84,389
LONGEVITY
15	$62,862	$66,203	$73,881	$77,308	$78,008	$81,010	$78,708	$85,089
20	$63,462	$66,803	$74,481	$77,908	$78,608	$81,610	$79,308	$85,689
25	$64,162	$67,503	$75,181	$78,608	$79,308	$82,310	$80,008	$86,389
28	$64,762	$68,103	$75,781	$79,208	$79,908	$82,910	$80,608	$86,989
56
APPENDIX m-B
UTICA COMMUNITY SCHOOLS SALARY SCHEDULE 03-04
	Step				NEW		NEW	
HD	BA	BA+15	MA	MA+15	EDS	EDS	PHD	PHD
$0	1	$35,614	$0	$36,987	$38,467	$39,167	$0	$39,867	$0
$0	2	$37,356	$0	$42,477	$45,037	$45,737	$0	$46,437	$0
$0	3	$42,510	$0	$47,641	$50,205	$50,905	$0	$51,605	$0
$0	4	$45,481	$0	$51,086	$53,703	$54,403	$0	$55,103	$0
$0	5	$48,239	$0	$54,282	$57,296	$57,996	$0	$58,696	$0
$0	6	$50,504	$0	$57,298	$60,320	$61,020	$0	$61,720	$0
$0	7	$52,772	$0	$60,320	$63,716	$64,416	$0	$65,116	$0
$0	8	$55,404	$0	$63,716	$67,113	$67,813	$0	$68,513	$0
$0	9	$58,450	$0	$67,707	$71,143	$71,843	$0	$72,543	$0
►,310	10	$61,233	$0	$71,143	$74,947	$75,647	$0	$76,347	$82,559
1,389	11	$63,903	$67,337	$75,230	$78,753	$79,453	$82,559	$80,153	$86,751
	LONGEVITY							
,089	15	$64,603	$68,037	$75,930	$79,453	$80,153	$83,259	$80,853	$87,451
,689	20	$65,203	$68,637	$76,530	$80,053	$80,753	$83,859	$81,453	$88,051
,389	25	$65,903	$69,337	$77,230	$80,753	$81,453	$84,559	$82,153	$88,751
,989	28	$66,503	$69,937	$77,830	$81,353	$82,053	$85,159	$82,753	$89,351
57
APPENDIX IV
EXTRA PAY FOR CO-CURRICULAR ASSIGNMENTS
A.	The Board of Education shall grant extra pay to those who are selected by the ‘ Superintendent to perform the following co-curricular (beyond the school day) assignments.
B.	Remuneration (annual) for some co-curricular assignments bears a percentage relationship to the appropriate level on the printed salary schedule contained in Appendix IV.
C.	Positions which were compensated with fixed dollar amounts in the 1994-97 contract and the 1999-02 and which have been converted to percentage basis for this Agreement shall be placed on the 5th step of the Co-Cutricular salary schedule which appears in this article.
D. Athletics:		
Senior High School Sport	Head	Assistant
	Coach	Coach
Baseball	10.0%	7.0%
Basketball	12.0%	9.0%
Cross-Country	7.0%	None
Football	12.0%	9.0%
Golf	7.0%	None
Swimming	10.0%	6.0%
Diving *	7.0%	None
Tennis	7.0%	5.0%
Track	10.0%	6.0%
Wrestling	10.0%	7.0%
Softball	10.0%	7.0%
Volleyball	10.0%	7.0%
Cheerleading	7.0%/season (2)	5.0%/season (2)
Soccer	10.0%	7.0%
* Coach all four (4) HS as	1 team - redline current coach at 10%	
Junior High School (7th & 8th grade)		
Basketball*	7.5%	None
Football*	7.5%	6.0%
Track*	6.0%	5.0%
Volleyball*	6.0%	None
Cheerleading * separate teams	7.0%/season (2)	None
Sports at 9th Grade		
Baseball		7.0%
Basketball		8.5%
Football		8.5%
Assistant Football		6.0%.
58
		Track	7.0%
		Softball	7.0%
		Volleyball	7.0%
	■	Soccer	7.0%
		Cheerleading	7.0%/season (2)
	E.	High School:	
its.		All School Play Director	3.0%
		All School Play Technical Director	2.0%
		Forensic	2.75%
<IV.		Debate	4.0%
		Debate/Forensic Assistant	1.5%
the		Yearbook	2.75%
		Newspaper	2.75%
		Quiz Bowl	2.75%
		Science Olympiad	1.75%
		Band Director	10.0%
		Assistant Band Director	4.0%
		Summer Band Director	3.0%
		Spring Musical Director	3.0%
		Spring Musical Technical Director	2.0%
		Choral Director*	2.25%
		National Honor Society	1.5%
		VICA	1.5%
		DECA	1.5%
		NCA Chair/SIT Chair	2.5%
	F.	Jr. High:	
		Band Director **	4.5%
		Science Olympiad	1.5%
		Yearbook/Newspaper	1.5%
		Destination Imagination	1.5%
		Social Studies Olympiad	1.5%
		NCA/SIT Chair	2.5%
	G.	Elementary	
		Safety Patrol	1.25%
		Service Squad	1.25%
		Student Council	1.25%
		Science Olympiad	1.5%
		Destination Imagination	1.5%
		Social Studies Olympiad	1.5%
		Academically Talented and Gifted	1.5% (per semester)
		NCA/SIT Chair	2.5%
H. Summer School (K-12 Credit Program Only)
For 2002, $21.00
Effective 2003, Summer School Instructors will be covered in the Miscellaneous Classified Employees Policy.
59
Athletic Director
High School Junior High School
Additional 1% for ninth grade
4.5% per season
3.0% per season
Department Chairperson
System
Building
Special Education
2.5%
1.75%
1.75%
K. Special Education: (Applicable only to teachers employed and working prior to July 1,1972.)
Classroom Teacher - Type A & B School Psychologist
Deaf & Hard of Hearing
Homebound
Speech
Social Worker
$425.00
425.00
425.00
425.00
425.00
425.00
L.	Additional weeks of work performing regular school duties will be compensated at the rate of 3.0% of their base salary per week beyond the regular school year.
M.	Civic functions per Article III, A. 6, page 9	$21.00/hour
The decision to provide any or all of the illustrated activities in part or in full, is vested in the Board of Education.
*
**
This would include all co-curricular choral activities during the school year. 3 events per year.
APPENDIX IV CO-CURRICULAR SALARY SCHEDULE
	Old Steps	NEW		2003-04
	1-4	1	39,080	40,175
	5	2	41,451	42,612
	6	3	43,397	44,612
	7	4	45,345	46,615
	8	5	47,608	48,941
	9	6	50,224	51,630
	10	7	52,617	54,090
	11	8	54,910	56,447
	12	9	57,383	58,990
te of	New	10	58,383	59,990
The first 3 steps have been consolidated into step one for the year 2002-03. Consequently, all steps are renumbered accordingly. Once established on the new schedule, a person will continue to move up yearly.
61
APPENDIX V
PROFESSIONAL COMPENSATION
A.	Salary Checks -- Contractual salaries will be paid bi-weekly according to the following option to the teacher.
1.	Over twenty-one (21) pay periods — corresponding to the school year.
2.	Over twenty-six (26) pay periods -- corresponding to the calendar year.
Teachers are cautioned to select their option carefully as the complexities of the payroll computer program makes any later change unfeasible.
B.	When properly authorized, payroll deductions may be made for each of the following:
1.	U.S. Savings Bonds
2.	Professional Dues, Special Assessments and PAC contributions.
3.	United Foundation
4.	Credit Union
5.	Tax Deferred Annuities - Carrier with 25 or more bargaining unit participants.
6.	Hospital Insurance
7.	Income Protection
8.	IRS Section 125
9.	TDP Program
10.	Benefits offered to other bargaining groups
C.	Subbing:
The rate for full-time teachers subbing during the school day will be $21.00 per period. Payment for full time teachers subbing during the school day shall be made the first full payroll period after the end of each marking period.
D.	Travel:
When it is necessary for an employee to use a private automobile to attend or make possible a function of the school's activities or to further the objectives of the school, a mileage rate per mile shall be awarded for the use of such vehicle or vehicles, pending approval of the School Board. This applies only to activities outside the school district. Employees who have to go from school to school to perform their duties shall be compensated at the same rate. Mileage Rate: - I.R.S. allowance.
E.	Increments:
Increments will be granted on a full year experience.
F.	Coaches shall be paid by separate check for their coaching activities at the appropriate pay period. For the purpose of this provision, there will be pay days established to accommodate the three major sport seasons of Fall, Winter and Spring. Vouchers for pay for
62
the coaching activity must be submitted priot to the scheduled pay date for the coach to receive a separate check.
G.	The Board of Education will pay school employees’ retirement on all payroll amounts contained in the agreement. The employees will pay all the employee's Member Investment Plan (MIP) contributions.	.
H.	Adjustments to Compensation:
A teacher who is laid off and who is paid unemployment benefits by Utica Community Schools during the summer immediately following the layoff and who is subsequendy recalled to a position during the next school year shall have his/her compensation adjusted by the gross dollar amount of the unemployment compensation benefits received for all periods and/or days during the summer recess minus the number of weeks (or portion thereof) recalled after fourth Friday.
APPENDIX VI
BENEFIT PROGRAMS
A.	Long Term Disability Insurance
Long Term Disability Insurance shall be provided each full-time teacher actively at work after one (1) year of disability and will continue for the balance of his life, or retirement under the Michigan Public School Employees Retirement Act or until age seventy (70) whichever comes first. This coverage will be for sixty percent (60%) full integrated basis of monthly salary with a ceiling of $3,000.00.
B.	Vision Care
Vision care equal in nature to Vision Service Plan (VSP) 2 to all full-time employees.
C.	Plan A
1.	MESSA or Blue Cross/Blue Shield equal in nature to MESSA Super Cate I (* with MESS A Preferred Rx, $100/$200 annual deductible).
OR
MESSA Choices or Blue Cross/Blue Shield equal in nature to MESSA Choices, (* with MESSA Preferred Rx, no deductible).
Each individual teacher will choose one of the above options during the open enrollment period, annually.
2.	Life Insurance (including accidental death and dismemberment) $40,000 group life insurance.
63
1
3.	Dental Program shall provide the following:
a.	Class I benefits 85% to a maximum of $2,000 per person per contract year.
b.	Class II benefits 50% to a maximum of $2,000 per person per contract year.
c.	Class III benefits 50% to a life-time maximum of $1,000 per person.
Class III benefits cover dependent children up to age 19 only.
D.	Plan B
1.	Employees not selecting Plan A, Family Benefits up to maximum of those equal in nature to Delta Dental Auto Plan. Class 1100% diagnostic services (excluding radiographs), preventive services and emergency palliative services; 90% radiographs, and remainder of basic services. Class II Prosthodontic services. Class III, Plan 0-3. Internal and external coordination of benefits, billing controlled by the Board of Education.
2.	Life Insurance (including accidental death and dismemberment) $50,000 group life insurance.
3.	The amount of $125 per month prorated over a twelve month period for a maximum benefit of $1,500 per year will be paid by separate check in the last pay in December and the final pay in June.
4.	To be eligible for Plan B, the teacher must show evidence of health insurance from another source.
E.	Part-time teachers may avail themselves of benefits listed in Sectioon B. and C. of this Appendix on a pro-rated basis.
F.	Continuity of Coverage
Any teacher who terminates his employment effective at the end of the school year will be covered by all contracted insurance. Coverage will remain in effect until the beginning of the new school year in the Utica Community Schools or the anniversary date of the policy, whichever is first.
G.	General Information Regarding Insurance Coverage:
Employees entering on a non-compensable leave of absence due to personal disability shall have their hospitalization, dental and optical insurance coverage extended for the balance of the month the leave commences plus one additional month.
Employees entering on a non-compensable leave of absence in June, due to personal disability shall have their hospitalization, dental and optical insurance coverage extended for the balance of June, all of July and August.
Employees who become disabled shall have their life and long term disability insurance, in effect at the time of their disability, continued to the extent of their disability. This insurance coverage will continue to the extent allowed by the insurance company beyond
J
'I0i	64
: year.
t year.
al in
raphs, 10-3. f
life
yin
the termination of an employment status with Utica Community Schools.
Employees entering on a non-compensable leave of absence due to non-disability reasons shall have their total insurance program extended for only the balance of the month the leave commences. MESSA will allow an employee to continue their hospitalization coverage in force at the individual's own expense for 12 months after commencement of a non-compensable leave of absence. The cost of this 12 month extension of coverage will be billed at current Board of Education rates.
Dental and vision insurance coverage may not be continued beyond periods provided above even at the employee's own expense.
Bargaining unit personnel shall be allowed to enroll in the appropriate health care program provided by the school district during the annual enrollment period, normally September 1st through September 30th.
Further, it is understood that personnel who wish to change from medical health care coverage provided by an outside source, to that provided by the Utica Community Schools, may do so at any time after the open enrollment period, provided they submit documentation from the outside provider that states medical coverage is no longer available to the employee.
Bargaining unit personnel who desire to change their selection of "Plan B" to "Plan A", shall be allowed to enroll in the appropriate health care program during the open enrollment period.
H.	If MESSA is the carrier for health care, the MESSA options will be available to staff at their expense. It shall be the full responsibility of the individual to make application and payment for these options. The Board of Education shall assume no liability for enrollment and/or payment regarding the MESSA options.
I.	The Board of Education shall have the right to select either MESSA or Blue
Cross/Blue Shield to provide the major health cate program. In addition, it is our agreement that equal in nature shall be defined as providing comparable coverage to MESSA Super Care I* with MESSA Preferred Rx program and $100/$200 deductible OR, for members choosing MESSA Choices, coverage comparable to MESSA Choices.*
* MESSA Super Care I Program shall be the basic program as set forth in the current Supercare I Certificate Booklet revised plan effective date: July 1,1994. MESSA Choices program shall be the program in effect July 1, 2002.
J.	The parties to this contract agree to meet and negotiate the impact of this contract of any National Health Plan.
APPENDIX VII
PART-TIME AND SHARED EMPLOYMENT
A.	Employees who are interested in part-time assignments should notify the Human Resources Office in writing prior to March 31 of each year.
65
B.	Members interested in job share will receive a copy of the Job Share Guidelines established between the Association and the District in 1998. An individual job share agreement, based on these guidelines, will be signed by the two partners.
C.	Information regarding staff wishing part-time assignments will be made available to other
interested teachers for potential shared assignments.
D.	Availability of a part-time or sharing an assignment will be determined by the
administration.
E.	Individuals working part-time or sharing an assignment will have the opportunity to return to a full-time position at the beginning of any school year if their seniority is sufficient to do so.
F.	Teachers working part-time or sharing an assignment will be responsible for a prorated portion of the professional development and staff meeting requirements of this Master Agreement.
G.	Employees employed in less than full-time assignments shall have their compensation computed as follows:
1.	Begindergarten or one section of kindergarten-fifty percent (50%) of their appropriate salary step and track.
2.	Elementary special area assignments will be prorated on a daily basis.
3.	Junior high school assignments and Senior high school assignments shall be prorated on a basis of one class period, either instruction period or duty period, equal to one- sixth of the appropriate salary step and track.
66
bed ased
APPENDIX VIII
UTICA ALPHA
The following Utica alphabetical order was drawn on June 7,1983 for the purpose of arranging an employees service credit according to Article XIII, paragraph L.
The first letter drawn "U" established a priority on the service credit list where service credit is equal among and between employees. The number one draw has priority and the corresponding letters and extending numbers have decreasing priority through number 26.
at	1.	U	14.	Z
	2.	V	15.	R
	3.	M	16.	K
	4.	T	17.	J
	5.	F	18.	H
	6.	G	19.	E
	7.	S	20.	B
	8.	N	21.	Y
	9.	L	22.	Q
	10.	C	23.	o
	11.	W	24.	p
	12.	D	25.	i
	13.	X	26.	A
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective as of September 14,2002, and remain in effect until June 30, 2004, unless otherwise specified and upon final ratification of the parties.
NONDISCRIMINATION
The Utica Community Schools and the Michigan State Board of Education comply with all Federal laws and regulations prohibiting discrimination and with all requirements and regulations of the United States Department of Education. It is the policy of these governmental agencies that no person on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, age, sex, marital status or handicap shall be discriminated against, excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of or otherwise be subjected to discrimination in any program or activity for which it is responsible or for which it receives financial assistance from the United States Department of Education.
67
APPENDIX IX
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT/UNDERSTANDING
69
Letter of Agreement Regarding Counselor Caseloads
The Utica Community Schools agrees to staff counseling caseloads at an average of 375 for Senior High and 400 for Junior High. When these numbers are exceeded in an individual building a representative of the building counseling staff, a building administrator, the Assistant Superintendent for Human Resources and the UEA President or their designees will meet to explore ways to deal with the situation.
70
Letter of Agreement
Regarding Re-opening Compensation and Benefits for 2003-2004
□r
dent
il
If there is change in the foundation allowance from the 2002-03 school year to the 2003-04 school year, the Master Agreement shall be re-opened for negotiations in the areas of compensation and benefits.
71

Letter of Agreement Regarding
Junior High School Day
During the 2003-04 school year the staffs of each junior high school will, consistent with the curriculum process, field test/pilot a supplemental instructional program.
Staffs will have the opportunity during the 2002-03 school year to use Professional Development time to develop these initiatives. All programs must have final approval prior to May 2003.
Implementation of these instructional programs will result in a 15-minute reduction of instructional workday beginning in the 2003-04 school year.
Evaluation Guidelines
Timeline	Probationary	|	Tenure
Commencement of school year (during the first five weeks or when otherwise appropriate)	Apprise teachers that they are scheduled to be evaluated.and of any additional responsibilities and evaluation criteria. Acquaint new employees who are scheduled to be evaluated with evaluation devices and procedures.
Within first two weeks of school	Board will inform the Association which administrator will be designated to execute the evaluation of all Special Education, Special Area, and Special Program teachers.
Prior to each formal observation	Notify the teacher at least three (3) school days in advance that the administrator intends to conduct a formal observation. The teacher will be allowed the opportunity to confer with the administrator prior to the observation. Teachers are encouraged to use this time to advise the evaluator of their goals and objectives, teaching strategies, and other information needed to assist the evaluator in understanding the teacher’s plans for the class that will be observed.
After each observation	The evaluator will confer as soon as possible following each observation. The purpose of the conference is to provide the teacher with specific information regarding the observations of the evaluator. If the evaluator has observed a “less than satisfactory” performance, such information will be provided to the teacher and verified in writing within one (1) week of the observation.
Prior to each written evaluation	Formally observe teacher at least twice (2x) for at least one (1) class period or instructional unit. First year probationary teachers will be observed at least two times (2x) before the final evaluation is completed. At least one (1) of these observations will be in the first semester and they must be at least sixty (60) calendar days between the first observation and the final observation. If the first observation results in a rating of less than satisfactory, a third observation shall be conducted. Other probationary teacher observations must be at least sixty (60) days apart. For tenure teachers, if the evaluator has observed a ’’less than satisfactory’’ performance in the first observation, the teacher shall be allowed at least 30 days to correct the noted deficiencies before the second observation. Teachers will not be observed before they have been appraised of the evaluation procedures and criteria, during the first two (2) weeks of school, or on the day preceding or following a school holiday or break.
73
General Timelines	Probationary teachers: Once (lx) each year and at least sixty (60) days before the close of each school year, an administrator shall provide a written evaluation to the probationary teacher	Tenure teachers: At least once every three (3) years and prior to June 1 of the year the teacher is being evaluated.
Written Evaluations	The building principal and/or the appropriate administrator will execute a written evaluation of all teachers in the building using the standardized UCS Teacher Performance Appraisal form. The evaluation will be based upon formal and informal observation and other disclosed methods of evaluation. (See definitions) The teacher will be evaluated on his/her performance for the school year in which the evaluation is completed.	
If the teacher does not agree . .	The teacher will have the opportunity to answer the evaluation in writing to the appropriate administrator, with a copy attached to the performance appraisal form and placed in the teacher’s personnel file.	
If the administrator evaluates the teacher’s performance as “less than satisfactory” on any of the criteria in the UCS performance appraisal form	Administrator shall.... Identify areas needing improvement •	Set forth ways in which the teacher is to improve. •	Set forth the assistance which will be provided for attaining such improvement (May be mutually agreed to - the teacher’s agreement is not required) •	Provide positive assistance •	Tenure teachers will be provided and IDP (using the standardized UCS tenure Teacher IDP form) which will accomplish the above requirements. •	Probationary teachers will have their IDP (as provided on the standard UCS Probationary Teacher IDP form) modified to provide the above assistance.	
At the conclusion of the IDP period ...	The administrator shall document the teacher’s progress on the IDP by written report and provide a copy to the teacher. Guidelines under the Michigan Teacher Tenure Act shall be followed as applicable to probationary and tenured teachers.	
General responsibilities of administrators	•	Assisting teachers in becoming oriented to evaluation process •	Apprising each teacher of teaching responsibilities. •	Observing the teacher’s work.Providing feedback regarding observations with notification of ’’Less than Satisfactory” performance when required. •	Executing written evaluations. •	Executing IDPs when appropriate.Forwarding copies to the superintendent and teacher. •	Maintaining personnel files of past reports •	Conducting all monitoring or observation of performance openly and with full knowledge of the teacher.	
74
General Principles	•	All bargaining unit members (whether certificated or not) are to be evaluated in accordance with these procedures using the standardized forms agreed to by the parties. •	Failure of the district to evaluate the teacher shall be considered as conclusive evidence that a teacher’s performance for that period was ’’Satisfactory”.	4 •	The performance of all teachers shall be presumed to be ’’Satisfactory” unless, as a result of these evaluation procedures, their performance is deemed to be ’’Less than Satisfactory”. •	The evaluations of all teachers are intended to be confidential and will be maintained in a manner to ensure the teacher’s privacy.
Definitions	
Informal Observation	An observation of a teacher’s classroom performance by the administrator which does not meet the criteria for a formal observation. Teachers must be aware that they are being observed. Observations must be done openly and in a professional manner.
Other disclosed methods	Information of a negative nature received from other administrators, students, parents, bargaining unit members, and other sources. This information may only be used if it was brought to the teacher’s attention in accordance with Article IX. 4.
Teacher	All members of the bargaining unit on tenure or probation, certificated or non-certificated, including counselors, school psychologists, school social workers, physical and occupational therapists, etc.
Probationary Teacher	All certificated teachers who have not yet attained tenure according to the provisions of the Michigan Teacher Tenure Act and all non-certificated employees hired after June 11, 1993 who are in their first four (4) years of employment with UCS.
Tenure Teacher	All certificated teachers who have attained tenure according to the provisions of the Michigan Teacher Tenure Act and all noncertificated employees with more than four (4) years of employment with UCS. (This definition only determines which evaluation process to use for non-certificated employees. It should not be construed as conferring tenure status as defined in the Michigan Teacher Tenure Act on any individual who is not employed in a position subject to the provisions of the Michigan Teacher Tenure Act).
75
UTICA EDUCATION ASSOCIATION UTICA COMMUNITY SCHOOLS
Negotiations Committee

Jim Matrille President
Etnalee Baldwin
Executive Director
Elyse Chynoweth Eppler Junior High
Ed Fromm
Flickinger Elementary
Jeff Groth
Malow Junior High
Forrest J ennings
Ford High
Cory Widener
Beck Elementary
Board of Education
Carol Klenow, Ed.D.
President
Kevin Lohmeier
Vice-President
Greg Wojtovich
Secretary
Stephen Truman
Treasurer
Gene Klida
Trustee
Cheryl Stratton
Trustee
Carl Tertito
Trustee
76