Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Sacramento City Unified School District Board of Education and Sacramento City Teachers Association (SCTA), California Teachers Association (CTA), National Education Association (NEA), (2004) (MOA)
K#: 830759
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Agreement Between
The Sacramento City Unified School District
And Sacramento City Teacher’s Association
Effective July 1,2004 Through June 30, 2007
BOARD OF EDUCATION
2005
Roy Grimes, President Manny Hernandez, Vice President Dawn McCoy, 2nd Vice President Jerry Houseman Richard Jennings Miguel Navarrette
Karen Young
ADMINISTRATION
M. Magdalena Carrillo Mejia, Ph.D., Superintendent Arturo Flores, Associate Superintendent
Evan Lum, Associate Superintendent Susan Miller, Associate Superintendent Joan Polster, Associate Superintendent
DISTRICT NEGOTIATING TEAM
Carol Mignone, Chief Negotiator Rhonda Calabrese, Team Member Patty Hagemeyer, Team Member
Evan Lum, Team Member Joan Polster, Team Member Kathleen Whalen, Team Member
SCTA BOARD OF DIRECTORS
2004
Marcie Launey, President Linda Tuttle, Vice President Robert Lynch, 2nd Vice President
Sandy Olson, Secretary Bob Nosier, Treasurer Tari Green, Elementary Susan Weir, Elementary
Jesus Rubio, Middle George McAdow, High School
Cris Johnson, Adult Ed Christina McCarty, Pupil Services Nancy Lester, Special Ed
Ward Rountree, Executive Director Manuel Villarreal, Executive Director
ASSOCIATE STAFF
Jolene Dodd Dori Estes
SCTA NEGOTIATING TEAM
Diane Eid Mike Bustos Robert Lynch
Aleta Singleton
David Fisher, Chair
Manuel Villarreal, Union Negotiator
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ARTICLE 1	-	RECOGNITION..................................................1
ARTICLE 2	-	DEFINITIONS..................................................2
ARTICLE 3	-	EFFECT OF AGREEMENT..........................................3
ARTICLE 4	-	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.........................................4
ARTICLES -	HOURS OF EMPLOYEMENT........................................10
ARTICLE 6	-	EVALUATION..................................................21
ARTICLE 7	-	ASSIGNMENTS.................................................27
ARTICLES -	TRANSFERS...................................................29
ARTICLE 9	-	LEAVES OF ABSENCE...........................................38
ARTICLE 10-	PERSONNEL FILES.............................................50
ARTICLE 11-	SAFETY CONDITIONS...........................................51
ARTICLE 12-	COMPENSATION................................................53
ARTICLE 13-	EMPLOYEE BENEFITS...........................................70
ARTICLE 14-	PERSONAL AND ACADEMIC FREEDOM...............................74
ARTICLE 15-	SUBSTITUTES.................................................75
ARTICLE 16-	LIAISON COMMITTEE...........................................76
ARTICLE 17-	CLASS SIZE..................................................77
ARTICLE 18-	ORGANIZATIONAL RIGHTS.......................................81
ARTICLE 19-	DISTRICT RIGHTS.............................................83
ARTICLE 20-	MENTOR TEACHER..............................................84
ARTICLE 21-	ORGANIZATIONAL SECURITY.....................................87
ARTICLE 22-	PROFESSIONAL GROWTH PROGRAM RELATED TO THE REQUIREMENTS FOR
RENEWAL OF CLEAR TEACHING CREDENTIALS.......................89
ARTICLE 23-	CLASSROOM TEACHER INSTRUCTIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.........91
ARTICLE 24-	SITE-BASED DECISION-MAKING..................................92
ARTICLE 25-	SUCCESSOR AGREEMENT.........................................94
ARTICLE 26-	DURATION....................................................95
1
July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2007
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A -	Evaluation Forms of All Members of the Certificated Non-Management Bargaining Unit
APPENDIX A-l -	Standards Based Evaluation Instrument and Evaluation Process: Reference No. PSL-F107
APPENDIX B-l -	K-12 and Preschool Teachers’ Salary Schedule, 2004 / 2005 (Effective approximately July 1, 2004)
APPENDIX B-l(a)-	K-12 and Preschool Teachers’ Salary Schedule, 2004 / 2005 - Minimum Teachers’ Salary Schedule Program (Effective approximately July 1, 2004 )
APPENDIX B-2 -	Extra Pay for Extra Duty Schedule, 2002 / 2003 & 2003 / 2004 (Effective approximately October 16,2001)
APPENDIX B-3 -	Salary Schedule for Non-Management Specialists Personnel, 2004 / 2005 (Effective approximately July 1, 2004)
APPENDIX B-4 -	Adult Education Teachers’ Salary Schedule, 2004 / 2005 (Effective approximately July 1, 2004)
APPENDIX B-5 -	Hourly Adult Education Teachers’ Salary Schedule, 2004 / 2005 (Effective approximately July 1, 2004)
APPENDIX B-6 -	Salary Schedule for Certificated Non-Management Children’s Center Personnel, 2004 / 2005 (Effective approximately July 1, 2004)
APPENDIX C-l -	Professional Improvement Plan Pre-Approval Applications
APPENDIX C-2 -	Request for Approval of Completed Features of Professional Improvement Plan
APPENDIX C-3 -	Professional Improvement Plan Pre-approval Application - New Column Program
APPENDIX C-4 -	Request for Approval of Completed Features of Professional Improvement Plan - New Column Program
APPENDIX D -	Special Education - Student Inclusion
APPENDIX E -	Elementary School Calendar Summaries - 2004 / 2005 through 2006 / 2007 School Year(s)
APPENDIX E-l(a)-	2004 / 2005 Elementary School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-l(b)-	2005 / 2006 Elementary School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-l(c)-	2006 / 2007 Elementary School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-2 -	Secondary School Calendar Summ^nes - 2004 / 2005 through 2006 / 2007School Year(s)
APPENDIX E-2(a)-	2004 / 2005 Secondary School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-2(b)-	2005 / 2006 Secondary School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-2(c)-	2006 / 2007 Secondary School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-3 -	Single Track Year-Round Education (YRE) Calendar Summaries - 2004 / 2005 through 2006 / 2007 School Year(s)
APPENDIX E-3(a)-	2004 / 2005 YRE School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-3(b) -	2005 / 2006 YRE School Calendar Summary July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2007
APPENDIX E-3(c)-	2006 / 2007 YRE School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-4 -	Adult Education (AE) Teachers Calendar Summaries - 2004 / 2005 through 2006 / 2007 School Year(s)
APPENDIX E-4(a)-	2004 / 2005 AE Teacher School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-4(b) -	2005 / 2006 AE Teacher School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-4(c)-	2006 / 2007 AE Teacher School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX F -	Reaching Goals and Eliminating Lost Prep Time
APPENDIX G -	Tentative Agreement 2004 / 2005, 2005 / 2006 and 2006 / 2007
APPENDIX H -	Peer Assistance and Review (PAR) Program - mutually agreed to “rollover” to Successor Agreement / Tentative Agreement
APPENDIX H-l -	Peer Assistance and Review (PAR) Program - Memorandum of Understanding Dated March 31, 2005; Harmonizing Existing Tentative Agreement Language with Education Code §44500
APPENDIX I	-	Jointly Funded Benefits Trust
APPENDIX J -	State Education Reform
APPENDIX K -	Staff Development Topics - 2004 / 2005
APPENDIX L -	Staff Development Topics - 2005 / 2006
APPENDIX M -	School Improvement & Public Perception
iii
July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 1	- RECOGNITION
1.1	The Board hereby recognizes the Sacramento City Teachers Association, hereinafter referred to as the
Association, as the exclusive and sole negotiation agent for:
Individuals in positions, the title for which includes the term "teacher" and in which the individual is under contract with the school District;
per session teachers excluding teachers of summer school;
counselors;
psychologists;
school social workers;
librarians, except the District librarian;
audiometrists;
nurses;
vocational specialists;
department chairpersons;
speech and language specialists;
program specialists;
resource specialists;
student activities advisers;
training specialists; and
substitute teachers.
1.2	The Board agrees not to meet and negotiate with any teachers' organization other than the Association for
the duration of this Agreement; further, the Board agrees not to negotiate with any teacher individually during the duration of this Agreement on matters subject to meeting and negotiating.
1.3	The Association recognizes the Board as the duly elected representative of the people and agrees to negotiate only
with the Board or its duly authorized representatives designated by the Board to act in its behalf.
1.4	The Association agrees that neither it nor its members or agents will attempt to represent in any
negotiations or grievances, the interests of anyone other than members of the unit, except the negotiation interests of summer school employees.
1
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 2	- DEFINITIONS
2.1	’’Teacher” refers to any employee who is included in the appropriate unit as defined in Article 1 and, therefor,
covered by the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
2.2	The term ’’Board” when used hereinafter in this Agreement means the Board of Education of the
Sacramento City Unified School District.
2.3	The term ’’school district” when used hereinafter in this Agreement shall refer to the Sacramento City Unified
School District.
2.4	The term ’’emergency” means a sudden unexpected happening; an unforeseen occurrence or condition;
specifically perplexing contingency or complication of circumstances; a sudden or unexpected occasion for action; exigency; pressing necessity.
2.5	The term ’’Association” when used hereinafter in this Agreement means the Sacramento City Teachers
Association.
2.6	Principal and Unit Administrator
2.6.1	The term ’’principal and unit administrator” means management employees who are the chief executive officers for one (1) or more schools or offices with total responsibility and authority to manage all affairs of the school or office.
2.7	Elementary or Secondary Site Administrator/Site Administrator
2.7.1	The above terms as used in this Agreement have identical meanings as principal and unit administrator as defined in 2.6.1 of this Article.
2.8	School year: The regular year defined in the calendar adopted for the elementary and secondary schools of
the District and the calendar adopted for adult schools.
2.9	Service year: The school year plus the additional workdays required for specific job classifications within
the bargaining unit.
2.10	Teacher-Related Classes: Those certificated non-management employees working with students and paid on the teachers’ single salary schedule and who may be required to work additional days beyond the school year and/or additional hours beyond the teachers' work day.
2
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 3	- EFFECT OF AGREEMENT
3.1	This Agreement terminates and supersedes all past practices, agreements, procedures, traditions, and rules
or regulations concerning the matters herein.
3.2	The parties agree that during the negotiations which culminated in this Agreement, each party enjoyed the
right and opportunity to make demands and proposals or counter proposals with respect to any matter not reserved by policy or law from compromise through negotiations, and that the understandings and agreements arrived at after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth herein.
3.3	The parties agree, therefor, that the other shall not be obligated to meet and negotiate with respect to any
subject or matter whether referred to herein or not even though subject or matter may not have been in the contemplation or knowledge of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement. The terms and conditions of this Agreement may be altered, changed, added to, deleted from or modified only through the voluntarily mutual intent of the parties in a written amendment.
3.4	Should any article, section, or clause of this Agreement be declared illegal by court of competent
jurisdiction, said article, section, or clause, as the case may be, shall be automatically deleted from this Agreement to the extent that it violated the law. The remaining articles, sections, and clauses shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of the Agreement if not directly affected by the deleted article, section, or clause.
3.5	Each party agrees that they will neither take, nor threaten to take, any reprisals, directly or indirectly, against the
other party or any members thereof regarding any action taken on the part of such persons in the exercising of their rights and responsibilities under this Agreement.
3.6	The Board agrees that it shall not take any reprisals against any bargaining unit member nor any civil action
against SCTA or its affiliated organizations for engaging in concerted activities.
3.7	The District agrees to meet and negotiate with the Association on those elements of the District affirmative
action guidelines that relate to matters within the scope of representation under the Rodda Act.
3.8	The Association and the District agree that differences between the parties shall be settled by peaceful means as
provided in this Contract. For the duration of this Contract, the Association, in consideration of the terms and conditions provided herein, will not engage in, instigate or condone any strike or work stoppage of members of the bargaining unit.
This provision will not apply to any re-opener period after impasse procedures under the EERA have been exhausted, and after such exhaustion of procedure, the Board will also maintain the right to take unilateral action on negotiated items pursuant to the provisions of the EERA.
3.9	The parties agree that teachers employed at K-8 schools shall enjoy all rights identified in the Sacramento
Agreement, unless modified herein.
3.10	The parties agree that the District, including the students, the teachers and other staff, as well as the community, will benefit from improvement in the negotiation/grievance processes and improvement in the relationship between the parties. To that end the parties will seek to initiate a program to improve employer-union relations.
3
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 4	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
4.1
4.1.1
4.1.2
4.1.2.1
4.1.2.2
4.1.2.3
4.1.2.4
4.1.2.5
4.1.3
4.1.4
4.2
4.2.1
4.2.2
4.2.3
4.2.4
4.2.5
4.2.6
Definitions
A grievance is an allegation by one or more members of the bargaining unit or the Association that a member(s) has been adversely affected by a violation, misinterpretation, or misapplication of a specific provision of this Agreement.
A grievance shall not include and this grievance procedure shall not apply to any of the following:
Any matter upon which the District is without authority to act;
Any discharge, dismissal, or layoff of a member of the unit;
Any attempt to alter or change this Agreement;
The evaluation of members of the unit, except for alleged violations of procedural matters;
Claims of discrimination by reason of age, race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation or national origin where there are adequate state and federal administrative and judicial remedies available for redress of such claims.
A working day is any day during which the grievant of the unit is required to render service to the District.
A "grievant" is a person or persons asserting a grievance and who is (are) a member(s) of the unit or Association.
Purpose and General Provisions
The purpose of this grievance procedure is to process a claim of grievance and to secure, at the lowest administrative level, solutions to problems which may from time to time arise concerning the welfare and working conditions and working relationships of those covered under this Agreement.
This grievance procedure shall not be construed as in any way hindering, discouraging, or denying the settlement of grievances or problems within the normal administrative channels of the District.
Nothing contained herein will be construed as limiting the right of any teacher having a grievance to discuss the matter informally with any appropriate member of the administration, and to have the grievance adjusted without intervention by the Association, provided that the adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement. The grievant may request an Association representative to attend any informal meeting called to adjust the grievance.
In the event a grievance is filed at such time that it cannot be processed through all the steps in this grievance procedure by the end of the school year and, if left unresolved until the beginning of the following school year, could result in harm to an aggrieved person, the time limits set forth herein shall be reduced so that the procedure may be exhausted prior to the end of the school year or as soon as is practicable. Time limits set forth in this Agreement may be extended by mutual consent.
No grievance shall be recognized unless it shall have been presented at the appropriate level within thirty (30) working days after the grievant knew or reasonably should have known of the act or condition and its aggrieving nature that forms the basis of the grievance, and if not so presented, the grievance will be considered as waived.
A decision rendered at any level shall be considered final unless an appeal is registered within the time limits specified.
Time allowances set forth at each level may be extended by mutual consent of the grievant and the District.
4
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
4.2.7
4.2.8
4.2.9
4.2.10
4.2.11
4.2.12
4.2.13
4.2.14
4.3
4.3.1
4.3.2
4.3.3
Should the processing of any grievance require that an employee be released from his/her regular assignment, he/she shall be released without loss of pay or benefits. If an employee is released to participate in arbitration, he/she shall be released without loss of pay.
No reprisals of any kind shall be taken by or against any participant in the grievance procedure by reason of such participation.
All documents, communications, and records dealing with the processing of a grievance shall be filed separately from the personnel files of the participants.
All parties to the grievance shall make available to other parties involved all pertinent information not privileged under the law in its possession or control which is relevant to the issues raised by the grievance.
If a successor agreement has not been fully negotiated nor ratified by the parties, the provisions of this Article shall continue as though this contract were extended until the start of any new agreement.
Level I of the grievance process may be waived if the Association and principal or site administrator agree, Level II may be waived if the District and the Association agree.
In those instances in which related or similar grievances are being heard, the Association and the District may agree to combine the grievances to be presented before a hearing officer and/or before an arbitrator.
The grievant, respondent, or the superintendent’s designee for Employee Relations may request the presence of a representative or representatives at any meeting.
Level I Local Problem Solving
Preamble: The purpose of Level I shall be to solve the specific allegation(s), issue(s) or problem(s) as framed by the grievant at the site or lowest possible level. The grievant and principal or unit administrator should attempt to resolve the grievance either informally or formally at Level I. The parties are encouraged to work out a solution that is consistent with the Contract. Solutions reached at Level I are considered non-precedential.
Informal Track: A grievance may be discussed orally with grievanfs principal or unit administrator with the objective of resolving the matter informally, without the filing of the grievance form. However, nothing shall preclude the filing of a written grievance prior to or during the informal meeting. The informal process may include the SCTA as grievance representative.
a.	The intent of the meeting is to focus on solution. The parties shall attempt to define the issue, discuss interests, explore options, and, if possible, agree to an outcome. Upon request, the solution, if any, will be reduced in writing.
b.	If through formal or informal means, resolution is reached in writing or other mutually acceptable manner, all grievance documents may be destroyed;
c.	Solutions that require implementation beyond the school site or unit level shall first be reviewed for implementation by the appropriate District-level administrator. Solutions that do not require review and are accepted will be implemented by the principal or unit administrator.
In the event the grievant is not satisfied with attempted resolution by informal means, and the grievant wishes to file a formal grievance, the grievant must submit the grievance in writing to the principal or unit administrator upon forms provided by the District.
Formal Track: If a formal grievance has been filed, the grievant may:
a.	discuss the grievance personally, or
5
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
b.	request that a designated grievance representative accompany the grievant to the meeting to discuss the grievance.
The meeting should be held within ten (10) working days after filing the grievance.
4.3.4	Within ten (10) working days following the meeting to discuss the grievance, the principal or unit administrator shall render the decision and the reasons therefor, in writing, to the grievant and to the exclusive representative. Information copies of the decision at this level shall be sent to the superintendent's designee for Employee Relations and the appropriate District administrator having responsibility for the organizational segment with which the grievance was processed.
4.3.5	The written grievance should include:
a.	A description of the specific grounds of the grievance;
b.	A listing of the specific article or section of the Agreement alleged to have been violated;
c.	A listing of specific actions requested of the principal or unit administrator which will remedy the
grievance.
4.3.6	Conduct of the Level I Meeting:
a.	The intent of the meeting is to focus on a solution to the specific allegation(s), issue(s) or problem(s). The parties shall attempt to define the issue, discuss interests, explore options, and, if possible, agree to an outcome;
b.	If through formal or informal means, resolution is reached in writing or other mutually acceptable manner, all grievance documents may be destroyed;
c.	Solutions that require implementation beyond the school site or unit level shall first be reviewed for implementation by the appropriate District-level administrator. Solutions that do not require review and are accepted will be implemented by the principal or unit administrator.
4.4	Level II
4.4.1	If the Association is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Level I, the Association may file a request for a Level II meeting within ten (10) working days of the receipt of the Level I decision. Grievants not complying with the above time constraints for filing at Level II will be deemed to have waived their rights to a Level II meeting. The party filing for a Level II meeting will forward the written grievance and the Level I decision to the Office of Employee Relations. The written grievance should include:
4.4.1.1	A description of the specific grounds of the grievance, including names, dates, and places necessary for an understanding of the grievance;
4.4.1.2	A listing of the specific article or section of the Agreement alleged to have been violated.
4.4.1.3	A listing of specific actions requested of the school District which will remedy the grievance.
4.4.2	The Level II form for appeal shall be considered a formal request for a meeting and a written decision by the superintendent or his/her designee. The meeting should be held within twenty (20) working days from receipt of the grievance by the Office of Employee Relations.
4.4.2.1	The District and SCTA agree to make every effort to schedule Level II grievance meetings twice a month. The intent of the parties is to hear all grievances within 40 working days of time of appeal as postmarked.
4.4.2.2	There shall be two tracks to solve the problem. The union shall reserve the right to choose either:
a.	the Mediation Track as described in Sections 4.4.3 through 4.4.3.8 or,
6
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
b.	the Interest Based Track as described in Sections 4.4.4 through 4.4.4.3.
4.4.2.3	Under either Track, the parties understand that mutual agreements secured at Level II are precedent setting
unless the parties stipulate otherwise.
4.4.2.4	Release time will be provided for the teacher(s) participating at Level II meetings upon the written request
of the Association.
4.4.3	Mediation
Grievances appealed to Level II may be submitted to mediation. Mediation shall take place on the first and third Tuesday of each calendar month. Subsequent days for mediation will be scheduled, if necessary. The parties agree to mutually develop a Level II grievance calendar for each year at the same time mediators are selected, as per 4.4.3.3.
4.4.3.1	Under no case shall the adjustment or resolution of grievances at this level exceed forty (40) working days from the date of their appeal at Level II, unless extended by mutual agreement of the parties. If not extended, the Association may appeal the grievance to Level III.
4.4.3.2	Mediators who have been selected by the parties to mediate grievance disputes at Level II, will be scheduled on a
rotating and available basis.
4.4.3.3	The parties agree to meet annually in May to review the mediators listed above. The list of mediators for the subsequent year shall be mutually agreed upon, but should the parties be unable to agree on a new list, the previous list will continue until such time as a new list is agreed to.
4.4.3.4	All costs of the mediator, if any, shall be borne equally by the parties. No party shall purposely withhold
information at this level but shall disclose all information relevant to the grievance for consideration by the other party.
4.4.3.5	Mediation Procedures
The mediation procedure shall be entirely informal in nature, however, copies of exhibits upon which either party bases its case shall be shared with the other party. The relevant facts should be elicited in a narrative fashion to the extent possible, rather than through examination and cross-examination of witnesses. The rules of evidence will not apply and no record of the proceedings will be made. All persons involved in the events giving rise to the grievance should be encouraged to participate fully in the proceedings, both by stating their views and by asking questions of the other participants at the mediation hearing.
4.4.3.6	The primary effort of the mediator shall be to assist the parties in settling the stated grievance in a mutually
satisfactory fashion. In attempting to achieve a settlement, the mediator is free to use all of the techniques customarily associated with the mediation process, including private conferences with only one party. If settlement is not possible, the mediator shall provide the parties with an immediate bench opinion, based on the stated grievance and the Collective Bargaining Agreement, as to how the grievance would be decided if it went to Arbitration. That opinion would not be final or binding, but would be advisory. It would be delivered orally and would be accompanied by a statement of the reasons for the mediator's opinion. The advisory opinion may be used as the basis for further settlement discussions or for withdrawal or granting of the grievance. If the grievance is not settled, granted or withdrawn, the parties are free to arbitrate. If they do, the mediator shall not serve as arbitrator, and no offers or concessions made by the parties or the mediator during mediation can be used against a party during arbitration.
Neither attorneys nor court reporters or any other type of note-taker shall be allowed to be present at the proceedings.
4.4.3.7	If the parties agree to be bound by a mediator's recommendation, the subsequent Agreement shall be reduced to
writing and signed by the parties.
7
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
4.4.3.8	Any grievance not resolved within twenty (20) working days of the initial mediation session with no
subsequent mediation session(s) scheduled and which the Association wishes to pursue may be appealed by the Association to Level III. Any grievance not resolved at the initial mediation session or additional mediation session(s) and which the Association wishes to pursue may be appealed by the Association to Level III within forty (40) working days of its submission by the grievant or the Association at Level IL Any such appeal shall be made within ten (10) working days of the appropriate above-mentioned deadline.
4.4.4	Interest Based Track
4.4.4.1	The interest based approach is intended to utilize any or all of the six step interest based problem solving model and appropriate individuals needed to reach a mutually acceptable solution.
4.4.4.2	The six step model shall include the following:
(1)	Selecting an Issue
(2)	Describing the Situation
(3)	Identifying Interests
(4)	Generating Options and BATNAS	(alternatives)
(5)	Identifying Criteria for the	Decision
(6)	Deciding on the Outcome
4.4.4.3	Any grievance not resolved shall be treated per the timeline provisions of 4.4.3.8 of this Article.
4.5	Level III
4.5.1	If the Association is not satisfied with the decision at Level II, the Association may request a hearing before an arbitrator within twenty (20) working days of the receipt of the Level II decision. Such requests by the Association’s executive director, or official designee, will be in writing and shall be filed with the superintendent's designee for Employee Relations. The Association will within ten (10) working days of the filing of the request for arbitration with the District, notify the American Arbitration Association and request a list of arbitrators. If such request is not filed within the time limitations prescribed above, the grievant will be deemed to have waived the right to a Level III meeting.
4.5.1.1	Within thirty (30) calendar days of the appeal to Level III, and in no case later than thirty (30) days prior to the Level III meeting before the arbitrator, the parties agree to meet in a conference to:
a.	Attempt to frame the issue to be submitted to the arbitrator
b.	Share all evidence
c.	Clarify whether a court reporter is necessary, determine the site
d.	Re-initiate efforts to settle, if possible.
4.5.1.2	The parties agree that any evidence discovered subsequent to conference will be shared at least seven (7) days prior to arbitration. Evidence shared less than seven (7) days for presentation of new evidence will be grounds for delay at the request of the receiving party. The party presenting new evidence (initially) shall be charged for the cost of the arbitrator.
4.5.2	A certified court reporter shall be employed to record verbatim the entire arbitration hearing if requested by either the grievant or the District. In any case in which a court reporter is involved, the parties shall share equally the cost of such reporter, including per diem, mileage, and other out-of-pocket expenses. If the arbitrator requests a court reporter, the parties shall likewise share equally the cost of such reporter. The cost of transcripts shall be borne by the party ordering such transcripts.
4.5.3	When arbitration has been requested, the parties may mutually agree on an arbitrator or shall contact the American Arbitration Association for a list of arbitrators in accordance with American Arbitration Association procedures. The grievant or designee and the superintendent's designee for Employee Relations shall
8
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
alternately strike names from such list until only one (1) name remains. This person shall be designated as the arbitrator and shall proceed to hear the grievance under the voluntary rules of the American Arbitration Association insofar as said rules do not conflict with the grievance procedure in this Agreement.
4.5.4	All costs for the services of the arbitrator, including, but not limited to, per diem expenses, his/her travel and subsistence expenses and the cost of any hearing room will be borne equally by the Board and the Association. All other costs will be borne by the party incurring them.
4.5.5	The function of the arbitrator shall be:
4.5.5.1	To hold a hearing concerning the grievance, and
4.5.5.2	To render an award in accordance with the timelines agreed to between the parties and the arbitrator after
the close of the hearing. The arbitrator's decision will be binding on all parties.
4.5.6	Once the arbitrator has been selected, hearings shall commence and be held at the convenience of the arbitrator. However, hearings shall be confined to working days.
4.5.7	Neither the District nor the grievant shall be permitted to assert any grounds or evidence before the arbitrator which was not previously disclosed to the other party. The arbitrator shall consider only those issues which have been properly carried through prior steps as required by the provisions of this grievance procedure.
4.5.8	The arbitrator shall not render any award which conflicts with or alters this Agreement. It is understood, however, that the arbitrator shall interpret the Agreement in accordance with acceptable rules of contract construction.
4.5.9	The arbitrator is empowered to include in any award such financial reimbursements or other remedies as judged to be proper.
4.5.10	Each party shall bear the full costs for its representation in the arbitration. The administrative costs of the American Arbitration Association and the arbitrator's fees and charges shall be divided equally between the grievant and the District.
4.6	The parties agree that it is beneficial to resolve pending grievances as expeditiously and fairly as possible.
To that end, the parties are interested in bringing pending grievances, particularly those at the arbitration stage to a conclusion in a reasonable time. The parties therefor agree to meet and seriously consider methods to expedite pending grievance resolution including, but not limited to, considering grouping grievances on similar issues, mediation/arbitration procedures, appointment of special masters or permanent panels and other alternatives which the parties may agree upon.
9
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 5 - HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT
5.1	Work calendars in non-year round schools will be implemented following the same pattern as used in the 1995-96
school year.
5.1.1	For the 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 school years, the required days of service shall be one hundred eighty (180) teaching days, one (1) nonteaching day and three (3) staff development days subject to the continuance of the Staff Development program each school year, as provided in Articles 12.15 and 12.16 et seq.
5.1.2	The service year referred to in Section 5.1.1 is specified in the school calendars attached to this Agreement as the Calendar Appendix.
5.2	Shortened days at the primary level shall be 230 minutes. Shortened days at all other levels shall be no more than
240 minutes, except at the intermediate level which shall be 245 minutes.
5.2.1	One (1) shortened day shall be provided on the last teaching day of each quarter or trimester for the purpose of preparing grades and reports in all schools. In no case shall a teacher be required to submit grades and reports prior to 3:15 on the last teaching day of each quarter or trimester. For the elementary level these reports and records days shall be beyond those granted in 5.2.2.
5.2.2	At the elementary level, six (6) shortened days shall be scheduled for parent conferences at the end of the first quarter or trimester. Five (5) shortened days shall also be provided at the end of the third quarter or second trimester for parent conferences; if the principal and staff agree, these days may be waived. The scheduling of these shortened days shall be determined at the school level by the site administrator and the school faculty within the dates prescribed in the school calendar. Such parent conferences are to be held only on those days provided for that purpose.
5.2.2.1	In schools and classes wherein the students are transported daily, the scheduling of the days and times of these conferences must be done within the limitations of transportation services.
5.2.2.2	At the middle school level, grades 7-8, six (6) shortened days shall be provided and used as follows:
Four (4) days to be used for reports and records at the end of each quarter. Two (2) days for inservice education to be arranged by the principal, with a consensus of the school staff required.
5.2.3	Use of Early Schedule at Elementary Schools
5.2.3.1	During the first ten (10) days of the school year, all students at the elementary level shall be on the early schedule.
5.2.3.2	During the last five (5) days of the school year, all students at the elementary level shall be on the early schedule,
excepting that the last teaching day shall be a shortened day.
5.2.4	Secondary school instructional minutes will be sufficient to meet SB 813 minimum requirements for incentive without counting zero or seven periods.
5.2.4.1	Schools holding finals shall offer not less than a 369-minute regularly scheduled student day excluding lunch. In no case shall passing periods exceed a total of 39 minutes. There shall be four (4) days at the end of each semester for finals. These days shall be exclusive of reports and records, and there shall be no regularly scheduled finals on reports and records days. (See shortened day schedule.)
5.2.4.2	Schools not holding finals shall offer not less than a 364-minute regularly scheduled student day excluding lunch.
In no case shall passing periods exceed a total of 34 minutes.
5.2.5	If the high schools generate sufficient extra minutes, the school principal shall utilize those minutes for additional shortened days during final examination schedules.
5.2.6	The parties do hereby agree to negotiate, annually, the calendars for the succeeding year during reopeners unless the calendars are already in agreement.
10
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
5.2.7	The calendar(s) apply to all elementary, secondary, and adult schools, except that shortened days shall not be observed at the kindergarten level or in the adult schools.
5.3	Service Day
5.3.1	The service day for all members of the bargaining unit with classroom duties shall begin fifteen (15) minutes before the first assigned class or preparation period and shall end fifteen (15) minutes after the last assigned class or preparation period. Except that on service days preceding scheduled holidays, vacations, or Saturdays, the teachers’ day shall end at the close of the pupil's day.
5.3.1.1	However, at the elementary level, a teacher may be assigned on a Friday or a day before a holiday to duties within
fifteen minutes after school on an equitable and rotating basis. But teachers who assume such duties shall be allowed to leave 15 minutes early on another day in that week or a succeeding week.
5.3.2	The service day for all members of the bargaining unit without classroom duties, with the exception of those noted in 5.3.4 through 5.3.6, shall be equivalent to the teachers' day on the site(s) to which they are assigned.
5.3.3	The service day on shortened days or nonteaching days shall be equal to the length of a regular service day.
5.3.4	The counselor's service day shall be 10 minutes more than a regular teacher's service day at the site where the
counselor serves. The counselor's schedule will be arranged by the site administrator, including the counselor's lunch schedule.
5.3.5	The service day for program specialists, psychologists and social workers shall be eight (8) hours excluding lunch.
5.3.6	The service day for kindergarten teachers shall be equal to the primary teachers in the school of assignment.
5.3.7	Children’s Centers Hours
5.3.7.1	Children's Centers teachers shall work the same hours as classified Children's Centers employees during the winter recess and summer vacation.
5.3.7.2	For Children's Centers teachers who eat lunch with their assigned children, the service days will be eight (8)
hours including lunch.
5.3.7.3	For Children's Center teachers who do not eat lunch with their assigned students, the service day for Children's Center teachers shall be eight (8) hours including relief breaks and excluding lunch.
5.3.8	Within the constraints imposed within this Article, work site schedules will be determined by the site administrator. These schedules will include, but not be limited to, student beginning and dismissal times, instructional periods, preparation times, staff relief breaks, student recesses, lunch periods for staff and students, and the workday or teaching schedule as applicable for individual members of the bargaining unit assigned to the administrator's work site.
5.3.9	The scheduling of the service day for personnel without classroom duties on a regular daily basis shall be specified by the site or unit administrator after conferring with the individual employee.
5.3.10	Every effort will be made for teachers who are assigned to more than one (1) school to minimize travel time and ensure an adequate amount of time for lunch and preparation periods.
5.3.11	Principals of schools served by the same elementary special subjects specialists or any other teachers serving at two (2) locations will confer to make every effort to see that the duties assigned that teacher will be no greater than those of any regular teacher on the staff of the school.
5.3.12	When eight-hour employees are required to work beyond their regular eight (8) hour day, they will be granted compensatory time off equivalent to the overtime worked.
5.3.13	Scheduling of compensatory time shall be consistent with the needs of the District. All compensatory time shall be taken at times approved by the supervisor.
11
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
5.4	Preparation Time/Extra Allocation Time
5.4.1	Each middle junior high, and senior/high school teacher will be provided one (1) preparation period daily which
will equal the standard instruction period in each individual school.
5.4.1.1	No junior high or middle school teacher shall be required to function as a department chairperson.
5.4.2	Each elementary teacher will be provided at least ninety (90) minutes of preparation time per week.
5.4.2.1	Teachers hired into preparation specialist positions are intended to be those with regular K-6 credentials. Those preparation specialists teachers who worked in the elementary preparation program in 1991-92 and return to a preparation specialist position in 1994-95 shall not be required to have a regular K-6 credential.
5.4.2.1.1	Each site shall determine how to best and fully utilize its above-staffing allocation for the school year.
5.4.2.2	The parties have established the goal to work towards providing 180 minutes of prep time for elementary teachers
by use of existing resources. This goal applies to each week which includes a regular teaching day. The sites may provide one or more of the following options within legal parameters and program needs. Annually, the site shall decide which option(s) will be used.
a.	Early/late options
(1)	The doubling of class size reduction (CSR) and non-CSR classes during the early or late reading periods. This can be done depending on safety, facilities, and program. Reading and library skills teachers will provide the service to the doubled class. The doubling up means that each two teachers will count as one.
(2)	Doubling up of CSR classes during the middle part of the day. This can be done depending on safety, facilities, and program. Reading and library skills teachers may provide the service to the doubled class.
(3)	By student exchange where a teacher teaches another class of students in the early period, providing prep for their teacher. The teacher providing prep in the morning will receive prep in the late period by a similar exchange.
(4)	By early day prep. Where possible, all students would be on an early schedule. The time difference would be considered prep time.
(5)	By Computer Lab teachers or resource teachers, where available. Such teachers may provide the program for students and prep for their teachers.
b.	Sutterville Non-Early/late Options
(1)	Doubling up of CSR classes during the day. This can be done depending on safety, facilities, and program. Reading and library skills teachers may provide the service to the doubled class. Two teachers will count as one.
(2)	By Computer Lab teachers or Computer Lab Resource teachers, where available. Such teachers may provide the program for students and prep time for their teachers.
c.	For all Elementary schools
(1)	Flexible prep time for prep specialist teachers. Ordinarily, prep time is expected to be provided
in approximate 45 minute segments. However, in order to facilitate scheduling, prep specialist prep time may be allocated in shorter segments when documentably necessary. In return, time on shortened days after the student day shall be considered prep time for prep specialists.
(2)	The prep specialist teaching prep day is understood to be the same as all other grade 1-6 teachers at the site.
12
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
(3)	In those schools where additional minutes are available within a preparation specialist's instructional day, those minutes are to be used to provide additional minutes of preparation time on a regular or intermittent basis to qualifying teachers. The available minutes are to be distributed as equitably as possible among the qualifying teachers. It needs to be reiterated that it is not appropriate for a preparation specialist's time to be assigned to other programatic uses outside of the elementary preparation program at a site even though it is acknowledged that there are many such needs.
d.	By the purchase of extra FTE prep teachers beyond the contract allocation.
e.	By use of banked time.
f.	The site may add additional options with the approval of the parties.
g.	Doubling of CSR classes is not considered a class size violation.
5.4.2.3	The time scheduled for elementary special subjects teachers in each elementary school shall be rounded upward to
the nearest whole day.
5.4.3	Elimination of lost prep time during weeks with holidays. (See Appendix F)
5.4.3.1	Prep time loss during weeks with holidays and during shortened and/or early days will be made up by using one or more of the following options.
a.	Schools calling substitutes.
b.	Payment for prep loss. Payment will be based on the pro-rated higher substitute cost.
c.	Banked inservice prep time. During each of the 328 minute staff development days, all elementary
teachers will receive 45 minutes of prep time.
(1)	Prep time received during staff development days will be considered as banked time to be used
during incomplete school weeks with holidays, or during shortened and/or early days when normally scheduled prep cannot be provided.
(2)	Staff development days must comply with legal requirements and must not exceed the teacher's regular day.
d.	Rescheduling of prep time. This can include rotation of regular prep periods during the school year.
5.4.4	. All special class teachers as defined by Special Education shall, at the teachers' discretion provide themselves preparation time equal to the preparation time provided other teachers in their school. The site administrator shall assist in the implementation of this preparation period.
5.4.5	Full-time Children’s Center teachers shall be provided 150 minutes of duty-free preparation time per week. Scheduling of the preparation time shall be the responsibility of the site administrator. The site administrator will confer with the teachers on this matter.
5.4.5.1	Preparation time will be prorated based on the proportion of time a part-time Children's Center teacher is employed.
5.4.6 Teachers shall not be required to assume other duties or responsibilities during preparation time without their consent, except under emergency circumstances to provide for the supervision and/or protection of students. No teacher shall be required to give up more than two (2) preparation periods for emergency situations per year, except in those schools where an alternative program has been approved by the faculty.
13
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
5.5	Relief Breaks
5.5.1	The service day shall include twenty (20) minutes of relief breaks at the rate of ten (10) minutes in the morning and ten (10) minutes in the afternoon. In no case shall a single break be less than five (5) minutes.
5.5.2	The site administrator shall be responsible for scheduling the supervision of students during the time established for relief periods.
5.5.3	A daily fifteen (15) minute a.m. and a fifteen (15) minute p.m. rest break will be provided all seven (7) or eight (8) hour employees.
5.6	Lunch
5.6.1	All teachers shall be provided with a minimum thirty (30) minute uninterrupted lunch period daily.
5.6.2	Each special subjects teacher shall be scheduled at least the same lunchtime allotment as the regular teachers at
the same site.
5.7	Maximum Teachers Instruction Day
5.7.1	The maximum regularly scheduled primary teachers' instructional day including preparation time when scheduled shall be 328 minutes including a 60 minute early period and a 60 minute late period, but excluding recess and a 40 minute lunch period. The staff and principal may agree to decrease or increase lunch by 5 minutes within the limitations of the District transportation system and local needs.
5.7.1	.2 The maximum regularly scheduled intermediate teachers' instructional day including preparation time when scheduled shall be 338 minutes including a 45 minute early period and a 45 minute late period, but excluding recess and a 40-minute lunch period. The staff and principal may agree to decrease or increase lunch by 5 minutes within the limitations of the District transportation system and local needs.
5.7.1.2.1	In those schools not utilizing the early/late schedule, the maximum regularly scheduled intermediate teachers' instructional day including preparation time when scheduled shall be 327 minutes excluding lunch and recess. The staff and principal may agree to decrease or increase lunch by 5 minutes within the limitations of the District transportation system and local needs.
5.7.1.3 The maximum regularly scheduled kindergarten teachers' instructional day shall be 200 minutes.
5.7.2	At the secondary level the maximum number of regularly scheduled student instructional periods for teachers will be five (5) periods per day in those schools in which the instructional schedule is based upon a six (6) period day.
5.7.2.1	The maximum regularly scheduled high school teachers' instructional day shall be 275 minutes excluding lunch, passing time, relief breaks, and preparation, subject to adjustment to 279 minutes to meet SB 813 or other minimum requirements.
5.7.2.2	At the middle school, the maximum instructional time for teachers shall not exceed 301 minutes, including
preparation periods but excluding student passing time, teacher relief breaks, and lunch periods. The minimum instructional day for middle school students shall be 330 minutes, excluding lunch. Passing periods shall not exceed seven (7) minutes each.
5.7.3	The parties agree to add fifteen (15) minutes to the student day for the purpose of establishing 45 hours of common planning time per year at the District’s high schools. Such hours shall be compensated at the per session rate. The intent of the parties adding the 15 minutes is for the purpose of establishing common planning time based on the banked minutes. The effective date of this provision shall be November 1, 2003.
5.7.3.1	The parties agree that for the 2004-05 school year, the affected teachers at any high school may seek a variance to the collective bargaining agreement for the purpose of implementing advisory time and/or flexible scheduling. SCTA agrees to modify its bylaws to set the threshold for a variance in accordance with this paragraph at fifty-five (55%) percent.
14
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
5.7.3.2	The parties agree that for the 2004-05 school year, the affected teachers at any middle or elementary school may
seek a variance to the collective bargaining agreement for the purposes of establishing common planning time. SCTA agrees to modify it bylaws to set the threshold for a variance in accordance with this paragraph at fifty-five (55%) percent.
5.7.4	Maximum Teacher’s Instructional Day - Sutterville Schedule I K-8 Program
5.7.4.1	The maximum regularly scheduled kindergarten teachers' instructional day shall be 200 minutes.
5.7.4.2	The maximum regularly scheduled primary teachers' instructional day, including preparation time when
scheduled, shall be 285 minutes per day, but excluding recess and a 40-minute lunch period. The staff and principal may agree to decrease or increase lunch by five (5) minutes within the limitations of the District transportation system and local needs.
5.7.4.2.1	Shortened days shall be 5.1 and 5.2 et seq., of the Sacramento Agreement except that the length of the primary
shortened day shall be 235 minutes each. However, the staff and the principal will schedule an additional four (4) shortened days for articulation purposes.
5.7.4.3	The maximum regularly scheduled intermediate teachers' instructional day, including preparation time when
scheduled, shall be 305 minutes but excluding recess and a forty (40) minute lunch period. The staff and principal may agree to decrease or increase lunch by five (5) minutes within the limitations of the District transportation system and local needs.
5.7.4.3.1	Shortened days shall be per 5.1. and 5.2 et seq., of the Sacramento Agreement except that the length of the
intermediate shortened day shall be 241 minutes each.
5.7.4.4	No early days will be scheduled for Grades 1 through 6.
5.7.4.5	The instructional day for Grades 7 and 8 shall be per 5.7.2 and 5.7.2.2 of the Sacramento Agreement.	However,
Leonardo da Vinci may utilize an alternating core program for its five (5) period day.
5.7.4.5.1	Shortened days for 7th and 8th grade shall be per 5.2.2.2 of the Sacramento Agreement.
5.7.4.6	Relief breaks at K-8 schools may be increased to 30 minutes per day from the 20-minute	standard. K-8 schools
shall provide a plan to ensure that every teacher is treated equitably and that every teacher receives a break.
5.7.4.7	K-8 schools with magnet resource teachers may develop a site plan that increases the preparation time for primary
and intermediate teachers. The plan design may include the use of magnet resource teacher services.
5.8	Special Assignments
5.8.1	Management has the right to assign teachers to special-duty assignments with the understanding that teachers will participate in such activities.
5.8.1.1	No teacher shall be required to participate in a special-duty assignment more than four (4) times during a school year, no more than one (1) of which shall be on a Friday. Nothing precludes teachers from volunteering for such activities.
5.8.1.2	Saturday, Sunday, and holiday special assignments will be made on a voluntary basis.
5.8.1.3	No teacher shall be required to accept any overnight duty. Such assignments may be made on a voluntary basis.
5.8.2	The site administrator will make these special assignments only as necessary and in a manner which distributes
the extra duties and responsibilities as equitably as possible to all concerned staff.
5.8.3	The site administrator shall confer with teachers when planning activities which might occur outside the maximum service day in which the teacher may be involved.
15
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
5.9
5.9.1
5.9.2
5.9.3
5.9.4
5.9.5
5.9.6
5.9.7
5.9.8
5.9.9
5.10
5.10.1
5.10.2
5.10.3
5.10.4
5.10.5
5.10.6
5.10.7
5.10.8
5.10.9
5.10.10
5.11
5.11.1
Staff Meetings
The first Thursday of each calendar month of the school year shall be reserved for on-site faculty meetings.
The second Thursday of each calendar month of the school year shall be reserved for exclusive representative meetings.
Third Thursday meetings is a site specific/site driven SBDM choice.
Every effort will be made to limit the length of faculty meetings to one (1) hour.
Whenever possible, the notice of and tentative agenda for any meetings shall be given to teachers involved at least two (2) days prior to the meeting.
The site administrator may schedule additional meetings from those noted above when the administrator concludes that there is a necessity for additional meetings.
The site administrator will excuse teachers from meetings and special assignments for emergency reasons or extenuating circumstances which can be substantiated.
New teachers shall have no more than one (1) additional day of service required for all District-wide meetings in addition to whatever requirements exist for all teachers.
The District commits to attempting to reduce the numbers of extra meetings teachers must attend and agrees to discuss with the union how to achieve that end.
Additional Workdays Required for Specific Job Classifications Within the Bargaining Unit
The service year for social workers shall be 185 days.
The service year for program specialists shall be 190 days.
The service year for psychologists shall be 195 days.
The service year for child welfare and attendance counselors shall be five (5) days beyond the teachers' required days of service.
The service year for secondary librarians shall be ten (10) days beyond the teachers' required days of service.
The service year for department chairpersons, athletic directors and student body activity advisors shall be two (2) workdays beyond the teachers' required days of service.
The service year for counselors will be ten (10) days beyond the teachers' required days of service.
The service year for vocational specialists will be 18.5 days beyond the teachers' required days of service.
The service year for full-time student activities advisors will be ten (10) days beyond the academic teaching year.
It is understood that the scheduling of extra days worked beyond the school year by all the job classifications noted in 5.10.1 through 5.10.8 will be determined by the site administrator or immediate supervisor after conferring with the individuals involved.
Children's Centers
Schedules for holidays and vacation periods shall be established through consultations between the teachers and management. Individual preferences and special circumstances will be given serious consideration by management; however, management reserves the right to make the final decision in the interest of the total program. Any request for vacation shall be acted upon within six (6) working days from the time of the written request and such decision shall be conveyed immediately to the teacher.
16
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
5.11.2	Children's Center teachers shall be granted half of the Board-granted vacation days during the winter holidays in addition to vacation days. The winter holiday schedule shall be established and posted by November 15 of each year.
5.11.2.1	Children's Center teachers may carry over no more than twelve (12) vacation days from year to year, but vacation days lost will be compensated at the teacher's per diem rate.
5.11.3	The service year for Children's Center teachers in subsidized Centers will be 223 days, unless the program year is specified to be the K-12 school year only.
5.11.4	Fee-based Children's Centers that operate for 12 months of the year shall have at least one (1) teacher who shall work the 223-day Contract year.
5.11.4.1	Teachers at fee-based centers who are on a 223-day Contract may be required to work at another site during winter and spring breaks and student vacation periods.
5.11.4.2	All other teachers at fee-based centers shall work the service year reflected in the School Calendar Summary IC-12. When such teachers work days beyond those stipulated in the Calendar, they shall be compensated at their per diem rate and shall accrue all benefits associated with the additional days.
5.11.4.3	According to seniority, Children's Center teachers on the K-12 School Calendar shall have first right of refusal for
additional days required at any center during winter and spring breaks, and student vacation periods. For STRS purposes, a full year of service for Children's Center teachers shall be reported for both 223 days of service and for teachers who work the service year reflected in the School Calendar Summary for K-12.
5.11.5	The service year for Children's Center teachers at Argonaut and American Legion Continuation High Schools shall work the service year reflected in the School Calendar Summary for K-12.
5.12 Adult Education
The provisions of 5.12.1 through 5.12.9.2 shall apply only to teachers who were hired prior to May 1, 1987, and who actually provided services during the period September 1, 1986 through April 30, 1987.
5.12.1	Full-Time Contract Teachers
5.12.1.1	Those who daily instruct three (3) or more groups of students and which groups accumulate to twenty-five (25) hours of instruction per week. The twenty-five (25) hours per week will be the maximum regularly scheduled instruction for these teachers. In addition to the twenty-five (25) hours of instruction scheduled per week, these teachers will be scheduled for five (5) hours of preparation time per week.
5.12.1.2	Those who daily instruct less than three (3) groups of students and which groups accumulate to thirty (30) hours of instruction per week. The thirty (30) hours per week will be the maximum regularly scheduled instruction for these teachers.
5.12.2	Four-Fifths Contract Teachers
5.12.2.1	Those who daily instruct three (3) or more groups of students and which groups accumulate to twenty (20) hours of instruction per week. The twenty (20) hours will be the maximum regularly scheduled instruction per week for these teachers. In addition to the twenty (20) hours of instruction scheduled per week, these teachers will be scheduled for four (4) hours of preparation time per week.
5.12.2.2	Those who daily instruct less than three (3) groups of students and which groups accumulate to twenty-four (24) hours of instruction per week. The twenty-four (24) hours per week will be the maximum regularly scheduled instruction for these teachers.
5.12.3	Three-Fifths Time Contract Teachers
5.12.3.1	Those who daily instruct three (3) or more groups of students and which groups accumulate to fifteen (15) hours per week. The fifteen (15) hours will be the maximum regularly scheduled instruction per week for these
17
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
teachers. In addition to the fifteen (15) hours of instruction scheduled per week, these teachers will be scheduled for three (3) hours of preparation time per week.
5.12.3.2	Those who daily instruct less than three (3) groups of students and which groups accumulate to eighteen (18) hours per week. The eighteen (18) hours will be the maximum regularly scheduled instruction for these teachers.
5.12.3.3	Those persons employed on a contractual basis for three-fifths (3/5) or less time, as of the effective date of this section of the Agreement, shall be subject to termination at the close of each school year and shall not attain permanency. Continued contractual employment, termination, or increases or reductions in hours of these persons shall be based upon program needs, and shall not be effected solely for the purpose of limiting the number of contract certificated Nonmanagement employees assigned to adult education.
5.12.4	Issuance of Contracts to Per Session Teachers
5.12.4.1	Contracts will be issued to per session teachers according to the requirements of Sections 5.12.1 through 5.12.3.3 when teachers are assigned more than eighteen (18) hours of instruction per week which number of per session hours have continued for more than four (4) months.
5.12.5	Teachers employed on a full-time contractual basis may be employed additionally to teach on a per session basis for not more than fifteen (15) hours per week except that this limitation shall not apply to summer school.
5.12.6	Hours of on-site service time shall be the hours of assigned teaching time, plus fifteen (15) minutes before the teacher's first class or preparation period and fifteen (15) minutes after the teacher's last class or preparation period. Except that on service days preceding scheduled holidays, vacations, or Saturdays, the teacher's day shall end at the close of the pupil's day. In addition, teachers are responsible for carrying out special assignments and attending staff meetings in keeping with Sections 5.8 and 5.9 of Article 5, Hours of Employment, of this contract.
5.12.7	It is agreed that the District may change or reduce the hours of per session employees and may terminate the service of such an employee whenever such action is deemed to be in the best interest of the instructional program. Further, it is agreed that the District shall give priority consideration for the granting of more hours to per session teachers before those with less or no District experience.
5.12.7.1	If the terminated employee has reason to believe that termination was effected arbitrarily and capriciously, the employee may appeal the decision to terminate to the assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office. The appeal must be in writing, must state the reasons why the employee feels that the termination was not justified, and must be filed within ten (10) working days from the date that the termination notice was received. The assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office, shall investigate the circumstances surrounding the termination, and shall hold an informal hearing on the matter, at which time the employee is entitled to representation, within ten (10) working days after receipt of the appeal.
5.12.7.2	Within ten (10) working days following the informal hearing, the assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office, shall submit to the superintendent in writing his/her findings, conclusions, and recommendations as to whether the termination action should be sustained or overruled. Copies of this document shall be given to the employee and the Association. The employee then has five (5) working days within which he/she may submit to the superintendent in writing a statement in support of or opposition to the recommendation of the assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office. The superintendent shall then issue a decision, based upon a review of all written documentation presented to him/her. The superintendent’s decision is final, and is not subject to the grievance procedure in this Agreement. Time limitations set forth in this section may be extended by mutual agreement of the employee and the District.
5.12.8	In order to provide good two-way communication, the SCTA Adult Education Representative and the administrator of Adult Education shall meet every two months.
5.12.9	Any teacher currently working on a 230-day "U" teaching assignment shall continue in such assignment unless:
a.	The teacher:
(1)	Resigns,
(2)	Goes on a long-term leave of absence for one (1) year or more,
(3)	Voluntarily transfers,
18
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
5.12.9.1
5.12.9.2
5.12.10
5.12.10.1
5.12.10.1.1
5.12.10.2
5.12.10.2.1
5.12.10.2.2
5.12.10.2.3
5.12.10.2.4
5.12.10.2.5
5.12.10.2.6
5.12.10.2.7
5.13
5.13.1
OR
b.	The superintendent decides prior to March 15 and after consultation with the Association that a program should be reduced pursuant to the following:
(1)	The decision is consistent with the Board's program priorities for adult education, and
(2)	The decision is based on objective and quantifiable criteria such as significant enrollment
decline and/or a legislative reduction in state financing.
Any teacher so affected shall have first preference to reinstatement to the 230-day "U" assignment if the program is reinstituted or if a vacancy occurs in a "U" assignment for which said teacher is qualified.
The effective date of such reduction shall be no earlier than July 1 of the following year.
Hourly Adult Education Teachers
The provisions of 5.12.10.1 through 5.12.10.2.7 shall apply to teachers who are hired for the first time after April 30, 1987.
Adult education assignments are based upon enrollment and attendance. Staff assignment shall increase or decrease according to student enrollment. Every effort shall be made to maintain classes and programs if they are cost effective.
Permanent hourly Adult Education Teachers who have previously served in a discontinued or reduced program or class who have satisfactory evaluations shall have priority consideration for returning to a reopened or new class in that program.
Permanency
Permanency shall be attained only by those unit members who work 18 hours or more per week.
Permanency shall not be attained for more than 30 hours per week.
In order to achieve permanency, a bargaining unit member must serve 75% of the regular school year and 60% of the hours of a full-time assignment for two (2) consecutive years.
Permanency shall be attained only for the average number of hours per week which unit members serve during their two (2) consecutive probationary years.
Unit members who have attained permanency at a level below 30 hours and who subsequently serve for a greater number of hours shall have their permanency Level Increased to the average number of hours served during the three-year period consisting of the current year being served and the immediately preceding two (2) consecutive years.
A unit member's probationary hours shall not be reduced solely to prevent the member from achieving permanent status or to reduce the number of permanent hours achieved.
Employees with permanent status in the K-12 program of the District who become eligible for permanent status in adult education shall at the time of becoming eligible for permanent status in adult education elect as to whether they shall have permanent status in the K-12 program or in the adult education program. Permanent status may not be attained in both programs.
Parent and Preschool Education Teachers
Half-time contract teachers shall be those whose daily assignment accumulates to three (3) hours; said hours shall include two and one-half (2-1/2) hours student contact time plus thirty (30) minutes each day for preparation and conferencing. Such half-time assignments shall also include a two (2) hour weekly parent meeting at the going per session rate.
19
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
5.13.2	Two-thirds (2/3) contract teachers shall be those whose daily assignment accumulates to three (3) hours student contact time plus twenty (20) hours allocated monthly as follows:
a.	Four (4) hours inservice.
b.	Sixteen (16) hours of home visitation, preparation, and such reports as required by the funding agency.
5.13.2.1	Headstart
Two-thirds (2/3) contract teachers shall be those whose daily assignment accumulates to three and one half (31/2) hours student contact time per day for each day for up to 4 days per week plus twenty-four hours allocated monthly as follows:
a.	Four (4) hours inservice.
b.	Twenty (20) hours of home visitation, preparation, and such reports as required by the funding agency.
c.	Such hours from a. and b. will be distributed among the four teaching days unless mutually agreed to be performed on another day by the affected teacher and supervisor.
d.	The teaching days shall be Monday through Thursday as derived from the K-12 181-day calendar.
5.13.3	Full-time contract teachers shall be those whose daily assignment accumulates to six (6) hours per day.
5.13.4	It is agreed that the District may change or reduce the hours of per session employees and may terminate the services of such an employee whenever such action is deemed to be in the best interest of the instructional program. Further, it is agreed that the District shall give priority consideration to granting contracts to per session teachers before those with less or no District experience.
5.13.5	Per session teachers shall be those whose daily hours accumulate to less than fifteen (15) hours per week.
5.13.6	Hours of on-site service time shall be the hours of assignment plus fifteen (15) minutes before and fifteen (15)
minutes after the daily assignment. Except that on service days preceding scheduled holidays, vacations, or Saturdays, the teacher's day shall end at the close of the pupil's day. In addition, teachers are responsible for carrying out special assignments in accordance with Article 5, Section 5.8, and for attending staff meetings on the first Thursday of the month.
20
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 6 - EVALUATION
6.1
6.1.1
6.1.2
6.1.3
6.1.4
6.1.5
6.1.6
6.1.7
6.1.8
6.1.9
6.1.9.1
6.1.9.2
6.1.9.3
6.1.9.4
6.1.9.5
6.1.9.6
6.1.9.7
6.1.9.8
6.1.9.9
6.1.9.10
Principles and Purposes of Professional Evaluation
The ultimate goal of an evaluation system for teachers and employees serving in teacher related positions is the identification, reinforcement and improvement of skills, attitudes, and abilities which will result in better educational opportunities for all students. It is the intent of the parties that timelines apply to all teachers. The purpose of these guidelines is to insure that the evaluation of District professional personnel shall:
Meet the requirements of state law as set forth in Education Code Sections 44500,44660-44664, AB 954 which is included in the amended Education Code 44664 and conform in principle to the guidelines established by the State Board of Education.
Provide for the establishment of standards of expected student achievement at each grade level in each area of study as expressed in the District’s courses of study, guides, and adopted standards aligned instructional materials, and for the evaluation and assessment of certificated employee competency as it reasonably relates to: 1) the engagement and support of all students in learning; 2) the performance of those non-instructional duties and responsibilities, including supervisory and advisory duties, as may be prescribed by the Board and SCTA contract; and 3) the establishment and maintenance of a suitable learning environment within the scope of the employee's responsibilities; 4) understanding and organizing subject matter for student learning; 5) planning instruction and designing learning experiences for all students; and 6) assessing student learning.
Cover all significant aspects of professional service as set forth in the employee's job description.
Be conducted cooperatively with the employee accepting responsibility for self-evaluation and having full knowledge of any administrative evaluation.
Provide for recognition of outstanding service.
Provide for counseling, specific recommendations, and assistance in areas where improvement is needed.
Be conducted continuously and consistently in conformance with established evaluator-evaluatee relationships, written forms, channels of communication, and time requirements.
The evaluator shall take into account working conditions which may have an adverse impact upon the employees' abilities to perform effectively. Such conditions will be identified in the pre-conference or final conference process and shall include, but are not limited to:
Equipment, supplies, facilities
Teacher and student work stations
Problems related to sharing facilities
Preparation time
Assignments outside scope of certification, experience and/or training
Changes of assignment within the school year
Adequate orientation to policies and school practices
Extra-duty assignments
Student transiency and/or learning disparities
Combination classes and/or excessive class size(s)
21
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
6.1.9.11	Number of subj ect preparations
6.1.9.12	Limitations on acquisition and maintenance of instructional materials
6.1.9.13	Access to District’s special services and programs
6.1.9.14	Problems related to scheduling
6.1.10	If the person being evaluated considers any of the listed working conditions to be substandard, that person may
submit a list of items he/she considers to be substandard as an attachment to the evaluation report.
6.1.11	Support
All teachers covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement will be provided the necessary components for professional teaching including the following: an appropriately furnished workstation, access to an outside phone line, instructional materials for all students using district provided curriculum/materials and/or standards aligned resources, copies of content standards or other documents of expected outcomes, necessary safety equipment, and any other specifically required by the teacher’s job.
6.2	Responsibility for Evaluation
6.2.1	The District shall promote and establish a satisfactory climate for evaluation by encouraging and implementing policies which contribute to high staff morale as well as promoting review and refinement of these policies.
6.2.2	The superintendent delegates to members of the executive staff the responsibility for reviewing the evaluations of personnel under their jurisdiction and implements orderly procedures by which appellant members may be heard.
6.2.3	The responsibility for the formal evaluation of bargaining unit members assigned to a specific school or other administrative unit rests with the principal and/or administrator in charge. Such evaluation is to be based upon observation and/or review of the employee's work as specified in the unit member's specification. Observation is to be spaced over a sufficient period of time for adequate sampling of the employee's performance.
6.2.3.1	Other data which may be included in evaluation shall be mutually agreed to in writing by the evaluatee and the evaluator.
6.2.3.2	The principal or administrator in charge is responsible for the final evaluation of the evaluatee; however, input
from department chairpersons, as permitted by their job specifications, is not precluded.
6.2.3.3	All written materials upon which the evaluation is based must be a matter of record and shall be shared with the
evaluatee at the final evaluation conference. The evaluator shall not base evaluation of a certificated employee on any information which was not collected through the established process. Hearsay or anonymous statements shall be excluded from written evaluations.
6.3	Evaluation Procedures
6.3.1	Frequency of evaluation: Evaluation of bargaining unit members shall be conducted on a continuing basis, at least once each school year for all personnel classified as probationary or temporary, or at least every other year for all those who have achieved permanent status, unless they have been surplused or have transferred, in which case they may be evaluated in the first year of their new assignment or at least every five (5) years for those certificated employees qualifying for AB 954 as identified below in 6.3.1(a). Permanent personnel whose social security numbers end with an even number are to be evaluated in school years which end in even numbered years; those whose social security numbers end with an odd number are to be evaluated in school years which end in odd numbered years. Personnel reassigned from one classification to another shall be evaluated at least once each school year for the first three (3) years of service in the new classification, and at least every other year thereafter. An employee who has been evaluated and whose summary rating indicates that performance needs improvement or is unacceptable must be evaluated again the following year.
22
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
(a) Recognition of Teacher Meeting or Exceeding Standards
AB 954 allows for the evaluation and assessment of the performance of each certificated employee.. .at least every five (5) years for personnel with permanent status who have been employed at least ten (10) years with the school district, are highly qualified, as defined in 20 U.S.C. Sec. 7801, and whose previous evaluation rated the employee as meeting or exceeding standards if the evaluator and certificated employee being evaluated agree. The certificated employee or the evaluator may withdraw consent at any time.
Eligibility criteria for AB 954: the teacher is a permanent employee with ten (10) years experience with the district and met or exceeded standards in the previous evaluation. The Highly Qualified Teacher (HQT) criteria will be considered only when applicable to the bargaining unit member’s current assignment. There must be agreement between the principal and employee.
The Parties agree that the five (5) year cycle of AB 954 shall be available for teachers scheduled to be evaluated in 2004-2005 and meet the above-cited criteria. Those teachers will not be evaluated for 20042005 if they meet the above-cited criteria and the evaluator and certificated employee agree.
6.3.1.1	Should an administrator determine that a need exists to evaluate a teacher during a non-designated year, said administrator shall notify the teacher of the proposed evaluation. Such notification shall be in writing stating reason(s) for such decision. However, all provisions of this Article shall apply to the evaluation.
6.3.2	During the course of the evaluation period, mitigating circumstances may arise which require modification of the
process. Such modification shall be determined jointly by the evaluatee and the evaluator. The determination of new evaluation processes shall be arrived at in accordance with this policy.
6.3.2.1	If the mitigating circumstances consist of a change of the principal or administrator in charge following the pre-evaluation conference, but prior to February 10th, the evaluation process may be completed, at the District’s option, by one of the following methods (the methods listed in this provision apply to all certificated staff): (1) the prior evaluator shall complete the process; (2) the new evaluator and the evaluatee shall meet and share all written data compiled by the prior evaluator and reach agreement to continue the evaluation process; or (3) the new evaluator and the evaluatee may, by mutual agreement, commence a new evaluation process by extension of evaluation times subject to section 6.3.3.1. If a principal or administrator in charge is changed following February 10, the evaluation shall be completed by the original evaluator or by a process agreed to by the evaluatee.
6.3.3	Evaluation Conferences, Forms, and Channels
6.3.3.1	Appropriate assessment techniques and other responsibilities applicable to the evaluation shall be determined by
the evaluatee and the evaluator in conference not later than November 1 of each year. In the event illness or other absence of any of the parties involved prevents holding such conference by November 1, the date shall be extended until at least one (1) week following return from such absence. Further, if other unforeseen difficulties arise, the November 1 date may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties. Extensions beyond January 1 are subject to the approval of the superintendent, or his/her designee. The final evaluation may be extended for the same reasons and under the same conditions but not later than May 1.
(a)	The parties have agreed to replace the former teacher evaluation (reference number 40-07112) derived from the “Classification Specification for the Teacher,” revision date 03-15-73 with the Standards-based Evaluation Instrument and Evaluation Process (reference number PSL-F107).
1.	Option 1: Used for all teachers in probationary and temporary status on an annual basis and every other year when in permanent status. The evaluation instrument reflects the six (6) areas of the California Standards of the Teaching Profession and utilizes criteria that are observable, measurable, and applicable in all segments, kindergarten through adult education. (Applicable to those teachers formerly evaluated on the “Classroom Teacher” evaluation instrument.)
Observations for Option 1: There shall be two (2) formal observations for permanent teachers and three (3) or more for probationary and temporary teachers.
23
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
2.	Option 2: Serves as an alternative assessment for teachers wishing to choose the substance of the evaluation criteria for personal professional growth. The HQT criteria will be considered only when applicable to the bargaining unit member’s current assignment. This formative assessment must be focused on student achievement and relate to student learning and instructional strategies.
Eligibility Criteria for Option 2: Qualifying teachers must have five (5) years experience teaching in the district and two (2) consecutive formal evaluations with all performance areas marked as Consistent with Performance Standards or Exceeds Performance Standards. If referring to the previously used evaluation instruments (those used prior to the 2004-2005 school year), all performance standards are rated as l’s and 2’s.
Expectations for Option 2: The teacher will complete a self-selected project that demonstrates professional growth.
3.	Option AB 954: Allows for the evaluation and assessment of the performance of each certificated employee.. .at least every five (5) years for personnel with permanent status who have been employed at least ten (10) years with the school district, are highly qualified, as defined in 20 U.S.C. Sec. 7801, and whose previous evaluation rated the employee as meeting or exceeding standards if the evaluator and certificated employee being evaluated agree. The certificated employee or the evaluator may withdraw consent at any time.
Eligibility criteria for AB 954: The teacher is a permanent employee with ten (10) years experience with the district and met or exceeded standards in the previous evaluation. The HQT criteria will be considered only when applicable to the bargaining unit member’s current assignment. There must be agreement between the principal and employee.
(b)	Pre-Evaluation Conference Form: The evaluator and evaluatee will utilize a form developed by the District and SCTA.
6.3.3.2	A certificated employee shall be responsible for all aspects of the educational program for which the employee is
reasonably accountable.
6.3.3.3	The use of publishers norms established by standardized tests is inappropriate in the evaluation and/or assessment
of certificated employees and shall not be used.
6.3.3.4	If any deficiency of performance is noted during an observation, the evaluator shall within six (6) working days
make specific written recommendations to the evaluatee that shall aid the evaluatee in remediating the deficiency. The written recommendations shall become a part of the evaluation data.
6.3.3.5	The certificated employee's evaluator shall assist in correction of any cited deficiencies. Such action shall include
specific, objective, written recommendations for improvement as well as assistance in meeting such recommendations.
6.3.3.6	Recommendations for improvement should include the following:
a.	Citing those teaching skills and interactional relationships which require improvement.
b.	Prescribing specific practices, techniques, and classroom management skills that will correct the observed problems.
6.4	Evaluation Report Conferences
6.4.1	Preceding the date for submitting the required evaluation report, the evaluator shall meet with each employee subject to evaluation, in conference, at which time the quality of the employee's work shall be discussed, including specific, job-related suggestions for performance improvement. The evaluation criteria and the formal, written report shall be the basis of the discussion.
24
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
6.4.2	A certificated employee shall have the right to initiate written reaction or response to his/her evaluation. Such written response shall become a permanent attachment to the appropriately executed evaluation instrument.
6.5	Evaluation Reports
6.5.1	Evaluation reports of members of the bargaining unit who are subject to evaluation as specified in this section shall be completed and submitted to the designated reviewing official not later than April 1. For those bargaining unit members referenced in 6.3.3.1 (a) whose performance is less than satisfactory the evaluator shall notify the employee, in writing, of such deficiency, and at the same time describe said inadequacy in detail with written prescription for remediation for teachers not meeting Performance Standards in any area. The evaluator shall assist the evaluatee in implementing the prescribed remediation within a reasonable time period prior to completion and submission of the evaluation report and the recommendation for retention or dismissal.
6.5.2	Except as provided in 6.3.2 and 6.3.3.1, failure to meet the April 1 deadline shall negate the administrator's evaluation of the teacher at that school site.
6.6	District level committees shall be formed on an ad hoc basis to serve as the final authority for resolving
disagreements between the evaluator and the evaluatee which may arise over the appropriateness of the evaluation criteria and/or ratings of less than "satisfactory" or, for those teachers referenced in 6.3.3.1 (a), Not Meeting Performance Standards in any area.
6.6.1	The committee shall be composed of two (2) members appointed by the exclusive representative and two (2) appointed by the superintendent or designee. The superintendent will nominate eight (8) members of his/her administrative staff and the Association will choose the chairperson from among the eight (8). The chairperson shall vote only in the event of a tie.
6.6.2	The committee decision shall be in writing and shall set forth reasons for the decision rendered.
6.6.3	At the time of the hearing, the evaluatee and the two members appointed by the exclusive representative shall be
released without loss of pay or leave during the necessary proceedings.
6.7	Teacher Improvement Plans
6.7.1	For those teachers referenced in 6.3.3.1 (a) whose previous summary rating reflects less than a 3, a written plan for improvement shall be developed in concert between the teacher and the evaluator. Such plan should be based on Sections 6.3.3.4, 6.3.3.5, and 6.3.3.6 of this Article.
6.7.2	After a reasonable period of time, but not more than twenty (20) working days after the plan is initiated, the administrator in charge, or administrative designee, shall observe the teacher in various teaching situations. The administrator designee, shall counsel with the evaluatee on observed progress and shall make known in writing to the evaluatee progress observed and improvements still to be achieved.
6.7.3	Release time shall be provided when required by the nature of the program or plan.
6.7.4	When the program incorporates released time or travel for observation of designated teachers at other locations or classes of any kind, such program shall not require costs to the employee unless agreed to by the employee.
6.7.5	When the plan includes peer participation, including the assignment of a mentor teacher by the evaluator, the relationship between the participating teacher and his or her peer shall be confidential. The peer shall not participate in the evaluation of the employee.
6.7.6	For those teachers referenced in 6.3.1 (a), if the fourth (4th) column from the teacher performance areas is checked,
the evaluator must indicate what areas do not meet performance standards. The evaluator and teacher shall develop an improvement plan following the evaluation addressing those areas needing improvement.
25
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
6.8	Evaluation of Substitute Teachers
6.8.1	In order to provide competent personnel it is very important that principals evaluate their substitute teachers. It shall be the responsibility of the Personnel Services Office to provide rating forms for this purpose. A principal need rate a substitute only once unless there is reason to change the rating already on file. If a principal does not want a particular substitute to serve in his/her school, the reasons for such request must be indicated on the evaluation form. A principal shall, when requested by the substitute, be responsible to conference with the substitute within three (3) days of such request.
6.8.2	Substitutes have the right to request an evaluation after three (3) days of employment at a school.
6.8.3	Upon request substitutes have the right to conference with the superintendent or his/her designee regarding their evaluation. During such conferences the substitutes will be provided with written information regarding individual evaluations if they so request.
6.9	Any performance rating or evaluation of per session personnel who are members of the bargaining unit shall be
done with the full knowledge of the evaluatee.
6.10	The evaluator shall be responsible for insuring that all evaluation data, including information and related forms, are handled in such a manner so as to protect their confidentiality.
6.11	Evaluation Forms
Attached and incorporated into this Agreement as Appendix A is an evaluation form incorporating class specifications for each job classification in the bargaining unit agreed to by the parties.
a. Attached and incorporated into this Agreement as part of Appendix A is the Standards-based Evaluation Instrument and Evaluation Process (reference number PSL-F107) which the parties have mutually agreed to replace the former teacher evaluation (reference number 40-07112) derived from the “Classification Specification for the Teacher,” revision date 03-15-73.
6.11.1	These evaluation forms will be attached only to the two (2) executed copies of the contract.
6.11.2	It is understood by the parties that during the term of this Agreement changes will be made to the substance of
these forms only by mutual agreement.
6.11.2.1	The assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office, or his/her designee shall represent the District during any discussions relative to changes noted in 6.11.2 above.
6.12 Parent Complaints
Complaints which cannot be substantiated, or which are withdrawn prior to substantiation as outlined in Board Policy 1312, or which are not sustained by the grievance procedure shall neither be placed in the unit member's personnel file nor utilized in any evaluation or disciplinary action against the unit member.
26
July 1,2004 - June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 7 - ASSIGNMENTS
7.1	An assignment is defined as the classes that a teacher is assigned to teach.
7.1.1	For members of the bargaining unit without classroom duties, an assignment is defined as the specific site(s) to which they are assigned to perform their duties.
7.1.2	An assignment change is a change of grade, class, department, or for those teachers referred to in 7.1.1, a change
in sites without a change in classification.
7.2	All assignments shall be made taking into account credential limitations, major or minor fields of study, training,
previous experience, and consideration of the qualifications of the local staff which are judged to be essential for the effective operation of the school.
a.	The principal and the teachers at each site will collaboratively make track and grade change decisions. If consensus cannot be reached, the principal will make the assignment. Factors to be considered in making track and grade assignments are itemized in Article 7.2. If the application of the factors results in two teachers being equally qualified, District seniority will prevail.
b.	At the option of either party, with sixty (60) days written notice to the other party, the parties will reopen negotiations on Article 7.2a.
7.2.1	In order to assure that students are taught by teachers working within their areas of competence, teachers shall not be assigned outside the scope of their teaching certificate, and whenever possible, their major or minor fields of study without the consent of the teacher involved.
7.2.2	For a K-8 program, any reassignment from a secondary assignment (7-8) to an elementary assignment (K-6); or from an elementary assignment (K-6) to a secondary assignment (7-8) must be with the consent of the teacher involved.
7.3	Requests for voluntary assignment change may be submitted to the administrator in charge at any time prior to
submission of a personnel requisition to the Personnel Services Office.
7.4	All elementary teachers shall be given notice of tentative assignment(s), as defined in this Article, for the
forthcoming year not later than April 30, insofar as they are known at that time. All other teachers shall be given notice of tentative assignment(s), as defined in this Article, for the forthcoming year not later than May 30, insofar as they are known at that time. If requested by the teacher, a meeting shall be held between the teacher and administrator to discuss the new assignment. A list of all tentative staffing assignments within the school or administrative unit for the forthcoming year shall be posted in at least two (2) conspicuous locations in each school or unit by June 1, insofar as they are known at that time. Teachers will be notified in writing as soon as possible of any change of assignment made after the close of school.
7.4.1	A change in assignment shall not be made arbitrarily or capriciously.
7.5	The site administrator shall, upon request, provide assistance to teachers in moving their personal classroom
paraphernalia when the teacher is assigned to another classroom within the administrative unit.
7.6	The District shall assign all newly appointed personnel to their specific positions within that subject area and/or
grade level for which the Board has appointed the teacher. The District shall give notice of assignment to new teachers as soon as practicable.
a.	The teacher and administrator may mutually agree, in writing, to change the assignment if such a change in assignment does not impact the return rights of any unit member to the site or administrative unit.
b.	The administrator may change the assignment in the case of an emergency as defined in Section 2.4 of this Agreement with the concurrence of the SCTA and Employee Relations Office.
27
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
c.	Such a change in assignment shall not be instituted until copies of the written agreement are received by the SCTA and the Employee Relations Office.
d.	There will be no reprisal against any employee for refusing to waive contractual rights.
7.7	The site administrator, or designee, will notify affected teachers before the end of the school year regarding room
assignment changes. Should such decision occur while school is not in session, the affected teacher shall be notified as soon as the proposed changes are known.
7.8	Special Education specialist teachers, nurses, or elementary preparation teachers affected by any decision made
regarding realignment of the relationships of schools or classes in terms of hours or location, shall be given the opportunity to submit a request regarding their new assignment. Within the restriction of program needs, seniority shall be the primary consideration for assignments.
7.8.1	The site administrator will confer with the liaison committee to select the proposed prep specialist’s subject assignments. The assignments are subject to the constraints of available qualified and credentialed personnel.
7.9	Provisions shall be made for teachers and prep specialists who are assigned to more than one (1) school to
minimize travel time and ensure an adequate amount of time for lunch and preparation periods. No prep specialist shall be assigned to more than two (2) schools without the consent of the teacher.
7.10	Secondary teachers shall have no more than three (3) preparations with different class titles at any given time except by agreement in advance between the affected teacher and the site administrator.
7.11	No secondary librarian shall be required to accept those students who are regularly enrolled and have been removed from a normally scheduled class unless the student has a specific assignment except by agreement in advance between the affected librarian and the site administrator or in case of an emergency.
7.12	Nursing assignments shall be made for the following school year by the Health Services Section in conjunction with the Personnel Services Office before the close of the present school year whenever possible.
7.13	The assignment of a split shift shall not be made arbitrarily or capriciously. Split-shift teachers shall be given priority consideration for straight-shift assignments. Management will avoid split-shift assignments whenever possible.
7.14	The administrator shall assign student teachers only after the resident teacher has given approval.
28
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 8 - TRANSFERS
8.1	DEFINITIONS
8.1.1	A VOLUNTARY TRANSFER is one which is initiated upon application of the employee and involves either a change in assignment from one school or administrative unit to another or a change in classification within the bargaining unit.
8.1.2	An INVOLUNTARY TRANSFER is one which is initiated by the administration and involves a change in assignment from one (1) school or administrative unit to another without a change in classification.
8.1.3	For the purposes of this Article, a VACANCY is any new or existing opening among those positions for which a
member of the bargaining unit may be considered for transfer.
8.1.4	SENIORITY, as referred to in this Article, shall be based on years of service to the District and shall apply to all members of the bargaining unit regardless of classification or position held. A year of experience must represent not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the days of required full-time service; although semesters will be added together, even if in separate school years, in computing years of service.
8.1.4.1	In instances where there has been prior certificated service in the District, years of service in the District shall be determined by using the date on which the teacher most recently joined the District, and then backdating the anniversary date by the number of years previously served (based upon cumulative semesters during which the teacher served 75% or more of the time). In no case shall the anniversary date be earlier than the first required day of service in that school year.
8.1.4.2	Certificated service in the children's center shall count toward total District seniority, but the seniority is only applicable in the program where the certificated person is currently employed.
8.1.5	A COMPELLING REASON is defined as the need to meet the District's 1981 Affirmative Action Program, credential and legal requirements, or special qualifications which can be documented.
8.1.6	A TEMPORARY PERSON as referred to in the Application and Placement section of this Article is one who is employed on a temporary certificated contract which includes the master contract entitlements for health and welfare benefits, salary, and sick leave.
8.1.7	A SEVENTY-FIVE PERCENTER as referred to in the Application and Placement section of this Article is one who was employed in a temporary certificated position or who has been serving as a long-term substitute performing all of the duties of a regular teacher for at least 75 percent of the days school was in session in the most recent school year.
8.1.8	A NEW OFFER as referred to in the Application and Placement section of this Article is one who has been offered a certificated contract with the District for the next school year.
8.1.9	A NEW APPLICANT as referred to in the Application and Placement section of this Article is one who is not currently employed in a certificated position in the District but one who applies for a position in the District.
8.1.10	A LONG TERM SUBSTITUTE as referred to in the Application and Placement section of this Article is a substitute who the District anticipates will remain employed for more than 90 consecutive work days and who is so informed by the District at the time of hiring or at the time of change from day-to-day substitute status.
8.1.11	A DAY-TO-DAY SUBSTITUTE as referred to in the Application and Placement section of this Article is a substitute who is hired as needed to fill a certificated position.
8.1.12	IN-DISTRICT PERMANENT PERSONNEL as referred to in the Application and Placement section of this Article are those who have gained tenure in the District; or in the case of application for positions to be filled in the next school year, persons who will gain tenure the beginning of that next school year.
29
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
8.1.13
8.2
8.2.1
8.2.2
8.2.3
8.2.4
8.2.5
8.2.6
8.2.7
8.2.7.1
8.2.8
8.2.9
8.2.10
8.2.11
8.2.12
8.2.13
8.2.13.1
8.2.13.2
IN-DISTRICT PROBATIONARY PERSONNEL as referred to in the Application and Placement section of this Article are those in probationary status except as referred to in 8.1.12.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
No teacher shall be transferred nor denied a transfer request arbitrarily, capriciously or without basis in fact.
Applications for voluntary transfer may be filed whenever a Notice of Vacancy is posted by the District. Application forms for transfer shall be available at each school site or administrative unit.
If an applicant is not selected for a specific position for which he/she applied, school site or administrative unit shall, upon written request, provide the applicant with a written statement of the reasons therefor.
Any teacher may submit an application for transfer at any time directly to the Personnel Services Office without being required to notify or receive approval from the building principal or other administrator in charge.
Application for transfer to any type of position or location shall be made to the Personnel Services Office on forms provided for this purpose. Verification of the receipt of application can be obtained in person from the Personnel Services Office.
If a teacher requests an interview with the Personnel Services Office, or if the District desires an interview, it will be scheduled.
If a teacher desires to be considered for future vacancies a new application for transfer must be filed with the Personnel Services Office as each new vacancy is posted.
The need to meet the affirmative action guidelines does not constitute grounds for denying a request for transfer from a school or administrative unit.
The teacher shall be transferred to a position which is consistent with major(s), minor(s), experience, certification, qualifications, and insofar as possible, with desires and interests of the teacher.
All transfer applicants, upon receipt of the offer of a position shall respond by 4 p.m. of the next business day. Within this time constraint, the person may request information regarding the status of any other position(s) for which he/she applied, and the Personnel Services Office shall comply with such request.
If an applicant fails to accept or respond to a tentative assignment, or when all available means of communications prove unsuccessful in contacting that applicant, the Personnel Services Office may proceed to the other referred applicants.
Any teacher transferred during the times that schools are in regular session shall be provided one (1) non-teaching day prior to the beginning of the new assignment for the purpose of relocation, orientation and lesson planning.
No teacher shall be involuntarily transferred more than once during any one (1) school year.
The District shall identify those schools and administrative units which have ethnically imbalanced staffs, as reflected in the concept that each school site and administrative unit or classification should have no less than one-half (1/2) the percentage of minorities in the total District certificated staff including the representation of one Asian, one Black, and one Hispanic.
Taking into account credential and legal requirements, the Personnel Services Office shall refer for consideration the two most senior minority teachers who have applied and meet the identified ethnic need for a vacancy in any school which is out of compliance with the District's Affirmative Action Program. Such referrals shall be in lieu of the least senior applicants who would have been referred.
It is understood that this Article shall not conflict with the Affirmative Action Guidelines as defined in 8.2.13 and 8.2.13.1.
30
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
8.2.14	Full-time probationary personnel may not apply for a voluntary transfer.
8.2.15	All positions filled by a person on a temporary contract, on a limited term assignment, or long term substitute which are to be continued, shall be declared vacant the last day of the second semester and shall be made a part of the vacancy list for Step 1 placements unless the position is being held for a permanent teacher on leave or a limited term assignment who has return rights.
8.2.15.	1	If the termination date of the limited term assignment is extended during the school year the assigned teacher
shall continue in the position unless there is a need for a surplus teacher to be placed in the position.
8.2.16	No regular position shall be reserved as a limited term assignment in excess of one (1) school year, while a teacher is voluntarily filling another assignment.
8.2.17	Positions involving classifications other than classroom teacher and/or positions which provide additional pay shall be filled as per Step 1 criteria except that posting and placement may occur throughout the year. Any other qualifying position(s), or any new position(s) created by the District or any changes in existing job specifications which would be controlled by this section must be mutually agreed to by the District and the Association. These positions include the following: Counselor, Program Specialist, Vocational Specialist, Department Chairperson, Librarian, Psychologist, Resource Specialist, School Social Worker, Student Activities Advisors, Training Specialist.
8.2.17.	1 In the event that a specific Affirmative Action need is identified as per the Affirmative Action Program for any of the positions posted as per 8.2.17, and there are no in-District applicants who meet that need then the District may refer up to two minority candidates from outside the District for consideration in lieu of the least senior in-District applicants who would have been referred.
8.2.18	In order to provide services for students with limited English proficiency ("LEP students"), positions which an approved school plan defines as requiring specialized Bilingual credential services to LEP students will be filled in the following manner:
8.2.18.1	Prior to Step 1, the new, created or open positions in the District and schools requiring teachers holding Bilingual credentials for the following school year will be identified for posting and made known to SCTA upon its request. The District will determine the type of credential(s) required for each position.
8.2.18.2	All such positions shall be posted with their requirements, and shall be filled in accordance with the procedures of Steps 1 and 2.
8.2.18.3	Teachers with LDS or SB 1969 certification and those in a verifiable continuous training program for a Bilingual or CLAD certificate(s), the length of which training program shall be as approved in the District’s Plan to Remedy, but not require a period of less than two years, and whose continued progress in that training program is documented, shall be considered equal to CLAD/BCLAD credentialed teachers except that among such a group seniority shall prevail.
8.2.19	No teacher may voluntarily transfer more than once each year.
8.2.20	The District and SCTA will collaborate on a teacher recruitment and review process to increase the quality of teacher applicants.
8.3	NOTICES OF VACANCIES
8.3.1	It is the intent of these procedures that every reasonable effort shall be made to provide employees with information regarding the establishment of new positions as well as vacancies in existing positions when time permits. Positions shall be posted for a period of not less than four (4) work days.
8.3.1.1	After internal assignment changes, if any, Vacancies for the ensuing year shall be identified and reported to the Personnel Services Office and SCTA by site/program administrators in sufficient time to meet the posting timelines. Exceptions may be made for extenuating circumstances which can be documented.
31
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
8.3.1.2	To assist in early staffing, any unit member who submits his or her retirement resignation or resignation prior to March 1 for a retirement or resignation of that same year, shall be paid a one-time stipend of $500 upon Board acceptance of the retirement resignation or resignation. Additionally, the District and SCTA agree to the following efforts based on mutual agreement for retirees and resignees:
a.	A program that provides for substituting opportunities at the teacher's last site(s) for the purpose of continuity and in-servicing and provisioning of new teachers.
b.	A program of recognition.
c.	Development of appropriate information regarding STRS, health benefits, and other matters.
d.	Examination of the PARS Program (Public Agency Retirement System) for a possible December 1998 implementation.
8.3.2	All notices of vacancies shall be prepared as soon as possible after vacancies and positions are known. Each notice to be posted in the schools shall contain a date on which it is to be put on bulletin boards, and shall be sent to the schools sufficiently in advance of the posting date so that all schools will be posting the notices on the day received.
8.3.3	Except for surplus teacher placement and contracted teachers unassigned by August 1, no vacancy can be filled as a regular assignment during Steps 1 and 2 until it has been advertised in accordance with established procedures.
8.3.4	A notice of vacancy shall list all objective criteria which shall serve as the basis for selection.
8.3.5	Notices of Vacancies shall be advertised by the Personnel Services Office in the following ways:
8.3.5.1	Notices shall be posted in each school during the time school is in session, shall be posted in each office, and shall be mailed to the designated representative of the bargaining unit. During times when school is not in session, Notices of Vacancies shall be mailed only to those employees who have submitted a written request and who have also provided the Certificated Personnel Services Office with sufficient self-addressed and stamped envelopes.
8.3.5.2	All vacancies shall be announced on the District's Job Line and website where possible. The Job Line messages
shall be updated at least once a week and the website will be updated when possible.
8.3.5.3	By publishing and distributing to all teachers an administrative bulletin which describes and invites applications
for transfer to new positions which result from the opening of a new school or administrative unit.
8.3.5.4	During the school year, by distributing for posting in each school office, District website when possible and
SCTA, the most current list of personnel transactions approved by the Board of Education, and by sending a copy of such to SCTA during summer.
8.3.6	Notices of Vacancies will be numbered in the order of issuance.
8.3.7	Any modification to a Notice of Vacancy shall require a new posting and cancellation of any commitments based
on the previous Notice of Vacancy.
8.3.8	A listing of positions filled in Step IB shall be provided upon request to the SCTA as they are known at the time of the request.
8.4	INVOLUNTARY TRANSFERS (SURPLUS)
8.4.1	The initial identification and notification of surplus personnel will be accomplished by the Personnel Services Office no later than the Friday occurring in the first full week in April, insofar as they are known. Personnel identified for surplusing shall be notified within three (3) days of the time they are identified. Such notification shall consist of written notice mailed to address of record.
32
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
Surplusing may occur for the following reasons:
a.	Over staffing at school sites.
b.	Reduced funding in special programs.
c.	The termination of an LTA position or special funded position for a regular permanent teacher who has no immediate return rights to a position, classification or a designated position.
8.4.2	Before declaring anyone surplus, it shall be determined if there is a volunteer with the proper credential in the area being surplused who is teaching in that area who is willing to accept surplus status.
8.4.2.1	Teachers who are projected to teach in year-round schools may voluntarily declare themselves surplus at that
school for the following school year if the declaration is placed in writing to the site administrator by February 1st. Such persons shall then be treated as all other involuntary surplus persons.
8.4.2.1.1	Teachers who can definitively demonstrate a need for self-surplusing based on criteria developed by the District
and SCTA may declare themselves surplus by February 1st. The self-surplusing and the placement are subject to approval by the District and SCTA. Said teacher shall be placed.
8.4.3	In any elementary school or administrative unit where a surplus exists, the principal or other administrator in charge shall identify the teachers to be declared surplus. Unless there are compelling reasons for doing otherwise, the site administrator shall declare surplus the individual with the least District seniority.
8.4.4	In any secondary school or administrative unit where a surplus exists, the principal or other administrator in charge shall identify the teachers to be declared surplus. Unless there are compelling reasons for doing otherwise, the site administrator shall declare surplus the individual with the least District seniority in the subject area of the position declared surplus.
8.4.4.1	If the teacher who is declared surplus has served in another subject field within the previous five years, or has a
major or minor in another subject field, the teacher may choose to be compared in any of those fields on the basis of District seniority for surplus declaration.
8.4.5	If the site administrator declares surplus an individual other than the one with the least District seniority, the site
administrator shall immediately place in writing the reasons for such decision and transmit them to the Personnel Services Office and to the teacher(s) involved.
8.4.6	In no case shall surplus declaration result in retention of less than one-half (1/2) the percentage of minorities in the total school staff than in the total District certificated staff and the retention of not less than one Black, one Hispanic, and one Asian teacher on the total school staff.
8.4.7	No teacher shall be declared surplus at one school or site for the purpose of achieving the goal of minority representation at another school or site.
8.4.8	Whenever two (2) or more persons have the same seniority ranking, the person to be declared surplus shall be determined by the casting of lots. Such casting of lots will take place in the presence of all persons who have the same seniority ranking and who could be affected by this process.
8.4.9	The Personnel Services Office shall provide written notice to teachers subject to involuntary transfer, stating the nature of the transfer with reason therefor, and informing them of their right to a meeting with the District representative if the teacher so requests.
8.4.10	Within a four-year period, teachers who have been declared surplus from a regular position shall have preference in returning to the school from which they have been surplused, providing they file a special transfer application for any vacancy at that school where they were surplused.
8.4.11	The following procedures shall be used except where in conflict with compelling reasons. However, these provisions do not apply to declaration of surplus staff at a school and an involuntary transfer where the total
33
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
number of District positions has not been reduced. This provision would apply only if the total number of counseling positions have been reduced.
8.4.11.1	When the number of elementary counselor positions is reduced in a non-lay off situation (school closure, consolidation, or overstaffing), the least senior elementary counselor(s) who is/are credentialed and experienced as a classroom teacher will be declared surplus and placed in the surplus teacher pool.
8.4.11.1.1	If the surplus elementary counselor is credentialed and experienced at the secondary level he/she may choose to
be compared on the basis of seniority with secondary counselors.
8.4.11.2	When the number of secondary school counselor positions is reduced in a non-layoff situation (school closure,
consolidation, or overstaffing), the least senior secondary counselor(s) who is/are credentialed and experienced as a classroom teacher will be placed in the surplus teacher pool. The vacancy(ies) created will be filled by the more senior counselor(s) unassigned as a result of the surplus.
8.4.11.2.1	If the surplus secondary counselor is credentialed and experienced at the elementary level he/she may choose to
be compared on the basis of seniority with elementary counselors.
8.4.11.3	When the number of vocational specialist positions is reduced in a non-layoff situation (school closure, consolidation, or overstaffing), the least senior vocational specialist who is credentialed as a counselor and experienced as a counselor shall replace the least senior secondary counselor who has less seniority than the vocational specialist and who is credentialed and experienced as a classroom teacher. This counselor shall then be declared surplus.
8.4.11.4	When the number of psychologist positions is reduced in a non-layoff situation (school closure, consolidation, or overstaffing), the least senior psychologist who is credentialed as a counselor and experienced as a counselor or classroom teacher shall replace, depending on credential and experience, the least senior elementary or secondary counselor who has less seniority than the psychologist and who is credentialed and experienced as a classroom teacher. This counselor shall then be declared surplus.
8.4.11.5	When the number of social worker positions is reduced in a non-layoff situation (school closure, consolidation, or
overstaffing), the least senior person(s) shall be given the opportunity to replace, depending on their credential and experience, the least senior elementary or secondary counselor who has less seniority than the social worker and who is credentialed and experienced as a classroom teacher. This counselor shall then be declared surplus.
8.4.11.6	When the number of child welfare and attendance counselor and/or foster youth counselor positions is reduced in a non-layoff situation (school closure, consolidation, or overstaffing), the least senior person(s) from the above classifications shall be given the opportunity to replace, depending on their credential and experience, the least senior elementary or secondary counselor who has less seniority than the child welfare, and attendance counselor or foster youth counselor and who is credentialed and experienced as a classroom teacher. This counselor shall then be declared surplus.
8.4.11.7	Other non-teaching certificated positions are not to be covered by this section.
8.4.11.8	This section shall not preclude transfers under Section 8.7 et seq. of this Article.
8.5	APPLICATION AND PLACEMENT
8.5.1	Step 1 - Unit Member Priority Period
Step 1 shall begin on Monday of the second week in February and shall conclude on June 30. For Step 1 "qualified applicants” are defined as in-District permanent and surplus personnel. For Step 1, "additional applicants” or "additional teacher applicants” are defined as temporary, seventy-five percenters, new offers, new applicants, and substitutes.
8.5.1.1	If there are four (4) or more qualified applicants, the four (4) most senior shall be referred. One (1) shall be
selected and placed.
8.5.1.2	If there are three (3) qualified applicants, all three (3) shall be referred. One (1) shall be selected and placed.
34
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
8.5.1.3
8.5.1.4
8.5.1.5
8.5.1.6
8.5.1.7
8.5.1.8
8.5.2
8.5.3
8.5.3.1
8.5.3.2
8.5.3.3
If there are only two (2) qualified applicants, both shall be referred, and the District may refer one (1) additional applicant. One (1) shall be selected and placed.
If there is only one (1) qualified applicant, the applicant shall be referred, and the District may refer two (2) additional applicants. One (1) shall be selected and placed.
If there is no qualified applicant, the District may place a temporary, seventy-five percenter, new offer, new applicant, or substitute after interviews by the school site, if possible.
After the beginning of the school year, placement in positions must be made within ten (10) working days after the final posting date of the position. For positions commencing the following school year, selection shall be made within ten (10) working days or as soon as possible after the final posting date.
If all those referred for a position decline the offer for the position leaving no placement possible, then the position will be reposted for outside posting or for Step 1 A.
Selection from among the candidates shall be made by the District/principal or designee(s). The interview panel or designee(s) may include bargaining unit members.
Step 1A - Resulting Positions (Classroom)
Classroom positions that become available or open as a result of in-District permanent classroom teachers accepting positions at other sites/departments, per 8.5.1 will be treated as follows:
a.	After any local assignment changes, the positions will be listed as soon as known.
b.	The District will refer up to three (3) "additional teacher applicants." The school site may make
recommendations for referrals.
c.	The school site shall select from among the three unless the school site requests a posting per Step 1 or Step 1A.
Step IB - Surplus Placement
a.	Step IB shall be during the third week in April It shall not be during spring break. Only surplus personnel per 8.4.1, 8.4.2.1, and 8.4.2.1.1 shall be placed for the following school year during this period.
b.	All surplus personnel shall be contacted by the Personnel Services Office. Each surplus employee shall have the opportunity to select two (2) positions in which he/she is interested and the employee shall be placed in one (1) of the identified positions. Such selections shall occur in the seniority order of the surplus employees if possible. If no position is available for which a surplus teacher qualifies during this period, the surplus teacher will be placed on a priority and seniority basis in the first available position for which he/she qualifies, including those positions which open in Steps 1 and 2. Such positions need not be advertised. Should two or more positions for which such teachers qualify become available at the same time, the teachers shall choose from among the positions on a seniority basis.
Self-surplused personnel per 8.4.2.1.1 shall be placed.
Nonclassroom teachers in indicated positions (classifications) who have no return rights to a prior position shall enjoy the following rights at the end of their special assignment:
a.	Such teacher shall be placed in open classroom positions at targeted schools with identified needs.
b.	Placement will be based on 1) training and experience, 2) seniority and teacher preference, and 3) needs and desires of the schools.
35
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
c.
The parties have currently identified Packard Reading Coach positions and Success for All facilitator positions. The parties will also identify targeted schools per a side letter.
8.5.4 Step 2 - Open Period
Step 2 shall begin on the first day in July and shall continue through the Friday of the first week of February. Candidates may include all qualified in and out of District applicants except probationary employees.
8.5.4.1	During this step, a maximum of four (4) persons from among the qualified applicants for any position shall be referred to the site or unit administrator for selection. One of the referred applicants shall be the one with the greatest seniority among the qualified applicants. If one or more qualified substitutes apply, at least one (1) shall be referred. One of the referred applicants shall be selected and placed within ten (10) working days following the final posting date of the position.
8.5.4.2	If there are less than two (2) qualified applicants, the site administrator may request a relisting.
8.5.4.2.1	The parties intend that long-term substitute teachers assigned authorized, permanent, positions because regular
credentialed teachers are not available for these positions will remain in the assignment until the end of the school year or until the employee is terminated. The position will then be posted for the following year. For the purposes of this provision, long-term substitute means:
a.	employees who are provided a contract indicating their status;
b.	the contract indicates the fringe benefits provided in conformance with this collective bargaining agreement;
c.	the employee is authorized pursuant to law to serve in the position;
d.	the employee may be terminated at any time pursuant to Education Code section 44953 or 44954
The District and SCTA will consult regarding providing special help or support for these teachers.
8.5.4.3	If a clear, open and vacant position is filled during this step by a permanent District teacher or qualified applicant,
the position shall be classified as a regular position.
8.5.4.4	All surplused contracted teachers who do not have an assignment by August 1 may be placed directly. At the
time of such placement, should there be two or more positions for which such teachers qualify, the teachers shall choose from among the positions on a seniority basis.
8.5.4.5	Positions posted after January 31 and filled subsequently shall be designated as limited term assignments and
become available during Step 1.
8.5.4.5.1	Notwithstanding, Children Center teachers may be placed year-round as regular assignments in clear, open, and
vacant positions.
8.5.4.6	Selection from among the candidates shall be made by the District/principal or designee(s). The interview panel
or designee(s) may include bargaining unit members.
8.6	INTRADISTRICT EXCHANGE
8.6.1	Should two (2) or more teachers desire to exchange positions on a temporary basis, said teachers shall be responsible for making all of the arrangements. Such arrangements shall be reduced to writing and shall include the following:
a.	The name of the teacher(s) involved.
b.	The subject areas the teachers are qualified to teach.
36
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
c.	The written approval of the site administrators.
d.	The written approval of the Personnel Services Office.
e.	All arrangements must be completed at least 30 days before the exchange is to occur.
8.6.2	Such an intradistrict exchange shall be limited to a duration of one (1) school year and can be effected only once in four (4) years.
8.7	ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFERS
8.7.1	Transfers necessitated as a result of a substandard performance or other problems encountered by an employee, shall be recommended to the superintendent and Board of Education by the Personnel Services Office, upon the recommendation of staff level instructional administrators. The reasons for any recommended transfer other than for reasons of surplus shall be delineated in writing by the staff level instructional administrators and delivered to the Personnel Services Office which shall provide a copy to the affected teachers. Such personnel shall be transferred into an existing vacancy in which they will be able to perform more effectively.
37
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 9 - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
9.1	Definition:	Absences and Leaves
9.2	Violations
9.3	Short-Term	Leaves of Absence
9.3.1	Attendance	at Professional Meetings
9.3.2	Attendance of Officers and Delegates at Meetings of State and National Educational Organizations
9.3.3	B ereavement Leave
9.3.4	Duty with the Armed Forces Leave
9.3.5	Emergency Leave
9.3.6	Imminent Death Leave
9.3.7	Industrial Accident and	Illness Leave
9.3.8	Jury Duty Leave
9.3.9	Paternity Leave
9.3.10	Short-Term Personal Leave
9.3.11	Quarantine Leave
9.3.12	Religious Observances
9.3.13	Subpoena Leave
9.4	Long-Term Leaves of Absence
9.4.4	Educational Improvement
9.4.5	Foreign Educational Employment Leave
9.4.6	Foreign Teacher Exchange Leave
9.4.7	Military
9.4.8	Parental Leave
9.4.9	Personal Convenience
9.4.10	Public Service
9.5	Sabbatical Leave
9.6	Sick Leave
9.6.1	Employee Illness
9.6.2	Use of Sick Leave for Compelling Personal Importance
9.7	Leaves of Hourly Employees
38
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
9.	LEAVES OF ABSENCE
9.1	Definition: Absences and Leaves
9.1.1	An employee is absent or on leave when not performing duties as assigned by an authorized official of the District. An employee is not considered absent or on leave if officially authorized or directed to perform duties, attend meetings or conferences, or participate in visitations or observations at places other than regularly assigned. Examples of authorized assignments are:
-	Classroom or school visitations
-	Out-of-District travel
-	Attendance at conferences and meetings
-	Assignments within the District such as inservice meetings, textbook selection committees, curriculum meetings, required attention to legal matters, including subpoenas, when acting as an agent of the District.
9.1.2	Such authorized or official assignments are not to be reported as absences.
9.2	Violations: Violations of the rules that follow relative to Leaves of Absence shall be made a matter of record in
the employees personnel file.
9.3	Short-Term Leaves of Absence
9.3.1	Attendance at Professional Meetings
Leaves of absence to attend professional meetings of educational groups may be granted by the superintendent, a member of the executive staff, or a designee. In those instances where the superintendent or designee believes the District should be represented, leave shall be granted with full pay and may or may not involve reimbursement for necessary expenses.
9.3.1.1	Leaves to attend meetings, conferences, or conventions of Associations or societies composed of persons engaged in education may be granted by the superintendent or designee with a salary deduction equal to the minimum day-to-day substitute pay rate. This type of leave is distinguished from those listed above in that they will not involve expense to the District, are solicited by the employee, and do not involve officers requesting absence as defined in 9.3.2. In no case shall leaves of this type be granted during the first or last week of a school semester at the secondary level and the first and last week of school at the elementary level.
9.3.2	Attendance of Officers and Delegates at Meetings of State and National Educational Organizations
9.3.2.1	Any employee who holds office in a recognized state or national organization devoted primarily to the
improvement of public education may be authorized to be absent without loss of pay in order to perform the necessary duties of the office, provided no other expense to the District shall be involved, as follows:
a.	A maximum of ten (10) days for the office of president;
b.	A maximum of five (5) days for the office of vice president, secretary, treasurer, or member of the Board of directors.
9.3.3	Bereavement Leave
Four (4) days, or five (5) days if out-of-state travel or travel of 250 miles or more is required, on full pay shall be granted to each member of the bargaining unit, except those employed on an hourly basis, in the event of the death of each and every member of the immediate family. If out-of-state travel or travel in excess of 250 miles is required, the employee shall indicate on the Employee Absence Report form the city and state to which such travel was required.
39
July 1,2004 - June 30, 2007
9.3.3.1	The immediate family is defined to include spouse, children, parents, grandparents, sisters, brothers, parents-in-law, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law, sisters-in-law, brothers-in-law, grandparents-in-law, foster children, step-children, adopted children, foster parents, legal guardians, grandchildren, aunts, and uncles of the employee or employee's spouse, or any other relative living in the immediate household of the employee, or any person serving in locus parentis.
9.3.4	Duty with the Armed Forces Leave
In accordance with the provisions of the Military and Veterans' Code of the State of California, a temporary leave of absence shall be granted to any member of the bargaining unit, except one employed on an hourly basis, who is a member of the Reserve Corps of the United States or of the National Guard or Naval Militia, for a period not to exceed 180 calendar days during any one fiscal year. Any such employee who has been employed by the school District not less than one year or who has a combination of school District service and recognized military service of not less than one year, immediately prior to the day on which the absence begins, shall be entitled to receive full school District salary or compensation as such employee for the first 30 calendar days of such absence; provided, however, such salary or compensation is limited to only 30 calendar days of pay for military leave of absence during any one fiscal year.
9.3.4.1	It shall be the responsibility of such employee to arrange for such duty during school vacation periods wherever possible. However, in the event this is impossible, a request for leave shall be made prior to making any requests for military orders.
9.3.5	Emergency Leave
A member of the bargaining unit except one employed on an hourly basis shall be granted emergency absence with full pay under the following specific provisions:
a.	An emergency absence shall be granted for sudden or unexpected illness or injury of a member of the immediate family, or in case of necessary surgery for a member of the immediate family.
b.	The extent of emergency absence granted under this provision shall be no less than one-half (1/2) workday, or more than three (3) workdays during any one (1) school year and such absence grant is not cumulative from year to year.
c.	Necessary emergency absence, as per these regulations, shall be reported as soon as possible on the Employee Absence Report form. The employee shall explain the reason for the emergency on the reverse side of the form.
9.3.6	Imminent Death Leave
Three (3) days at full pay shall be granted to each member of the bargaining unit except one employed on an hourly basis, in case of a serious illness or accident, with death imminent, of each and every member of the immediate family. In the event that death does not occur, the necessity for this type of absence shall be verified by a written and signed statement of the attending physician, specifically stating that death was imminent. The immediate family is defined in 9.3.3 above.
9.3.6.1	A maximum of two (2) days leave of absence with a salary deduction equal to the minimum day-to-day substitute pay rate shall be granted to members of the bargaining unit, except those employed on an hourly basis, in addition to each leave for imminent death as defined in the above paragraph, provided the days are necessary for travel or the settlement of legal and/or family problems in connection with such leaves. The employee has the option to avoid salary loss by using sick leave in those instances where it is a matter of compelling personal importance.
9.3.7	Industrial Accident and Illness Leave
The rules and regulations governing industrial accident and illness leaves of absence are as follows:
9.3.7.1	All members of the bargaining unit shall be granted industrial accident or illness leave of absence at full regular salary for each such accident or illness provided that neither the number of days for one (1) leave nor the total number of days allowed in one (1) school year for more than one (1) such leave exceeds a total of sixty (60) days
40
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
on which the employee is normally required to render service. Such employees shall be eligible for such leave on and after the first day of required service.
9.3.7.2	Industrial accident or illness is defined as illness or injury which is supported by a doctor's certificate and which qualifies under State Workers' Compensation Insurance as being work connected.
9.3.7.3	Industrial accident or illness leave shall commence on the first day of absence, shall be reduced by one (1) day for
each day of authorized absence regardless of any temporary disability award, and shall not be accumulated from year to year.
9.3.7.4	Upon the termination of such leave of absence, the employee shall be entitled to regular sick leave benefits
provided that if the employee continues to receive temporary disability indemnity, he/she may elect to take only as much of accumulated sick leave which, when added to temporary disability indemnity, will result in a payment of not more than full salary. In such cases, for each day of absence the employee's accumulated sick leave credits shall be reduced only by the amount necessary to provide a full day's wage or salary when added to temporary disability benefits.
9.3.7.5	During any paid leave of absence, the District shall issue the employee appropriate warrants for the payment of not more than full salary and shall deduct normal retirement and other authorized contributions.
9.3.7.6	Should any absence occur which is later identified as an industrial accident illness, any sick leave days used in
connection with said illness or accident shall be fully reinstated.
9.3.7.7	As of July 1, 1978, the District will implement a self-insured workers' compensation program and become a
legally uninsured public entity.
9.3.7.8	Compensation benefits under the self-insured program will be no less than those currently covered under the State
Compensation Insurance Fund.
9.3.7.9	Annually, as soon as feasible after December 31, the workers' compensation reserve will be reviewed by the
administration, with the participation of the exclusive representative of the teacher's bargaining unit, to ascertain that there are sufficient funds to pay all known workers’ compensation losses and that such funds shall be fully reserved. Sufficient funds (75% of the amount of known losses as of July 1, annually) shall also be reserved for the incurred, but not reported, losses. This total reserve shall be restricted.
9.3.7.10	The District will establish a loss control committee consisting of equal representation from District management and the teachers' bargaining unit to function as a consultation committee regarding the loss control program of the District as relates to the safety of all District Employees. This committee will be at the call of the director of Risk Management.
9.3.8	Jury Duty Leave
A member of the bargaining unit, except one employed on an hourly basis, shall be granted a leave for serving on a jury on a case before a court of law. The District shall remunerate employees the difference between regular earnings and the jury duty pay.
9.3.9	Paternity Leave
Leave shall be granted to a father at full pay to be present at the birth of his child for not more than one (1) full day unless a physician verifies that his presence for a longer period is necessary, in which case the employee shall be eligible for emergency leave as provided in Section 9.3.5.
9.3.10	Short-Term Personal Leave
Short-term personal leaves may be granted for the personal convenience of the employee at any time, subject to full salary deduction and to the following conditions:
9.3.10.1	Short-term personal leaves shall be of the shortest duration necessary to accomplish the desired objective but not
less than one-half (1/2) day, and except in cases of emergency shall not exceed a total of ten (10) days in any fiscal year.
41
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
9.3.10.2
Short-term personal leaves shall be granted only in cases where it can be demonstrated the need for such absence cannot be fulfilled outside of regular duty hours.
9.3.10.3	Short-term personal leaves must have the recommendation of the employee's principal or other administrator in charge who shall verify that the absence will not seriously affect the program.
9.3.10.4	Short-term personal leaves shall not be granted for any of the following reasons: (a) to engage in outside remunerative business or employment; (b) to attend or participate in functions or activities which are solely for the employee's pleasure or amusement; (c) to extend holiday or vacation periods for personal convenience or pleasure except if agreed to by the site administrator that such leave will not be detrimental to the program; (d) to accompany a spouse on a trip when such travel is not otherwise authorized by these rules except if agreed to by the site administrator that such leave will not be detrimental to the program; (e) to engage in work stoppage.
9.3.11	Quarantine Leave
A member of the bargaining unit, except those employees on an hourly basis, absent from work due to quarantine enforced by public health authorities but who is not personally sick during such quarantine period shall be granted leave with full pay, and such absence shall not be charged against accumulated or current sick leave credit. However, if such employee is personally sick and is also under medical quarantine, such days of absence shall be counted against accumulated and current sick leave earnings credited to such employee. Also, if illness of such employee develops after quarantine restrictions have been established, such illness absence shall be charged against accumulated or current sick leave credit. A statement from a qualified physician and/or the public health authorities relative to the quarantine restrictions involving an employee shall be required in all cases of enforced quarantine.
9.3.12	Religious Observances
Leaves shall be granted for not more than three (3) days in any school year for the observance of religious holidays with a salary deduction equal to the minimum day-to-day substitute pay rate. The employee has the option to avoid salary loss by charging such absence to sick leave in those instances where it is a matter of compelling personal importance.
9.3.13	Subpoena Leave
Leaves shall be granted for subpoenas in hearings before judges or in cases before courts of law, with a salary deduction equal to the minimum day-to-day substitute pay rate, in those instances where the employee is not acting as an agent of the District. The employee has the option to avoid salary loss by charging such absence to sick leave in those instances where it is a matter of compelling personal importance.
9.4	Long-Term Leaves of Absence
9.4.1	Applications for long-term leaves of absence must be made on forms provided by the Personnel Services Office, and are subject to approval by the Board of Education. No member of the bargaining unit shall be granted more than four (4) continuous semesters of long-term leaves of absence for any reason in the eight-year period commencing with the beginning day of the first long-term leave.
9.4.2	During unpaid long-term leaves of absence, the District will not pay for group health, life, and accident insurance. However, the employee may make arrangements with the District insurance office to continue coverage by making direct payment of premiums except that employees whose leave commences following the last day of the school year and before the first day of the ensuing school year shall be covered by fully paid health, dental, life insurance, and vision care as provided in Section 13.3 until September 30 of the ensuing school year.
9.4.3	Members of the bargaining unit granted long-term leaves of absence must give written notice no less than thirty (30) days before the expiration date of the leave regarding whether or not they intend to return.
42
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
9.4.4	Educational Improvement
9.4.4.1	A member of the bargaining unit classified as permanent may, at the discretion of the Board, be granted a leave of
absence by the Board, without pay, for the purpose of educational improvement and advancement, for not less than one (1) semester, nor more than twelve (12) months, provided that such leave shall not extend beyond the end of the school year in which the request is made, and provided further, that leaves of absence for educational improvement may be extended for a total of not more than four (4) semesters (or two years) in cases where a teacher is taking courses for advancement if the completion of such would take longer time and where the advantage will be to the school District. If the leave is granted for a second year, the assistant superintendent, at his/her discretion, may transfer the employee to an unassigned status.
9.4.5	Foreign Educational Employment Leave
9.4.5.1	A member of the bargaining unit classified as permanent, upon the recommendation of the superintendent, may be
granted a leave of absence without pay for not less than one (1) full school year, nor more than two (2) years, for the purpose of accepting full-time foreign educational employment, provided that such employee shall be transferred to an unassigned status upon the commencement of such leave, and provided further, that applications for such leave are received as early as possible, but not later than May 1 of any year.
9.4.6	Foreign Teacher Exchange Leave
9.4.6.1	A member of the bargaining unit classified as permanent, upon the recommendation of the superintendent, may be granted a leave of absence in keeping with the provisions of the International Educational Exchange Program.
9.4.7	Military
Any member of the bargaining unit except those employed on an hourly basis who enlists, — is drafted, into one of the recognized military forces of the United States or recalled to active duty shall be granted a leave of absence without pay for such military service. The rights, privileges, benefits, and obligations of such employees shall be governed by the appropriate provisions of the Education Code and the Military and Veterans' Code.
9.4.8	Parental Leave
9.4.8.1	Parental leave is available to members of the bargaining unit except those employed on an hourly basis. Parental leave guarantees continued employment status without pay, except for the sick leave benefits described below. In addition to childbearing, infant care duties subsequent to childbirth and adoption constitute valid reasons for taking a leave under these procedures. While on parental leave, the employee's position shall be held for him/her subject only to regulations involving transfers because of surplus positions or reduction in force.
9.4.8.2	Within fifteen (15) days prior to the date the parental leave is desired, the employee shall file in the Personnel
Services Office an application form which shall specify the beginning and ending dates of requested leave. If the requested leave is for pregnancy, the application form shall be accompanied by a written statement by the employee's physician specifying: 1) The expected date of birth, 2) the length of time the physician believes she can continue working without endangering her own health and safety, and 3) the approximate length of time the physician believes she will be incapacitated related to the birth.
9.4.8.3	Parental leave may be granted for up to the balance of a school year and may be extended up to a maximum of
four (4) semesters.
9.4.8.4	During the parental leave, any illness for which accumulated sick leave could be used under District rules and
regulations will be paid upon proper application and certification by a physician.
9.4.8.5	In case of terminated pregnancy, an employee on parental leave may return to service if a position for which she
is qualified is open, and upon the written statement of a physician that such employee is physically able to perform normal duties. When the employee's original position becomes available at the end of the specified leave period, the employee shall then have the right to return to that position.
43
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
9.4.9	Personal Convenience
Long-term leaves may be granted by the Board of Education upon the recommendation of the superintendent for the personal convenience of members of the bargaining unit except those employed on an hourly basis who have completed not less than three (3) years of service in this District, without pay, subject to the following conditions:
a.	Personal convenience leaves shall not be granted for less than the remainder of a semester nor more than two (2) semesters.
b.	Personal convenience leaves shall be granted to permit an employee to accept other employment under the following conditions:
(1)	The superintendent or designee believes such employment would be in the best interest of the District for the employee to do so, and
(2)	the other employment is not similar in nature to the employee's current position.
9.4.10	Public Service
9.4.10.1	A member of the bargaining unit classified as permanent may be granted a leave of absence without pay for public service, which includes election to public office which requires full-time service as well as Peace Corps and Vista Service. Such a leave shall be granted for one (1) school year, with the provision that it will be extended for a second year if the employee continues in such service. Wherever possible, the employee will be transferred to an unassigned status upon commencement of the leave. Year-for-year salary schedule credit will be granted if the experience is properly verified to be primarily in a job classification similar to that to which the employee returns.
9.4.10.2	The provisions of Section 44967 of the Education Code shall govern leaves of absence for employees elected to
the legislature.
9.5	Sabbatical Leave
9.5.1	Sabbatical leave may be granted by the Board of Education upon the recommendation of the superintendent for the purposes of advanced study. In order to qualify, a member of the bargaining unit, except one (1) employed on an hourly basis, must have served in this District successfully for no less than seven (7) consecutive years. Leaves of any extended nature granted by the Board of Education, other than sabbatical leaves, shall not be considered a break in continuity of service in the determination of eligibility for subsequent sabbatical leaves.
9.5.2	Sabbatical leaves shall be granted for not less than a full school semester nor longer than a full school year. Two (2) such leaves of one (1) semester each may be taken in separate periods, provided both are commenced and completed within a three-year period. In such cases, service intervening between the two (2) periods shall comprise a part of the service required for a subsequent sabbatical leave.
9.5.3	No sabbatical leave may commence during a semester, and return from such leave must always coincide with the beginning of a semester.
9.5.4	The application for a sabbatical leave shall be filed with the assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office, on forms provided for this purpose. The application shall include the following:
9.5.4.1	A statement of the length and purposes of the leave and a description of the applicant's plans for fulfilling these purposes;
9.5.4.2	A statement which outlines the manner in which the applicant believes the leave will result in benefit to the
students of the District;
9.5.4.3	The applicant's plans for District service upon return from leave;
9.5.4.4	If for travel, the itinerary and expected outcome;
44
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
9.5.4.5	If for the purpose of independent study or research, a certification by a member of the faculty of an accredited
four-year college or university that the work contemplated is equivalent in effort and content to twelve (12) upper division or eight (8) graduate semester units per semester.
9.5.5	If the applicant is qualified and the application fulfills the requirements listed above, the assistant superintendent,
Personnel Services Office, shall submit it to the District’s Certificated Professional Improvement Committee, which is responsible for ranking applications received on the basis of the following criteria:
a.	Contribution to the needs of the students and schools of the District (preferential consideration shall be given to those who wish to pursue formal programs of advanced study);
b.	Likelihood of continued service beyond the minimum of two (2) years;
c.	Length of service to the District;
d.	History of leaves granted to the applicant.
9.5.6	No sabbatical leaves shall be granted to applicants whose overall evaluation is below standards.
9.5.7	Based upon the ranking described in 9.5.5, and the limitations outlined in paragraphs 9.5.6 and 9.5.8, the assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office, shall present the names of the successful applicants to the superintendent for his/her approval and recommendation to the Board of Education. If any applicant granted a leave by the Board later cancels it, the next ranking applicant shall be recommended.
9.5.8	Not more than one percent (1%) of the total certificated staff shall be on sabbatical leave at any one time.
9.5.9	Following the granting of a sabbatical leave by the Board, a contract of agreement shall be completed, giving all
essential details such as effective beginning and terminating dates, number of semester units of credit to be earned or other purposes to be fulfilled, name of institution where work is to be done, if any, salary and method of payment, agreement to serve the District upon return for a period which is equal to twice the period of the leave, agreement to notify the District of intentions regarding returning not later than thirty (30) days prior to termination of the leave, agreement to submit required reports upon return as required herein, and agreement to refund sabbatical salary as prescribed herein if conditions of the leave are not fulfilled. The signing of such a contract shall be in lieu of furnishing a bond.
9.5.10	Payment of salary while on sabbatical leave shall be made at the end of each calendar month while the leave is in effect, less any mandatory or employee-authorized deductions. Persons compensated on the "delayed" payment plan shall continue to be paid on such plan while on leave. If illness, injury, or death prevents fulfillment of the leave by the employee, the proportionate part of the salary not earned shall be returned in the same manner as in the case of an employee on full-time service. If an employee does not serve the District after return for a period which is equal to twice the period of the leave, he/she shall refund to the District an amount which bears the same proportion to the total compensation received while on leave as the amount of time which was not served bears to the total amount of time agreed upon.
9.5.10.1	Members of the bargaining unit who are granted sabbatical leaves will receive the difference between their contract salaries and the amount specified for Class C, Step 2.
9.5.10.2	District contributions for all fringe benefits shall continue for the duration of such leave at the same level as for all members on paid-leave status.
9.5.10.3	After the initial approval of an application for sabbatical leave, the Personnel Services Office shall provide full information regarding the compensation which will be paid to the applicant while on leave.
9.5.10.4	The applicant shall have five (5) working days upon receipt of such financial information to inform the Personnel Services Office of intent to accept or refuse the leave before final approval of the Board is obtained.
9.5.10.5	Refusal to accept such leave shall not be the basis of denial of subsequent applications submitted by the employee for sabbatical leaves.
45
July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2007
9.5.11
9.5.12
9.5.13
9.5.13.1
9.5.13.2
9.5.13.3
9.5.13.4
9.5.14
9.5.15
9.5.16
9.6
9.6.1
9.6.1.1
Time spent on sabbatical leave shall count toward earned salary increments in the same manner as regular service. Any special grants or salary increases allowed all regularly certificated staff members while an employee is on sabbatical leave shall be allowed such employee upon return.
At the expiration of the sabbatical leave the employee, unless agreed otherwise, or unless the particular position shall have been eliminated, shall be reinstated in the position held at the time such sabbatical leave was entered upon.
Upon return from sabbatical leave, the employee shall file with the assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office, verification of fulfillment of the purposes of the leave, as follows:
Transcripts showing completion of twelve (12) upper division or eight (8) graduate semester units of credit earned per semester at accredited four-year colleges or universities, if the purpose of the leave was for study at such institutions.
A letter of certification by a member of the faculty of an accredited four-year college or university describing the nature of the work completed and verifying that it was equivalent in effort and content to the units in 9.5.13.1 above, if the leave was for independent study or research.
A typed report of not less than 1500 words describing activities and benefits derived while on leave, if the leave was for travel.
The superintendent’s designee may verify that the purposes of the leave were fulfilled or, if in doubt, shall refer the verification received to the District Certificated Professional Improvement Committee for a recommendation. If it is concluded that the purposes were not fulfilled, the employee may appeal to the Certificated Professional Improvement Committee by appearing before it in person. If the appeal is not sustained, the employee shall reimburse the District for the salary received while on leave or such part thereof as the committee may recommend, subject to review and approval by the superintendent.
If an employee on sabbatical leave suffers serious illness or injury which a qualified physician attests would prevent fulfillment of the purposes of the leave, he/she shall notify the District of this fact immediately. If the leave must be abandoned, the employee may return to District service as soon as a position for which he/she is qualified becomes available, and repayment of sabbatical salary shall be made as described herein. If the employee desires and a physician so recommends, the employee shall be granted a health leave of absence for the length of time recommended by the physician. At the conclusion of the health leave of absence, the employee may continue the sabbatical leave or return to service.
There shall be no restrictions placed upon the activities of an employee while on sabbatical leave so long as the purposes of the leave are fulfilled. Time spent on sabbatical leave shall count as regular District service in the determination of seniority, accumulation of sick leave credits, and eligibility for other fringe benefits.
In all matters not included in these regulations, the California Education Code shall govern sabbatical leave for this District, and all amendments to such code shall automatically affect these rules and regulations.
Sick Leave
Employee Illness
Ten (10) days of sick leave at full pay shall be accrued to each member of the bargaining unit annually for personal illness or injury at any time during a school year except that persons employed under contract in extended-year programs shall earn sick leave at the rate of one (1) day for each full calendar month of service. A full month of service shall be defined as no less than 75 percent (75%) of the required working days of any calendar month for an employee.
a.	The District will continue to give full force and effect to the sick leave entitlement set forth in Article 9 of the collective bargaining agreement between the Parties, although the internal reporting and accrual of such time will be described, calculated and maintained only in “hours” instead of “days.”
b.	The accrual of sick leave in “hours” will be converted to “days” when reported to STRS, if required by STRS.
46
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
c.	The District’s internal conversion of sick leave reporting and accrual from “days” to “hours” does not adversely affect the sick leave reporting or accrual of any SCTA unit member. For example, the standard for one-half day sick leave for a six-hour employee will continue to be three hours, even though the actual time of the sick leave could be slightly more or less than three hours, depending on the employee’s schedule.
d.	SCTA unit members shall be able to continue to utilize sick leave in one hour increments.
e.	Schools and departments can continue to utilize local practices to cover for employees without sick leave deduction(s) who are absent short durations of time.
9.6.1.2	Sick leave up to the maximum eamable within any given school year need not be earned by an employee before it is used.
9.6.1.3	In case any regular employee resigns or otherwise leaves the service of the school District, after having used more sick leave days than may have been earned for any current year at the rate of one (1) day per calendar month, as defined above, plus any prior year accumulations, a deduction shall be made in the salary or wages which may be due for each day of sick leave used and not earned. In case no salary or wages are still due at time of termination of service, the employee shall be properly billed for repayment to the District of pay received for unearned sick leave days that have been used.
9.6.1.4	Any unused portion of sick leave shall be accumulated without limit.
9.6.1.5	A member of the bargaining unit, while on unpaid leave of absence granted by the Board of Education, shall maintain any sick leave credits which were accumulated prior to such leave but shall not accumulate any additional sick leave credit during the period of such leave.
9.6.1.6	In case an employee severs official connection with the District and is reemployed at a later date, all unused sick leave credits on file at the close of the prior employment period shall be reinstated provided, however, that reemployment must occur within thirty-nine (39) months after the date ending the prior employment if such sick leave credits are to be reinstated.
9.6.1.7	For personal illness absence of any member of the bargaining unit exceeding ten (10) consecutive workdays, a
physician’s statement verifying the illness shall be provided by the employee in addition to the regular monthly absence report. For extended illness absence, a physician's written statement relative to necessity for continued absence is required. This requirement may be waived by the assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office, on his own volition or upon the recommendation of the employee's immediate supervisor.
9.6.1.8	Nothing shall be deemed to prevent the superintendent or designee from requiring a doctor's verification as to the employee's claimed illness in any situation in which there is reasonable cause to believe that no valid grounds exist for the employee's claim of sick leave. If any employee's immediate supervisor has reasonable cause to believe that an employee has abused sick leave privileges, the supervisor shall confer with the employee giving every opportunity to establish that illness had occurred. Following such conference, if the administrative supervisor feels that sick leave privileges have been abused, such reasons shall be communicated to the employee in writing before a doctor's verification may be required.
9.6.1.9	After all earned sick leave days at full pay are used and illness absence continues, a member of the bargaining unit, except one employed on an hourly basis, shall receive the difference between contract daily rate and the amount paid a day-to-day substitute at the current minimum substitute rate for a period not to exceed 100 required service days. The 100 required service days period is exclusive of the earned sick leave days at full pay.
9.6.1.10	Absences for reasons of health for less than three (3) months are considered day-to-day illness absences, and replacement personnel, when authorized, are employed on a day-to-day substitute basis. When it is anticipated that absences related to health will extend for a period of from three (3) months to a full year, a regular employee of the District shall contact the Personnel Services Office to arrange for a formal, Board-granted health leave of absence. Such leaves may be extended beyond one year at the discretion of the Board. Since formal, Board-granted health leaves of absence are for specified periods of time, authorized replacement personnel, whenever possible, will be employed on a long-term substitute contractual basis. Health leaves of absence will be granted only upon the written recommendation of a physician and shall be subject to the approval of the
47
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
	superintendent. A physician's written statement that the employee is capable of resuming a full-time service is also necessary upon return. All benefits and provisions related to personal illness absence as described in these regulations are applicable both to day-to-day illness absences and to formal health leaves of absence.
9.6.1.11	Nothing contained in these sick leave regulations shall be deemed in conflict with the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Insurance and Safety Laws.
9.6.1.12	All members of the bargaining unit compensated on an hourly basis shall earn one (1) hour of sick leave credit for each eighteen (18) hours of per session or Adult Education Hourly service. Personnel who are employed on a regular contract basis may not use such sick leave credits for any purpose other than for absences from per session service; however, if a per session employee is assigned contract status, the per session sick leave credits so accumulated shall be available for his/her use as a contract employee.
9.6.2	Use of Sick Leave for Compelling Personal Importance
9.6.2.1	Sick leave, not to exceed nine (9) days per year may, at the employee's election, be used for any of the following reasons of compelling importance. Prior approval shall not be required except to give as much notice as possible to the employee's principal or other administrator in charge so that a substitute may be obtained.
9.6.2.1.1	Death, accident, or illness involving the employee's immediate family, other relatives, or close friends; accident involving the employee's personal property or the personal property of the immediate family, other relatives, or close friends. These days are in addition to those provided for bereavement, imminent death, or emergency.
9.6.2.1.2	Inability to get to the employee's assigned place of duty because of circumstances beyond control. Not less than one-half (1/2) day of leave may be used for this purpose except that not less than one (1) full day of leave may be used for this purpose in those instances where prior notification is not given.
9.6.2.1.3	Appearance in any court or before any administrative tribunal as a litigant, party or witness under subpoena or any order made with jurisdiction, except when acting as an agent for the District.
9.6.2.1.4	To attend religious observances or weddings, ceremonies, or traditional observances honoring the employee or members of the employee's immediate family.
9.6.2.1.5	To attend to legal or business matters which are of compelling personal importance.
9.6.2.1.6	To take examinations related to advanced training which cannot be scheduled during off-duty hours (in such cases the employee shall attach to the employee's absence report satisfactory written evidence of the requirement).
9.6.2.2	The following are not considered reasons of compelling personal importance: attendance at or participation in functions which are primarily for the employee's amusement, pleasure, personal convenience; the extension of holidays or vacation periods; accompanying a spouse on a trip when such travel is not otherwise authorized by these rules; seeking or engaging in other employment; engaging in a strike demonstration, picketing, lobbying, rally, march, campaign meeting, or any other activities relating to work stoppage or political campaigning.
9.6.2.3	The employee's election to use sick leave credits for any of the purposes allowable shall be indicated on the Employee Absence Report form which shall be attached to the payroll section's copy of the Monthly Absence Report. The employee shall check on the Employee Absence Report form the reason(s) for use of sick leave credits for reasons of compelling personal importance.
9.7	Those employed on an hourly basis for at least one semester for not less than ten (10) hours per week, and personnel under contract with the District, excluding summer-session per session personnel, shall enjoy the following leave provisions:
9.7.1	Bereavement Leave
9.7.1.1	Hourly employees shall be entitled to bereavement leave with pay from all assignments during a four (4) day period for each event of death in the immediate family as defined in 9.3.3.1. If out-of-state travel, or travel in excess of 250 miles is required, the bereavement leave period will span five (5) days beginning with one (1) day after death.
48
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
9.7.2	Emergency Leave
9.7.2.1	An emergency absence shall be granted with full pay for sudden or unexpected illness or injury of a member of the immediate family, or in case of necessary surgery for a member of the immediate family.
9.7.2.2	The extent of emergency absence granted under this provision shall be no less than one (1) hour of assignment, or
more than the hourly assignments for three (3) consecutive workdays during any one (1) school year and such leave is non-accumulative.
9.7.2.3	Necessary emergency absence, as per these regulations, shall be reported as soon as possible on the Employee
Absence Report form. The employee shall explain the reason for the emergency on the reverse side of the form.
9.7.3	Imminent Death Leave
9.7.3.1	Three (3) days at full pay shall be granted to per session employees as defined in Section 7 of this Article, in case of a serious illness or accident with death imminent, of each and every member of the immediate family. In the event that death does not occur, the necessity for this type of absence shall be verified by a written and signed statement of the attending physician, specifically stating that death was imminent. The immediate family is defined in 9.3.3.1 above.
9.7.3.2	A maximum of two (2) consecutive workdays leave of absence without pay, in addition to each leave for
imminent death as defined in the above paragraph, provided the days are necessary for travel or the settlement of legal and/or family problems in connection with such leaves. The employee has the option to avoid salary loss by using such leave in those instances where it is a matter of compelling personal importance.
9.7.4	Jury Duty Leave
A member of the bargaining unit employed on an hourly basis shall be granted leave for serving on a jury on a case before a court of law. The District shall remunerate the difference between regular earnings and the jury duty pay.
49
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 10	- PERSONNEL FILES
10.1	In accordance with Section 44031 (a) of the Education Code, materials in files or materials to be placed in the files
of employees which may serve as a basis for affecting the status of their employment are to be made available for the inspection of the employee involved provided that the request is made for a time when such person is not actually required to render service to the employing District. Except for logical documentable reasons, such requested reviews shall be honored within a reasonable time.
10.2	Derogatory material which comes to the attention of the administration and which might be placed in the employee's personnel file shall not be placed in the file until after the administration has made every effort to validate subject material. If such material is to be placed in the file, it shall be presented to the employee no later than thirty (30) days from the administration's awareness of the act, provided such act took place within the preceding twelve (12) months. Validation will include consulting with the employee.
10.2.1	Documents of a derogatory, critical, and/or negative nature from whatever source shall not be filed for fourteen
calendar days so that the employee shall have been given notice and an opportunity to review the material and comment thereon. The employee's comment shall be attached to the original document. Such review of this material shall take place during normal business hours, and the employee shall be released from duty for this purpose without salary reduction. Any person may enter into his/her file a comment on any material therein with no time limitation.
10.2.2	Copies of all derogatory materials must be included in the employee's file before it can be used in any disciplinary
action against the employee.
10.2.2.1	All material in the personnel folder which is found to be erroneous or can be invalidated shall, at the request of the teacher, be sealed as well as labeled erroneous and invalid. The administrator, assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office, and the teacher shall each place their signature on the sealed materials.
10.3	Personnel files include those maintained by principal or other administrators involved in employee evaluation as well as files maintained by the Personnel Services Office.
10.4	Documents and materials referred to above shall not include those obtained or made prior to employment or in connection with promotion.
10.5	Employees shall have the right to authorize, in writing, a representative to examine their personnel files and obtain copies of items within the file at their own expense.
10.6	The person who causes materials to be placed in the files shall sign and date them. Anonymous documents, letters, or other materials shall not be filed.
10.7	Access to personnel files shall be limited to the members of the District administration on a need-to-know basis. Board of Education members may request the review of a teacher's file at a personnel session of the entire Board of Education. The contents of all personnel files shall be kept in the strictest confidence.
10.8	Any derogatory material placed in the employee's file which does not comply with law or the specifications of Section 2 of this Article shall be removed from the file.
10.9	The Personnel Services Office shall maintain a log indicating the persons who have checked out a personnel file and the dates such requests were made. Employees working within the Personnel Services Office and the superintendent, and/or confidential employees assigned to the superintendent's office are exempted from this requirement. Such logs shall be available for examination by the teacher or Association representative if so authorized by the teacher.
10.10	All documents, communications and records dealing with the processing of any grievance will be filed in a separate grievance file and will not be placed in the personnel file of any of the participants.
50
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 11	- SAFETY CONDITIONS
11.1	A teacher may use reasonable force, as is necessary, to protect himself/herself from attack, to protect another person or property, to quell a disturbance threatening physical injury to others, or to obtain possession of weapons or other dangerous objects upon the person or within control of a student.
11.1	.1 Behavior which is inimical to a proper and positive learning environment shall be cause for removal of a student from a classroom. In all cases when a student is removed from class, the teacher must notify the administrator or his/her designee to provide for continuous supervision of the student.
11.2	Administrators will assist teachers who have been or are being assaulted while acting in the discharge of their duties.
11.3	In the case of any menace, assault, or attack upon a teacher, the local site administrator shall explain the relevant code sections to the affected teacher and shall assist the teacher in completing the written report of the incident on the appropriate form. The administrator in charge shall notify the police. If a formal complaint is to be made, it is the teacher's responsibility to file such complaint with the proper authorities but the administrator in charge shall lend assistance as requested. Any information in the possession of the District not privileged under the law and relating to the assault will be made available to the teacher upon request.
11.3.1	Upon request the District shall transmit to the Association a report of all such incidents that have been recorded. In recognition of the District's workload, such requests shall be limited to one (1) per school year. The Association shall pay for all relevant costs of compiling and producing the report.
11.4	Teachers shall not be required to work under unsafe or hazardous conditions, or to perform tasks which endanger their health, safety or well-being.
11.4.1	Teachers will be provided a means of directly communicating a need for assistance to the principal or designated
person in charge in the case of any emergency when a potential for physical harm is evident or immediate assistance is required.
11.4.2	Teachers shall be provided lighting and security at night functions which are approved school activities.
11.5	A teacher may suspend, for the day of the suspension and the day following, any pupil from his/her class for any
of the acts enumerated in the Education Code. The teacher shall immediately report the suspension to the principal of the school and send the pupil to the principal for appropriate action. As soon as possible, the teacher shall ask the parent or guardian of the pupil to attend a parent-teacher conference regarding the suspension. The pupil shall not be returned to the class from which he/she was suspended, during the period of the suspension, without the concurrence of the teacher of the class and the principal.
11.5.1	A pupil suspended from a class shall not be placed in another regular class during the period of suspension without the permission of the receiving teacher. However, if the pupil is assigned to more than one class per day, this section shall apply only to other regular classes scheduled at the same time as the class from which the pupil was suspended.
11.5.2	The teacher of any class from which a pupil is suspended may require the suspended pupil to complete any assignment and tests missed during the suspension.
11.6	The District will provide information to members of the bargaining unit to make them aware of the provisions of
the Education Code which provides for exclusion of any student.
11.7	The Board shall reimburse employees for any damage or destruction of clothing or other items of personal property brought in and removed each day while on duty in the school, on the school premises, or at a school-sponsored activity as per District policy.
11.8	The District shall provide written current procedures for control of loiterers and unauthorized persons on or adjacent to school sites to every member of the bargaining unit and copies shall be posted in prominent locations on the school site.
51
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
11.9
11.10
11.11
11.12
11.13
11.13.1
11.14
11.14.1
11.14.2
11.15
11.16
11.17
In the interest and protection of students and teachers, the Board shall commit the school District to cooperate closely with all law enforcement agencies in matters of mutual concern.
Whenever information comes to the principal's attention which clearly identifies a student with a history of behavior which has been inimical to the safety of others, and which information is not privileged under the law, the principal shall inform the teacher(s) to whom the student is assigned as soon as reasonably possible.
For the protection of students and staff, each teacher shall be provided with a copy of the on-site emergency and disaster plan which has been developed for the school to which he/she is assigned.
A collection of the pertinent discipline codes delineating the rights and duties of all teachers with respect to student discipline shall be presented to each teacher and made available to each parent annually.
Teachers who are required to supervise students in activities other than the classroom and without the presence of an administrator will have the authority and responsibility to enforce state laws, District policy, school discipline code, and building rules.
Each building principal shall establish a chain of command to supervise in his/her absence.
Except in an emergency at least two (2) adults will be on duty at each Children's Center at all times, unless the affected teacher, in conference with the site supervisor, agrees to schedule aide time in another manner.
Each Children's Center Supervisor shall provide and post his/her weekly work schedule at each site under his/her supervisor prior to effective date.
An adequate safe shall be provided at each Children's Center for the secure storage of money.
School principals shall make every effort to provide secured storage space for employees' personal property brought in and removed every day (e.g., clothing, watches, eyeglasses, etc.).
Adequate and safe transportation for authorized field trips shall be provided as available and necessary at every school.
A teacher who participates in a student-parent conference that gives formal notice of proficiency test deficiencies shall be held harmless by the District in any litigation by a parent or student.
52
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 12	- COMPENSATION
12.1
12.1.1
12.1.2
12.1.3
12.1.4
12.1.5
12.1.6
12.1.7
12.1.8
12.2
12.2.1
12.2.1.1
12.2.1.2
Definitions of terms used in this Article.
Base Salary: Annual salary rate for employees compensated on the Teachers' Salary Schedule, based upon training and years of experience.
Contract Daily Rate: Base salary divided by the number of days of required service for teachers. This is also known as the Per Diem Rate.
Contract Hourly Rate: The contract daily rate multiplied by .1538 for all Nonmanagement certificated personnel except those for whom separate factors are listed below:
-	Counselors: Contract daily rate multiplied by . 1428.
-	Psychologists, program specialists, and social workers: Contract daily rate multiplied by .1250.
-	Children's Center teachers: Contract daily rate multiplied by .1250.
Contract Salary: Base salary plus or minus adjustments for additional days of required service, employment begun before or after the first day of required service, and/or less than full-time employment.
Extra Duty Assignment: The supervision of students in activities after the close of the regular school day and/or on non-teaching days. Extra duty assignments for which compensation is provided are listed in Section 12.9.2 of this Article.
Per Session Rate: Pay rate calculated at 1/1080 of the base annual salary up to a maximum amount calculated from Class C, Step 2, on the Teachers' Salary Schedule for K-12 and preschool, or Class 5, Step 2, on the Salary Schedule for Teachers of Adult Education.
Day-to-Day Substitute: A certificated teacher hired on a day-to-day basis to replace a regular teacher who is absent or who is temporarily assigned other duties.
Non-Contract Certificated Nonmanagement Employees: Certificated Nonmanagement employees employed on a per session or hourly basis for not more than eighteen (18) hours per week, and in adult education, for not more than four (4) months.
Salary Schedule Structure
The structure of the K-12, Preschool Teachers' Salary Schedule shall be as follows:
Class A
Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's Degree with credential
Number of Steps: 8
Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 8
Class B
Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's plus 45 semester hours or Master's Degree
Number of Steps: 12
Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 9
53
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
12.2.1.3
12.2.1.4
12.2.1.4.1
12.2.1.5
12.2.1.5.1
12.2.1.5.2
12.2.1.5.3
Class C
Minimum Requirements: Bachelor’s plus 75 semester hours; or Master's plus 24 semester hours; or Alternate to Master's
Number of Steps: 14 plus longevity increments for 17th, 20th, and 23rd years of credited service
Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 9
Class D
Minimum Requirements: Bachelor’s plus 90 semester hours; or Master's plus 35 semester hours; or Bachelor's plus 75 semester hours including Master's/Alternate
Number of Steps: 23
Effective Date: January 1, 1992. (For January 1, 1992 placement on Column D, units must be filed with the Certificated Personnel Office by December 20, 1991. Subsequent placement shall be per 12.4.4.)
Entering (new) teachers to the District may not be placed on Column D until and unless they have earned that placement after employment in the District by earning at least 15 additional new units after initial employment with the District.
Class E* - Reclassification Column
The K-12 and Preschool Teachers and Non-Management Specialists Personnel salary schedules shall have a reclassification column applied.
Class E
Minimum requirements:
a.	Bachelor's Degree plus 90 semester hours with a Master's Degree (effective May 1,1998); or Bachelor's Degree plus 103 semester hours (effective July 1, 1998);
-and-
b.	1. Employees Currently (1996-97) on Class D*
The employee must have served on Class D at least one (1) school year. Qualifying semester hours in excess of the Class D requirements must be taken on or after July 1, 1997, pursuant to procedures determined by the parties. One semester hour for ELL authorization (e.g., LDS, SB 1969, CLAD, BCLAD) will count even if taken prior to July 1997.
^Classes D and E refer to the equivalent columns on other schedules.
b.2. Employees Not Yet (1996-97) On Class D
All teachers not currently (1996-97) on Class D must serve on Class D at least one school year and take semester hours beyond Class D requirements after one school year on Class D, pursuant to the unit authorization procedure under 12.2.1.5.2.b.l.
Number of Steps: 26
Special Procedures for Teachers on Class D Holding a Master's Degree in 1996-97:
a.	Teachers currently on Class D holding a Bachelor's Degree plus 90 or more semester hours for salary placement with a Master's Degree will be eligible for Class E on May 1, 1998 without taking additional semester hours.
54
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
12.2.1.6
12.2.1.7
12.2.1.8
12.2.2
12.2.2.1
12.2.2.2
12.2.2.3
12.2.2.4
12.2.2.5
b.	Teachers on Class D with a Bachelor's Degree plus 75 and less than 90 semester hours for salary placement with a Master’s Degree will move to Class E on or after May 1, 1998 upon completion of the balance of the 90 semester hours pursuant to the unit authorization procedure under 12.2.1.5.2.b.l.
Persons assigned to teach in positions requiring any of the credentials listed below shall be placed no lower than Class B if they hold a bachelor's degree and have fulfilled all requirements for such credentials. If all requirements of such credentials have not been fulfilled, or if individuals do not hold bachelor's degrees, they shall be placed no lower than Class A: Vocational Class A, B, or D; Design. Subjs. Cred, with Spec, in Vocational Trade and Technical teaching; and Design. Subjs. Cred, in Industrial Arts and Vocational Subjects and ROTC Instructors. Advancement to Class C requires the fulfillment of all requirements for that class.
Step 17 is available only to persons who meet requirements for Class C, and who have sixteen (16) years of credited service. Step 20 is available only to persons who have nineteen (19) years of credited service, and who have met the requirements for Class C. Step 23 is available only to those persons who have 22 years of credited service, and who have met the requirements for Class C.
An additional stipend equal to .02527 times Class A, Step 8 (rounded to the nearest dollar) is added for the earned doctorate and is prorated if for less than a full year.
The structure of the Salary Schedule for Certificated Nonmanagement Children's Center Personnel shall be as follows:
Class A
Minimum Requirements: 0-59 semester hours
Number of Steps: 5
Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 5
Class B
Minimum Requirements: 60-89 semester hours including 8 in child care
Number of Steps: 5
Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 5
Class C
Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's degree, or 90 semester hours including 12 in child care
Number of Steps: 5
Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 5
Class D
Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's + 15 semester hours
Number of Steps: 6
Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 6
Class E
Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's + 30 semester hours or Bachelor's + Fulfilled Elementary or Early Childhood Credential
55
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
Number of Steps: 8
Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 8
12.2.3	The yearly salaries for Certificated Nonmanagement Specialist Personnel (program specialists, psychologists, and school social workers) shall be equal to the indices shown below times the yearly K-12 teachers salary schedule for Class A, Step 8.
12.2.3.1	Psychologists:
Stepl:	1.3329
Step 2:	1.3994
Step 3:	1.4695
Step 4:	1.5429
Step 5:	1.6200
Step 17: 1.6726
Step 20: 1.7122
Step 23: 1.7519
12.2.3.2	Program Specialists and Social Workers:
Stepl:	1.2725
Step 2:	1.3362
Step 3:	1.4029
Step 4:	1.4732
Step 5:	1.5468
Step 17: 1.5922
Step 20: 1.6319
Step 23: 1.6715
12.2.3.3	An additional stipend equal to .02527 times Class A, Step 8 (rounded to the nearest dollar) is added for the earned doctorate and is prorated if for less than a full year.
12.2.3.4	Longevity increments shall be granted to employees with sixteen (16) years of credited service, to employees with nineteen (19) years of credited service, and to employees with twenty-two (22) years of credited service.
12.2.4	Rates for day-to-day substitutes shall be as follows:
12.2.4.1	.0024747 times the value of Class A, Step 8 teachers' salary for each full day of substitute service up to and
including the fifth (5th) day of assignment.
12.2.4.2	.003763 times the value of Class A, Step 8 of the teachers' salary schedule for each full day of assignment after
the sixth (6th) day of assignment.
12.2.4.3	Qualified substitutes for psychologists shall be paid at Step 1, Class X of the psychologists' pay schedule for each full day of substitute work. Substitute work for less than a full day shall be paid on a prorated hourly basis as per Step 1, Class X.
12.2.4.4	Substitutes who begin service in September annually shall be entitled to ten (10) refusals of assignment annually. Substitutes beginning service after September shall be entitled to a pro rata share of ten (10) refusals based on the remaining months in the school year. First day of service must be on or before the 15th day of the month to be eligible for credit for a refusal for the month. No reason for refusals shall be required. Inability to reach substitutes by telephone, including late calls up to 10:00 a.m., unanswered calls, busy signals, and answering devices, after two (2) attempts shall be considered a refusal of assignment.
12.2.4.5	Substitutes receiving a rate of pay above the first rate who exceed their allotment of refusals shall be returned to the first rate of pay and must serve the required number of days before advancing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the rate of pay will not be reduced after the allotted number of refusals during a pilot program effective from December 17, 1996 through June 30, 1998.
56
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
12.2.4.6	Substitutes shall retain their compensation status and carry it forward to the following school year. Any accumulated refusals shall not be carried forward to the following school year.
12.2.4.7	Compensation for part-day assignments shall be based upon one-half (1/2) or two-thirds (2/3) the rate of pay for which the substitute qualifies, depending upon which fraction is nearest, but not less than the actual time served. The length of a substitute's day is equal to the day of the employee for whom he/she is substituting. Partial day assignments will be counted as a day of service for advancement to the next pay step.
12.2.4.8	Substitutes who teach or start a class for which there is no regular teacher providing lesson plans at any time during the school year shall be paid at their appropriate contract daily rate provided they are responsible for lesson planning, all other teacher duties, and in the position for at least thirty (30) calendar days. After thirty (30) days, the substitute shall receive the appropriate rate retroactively and shall continue to receive the rate until replaced or placed in the position.
12.2.5	The structure of the Adult Education Teachers' Salary Schedule shall be as follows:
12.2.5.1	Class I Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's or less Number of Steps: 5 Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 5
12.2.5.2	Class II Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's +15 semester hours Number of Steps: 6 Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 6
12.2.5.3	Class III Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's + 30 semester hours Number of Steps: 8 Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 8
12.2.5.4	Class IV Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's + 45 semester hours or Master's degree Number of Steps: 12 Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 9
12.2.5.5	Class V Minimum Requirements: Bachelor's + 75 semester hours; or Master's + 24 semester hours; or Alternate to Master's Number of Steps: 14 plus longevity increments for 17th, 20th, and 23rd years of credited service Maximum Step Placement on Entrance: 9
12.2.5.6	Persons assigned to teach in positions requiring any of the credentials listed below shall be placed no lower than Class IV if they hold a bachelor's degree and have fulfilled all requirements for such credentials. If all 57
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
requirements of such credentials have not been fulfilled, or if the individual does not hold a bachelor's degree, he shall be placed no lower than Class III: Vocational Class A, B, or D; Design. Subjs. Cred, with Spec, in Vocational Trade and Technical teaching; and Design. Subjs. Cred, in Industrial Arts and Vocational Subjects and ROTC Instructors. Advancement to Class V requires the fulfillment of all requirements for that class.
12.2.5.7	Step 17 is available only to persons who meet requirements for Class V, who have sixteen (16) years of credited service. Step 20 is available only to persons who have nineteen (19) years of credited service, and who have met the requirements for Class V. Step 23 is available only to those persons who have 22 years of credited service, and who have met the requirements for Class V. Such increment shall be increased by the general percentage increase for Adult Education.
12.2.5.8	An additional stipend equal to .02527 times Class III, Step 8 (rounded to the nearest dollar) is added for the earned doctorate and is prorated if for less than a full year.
12.2.5.9	A "U" contract teacher's annual salary shall be 230 times his/her contract daily rate as determined by his/her appropriate class and step placement on the Adult Education Teacher's Salary Schedule.
12.3 Experience Credit
12.3.1	Vertical (step) placement on the Teachers' Salary Schedule shall correspond to the number of years of District teaching service, with the following exceptions:
12.3.1.1	Step placement may be higher if experience credit has been granted at the time of initial employment in keeping with Sections 12.3.2 through 12.3.5 of this Article.
12.3.1.2	Persons who have reached the maximums of their salary classes, when obtaining the requirements for a higher
class, shall be moved over to the new class and be placed on the step which corresponds to their years of credited service.
12.3.2	Upon employment, experience credit is granted on the basis of one (1) step for each year of properly verified comparable experience with limitations set forth in Sections 12.2.1 through 12.2.3.3 of this Article. A year of experience must represent no less than seventy-five per cent (75%) of the days of required full-time service, although full semesters will be added together, even if in separate school years, in computing years of service. Credit for part-time experience will be computed by converting to full-time experience; e.g., two (2) years of half-time experience equal one (1) step of experience credit. Comparable experience includes previous teaching experience, Peace Corps service, VISTA service, preschool experience, or other exceptional professional assignments.
12.3.3	Upon application to the assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office, at the time of initial employment, prior non-certificated paid experience closely allied to the local certificated assignment, when fully verified, will be evaluated on the basis of one (1) step for each two (2) years of such acceptable experience within the past ten (10) years with a maximum placement on Step 4. Such credit, when added to any prior certificated experience credit, cannot result in placement higher than that indicated in Sections 12.2 through 12.2.3.3 of this Article.
12.3.4	Upon reemployment, prior experience credit is not reevaluated for a teacher returning to the service of the District
within ten (10) years after termination, but verified experience gained during the interim will be evaluated. Such personnel are returned to their place on the schedule in effect when they terminated, and then all schedule changes which occurred during their absence and any interim experience credit are applied to determine their placement on the present schedule.
12.3.5	Employees new to the District have a maximum of ninety (90) days from their first day of required service in which to file verifications of comparable or allied experience. After ninety days, verification can be filed without retroactive credit.
12.3.6	A year of teaching service in the District is earned for salary schedule step placement if an employee is paid for seventy-five percent (75%) or more of the school year, including time spent on sabbatical leave of absence, or if the employee is participating in the early retirement incentive plan as set forth in P-3604 of the Board's Policies and Bylaws, as adopted on July 10, 1978.
58
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
12.3.6.	1 Initial placement on the salary schedule for newly hired employees shall include cumulative semesters, where service has been for at least 75% of each semester, rounded to the nearest full year.
12.3.6.	2 Following initial employment, personnel shall be given earned step increments effective July 1. Personnel may accumulate non-consecutive semesters of employment and shall be advanced on the next succeeding July 1 for each two semesters.
12.3.7	Personnel employed in summer school programs shall be given their earned step increments effective with their first day of summer school service.
12.3.8	Personnel employed on a per session basis in 12-month adult education programs are to be given their earned step increments, effective July 1.
12.3.9	Personnel who are employed during the summer period on a contract daily rate basis (CDR) are to be given their earned salary step increments, effective July 1.
12.4 Training Classification
12.4.1	Training classification is based upon earned collegiate degrees and regular credits earned in excess of degree requirements in fully accredited four-year colleges and universities, or in the District’s Professional Improvement Program as outlined in the Board's Policies and Bylaws, Sections P-3572 through P-3575, adopted on July 10, 1978. Credits will be accepted only if they are earned in a four-year college or university accredited by a regional accrediting Association, if they are accepted by the Commission for Teacher Preparation and Licensing for credentialing purposes, or if they are reported on appropriate forms as outlined in connection with the District's Professional Improvement Program. Training classification shall be determined twice annually on July 1 and February 1, except that July 1 st class changes shall not be used in determining summer school per session rates of pay for that year.
12.4.1.1	Excess units are defined as those units earned in excess of the minimum requirement for the degree in the institution where the degree was granted, and may have been earned before or after the awarding of the degree.
12.4.2	Before beginning work on any four-year college or university courses or on any courses sponsored by the District's Staff Training Services Department, prior approval must be obtained by all Nonmanagement certificated personnel from their principal (or other administrator responsible for the evaluation of the employee's performance). This approval will be made "on the basis of a plan for the orderly and appropriate professional improvement" of all employees. Approval forms for four-year college or university courses must be completed and filed with the Personnel Services Office. Approval forms for inservice courses offered by the Staff Training Services Department must be filed with that department. Approvals denied by the principals may be appealed to the assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office.
12.4.2.1	Reasons for disapproval by the site administrator must be substantiated in writing and returned to the teacher within five (5) days. Failure to do so shall constitute a waiver of the site administrator's right to disapprove the course(s).
12.4.2.2	The teacher may appeal the site administrator's disapproval to the assistant superintendent, Personnel Services Office, or, in his/her absence, the appropriate area assistant superintendent. Such appeal must be in writing and must be received in the appropriate assistant superintendent's office no later than ten (10) days after the date of the site administrator's disapproval.
12.4.3	Credit for participation in the District's Program for Professional Improvement, as set forth in Sections P-3572 to 3575 of the Board's Policies and Bylaws, adopted on July 10, 1978, to be amended according to this Agreement, shall be as follows:
12.4.3.1	Textbook evaluation or curriculum development (allowance, one [1] unit of credit per thirty-two [32] hours of time expended).
12.4.3.2	Junior college or adult education courses (allowance, one [1] unit of credit per fifteen [15] hours in a lecture course, or forty-five [45] hours in a laboratory course).
12.4.3.3	Educational research (allowance, one [1] unit per thirty-two [32] hours of effort expended).
59
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
12.4.3.4
12.4.3.5
12.4.3.6
12.4.3.7
12.4.3.8
12.4.3.9
12.4.3.10
12.4.4
12.5
12.5.1
12.6
12.6.1
12.6.2
12.6.3
12.7
12.7.1
Professional organization work (allowance, one [1] unit per thirty-two [32] hours of time and effort expended).
Visitations or observations (allowance, one [1] unit per forty [40] hours spent).
Conference attendance (allowance, one [1] unit per forty [40] hours of attendance).
Workshop attendance (allowance, one [1] unit per thirty-two [32] hours of time and effort expended).
Development of teaching materials (allowance, one [1] unit per forty [40] hours of time expended).
Travel (allowance, one [1] unit per week of travel; limit, three [3] units per three-year period).
Private study (allowance, one [1] unit per thirty-two [32] hours of time expended).
Transcripts or official grade cards containing evidence of units earned should be filed immediately upon completion. The deadline for filing units for July 1 class changes is October 10. The deadline for filing units for February 1 class changes is March 10. Class changes based upon credits earned prior to the deadline dates will be retroactive to July 1 or February 1. Records filed will not be returned to the employee. Employees new to the District will have a maximum of sixty (60) days from their first day of required service in which to file units. Handwritten or typed grade cards cannot be accepted unless properly stamped with the school seal.
Method of Payment
The annual amounts shown on the Teachers' Salary Schedule are full annual contract salaries and are based upon required days of service as provided for in this contract. Employees on regular and temporary contracts may elect either to have payment made in either twelve (12) equal installments beginning on September 30 and continuing through August 31, or ten (10) equal installments beginning on September 30 and continuing through June 30, except for those incumbents on the advanced pay plan, who may have payment made in twelve (12) equal installments beginning on July 31 and continuing through June 30. Requests for changes in preferred pay plan must be submitted in writing to the Personnel Services Office no later than May 15 preceding the school year in which the change is to take place.
Computations
If regular contract employment is begun after the first day of required service, the annual salary is computed by multiplying the contract daily rate for the individual's step and class placement times the number of days between and including the first and last days of required service. The monthly salary is then computed by dividing the annual salary by the number of months remaining through June or August, depending upon the pay plan elected. The contract daily rate is computed by dividing the schedule salary by the number of required days between and including the first and last days of required service in the school year. If regular contract employment is begun on the first day of the second semester, the contract amount shall be not less than half the annual schedule salary.
When an employee is reassigned from a position of psychologist, program specialist, or school social worker, to a position compensated on the Teachers' Salary Schedule, placement shall be in the class on the teachers' schedule to which he/she is entitled by virtue of training, provided that his/her step placement in the class on the teachers' schedule shall be that which is closest to but not less than the daily rate presently received; except that such rate cannot exceed the maximum rate of the assigned class.
When an employee is reassigned from a position compensated on the salary schedule for certificated Nonmanagement Children's Center personnel to aposition compensated on the Teachers' Salary Schedule, he/she shall be moved to the training classification for which he/she qualifies at the same step, except that he/she shall be allowed one (1) step increment if the requirements of an annual earned increment have been met, and placement is not already at maximum for the class.
Per Session Compensation
Per session or hourly rate shall be based upon the adopted salary schedule. The rate shall be calculated at 1/1080 of the Teachers' Salary Schedule for K-12 and preschool up to a maximum amount calculated from Class C, Step 2.
60
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
12.7.2	Members of the unit employed in summer school or part-time adult shall be paid at the appropriate per session rate of pay.
12.7.2.1	The per session rates for K-12 summer school shall be 1/1080 of Class B, Step 4. Such index shall be incorporated into the Sacramento Agreement and shall pertain only to K-12 summer school, effective the summer of 1986-87.
12.7.2.2	Adult Education Teachers paid on hourly Adult Education Teachers' Salary Schedule (Appendix B-5) shall be paid the hourly amount per Class H-2, Step 7 for summer school work.
12.7.3	In any fiscal year a non-contract employee who has completed 810 hours of per session service with the Sacramento City Unified School District shall be entitled to an earned increment for the following year. However, if less than 810 hours are worked during a fiscal year, all of such hours shall be accumulated and carried forward to the next fiscal year.
12.7.3.1	When accumulated hours equal 1,050 during the year earned increment is granted, the hours worked beyond 1,050 shall be credited toward the next step increment; provided that no employee shall be eligible for more than one (1) earned step increment during any fiscal year.
12.7.3.2	Earned increments shall be granted only on July 1 of each fiscal year. No distinction shall be made as to the manner in which per session hours are accumulated, i.e., from adult education, summer session, home teaching, etc.; provided, that per session hours shall have no effect upon step increments granted to contract employees.
12.7.4	All certificated personnel who voluntarily perform duties authorized by the Personnel Services Office which are beyond their normal service day shall be paid at their per session rates of pay, except for assignments and meetings as set forth in Article 5, Sections 5.9 through 5.10.7, and Sections 12.8.4 through 12.9.8 of this Article.
12.8 Compensation for Required Extra Service
12.8.1	All personnel employed in classifications such as child welfare and attendance counselors, department chairpersons, counselors, vocational specialists, and student activity advisors, shall be placed on the regular Teachers’ Salary Schedule in the same manner as regular teachers, and shall advance in the same manner. To their salaries, however, shall be added the product of the number of days of service beyond those required of regular teachers times the contract daily rate.
12.8.2	Any member of the bargaining unit who is required by appropriate administrative authority or District regulation
to serve additional days or hours beyond his/her service year or service day, as defined in Article 5 of this Agreement, shall be compensated for such day or fraction thereof at the contract hourly rate or the per session rate, whichever is greater, except for extra duty pay for those selected work assignments enumerated in Sections 12.8.4 through 12.9.8 of this Article and also excepting Sections 5.3.7 and 5.9 through 5.10.7 of Article 5.
12.8.3	Adult Education Teachers who teach beyond regular contract hours of service shall be paid per session rates.
12.8.3.1	Adult Education Teachers who are placed on the hourly Adult Education Teachers' Salary Schedule (Appendix
B-5) shall be paid at the appropriate rate for all hours assigned except that hours beyond 40 hours per week in the Adult Program shall be paid at 1 1/2 times the appropriate rate.
12.8.4	When teachers agree voluntarily to serve on curriculum development committees or project teams, they shall be given the alternative of released time with the provision of a substitute, or the negotiation of a "contract" for such work which shall be based on a contract daily rate of .002458 of Class A, Step 8.
12.8.5	In order to reimburse employees who temporarily assume the duties of a principal, the District shall provide a stipend to a designated person in each school where there is no co-administrator. This stipend will require that the designated member of the bargaining unit shall assume the duties in the absence of the principal for any and all occasions when the principal is not available at the school site. Designated teachers in charge shall be paid a monthly stipend of $50.00 for each of nine calendar months. Such persons serving in year-round programs (e.g., 230-day programs) shall be paid a monthly stipend of $50.00 for each calendar month of the year. Such teachers shall work under the following conditions:
61
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
a.	No teacher shall be required to serve in this position.
b.	All teachers shall be given an opportunity to volunteer for this position each year.
c.	A designated teacher in charge shall have the right to withdraw at any time with 10 working days' notice and be paid on a pro rata basis.
d.	The designated teacher in charge shall be informed each time the site administrator is to be absent from the school.
e.	A designated teacher shall not have discipline or evaluation responsibilities for members of the bargaining unit.
12.8.5.	1 When both the principal and designated teacher are absent and another member of the unit is assigned responsibility for carrying out the duties of the principal, he/she shall be compensated at the rate of $8 per day.
12.8.6	When an employee temporarily assumes the duties of a vice principal, he/she shall receive a stipend which equals the difference between his/her regular daily rate and the daily rate eamable as a vice principal, provided that he/she shall not receive less than $5.00 nor more than $8.00 additional compensation per day.
12.8.6.1	Children's Center teachers designated as teacher-in-charge must meet state requirements.
12.8.6.1.1	At Children's Centers where only one teacher is assigned, the designated teacher-in-charge shall be granted a fifty-dollar ($50.00) stipend for each month of service.
12.8.6.1.2	At each Children's Center site where two (2) or more teachers are assigned, the stipend for designated teacher-in-charge shall be shared between two teachers and shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per month of service for each teacher.
12.8.7	In accordance with Education Code Section 44032, District personnel required to travel out-of-District and/or attend mandated workshops, seminars, or conferences, will be reimbursed for actual lodging expenses and/or a maximum equivalent to the single rate charged for lodging designated as conference headquarters, plus $5.00 for breakfast, $9.00 for lunch and $ 16.00 for dinner, for a maximum of $30.00 per day food allowance: and mileage claims, if any, whether in-District or out-of-District, will be paid at a mileage allowance rate of $.26 per mile.
12.8.8	Parent Participation Teachers
12.8.8.1	Parent participation pre-school teachers who teach in a State-funded program for 3 0 hours a week shall receive a
stipend of 6.3% of the annual base salary.
12.8.8.2	Parent participation pre-school teachers who teach in a Head Start/State-funded program for 29 hours a week shall receive a stipend of 12.9% of the Head Start portion of the annual base salary.
12.8.8.3	Parent participation pre-school teachers who teach in an Adult Ed/Head Start-funded program for 30 hours a week shall receive a stipend of 12.9% of the Head Start portion of the annual base salary.
12.8.8.4	Parent participation pre-school teachers who teach in an Adult Ed/State-funded program for 30 hours a week shall receive a stipend of 6.3% of the State-funded portion of the annual base salary.
12.8.8.5	All teachers identified in section 12.8.8.1 through 12.8.8.4 will be excused from the District bimonthly inservice training. However, each teacher will, in consultation with his/her supervisor, develop an individualized staff development plan.
12.8.8.6	No home visits will be required for teachers identified in sections 12.8.8.1 through 12.8.8.4 for the State-funded portion(s).
12.8.8.7	Home visits will be required for teachers identified in sections 12.8.8.1 through 12.8.8.4 for the Head Start-funded portion(s).
62
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
12.9
Extra Pay for Extra Duty
12.9.1 The following six (6) pay categories shall be established as the basis for compensating employees on the extra duty schedule described in Section 12.9.2 of this Article.
Category A:
Category B:
Category C:
Category D:
Category E: Category F:
.083125 of Class A, Step 8.
86.75% of the amount for Category A 73.5% of the amount for Category A
60.25% of the amount for Category A 47% of the amount for Category A 20.8% of the amount for Category A
12.9.2 The following table designates the specific positions allocated to Categories A through F.
Abbreviation Key
(A)	Assistant	(B)	Boys
(F)	Freshmen	(G)	Girls
(H)	Head	(HS)	High School
(JH)	Junior High	(M)	Men
(MS)	Middle School	(S)	Sophomore
(V)	Varsity	(W)	Women
Category A Agriculture Baseball (H,V,M) Basketball(H,V,M) Basketball (H,W) Football (H,V,M) Track*(H,V,M,W) Wrestling (H,V,M)	Category B Athletic Director (HS) Band Director Baseball (S,M) Basketball (S,M) Cross-Country** Drama Football (V,A,M) Football (S,M) Newspaper Advisor Softball (H,W) Speech/Debate Student Body Activity Advisor (HS) Track(H,V,M) (H,V,W) Volleyball (H,W) Yearbook
Category C Baseball (F,M) Basketball (F,M) Basketball (S,W) Cross-Country(M,W) Football (F,M) Golf (M,W) Gymnastics (M,W) Soccer (M,W) Softball (S,W) Swimming*** (H,M,W) Track* (A) Volleyball (S,W) Wrestling (A)	Category D Baseball (B)-JH/MS Basketball (B)-JH/MS Basketball (G)-JH/MS Basketball (F,W) Broadway Musical Director Cross-Country (F,M,W) Cross-Country (B,G)-JH/MS Gymnastics (B,G)-JH/MS Mathletes Middle School Advisors Soccer (F,M) Soccer (F,W) Softball (F,W) Softball (G)-JH/MS
63
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
	Category D - continued Spirit Advisors(HS) Student Body Activity Advisors (MS) Swimming*** (A) Tennis (M) Tennis (W) Track (F,M,W) Track (B)-JH/MS Track (G)-JH/MS Volleyball (G)-JH/MS Vocal Music Water Polo Wrestling (F,M)
Category E	Category F
All-City Orchestra All-City Choir Assistant Broadway Musical Director All-City Band Gymnastics (A,B,G)-JH/MS Orchestra	Intramurals (B,G)-JH/MS Head Teacher - Elementary, Children's Center, Preschool****
*	Schools may opt to have two (2) head coaches in Category B and one (1) assistant in Category C, or one (1) head
coach in Category A and two (2) assistants in Category C. (In no case shall a coach be placed in Category A unless he/she has full responsibility for both men's and women's track programs.)
*	*	Cross-country coaches must participate in one (1) meet per week for a minimum of 12 weeks and field the total
program (V, S, and G) to be eligible for Category B.
*	**	Schools may opt to have two (2) head coaches or one (1) head coach and one (1) assistant coach.
*	***	Children's Center and Pre-School Head Teachers who work in the 223 program shall be compensated on Category
F of the extra-duty schedule plus a pro-rated amount for the two additional months of service. The monthly amount shall be equal to one-ninth of the Category F stipend.
12.9.3 It is understood by the parties that all high school, junior high school, and middle school coaching positions on the extra duty schedule are assigned by mutual agreement of the principal and the teacher involved. If the teacher wishes to withdraw from an extra duty coaching position, or if the principal wishes to withdraw the extra duty assignment from the person presently holding that position, each party must notify the other in writing no later than December 1 of any school year for spring sports for that school year, and no later than June 1 of any school year to be effective at the beginning of the subsequent school year.
a.	Teachers who are declared surplus after the June 1 date and who have already agreed to a coaching assignment at their school for the subsequent year shall have the option of withdrawing from the coaching assignment if the teacher does not return to the school site.
b.	Coaching vacancies will be advertised first within the school in which the vacancy occurs. If there are no qualified applicants within the school, the position shall then be opened for other applicants from inside the District. If there are no qualified applicants from inside the District, the position shall be opened to outside of the District.
12.9.3.	1 Such changes in extra duty assignments noted in 12.9.3 shall have no effect on the teacher's assignment to classes during the service day.
12.9.3.	2	If a teacher serving in a position listed on the extra duty pay schedule other than coaching desires to withdraw
from the extra duty position, he/she shall so notify the site administrator in writing no later than March 1 preceding the school year in which withdrawal would become effective.
64
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
Upon receipt of such notification, the principal should take the following courses of action as appropriate:
a.	Survey the faculty by memorandum, bulletin, or meeting, to determine if there is another individual who is qualified and interested in the extra duty assignment.
b.	In the event that there is a teaching vacancy to be filled, determine if it is feasible to add the extra duty to the teaching position. In making such a determination, the principal should confer with the director, Secondary Certificated Personnel Services, regarding the likelihood of applicants who would be qualified for both the teaching assignment and the extra duty.
12.9.3.	3 If the principal is unable to fill the extra duty assignment by either course of action, he/she should then discuss with the teachers requesting withdrawal the kind of action which the teacher is willing to undertake in order to be relieved of the extra duty assignment. Such actions could include:
a.	"trading” extra duty assignments with other teachers who may also be interested in a change;
b.	requesting reassignment to a vacant teaching area in the school not associated with the extra duty assignment; or
c.	filing a voluntary request with the Personnel Services Office for transfer to another school.
12.9.3.	4 Such requests for transfer will be considered in keeping with the sections governing transfers in Article 8of this contract.
12.9.3.	5	If none of these options are available to the teacher, or if the teacher is unwilling to pursue them, the principal
may continue to hold the teacher responsible for the extra duty assignment during the ensuing school year, in which case the request for withdrawal will remain in effect unless withdrawn by the teacher.
12.9.3.	6 A teacher losing his/her classes related to his/her extra duty assignment shall have the option of withdrawing from that assignment.
12.9.3.	7 It is understood by the parties that teachers not already involved in non-athletic coaching assignments shall not be required to assume any such assignments.
12.9.3.	8 A teacher assuming classes that have a related activity is obligated to assume responsibility for that related activity.
12.9.4	The CIF required coaching days prior to the first day of school shall be compensated for and included in the extra duty stipend.
12.9.5	The secondary principals acting in committee, as a whole, will establish District-wide minimum requirements for activities not covered by league rules.
12.9.6	The parties agree that transportation for athletics and other school activities covered by present District policy shall be considered a budget priority.
12.9.7	Regular contract teachers who also are assigned extra duty coaching assignments will receive equal treatment and the same protection granted to all members of the bargaining unit which derive from the current Agreement between the parties.
12.9.8	It is further understood by the parties that a joint Board/Association committee (five [5] members to be selected by each party) will be appointed no later than thirty (30) days following the effective date of this Article, to conduct an annual review of the extra pay for extra duty schedule. The tasks of the committee shall be to review existing positions for proper categorical placement on the schedule and to consider addition or deletion of any position. The findings of the committee shall be subject to review by the Association and the Board by March 31 of each school year. The findings shall be implemented during the next school year unless objection is raised by either party prior to June 1.
65
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
12.9.9	Department Chairs: Forty-five positions District-wide with one department chair assigned to each of nine departments at each regular high school in the following departments:
Physical Education	Math
Social Science	Business, FACE
Science	Fine Arts, Industrial Arts
Foreign Language	Special Education
English	
Any new high school shall have the same department chair staffing.
a.	The service year shall be two (2) workdays beyond the teachers' required days of service paid at the contract daily rate; and
b.	Department chairs shall receive payment from the extra-duty pay schedule (12.9.2) according to the number of class sections taught within the department as follows:
A - 80 sections or more	C - 45 sections or more
B - 65 sections or more	D - 44 sections or more
12.9.9.1	Each department chairperson shall be selected annually by the high school principal from among a list of not less than two (2) teachers (unless only one teacher applied) from the department. The teachers shall have been nominated by a majority of the teachers in the department.
a.	A qualifying teacher may self-nominate or agree to any nomination from department staff members.
b.	To qualify for nomination or to vote on a nomination a teacher must instruct for at least three periods per
day in the department.
c.	Limited term teachers, substitutes, and temporaries may not vote.
d.	Teachers who serve in department chair positions may not serve for more than three consecutive years.
e.	Voting by each department shall take place in March of each school year and shall be conducted by the
department. Every teacher who qualifies to vote shall be given an opportunity to do so.
f.	Split departments may by majority vote agree to have co-chairs, one from each department. The voting process will be handled in the same manner as all other departments. However, the co-chairs shall be compensated at one-half the stipend rate as specified on the extra-duty schedule which a teacher would have earned as chair of the split department. In addition, each co-chair would serve and be paid for two days beyond the teachers' days of service.
12.10	Partial Funding for Sabbatical Leaves
12.10.1	Members of the bargaining unit who are granted sabbatical leaves will receive the difference between their contract salaries and the amount specified for Class C, Step 2.
12.10.2	District contributions for all fringe benefits shall continue for the duration of such leave at the same level as for all members on paid-leave status.
12.10.3	After the initial approval of an application for sabbatical leave, the Personnel Services Office shall provide full information regarding the compensation which will be paid to the applicant while on leave.
12.10.4	The applicant shall have five (5) working days upon receipt of such financial information to inform the Personnel Services Office of intent to accept or refuse the leave before final approval of the Board is obtained.
12.10.5	Refusal to accept such leave shall not be the basis of denial of subsequent applications submitted by the employee for sabbatical leaves.
66
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
12.11	The certificated Nonmanagement salary schedules are incorporated into this contract as Appendix B.
12.11.1	These salary schedules contain no overt or covert provisions for salary discrimination based upon sex, race,
creed, marital status, handicap, or age.
12.11.2	No differentials shall exist in rates of compensation except as provided for in this Agreement.
12.12	Subbing on Prep Time
12.12.1	Secondary teachers who give up prep periods to work as substitutes will be paid at the prorated (one-fifth) higher substitute rate. Secondary teachers who work block schedules will be paid at the appropriate prorated higher substitute rate. Notwithstanding the above, the District may continue to assign secondary teachers to unpaid emergency substitutions as set forth in Article 5.4.6.
12.13	Salary and Benefits for 2004-2005
12.13.1	For 2004-05, the salary schedules and related stipends will increase by 1.75 %, (1.0% due to additional on-going revenues to the District; .50% due to Health & Welfare savings; and .25% due to additional PARS savings) effective July 1, 2004. The .50% additional Health & Welfare savings as well as the additional .25% PARS savings are specific savings due only to the SCTA bargaining unit.
a.	The increase that would apply to extra duty stipends will be held in abeyance to allow the parties to consider changes to the extra duty schedule issues related to gender, uniformity and mileage stipends.
b.	The parties agree to continue to work through February 15, 2005, to add one-quarter percent (.25%) to the 1.75% to reach a goal of two percent (2.0%) for 2004-2005. The application of the one-quarter percent (.25%), if identified with on-going funds, will be applied in a manner agreeable to the parties.
12.13.2	Total Compensation Increase for 2005-06 and 2006-07
12.13.2.1	The parties agree to develop a mutually agreeable formula upon which a total compensation increase might be based by February 15, 2005, unless the parties mutually agree to extend the timeline; however, if there is no agreement on such a formula, the parties agree that the contract will be reopened for negotiations per the CBA in years two (2) and three (3) as it relates to total compensation.
a.	Upon implementation of the mutually agreeable formula, the parties agree that if there is a disagreement over the percentage or if additional funds are necessary to achieve such increase, the parties agree to meet in committee to resolve the matter.
b.	The parties also agree if they are unable to resolve the matter that either party may request to renegotiate total compensation. Any changes to the CBA will be subject to mutual agreement. Nothing herein precludes the parties from identifying additional funds for additional increases.
c.	The parties agree that the process for applying the calculation of any increase will begin September 15th
or thirty (30) working days after the adoption of the State budget which ever is later. The process will include the District’s notice to SCTA regarding the results of the calculation. SCTA or the District will then have the opportunity to avail the parties of the procedures outlined in 12.13.1 (a) and or 12.13.1 (b) above.
12.14	Additional Interests
12.14.1	Retirement Incentives: The parties agree to review the strategy for utilizing retirement incentives.
12.14.2	Compensation: The parties agree to form a task force to consider matters related to compensation,
including K-12 comparability, adult ed pay, children center pay and psychologist pay. The task force will begin meeting on or about March 1, 2005. Any recommendations are subject to mutual agreement of the parties.
67
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
12.15	Staff Development 2004 / 2005
12.15.1	The K-12 and Non-management Specialist salary schedules shall reflect three (3) additional days (18 hours for K-12, 24 hours for Non-management Specialists) for staff development These additional days / hours bring the number of K-12 days to 184 teacher service days and the number of Non-management Specialist days to 198 and 193 service days respectively.
12.15.2	The 18/24 hours of staff development are mandatory. For the K-12 Salary Schedule / 18 hour requirement, the number of hours and topics are specified in Attachment(s) A & B - the District will identify sessions.
12.15.3	The days / hours are to be applied and scheduled in approximately two (2) or three (3) hour sessions from one to three times a week from Monday to Thursday.
12.15.4	With good reason, sites / programs may utilize a different configuration of time with approval of SCTA and the District. Full day (six or eight hours) staff development days are to be consistent with the District / SCTA Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA).
12.15.5	The goal for receiving the 18/24 hours of staff development is to make sure that the 18/24 hours are completed by March 31,2005. If staff have not completed the 18 / 24 hours by March 31,2005, then make-up sessions must be offered. Every effort will be made to hold the make-up sessions at the site. In the event that staff have not completed the 18/24 hours of staff development by May 31, 2005, their pay may be docked for any hours not completed up to the required 18/24 hours of required staff development. Because of the nature of the staff development program, in extenuating circumstances (for example, long term paid leaves due to medical reasons) sick leave may be used in lieu of docking a teacher’s pay.
12.15.6	The continuation of the three (3) days (18 hours for K-12, 24 hours for Non-Management Specialists) shall be subject to the continued funding of the Instructional Time and Staff Development Reform Program (SB 1193, Chapter 313, statutes of 1998) by the state.
12.15.7	The Parties agree that if no staff development program is agreed to for the 2005-2006 school year by July 1, 2005, the K-12 and Non-Management Specialist Salary Schedules will be reduced by three (3) days on July 1, 2005, and three (3) days removed from the school calendar for 2005-2006 and into the future. During the 2005-2006 school year and into the future, as long as staff development funds are available under SB 1193, employee participation will be voluntary unless changed by mutual agreement.
12.15.8	Teachers funded by the Adult Education Fund and Child Development Fund are not covered by the staff development program unless funds become available or the parties agree to some other consideration.
12.15.9	Staff development activities for employees on the K-12 and Non-Management Specialists salary schedules not covered by the program (SB 1193, Chapter 313, statutes of 1998) will be developed in concert between unit members and supervisors, consistent with this agreement.
12.15.10	Any staff development opportunities offered through the District or programs by other agencies/providers after July 1, 2004, may be counted toward the 18/24 hour staff development requirement or as scheduled in accordance with 12.15.4. All offerings must meet State audit requirements.
12.15.11	The District and/or school site will schedule at least a combination of three (3) opportunity days for staff development between July 1, 2004 and September 6, 2004. The scheduled days referred herein are “opportunity days.” The opportunity days are for voluntary attendance but completion of obligation of 18 / 24 staff development hours is required by the close of May 31, 2005, per item 12.15.5.
12.16	Staff Development 2005 / 2006
12.16.1	The K-12 and Non-management Specialist salary schedules shall reflect three (3) additional days (18 hours for K-12, 24 hours for Non-management Specialists) for staff development These additional days / hours bring the number of K-12 days to 184 teacher service days and the number of Non-management Specialist days to 198 and 193 service days respectively.
68
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
12.16.2	The 18/24 hours of staff development are mandatory. For the K-12 Salary Schedule / 18 hour requirement, the number of hours and topics are specified in Attachment(s) A & B - the District will identify sessions.
12.16.3	The days / hours are to be applied and scheduled in approximately two (2) or three (3) hour sessions from one to three times a week from Monday to Thursday.
12.16.4	With good reason, sites / programs may utilize a different configuration of time with approval of SCTA and the District. Full day (six or eight hours) staff development days are to be consistent with the District / SCTA Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA).
12.16.5	The goal for receiving the 18 / 24 hours of staff development is to make sure that the 18/24 hours are completed by March 31,2006. If staff have not completed the 18 / 24 hours by March 31, 2006, then make-up sessions must be offered. Every effort will be made to hold the make-up sessions at the site. In the event that staff have not completed the 18 / 24 hours of staff development by May 31,2006, their pay may be docked for any hours not completed up to the required 18/24 hours of required staff development. Because of the nature of the staff development program, in extenuating circumstances (for example, long term paid leaves due to medical reasons) sick leave may be used in lieu of docking a teacher’s pay.
12.16.6	The continuation of the three (3) days (18 hours for K-12, 24 hours for Non-Management Specialists) shall be subject to the continued funding of the Instructional Time and Staff Development Reform Program (SB 1193, Chapter 313, statutes of 1998) by the state.
12.16.7	The Parties agree that if no staff development program is agreed to for the 2005-2006 school year by July 1, 2006, the K-12 and Non-Management Specialist Salary Schedules will be reduced by three (3) days on July 1, 2006, and three (3) days removed from the school calendar for 2006-2007 and into the future. During the 2006-2007 school year and into the future, as long as staff development funds are available under SB 1193, employee participation will be voluntary unless changed by mutual agreement.
12.16.8	Teachers funded by the Adult Education Fund and Child Development Fund are not covered by the staff development program unless funds become available or the parties agree to some other consideration.
12.16.9	Staff development activities for employees on the K-12 and Non-Management Specialists salary schedules not covered by the program (SB 1193, Chapter 313, statutes of 1998) will be developed in concert between unit members and supervisors, consistent with this agreement.
12.16.10	Any staff development opportunities offered through the District or programs by other agencies/providers after July 1, 2005, may be counted toward the 18 / 24 hour staff development requirement or as scheduled in accordance with 12.16.4. All offerings must meet State audit requirements.
12.16.11	The District and/or school site will schedule at least a combination of three (3) opportunity days for staff development between July 1, 2005 and September 5, 2005. The scheduled days referred herein are “opportunity days.” The opportunity days are for voluntary attendance but completion of obligation of 18 / 24 staff development hours is required by the close of May 31, 2006, per item 12.16.5.
69
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 13 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
13.1	Health Insurance
13.1.1	The Board shall provide all eligible employees with a choice of the Kaiser Plan and Health Net EW.
a. The Health Net T2 program shall be eliminated as an offering effective November 1, 2003. The members in the T2 program shall transfer to the EW program effective November 1,2003, per the switching program. The District and SCTA shall work cooperatively to ensure a smooth transition for the affected members.
All active and retired members in the Health Net T2 health plan shall be transferred to Health Net “EW” plan per Health Net “switching” program. The parties shall work cooperatively to ensure a smooth transition for the affected members.
13.1.1.1	The Board shall fully pay the cost of the above health insurance plans for eligible employees, and will pay one-hundred percent (100%) of the premium cost for those dependents covered by the plans.
13.1.1.2	Teachers selecting single coverage shall receive a monthly cash refund (subject to taxes) effective 07/01/02 as follows:
2004-05 *2005-06 *
Kaiser Singles	$65.51
Health Net EW	$45.07 / $52.49
Health Net T2
* Rates shown MONTHLY (12thly)
These amounts shall be adjusted in future years by the amount of the negotiated salary increase. The single coverage refund shall be increased 1.75% effective July 1, 2004.
The parties agree that the single stipend for the members enrolled in EW shall be maintained at the $52.49 rate, provided that the District determines that the appropriate cost swings are at an annualized rate of $1,000,000 or more. If not, the singles rate shall be a blended rate of $45.07.
13.1.1.3 The parties agree to modify the co-pay on the Health Net EW plan from $ 1 for doctor and prescription visits to $5; however, Health New EW plan members who utilize the mail order prescription service shall pay $3.
13.2	Dental Insurance
13.2.1	The Board shall provide all eligible employees with a fully paid dental plan. The Board shall pay seventy-five percent (75%) of the premium costs for eligible dependents. The plans offered shall be the current fee-for-service plan and may include a pre-paid dental plan (i.e., a dental HMO) upon mutual selection annually by the parties.
13.3	Vision Care
13.3.1	The Board shall provide employees with the current fee-for-service vision care plan and may provide a family vision plan upon annual selection by the parties.
13.4	Life Insurance
13.4.1	The Board shall provide all eligible employees with a fully paid life insurance policy. The Board shall pay seventy-five per cent (75%) of the life insurance premium for eligible dependents.
13.5	Tax Sheltered Annuities
13.5.1	Employees may participate in the tax sheltered annuity plan of their choice. Payroll deductions will be made for employees upon execution of the proper District form and in accordance with District rules.
70
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
13.6	Deferred Compensation
13.6.1	Payroll deductions will be made for Board of Education approved deferred compensation plans upon their execution of the appropriate District form.
13.7	Medical Examinations and Tests
13.7.1	All medical examinations and tests related to application requirements for new employees shall be paid for by the Board.
13.8	The Board of Education shall continue to provide, at no cost to the teachers, liability insurance coverage. Further, an agent of the insurance company will take immediate action to defend the teacher in any suit within the coverage provided.
13.9	Eligibility for District-Paid Insurance Benefits
13.9.1	Members of the bargaining unit employed under contract for not less than half-time and not less than one (1) full semester are eligible for fully-paid health, dental, life insurance, and vision care as provided in Sections 13.1 through 13.4.1.
13.9.2	Employees who are eligible under the conditions set forth in Section 13.9.1 of this Article, who are absent because of illness, and who have exhausted sick leave benefits shall continue to be covered by fully-paid health, dental, life insurance, and vision care as provided in Section 13.1 through 13.4.1 through June 30 of the school year in which sick leave benefits are exhausted.
13.9.3	Employees who are eligible under the conditions set forth in Section 13.9.1 of this Article and who are on sabbatical leave of absence shall continue to be covered by fully-paid health, dental, life insurance, and vision care as provided in Sections 13.1 through 13.4.1 while on such leave.
13.9.4	Employees who are eligible under the conditions set forth in Section 13.9.1 of this Article and who are participating in the early retirement incentive plan as described in P-3604 of the Board's Policies and Bylaws, as adopted on July 10, 1978, shall continue to be covered by fully paid health, dental, life insurance, and vision care as provided in Sections 13.1 through 13.4.1.
13.9.5	Temporary contract employees who have been terminated from positions which met the criteria set forth in Section 13.9.1 of this Article and who are reemployed for less than half-time or for less than one (1) full semester shall be covered by fully paid health, dental, life insurance, and vision care as provided for in Sections 13.1 through 13.4.1 for the period of reemployment.
13.9.6	Contract employees whose employment terminates on or following the last day of the school year and before the first day of the ensuing school year shall be covered by fully-paid health, dental, life insurance, and vision care as provided in Sections 13.1 through 13.4.1 until September 30 of the ensuing school year.
13.9.7	Non-contract, including permanent hourly, adult education teachers who are assigned fifteen (15) or more teaching hours per week, and which hours are anticipated to extend for one (1) or more semesters, will be provided fully paid health, dental, life insurance, and vision care as provided for in Sections 13.1 through 13.4.1.
13.9.8	The Board agrees to pay the medical insurance premiums for teachers who have retired on or after January 1, 1974, after reaching the permissive state retirement age, provided said employee has served ten (10) consecutive years of service in the District immediately prior to retirement, except that in calculating previous service an employee who resigns and is reemployed within one (1) year shall be counted. A Board-approved leave shall constitute a year of service for the purpose of eligibility for this benefit. This benefit shall continue to be available to an eligible surviving spouse, if the spouse opts to pay the premium for said benefit.
13.9.9	It is understood by the parties that those retirees electing to take advantage of the benefit provided in 13.9.8 and who retire after January 1, 1990 may pay the premium for the dental and/or life insurance and/or vision portion of the package themselves.
13.9.9.1	This benefit shall be available to the retired employee's spouse and dependents if the retiree opts to pay the premium for said benefit.
71
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
13.9.9.2
13.9.10
13.10
13.10.1
13.10.1.1
13.10.2
13.10.3
13.10.4
13.11
13.11.1
13.11.2
13.12
13.12.1
13.13
This benefit shall continue to be available to an eligible surviving spouse if the spouse opts to pay the premium for said benefit.
It is understood by the parties that it shall be the retiree's responsibility to make application for enrollment for the benefits described in 13.9.8 through 13.9.9.2. It is further understood that it shall be the District's responsibility, after consulting with the Association, to develop implementing procedures for the benefits described in 13.9.8 through 13.9.9.2.
Eligibility for Employee-Paid Insurance Benefits
Employees on Board-approved unpaid leave of absence shall continue to receive full coverage of insurance benefits through the District if they elect to remit by the first of the month for which coverage is to be provided, the necessary premium payment(s) for health and/or dental and/or vision and/or life insurance benefits.
Whenever a teacher goes on an unpaid leave after working 75% of the first semester, the District shall fully pay the fringe benefits through March 31 of the same school year.
Those employed on an hourly basis for at least one (1) semester not less than ten (10) hours per week and excluding summer school per session personnel shall be eligible for all fringe benefits available to contract employees if those employees elect to remit the complete premium payment to the District for such benefits.
Teachers retiring after five (5) years of service in the District who do not otherwise qualify for District-paid benefits shall have the option of maintaining group health benefits at their own expense.
Substitute teachers who have advanced to the highest substitute pay rate shall be entitled to employee-paid health, dental, and vision benefits subject to open enrollment requirements. Eligibility of substitutes is also subject to any pre-existing medical condition exclusions of the carrier plan selected. Substitutes must remit the complete premium payment to the District at a time specified by the District; payroll deduction for premium payment is prohibited.
Open Enrollment/Switching
There shall be an "open enrollment" period each year for everyone eligible unless prohibited by the health provider. In any year when no open enrollment is offered, there shall be a "switching" period during which time an active or retired teacher may change or amend his or her carrier and/or dependency status. During a designated "switching" period, active or retired teachers may change carriers but cannot add dependent status.
In the event that a health provider (i.e., medical, dental, vision, life, etc.) policy or plan is either terminated by the parties or cancelled by the providers, then a "switching" period may be implemented to facilitate the needs of the impacted unit members.
The District shall continue to pay health insurance premiums for the surviving dependents of a certificated Nonmanagement employee who dies while in service. The premiums will be paid for the balance of the school year in which the death occurs and the first six (6) months of the following school year.
When an employee has been diagnosed by a physician as having a terminal illness, the District shall continue to pay health benefits for the employee until his/her demise.
Flexible Reimbursement Account
The Board shall establish a Flexible Reimbursement Account under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code for each eligible employee requesting such an account. The Flexible Reimbursement Account will be operated and administered to be in compliance with all city, state and federal laws and regulations.
Each eligible employee shall be allowed to make an annual election to have their monthly compensation reduced by a specified amount for a deposit to their Flexible Reimbursement Account.
a.	Dependent Care: Up to $4,980 per year for use as allowed under Section 129 of the IRC.
b.	Health Care: Up to $4,000 per year for use in covering the unreimbursed deductibles,
co-payments, and co-insurance amounts under a group medical, dental, or vision benefits plan.
72
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
Each eligible employee requesting a Flexible Reimbursement Account will have their account charged with $3.00 per month administrative fee.
13.14	Total Compensation Funds
For 1990-91 and thereafter unless this section is deleted, funds required to pay annual health benefit cost increases under Sections 13.1.1 et al, shall be deducted from funds appropriated for the agreed upon total compensation increase. The balance of required funds shall be applied to the salary schedule in accordance with the specific agreement reached each year. This section shall prevail over the District contribution level specified in Article 13. This section is intended to survive the expiration of the Agreement and constitutes the status quo for 1990-91 and each year thereafter unless modified.
13.15	Health and Welfare Benefits Committee: The parties will consult in a committee regarding fringe benefits.
13.15.1	The District agrees to participate with employee representatives in a committee to study fringe benefit coverage.
13.15.2	The committee shall study all matters related to fringe benefits coverage and make recommendations regarding
feasibility and cost efficiency. Special emphasis shall be given to the value of "a broker of record" versus "a consultant service."
13.15.3	The committee shall be comprised of six members, three (3) of whom shall be appointed by SCTA and three (3) of whom shall be appointed by the District. In addition to the three (3) members, each appointing body shall appoint two (2) alternate committee members who can vote only upon the absence of the voting member(s). Alternate members may attend meetings and participate in discussions. The District and SCTA shall each have one vote.
13.15.4	Formal committee and subcommittee meetings and place of meetings shall be arranged and scheduled by the administrator, Employee Relations, and the chainman of the SCTA Committee. The committee and/or designated subcommittees shall meet as often as necessary to accomplish assigned tasks.
13.15.5	The committee and/or subcommittee shall develop an agenda and submit minutes for each meeting to officially designated District and bargaining unit representatives and to all committee members.
13.16	The parties agree to establish a committee consisting of four (4) members appointed by the District and four (4) members appointed by the Association to review retiree health benefits. The committee's recommendations shall be subject to negotiation. The parties will consult in a committee regarding fringe benefits for retirees.
13.17	Medical Costs
13.17.1	The Parties agree to form a joint committee to work on helping the parties respond over the long term to continuing increases in medical costs.
13.18	Unfunded Liability
The parties recognize the importance and value of health and welfare benefits and are concerned about rising costs and unfunded liability. The parties agree that every reasonable effort will be made to lower premium increases for current plans without diminishing benefits or increasing co-pays except as mutually agreeable. Any recommendations relative to working conditions will be subject to the CBA.
73
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 14	- PERSONAL AND ACADEMIC FREEDOM
14.1	The personal life of a teacher is not an appropriate concern of the Board except as it may directly prevent the teacher from performing properly his/her assigned function during the workday.
14.2	Teachers shall be entitled to full rights of citizenship, and no religious or political activities of any teacher, or the lack thereof, shall be grounds for any discipline or discrimination with respect to the professional employment of such teacher, providing said activities do not violate any local, state, or federal law.
14.3	The Board and the Association agree that academic freedom is essential to the fulfillment of the purposes of the Sacramento City Unified School District, and they acknowledge the fundamental need to protect teachers from censorship or restraint which interferes with their obligation to pursue truth in the performance of their teaching function.
14.4	Teachers shall have the right to discuss controversial issues, provided every effort is made to present all relative points of view and the use of partisan materials is in conformance with District policies relating to these matters.
14.4.1	Teachers shall be encouraged and entitled to maintain an atmosphere which is free and open for inquiry, personal input, and learning, and in which academic freedom for teacher and student is guaranteed.
14.4.2	Academic freedom shall be guaranteed teachers in the study, investigation, presentation and interpretation of facts and ideas concerning man, human society, the physical and biological world, and other branches of learning subject to accepted standards of professional responsibility with due regard to the maturity level of the student, District rules and policies, and the laws of the State of California.
14.5	Teachers shall be entitled to full rights of citizenship and no exercising of such rights shall be grounds for discipline or discrimination. The District recognizes that the personal life of an employee is not an appropriate concern of the District, except as it influences work performance.
14.6	A teacher has the right to become a candidate for political office and may take leave for such purpose as provided for in the leaves Article of this Agreement.
14.7	A teacher has the right and the duty to serve on a jury and may take leave for such purpose as provided for in the leaves Article of this Agreement.
14.8	When the teacher and the principal disagree as to the appropriateness of materials and/or outside speakers, the principal shall within three (3) working days reduce the reasons for disapproval to writing. The teacher then has the option of appealing the principal's decision through administrative channels.
14.9	The enumeration in this Agreement of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by those covered under this contract.
14.10	Administrative criticisms of an individual should be conducted in private conference and directed only to the teachers involved.
14.11	A teacher shall be notified within five (5) business days of any formal complaint(s) filed in accordance with the procedures specified in Board Policy II 8240.
14.12	The parties agree not to discriminate against any employee on the basis of ethnicity, creed, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, political affiliation, marital status, or membership in any employee organization.
74
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 15	- SUBSTITUTES
15.1
15.1.1
15.1.2
15.1.3
15.2
15.3
15.4
15.5
15.6
15.7
15.8
15.8.1
15.8.2
15.8.3
15.9
When teachers who teach regular classes are absent a substitute shall be provided when available.
All other teachers shall be provided substitutes when a qualified substitute is available who meets the specifications determined by the site administrator.
An adequate list of qualified substitutes will be maintained by the District's Personnel Services Office to fulfill these needs. The substitute list shall be opened whenever necessary to maintain an adequate supply of substitutes.
Secondary teachers can give up prep periods to work as substitutes. They will be paid for such time as set forth in Article 12.12. Each school site will develop reasonable plans for such assignments.
The District will provide an updated certificated substitute list, by segment, to each school twice per year. Teachers shall have the right to request a preferred substitute and wherever possible such a request will be honored. The principal or his/her designee shall have the responsibility to arrange for the substitute through the District office. Nothing in this policy will contravene the present District affirmative action program or affirmative action programs that may be developed in the future.
Substitutes will receive orientation whenever feasible.
Using the most reasonable methods, the District shall notify substitutes on the list when a change in substitute compensation or policies affecting substitutes occurs.
The site administrator will be responsible for providing substitute teachers with necessary schedules and orientation to facilitate their performance at the school. The regular teacher shall be responsible for ensuring that adequate materials, instructions, schedules and other pertinent information are available to enable substitutes to perform their jobs in an effective and reasonable manner.
The liaison committee, or other teacher appointed committee, shall determine the minimum basic information which a substitute would need in order to provide continuity of program in the event of teacher absence. The committee shall, with majority agreement of the staff, and the concurrence of the principal, implement recommended procedures for providing such information for substitutes.
Substitutes for summer school shall be paid at the appropriate per session rate.
Children's Centers
The assistant supervisor or designee shall be responsible for obtaining substitutes through the Personnel Services Office.
It shall be management's responsibility to maintain a list of substitutes qualified to serve in the Children's Centers.
Qualified substitutes shall be provided on the same basis as other teachers in the District.
The Personnel Services Office shall establish and enforce a ceiling on the number of substitutes allocated on any one (1) day for reasons other than illness or compelling personal importance. This ceiling shall be reviewed in consultation with the exclusive representative upon the request of either party.
75
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 16	- LIAISON COMMITTEE
16.1	In order to increase two-way communication between the teachers of a school or auxiliary services unit and the
administrator in charge, a Liaison Committee shall be established at each school or auxiliary services unit.
16.2	It is not the principal's responsibility to initiate procedures to establish the Liaison Committee.
16.3	The administrator in charge shall conference with such committee upon request on all matters within the scope of
his/her authority.
16.3.1	Meetings between the site administrator or administrative designee and the liaison committee must be held
within 10 days following the date on which a written request is made, unless an extension of time is mutually agreed to by both parties.
16.4	The site administrator shall, upon request of the liaison committee, communicate the reasons for such decisions rendered or actions taken on matters discussed in conference. Such rationale shall be provided in a timely manner and shall upon request be reduced to writing.
16.5	Items to be discussed by the Liaison Committee may include, but not be limited to, matters such as:
1.	Budget, equipment, supplies
2.	Appropriate assignment of certificated	personnel
3.	Policies regarding classroom interruptions
4.	Standards for student discipline and the implementation thereof
5.	Scheduling of the instructional day
16.6	The Liaison Committee shall be composed of non-administrative certificated personnel. The size of the committee shall be democratically determined by each school or certificated employee unit. Members of the committee shall be elected by the non-administrative certificated personnel.
16.7	The Liaison Committee shall have the authority to schedule its own staff meetings.
16.8	No reprisals of any kind will be taken by any local administrator, supervisor, coordinator or any administrative
designee against any employee for activities in connection with the Liaison Committee.
16.9	The Liaison Committee may refer unresolved problems through regular administrative channels if they so elect.
76
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 17	- CLASS SIZE
17.a
17.1
17.1.1
17.1.2
17.1.3
17.1.4
17.1.5
17.1.6
17.1.7
17.2
17.2.1
17.2.2
17.3
17.3.1
17.3.2
17.3.3
17.3.4
The District's goal is that all class size maximums will be met by the end of the first week of school with students in order to enhance the educational process. Schools unable to meet maximums by this time are not subject to any grievances. School administrators must communicate the reason(s) to their supervisors for inability to meet maximums.
The parties may agree to discuss other issues.
Elementary Class Size Limitations
At the kindergarten, the maximum class size shall not exceed thirty-two (32) students per teacher.
At grades 1-3, the maximum class size shall not exceed thirty-one (31) students per teacher.
At grades 4-6, the maximum class size shall not exceed thirty-three (33) students per teacher.
Instrumental music teachers will not be included in determining the staffing ratio in the elementary school.
The maximums established in Section 17.1 of this Article may be exceeded by mutual agreement between the site administrator and the affected teacher.
The District shall have 15 days at the beginning of each school year to adjust classes to meet the maximums established in 17.1.1 through 17.1.3. Thereafter, maximums in any class may be exceeded by no more than three (3) students and only for a cumulative total of five (5) school days during any school year as required to meet student needs.
When two or more classes of the same grade level(s) are housed at the same school site, the enrollment difference between the smallest and largest classes shall not exceed five except by mutual agreement of the site administrator and the teachers involved.
Special Subject Teachers
Special subject teachers shall provide release preparation time for no more than seventeen (17) qualifying teachers per week excluding him or herself. Qualifying teachers means grades 1 through 6 classroom teachers.
The maximum teacher load shall not exceed 190 students per day.
Secondary Class Staffing Formula
7th and 8th Grades
One (1) teacher per thirty-one (31) students enrolled; computed on third-month projected enrollment add one (1) teacher for all fractional remainders over 0.50.
9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th Grades
One (1) teacher per thirty-two (32) students enrolled; computed on third-month projected enrollment add one (1) teacher for all fractional remainders over 0.50.
Secondary staffing shall be based upon third-month projections.
The student/counselor* workload will be one (1) full-time counselor for each 375 students enrolled, based upon the projected third-month enrollment. Additional counseling service shall be provided on the basis of one (1) counseling hour for each sixty (60) students in excess of the 375/1 ratio, also based on the third-month projected enrollment. No more than fifty-nine (59) additional students shall be assigned to the total counseling staff at a school before additional counseling hours shall be provided, except by mutual agreement between the site administrator and the counselor(s). This provision shall be suspended for the school years 1992-93,1993-94 and 1994-95. During this period the staffing will be based on LOA-1-93-94, or as mutually agreed otherwise by the
77
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
parties. For the 1994-95 school year, there shall be 16 FTE counselors at the secondary level, such counselors to include those required by section 17.3.5 below.
17.3.5 The student/counselor* workload in continuation high schools and the opportunity school will be one (1) full-time counselor for each 150 students enrolled, based upon the third-month projected enrollment. This provision shall be suspended for the school years 1992-93, 1993-94 and 1994-95. During this period the staffing will be based on LOA-1-93-94, or as mutually agreed otherwise by the parties. *See Article 17.15.
17.4 Secondary Class Size Limitations
17.4.1	Adjustments to maximums must be made by the fourth week of the new school year. Adjustments during the school year are to be made after maximums have been exceeded for ten (10) consecutive days, after which the District has an additional 10-day period to take whatever action is necessary to alleviate the excess.
17.4.2	When two (2) or more sections of classes having the same course content are scheduled to meet during the same period, the enrollment difference between the smallest and the largest classes will not exceed five (5), except by a mutual agreement of the site administrator and the teacher(s) with a class(es) having an enrollment difference in excess of five (5).
17.4.3	Maximum class size in the areas of English, social studies, mathematics and science shall be thirty-five (35) students per period.
17.4.4	Maximum class size for proficiency and developmental classes shall be twenty (20) students per period. Staff allocation for proficiency classes shall be computed separately from the ratios shown in Sections 17.2.1 and 17.2.2 of this Article.
17.4.5	Class size maximums and/or maximum pupil loads shall be proportionate for teachers assigned to subject areas with and without maximums and/or with differing maximums.
17.4.6	The maximum teacher load in the secondary schools shall be limited to 170 pupil contacts per day. Exceptions to this maximum are permissible with mutual agreement between the teacher and principal. The requirements of this section are waived for Kit Carson Middle School because of special program requirements.
17.4.6.1	The maximum student load for physical education and music teachers beginning with the third school month will be 220.
17.4.6.2	The maximum student load for teachers of performance-based music classes shall be 220.
17.4.7	The maximum District average class size ratio for secondary ELL classes shall be 20:1 for levels I and II and 27:1
for other levels. Reasonable effort will be made to balance classes within the school. The District will share ELL class size information with SCTA. It is the intent that the District incur no additional cost.
17.5	In addition to the foregoing limitations, students shall not be regularly placed in a classroom in larger numbers than the capacity of the teaching facilities or basic work stations available where a student normally spends the majority of the class time performing the operational functions necessary to meet performance objectives and goals of the course.
17.6	Special Education Class Size Maximums
17.6.1	The class size maximums for special education shall be as specified by the California State Legislature and/or Department of Education except for the following limitations agreed upon by the parties.
a.	The maximum case load for each SDC/LD teacher at the elementary level shall be 15.
b.	The maximum case load for each SDC/LD teacher at the secondary level shall be 16.
c.	Adjustments to maximums set forth above at the elementary level must be made at	the beginning
of each school year within 15 days.
78
July 1,2004 - June 30, 2007
d.	Adjustments to maximums set forth above at the secondary level must be made by the fourth week of each new school year. Adjustments to case loads during the school year at the secondary level are to be made after maximums have been exceeded for ten (10) consecutive days, after which the District has an additional 10-day period to take whatever action is necessary to alleviate the excess.
e.	Case loads above the maximum during these "grace" periods set forth above are not violations of this Agreement and no penalty shall be imposed on the District for exceeding the maximums during these periods.
f.	In the event that the District assigns a case load above the applicable maximum outside of the "grace" periods set forth above, the District shall compensate the teacher involved at the rate of $20 per student per day above the maximum, up to a maximum of $90 per day. The District shall not exceed the maximum outside of the unfunded "grace" periods for more than 30 school days.
g. SH 1993-94
1 aide 14 students
2 aides 13 students (Elem.)
2 aides 14 students (Sec.)
(District held harmless for 1993-94.)
SH 1995-96
1 aide 13 students
2 aides 12 students (Elem.)*
2 aides 13 students (Sec.)*
* Subject to the percentage of students in SDC placement being 2.5% or lower of the K-12 population of the District.
17.6.2	Additional nursing time may be purchased by special projects and other categorical programs.
17.7	ESOL and Basic Education Class Size Limitations
17.7.1	Whenever the attendance in any given ESOL or basic education class reaches thirty-five (35) students for five (5)
consecutive days after the fourth week in any given quarter or semester, the site administrator will reduce the size of such class to twenty-five (25) by one of the following methods whenever possible:
a.	Move the excess students to another class.
b.	Hire additional personnel.
17.8	School Nurses*
17.8.1	The District shall maintain the present level of health services at a minimum of thirty-five (35) positions conditional upon the following:
a.	Maintenance of the present level of general funding.
b.	Constancy of categorical funding available for health services.
This provision shall be suspended for the school years 1992-93, 1993-94, and 1994-95. During this period the staffing will be based on LOA-1-93-94, or as mutually agreed otherwise by the parties.
*see Article 17.15
17.8.2	A study of scheduling and assignments shall be developed in conference with the health services supervisor and the School Nurse Advisory Committee.
17.8.3	Additional nursing time may be purchased by special projects and other categorical programs.
79
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
17.9
17.9.1
17.9.2
17.10
17.10.1
17.11
17.11.1
17.12
17.12.1
17.13
17.14
17.14.1
17.15
17.16
17.17
Speech and Language Specialists
The language, speech, and hearing specialists shall have no more than 70 students per week.
Sections 17.1.6 and 17.1.7 of this Article are understood to apply to the implementation of the above student/ speech and language specialist ratio.
Vocational Specialists
The case load for vocational specialists will be 125 students to one (1) specialist calculated on the ten-month average enrollment. For purposes of these calculations, each ROP student will count as one-half (1/2).
Children's Centers Nonmanagement Certificated Personnel
Children's Centers adult/student ratios shall be based upon ratios established by federal and state requirements.
Librarians*
There shall be one (1) librarian assigned to each secondary school except for the opportunity school. This provision shall be suspended for the school years 1992-93, 1993-94, and 1994-95. During this period the staffing will be based on LOA-1-93-94, or as mutually agreed otherwise by the parties. For the 1994-95 school year, there shall be 11-3/5's librarians, five (5) distributed among the five (5) largest high schools, and the remaining 6-3/5's distributed as mutually determined by the District and SCTA.
For the 1994-95 school year, an analytical study shall be conducted to determine how rapidly the District is able to adjust classes to meet the class size maximums. This study shall gather data at the end of each of the first three weeks of school. Findings shall be reported by November 1. *See Article 17.15.
Program Specialist
There shall be one Program Specialist for each 1100 special education students or fraction thereof. Each Program Specialist will have a caseload of 1000-1100 students.
The parties, in addition to the previous master collective bargaining agreement between them, were signatories to a Letter of Agreement dated September 29, 1992. The District pursuant to this Agreement has reinstated District programs to some extent. The parties agree that the District is under no obligation to employ added nurses, department chairs, librarians or counselors, except as may be specifically agreed by the parties subsequent to this Agreement. The District will not be required to hire more staff or restore the staffing requirements above current levels (as of June 3, 1996). It is the intent that the District incur no additional costs. This provision controls the following terms of the contract: 1.1,5.10.6, 12.9.9, 12.9.9.1, 17.3.4, 17.3.5, 17.8, and 17.12.
Pursuant to 1995-96 negotiations, a mini-fact-finding outside of the auspices of PERB and EERA will be convened to address class size. The results will be submitted to the parties for negotiation.
Intermediate Level Task Force
The parties agree to form a task force to study class size levels at grades 4, 5 & 6 at elementary schools.
The task force will begin on or before January 15, 2005, and shall provide a progress report to the parties by May 1, 2005. Recommendations are subject to mutual agreement of the parties.
80
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 18 - ORGANIZATIONAL RIGHTS
18.1
18.2
18.3
18.3.1
18.3.2
18.3.3
18.3.4
18.3.5
18.4
18.4.1
18.5
18.6
18.7
18.8
18.8.1
18.9
There shall be no reprisal of any member or leader because of organizational activity.
A full day of release time shall be provided each member of the bargaining team for negotiating sessions conducted during a required workday.
Members of the Association shall have access to members of the bargaining unit through:
Use of District mail services unless such use is held illegal by a court or administrative body. SCTA agrees to indemnify and hold District harmless from any fines, costs, and expenses incurred by the District in defending U.S. Code Section 1694.
Allocation of reasonable bulletin Board space which is easily accessible to members of the unit.
Assignment of a designated Association mailbox located with those of members of the bargaining unit at each site, when available.
The right to schedule and conduct meetings on District property providing such meetings do not interfere with the educational program and occur at times other than during the instructional day. This does not preclude the Association's representatives from meeting with unit members during their off-duty hours for purposes of consultation.
Access to school facilities according to provisions of the Civic Service Permit Act.
The District shall make available, upon written request by the Association, any information necessary and relevant to the exclusive representative's duty to represent unit employees. Every effort will be made to deliver such materials as promptly as possible.
The District shall at all times provide the Association president with a copy of the minutes of each meeting of any District-level committee or task force to which Association representatives have been assigned, or of any issued administrative bulletin or memorandum which affects any member of the bargaining unit. The Association president shall receive said copy at the same time as it is initially distributed.
The Board will provide the organization with a complete Board agenda and minutes at least forty-eight (48) hours before regular Board meetings.
Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all District members of the bargaining unit shall be provided to the Association as available. The Board shall provide subsequent updated lists as they become available.
Upon appropriate written authorization from the teacher, the Board shall deduct from the salary of any teacher and make appropriate remittance for the Association sponsored programs, annuities, credit union, charitable donations, or any other plans or programs jointly approved by the Association and the Board.
The District agrees to release not more than two (2) persons designated by the Association for not more than two (2) consecutive semesters to serve on Association business leave. The Association will reimburse the District in the amount of the average hiring-in salary plus the cost of fringe benefits including health, medical/dental/life insurance for each person released for this purpose. During this leave the designated person(s) will continue to be compensated by the District and will retain all rights and benefits as though in regular service.
The Association may elect to waive the right to purchase by reimbursement the medical/dental/life/vision insurance for one or both persons released. The agreed upon release contract between the parties would reflect such waiver.
Upon the Association's request, the superintendent will meet with Association representatives to review and discuss current school problems and practices and the administration of this Agreement. These meetings will take place at times of mutual convenience to the parties.
81
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
18.1	0 The second Thursday of each calendar month will be established as a professional Association meeting day for teacher involvement in the Association activities and professional meetings or committees. District personnel shall not schedule any after-school meetings on this day to which members of the bargaining unit will be expected to attend or might wish to attend if eligible.
18.1	1	Members of the unit whose service day extends beyond the teacher's service day may use compensatory time or
may reschedule their hours with the approval of their immediate supervisor to enable them to attend to verified Association business.
18.1	2 Employee Organizational Reports shall be placed among the first three (3) categories on the Board's agenda at each regular meeting of the Board. Topics to be included under this category shall be submitted at the superintendent's office no later than the Tuesday noon preceding the Board meeting. The time allotted the Association to discuss those items placed under Employee Organizational Reports shall not exceed fifteen (15) minutes for all items.
18.1	3 At the beginning of each school year, the Association shall be credited with fifty (50) days to be used by representatives of the Association for the purpose of meeting its obligations as an exclusive representative. Such days shall exclude those set aside elsewhere in this Agreement or the law for negotiations or grievance processing.
18.1	4 The Board shall consult with the Association on any matter requested by the Association, or on any District contemplated fiscal, policy, or program modification or improvement which has a potential for effect on any members of the bargaining unit. All such consultation shall be conducted under Board Regulations, "Consultation Process Under Senate Bill 160," adopted April 1977.
18.14.	1 Prior to implementation of the Teacher Trainee Program, the District and the Association agree to negotiate those matters not already covered in the Agreement relative to the Program (formerly Article 25).
18.14.	2 Prior to implementation of a year-round school plan, the District and the Association agree to negotiate those matters not already covered in the Agreement relative to the plan to the extent that such matters are within the legal scope of bargaining.
18.1	5 No teacher shall be prevented from wearing insignia, pins, or other identification of membership of the Association either on or off school premises.
82
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 19	- DISTRICT RIGHTS
19.1	The Board on its own behalf, and on behalf of the electors of the District, hereby retains and reserves unto itself, without limitations, all powers, rights, authority, duties and responsibilities conferred upon and vested in it by the laws and constitutions of the United States and the State of California, including but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the rights:
19.1.1	To determine and administer policy.
19.1.2	Subject to the provisions of the law, to hire all employees, to determine their qualifications and the conditions for
their continued employment, or their dismissal, demotion, or promotion.
19.1.3	To delegate to the superintendent and other legally appointed officers, the operation of the schools, the executive management and administrative control of the school system, its properties and facilities, including, but not limited to, innovative and experimental exploration in the field of education, experimental and innovative uses of District facilities and experimental and pilot investigation of new educational programs.
19.2	The exercise of the foregoing powers, rights, authority, duties and responsibilities, by the Board, the adoption of policies, rules and regulations, and practice in furtherance thereof, and the use of judgment and discretion in connection therewith shall be limited only by the specific and express terms of this Agreement.
83
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 20	- MENTOR TEACHER
20.1	Two selection committees shall be established to recommend mentor teacher candidates to the Board of Education. The selection committees will recommend alternates to the Mentor Teacher Program if there are more qualified candidates than authorized mentor teacher openings. One selection committee will choose candidates from the K-6 segment, the other committee will select candidates from the 7-12 and Adult segment. Each committee shall be eleven (11) members, each committee shall be comprised of six (6) teachers and five (5) administrators. The committee members shall select from their members a chairperson by a majority vote. The committees shall be called into session, thereafter, as need dictates, but always within one year of the last selection committee meeting. Vacancies on the committee may be filled as needed by the District or the Association.
20.1.1	The selection committees shall develop, adopt, and use such procedures as are appropriate to their tasks. The selection process shall include provisions for evaluating the effectiveness of former and current mentor teachers who are applying for selection.
20.1.2	The Selection Committee's process shall also include an effort to spread equitably mentors throughout the District's schools.
20.2	Any legally qualified classroom teacher may apply for mentor teacher status.
20.2.1	Persons seeking the position of mentor teacher shall meet each of the following qualifications:
a.	Is a credentialed classroom teacher with permanent status.
b.	Has substantial recent experience in classroom instruction.
c.	Has demonstrated exemplary teaching ability, as indicated by, among other things, effective communication skills, subject matter knowledge, and mastery of a range of teaching strategies necessary to meet the needs of pupils in different contexts.
d.	Has demonstrated the development of exemplary lesson planning based on goals, objectives, and classroom methodology.
e.	Is working as a classroom teacher for at least 75% of the time.
20.2.2	There shall be a proportionate relationship of mentor teachers relative to the number of teachers in each segment identified as K-6, and 7-12, and adult. If either segment cannot utilize its full share of mentor positions (slots) because there are fewer applications than available positions, the excess positions above the number of applications shall be assigned to the other segment committee. If any positions remain after both segments have completed their nominations, the District may institute a second selection process using the same selection committees to utilize the remaining positions after conducting a new application process. The same proportionate relationship shall be used in allocating the remaining positions.
20.3	The selection committees shall begin work not later than March 1 and shall complete their nominations not later than May 2 preceding the school year in which mentors are to begin terms of office. Modifications to the selection process timeliness may be made in years when the State Department of Education or the legislature modifies, reduces or increases funding. Any changes to the selection process timeliness will be approved by SCTA and the District.
20.3.1	Selection committee members shall be provided release time for observation and related evaluation activities. In addition, each SCTA bargaining unit member shall be compensated at the amount specified on Category F of the extra duty schedule for each year's round of mentor selection.
a.	However, if the chair is a teacher, he/she shall be paid at the rate of 1.5 times the amount of Category F and may allocate his/her addition .5 amount to teachers on the committee for extra work provided by such teachers.
84
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
b.	Teacher alternates shall be paid at his/her current per session rate for each hour beyond his/her service day as assigned by the chair. Such amount of pay shall be deducted from the Category F stipend of the regular mentor selection committee teacher for whom the alternate substituted.
c.	A half day of release (may, if required by the Committee Chair) be provided at the outset of the process for any necessary organizational and informational purposes.
d.	Unit member committee members shall be paid in full within one month of the completion of the selection process. Actual mileage pay will be reimbursed upon receipt of the appropriate forms.
20.3.1.	1 If selection committee meetings are to be held at times outside of the teacher's normal school day, the meetings are not to be scheduled until all teacher committee members have completed their normal school day with sufficient added time necessary for all teachers to reach the agreed upon meeting site. All teacher members of the committee shall be given the opportunity to share equally in remuneration for time served.
20.3.2	A mentor teacher candidate must give permission in writing before committee members may use pertinent personnel file entries in their selection process.
20.3.3	The Association shall select the teacher members of the selection committees.
20.3.3.1	It is agreed that if the Association has not appointed these committee members by January 1 preceding the school year in which mentor teachers are to begin terms of office, the District may implement a committee nomination and selection procedure to fulfill the provisions of this Agreement.
20.4	Persons designated as mentor teachers shall be responsible for developing a plan which may include duties and responsibilities in accordance with the following and subject to consultation and mutual agreement with the supervisor assigned by the superintendent or his designee:
a.	The primary function of a mentor teacher shall be to provide assistance and guidance to probationary and temporary teachers. A mentor teacher may also provide assistance and guidance to permanent teachers when the permanent teacher and site administrator mutually agree to that practice.
b.	Mentor teachers may provide staff development for teachers and may develop special curriculum.
20.4.	1 A mentor teacher shall not participate in the evaluation of teachers.
20.5	Mentor teachers must be allocated an annual stipend of no less than $4,312. This $4,312 must be over and above the regular salary to which the teacher is entitled. Payments shall be made in four (4) equal installments upon submission of appropriate pay claims approved by the mentor teachers' supervisor (contingent upon state funding).
20.5.1	The mentor support funds to support the activities of individual mentor teachers will be available to the mentor upon receipt of an appropriate request documenting the relationship of the proposed expenditures to that individual mentor plan.
20.6	If for any reason a mentor teacher is unable to complete the designated mentoring period, the Board of Education
may select a replacement from committee-nominated alternates.
20.6.1	Failure to prepare and submit a contract to the supervisor within 90 days after Board of Education approval shall mean that the mentor is unable to fulfill mentor responsibilities. The mentor teacher will be notified and an alternate mentor appointed.
20.7	All teachers selected in 1990 or thereafter will serve a two-year term plus an additional two-year term provided the mentor teacher fully meets, or has fully met, the agreed upon plan per 20.4. At the conclusion of the second two-year term, a mentor teacher will not be eligible to reapply for a period equivalent to one school year. At the conclusion of this one year hiatus, any former mentor teacher will be eligible to apply. The actual number selected in any one year may be affected by increases or decreases in state funding of the program, and/or by early termination or resignation from mentor teacher status.
85
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
20.7.1	Any disputes related to the mentor teacher plan between the mentor teacher and the supervisor shall be reviewed by a mentor peer committee. The rules and imposition for such committee shall be determined by the mentors at a staff meeting. Resolution of disputes shall be final and not subject to the grievance process per Article 4.
20.8	Hours of service outside the regular teaching day shall be determined by the assigned supervisor after consultation and mutual agreement with the mentor teacher. The maximum number of additional hours required shall be determined by dividing the stipend amount by the contract hourly rate for Class C, Step 14. Example: $165.49 (Class C, Step 14 daily rate) X .1538 equals $25.45. $4,000 (annual stipend) divided by 25.45 equals 157.17 hours.
20.8.1	The mentor teacher shall spend not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of his/her time in the direct instruction of pupils. "Direct instruction of pupils," except as it applies to resource teachers, shall be construed to require a mentor teacher to instruct his or her regularly assigned pupils.
20.9	The mentor teacher shall be reimbursed at the standard rate for each mile traveled on District business provided the teacher turns in the appropriate forms.
20.10	When the mentor teacher is released from his/her regular teaching assignment to perform duties and responsibilities associated with the mentor teacher program, he/she may request a substitute of his/her choice.
20.10.1	Any released time for the mentor teacher may not raise the student-teacher ratio of any other teachers.
20.10.2	No preparation time of any teacher shall be used to provide released time for a mentor teacher, except by mutual agreement of the affected teacher and the site administrator.
20.11	The mentor teacher shall maintain the confidentiality of all information related to the teachers for whom he/she may serve as mentor.
20.12	A mentor teacher shall not be exempt from regular transfer procedures because of mentor teacher designation. The designation, mentor teacher, is excluded as a "compelling" reason to maintain a teacher on a school site.
20.13	The continuance of the mentor program and the number of mentors to be selected each year is dependent upon the funding received by the District from the California State Department of Education for the Mentor Teacher Program.
20.13.1	All financial expenditures for the Mentor Teacher Program shall be confined to the allocations from the State Department of Education designated solely for the Mentor Teacher Program. There shall be no encroachment of the SB 813 Mentor Teacher Program on other District funds.
20.14	The Association and the District shall jointly develop a Mentor Program Contract that shall be signed by the mentor teacher and appropriate District administrator(s). Such contract form shall become part of this Agreement as an appendix.
86
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 21	- ORGANIZATIONAL SECURITY
21.1	Dues Deduction of Members
21.1.1	The right of payroll deduction for payment of organizational dues shall be accorded to the Association.
21.1.2	Any unit member who is a member of the CTA/NEA, or who has applied for membership, may sign and deliver to the District an assignment authorizing deduction of unified membership dues and initiation fees in the Association. Pursuant to such authorization, the District shall deduct one-tenth (1/10) of such dues from the regular salary check of the unit member each month for ten (10) months, or one-twelfth (1/12) of such dues for twelve (12) months, as appropriate. Deductions for unit members who sign such authorization after the commencement of the school year shall be appropriately prorated to complete payments by the end of the school year.
21.1.3	Association members who currently have authorization cards on file for dues deduction at the date of this Agreement need not be resolicited. Upon written request from the Association, Association dues and fees shall be increased or decreased without resolicitation and authorization from unit members provided such existing authorizations are legally sufficient.
21.2	Maintenance of Membership
21.2.1	The Association and the District agree that any unit member who is a member of the Association at the time this Agreement becomes effective, or who enrolls during the term of the Agreement, shall maintain such membership from year to year unless revoked in writing between July 1 and July 31 of the year in which this Agreement terminates.
21.3	Agency Fees
21.3.1	Any unit member who is not a member of the CTA/NEA, or who does not make application for membership within thirty (30) days of the operative date of this Article, or within thirty (30) days from the date of commencement of assigned duties within the bargaining unit, shall become a member of the Association or pay to the Association a fee in an amount authorized by Section 3540.1 (i)(2) of the Government Code and consistent with legal requirements. It shall be the sole responsibility of the Association to ensure that such fee is legally determined and legally appropriate.
The fee shall be payable to the Association in one lump sum cash payment within thirty (30) days from the date of commencement of assigned duties within the bargaining unit, or within thirty (30) days from the operative date of this Article.
In the event that a unit member does not pay such fee directly to the Association or qualify as an objector exempt from the fee, the Association shall so inform the District in writing certifying these facts and the correct amount of the fee owed. The District shall begin automatic payroll deduction as provided in Education Code Section 45061, subject to other legal constraints, and under the procedures set forth in Sections 21.1.2 and 21.4.2 of this Article. There shall be no charge to the Association for such mandatory agency fee deductions.
21.3.2	Any unit member who is a member of an organization, group, or religious body, whose traditional tenets, teachings, or integrated set of deeply held values include objections to joining or financially supporting employee organizations shall not be required to join or financially support SCTA/CTA/NEA; except that such unit member shall pay, in lieu of an agency fee, sums equal to such agency fee to a non-religious, non-labor organization, charitable funds exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such payment shall be made on or before the date required for a lump sum payment of agency fees in each school year.
21.3.3	Proof of payment of the charitable funds and a written statement of objection along with verifiable evidence of membership in an organization, group, or religious body, whose traditional tenets, teachings, or integrated set of deeply held values include objections to joining or financially supporting employee organizations pursuant to Section 21.3.2 above, shall be made on an annual basis to the Association and District as a condition of continued exemption from the provisions of Sections 21.1.2 and 21.3.1 above. Proof of payment shall be in the form of receipts and/or canceled checks indicating the amount paid, date of payment, and to whom payment in lieu of the service fee has been made. Such proof shall be presented on or before the date required for a lump sum payment of agency fees in each school year.
87
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
21.3.4	The District shall notify the Association when a unit member has complied with the filing requirements required by Section 21.3.3 as an exemption to the agency fee provisions. Such notice shall constitute the District's sole obligation with respect to unit members claiming an exemption. Thereafter, the Association may challenge the claimed exemption through pursuit of a small claims court action, or by initiating other legal action including use of the arbitration procedure contained in this Agreement. In any such proceeding, the District shall serve as a nominal party to ensure standing and to carry out the determination of the court or an arbitrator where a decision directs the District to withhold agency fees as provided in Section 21.3.1. During any such legal proceedings, Section 21.5.1 (hold harmless) shall be fully applicable.
21.3.5	Any unit member making charitable contributions as set forth in Sections 21.3.2 and 21.3.3 above, and who requests that the grievance or arbitration provisions of this Agreement be used in his or her behalf, shall be responsible for paying the reasonable cost of using said grievance or arbitration procedures.
21.4	General Duties
21.4.1	With respect to all sums deducted by the District pursuant to Sections 21.1.2 and 21.3.1 above, whether for membership dues or agency fees, the District agrees promptly to remit such monies to the Association accompanied by an alphabetical list of unit members for whom such deductions have been made, categorizing them as to membership or non-membership in the Association, and indicating any changes in personnel from the list previously furnished.
21.4.2	The District shall not be obligated to put into effect any new, changed, or discontinued deduction of membership dues or agency fees within this Article until the pay period commencing no less than fifteen (15) days after submission of the form to the District.
21.4.3	The Association agrees to furnish any information needed by the District to fulfill the provisions of this Article.
21.5	Hold Harmless and Indemnity
21.5.1	The Association agrees to pay the District all legal fees and legal costs incurred in defending against any court action and/or administrative proceeding challenging the legality of these agency fee provisions of this Agreement or their implementation. The Association agrees to pay any damage judgment rendered against the District as a result of these provisions contained in this Article or the District's implementation thereof.
The Association shall have the exclusive right to decide and determine whether any such action or proceeding referred to above shall or shall not be compromised, resisted, defended, tried, or appealed.
88
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 22	- PROFESSIONAL GROWTH PROGRAM RELATED TO THE REQUIREMENTS FOR RENEWAL OF CLEAR TEACHING CREDENTIALS
22.1	The Sacramento City Unified School District will implement the Professional Growth Requirements of Education Code Sections 44251 and 44277 which mandate that all new teachers who receive teaching credentials after August 31,1985, shall complete a minimum of 150 clock hours of professional growth as requirement for renewal of their teaching credential at five-year intervals. The same teachers shall also serve successfully in a certificated position, or its equivalency as determined by the Commission on Teacher Credentialing guidelines, for the equivalent of one-half of a school year during each five-year credential cycle.
22.2	In accordance with the Responsibilities and Rights of Employing Agencies, the following components are a part of the program.
22.2.1	Professional Growth Advisors must possess baccalaureate degrees and valid clear California teaching or services credentials. They shall also possess knowledge/abilities to perform responsibilities identified in the California Professional Growth Manual developed by the State Commission on Teacher Credentialing.
22.3	A list of Professional Growth Advisors, including their job site phone numbers, shall be provided to employees who possess a professional clear teaching credential.
22.3.1	The credential holder has the right to choose his/her own advisor from the above list of such advisors designated by the District. If a credential holder wishes an advisor, other than one designated by the District the credential holder may ask a responsible officer of another agency for permission to consult an advisor who is employed by that other agency or the credential holder may ask the Commission on Teacher Credentialing to approve a Professional Growth Plan or Record of Activities.
22.4	The District will verify that the credential holder has successfully served in a certificated position or another professional capacity for at least one-half of a school year during the five year renewal period.
22.4.1	The service must be rendered for at least five hours per day for at least ninety days, or the equivalent. For part-time employees and substitute teachers, equivalent service may be calculated by counting all hours rendered on behalf of students at the location of service.
22.4.2	The service must be rendered in a position that requires certification.
22.5	The District will implement procedures for verifying completing of successful service, and will provide for the
recording of appropriate data.
22.6	It is the responsibility of the credential holder to be familiar with the provisions of the California Professional Growth Manual, September 1985.
22.7	A clock hour for purposes of credited Professional Growth Activities shall be the actual time spent in the activity as defined in the "manual.” College, university or equivalent courses shall be credited as defined in the ’’manual.”
22.8	No professional growth advisor or other person shall compel a unit member to include any particular activities in his/her professional growth plan.
22.9	The credential holder is responsible for securing the program advisor's approval of the Professional Growth Plan and the certification of completed activities and must submit the certified form to the Personnel Services Office for recording of credit.
22.10	If a credential holder believes that his/her advisor has taken an action that he/she considers contrary to the terms of the Education Code, the credential holder may seek another advisor or appeal to the Commission on Teacher Credentialing for a final decision.
22.11	A unit member may amend a professional growth plan by adding, deleting or changing any of the original or previously amended goals or proposed activities, or professional growth advisor. The professional growth advisor shall initial an amendment to a professional growth plan that complies with State laws and regulations.
89
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
22.12	Advisors may approve only those professional growth plans where each activity fits one or more of the domains of professional growth in education as specified in the California Professional Growth Manual.
22.13	The District will remove any Professional Growth Advisor who has been determined by the District or the Commission to have willfully and arbitrarily violated the provisions of Education Code Section 44277 or Administrative Code Sections 80550 through 80565.
22.14	Following approval by the Professional Growth Advisor, each teacher is to submit a file copy of his/her Professional Growth Plan to the Personnel Services Office/Operations Department.
22.15	The District will discharge the foregoing responsibilities independently of any evaluation under the requirements of the Stull Act, and the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
22.16	A teacher’s progress on a Professional Growth Plan shall be assessed independently of the District's Performance Evaluation process. The evaluation processes shall not include reference to the teacher's Professional Growth Plan nor will the growth plan be used in the evaluation process.
22.17	Professional growth activities will qualify for training classification application for salary increments provided such activities meet the qualifications established in Article 12, Section 12.4 through 12.4.4 of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement between the District and the Sacramento City Teachers Association.
22.18	Implementation
22.18.1	For certificated personnel who received their preliminary or clear credential after January 1, 1989, this Professional Growth Program shall be implemented in the Fall Semester 1989 as provided herein.
22.18.2	For certificated personnel who received their credentials between September 1, 1985 and December 31,1988, this Professional Growth Program shall be implemented as provided herein except that the credential holder and his/her advisor may agree all such activities undertaken by the credential holder during the period of September 1, 1985, through December 31, 1988, shall be applied retroactively.
22.19	The parties agree that the teacher remains liable for knowing of, and satisfying of all relevant legal requirements. Advisors acting in good faith shall be held harmless as they participate in this process.
22.19.1	No bargaining unit member shall be required to serve as an advisor.
90
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 23	- CLASSROOM TEACHER INSTRUCTIONAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
23.1	The purpose of this Agreement is the implementation of the Classroom Teacher Instructional Improvement Program pursuant to Education Code Sections 44700-44705. If, during the terms of this Agreement, the legislature should modify Education Code Sections 44700-44705 or add sections to it, and such modifications(s) affect the provisions in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be reopened for negotiations.
23.2	The right of the District to participate in or not to participate in the Classroom Teachers Instructional Improvement Program shall not be restricted in any way by this Agreement.
23.3	Unit members applying for an instructional improvement grant to the Grant Committee must file an application on
the proper District-designed form(s). The District retains the right to prepare and utilize form(s), but prior to their adoption the District shall consult with the Association for the purpose of assuring compliance with this Agreement.
23.4	The Grant Committee shall have a simple majority of classroom teachers. The committee shall be composed of twelve (12) teachers and eleven (11) District-selected personnel, one of whom shall be a principal selected by the superintendent.
23.4.1	The Grant Committee shall establish procedures for the evaluation of grant proposals and for the use of grant funds by grant recipients.
23.4.2	The Grant Committee shall review eligible grant proposals and make recommendations to the Board concerning awards of instructional improvement grants.
23.4.3	The committee shall recommend to the Governing Board of the District a plan for the allocation of the District's funding entitlement for purposes of this chapter, taking into account the areas in the District with greatest need for instructional improvement.
23.4.4	The plan shall include the committee's recommendations for the funding of any grant proposal, and shall specify a grant amount not in excess of two thousand dollars ($2,000) per fiscal year for an individual recipient, or two thousand dollars ($2,000) per fiscal year for each eligible teacher participating in a group proposal.
23.4.5	Members of the Grant Committee shall not receive compensation for participation in Grant Committee activities,
except that teacher members may receive release time in order to attend meetings of the Grant Committee upon approval of the superintendent or his/her designee.
23.4.6	Members of the Grant Committee shall serve for two (2) years. The Grant Committee shall annually elect a chairperson from among the members of the Grant Committee. The chairperson shall schedule meetings after consultation with, and approval by, the superintendent or his/her designee.
23.5	Teacher members of the Grant Committee shall be elected by a vote of unit members in the District, conducted by the Association prior to October 1 of each school year.
23.6	The implementation of the Classroom Teacher Instructional Improvement Program is contingent upon the receipt of state funds for the program.
23.7	As a component of any grant, the grant applicant(s) should include the proposed dispensation of materials acquired or developed through the grant.
Equipment and/or support materials obtained through a grant shall remain with the grantee through his/her tenure with the District and shall then revert back to the District.
For grants to multiple grantees, the District shall decide the distribution of equipment and/or support materials, unless such distribution has been stipulated in the original grant proposal.
91
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 24	- SITE-BASED DECISION MAKING
24.1	Statement of Intent
The District and Association agree that it is in the best interest of the Sacramento City Unified School District to cooperatively engage in activities which will result in the improvement in the quality of the learning experience and learning outcomes of students through the development of common goals, a cooperative trusting environment and teamwork. It is agreed that actively and constructively involving all relevant stakeholders contributes significantly toward achieving these goals.
A site is used interchangeably to mean school and/or department.
24.2	Assistance
The District (Superintendent or designee(s)) and Association (President or designee(s)) are recognized as resources to the individual sites and are available upon request by the Site-Based Decision-Making Team (SBDMT) for assistance and support to help each site develop and/or implement a Site-Based Decision-Making Plan. The District Site-Based Decision-Making Committee will also be available for help and support when needed.
24.3	Purpose
The purpose of site-based decision-making teams is to participate in a collaborative decision-making, problemsolving process that seeks to improve the education of students and the quality of the workplace. The focus of site-based decision making shall be mission and student oriented, and data based. The measure of success for site-based decision making will be whether there is continuous improvement in student learning and in the working environment. The process empowers the stakeholders who are affected by a decision to participate in the problem-solving either directly or through their representatives, utilizing the consensus decision-making model.
24.4	Site Teams
Each stakeholder group shall be responsible for selecting their representatives on the SBDMT.
Bargaining unit members at each site are recognized as key stakeholders within the site-based process and as such shall be provided an opportunity to be active participants on the team. The composition of the SBDMT shall be determined by the stakeholders at each site, but in no case shall less than 50 percent of the SBDMT be bargaining unit members. Consensus is the accepted decision-making process for site teams.
24.5	Consensus Decision Making
Consensus is a process whereby each person in a decision-making group can resolve to agree with a decision, even though he/she may not be entirely satisfied with the resolution; it is the process of gaining mutual consent. By agreeing, he/she commits to supporting the resolution and refrains from sabotaging the implementation. Consensus decision are not made by voting. If consensus cannot be reached, the issue or solution shall revert to the status quo until a new, creative solution can be found.
24.6	Site Specific Amendments
It is not the intent of the site-based decision-making process to violate or change the contractual rights of unit members. If any aspect of a proposed plan is contrary to the terms of the collective bargaining agreement, an approval must be obtained from the Association and Board of Education. If such a variance is recommended by the SBDMT and approved as part of the site plan, and if approved by the District and Association policy for variances, it shall be part of the collective bargaining agreement for a specific period of time, for a specific work site and applied to all certificated members at the site.
92
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
24.7	Scope of Decision Making The District and Association agree to mutually develop and review as appropriate the scope of decisions for work sites that affect bargaining unit members and the role of other committees prior to the implementation of the decision-making process.
24.8	Conditions for Enabling Site-Based Decision Making The District and Association mutually agree to develop guidelines for training, incentives, etc., for bargaining unit members.
24.9	Bargaining Member Selection The SCTA shall be responsible for developing and applying the guidelines for selection of bargaining unit members who serve on the site teams.
24.10	District-Wide Steering Committee The District and SCTA agree to participate on a District-Wide Steering Committee that will help coordinate, implement, and support the process of site-based decision making. The composition and membership will be mutually agreed upon and will be proportionally constituted. The purpose of the District-Wide Steering Committee will be mutually agreed to by the membership of the committee.
93
July 1,2004-June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 25	- SUCCESSOR AGREEMENT
25.1	The parties hereto agree to enter into negotiations of a successor Agreement no later than one hundred and twenty
(120) days prior to the expiration of this Agreement. Any Agreement so negotiated shall be reduced to writing after ratification by the parties.
The Association agrees to submit its initial contract proposal no later than the first regular meeting of the Board of Education during the month of February of the year the contract expires.
94
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
ARTICLE 26 - DURATION
26.1
This Agreement shall be effective July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2007.
IN WITNESS HEREOF, the Association has caused this Agreement to be signed by its president, or the designee of the SCTA Board of Directors, and chief negotiator; and the Board of Education has caused this Agreement to be signed by its president, attested by its clerk.
SACRAMENTO CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SACRAMENTO CITY TEACHERS
ASSOCIATION
Date
Date
95
July 1,2004 -June 30, 2007
APPENDIX A
EVALUATION FORMS OF ALL MEMBERS OF THE CERTIFICATED NON-MANAGEMENT BARGAINING UNIT
[Copies of the appropriate forms can be obtained on-line via the District’s Intra-net web page or from the Personnel Services Office.]
APPENDIX A-l
Sacramento City Unified School District and Sacramento City Teacher Association
Certificated Teacher(Content Standard) Pre-Evaluation Conference Record
Teacher:  School Year: 
School:  Position/Assignment: 
The purpose of this document is to record the Evaluation of Teacher Performance Option being used for the evaluation process for the teacher indicated above.
Option One:
This evaluation instrument is used for all teachers in probationary and temporary status on an annual basis and every other year when in permanent status. The instrument reflects the six areas of the California Standards for the Teaching Profession and utilizes criteria that are observable, measurable, and applicable in all segments, kindergarten through adult education.
Status:	| | Temporary (Adult Ed.) | | 1st Year Probation | | 2nd Year Probation | | Permanent
Employee’s Signature
Signature of Principal or Administrator in Charge
D ate:_____________________________________
Date: _____________________________________
Option Two:
This evaluation instrument may serve as an alternative assessment for Highly Qualified Teachers wishing to choose the substance of the evaluation criteria for personal professional growth. This formative assessment must be focused on student achievement and relate to student learning and instructional strategies.
Qualifying teachers must have five years experience teaching in the district and two consecutive formal evaluations with all performance areas ranked as Consistent with Performance Standards or Exceeds Performance Standards. If referring to the previously used evaluation document, all performance standards are rated as 1 ’s and 2’s.
Employee’s Signature
Signature of Principal or Administrator in Charge
Date: _________________________________
Date: _________________________________
Agreement Allowed Per AB 954:
AB 954 allows for the evaluation and assessment of the performance of each certificated employee. . . at least every five years for personnel with permanent status who have been employed at least 10 years with the school district, are highly qualified, as defined in 20 U.S.C. Sec. 7801, and whose previous evaluation rated the employee as meeting or exceeding standards if the evaluator and certificated employee being evaluated agree. The certificated employee or the evaluator may withdraw consent at any time.
Eligibility criteria for AB 954: the teacher is a permanent employee with 10 years experience with the district, is a Highly Qualified Teacher, and met or exceeded the standards in the previous evaluation. There must be agreement between the principal and employee.
Beginning Date  Ending Date: 
Employee’s Signature  Date: 
Signature of Principal or
Administrator in Charge  Date:
01/18/05, Rev. A	PSL-F106	Page 1 of 1
Sacramento City Unified School District
Teacher:
Certificated Teacher (Content Standard) Option 1 Formative/Summary Evaluation Confidential
School Year:
School:	 Position/Assignment: 
Status:
Temporary (Adult Ed.)
1st Year Probation
2nd Year Probation
Permanent
The purpose of this instrument is to recognize teacher performance and support the teacher’s professional growth. This instrument honors the SCTA contract.
The Evaluator will check the category that characterizes the teacher’s performance in each area below. Comments and suggestions for each area are encouraged.
TEACHER PERFORMANCE AREAS	Exceeds Performance Standards	Consistent With Performance Standards	Working to Meet Performance Standards	Does Not Meet Performance Standards
1. Engages and supports all students in learning by using a variety of instructional strategies to respond to students’ diverse needs.				
Comments:				
2. Creates and maintains effective environments for student learning by planning and implementing classroom procedures and routines that support student learning and positive behaviors.				
Comments:				
3. Understands and organizes subject matter by using district provided curriculum/materials and/or standards aligned resources to make subject matter accessible to all students.				
Comments:				
4. Plans instruction and designs learning experiences for all students by sequencing instructional activities and materials for student learning.				
Comments:				
5. Assesses and evaluates student learning to guide instruction, and communicates progress with students, families, and appropriate staff.				
Comments:				
6. Contributes to the teaching and learning environment by fulfilling extra duties as assigned, attending required meetings, maintaining resources and equipment, and assisting in maintaining acceptable student behavior outside of classroom.				
Comments:				
01/18/05, Rev. A
PSL-F107
Page 1 of2
Recommendations for Professional Goals:
Specific Recommendations Made to Employee for Improving Performance (required for any employee who is not meeting performance standard in any area): If the fourth column from the teacher performance areas is checked, the evaluator must indicate what areas do not meet performance standards. The evaluator and teacher shall develop an improvement plan following the evaluation addressing those areas needing improvement.
Commendations:
Recommendation: I recommend this employee be:
 Continued in the service of the district.
___________ Reassigned ____________________________________________________________________________________________________
 Released from the service of the district.
Check here if additional material is submitted as part of this evaluation report.
Signature of Principal or Administrator in Charge
Date
Employee’s Acknowledgment:
I have read this report, but my signature does not necessarily signify agreement. I understand that any written statement I wish to make regarding this report will be attached to all copies of it. It is understood that I am accountable only to the extent that I have control over the factors which contribute to the reaching of these goals and objectives.
Employee’s Signature
Date
Witness’s Verification (to be used if employee is unwilling to sign): I certify that a copy of this report was presented to the employee named on the first page on (date).
Witness Signature
01/18/05, Rev. A
PSL-F107
Page 2 of 2
Sacramento City Unified School District
Certificated Teacher(Content Standard) Option 2 Plans to Achieve Student Progress/Professional Growth Goal Setting Confidential
Teacher:
School:
School Year: ___________________
Grade(s)/Subject Assigned: ____________________________________________________________________________________________________
PART I - TEACHER COMPLETES PRIOR TO PRE-CONFERENCE
I 1. Please list three goal(s) and how they relate to student learning and instructional strategies.
1.
2.
3.
2.	Describe how you will evaluate the effects of your professional growth plan on student learning.
3.	Plan for at least two interactions with peers and/or administrators to get feedback, present a demonstration or other product of the professional growth agreed upon.
4.	Establish benchmark and agreed upon approximate dates for conferences with your administrator.
Teacher’s Signature
Date
Evaluator’s Signature
Date
01/18/05, Rev. A
PSL-F108
Page 1 of2
PART II - TEACHER COMPLETES PRIOR TO FINAL CONFERENCE
1.	Evaluate the extent and degree to which you accomplished your goal(s) as set forth in Goals Form.
2.	Write a short reflective statement indicating how this evaluation year enhanced your professional growth.
3.	Explain how the project impacted student learning.
4.	Share your plans for subsequent growth related to teaching and learning.
Teacher’s Signature
Evaluator’s Signature
Date
Date
Evaluator may attach Recommendations for Professional Goals and Commendations:
01/18/05, Rev. A
PSL-F108
Page 2 of 2
APPENDIX B-l
SACRAMENTO CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
K-12 and Preschool Teachers' Salary Schedule, 2004-05
(Based Upon 184 Teachers' Service Days *****)
(Effective Approximately July 1, 2004)
This schedule is applicable to school nurses, audiometrists, counselors, student activities advisors, librarians, vocational specialists, training specialists, department chairpersons, language, speech and hearing specialists, as well as K-12 and preschool teachers, including resource and specialist teachers, and excepting children's center teachers and nurses, and adult education personnel.
	CLASS A	CLASS B	
	BA Degree	BA + 45 Semester Units OR Master’s Degree	
Steps	Daily	Per Annual Rate Session	Daily	Per Annual Rate Session	Steps
1 2 3 4 5 6 7	$36,408 $197.86 $33.71 $36,572 $198.77 $33.86 $36,742 $199.69 $33.89 $36,908 $200.58 $33.89 $37,835 $205.62 $33.89 $39,223 $213.16 $33.89 $40,611 $220.72 $33.89	$36,408 $197.86 $33.71 $36,572 $198.77 $33.86 $36,742 $199.69 $33.89 $37,835 $205.62 $33.89 $39,501 $214.69 $33.89 $41,170 $223.75 $33.89 $42,844 $232.84 $33.89 $44,515 $241.92 $33.89	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
8	$42,007 $228.30 $33.89		
9 10 11 12 13 14	▼		$46,180 $250.98 $33.89	9
		$47,849 $260.04 $33.89 $49,520 $269.12 $33.89 $51,550 $280.17 $33.89	10 11 12 13-16 17-26
	Maximum placement | 	on entrance	,		
Persons assigned to teach in positions requiring any of the credentials listed below shall be placed no lower than Class B if they hold a B.A. and have fulfilled all requirements for such credentials. If all requirements of such credentials have not been fulfilled, or if individuals do not hold B.A. degrees, they shall be placed no lower than Class A; Vocational Class A, B, or D; Designated Subjects Credential with Specialization in Vocational Trade and Technical Teaching; and Designated Subjects Credential in Industrial Arts and Vocational Subjects and ROTC instructors. Advancement to Class C requires the fulfillment of all requirements for that class.
NOTE: An additional $1,061 is added to the annual for the earned doctorate and is pro-rated if for less than a full year.
	CLASS C***	CLASS D ****	CLASS E	
		BA + 90 Semester Units	(See Contract for	
	BA + 75 Semester Units	MA/Alt + 35 Semester Units	Complete Requirements)	
	MA + 24 Semester Units	BA + 75 Semester Units	BA + 90 With MA (Eff 5-1-98)	
	Alternate to Master's	including MA/Alternate	BA + 103 Units (Eff 7-1-98)	
	Daily	Per	Daily	Per	Daily	Per	
Steps	Annual Rate Session	Annual Rate Session	Annual Rate Session	Steps
1	$36,408 $197.86 $33.71	$38,227 $207.74 $33.89	$40,140 $218.15 $33.89	1
2	$36,612 $198.97 $33.89	$38,442 $208.92 $33.89	$40,364 $219.36 $33.89	2
3	$38,389 $208.64 $33.89	$40,309 $219.08 $33.89	$42,324 $230.03 $33.89	3
4	$40,338 $219.23 $33.89	$42,354 $230.19 $33.89	$44,474 $241.71 $33.89	4
5	$42,284 $229.80 $33.89	$44,400 $241.30 $33.89	$46,619 $253.37 $33.89	5
6	$44,235 $240.40 $33.89	$46,446 $252.43 $33.89	$48,769 $265.05 $33.89	6
7	$46,180 $250.98 $33.89	$48,490 $263.53 $33.89	$50,914 $276.70 $33.89	7
8	$48,130 $261.58 $33.89	$50,536 $274.65 $33.89	$53,065 $288.40 $33.89	8
9	$50,076 $272.15 $33.89	$52,580 $285.76 $33.89	$55,208 $300.04 $33.89	9
10	$52,023 $282.73 $33.89	$54,623 $296.88 $33.89	$57,355 $311.71 $33.89	10
11	$53,971 $293.31 $33.89	$56,670 $307.99 $33.89	$59,503 $323.39 $33.89	11
12	$55,918 $303.90 $33.89	$58,714 $319.10 $33.89	$61,648 $335.05 $33.89	12
13	$58,310 $316.90 $33.89	$61,224 $332.73 $33.89	$64,286 $349.37 $33.89	13
14	$61,603 $334.79 $33.89	$64,683 $351.55 $33.89	$67,918 $369.12 $33.89	14
17	$63,267 $343.84 $33.89	$66,431 $361.04 $33.89	$69,752 $379.08 $33.89	17
20	$64,933 $352.90 $33.89	$68,180 $370.54 $33.89	$71,588 $389.06 $33.89	20
23	$67,877 $368.90 $33.89	$71,272 $387.34 $33.89	$74,834 $406.70 $33.89	23
26			$77,367 $420.47 $33.89	26
	Steps 17, 20, 23 and 26 are longevity steps.			
Secondary teachers who give up prep periods to work as substitutes will be paid at the pro-rated (one-fifth) higher substitute rate. Secondary teachers who work block schedules will be paid at the appropriate pro-rated higher substitute pay.
***Maximum entry level for new teachers.
****With hire date after 1-1-91 and brought in at Class C, 15 semester units must be earned after hire date.
*****lncludes additional 3 days /18 hours for staff development.
Category *	Daily	Hourly
Curriculum Rate	$103.26	$17.21
Staff Training Stipend	$61.75	$10.30
Summer Sch Per Session Rate		$35.03
Day-by-Day Substitute Teachers’ Salary Schedule **
Step 1:	$89.74 for each full day of substitute service up to
and including the 5th day.
Step 2:	$136.47 for each full day after the 5th day.
This salary schedule reflects a 1.75% increase in compensation.
SCTA 04-05 K-12 & Pre-SS A-WEB
Salary Schedule T/N; * Salary Schedule TSN; ** Salary Schedule TX/N
APPENDIX B-l(a)
SACRAMENTO CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
K-12 and Preschool Teachers' Salary Schedule, 2004-05
(Based Upon 184 Teachers' Service Davs *****)
(Effective Approximately July 1, 2004)
This schedule is applicable to school nurses, audiometrists, counselors, student activities advisors, librarians, vocational specialists, training specialists, department chairpersons, language, speech and hearing specialists, as well as K-12 and preschool teachers, including resource and specialist teachers, and excepting children's center teachers and nurses, and adult education personnel.
	CLASS A			CLASS B			CLASS C*“			
	B.A. Degree			B.A. + OR	45 Semester Units Master's Degree		B.A. + 75 Semester Units M.A. + 24 Semester Units Alternate to Master's			
Steps	Annual	Daily Rate	Per Session	Annual	Daily Rate	Per Session	Annual	Daily Rate	Per Session	Steps
1	$37,321	$202.83	$33.89	$37,323	$202.84	$33.89	$37,324	$202.84	$33.89	1
2	$37,323	$202.84	$33.89	$37,324	$202.84	$33.89	$37,325	$202.85	$33.89	2
3	$37,324'	$202.84	$33.89	$37,325	$202.85	$33.89				3
4	$37,325	$202.85	$33.89							4
Secondary teachers who give up prep periods to work as substitutes will be paid at the pro-rated (one-fifth) higher substitute rate.
Secondary teachers who work block schedules will be paid at the appropriate pro-rated higher substitute pay.
***Maximum entry level for new teachers.
****With hire date after 1-1-91 and brought in at Class C, 15 semester units must be earned after hire date.
*****lncludes additional 3 days /18 hours for staff development.
Persons assigned to teach in positions requiring any of the credentials listed below shall be placed no lower than Class B if they hold a B.A. and have fulfilled all requirements for such credentials. If all requirements of such credentials have not been fulfilled, or if individuals do not hold B.A. degrees, they shall be placed no lower than Class A; Vocational Class A, B, or D; Designated Subjects Credential with Specialization in Vocational Trade and Technical Teaching; and Designated Subjects Credential in Industrial Arts and Vocational Subjects and ROTC instructors. Advancement to Class C requires the fulfillment of all requirements for that class.
NOTE: An additional $1,061 is added to the annual for the earned doctorate and is prorated if for less than a full year.
Category *	Daily	Hourly
Curriculum Rate	$103.26	$17.21
Staff Training Stipend	$61.75	$10.30
Day-by-Day Substitute Teachers' Salary Schedule **
Step 1: $89.74 for each full day of substitute service up to and including the 5th day.
Step 2: $136.47 for each full day after the 5th day.
This salary schedule is for fully-credentialed teachers and is also part of the B-1 salary schedule.
This salary schedule reflects a 1.75% increase in compensation.
SCTA 04-05 K-12 & Pre-Cred-184-WEB
Salary Schedule TM-A/D * Salary Schedule TS; ** Salary Schedule TX
APPENDIX B-2
SACRAMENTO CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
Extra Pay for Extra Duty Schedule, 2002-03 and 2003-04 (Effective Approximately October 16, 2001)
CATEGORY A = $3,368	CATEGORY B = $2,922	CATEGORY C = $2,476
Agriculture Baseball (H, V, M) Basketball (H, V, M) Basketball (H, W) Department Chairperson (80 Sections or More) Football (H, V, M) Wrestling (H, V, M) Track * (H, V, M,W)	Athletic Director HS Band Director Baseball (S, M) Basketball (S, M) Cross-Country** Department Chairperson (65 Sections or More) Drama Football (S, M) Football (V, A, M) Newspaper Advisors Softball (H, W) Speech/Debate Student Body Activity Advisor HS Track* (H.V, M) (H, V, W) Volleyball (H, W) Yearbook	Baseball (F, M) Basketball (F.M) Basketball (S, W) Cross-Country (M, W) Department Chairperson (45 Sections or More) Football (F, M) Golf (M, W) Gymnastics (M, W) Soccer (M, W) Softball (S, W) Swimming*** (H, M, W) Track* (A) Volleyball (S, W) Wrestling (A)
CATEGORY D = $2,029	CATEGORY E = $1,583	|	CATEGORY F = $701		
Baseball (B) JH/MS Basketball (B, G) JH/MS Basketball (F, W) Broadway Musical Director Cross-Country (B, G) JH/MS Cross-Country (F, M, W) Department Chairperson (44 Sections or Less) Gymnastics (B, G) JH/MS Mathletes Soccer (F, W) Soccer (F, M) Softball (F, W) Softball (G) JH/MS Spirit Advisors (HS) Student Body Activity Advisor MS Swimming *** (A) Tennis (M, W) Track (B, G) JH/MS Track (F, M, W) Vocal Music Volleyball (G) JH/MS Water Polo Wrestling (F, M)	All-City Band All-City Choir All-City Orchestra Assistant Broadway Musical Director Orchestra	Head Teacher- Elementary, Children's Center, Preschool Intramurals (B, G) JH/MS Mentor Selection Committee Members		
			Abbreviation Key A = Assistant B = Boys F = Freshman G — Girls H = Head HS = High School M = Men S = Sophmore V = Varsity W = Women JH = Junior High MS = Middle School	
				
* Schools may opt to have two (2) head coaches in Category B and one (1) assistant in Category C, or one (1) head coach in Category A and two (2) assistants in Category C. (In no case shall a coach be placed in Category A unless he/she has full responsibility for both men's and women's track programs.)
Cross-Country coaches must participate in one (1) meet per week for a minimum of 12 weeks and field the total program (V, S, and W) to be eligible for Category B.
** Swimming: Schools may opt to have two (2) head coaches or one (1) head coach and one (1) assistant coach.
SCTA 02-04 Oct Extra Pay-WEB
Stipend Table XP; ‘Salary Schedule HT
APPENDIX B-3
SACRAMENTO CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
Non-Management Specialists' Salary Schedule, 2004-05
	PSYCHOLOGISTS * (Based Upon 198 Service Days ***) (Effective Approximately July 1, 2004)			
	CLASS X	CLASS Y	CLASS YY (See Contract for Complete Requirements) BA + 90 With MA (Eff 5-1-98) BA+103 Units (Eff. 7-1-98)	
	Daily	Daily	Daily	
Steps	Annual Rate Hourly	Annual Rate Hourly	Annual Rate Hourly	Steps
1	$55,991 $282.78 $35.35	$58,791 $296.92 $37.11	$61,732 $311.78 $38.98	1
2	$58,785 $296.89 $37.11	$61,724 $311.73 $38.97	$64,810 $327.31 $40.91	2
3	$61,730 $311.77 $38.98	$64,816 $327.36 $40.92	$68,058 $343.73 $42.96	3
4	$64,813 $327.35 $40.91	$68,054 $343.70 $42.96	$71,457 $360.89 $45.11	4
5	$68,053 $343.69 $42.96	$71,456 $360.88 $45.11	$75,028 $378.94 $47.36	5
17	$70,262 $354.86 $44.35	$73,775 $372.61 $46.57	$77,463 $391.23 $48.90	17
20	$71,924 $363.25 $45.41	$75,522 $381.42 $47.68	$79,297 $400.49 $50.06	20
23	$75,007 $378.82 $47.35	$78,758 $397.76 $49.72	$82,694 $417.65 $52.21	23
26			$85,227 $430.44 $53.80	26
	Steps 17, 20, 23 and 26 are longevity steps.			
	PROGRAM SPECIALISTS AND SOCIAL WORKERS ** (Based Upon 193 Service Davs ***) (Effective Approximately July 1, 2004)			
	CLASS W	CLASS Z	CLASS ZZ (See Contract for Complete Requirements) BA + 90 With MA (Eff. 5-1-98) BA+103 Units (Eff. 7-1-98)	
	Daily	Daily	Daily	
Step	Annual Rate Hourly	Annual Rate Hourly	Annual Rate Hourly	Steps
1	$53,454 $276.96 $34.62	$56,128 $290.81 $36.36	$58,933 $305.34 $38.18	1
2	$56,130 $290.82 $36.36	$58,935 $305.37 $38.18	$61,883 $320.63 $40.09	2
3	$58,932 $305.34 $38.18	$61,879 $320.61 $40.08	$64,972 $336.65 $42.07	3
4	$61,885 $320.64 $40.09	$64,980 $336.68 $42.07	$68,228 $353.51 $44.19	4
5	$64,978 $336.67 $42.07	$68,226 $353.50 $44.19	$71,638 $371.17 $46.40	5
17	$66,883 $346.54 $43.31	$70,228 $363.88 $45.48	$73,739 $382.06 $47.76	17
20	$68,552 $355.19 $44.40	$71,979 $372.95 $46.61	$75,578 $391.60 $48.95	20
23	$71,564 $370.80 $46.35	$75,142 $389.34 $48.68	$78,899 $408.80 $51.11	23
26			$81,433 $421.92 $52.75	26
	Steps 17, 20, 23 and 26 are longevity steps.			
***lncludes additional 3 days / 24 hours for staff development.
Note: An additional $1,061 is added to the annual for the earned doctorate and is pro-rated if for less than a full year
This salary schedule reflects a 1.75% increase in compensation.
SCTA 04-05 Spec-WEB
* Salary Schedule S/N
Salary Schedule S1/N
APPENDIX B-4
SACRAMENTO CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
Adult Education Teachers' Salary Schedule, 2004-05
(Based Upon 177 Teachers' Service Days) (Effective Approximately July 1, 2004)
This schedule is applicable to adult education teachers, resource teachers, counselors, and librarians.
	CLASS I	CLASS II		CLASS III		
	BA or Less	BA+ 1	5 Semester Units	BA + 3C	) Semester Units	
	Daily Per		Daily	Per		Daily	Per	
Steps	Annual Rate Session	Annual	Rate Session	Annual	Rate Session	Steps
1	$27,085 $153.03 $25.09	$28,708	$162.19 $26.58	$30,335	$171.39 $28.09	1
2	$28,437 $160.67 $26.33	$30,060	$169.84 $27.84	$31,957	$180.55 $29.59	2
3	$29,791 $168.30 $27.58	$31,414	$177.48 $29.09	$33,588	$189.76 $31.10	3
4	$31,145 $175.96 $28.84	$32,772	$185.14 $30.35	$35,207	$198.91 $32.59	4
5	$32,499 $183.61 $30.08	$34,127	$192.81 $31.60	$36,831	$208.08 $32.84	5
6		i		$35,476	$200.42 $32.84	$38,185	$215.72 $32.84	6
7	Maximum placement			$39,540	$223.39 $32.84	7
8	on entrance \/			$40,896	$231.03 $32.84	8
9-14						9-14
17-23						17-23
	CLASS IV	CLASS V	
	BA + 45 Semester Units or Master's Degree	BA + 75 Semester Units MA + 24 Semester Units Alternate to Master’s	
	Daily	Per	Daily	Per	
Steps	Annual Rate Session	Annual Rate Session	Steps
1	$31,957 $180.55 $29.59	$33,588 $189.76 $31.10	1
2	$33,588 $189.76 $31.10	$35,476 $200.42 $32.84	2
3	$35,207 $198.91 $32.59	$37,372 $211.14 $32.84	3
4	$36,831 $208.08 $32.84	$39,270 $221.86 $32.84	4
5	$38,459 $217.29 $32.84	$41,166 $232.57 $32.84	5
6	$40,082 $226.45 $32.84	$43,069 $243.34 $32.84	6
7	$41,711 $235.65 $32.84	$44,956 $253.99 $32.84	7
8	$43,338 $244.83 $32.84	$46,854 $264.71 $32.84	8
9	$44,956 $253.99 $32.84	$48,749 $275.43 $32.84	9
10	$46,582 $263.19 $32.84	$50,645 $286.14 $32.84	10
11	$48,206 $272.35 $32.84	$52,540 $296.84 $32.84	11
12	$50,184 $283.54 $32.84	$54,437 $307.55 $32.84	12
13		$56,766 $320.71 $32.84	13
14		$59,502 $336.17 $32.84	14
17		$60,601 $342.39 $32.84	17
20		$61,706 $348.64 $32.84	20
23		$62,807 $354.85 $32.84	23
		Steps 17, 20 and 23 are	
		longevity steps.	
Persons assigned to teach in positions requiring any of the credentials listed below shall be placed no lower than Class IV if they hold a B.A. and have fulfilled all requirements for such credentials. If all requirements of such credentials have not been fulfilled, or if individuals do not hold B.A. degrees, they shall be placed no lower than Class III; Vocational Class A, B, or D; Designated Subjects Credential with Specialization in Vocational Trade and Technical Teaching; and Designated Subjects Credential in Industrial Arts and Vocational Subjects and ROTC instructors. Advancement to Class V requires the fulfillment of all requirements for that class.
NOTE: An additional $1,041 is added to the annual for the earned doctorate and is pro-rated if for less than a full year.
Category *	Daily	Hourly
Curriculum Rate	$101.33	$16.89
Staff Training Stipend	$60.61	$10.10
Day-by-Day Substitute Teachers’ Salary Schedule **
Step 1:	$89.74 for each full day of substitute service up to
and including the 5th day.
Step 2:	$136.47 for each full day after the 5th day.
Salary Schedule R/N ‘Salary Schedule AS/N “Salary Schedule TX/N
SCTA 04-05 Ad Ed-WEB
This salary schedule reflects a 1.75% increase in compensation.
APPENDIX B-5
SACRAMENTO CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
Hourly Adult Education Teachers' Salary Schedule, 2004-05 (Effective Approximately July 1, 2004)
This schedule is applicable to all Adult Education certificated hourly employees employed in Adult Education for the first time after May 1, 1987.
	CLASS H-1	CLASS H-2	CLASS H-3	
	B.A. or Less	B.A. + 15 or More Units	B.A. + 30 or More Units (Permanent Teachers Only)	
Steps	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate	Steps
1	$24.10	$25.56		1
2	$25.31	$26.77		2
3	$26.54	$27.96	$29.90	3
4	$27.72	$29.18	$30.38	4
5	$28.93	$29.90	$31.13	5
6		$30.38	$31.57	6
7		$31.57	$31.57	7
8			$31.57	8
All Adult Education teachers shall be placed on either Class H-1 or H-2 prior to achieving permanency (as defined in 5.12.10.2.3.). Upon achieving permanency, such teachers shall be placed on the appropriate step of Class H-3 providing that he/she meets the educational requirement of B.A. and thirty (30) or more verified units.
This salary schedule reflects a 1.75% increase in compensation.
SCTA 04-05 Hrly Adlt-WEB
Salary Schedule R1/N
APPENDIX B-6
SACRAMENTO CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
Certificated Non-Management Children's Center Personnel Salary Schedule, 2004-05 (Based Upon 223 Service Days) (Effective Approximately July 1, 2004)
	CLASS A				CLASS B			CLASS C			
	0 -59 5	semester Units			60 - 89 : Includin'	Semester Units g 8 in Child Care		BA or 90 Semester Units Including 12 in Child Care			
Steps	Annual	Daily Rate	Hourly		Annual	Daily Rate	Hourly	Annual	Daily Rate	Hourly	Steps
1	$24,232	$108.67	$13.57		$25,883	$116.08	$14.52	$27,532	$123.45	$15.44	1
2	$25,608	$114.82	$14.35		$27,258	$122.21	$15.27	$28,911	$129.64	$16.20	2
3	$26,986	$121.01	$15.12		$28,636	$128.41	$16.06	$30,289	$135.84	$16.97	3
4	$28,364	$127.19	$15.89		$30,016	$134.61	$16.83	$31,664	$141.98	$17.75	4
5	$29,741	$133.35	$16.66		$31,396	$140.78	$17.60	$33,040	$148.16	$18.52	5
6 7 8 11	r i	 / \ Maximum placement on entrance k.	 	) $31,100 $139.46 $17.4			3	$32,754	$146.90	$18.38	$34,401	$154.25	$19.29	6 7 8 11
17	$32,459	$145.55	$18.19		$34,117	$152.99	$19.13	$35,759	$160.37	$20.04	17
20	$33,821	$151.66	$18.97		$35,476	$159.09	$19.87	$37,121	$166.45	$20.81	20
23	$35,181	$157.76	$19.73		$36,839	$165.19	$20.66	$38,483	$172.57	$21.58	23
	CLASS D		CLASS E	
	BA + 15 Semestei	r Units	BA + 30 Semester Units OR BA + Multiple Subject or Child Development/ Children's Ctr Credential	
	Daily		Daily	
Steps	Annual Rate	Hourly	Annual Rate Hourly	Steps
1	$29,184 $130.87	$16.36	$30,842 $138.30 $17.29	1
2	$30,567 $137.08	$17.13	$32,494 $145.72 $18.21	2
3	$31,938 $143.21	$17.90	$34,143 $153.12 $19.14	3
4	$33,320 $149.41	$18.67	$35,794 $160.51 $20.08	4
5	$34,695 $155.60	$19.44	$37,452 $167.94 $20.98	5
6	$36,072 $161.77	$20.22	$38,828 $174.11 $21.76	6
7			$40,199 $180.26 $22.53	7
8			$41,578 $186.45 $23.30	8
11	$37,433 $167.86	$20.98	$42,940 $192.55 $24.07	11
17	$38,792 $173.95	$21.74	$44,298 $198.65 $24.84	17
20	$40,155 $180.07	$22.51	$45,659 $204.75 $25.58	20
23	$41,516 $186.15	$23.28	$47,020 $210.86 $26.35	23
This salary schedule reflects a 1.75% increase in compensation.
SCTA 04-05 Child-WEB
Salary Schedule P/N
APPENDIX C-l
Human Resource Services
/ Sacramento
% City Unified
\ School District
APPROVAL
Sacramento Agreement Article 12.4.3.1 - 12.4.3.10
(Submit to Human Resource Services)
Refer to Bulletin: "Salary Advancement of Certificated Personnel Through Professional Development."
Name: (Last, First)		Date:		
School:	Position/Title:	
Grade and/or Subjects Taught:		
Expected Date of Completion:		
Criteria: Any course or professional development activity under the Professional Improvement Plan must include at least one of the following criteria: (CHECK [S] ALL THAT APPLY)
[3 Addressing district goals and objectives.
□	Continued training in one's major or minor reasonably related to the teacher's current or prospective teaching assignment.
□	Course work which will facilitate the use of the latest technology or philosophy within the teacher's major or minor or current or
prospective teaching assignment.
□	Improving the teacher's competency in managing and in instructing in the classroom.
□	Increasing the teacher's knowledge, competence, performance, or effectiveness as a professional.
□	Planning, analyzing, interpreting, demonstrating, disseminating or evaluating the area of study or innovation as a part of a directed course of study in his or her major, minor, or current or prospective teaching assignment.
Semester Units	Features	Instructions
	1. Textbook evaluation or curriculum development (allowance-one unit of credit per 32 hours of time expended).	Attach details, i.e., purpose of committee work, participants, time involved, duration, values to be gained.
	2. Junior college or adult education courses (allowance-one unit of credit per 15 hours in a lecture course, or 45 hours in a laboratory course).	Attach outline of details of your plan, and indicate how such courses will contribute to your professional improvement.
	3. Educational research	(allowance—one unit	per 32 hours of effort expended).	Attach outline of details of your plan and comments of the Accountability Office. (A copy of the completed report will be required.)
	4. Professional organization work (allowance-one unit per 32 hours of time and effort expended; approval cannot be granted more than one year in advance of work planned).	Attach outline of details of work planned, i.e., office to be held, length of term, time involved, etc.
	5. Visitations or observation (allowance—one unit per 40 hours spent; hours may be accumulated).	Attach details, i.e., time, place, duration, values to be gained.
	6. Conference attendance (allowance-one unit per 40 hours of attendance; hours may be accumulated).	Attach details, i.e., name of conference, purpose, time, place, duration, values to be gained.
	7. Workshop attendance (allowance—one unit per 32 hours of time and effort expended; hours may be accumulated).	Attach details, i.e., purpose of workshop, participants, time, place, number of hours, values to be gained. If district-sponsored, attach flyer.
	8. Development of teaching materials (allowance—one unit per 40 hours of time expended; note that materials must also be usable by others).	Attach details, i.e., nature and intended use of materials, plan of development, estimated time involved.
	9. Travel (allowance—one unit per week of travel; limit-three units per three-year period).	Attach statement of purpose, objectives, estimate of educational relevance, itinerary (including dates of departure and return, areas to be visited, etc.).
	10. Private study (allowance—one unit per 32 hours of time expended).	Attach details of work to be undertaken, name and qualifications of instructor, and indicate how the work will contribute to your professional improvement.
10/26/04, Rev. A
PSL-F035
Page 1 of 2
Principal's/Administrator's Comments: Although the principal's/administrator's approval of the request is not required, he/she must sign this form. The principal/administrator may make comments regarding the appropriateness of the request. Principal will return the form to the applicant for processing.
Action by Administrator, Human Resource Services or Designee
Plan approved as presented.________________________
Plan will be approved if modified as indicated below. Plan disapproved for the following reasons:
Authorized Signature
Date
Distribution: Copy returned to applicant for personal file; copy to be filed in Human Resource Services.
10/26/04, Rev. A
PSL-F035
Page 2 of 2
APPENDIX C-2
Human Resource Services
Sacramento City Unified School District
(Complete in duplicate and submit to Human Resource Services)
COMPLETED
Name: (Last, First)		Date:
School:	Position/Title:	
Grade and/or Subjects Taught:		
Description of Work Completed: Identify by indicating on the blanks to the left the number of semester units earned or expected, and the date such work was completed.
Semester Units	Date Completed	Features	Instructions
		1. Textbook evaluation or curriculum development (allowance—one unit of credit per 32 hours of time expended).	Attach report of committee or detailed report of your activities, a statement of the time spent and educational value to you, and a verification by the committee chairman of the time and effort expended.
		2. Junior college or adult education courses (allowance—one unit of credit per 15 hours in a lecture course, or 45 hours in a laboratory course).	Attach transcripts or officially validated grade cards.
		3. Educational research (allowance—one unit per 32 hours of effort expended).	Attach completed copy of your written report.
		4. Professional organization work (allowance-one unit per 32 hours of time and effort expended; approval cannot be granted more than one year in advance of work planned).	Attach log verifying dates and times. Attach outline of work accomplished, including office held, length of term, time involved, activities, and your appraisal of the value to the organization.
		5. Visitations or observations (allowance-one unit per 40 hours spent; hours may be accumulated).	Attach log verifying dates, times, and locations. Attach written resume of contracts or observations and a description of their educational worth to you. This form should not be submitted with less than 40 hours of time spent.
		6. Conference attendance (allowance-one unit per 40 hours of attendance; hours may be accumulated).	Attach written report describing sessions and sections attended. Attach verification of attendance. Only after school and weekend hours may be accumulated. This form should not be submitted with less than 40 hours of attendance.
		7. Workshop attendance (allowance-one unit per 32 hours of time and effort expended; hours may be accumulated).	Attach report of workshop and describe your part in the work; or attach detailed report of your activities and description of their educational worth to you. Attach the workshop certificate verifying date, times, number of hours and presenter. This form should not be submitted with less than 32 hours of attendance.
		8. Development of teaching materials (allowance-one unit per 40 hours of time expended; note that materials must also be usable by others).	Attach materials developed or detailed description of such materials, including time spent and your evaluation of their worth to you and others.
		9. Travel (allowance—one unit per week of travel; limit—three units per three-year period).	Attach report within one month after completion, including daily itinerary explaining what was done and seen each day and an appraisal of the trip.
		10. Private study (allowance—one unit per 32 hours of time expended).	Attach report from instructor, including materials studied, time spent, and his/her evaluation of your progress.
10/26/04, Rev. A
PSL-F036
Page 1 of2
Action by Administrator, Human Resource Services or Designee
Number of professional improvement units authorized:		
□	Units will be approved if modified as indicated below.
□	Units not authorized because:
	
Authorized Signature
Date
(Original to be returned to applicant for his/her personal file; duplicate to be filed in Human Resource Services. The units authorized will be forwarded to the appropriate Personnel Technician in Human Resource Services.)
Distribution: Copy returned to applicant for personal file; copy to be filed in Human Resource Services.
10/26/04, Rev. A
PSL-F036
Page 2 of 2
APPENDIX C-3
Human Resource Services
Sacramento City Unified School District
Sacramento Agreement Article 12.2.1.5.2
APPROVAL
(Submit to Human Resource Services)
Refer to Bulletin: "Salary Advancement of Certificated Personnel Through Professional Development."
Name: (Last, First)		
Social Security Number:		Date:
School:	Position/Title:	
Grade and/or Subjects Taught:		
Expected Date of Completion:		
Criteria: Any course or professional development activity under the New Column (1997) Professional Improvement Plan must include at least one of the following criteria: (CHECK [V] ALL THAT APPLY)
□ ELL: CLAD, LDS, BCLAD, 1969 (Grandfather one unit)	Q Science
El Literacy Program	□ District Needs
O District Classes	□ Major Field/Current Assignment (Sec.)
O Technology	□ Ancillary Services
□ Math	
Semester Units	Features	Instructions
	1. Textbook evaluation or curriculum development (allowance—one unit of credit per 32 hours of time expended).	Attach details, i.e., purpose of committee work, participants, time involved, duration, values to be gained.
	2. Junior college or adult education courses (allowance—one unit of credit per 15 hours in a lecture course, or 45 hours in a laboratory course).	Attach outline of details of your plan, and indicate how such courses will contribute to your professional improvement.
	3. Educational research (allowance—one unit per 32 hours of effort expended).	Attach outline of details of your plan and comments of the Accountability Office. (A copy of the completed report will be required.)
	4. Conference attendance (allowance—one unit per 40 hours of attendance; hours may be accumulated).	Attach details, i.e., name of conference, purpose, time, place, duration, values to be gained.
	5. Workshop attendance (allowance—one unit per 32 hours of time and effort expended; hours may be accumulated).	Attach details, i.e., purpose of workshop, participants, time, place, number of hours, values to be gained. If district sponsored, attach flyer.
	6. Development of teaching materials (allowance-one unit per 40 hours of time expended; note that materials must also be usable by others).	Attach details, i.e., nature and intended use of materials, plan of development, estimated time involved.
10/26/04, Rev. A
PSL-F037
Page 1 of2
Principal's/Administrator’s Comments: Although the principal’s/administrator's approval of the request is not required, he/she must sign this form. The principal/administrator may make comments regarding the appropriateness of the request. Principal will return the form to the applicant for processing.
Signature of Principal/Administrator	Date
Signature of Applicant	Date
Comments:
Action by Administrator, Human Resource Services or Designee
□	Plan approved as presented.
□	Plan will be approved if modified as indicated below.
□	Plan disapproved for the following reasons:
	
	
	
	
	
Authorized Signature
Date
Distribution: Copy returned to applicant for personal file; copy to be filed in Human Resource Services.
10/26/04, Rev. A
PSL-F037
Page 2 of2
APPENDIX C-4
Sacramento City Unified School District
Human Resource Services
(Complete in duplicate and submit to Human Resource Services)
COMPLETED
Name: (Last, First)				
Social Security Number:		Date:
School:	Position/Title:	
Grade and/or Subjects Taught:		
Description of Work Completed: Identify by indicating on the blanks to the left the number of semester units earned or expected, and the date such work was completed.
Semester Units	Date Completed	Features	Instructions
		1. Textbook evaluation or curriculum development (allowance-one unit of credit per 32 hours of time expended).	Attach report of committee or detailed report of your activities, a statement of the time spent and educational value to you, and a verification by the committee chairman of the time and effort expended.
		2. Junior college or adult education courses (allowance—one unit of credit per 15 hours in a lecture course, or 45 hours in a laboratory course).	Attach transcripts or officially validated grade cards.
		3. Educational research (allowance-one unit per 32 hours of effort expended).	Attach completed copy of your written report.
		4. Conference attendance (allowance-one unit per 40 hours of attendance; hours may be accumulated).	Attach written report describing sessions and sections attended. Attach verification of attendance. Only after school and weekend hours may be accumulated. This form should not be submitted with less than 40 hours of attendance.
		5. Workshop attendance (allowance-one unit per 32 hours of time and effort expended; hours may be accumulated).	Attach report of workshop and describe your part in the work; or attach detailed report of your activities and description of their educational worth to you. Attach the workshop certificate verifying date, times, number of hours and presenter. This form should not be submitted with less than 32 hours of attendance.
		6. Development of teaching materials (allowance—one unit per 40 hours of time expended; note that materials must also be usable by others).	Attach materials developed or detailed description of such materials, including time spent and your evaluation of their worth to you and others.
10/26/04, Rev. A
PSL-F038
Page 1 of 2
Action by Administrator, Human Resource Services or Designee
Number of professional improvement units authorized:
D Units will be approved if modified as indicated below.__________________________________________________
D Units not authorized because:
Authorized Signature
Date
(Original to be returned to applicant for his/her personal file; duplicate to be filed in Human Resource Services. The units authorized will be forwarded to the appropriate Personnel Technician in Human Resource Services.)
Distribution: Copy returned to applicant for personal file; copy to be filed in Human Resource Services.
10/26/04, Rev. A
PSL-F038
Page 2 of2
APPENDIX D
Special Education - Student Inclusion
The purpose of this Appendix is to set forth the working and learning condition for teachers and students involved in special education student inclusion.
1.	There will be three types of inclusion utilized during the 1993-94 school year.
1.1	Type One: A Type One inclusion shall be where one special ed student classified as severely
disabled (SD) is enrolled in a regular education class.
1.1.1	The SD student shall count as part of the teacher’s class size roll.
1.1.2	The regular ed teacher shall receive a stipend of $50 per calendar month.
1.1.3	A plan will be developed by the regular education teacher, the special education personnel and local
administrator to provide additional prep time of up to 60 minutes per week for the regular education teacher. The time is not to come from regular prep teacher. Or one release day per month shall be provided the regular education teacher for training and collaboration.
1.1.4	The regular education teacher who agrees to receive the special education student shall receive an
additional $150 for supplies for each student and access to the Special Education materials lab for an amount equal to the annual allocation for special ed teachers. The teacher will also receive aide time.
1.1.5	The regular education teacher shall receive training per Section 2 below.
1.2	Type Two: Whole Class Collaborative Inclusion
1.2.1	Whole Class inclusion shall be defined as a co-teaching situation where both teachers share the same
classroom and the support services provided by Special Ed.
1.2.2	Such regular education teachers who agree to accept special education students shall be covered by
Sections 3.1.1 through 3.1.5.
1.2.3	The class shall be taught by born the regular ed teacher and special education teacher.
1.2.4	The resulting regular education class size shall be reduced by two students or twenty-five percent
of the Special Ed class, whichever is greater. The special education class size will also be reduced by two.
1.3	Type Three: Special Ed Class Spread Among Regular Education Classes
1.3.1	Specialized support of special ed students will include additional aide time, specialist time, and time
of others as determined appropriate.
1.3.2	Such regular ed teachers who agree to receive the special ed student shall be covered by Sections
3.1.1 through 3.1.5.
JJH\O5277OOO\14516
1.3.3	However, the total class	size	of	each accepting classroom shall be reduced by three students below
the regular maximum.
2.	Specialized Training
2.1	The District shall offer training	for:
-	Parents of special education student
-	Special education staff
-	Regular education classroom teacher
-	Appropriate support staff
-	Regular education parents
-	Faculty and support staff at the school site
-	Others as appropriate
2.2	Special Ed workshops shall be provided for the purpose of training and professional improvement,
excepting for up to 15 minutes of administrative requirements when necessary. The workshops shall also be open to regular education teachers with special ed students.
3.	The names of schools and teachers agreeing to full inclusion shall be provided to the SCTA.
4.	Roles of Participants in lEP’s (Individual Education Plans)
a)	Program Specialists may serve as coordinators of lEP’s at schools without RSP teachers at the request of the special day class teacher.
b)	Site administrators or designee (in cases of emergency) shall serve as participants in IEP meetings.
c)	Regular education teachers shall have the rights, but are not required, to attend IEP meetings.
d)	Special education teachers shall participate in IEP meetings for their students per their job specifications during the work day. A teacher’s class may be covered by an instructional
z aide who shall be under the supervision of the special education teacher. The instructional time shall be the responsibility of the classroom teacher. Participating in IEP meetings after the work day or during prep time shall be voluntary.
e)	For the purpose of coordinating the IEP meetings at schools, one teacher shall be designated by colleagues with agreement of such teacher. The coordinating teacher shall receive office help for phone calls and scheduling. The coordinating teacher will (as determined by the special ed personnel) receive additional time for meeting the legal provisions of state and federal law for developing and implementing IEP meetings. The time will be equal to the current prep time at the site through the use of scheduling and departmental agreement without increasing costs to special ed or the general fund.
5.	Special ed workshops shall be provided for the purpose of training and professional improvement, excepting for up to 15 minutes of administrative requirements when necessary. The workshops shall also be open to regular education teachers with special ed students.
JJH\O5277OOO\14516
2004-2005 Elementary School Calendar Summary APPENDIX E-l (a)
Trimester Schedule
FIRST TRIMESTER ................................ 55	Teaching Days
SCHOOLS OPEN .............................................. Tuesday,	September 7, 2004
Veterans’ Day Holiday .....................................Thursday,	November 11, 2004
Thanksgiving Holidays............Wednesday,	November 24 through Sunday, November 28, 2004
FIRST TRIMESTER ENDS ............................... Tuesday,	November 23, 2004
SECOND TRIMESTER ...................................57	Teaching Days
SCHOOLS REOPEN FOR SECOND TRIMESTER........................Monday,	November 29, 2004
Winter Holidays..................... Saturday,	December 18 through Sunday, January 2, 2005
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Holiday ......................... Monday,	January 17, 2005
Lincoln Day Holiday ........................................ Monday,	February 14, 2005
Washington Day Holiday ..................................... Monday,	February 21, 2005
SECOND TRIMESTER ENDS ...................................Friday,	March 4, 2005
THIRD TRIMESTER
68 Teaching Days
SCHOOLS REOPEN FOR THIRD TRIMESTER................................. Monday,	March 7, 2005
Spring Holidays ...........................Saturday,	March 19 through Sunday, March 27, 2005
Memorial Holiday ................................................... Monday,	May 30, 2005
Last Day of Instruction ...........................................Thursday, June 16, 2005
Non-Instructional Day................................................Friday,	June 17, 2005
THIRD TRIMESTER ENDS .......................................Thursday,	June 16, 2005
Total Instructional Days:	180
Staff Development Days:	3
Non-Instructional Day:	 1
Total Service Days:	184
ELEMENTARY SHORTENED DAYS
Parent-Teacher Conferences:
6 days: October 25 - November 30, 2004
5 days: February 8 - March 4, 2005
Reports and Records:
3 days: Friday, December 3, 20024 Friday, March 4, 2005 Thursday, June 16, 2005
SUMMARY
Shortened Days..................14
Full Days ......................166
Staff Development............3
Non-Instructional Day ...........1
Total Service Days:...........184
2005-2006 Elementary School Calendar Summary APPENDIX E-l(b)
Trimester Schedule
FIRST TRIMESTER
55 Teaching Days
SCHOOLS OPEN.................................................Tuesday,	September 6, 2005
Veterans’ Day Holiday .......................................Friday,	November 11, 2005
Thanksgiving Holidays.............Wednesday,	November 23 through Sunday, November 27 2005
FIRST TRIMESTER ENDS ................................ Tuesday,	November 22, 2005
SECOND TRIMESTER ...................................57	Teaching Days
SCHOOLS REOPEN FOR SECOND TRIMESTER ........................Monday,	November 28, 2005
Winter Holidays......................Saturday,	December 24 through Sunday, January 8, 2006
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Holiday ......................... Monday,	January 16, 2006
Lincoln Day Holiday ........................................ Monday,	February 13, 2006
Washington Day Holiday ..................................... Monday,	February 20, 2006
SECOND TRIMESTER ENDS ................................... Friday,	March 3, 2006
THIRD TRIMESTER
68 Teaching Days
SCHOOLS REOPEN FOR THIRD TRIMESTER................................. Monday,	March 6, 2006
Spring Holidays ............................. Saturday,	April 8 through Sunday, April 16, 2006
Memorial Holiday ................................................... Monday,	May 29, 2006
Last Day of Instruction .......................................... Thursday,	June 15, 2006
Non-Instructional Day................................................Friday,	June 16, 2006
THIRD TRIMESTER ENDS ........................................Thursday,	June 15, 2006
Total Instructional Days:	180
Staff Development Days:	3
Non-Instructional Day:	 1
Total Service Days:	184
ELEMENTARY SHORTENED DAYS
Parent-Teacher Conferences:
6 days: October 28 - November 29, 2005
5 days: February 10 - March 2, 2006
Reports and Records:
3 days: Friday, November 18, 2005 Friday, March 3, 2006 Thursday, June 15, 2006
SUMMARY
Shortened Days...................14
Full Days ......................166
Staff Development.............3
Non-Instructional Day ...........1
Total Service Days:...........184
2006-2007 Elementary School Calendar Summary APPENDIX E-l(c)
Trimester Schedule
FIRST TRIMESTER
55 Teaching Days
SCHOOLS OPEN................................................Tuesday,	September 5, 2006
Veterans’ Day Holiday .......................................Friday,	November 10, 2006
Thanksgiving Holidays.............Wednesday,	November 23 through Sunday, November 26 2006
FIRST TRIMESTER ENDS ................................ Tuesday,	November 21, 2006
SECOND TRIMESTER ...................................57	Teaching Days
SCHOOLS REOPEN FOR SECOND TRIMESTER .......................Monday,	November 27, 2006
Winter Holidays......................Saturday,	December 23 through Sunday, January 6, 2007
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Holiday ......................... Monday,	January 15, 2007
Lincoln Day Holiday ......................................... Monday,	February 12, 2007
Washington Day Holiday ...................................... Monday,	February 19,2007
SECOND TRIMESTER ENDS ....................................Friday,	March 2, 2007
THIRD TRIMESTER
68 Teaching Days
SCHOOLS REOPEN FOR THIRD TRIMESTER
Spring Holidays ...........................
Memorial Holiday ..........................
Last Day of Instruction ...................
Non-Instructional Day......................
THIRD TRIMESTER ENDS ................
...................... Monday,	March 5, 2007
Saturday, March 31 through Sunday, April 8, 2007
........................ Monday,	May	28,	2007
..................... Thursday,	June	14,	2007
........................Friday,	June	15,	2007
......................Thursday,	June	14,	2007
Total Instructional Days:	180
Staff Development Days:	3	**
Non-Instructional Day:	 1
Total Service Days:	184
ELEMENTARY SHORTENED DAYS
Parent-Teacher Conferences:
6 days:
5 days:
October 27 - November 28, 2006
February 9 - March 1, 2007
Reports and Records:
3 days:
Friday, November 17, 2006
Friday, March 2, 2007
Thursday, June 14, 2007
SUMMARY
Shortened Days...................14
Full Days ......................166
** Staff Development............3
Non-Instructional Day ............1
Total Service Days:...........184
** Pending negotiations with SCTA, three (3) staff development days will be held outside of the 180
student instructional days and one (1) non-instructional day for the 2006-2007 school year.
2004-2005 Secondary School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-2(a)
FIRST SEMESTER
89Teaching Days
SCHOOLS OPEN .............................................Tuesday,	September 7, 2004
Veterans’ Day Holiday ...................................Thursday,	November 11 2004
Thanksgiving Holidays ........Wednesday,	November 24 through Sunday, November 28, 2004
Winter Holidays ..................Saturday,	December 18 through Sunday, January 2, 2005
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Holiday....................... Monday,	January 17, 2005
FIRST SEMESTER ENDS.................................Friday,	January 28, 2005
SECOND SEMESTER	........................... 91 Teaching Days
SCHOOLS REOPEN FOR SECOND SEMESTER.....................
Lincoln Day Holiday....................................
Washington Day Holiday ................................
Monday, January 31, 2005
Monday, February 14, 2005
Monday, February 21, 2005
Spring Holidays ............................. Saturday,	March 19 through Sunday, March 27, 2005
Memorial Day Holiday .................................................... Monday, May 30, 2005
Last Day of Instruction .................................................Thursday, June 16, 2005
Non-Instructional Day.......................................................Friday, June 17, 2005
SECOND SEMESTER ENDS ...................................Thursday,	June 16, 2005
Shortened Days
Middle Schools	Reports and Records	4 days: 2 days:	October 29, 2004; January 28, 2005; April 15, 2005; June 16, 2005 To be arranged by principal and staff
High	Final Examinations	4 days:	January 21, through January 27, 2005
Schools		4 days:	June 10, 13, 14, & 15,2005
	Reports and Records	4 days:	October 29, 2004; January 28, 2005;
April 15, 2005; June 16, 2005
Summary	Middle School	High School
Shortened Days	6	12
Staff Development Days	3	3
Full Days	174	168
Non-Instructional Day	1	1
Total Service Days	184	184
2005-2006 Secondary School Calendar Summary APPENDIX E-2(b)
FIRST SEMESTER
89 Teaching Days
SCHOOLS OPEN .................................................Tuesday, September 6, 2005
Veterans’ Day Holiday ........................................Friday, November 11 2005
Thanksgiving Holidays ..........Wednesday,	November 23 through Sunday, November 27, 2005
Winter Holidays ....................Saturday,	December 24 through Sunday, January 8, 2006
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Holiday........................... Monday, January 16, 2006
FIRST SEMESTER ENDS......................................Friday, January 27, 2006
SECOND SEMESTER
91 Teaching Days
SCHOOLS REOPEN FOR SECOND SEMESTER.............................. Monday,	January	30,	2006
Lincoln Day Holiday ............................................ Monday,	February	13,	2006
Washington Day Holiday ..........................................Monday,	February	20,	2006
Spring Holidays ........................... Saturday,	April 8 through Sunday, April 16, 2006
Memorial Day Holiday ............................................... Monday,	May 29, 2006
Last Day of Instruction ...........................................Thursday,	June 15, 2006
Non-Instructional Day................................................Friday,	June 16, 2006
SECOND SEMESTER ENDS ......................................Thursday, June 15, 2006
Shortened Days			
Middle	Reports and Records	4 days:	November 4, 2005; January 27, 2006;
Schools		2 days:	April 7, 2006; June 15, 2006 To be arranged by principal and staff
High	Final Examinations	4 days:	January 23, 24, 25 & 26, 2006
Schools		4 days:	June 9, 12, 13, & 14, 2006
	Reports and Records	4 days:	November 4, 2005; January 27, 2006; April 7, 2006; June 15, 2006
Summary	Middle School	High School
Shortened Days	6	12
Staff Development Days	3	3
Full Days	174	168
Non-Instructional Day	1	1
Total Service Days	184	184
2006-2007 Secondary School Calendar Summary
APPENDIX E-2(c)
FIRST SEMESTER
89 Teaching Days
SCHOOLS OPEN ................................................Tuesday, September 5, 2006
Veterans’ Day Holiday .......................................Friday, November 10, 2006
Thanksgiving Holidays ..........Wednesday,	November 22 through Sunday, November 26, 2006
Winter Holidays ....................Saturday,	December 23 through Sunday, January 6, 2007
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Holiday........................... Monday,	January 15, 2007
FIRST SEMESTER ENDS......................................Friday, January 26, 2007
SECOND SEMESTER
91 Teaching Days
SCHOOLS REOPEN FOR SECOND SEMESTER.............................. Monday,	January	29,	2007
Lincoln Day Holiday ............................................ Monday,	February	12,	2007
Washington Day Holiday ......................................... Monday,	February	19,	2007
Spring Holidays .......................... Saturday,	March 31 through Sunday, April 8, 2007
Memorial Day Holiday .............................................. Monday,	May 28, 2007
Last Day of Instruction ..........................................Thursday,	June 14, 2007
Non-Instructional Day...............................................Friday,	June 15, 2007
SECOND SEMESTER ENDS ......................................Thursday, June 14, 2007
Shortened Days			
Middle	Reports and Records	4 days:	November 3, 2006; January 26, 2007;
Schools		2 days:	April 13, 2007; June 14, 2007 To be arranged by principal and staff
High	Final Examinations	4 days:	January 22, through January 26, 2007
Schools		4 days:	June 8, 11, 12, & 13,2007
	Reports and Records	4 days:	November 3, 2006; January 26, 2007; April 13, 2007; June 14, 2007
Summary	Middle School	High School
Shortened Days	6	12
Staff Development Days **	3	3
Full Days	174	168
Non-instructional Day	1	1
Total Service Days	184	184
** Pending negotiations with SCTA, three (3) staff development days will be held outside of the 180 student instructional days and one (1) non-instructional day for the 2006-2007 school year.
2004-2005 Single Track I Year Round School Calendar Summary APPENDIX E-3(a)
Trimester Schedule
FIRST TRIMESTER
64 Teaching Days
Non-instructional Service Day...................................Friday,	July 30, 2004
SCHOOL BEGINS FOR STUDENTS....................................Monday, August 2, 2004
Labor Day Holiday ..........................................Monday,	September 6, 2004
FIRST TRIMESTER ENDS ..................................Friday,	October 29, 2004
SECOND TRIMESTER
62 Teaching Days
SECOND TRIMESTER BEGINS .....................Monday,	November 29, 2004
Winter Holidays........................ Saturday,	December 18 through Sunday, January 2, 2005
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Holiday ............................. Monday,	January 17, 2005
Lincoln Day Holiday ............................................ Monday,	February 14, 2005
Washington Day Holiday ......................................... Monday,	February 21, 2005
SECOND TRIMESTER ENDS ...................................... Friday,	March 11, 2005
THIRD TRIMESTER
54 Teaching Days
Spring Holidays .................... Saturday,	March 12 through Sunday, April 10, 2005
THIRD TRIMESTER BEGINS.....................................Monday,	April 11, 2005
Memorial Holiday .......................................... Monday,	May 30, 2005
THIRD TRIMESTER ENDS .................................Friday,	June 24, 2005
Total Instructional Days:	180
Staff Development Days:	3
Non-instructional Day:	 1_
Total Service Days:	184
ELEMENTARY SHORTENED DAYS
Parent-Teacher Conferences:
Reports and Records:
6 days: October 21, 2004 - October 28, 2004
5 days: March 4, 2005 - March 10, 2005
3 days: October 29, 2004 March 11,2005 June 24, 2005
SUMMARY
Shortened Days...................14
Full Days ......................166
Staff Development.............3
Non-instructional Day ............1
Total Service Days:...........184
2005-2006 Single Track I Year Round School Calendar Summary APPENDIX E-3(b)
Trimester Schedule
FIRST TRIMESTER
64 Teaching Days
Non-Instructional Service Day...................................Friday,	July 29, 2005
SCHOOL BEGINS FOR STUDENTS....................................Monday,	August 1, 2005
Labor Day Holiday ..........................................Monday,	September 5, 2005
FIRST TRIMESTER ENDS ..................................Friday,	October 28, 2005
SECOND TRIMESTER
67 Teaching Days
SECOND TRIMESTER BEGINS ...................................Monday,	November 28, 2005
Winter Holidays..................... Saturday,	December 24 through Sunday, January 8, 2006
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Holiday ......................... Monday,	January 16, 2006
Lincoln Day Holiday ........................................ Monday,	February 13, 2006
Washington Day Holiday ..................................... Monday,	February 20, 2006
SECOND TRIMESTER ENDS ..................................Friday,	March 17, 2006
THIRD TRIMESTER
49 Teaching Days
Spring Holidays..................... Saturday,	March 18 through Sunday, April 16, 2006
THIRD TRIMESTER BEGINS.....................................Monday,	April 17, 2006
Memorial Holiday .......................................... Monday,	May 29, 2006
THIRD TRIMESTER ENDS .................................Friday,	June 23, 2006
Total Instructional Days:	180
Staff Development Days:	3
Non-Instructional Day:	 1
Total Service Days:	184
ELEMENTARY SHORTENED DAYS
Parent-Teacher Conferences:
Reports and Records:
6 days: October 20, 2005 - October 27, 2005
5 days: March 12, 2006 - March 16, 2006
3 days: October 28, 2005
March 17, 2006
June 23,2006
SUMMARY
Shortened Days...................14
Full Days ......................166
Staff Development.............3
Non-Instructional Day ...........1
Total Service Days:...........184
2006-2007 Single Track / Year Round School Calendar Summary APPENDIX E-3(c)
Trimester Schedule
FIRST TRIMESTER
62 Teaching Days
Non-Instructional Service Day....................................Tuesday,	August 1,2006
SCHOOL BEGINS FOR STUDENTS...................................Wednesday, August 2, 2006
Labor Day Holiday .............................................Monday, September 4, 2006
FIRST TRIMESTER ENDS ....................................Friday, October 27, 2006
SECOND TRIMESTER ...................................66	Teaching Days
SECOND TRIMESTER BEGINS ...................................Monday,	November 27, 2006
Winter Holidays.................... Saturday,	December 17 through Tuesday, January 2, 2007
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Holiday ......................... Monday,	January 15, 2007
Lincoln Day Holiday ........................................ Monday,	February 12, 2007
Washington Day Holiday ..................................... Monday,	February 19, 2007
SECOND TRIMESTER ENDS ..................................Friday,	March 16, 2007
THIRD TRIMESTER
52 Teaching Days
Spring Holidays ........................ Saturday,	March 17 through Sunday, April 15, 2007
THIRD TRIMESTER BEGINS..........................................Monday,	April 16, 2007
Memorial Holiday ............................................... Monday,	May 28, 2007
THIRD TRIMESTER ENDS ..................................Wednesday,	June 27, 2007
Total Instructional Days:	180
Staff Development Days:	3	**
Non-Instructional Day:	 1
Total Service Days:	184
ELEMENTARY SHORTENED DAYS
Parent-Teacher Conferences:
Reports and Records:
6 days: October 19, 2006 - October 27, 2006
5 days: March 8, 2007 - March 16, 2007
3 days: October 27, 2006
March 16, 2007
June 27, 2007
SUMMARY
Shortened Days...................14
Full Days ......................166
** Staff Development............3
Non-Instructional Day ...........1
Total Service Days:...........184
** Pending negotiations with SCTA, three (3) staff development days will be held outside of the 180
student instructional days and one (1) non-instructional day for the 2006-2007 school year.
APPENDIX E - 4 ( A )
Sacramento City Unified School District
2004-2005 Adult Education Calendars for
Contract Employees ONLY
(Q
177 DAY CONTRACTS at McClaskey Adult Center, Skills and Business Education Center, Fremont School for Adults, and Old Marshall Adult Education Center
First Semester: 84 Teaching Days (September 6, 2004 - January 21,2005)
Labor Day Holiday..................................................................................Monday,	September 6, 2004
First Day of Instruction for Fall Semester................................................................................Tuesday,	September 7, 2004
(0
0
Veterans Day Holiday..................................................................................Thursday,	November 11, 2004
Thanksgiving Holidays........................................................Wednesday, November 24 - Friday, November 26, 2004
Winter Holidays...................................................................Monday,	December 20 - Friday, December 31,2004
Martin Luther King Day........................................................................................Monday,	January 17, 2005
Last Day of Instruction for Fall Semester.....................................................................Friday,	January 21 2005
Second Semester: 93 Teaching Days (January 24, 2005 - June 13, 2005)
First Day of Instruction for Spring Semester.
Lincoln Day Holiday........................
Presidents’ Day Holiday....................
Spring Holidays............................
Memorial Day Holiday.......................
Last Day of Instruction for Spring Semester.
.................Monday,	January 24, 2005
................Monday,	February 14, 2005
...............Monday,	February 21, 2005
Monday, March 21 - Friday, March 25, 2005
...................Monday,	May 30, 2005
...................Monday,	June 13, 2005
181 DAY CONTRACTS at Fremont School for Adults and Old Marshall
First Semester: 84 Teaching Days (September 6, 2004 - January 21, 2005)
(0
(U O
(0 O
00
Labor Day Holiday.....................................................
First Day of Instruction for Fall Semester............................
Veterans Day Holiday..................................................
Thanksgiving Holidays.................................................
Winter Holidays.......................................................
Martin Luther King Day................................................
Last Day of Instruction for Fall Semester.............................
Second Semester: 96 Teaching Days (January 24, 2005 - June 16, 2005) 1 Non-Instructional Day (June 17, 2005)
First Day of Instruction for Spring Semester..........................
Lincoln Day Holiday...................................................
Presidents’ Day Holiday...............................................
Spring Holidays.......................................................
Memorial Day Holiday..................................................
Last Day of Instruction for Spring Semester...........................
Non-Instructional Day.................................................
.........................Monday,	September 6, 2004 ........................Tuesday,	September 7, 2004
...Thursday,	November 11, 2004 Wednesday, November 24 - Friday, November 26, 2004 ...Monday, December 20 - Friday, December 31, 2004 ...Monday,......January 17, 2005 ...Friday,	January 21 2005
..................Monday,	January 24, 2005
................Monday,	February 14, 2005
................Monday,	February 21,2005
Monday, March 21 - Friday, March 25, 2005
....................Monday,	May	30, 2005
..................Thursday,	June	16, 2005
....................Friday,	June	17, 2005
•	230 DAY CONTRACTS
230 Teaching Days at Skills and Business Education Center (U Contract Teachers Only)
(Q
c
(0 O
First Day of Instruction......................................................................................Thursday, July 1, 2004
Fourth of July Holiday........................................................................................Monday, July 5, 2004
Summer Recess 2004...............................................................................Tuesday,	July 6 - Friday, July 9, 2004
Labor Day Holiday...........................................................................................Monday,	September 6, 2004
Veterans Day Holiday......................................................................................Thursday,	November 11, 2004
Thanksgiving Holidays...........................................................Wednesday, November 24 - Friday, November 26, 2004
Winter Holidays....................................................................Thursday,	December 23 - Friday, December 31, 2004
Martin Luther King Day......................................................................................Monday,	January 17, 2005
Lincoln Day Holiday.........................................................................................Monday,	February 14, 2005
Presidents’ Day Holiday.....................................................................................Monday,	February 21, 2005
Spring Holidays.............................................................................Monday,	March 21 - Friday, March 25, 2005
Memorial Day Holiday............................................................................................Monday,	May 30, 2005
Last Day of Instruction.......................................................................................Thursday,	June 23, 2005
(0 O
230 Teaching Days at McClaskey (U Contract Teachers Only)
o co
CM
First Day of Instruction......................................................................................Thursday, July 1, 2004
Fourth of July Holiday........................................................................................Monday, July 5, 2004
Summer Recess 2004...............................................................................Tuesday,	July 6 - Friday, July 16, 2004
Labor Day Holiday.........................................................................................Monday, September 6, 2004
Veterans Day Holiday......................................................................................Thursday, November 11, 2004
Thanksgiving Holidays...........................................................Wednesday, November 24 - Friday, November 26, 2004
Winter Holidays....................................................................Thursday,	December 23 - Friday, December 31, 2004
Martin Luther King Day....................................................................................Monday, January 17, 2005
Lincoln Day Holiday.......................................................................................Monday, February 14, 2005
Presidents’ Day Holiday...................................................................................Monday, February 21, 2005
Spring Holidays.............................................................................Monday,	March 21 - Friday, March 25, 2005
Memorial Day Holiday..........................................................................................Monday, May 30, 2005
Last Day of Instruction.......................................................................................Thursday, June 30, 2005
Sacramento City Unified School District
APPENDIX E - 4 ( B
2005-06 Adult Education Calendars for Contract Employees ONLY
177 DAY CONTRACTS at A. Warren McClaskey, CAJ Skills and Business Education Center, Florin Technology Education Center, Fremont School for Adults, and Old Marshall Adult Education Center
230 Day Calendar	181 Day Calendar *	177 Day Calendar
First Semester: 84 Teaching Days (September 6, 2005 - January 20, 2006)
Labor Day Holiday.....................................................
First Day of Instruction for Fall Semester............................
Veterans Day Holiday..................................................
Thanksgiving Holidays.................................................
Winter Holidays.......................................................
Martin Luther King Day................................................
Last Day of Instruction for Fall Semester.............................
Second Semester: 93 Teaching Days (January 23, 2006 - June 12, 2006)
First Day of Instruction for Spring Semester..........................
Lincoln Day Holiday...................................................
Presidents’ Day Holiday...............................................
Spring Holidays.......................................................
Memorial Day Holiday..................................................
Last Day of Instruction for Spring Semester...........................
.........................Monday,	September 5, 2005
........................Tuesday,	September 6, 2005
.........................Friday,	November 11,2005
Wednesday, November 23 - Friday, November 25, 2005
......Monday, December 26 - Friday, January 6, 2006
.........................Monday, January 16, 2006
..........................Friday,	January 20 2006
.............Monday, January 23, 2006
............Monday, February 13, 2006
............Monday, February 20, 2006
Monday, April 10 - Friday, April 14, 2006
.................Monday,	May 29, 2006
.................Monday,	June 12, 2006
181 DAY CONTRACTS at Fremont School for Adults and Old Marshall Adult Education Center
First Semester: 84 Teaching Days (September 6, 2005 - January 20, 2006)
Labor Day Holiday.......................
First Day of Instruction for Fall Semester Veterans Day Holiday....................
Thanksgiving Holidays...................
Winter Holidays.........................
Martin Luther King Day..................
Last Day of Instruction for Fall Semester.
.........................Monday,	September 5, 2005
........................Tuesday,	September 6, 2005
......Friday,	November 11, 2005 Wednesday, November 23 - Friday, November 25, 2005 ......Monday, December 26 - Friday, January 6, 2006 ......Monday, January 16, 2006 ......Friday,	January 20 2006
Second Semester: 96 Teaching Days (January 23, 2006 - June 15, 2006) 1 Non-instructional Day (June 16, 2006)
First Day of Instruction for Spring Semester.
Lincoln Day Holiday........................
Presidents’ Day Holiday....................
Spring Holidays............................
Memorial Day Holiday.......................
Last Day of Instruction for Spring Semester.
Non-instructional Day......................
..............Monday, January 23, 2006
.............Monday, February 13, 2006
.............Monday, February 20, 2006
Monday, April 10 - Friday, April 14, 2006
..................Monday,	May	29,	2006
..................Monday,	June	15,	2006
..................Friday,	June	16,	2006
230 DAY CONTRACTS
230 Teaching Days at McClaskey (U Contract Teachers Only)
First Day of Instruction........................................................................................Friday, July 1, 2005
Fourth of July Holiday............................................................................................Monday,	July 4, 2005
Summer Recess 2005..............................................................................Tuesday,	July 5 - Friday, July 15, 2005
Labor Day Holiday.........................................................................................Monday, September 5, 2005
Veterans Day Holiday.......................................................................................Friday, November 11, 2005
Thanksgiving Holidays............................................................Wednesday,	November 23 - Friday, November 25, 2005
Winter Holidays.........................................................................Monday,	December 26 - Friday, January 2, 2005
Martin Luther King Day.....................................................................................Monday, January 16, 2006
Lincoln Day Holiday.......................................................................................Monday, February 13, 2006
Presidents’ Day Holiday...................................................................................Monday, February 20, 2006
Spring Holidays...............................................................................Monday,	April 10 - Friday, April 14, 2006
Memorial Day Holiday............................................................................................Monday,	May 29, 2006
Last Day of Instruction.........................................................................................Friday,	June 30, 2006
APPENDIX E - 4 ( c )
Sacramento City Unified School District
2006-07 Adult Education Calendars for Contract Employees ONLY
230 Day Calendar *	181 Day Calendar ’ 177 Day Calendar
177 DAY CONTRACTS at McClaskey Adult Center, Skills and Business Education Center, Fremont School for Adults, and Old Marshall Adult Education Center
First Semester: 84 Teaching Days (September 5, 2006 - January 19, 2007)
Labor Day Holiday..................................................................................Monday, September 4, 2006
First Day of Instruction for Fall Semester.........................................................Tuesday, September 5, 2006
Veterans Day Holiday................................................................................Friday, November 10, 2006
Thanksgiving Holidays......................................................Wednesday, November 22 - Friday, November 24, 2006
Winter Holidays.............................................................Monday, December 25, 2006 - Friday, January 5, 2007
Martin Luther King Day................................................................................Monday,	January 15, 2007
Last Day of Instruction for Fall Semester.............................................................Friday,	January 19 2007
Second Semester: 93 Teaching Days (January 22, 2007 - June 11, 2007)
First Day of Instruction for Spring Semester.
Lincoln Day Holiday........................
Presidents’ Day Holiday....................
Spring Holidays............................
Memorial Day Holiday.......................
Last Day of Instruction for Spring Semester.
...........Monday, January 22, 2007
..........Monday, February 12, 2007
..........Monday, February 19, 2007
Monday, April 2 - Friday, April 6, 2007
...............Monday,	May 28, 2007
...............Monday,	June 11, 2007
I8l DAY CONTRACTS at Fremont School for Adults and Old Marshall
First Semester: 84 Teaching Days (September 5, 2006 - January 19, 2007)
Labor Day Holiday.................................................
First Day of Instruction for Fall Semester........................
Veterans Day Holiday..............................................
Thanksgiving Holidays.............................................
Winter Holidays...................................................
Martin Luther King Day............................................
Last Day of Instruction for Fall Semester.........................
Second Semester: 96 Teaching Days (January 22, 2007 - June 14, 2007) I Non-Instructional Day (June 15, 2007)
First Day of Instruction for Spring Semester.
Lincoln Day Holiday........................
Presidents’ Day Holiday....................
Spring Holidays............................
Memorial Day Holiday.......................
Last Day of Instruction for Spring Semester. Non-Instructional Day......................
.........................Monday,	September 4, 2006
.........................Tuesday,	September 5, 2006 .........................Friday,	November 10, 2006 Wednesday, November 22 - Friday, November 24, 2006 .. Monday, December 25, 2006 - Friday, January 5, 2007 .........................Monday, January 15, 2007 .........................Friday,	January 19 2007
.............Monday,	January 22, 2007 .............Monday,	February 12, 2007
.............Monday,	February 19, 2007 Monday, April 2 - Friday, April 6, 2007 .............Monday,.May 28, 2007 .............Monday,	June 14, 2007 .............Friday,	June 15, 2007
230 DAY CONTRACTS
230 Teaching Days at Skills and Business Education Center (U Contract Teachers Only)
Summer Recess 2006.........................................................................Monday,	July 3 - Friday, July 7, 2006
Fourth of July Holiday..................................................................................Tuesday,	July 4, 2006
First Day of Instruction...............................................................................Monday,	July 10, 2006
Labor Day Holiday..................................................................................Monday,	September 4, 2006
First Day of Instruction for Fall Semester........................................................Tuesday,	September 5, 2006
Veterans Day Holiday......................................................................................Friday, November 10, 2006
Thanksgiving Holidays..........................................................Wednesday, November 22 - Friday, November 24, 2006
Winter Holidays.................................................................Monday, December 25, 2006 - Friday, January 5, 2007
Martin Luther King Day......................................................................................Monday,	January 15, 2007
Lincoln Day Holiday......................................................................................Monday, February 12, 2007
Presidents’ Day Holiday..................................................................................Monday, February 19, 2007
Spring Holidays.................................................................................Monday,	April 2 - Friday, April 6, 2007
Memorial Day Holiday...........................................................................................Monday,	May 28, 2007
Last Day of Instruction......................................................................................Thursday,	June 28, 2007
230 Teaching Days at McClaskey (U Contract Teachers Only)
Summer Recess 2006........................................
Fourth of July Holiday....................................
First Day of Instruction..................................
Labor Day Holiday.........................................
First Day of Instruction for Fall Semester................
Veterans Day Holiday......................................
Thanksgiving Holidays.....................................
Winter Holidays...........................................
Martin Luther King Day....................................
Lincoln Day Holiday.......................................
Presidents’ Day Holiday...................................
Spring Holidays...........................................
Memorial Day Holiday......................................
Last Day of Instruction...................................
...............Monday, July 3 - Friday, July I4, 2006
..............................Tuesday,	July 4, 2006
..............................Monday,	July 17, 2006
..........................Monday,	September 4, 2006
........................Tuesday,	September 5, 2006
.........................Friday,	November 10, 2006
.Wednesday, November 22 - Friday, November 24, 2006
Monday, December 25, 2006 - Monday, January I, 2007
.........................Monday, January 15, 2007
........................Monday, February 12, 2007
........................Monday, February 19, 2007
..............Monday, April 2 - Friday, April 6, 2007
.............................Monday,	May 28, 2007
.............................Friday,	June 29, 2007
APPENDIX F
Reaching Goals and Eliminating Lost Prep Time. The parties intend to support efforts to reach goals and eliminate lost prep time during weeks with holidays by establishing the following:
1.	Understandings Regarding Thanksgiving Week
Elementary preparation time will be understood to be provided during the inservice days of that week per 5.4.3.1(3) of the Contract.
If the parties agree to change the inservice days to regular teaching days, prep time for that will be provided for only those teachers with scheduled prep time on those days.
2.	In service for Management, Rep Council, New Teachers
The District and Association will collaboratively train and present at Management retreats, Rep Council, and new teacher orientation on the understandings and expectations regarding the intent of the parties to reach elementary prep goals and to eliminate prep loss during weeks with holidays.
3.	Training for Reading/Language Arts/Library Specialists
The District and Association will collaborate to provide inservice training to specialists in the areas of reading programs and library skills. The intent of the training will be to align the specialist service with the reading curriculum.
4.	The Identification of Early/Late and Non Early/Late (Sutterville) Schools
(a) Early Late Schools:
Collis P. Huntington -(Kindergarten - 3rd Grade) Crocker/Riverside Fruitridge, Primary Golden Empire - (Kindergarten Only) James Marshall - (Primary Only) John Bidwell John Cabrillo - (Kindergarten and 1st Grade)		Lisbon, Primary Maple Mark Twain, Primary Nicholas O.W. Erlewine, Primary Thomas Jefferson
(b) Non Early Late (Sutterville) Schools:
Abraham Lincoln Alice Birney A. M. Winn Bear Flag Bowling Green Bret Harte Caleb Greenwood Camellia Caroline Wenzel Cesar Chavez C. B. Wire C. P. Huntington - (Grades 4th - 6th) David Lubin Earl Warren Edward Kemble Elder Creek		John Still Joseph Bonnheim Leonardo Da Vinci Marian Anderson Mark Hopkins Martin Luther King Matsuyama Oak Ridge Pacific Parkway Peter Burnett Phoebe Hearst Pony Express Pony Express, Gate Sequoia Susan B. Anthony
Ethel I. Baker Ethel Phillips Father Keith B. Kenny Freeport Genevieve Didion Golden Empire - (Grades 1st- 6th) Hollywood Park Hubert Bancroft H. W. Harkness Isadore Cohen James Marshall - (Intermediate Only) Jedediah Smith John Morse - Waldorf John Cabrillo - (Grades 2nd- 6th) John Sloat		Sutterville Tahoe Theodore Judah Washington William Land Woodbine
(c) Non-Early Late/ Non-Sutterville:
Fruitridge Intermediate
Mark Twain Intermediate
O.W. Erlewine Intermediate
5.	The parties may agree to modify or add to these understandings as the need arises.
6.	Progress to meet the achievement of goal of 180 minutes is not grievable.
APPENDIX G
1011512004
Tentative Agreement Between
SCUSD and SCTA 2004-05/2005-06/2006-07
The Sacramento City Unified School District (SCUSD) and the Sacramento City Teachers Association (SCTA), known as the parties, have considered mutual interest and recognize the value of a long term agreement for the benefit of employees, students, and the community.
The parties also recognize both economic realities and reasonable expectations, as well as the common desire to improve academic achievement/reward employees.
The parties therefore agree to the following:
A.	The CBA will be rolled over in its entirety for 2004-05 through 2006-07, except as modified by the parties.
B.	For 2004-05, the parties agree to the following considerations:
1.	For 2004-05, the salary schedules and related stipends will increase by 1 .75 %, (1.0% due to additional on-going revenues to the District; .50% due to Health & Welfare savings; and .25% due to additional PARS savings) effective July 1, 2004. The .50% additional Health & Welfare savings as well as the additional .25% PARS savings are specific savings due only to the SCTA bargaining unit.
la. The increase that would apply to extra duty stipends will be held in abeyance to allow the parties to consider changes to the extra duty schedule issues related to gender, uniformity and mileage stipends.
lb. The parties agree to continue to work through February 15, 2005, to add one-quarter percent (.25%) to the 1.75% to reach a goal of two percent (2.0%) for 2004-05. The application of the one-quarter percent (.25%), if identified with on-going funds, will be applied in a manner agreeable to the parties.
C.	Total Compensation Increase for 2005-06 and 2006-07
1.	The parties agree to develop a mutually agreeable formula upon which a total compensation increase might be based by February 15, 2005, unless the parties mutually agree to extend the timeline; however, if there is no agreement on such a formula, the parties agree that the contract will be
1011512004
reopened for negotiations per the CBA in years two (2) and three (3) as it relates to total compensation.
la. Upon implementation of the mutually agreeable formula, the parties agree that if there is a disagreement over the percentage or if additional funds are necessary to achieve such increase, the parties agree to meet in committee to resolve the matter.
lb. The parties also agree if they are unable to resolve the matter that either party may request to renegotiate total compensation. Any changes to the CBA will be subject to mutual agreement. Nothing herein precludes the parties from identifying additional funds for additional increases.
1c. The parties agree that the process for applying the calculation of any increase will begin September 15th or thirty (30) working days after the adoption of the State budget which ever is later. The process will include the District’s notice to SCTA regarding the results of the calculation. SCTA or the District will then have the opportunity to avail the parties of the procedures outlined in la and or lb above.
D.	Additional Interests
School Improvement and Public Perception. The parties agree to identify core areas for continuous improvement. The parties agree to develop strategies and reasonable incentives by way of selected sub committees to achieve improvement. The parties agree to work together to improve the public perception of the District and SCTA’s relationship. The effort will include, but not be limited to, joint conferences, a parcel tax effort, etc.
1.	Program Improvement Schools
The parties agree to constitute a task force to review and support all program improvement schools. Recommendations relative to the CBA will be subject to negotiations and mutual agreement.
2.	Retirement
The parties agree to review the strategy for utilizing retirement incentives.
3.	Health Benefits
The parties recognize the importance and value of health and welfare benefits and are concerned about rising costs and unfunded liability. The parties agree that every reasonable effort will be made to lower premium increases for current plans without diminishing benefits or increasing co-pays except as mutually agreeable. Any recommendations relative to working conditions will be subject to the CBA.
4.	High School Improvement
The parties agree to form a multi-stakeholder task force for the purpose of supporting high schools. The task force will begin on or about December 1, 2004,
2
1011512004 zfJ>-
and shall provide a progress report to the parties by May 1, 2005. Recommendations relative to the CBA will be subject to mutual agreement and negotiations.
5.
Board with Board Committee
The SCTA and SCUSD Board agree to meet periodically to work to continue to improve relations.
6.	Compensation
The parties agree to form a task force to consider matters related to compensation, including K-12 comparability, adult ed pay, children center pay and psychologist pay. The task force will begin meeting on or about March 1, 2005. Any recommendations are subject to mutual agreement of the parties.
7.	Intermediate Level
The parties agree to form a task force to study class size levels at grades 4, 5 & 6 at elementary schools. The task force will begin on or before January 15, 2005, and shall provide a progress report to the parties by May 1, 2005. Recommendations are subject to mutual agreement of the parties.
Date	Date
Date	Date
Date	Date
Subject to approval of the parties’ governing boards.
APPENDIX H
PAR/Support Program (Peer Assistance and Review)
1.	SCTA and the District (referred to as the parties) intend to negotiate a mutually beneficial PAR/Support program subject to approval of the Governing Board of Education of the District and the SCTA Board of Directors by June 1, 2000.
2.	The parties intend to qualify for the program.
3.	The parties intend that components will meet the intent of the law.
4.	The parties intend to emphasize support for newer teachers and assistance and
support for veteran teachers.
5.	The District will notify the state by June 30, 2000 that the parties have jointly designed and agreed to implement a PAR program effective July 1, 2000. By August 1, 2000 the District will notify the state they have implemented PAR program.
6/28/00
Peer Assistance and Review (PAR) Program
CONTRACT LANGUAGE
Appendix H
The SCTA (Association) and the SCUSD (District), known as the "parties", are continuously striving to provide the highest possible quality of education. In order for students to succeed in learning, teachers must succeed in teaching. Therefore, the parties agree to cooperate in the design and implementation of programs to improve the quality of instruction through expanded and improved professional development and peer assistance. Teachers referred to or who volunteer for the program are viewed as valued professionals and the parties, in good faith, will endeavor to provide resources as available to help improve performance.
1.	Joint Committee (JC)
A.	The Joint Committee shall consist of seven (7) members, the majority of whom shall be certificated classroom teachers who are chosen to serve by the Association. The District shall choose the administrators of the Joint Committee.
B.	The Joint Committee shall establish its own meeting schedule. To meet, two-thirds of the members of the Joint Committee must be present. Such meetings shall take place during the regular teacher workday. Teachers who are members of the Joint Committee shall be released by the District from their regular duties to attend meetings, without loss of pay or benefits. The Joint Committee (SCTA) members will receive a yearly stipend still to be determined by the parties.
C.	The Joint Committee shall be responsible for the following:
1.	Providing annual training for the Joint Committee members.
2.	Establishing its own rules of procedure, including the method for the
selection of a Chairperson.
3.	Selecting the panel of Consulting Teachers.
4.	Selecting trainers and/or training providers. As possible the committee will link with The Center for Teaching Excellence, or any other entity from inside or outside the District, for training and best practices experience.
5.	Providing training for Consulting Teachers prior to the Consulting Teacher's participation in the program.
6.	Sending written notification of participation in the PAR program to the Referred Participating Teachers, the Consulting Teachers and the site principal.
7.	Making available the panel of Consulting Teachers for selection by the Participating Teacher.
8.	Adopting Rules and Procedures to effect the provisions of this Article. Said Rules and Procedures will be consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, and to the extent there is an inconsistency, the Agreement will prevail.
9.	Distributing, at the beginning of each school year, a summary copy of the adopted Rules and Procedures to all bargaining unit members and administrators as possible.
10.	Establishing a procedure for application as a Consulting Teacher.
11.	Determining the number of Consulting Teachers in any school year, based upon participation in the PAR Program, the budget available and other relevant considerations.
12.	Reviewing the final report prepared by the Consulting Teacher and making recommendations to the Governing Board regarding the Referred Participating Teacher's progress in the PAR Program.
13.	Evaluating annually the impact of the PAR Program in order to improve the
program.
14.	Supervising, evaluating, and assigning the consulting teachers.
D.	Except as otherwise legally required, all proceedings, observations and documentation under the PAR program shall be maintained as confidential. Any PAR records shall not become part of the teacher's personnel file in accordance with section 44031 of the Education Code and shall not be used by the District or any Participating Teacher in any administrative proceedings before the Commission on Teacher Credentialing or the Commission on Professional Competence. To the extent permitted by law the parties' intent is that the records be considered personnel records for the purpose of exempting the records from public disclosure under the Public Records Act. The Joint Committee members and Consulting Teachers may disclose such information only as necessary to administer this Article.
E.	The District agrees to indemnify and hold harmless and provide a defense to the Association and any Association-selected member of the Joint Committee against any claims, causes of action, damages, grievances, administrative proceedings or any other litigation arising from the Association's participation in Peer Assistance and Peer Review.
2.	Participating Teachers (PT)
A.	A Referred Participating Teacher is a teacher with permanent status who receives assistance to improve his or her instructional skills, classroom management, knowledge of subject, and/or related aspects of his or her teaching performance as a result of an unsatisfactory final evaluation. The purpose of the participation is for peer assistance only and the consulting teachers shall not participate in the evaluation of the referred teacher. The summary unsatisfactory evaluation (4 or 5) shall be based on the average of the teacher's ratings.
B.	A Volunteer Participating Teacher is a teacher with permanent status who volunteers to participate in the PAR Program. The purpose of participation in the PAR Program for the Volunteer Participating Teacher is for peer assistance only and the Consulting Teacher shall not participate in a performance review of the Volunteer Participating Teacher. The Volunteer PT may terminate his or her participation in the PAR Program at any time.
C.	A Referred Participating Teacher may select his or her Consulting Teacher from the panel of Consulting Teachers provided by the Joint Committee. A different Consulting Teacher may be selected to work with the Participating Teacher at any time during the process when requested to do so by the Participating Teacher or the Consulting Teacher.
2
D.	For purposes of evaluations, all communication between the Consulting Teacher and a Volunteer Participating Teacher shall be confidential, and without the written consent of the Volunteer, shall not be shared with others, including the site principal, the evaluator or the Joint Committee.
E.	The Participating Teacher has the right to be represented throughout these procedures by the Association.
3.	Consulting Teachers (CT)
A.	A Consulting Teacher is a teacher who provides assistance to a Participating Teacher pursuant to the PAR Program. The qualifications for the Consulting Teacher shall be set forth in the Rules and Procedures, provided that the following shall constitute minimum qualification:
1.	A credentialed classroom teacher with permanent status.
2.	Substantial recent experience in classroom instruction. At least three prior years of classroom experience.
3.	Shall demonstrate exemplary teaching ability, as indicated by, among other things, effective communication skills, subject matter knowledge, and mastery of a range of teaching strategies necessary to meet the needs of pupils in different contexts.
B.	In filling a position of Consulting Teacher, each applicant is required to submit three references from individuals with specific knowledge of his or her expertise, as follows:
a. A reference from a building principal or immediate supervisor, b. A reference from an Association representative.
c. A reference from another classroom teacher.
C.	Consulting Teachers shall be selected by a majority vote of the Joint Committee.
D.	A Consulting Teacher shall be provided reasonable release time consistent with the guidelines of the Joint Committee. The term of the Consulting Teachers shall be three (3) years, and a teacher may not serve in the position for more than one (1) consecutive term. A teacher applying for a Consulting Teacher position must agree not to apply for an administrative position in the District while serving as a Consulting Teacher or for one (1) school year after serving as a Consulting Teacher. The Consulting Teacher agrees not to divulge any information about the PAR program and shall sign a confidentiality statement.
DI. Consulting teachers may job share subject to available funds and agreement by the District and SCTA. The intent is for each to teach one-half (1/2) time. Such teachers shall receive full pay and all benefits. The Consulting Teacher shall receive a stipend in accordance with D2.
D2. Alternatively, if the Consulting Teachers do not job share they shall receive a yearly stipend still to be determined by the parties. The hours and pay will be in accordance with the District/SCTA agreement.
3
E.	Functions performed pursuant to this Article by bargaining unit employees shall not constitute either management or supervisory functions. The Consulting Teacher shall retain all rights of bargaining unit members.
F.	Upon completion of his/her service as a full time released Consulting Teacher, a teacher shall be returned to a regular assignment in accordance with Article 8, Transfer Rights, of the District/SCTA Agreement.
G.	Consulting Teachers shall have the responsibility for no more than three (3) Participating Teachers. Each Referred Participating Teacher shall receive no less than fifteen (15) hours of assistance per semester from the Consulting Teacher. Consulting Teachers shall assist Participating Teachers by demonstrating, observing, coaching, conferencing, referring or by other activities, which, in their professional judgment, will assist the Participating Teacher.
H.	The Consulting Teacher shall meet with the Referred Participating Teachers to discuss the PAR Program, to establish mutually agreed upon performance goals, develop the assistance plan and develop a process for determining successful completion of the PAR Program.
I.	The Consulting Teacher shall conduct multiple observations of the Participating Teacher and shall provide periodic written reports to the Referred Participating Teacher for discussion and review.
J.	The Consulting Teacher shall monitor the progress of the Referred Participating Teacher and shall provide periodic written reports to the Referred Participating Teacher for discussion and review.
K.	The Consulting Teacher shall continue to provide assistance to the Referred Participating Teacher until he or she concludes that the teaching performance of the Participating Teacher is satisfactory, or that further assistance will not be productive. A copy of the Consulting Teachers' report shall be submitted to and discussed with the Referred Participating Teacher. The Consulting Teacher may confer and share information and documentation as necessary with the Joint Committee. There shall be no final report addressed to the Joint Committee. The Referred Participating Teacher shall have the right to request a meeting with the Joint Committee, and to be represented at this meeting by the Association.
L.	The results of the Referred Participating Teacher's participation in the PAR Program shall not be made available for placement in his or her personnel file, and may not be used in the evaluation of the Referred Participating Teacher.
M.	The District agrees to indemnify and provide a defense for the Consulting Teacher against any claims, causes of action, damages, grievances, administrative proceedings or any other litigation arising from the Consulting Teacher's participation in Peer Assistance and Peer Review.
4
APPENDIX H-l
Memorandum of Understanding
Between
Sacramento City Unified School District
And
Sacramento City Teachers Association
Concerning the
Peer Assistance and Review Program
RECITAL
This agreement is intended to align existing Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) language pertaining to the Peer Assistance and Review Program with Education Code § 44500. Education Code § 44500 states, “the final evaluation of a teacher’s participation in the program shall be made available for placement in the personnel file of the teacher receiving assistance.”
TERMS OF AGREEMENT
The Sacramento City Unified School District hereinafter called the “District,” and the Sacramento City Teachers Association, hereinafter called the “Association.” The District and Association are collectively referred to throughout this Agreement as the “Parties,” hereby agree to the following terms of this agreement:
1.	Neither the District nor the Association admit that there has been a violation or nonviolation of the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA); however, for the purpose of harmonizing the Tentative Agreement between the Parties regarding the Peer Assistance and Review (PAR) Program dated June 28, 2000, and Education Code § 44500 as it relates to the placement of the final evaluation into a teacher’s personnel file who has participated in the program, the Parties agree to the following:
1.1	In accordance with the above-cited Education Code, the voluntary participating teacher may choose to place their final evaluation regarding their participation in the PAR program into their personnel file.
2.	The Parties agree that this Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) satisfies all understandings of their respective parties and any other concerns pertaining to issues related to this matter. Further, the Association will not pursue any other action pertaining to any of the issues addressed in this matter.
3.	This MOU shall not be construed by either party as an interpretation of any provision of the District/Associations CBA or any rule, policy or procedure.
S	3 - -b/ -0
Date	y	Date
C:PAR Language Alignment w Ed Code 44500 MQU.doc
APPENDIX I
Jointly Funded Benefits Trust
1.	Upon ratification of the agreement, parties agree to immediately begin
negotiating for a jointly funded cost neutral retirement benefit trust fund to address long-term retirement issues. Negotiations should conclude by late summer. Any agreements must be mutually arrived at.
APPENDIX J
State Education Reform
1. The parties agree to form a joint committee to work on helping teachers deal with the increased challenges and responsibilities brought by state education reform.
APPENDIX K
Topics for Staff Development
2004-2005
The District will identify the sessions:
Curriculum Content: Core Language Arts Curriculum implementation. The six (6) hours of Staff Development are strongly recommended and can be achieved either by the core language arts material, intervention material and / or California Professional Development Institute (CPDI) after July 1, 2004, which include:*
-	Saxon Math
-	Review of Courses of Study as Related to Content Standards
-	Open Court for K-6
-	Holt Language Arts for Middle Schools
-	High Point for ELD Instruction for 4-8
-	ELD Intervention Strategies K-12
■	Pedagogy: Reading / Writing Process and Language Acquisition
■	Effective Delivery of Instruction
■	Secondary School-Wide Instructional Improvement
■	On-going Assessment
■	Instructional Support Structures
■	Shared Decision Making
■	Promotion / Retention / Intervention
■	Report Card Expectations - Details on its implementation
■	Student Disciplinary Procedures/School-wide Discipline Procedures
■	Other topics mutually agreed upon by the District and SCTA
■	Other courses provided in Staff Development Catalog
*The content of the Staff Development shall be determined by the individual school siteplan(s).
APPENDIX L
Topics for Staff Development
2005/2006
The District will identify the sessions:
Curriculum Content: Core Language Arts Curriculum implementation. The six (6) hours of Staff Development are strongly recommended and can be achieved either by the core language arts material, intervention material and / or California Professional Development Institute (CPDI) after July 1, 2005, which include:*
-	Saxon Math
-	Review of Courses of Study as Related to Content Standards
-	Open Court for K-6
-	Holt Language Arts for Middle Schools
-	High Point for ELD Instruction for 4-8
-	ELD Intervention Strategies K-12
■	Pedagogy: Reading / Writing Process and Language Acquisition
■	Effective Delivery of Instruction
■	Secondary School-Wide Instructional Improvement
■	On-going Assessment
■	Instructional Support Structures
■	Shared Decision Making
■	Promotion / Retention / Intervention
■	Report Card Expectations - Details on its implementation
■	Student Disciplinary Procedures/School-wide Discipline Procedures
■	Other topics mutually agreed upon by the District and SCTA
■	Other courses provided in Staff Development Catalog
*The content of the Staff Development shall be determined by the individual school siteplan(s).
APPENDIX M
School Improvement and Public Perception. The parties agree to identify core areas for continuous improvement. The parties agree to develop strategies and reasonable incentives by way of selected sub committees to achieve improvement. The parties agree to work together to improve the public perception of the District and SCTA’s relationship. The effort will include, but not be limited to, joint conferences, a parcel tax effort, etc.
1.	Program Improvement Schools
The parties agree to constitute a task force to review and support all program improvement schools. Recommendations relative to the CBA will be subject to negotiations and mutual agreement.
2.	High School Improvement
The parties agree to form a multi-stakeholder task force for the purpose of supporting high schools.
The task force will begin on or about December 1, 2004, and shall provide a progress report to the parties by May 1, 2005. Recommendations relative to the CBA will be subject to mutual agreement and negotiations.
3.	Board with Board Committee
The SCTA and SCUSD Board agree to meet periodically to work to continue to improve relations.
4.	Intermediate Level
The parties agree to form a task force to study class size levels at grades 4, 5 & 6 at elementary schools. The task force will begin on or before January 15, 2005, and shall provide a progress report to the parties by May 1, 2005. Recommendations are subject to mutual agreement of the parties.