Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Kenosha Unified School District and Kenosha Education Association (KEA), Wisconsin Education Association Council (WEAC), National Education Association (NEA), (2003)
K#: 830760
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1 Kenosha, Wisconsin
TEACHER SALARY AND WELFARE AGREEMENT
The School Board of the Kenosha Unified School District (hereinafter called "District") recognizes the Kenosha Education Association (hereinafter called "Association") as the statutory collective bargaining agent for all regular full-time and all regular part-time certificated teaching personnel employed by the District, but excluding all other employes, supervisors, and administrators. The District and the Association have entered into this Agreement concerning the wages, hours and conditions of employment of the school teachers during the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2003 ending June 30, 2005.
I.	WORKING CONDITIONS
A. Teaching Hours and Teaching Load
1.	Teaching Hours
a.	Every elementary teacher shall schedule at least one parent conference per pupil each semester. These conferences shall be coordinated by the principal.
Special education teachers shall prepare at least one IEP and conduct one IEP parent conference per pupil during the school year. The days for writing lEP's and conducting IEP parent conferences shall be coordinated by the principal.
b.	Teachers shall be required to attend staff meetings at the call of the Principal. Reasonable effort will be made to limit such meetings to the following:
(1)	One day of each month for building meetings called by the Principal of each building.
(2)	One day of each month for department meetings or special group meetings.
(3)	Reasonable effort will be made to limit staff meetings to one (1) hour durations.
c.	The minimum duty free lunch period for teachers will be thirty (3 0) minutes and they may leave the school during this time.
d.	The teacher workday, including the lunch period, shall be seven (7) hours and thirty (30) minutes for all teachers.
e.	The job share procedure will be as follows. Each teacher will teach the same number of hours each day. A schedule developed by the staff will specify the subjects/areas for which each teacher is responsible as well as scheduled times for common preparation/communication.
Each teacher will be present for all staff meetings, parent/teacher conferences, staff development sessions, and early release meetings with no additional compensation.
The teachers must agree concerning which teacher is to receive a 51% Full Time Equivalent (FTE) contract and receive insurance benefits and which teacher is to receive a 49% FTE contract which does not include insurance benefits. Sick days are pro-rated basis according to FTE.
If the job share is terminated, the job share teacher with the least seniority in the District will be placed on the reassignment list if there is not a full-time position at the job share school.
Job share agreements are contingent upon approval from the teachers and principals involved, as well as the Director of Personnel.
2.	Orientation
All new teachers, and all new teachers who have been hired into the District after the current school year’s orientation, shall attend a three-day orientation without pay.
3.	Teaching Load
a.	Teacher participation in extra-curricular activities outside the normal teaching hours will be considered voluntary, except if the teacher, when he/she is initially hired, agrees to accept an Appendix C assignment, and this was expressly stated on the individual's original employment contract and up to three (3) years thereafter and except as expressly provided in Article II, E. Resignations after this time are contingent upon a qualified replacement accepting the Appendix C assignment. If the employe desires to resign, the District will post the vacancy and attempt to find a replacement. Notice of resignation shall be given by April 15 of the school year which completes the four (4) year commitment. The employe will be released from his/her commitment within one (1) school year of resigning regardless of whether a qualified replacement is found.
b.	The District will make reasonable efforts to comply with DPI recommended staffing guidelines contingent on budget and staffing parameters.
II.	TEACHER ASSIGNMENT
A.	Assignment of Teaching Field
In accordance with past and present practice, teachers shall not be assigned, except temporarily and for good cause, outside the scope of their teaching certificate or their major or minor field of study.
2
B.	Posting of Vacancies
In accordance with past and present practice, lists of vacancies existing after the 15th of April of each year shall be posted regularly in each building unit and in the Office of the Association, so that teachers desiring reassignment may be advised of open positions.
Effective for the 2002-2003 school year, employees desiring end of the year retirements must notify the District on or before January 15 of his/her intention to retire. The District will post all positions that are vacant for the following school year by the first business day in February. An updated posting containing all vacancies for the following year will be posted by the first business day in May. Thereafter, postings will continue every week. The postings referenced herein are in addition to the postings the District provides weekly that indicate which positions are continuously vacant.
C.	Teachers' Schedules
1.	Teachers shall continue to be notified in writing of any change in their programs and schedules for the ensuing school year, including the schools to which they will be assigned, the grades and/or subjects they will teach, and any special or unusual courses or assignments that they will have prior to the close of the school year. This shall not preclude the changing of assignments in the light of changed circumstances. Notification of such change in assignments shall be made immediately upon knowledge of such changed circumstances. Reasonable effort shall be made to notify the affected teachers prior to August 1 of the coming school year.
2.	In arranging schedules for the teachers who are assigned to more than one school, reasonable effort will be made to limit the amount of inter-school travel. Such teachers shall be notified of any change in their schedules as soon as practicable.
D.	Promotions
All vacancies in promotional positions, within the bargaining unit, including specialists and/or special projects teachers, shall be filled pursuant to the following procedure.
1.	Such vacancies shall be adequately publicized which shall mean as a minimum that a notice shall be conspicuously posted in every school clearly setting forth a description of and the qualifications for the position, including the duties and salary.
2.	Such notice shall be posted as far in advance as possible ordinarily at least thirty (30) days before the final date when applications must be submitted, and in no event less than two (2) weeks before such date.
3.	Teachers who desire to apply for such vacancies shall submit their applications in writing to the Office of Personnel within the time limit specified in the notice.
3
E.	Staff Reducti on
1.	Teachers shall be laid off in inverse order of their employment within their areas of certification plus other credentials. When a teacher who is to be laid off has an Appendix C assignment: 1) Appendix C shall be amended to permit coaches to have more than one head coaching position on a voluntary basis; 2) the District shall post the vacancy throughout the School District for a period of fifteen (15) days during the school year, thirty (30) days after the close of the school year and seven (7) days after August 1, and authorize a qualified replacement to serve in the coaching assignment at a school other than his/her teaching assignment. The Board shall have the right to involuntarily assign least senior qualified teachers to the Appendix C assignments previously held by teachers who are laid off after the following steps have been taken to fill the vacancies: 1) Attempt to find a qualified volunteer from the building; 2) Attempt to find a qualified volunteer from the District. The Board retains the sole right to determine the relative qualifications for Appendix C assignments. Teachers may not be involuntarily assigned to more than one (1) Appendix C assignment annually.
2.	Such teachers shall be reinstated in inverse order of their being laid off, if qualified to fill the vacancies. Such reinstatement shall not result in a loss of credit for previous years of service. No new appointments may be made while there are laid off teachers available who are fully qualified to fill the vacancies.
3.	A teacher whose position is eliminated in one school shall be reassigned to a vacant staff position for which he/she is fully qualified in accordance with Article XIII. In the event a vacancy does not exist the teacher shall be reassigned to the position held by the teacher with the fewest years of continuous employment, within another subject area or grade level provided he/she meets the following requirements: The teacher
a.	is currently certified to teach in that position and
b.	has taught in that subject area or grade level within the last five years or,
c.	has taken at least six credits in the subj ect area or grade level within the last five
years.
In addition to the criteria identified in Item 3, teachers holding the position identified below must meet additional criteria established by the Board: Deans of Students, Teacher Consultants, Program Support teachers, Single Parent Program teachers, and Infant Lab teachers.
5.	No teacher may be prevented from securing other employment during the period he/she is laid off under this section.
6.	Teachers scheduled for layoff shall be given notice of same on or before August 1.
7.	Effective July 1, 2001, contracted teachers shall have Letter of Appointment years of service count towards purposes of Article E, Staff Reduction.
4
8.	Both the Association and the District agree that the timeline to operationalize this language is contingent upon when the 2003-05 state budget is finalized.
a.	Reduction in Work Force Prevention Procedures
(1)	In order to minimize the number of bargaining unit personnel to be laid off, the administration shall attempt the following preventive reduction in work force measures:
(a)	Normal attrition of bargaining unit personnel.
(b)	Solicitation of qualified volunteers
(c)	Offer to extend all unpaid leaves for one (1) school year to persons in the bargaining unit.
(d)	Approve all unpaid leave requests for one (1) school year, for any reason, for persons in the bargaining unit.
b.	Layoff Procedure
All layoffs shall be based on inverse order of seniority within qualifications as set forth in the following procedures.
(1)	Solicit Qualified Volunteers for Layoff
At least ninety (90) calendar days prior to a layoff, the District shall solicit volunteers who wish to be considered for layoff. A qualified volunteer is a teacher who is employed in a position identified for reduction and/or whose position can be filled by a teacher who might otherwise be laid off. All teachers who volunteer for layoff and who are qualified for volunteers shall be laid off first. A teacher who volunteers for layoff shall volunteer for one (1) school year, after which the teacher is subject to all recall procedures. If the layoff is not for the duration of the entire school year and if all teachers other than volunteers are recalled within the volunteer's area of certification/licensure, the volunteers are then subj ect to the recall procedures. If there are more qualified volunteers than the number of positions to be reduced, volunteering for layoff shall be in order of the volunteer's District-wide seniority. No teacher shall be involuntarily laid off if enough qualified volunteers are available.
(2)	Certification/Licensure Requirements in order to Exercise Seniority
A teacher must hold a full certification/license on May 15 in order for a teacher to exercise seniority rights within that area of certification/licensure. A teacher holding a temporary certification/license or permit, a certification/license that has expired, or is eligible for additional certification, must present verification from his/her certifying institution or the DPI prior to July 1, that the employee can obtain (a) full certification/licensure, (b) renew an expired certification/license, or (c) obtain additional certification no later than the organization day of the following school year in order to utilize District-wide seniority in the area he/she holds temporary certification/license, an expired certification/license, or is eligible for additional certification. If it is not possible for the teacher to verify (a), (b), or (c) no later than the organization day of the following school year, the teacher shall not have seniority
5
rights in the area of temporary certification/licensure, the area of a certification/license which has expired, or the area he/she sought additional certification/licensure. If an employee verified (a), (b), or (c) and fails to be eligible for (a), (b), or (c) by organization day of the following school year, he/she shall be replaced with the most senior teacher on layoff having certification/licensure in the area in which the teacher held temporary certification/ licensure, held an expired license, or sought additional certification/licensure.
(3)	Employees Identified for Layoff
The District shall determine the number of employees District-wide to be laid off by subject areas, grade levels, certification/licensure areas, and/or other areas of assignment not included in the foregoing, and establish a list of qualified volunteers and other certified bargaining unit personnel, by name, who have the least amount of Di strict-wide seniority by their certification/licensure area(s) and/or other areas of assignment not included in the foregoing that is equal to the number identified above. Bargaining unit personnel who have additional certification/licensure may use this certification to displace less senior teachers in those areas of licensure.
c.	Notification of Layoff
(1)	Prior Notice in Writing
Bargaining unit personnel who have been identified for layoff, shall be notified in writing of the layoff by the District at least ninety (90) days prior to said layoff.
(2)	Notification to Association
The Association will be given a list of those employees who have been tentatively identified for layoff prior to the notice to the employee.
(3)	Notice by Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested
The notification of layoff shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the teacher's address on the payroll file. It shall be the teacher's responsibility to keep the address on the payroll file current by filing a change of address card with the District. The District shall mail to the Association a copy of each teacher's notification.
(4)	Notice Contents and Information
The notification of layoff shall contain the fact that the teacher is laid off, the fact that he/she is subject to recall and a copy of the negotiated layoff provisions.
d.	Rights of Employees on Layoff
(1)	Length of Recall Rights
Recall rights shall be extended to a teacher for one (1) year from the
6
date of layoff.
(2)	Health Insurance
A teacher who is laid off shall be treated in the same manner as an employee on an unpaid leave. Self-paid coverage must be continuous from the time of layoff. Eligibility ceases after COBRA benefits end.
(3)	Dental Insurance
A teacher who is laid off shall be treated in the same manner as an employee on an unpaid leave. Self-paid coverage must be continuous from the time of layoff. Eligibility ceases after COBRA benefits end.
(4)	Group Life Insurance
Teachers enrolled in the group life insurance plan at the time of layoff may continue in the plan. These teachers will be treated in the same manner as a teacher on an unpaid leave. Self-paid coverage must be continuous from the time of layoff. Eligibility ceases after COBRA benefits end.
(5)	Death Benefit
A teacher on layoff, who is enrolled in the death benefit, may continue the benefit on a self-paid basis by paying the premium as billed by the District on a monthly basis.
(6)	Accumulated Sick Leave
A teacher on layoff shall retain unused accumulated sick leave at the time of layoff. Upon recall, teachers shall be credited with the amount of sick leave accumulated earned up to the time of layoff.
(7)	Other Employment
A teacher on layoff shall not be prevented from securing other employment during the period he/she is laid off. The District agrees that any laid-off teacher who accepts other employment retains recall rights. If the teacher is notified of a recall while employed with a different school district, the teacher shall be allowed to conclude the school year with the other district provided there are teachers on layoff in the teacher's area of certification/licensure that can be recalled. If not, then the teacher would be subject to the recall procedure.
e.	Recall Procedure
(1)	Determination of Recall
District administration shall determine the subject areas and number of
7
positions in which recall will be made and the number of teachers to be recalled.
(2)	Additional Certification While on Layoff
Whenever a teacher on layoff status obtains additional certification/licensure and files it with the District, he/she shall also be eligible for recall in his/her additional area of certification/licensure.
(3)	From Layoff
A teacher on layoff shall be recalled to a vacancy for which the employee is qualified in order of District-wide seniority. A teacher shall be offered such assignment and shall only have the right to refuse such assignment without waiving recall rights as defined in D. 7.
(4)	Notification of Recall
The notification of recall shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the teacher's address on the payroll file. It is the teacher's responsibility to keep his/her address on the payroll file current by filing a change of address card with the District. The District shall mail to the Association a copy of each teacher's recall notification.
(5)	Response to Recall
A teacher will have ten (10) days from receipt of the recall notice to respond, and a maximum of thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to report to work.
(6)	Failure to Respond or Refusal of Recall
If a teacher on layoff does not respond to the offer to be recalled within the ten (10) days or he/she refuses to be recalled, the teacher then waives any further rights except those benefits which are prepaid prior to layoff. In the event that a teacher is unable to report within the prescribed time limits by reason of illness, injury, or other personal emergency, he/she shall not forfeit his/her recall rights provided notice of such circumstances is given to the District in writing within the time period that the teacher is required to respond to the recall notice and provided he/she notified the District when he/she is able to be recalled. Volunteers for layoff and teachers on layoff who have accepted other employment with a different school district are subject to the recall procedures.
(7)	No New Employees or Substitutes in Vacant Positions
No vacant position shall be filled by a substitute or a newly hired teacher while there are teachers on layoff who are qualified to fill the vacant position. This provision is not intended to operate in a manner that prevents classes from being taught during recall procedures.
III.	SALARIES
8
A.	2003-04 and 2004-05 Teacher Salary Schedules
The basic salary schedule for all persons covered by this Agreement is set forth in Appendices A-l and A-2, which are attached hereto and made a part hereof.
B.	Payroll Dates
The compensation plan covered by the Agreement is set forth in Appendix F which is attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Teachers may electtoreceivetheir salary in 21 or 26 equal installments. Continuing teachers must elect which payroll option they desire on or before July 15. Once a teacher has made such an election, the election shall be irrevocable for the school year. Newly hired teachers may elect their payroll option at the time they sign their teaching contracts. If a continuing teacher does not elect an option on or before July 15, the teacher will be deemed to have elected the option selected the prior year.
If and when the District is able to implement direct deposit of paychecks pursuant to Article III. A. the District will make the authorized deductions from said pay checks in equal deductions over either 21 or 26 paychecks, depending on the salary payment option selected by the employee.
C.	Retirement Contribution
The District shall contribute to the Wisconsin Retirement System an amount equal to the employee’s full contribution based on each teacher’s basic salary as set forth in Appendix A. Such dollar equivalents are set forth in Appendix B.
D.	Compensation - Other Services
1.	Personnel performing such extra-curricular duties as specified in Appendix C shall be compensated as set forth in Appendix C.
2.	Personnel performing additional services as specified in Appendix D, shall be compensated as set forth in Appendix D.
E.	Teacher Substitutes
Effective April 8, 2002, if a teacher is required to act in the capacity of a substitute teacher thereby reducing the teacher's available preparation time, that teacher will receive compensation of $9.00 for each assignment of thirty (30) minutes or less; and $18.00 for each assignment of thirty-one (31) minutes to sixty (60) minutes; and $27.00 for each assignment of sixty-one (61) minutes or more.
It is further understood that whenever an employee represented by the teacher bargaining unit is directed by administration to work during his/her prep time, sub pay will be granted. Pay for this provision shall not exceed ninety (90) minutes per day.
9
F.
Credit for Military Service
Credit will be given on the salary schedule for military service up to a maximum of three (3) years.
G.	Credit for Prior Experience
Any newly employed teacher contracted by the District shall be allowed an increment on the Teachers' Salary Schedule for each full year of full-time prior teaching experience up to and including eight (8) years. If credit for military service is allowed, this credit shall be included in the maximum of eight (8) years allowed for prior experience. Effective July 1, 1998, any newly employed teacher contracted by the District shall be allowed an increment on the Teachers Salary Schedule for each full year of full-time prior teaching experience. If credit for military service is allowed, this credit shall be included in the years allowed for prior experience. Effective July 1, 1998, the District may grant up to five (5) increment steps on the Teachers’ Salary Schedule at the time of hire for other experience which the District deems to be relevant. Credit for prior teaching experience or other experience not claimed at the time of initial employment shall not subsequently be allowed, provided the newly employed teacher was advised of this clause prior to employment.
H.	The formula for compensating staff who agree to extended day contracts will be as follows: The staff person’s annual salary divided by 1316 multiplied by 180 days or the number of days taught during the quarter (hourly rate). This formula will be modified in the event the staff person begins working an extended day contract after the start of the school year (actual number of student contact days will be used instead of 180).
IV.	CREDITS FOR ADVANCED SALARY STATUS
A.	Requirements
1.	The parties mutually recognize the need for having teaching personnel involved in professional activities designed to enhance their effectiveness as teachers and counselors. It is further recognized that advances being made in the field of education require continued efforts by educators to increase their proficiencies and knowledge, and thereby to increase the quality of their service to the District.
2.	Teachers holding a degree below the Masters level are expected to maintain professional growth by earning at least four (4) credits during each six (6) year period. Such credits shall be semester hour credits or their equivalent, and may be earned through accredited correspondence work, summer
sessions, or any other course work at an accredited institution of higher learning. Up to but not more than three (3) of these credits may be earned in District inservice courses or approved travel.
3.	Teaching personnel holding an approved Masters degree are expected to maintain professional growth by earning at least three (3) credits during each six (6) year period. Such credits shall be semester hour credits or their equivalent, and may be earned through accredited correspondence work,
10
summer sessions, course work at an accredited institution of higher learning, approved travel, or in District inservice courses and curriculum work.
4.	Subsections (2) and (3) above shall not apply to:
a.	Teaching personnel who have reached the age of fifty-five (55) prior to January 1 of the first year of the six (6) year period.
b.	Teaching personnel who present written requests with substantiating evidence of undue personal hardship shall be allowed to postpone their professional improvement requirement for one year.
c.	Teaching personnel who have reached the MA+24 lane.
5.	Failure to meet the foregoing minimum requirements for professional improvements shall be deemed failure to meet the standards of satisfactory performance as a staff member, and shall result in recall of the individual teaching contract. A new contract will be issued. The rate of compensation in the new contract will be based on the increment step of the previous contract and will include any negotiated salary increases. Thereafter, no advances to higher increment steps will be permitted until the requirements are met. When the requirements are satisfied, adjustment in salary shall be to the increment step appropriate to the individual's level of training and experience.
6.	a. The period for acquiring professional improvement credits for teachers continuously under contract since the 1971-72 school year shall begin as of January 1, 1972.
b. The period for acquiring professional improvement credits shall begin with the first school year of employment.
B.	Procedure
The following stated provisions govern the certification, evaluation, and validation of all credits recognized for complying with the minimum requirements for professional improvement and for advanced status on the salary schedule.
1.	Compensating salary adjustments for additional credits earned pursuant to the provisions of the Teachers' Salary Schedule shall be made at any time during a school year and within a thirty (30) day period after proper certification is received from the college or university by the Director of Personnel if pre-approval of credits is on file. Effective July 1, 1996, compensating salary adjustments for additional credits earned pursuant to the provisions of the Teachers’ Salary Schedule shall be made twice per year, effective October 1st (for official transcripts with additional pre-approved credits received by the Director of Personnel by September 30th) and February 1st (for official transcripts with additional preapproved credits received by the Director of Personnel by January 31 st). If credits have been received before they have been approved by the Superintendent or designee, then the adjustment shall be made effective for the period (either October 1 or February 1) in which the credits are approved. Approval or denial of such credits shall be made within thirty (30) days after submission of the credits for approval. Forms provided by the District will be used whether filing for pre-approval or filing for approval after credits have been taken.
11
2.	Credits submitted for advancement on the salary schedule shall be subj ect to evaluation
and approval of the Superintendent of Schools or designee. Credits shall be approved when they are acceptable to a regionally accredited college or university and are (a) courses related to the candidate's teaching assignment and not previously taken, and/or (b) for a graduate degree related to the candidate's teaching assignment and/or the field of education and/or (c) additional certification in the field of education, except as provided in the provisions of this Agreement for the earning of credits for travel, inservice education, and study with an acknowledged authority. No remuneration or advancement on the salary schedule shall be given for credits required as a condition of initial appointment.
3.	Inservice education credits may be earned toward advancement on the salary schedule and/or toward meeting minimum requirements for professional improvement as specified in this Agreement, for local curriculum study planned and executed under the direct supervision of the Coordinator of Staff Development or the Superintendent of Schools. Such credits will be awarded on the basis of one (1) credit for each fifteen (15) hours of satisfactory work undertaken in regular session plus an equal amount of supporting outside study undertaken and completed after regular school hours, or one (1) credit for each thirty (30) hours of summer curriculum study. Teachers wishing to qualify for credit under this provision must file a written statement of intent with the Coordinator of Staff Development prior to the time at which the curriculum work will be started. The credit provided for this section must be certified to in writing by the Coordinator of Staff Development and such certification shall be filed in the Office of Personnel.
4.	All plans for travel credit shall have prior approval by a committee composed of three (3) teachers and three (3) administrators appointed by the Superintendent. The teacher members shall be appointed for three year staggered terms. No teacher member may serve more than two terms. Each year a teacher shall be appointed from a list of two submitted by the Association. This committee shall evaluate and validate travel credit.
a.	Travel credits not to exceed five (5) of the total credits for adjustment on the Teachers' Salary Schedule may be accepted for credit for teachers possessing a Baccalaureate degree.
b.	Travel credits not to exceed five (5) of the total credits for adjustment on the Teachers' Salary Schedule may be accepted for credit for teachers possessing a Masters degree.
5.	Study with an acknowledged authority and/or advanced training in the field of a teacher's specialization or in a related field in which no formal academic credit is given shall qualify the teacher for required credits and advancement on the salary schedule. Credit equivalency and advancement on the salary schedule shall be determined by the committee established in this Article under IV, B, 4, and prior approval of said committee shall be obtained.
6.	Any college or university credits earned and submitted for advanced standing on the salary schedule must have been earned subsequent to the granting of the degree upon which the teacher's present salary classification is based except in cases where a teacher has acquired a Masters degree in a program that the minimum credit requirement is more than 45 graduate credits. In such cases, upon receiving verification of the program requirements and the Masters degree, the required credits earned beyond 45 graduate credits in the program will be applied toward advancement on the salary lanes. Prerequisite, make
12
up or deficiencies courses earned as a condition to entering the Masters degree program will not count for lane
advancement. Exceptions to this requirement are strictly prohibited unless specifically authorized by the Board.
7.	Notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement, the credits required to advance from the M+24 to M+30 lane shall be post-masters degree education credits earned after January 1,1984. In order for credits earned after January 1, 1984 but before October 11,1990 to count toward advancement from the M+24 lane to the M+30 lane, these credits must have a preapproval form on file with the District as of October 11, 1990. Inservice credits earned after January 1, 1984 will be credited subject to normal District verification procedures. No travel credits will be credited for purposes of advancing from the M+24 lane to the M+30 lane.
C.	Remuneration
1.	The District shall provide a payment of $50.00 per credit for semester hours earned at an institution of higher learning subsequent to employment in the District by any teacher toward meeting the minimum requirement in this Article, except for courses for which the District has paid the tuition or credits earned during a sabbatical leave.
2.	Payment for credits earned shall be made within thirty (30) days of receipt of verification of credits earned.
3.	Members of the instructional staff qualifying for salary adjustment by reason of additional credits earned shall be required to file a transcript for certification of work completed with the Office of Personnel. The responsibility for filing this official transcript or certification shall rest with the teacher and not with the instructional officers of the Board or with the institution at which the credits were earned.
V.	FRINGE BENEFITS
A.	Group Health Insurance
1.	The District shall continue to provide on a fully paid basis a comprehensive health insurance plan to all personnel subject to this Agreement. The health insurance plan shall require the Preadmission Review cost containment option. The deductible shall be $100.00 per individual, $300.00 per family aggregate, and the maximum benefit shall be $1,000,000, as per Appendix H-2.
The District shall pay the full health insurance premium for the 2003-2004 school year. If the aggregate of the 2004-2005 health insurance premiums for family and single coverage increases by more than 16.0% over the aggregate of the 2003-2004 health insurance premiums for family and single coverage, the employees shall pay, by way of automatic payroll deduction, the premium amount in excess of $618.74 per month, if they elect single coverage, or the premium amount in excess of $1,385.32 per month, if they elect family coverage. For purposes of determining whether the aggregate of the family and single health insurance
13
premiums has increased by more than 16.0%, the parties will assume that there are 1,186 family plans, 420 single plans and that the 2002-2003 premiums are $629.41 per month for a single plan and $1,435.39 per month for a family plan. If the aggregate premium increase exceeds 16%i the KEA may reopen the contract solely and exclusively for the purpose of insurance plan restructuring. If the restructuring results in a reduced insurance premium below a 16% increase, the dollar difference between the new premium increase and a 16% aggregate premium increase will be applied to the salary schedule as a per cell increase.
2.	Employes on leave of absence without pay will be required to pay for the group health insurance premiums for the duration of their leave except that:
a.	Continuing teachers who have exhausted their accumulated sick leave and are still on sick leave, the District will pay the group health insurance premium for the duration of their annual contract.
b.	New teachers who have been on duty for at least fifteen (15) school days after the opening of school and have exhausted their accumulated sick leave and are still on sick leave, the District will pay the group health insurance premium for the duration of their annual contract.
3.	a. Teachers who retire at age 55 or older, or before age 55 due to a medical disability retirement as approved by the Wisconsin Retirement System may continue to participate in the District's health insurance program until age 65 by making premium payments directly to the insurance company.
b. Survivors of teachers who have been employed by the Kenosha Unified School District for at least three (3) continuous years, may continue to participate in the District's health insurance program. Survivors shall only include the surviving spouse and dependent children. The spouse will be eligible to participate until he/she reaches age 65 or remarries, whichever occurs first. Payments must be made directly to the insurance company.
B.	Dental Insurance
Employes covered by this Agreement shall be eligible for group dental insurance coverage. The Board shall pay 90% per month toward a single plan or 90% per month toward a family plan. The employe who participates shall pay the balance by way of a monthly automatic, payroll deduction. As per Appendix G. Effective January 1, 2000, the dental annual maximum will increase from $1,000 to $2,000.
C.	Early Retirement
1.	Eligibility. Teachers who have taught in the District on a regular full-time basis for at least fifteen (15) years and who are currently employed by the District may apply for early retirement benefits under this section. A teacher who reaches age sixty-two (62) during the summer following a current school year may retire at the end of the current school year before he/she reaches age sixty-two (62). (i.e. a teacher who turns 62 on July 15, 2004 may retire at the end of the 2003-2004 school year.)
2.	Application. Teachers who apply for early retirement benefits shall so notify the
14
District in writing on or before November 15th for second semester retirement or, for first semester retirement,
on or before the preceding January 15th. Once notice of intent to retire is given by a teacher, and is accepted by the District, the notice of intent to retire shall be irrevocable.
3.	Payment(s). If necessary, the District shall make a payment to WRS. The amount of the District's payment(s) shall be that determined by WRS. The District shall provide a Letter of Agreement to the retiring employe and the Association which specifies the amount to be paid the WRS on behalf of the retiring employe.
4.	Insurance. Teachers who retire pursuant to this Article shall be eligible to remain in the group health, dental and life insurance programs maintained by the District until age sixty-five (65). Until such time, the District shall make the same insurance premium contributions on behalf of early retirees which are made on behalf of all other unit employes.
5.	Early Early Retirement
a.	Notwithstanding the above, the teachers who have taught in the District on a regular full-time basis for at least fifteen (15) years and who are currently employed by the District may apply for early early retirement (EER) health insurance benefits. A teacher who reaches age fifty-five (55) during the summer following a current school year may retire at the end of the current school year before he/she reaches age fifty-five (55). (i.e. a teacher who turns 55 on July 15, 2004 may retire at the end of the 20032004 school year.) A teacher eligible for EER health insurance benefits shall be entitled to fully paid single health insurance coverage until age sixty-five (65). Teachers eligible for EER health insurance benefits who desire family coverage shall be eligible for family coverage provided the teacher pays the difference between the family plan premium and the single plan premium.
b.	Teachers who apply for EER health insurance benefits shall notify the District in writing on or before November 15th for second semester retirement or, for first semester retirement, on or before the preceding January 15th. Once notice of intent to retire is given by a teacher, and is accepted by the District, the notice of intent to retire shall be irrevocable.
D.	Long Term Disability
The District will provide a long term disability insurance plan. Benefits provided will be equal to 66 2/3% of the regular monthly salary up to a maximum of $3,000 per month. Effective January 1, 2000, benefits provided will be equal to 90% of the regular monthly salary up to a maximum of $7,650 per month. The waiting period will be 90 consecutive calendar days.
E.	Effective January 1, 2000, the District will pay the cost of the Group Long Term Care Policy as per the schedule of benefits in Appendix H-2.
F.	Life insurance options, which are available to all personnel subject to the agreement, are described in Appendices J-l and J-2.
15
VI.	GENERAL
A.	Alteration in Compensation Plans
Requests or proposals from the teaching staff for a check-off system are to be made to the District through the Association as the certified bargaining representative for the teaching staff.
B.	Neither the District nor the Association or its members will discriminate in any way against any teacher by reason of the teacher's membership or non-membership in the Association, or by reason of the teacher's participation or non-participation in the lawful activities of the Association.
C.	All existing school policies affecting teachers as defined by the Teachers' Salary and Welfare Agreement, unless changed by this contract, shall remain unaltered until changed by mutual consent.
D.	The school calendar for each ensuing school year shall be a matter of negotiation between the
Association and the District.
E.	The school calendar for school years 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 is set forth in Appendix E.
F.	Teachers shall observe the school calendar and make no commitments, which will prevent them from being present in their assigned responsibilities. Salary deductions will be made on a per diem basis or a prorated basis for absence or late arriving or early leaving. This provision shall not apply to absences provided for under the contract.
G.	Emergency School Closings - When any or all schools are closed due to inclement weather or other emergencies, the affected teachers shall not be required to work but shall receive compensation. The number of hours and/or days that the school is closed shall be made up as provided in the calendar without pay.
VII.	TEACHER TENURE
A.	A degree teacher with two (2) or more years of teaching experience prior to employment in the District, including teachers who have completed two or more years of teaching on a Letter of Appointment contract, shall be granted tenure status when he/she has been employed in the District for two (2) full consecutive school years and has been approved for further employment.
B.	A degree teacher with less than two (2) years of teaching experience prior to employment in the District shall be granted tenure status when he/she has been employed in the District for three (3) full consecutive school years and has been approved for further employment.
VIII.	FAIR DISMISSAL
Under the provision of this contract:
A.	No teacher who has acquired tenure in accordance with the District rules shall be refused
16
employment, dismissed, removed, or discharged except for willful neglect of duty, repeated violation of the published rules of the District, conviction of felony, immorality, physical or mental incapacity to perform his or her duties, incompetency, or for other just cause.
B.	Teachers under accusation shall be notified in writing by the District of the date and place of the hearing and furnished with a copy of the charges at least thirty (30) days before the time set for such hearing. Hearings shall be public when requested by the accused and the accused may be represented by counsel and he/she shall have the right to present evidence and testimony that may be appropriate to his/her defense. The accused may waive hearing.
C.	Any teacher convicted of a felony or immorality may be suspended by the District without notice.
D.	A "teacher" as herein used is defined as being a full-time employe of the District who is required to have a teacher's certificate which qualifies under the Wisconsin state laws and who also qualifies under the rules of employment of the said District.
E.	Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude immediate suspension of a teacher by the District where deemed necessary by the District in the best interest of the District.
IX.	NON-TEACHING DUTIES
A.	The District and the Association acknowledge that a teacher's responsibility is to teach and that his/her energies should be utilized to this end. Therefore, continuing efforts will be made to reduce the clerical responsibilities assumed by teachers. The District and the Association acknowledge that a teacher's responsibility is to the educational growth and development of the children in the District.
B.	The District will continue to plan for the collection of fees at the elementary level, as a means of alleviating the clerical load for elementary teachers.
C.	Teachers are required to assume an obligation for functions pertaining to the educational program including (1) daily preparation, (2) attendance at staff meetings and inservice days, and (3) participation in meetings with parents; subsection (3) refers to present practice.
X.	USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES
A.	The Association, in the performance of its obligations as negotiating agent for teachers, will have the right to use school buildings for meetings without cost up to 5:00 p.m. on regular school days. At other times the Association shall pay custodial costs only, for such use. The normal procedures for obtaining a building permit shall be followed.
B.	The Association, in the performance of its obligation as negotiating agent for teachers, shall have the right to place notices, circulars, and other material on bulletin boards designated for teacher use and in teachers' mailboxes. It is agreed that such material shall be professional in approach, will not deal in personal attack, or reflect unfavorably on the teaching profession or on the District. If these standards are
17
violated, the privilege of using the teachers' mailboxes or posting on the bulletin boards may be revoked by the Office of the Superintendent with respect to the offending party. Revocation action will be subj ect to the grievance procedure commencing at the third step.
C.	It is expressly understood that no member of the administration will assume responsibility for the posting or distribution of materials for the Association or any other teacher organization.
D.	The Executive Director of the Association may confer with teachers during the school day. No meetings will be allowed that would interfere with the educational process.
XI.	PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
A.	The following voluntary payroll deductions will be made:
1.	U. S. Savings Bonds
2.	Kenosha County United Fund
3.	Tax sheltered annuity through the Wisconsin Retirement System and other companies, provided each company has at least twenty (20) teachers participating at the time of initial enrollment. New teachers with tax sheltered annuity plans may continue current coverage. Tax sheltered annuity deductions shall be transferred to the disbursal agent within ten (10) work days of the deduction or the receipt by the District of the invoice, whichever is later.
4.	Group Life Insurance
5.	Southern Lakes Credit Union
6.	WEAC Insurance Trust
7.	Group Dental Insurance
8.	Educational Foundation
9.	Health programs approved by the Wellness Committee
10.	AM Community Credit Union
Effective January 1, 1997, teachers will be allowed one change per calendar year at any time during the year in their tax sheltered annuity. Effective January 1, 1998, teachers may make an unlimited number of changes per calendar year in their tax sheltered annuity. Those teachers who select a tax sheltered annuity which provides for direct deposit shall have their contribution direct deposited at the time of their pay check. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Paragraph A, when three-quarters or 75% of the dollar volume of the tax sheltered annuity contributions is being direct deposited by the District, contributions to those tax sheltered annuities not offering direct deposit shall be made within thirty (30) days of the deduction or the receipt by the District of the invoice, whichever is later.
B.	Fair Share
1.	All employes covered by this Agreement shall become members of the Kenosha Education Association or pay to the Association their proportionate share of the cost of collective bargaining process and contract administration measured by the same amount as the Association charges for regular dues, not including any special assessment or initiation cost.
18
2.	Exceptions to the requirements of this Article shall be:
(a)	Anyone not covered by the Master Agreement.
(b)	Any employe who is not receiving a paycheck: e.g., an employe on a leave of absence without pay.
3.	Procedures. The Association shall certify by the second Friday after Labor Day of each
year, to the District through its Payroll Supervisor the amount of monthly dues that are to be deducted.
(a)	Deductions will be made once a month. The amount of the deduction will be established at the time of enrollment.
(b)	The monthly dues deductions shall be made on the first payroll check of each month, beginning in October of each year and ending in June.
(c)	If an employe has no earnings to be paid the first payroll check of the month, no deduction will be made for that month.
(d)	The employe will have to make his/her own arrangements for direct payment of his/her dues if he/she has no paycheck on the first pay period of any month.
(e)	It shall be the employe's responsibility to see that the deduction is taken from his/her check on the first pay period of any month.
(f)	Any errors should be reported immediately by the teacher to the District Finance Office and to the Treasurer of the Association.
(g)	The District will remit monthly within ten (10) days from time of deduction on
to the Association the amount so deducted, together with an alphabetical list of the teachers to whom said amounts are to be credited.
(h)	The Association may change the amount of the dues to be deducted at the beginning of each school year without charge. If the Association requests additional changes in the amount of deduction then it will be required to pay the administrative and computer cost. The new amount of deduction to be effective not sooner than thirty (30) days after the request.
4.	No employe shall be required to join the Association but membership in the Association shall be made available to all employes who apply, consistent with the Constitution and By-laws of the Association.
5.	It is expressly understood and agreed that the provisions of this article shall be terminated forthwith and shall thereafter be inoperative if a strike, work stoppage, slowdown by any employe
19
or group of employes of the District is sanctioned or assisted by the Association.
6.	The Kenosha Education Association and the WEAC do hereby indemnify and shall save the Kenosha Board of Education harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of liability including court costs that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Board, which Board action or non-action is in compliance with the provisions of the Article, and in reliance on any list or certificates which have been furnished to the Board pursuant to this Article, provided that any such claims, demands, suits, or other forms of liability shall be under the exclusive control of the WEAC and its attorneys.
XII.	LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A.	Absences Due to Personal Illness
1.	Professionally certificated personnel may be absent for personal illness up to ten (10) days in a school year with full pay. Unused sick leave is cumulative up to a total of one hundred twenty (120) days. Part-time staff shall receive sick days on a pro-rated basis (For example: A .4 FTE will receive ten (10) .4 sick days). If/when FTE changes, sick days shall be converted to appropriate FTE amounts of sick days, (i.e. 10.5 sick days at 50% converted to 5.25 sick days at 100%). Staff who have a Letter of Appointment position will carry over their accumulated sick days if they receive a contract position.
2.	In the event a period of personal illness extends beyond the number of days of unused
sick leave then accumulated, professionally certificated personnel must apply for and shall be granted a leave of absence, without pay, for the balance of the period of such personal illness, but not to exceed thirty-six (36) months. The determination of the teacher's ability to return to the job he or she was hired to do shall be made by the teacher's physician and certified to the Superintendent in writing.
3.	Upon return from such leave of absence:
a.	In all cases wherein the period of the leave of absence required was thirty (30) school days or less, the professionally certificated employe shall be immediately reinstated in his or her former teaching position with all j ob related benefits that he or she would otherwise have obtained except for such period of illness.
b.	In all cases wherein the period of the leave of absence required was thirty-one (31) school days or more, the professionally certificated employe shall be immediately reinstated in his or her former teaching position, if then available, and if not to a substantially equivalent teaching position which he or she is competent to perform for the balance of the school year, with all the job related benefits he or she would otherwise have obtained except for such period of personal illness. In the ensuing school year the teacher who had returned from an extended sick leave will be reinstated to the position held prior to the extended sick leave.
c.	If the sum of the actual days taught and the accumulated sick leave exceeds half
the school year, the increment for that school year shall be granted.
20
d.	"Substantially equivalent" position shall be defined as a position a teacher is certified to teach.
e.	If the leave extends for a year or more, the teacher will be assigned to a substantially equivalent position as available.
4.	In the event the period of a leave of absence for personal illness extends beyond the end
of a school year, the professionally certificated employe shall inform the Superintendent as soon as possible, but no later than August 1, of whether he or she will be physically fit to perform his or her required teaching duties as of the beginning of the ensuing school year.
5.	In all cases wherein the Superintendent has serious doubts as to the ability of an employe, who has been absent because of personal illness, to perform his or her required teaching duties, he/she may require such employe to secure from such employe's physician a medical statement of physical fitness to perform such required teaching duties.
B.	Absences Due to Illness in Family
In case of illness in the immediate family (father, mother, son, daughter, husband, wife, or other relative with whom the teacher may be living at the time), a teacher shall be allowed six (6) days absence with full pay in a school year. Such absence shall be charged to the Sick Leave as outlined above and deducted from the current or accumulated personal illness allowance.
C.	Absences Not Chargeable to the Sick Leave Allowance
1.	Death in family
a.	In case of death in the immediate family (father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, husband, wife) or a person with whom the teacher may be living, a teacher shall be allowed up to six (6) days with full pay for time necessary to attend the funeral and take care of arrangements for handling an estate.
b.	For other relatives (grandparents, uncles, aunts, first cousins, nieces, nephews, and grandchildren) the teacher shall be allowed three (3) days with full pay to attend the funeral.
c.	The above regulations shall apply equally to relatives whether by blood or marriage but no allowance with pay shall be granted for days previous to that on which the death occurs.
2.	Military leave for duty
a.	The District shall grant, upon request, a military leave of absence for mandatory annual duty for training not to exceed ten (10) school days provided such duty is performed with the assigned unit.
21
b.	Periods of military leave for mandatory service as a result of civil disturbance or
disaster will be allowed, upon request, in addition to leave for annual duty for training, provided such duty is performed with the assigned unit.
c.	Such employe shall receive the difference between the military pay exclusive of
any reimbursement for expenses other than base salary and his/her regular school per diem rate upon submission of a copy of the order to active duty and a copy of the pay voucher.
3.	Military enlistment and induction
Military leave will be granted to any teacher who enlists for not more than four years or who is inducted in any branch of the armed forces of the United States. Upon return from such leave, a teacher will be placed on the salary schedule at the level he/she would have achieved had he/she been employed in the District during the period of his/her compulsory absence. A voluntary extension of the duty period beyond that which is required by law negates all aspects of this provision.
4.	Personal leaves
a.	Two (2) days leave without pay for personal reasons may be requested. Application for such personal leave shall be made at least twenty-four (24) hours before taking such leave (except in case of emergency) and the applicant shall not be required to state the reason for taking such leave other than that he/she is taking it under this section.
b.	Professionally-certificated employes will not be excused to participate in a remunerative activity beyond the limitations set forth in paragraph (a) unless otherwise provided in this Agreement.
c.	One (1) day leave without pay to receive a college or graduate degree.
d.	One (1) day leave without pay to attend the graduation of a member of the
teacher's immediate family.
5.	Appearances in legal proceedings
a.	Teachers who are summoned for jury duty shall be granted the necessary time off with pay, provided the teacher remits to the District all remuneration (except mileage) received for jury duty, and files with the District the appropriate official record of jury service dates.
b.	The District will continue to grant the necessary time with pay for teachers who
are subpoenaed to appear in court proceedings: 1) in connection with the teacher's employment or 2) in any other legal proceeding, if the teacher is not a party to the action. Such approved absence will be with pay provided the teacher remits to the District any fees received and files the subpoena with the District.
c.	Teachers shall be granted necessary time off with pay in order to attend legal
22
proceedings involving the adoption and/or guardianship of a child by the teacher.
6.	Inservice travel account
A minimum of $12,500 will be included in the 1999-2001 school budgets for the purpose of partially reimbursing teachers authorized to attend workshops and conferences related to their teaching assignment.
7.	Exchange teaching and Peace Corps duty
A leave of absence without pay of up to two (2) years will be granted to any tenured teacher who joins the Peace Corps or serves as an exchange teacher and is a full-time participant in either of such programs. The Board may grant a leave of absence not to exceed one (1) school year with pay to a teacher participating in the Fulbright Exchange Program or other Board approved program. Upon return from such leave, a teacher will be considered as if he/she were actively employed by the District during the leave and will be placed on the salary schedule at the level he/she would have achieved if he/she had not been absent. A leave of absence without pay of up to two (2) years will be granted to any certified, non-probationary staff, who have the opportunity to work in the education field in a foreign country. Upon return to the District he/she will be credited on the salary schedule for increment step movement as if he/she never left the District.
8.	Family illness leave
A leave of absence without pay or increment of up to one (1) year will be granted for the purpose of caring for a sick member of the teacher's immediate family. Upon return from such leave, a teacher will be assigned to a substantially equivalent position, as available.
9.	Association service leave
a.	Upon application made prior to June 1, a leave of absence without pay may be granted for one (1) year and be renewable for one (1) additional year to any teacher for the purpose of serving as an officer or member of the staff of the Association, or any of its affiliate organizations. The District upon application from the Association no later than June 1 of any year, the District agrees to release the President of the Association from his/her position within the District.
Effective July 1,2002, the Association and the District agree to add the cost of the KEA Release Time President and the cost of the replacement person together. The Association and the District will each pay U of the cost.
Movement on the salary schedule will be handled in the same manner as all staff covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement (Step movement will occur as if the full-time release time president is in a bargaining unit position).
23
The District agrees that upon return of the Association full-time release President to the position held by the President prior to the commencement of the leave of absence, the following will occur:
The President upon completion of his/her duties as full-time release president shall return to the exact position/building held prior to the start of the leave of absence.
b.	The Association will be allowed a total of up to five paid days every school year for use by the Association president or designee (must be a tenured teacher) to attend NEA conventions related to Association business. The Association must notify the Superintendent in writing twenty days in advance of the convention(s) and must identify the individual(s) who will attend, the date(s) they will be off work, and the nature of the convention(s). The superintendent will grant the request unless the operations of the District will be unduly disrupted. The Association shall pay for a substitute teacher for all those who attend.
10.	Upon application made prior to May 1, a leave of absence, without pay, for the purpose of attending school full-time may be granted. Upon return from such leave, a teacher will be assigned to a substantially equivalent position as available.
11.	All requests for extended leave will be applied for in writing to the Office of Personnel and will be granted or denied in writing by the Superintendent or his/her designee. A duplicate copy of the response to applicant will be sent to the Association.
12.	The District shall continue to grant all benefits to which a teacher was entitled at the time his/her leave of absence commenced, including unused sick leave.
13.	Child Rearing Leave
Any employe may request child rearing leave without pay for any school year in which a child is born or adopted and for one additional school year if so desired.
a.	Child rearing leave may be requested in conjunction with pregnancy leave. Under such circumstances, an individual's use of paid sick leave for pregnancy leave shall be limited to the period of disability as certified by the employe's physician.
b.	Requests for child rearing leave for an additional school year must be submitted prior to June 1. Such requests must be for the complete school year.
c.	Child rearing leave may be granted by the School Board.
d.	Employes while on such leave shall, at their option and expense, be permitted to continue life, dental and health insurance coverages.
e.	Return from such leave shall be governed by the provisions of Article XII, A,3.
24
14.	Sabbatical Leave
1.	Purposes: The underlying philosophy of the sabbatical leave is to increase the
quality of teaching and to gain enriching and broadening experience by professional study and research. Major consideration must be given to the benefits which will accrue to the pupils and to the community, through the individual teacher's personal growth.
2.	Sabbatical Leave Committee: All applications for leave shall be reviewed by a sabbatical leave committee appointed by the Superintendent of Schools and composed of the Executive Director of Special Projects, two additional members of the administration and three teachers. The suggestions of the committee shall be made to the Superintendent, who shall make recommendations to the District for final approval.
The Committee shall be so structured as to provide for staggered terms. Membership shall be for three years, with the provision for an extension of one three-year period, whereupon the member shall retire from the committee. From the inception of the committee, two members, one from the administration and one from the teaching staff, shall retire upon the completion of one year's service. Appointment of new members to the committee shall be by the Superintendent.
3.	Quota: Not more than four (4) teachers shall be granted sabbatical leave in any
one full academic year.
4.	Eligibility: An applicant for a sabbatical leave must be a degree-holding teacher who has served in the school system for no less than five (5) consecutive years preceding the leave at the time of application.
5.	Requirements: An applicant who wishes to undertake formal study shall agree
to meet the minimum requirements of the institution of higher learning which he/she plans to attend governing attendance as a full-time student. When the first half of the sabbatical leave has been completed, the teacher shall request that a progress report be submitted to the committee and to the Office of Personnel, by a representative of said institution. At the conclusion of the leave, evidence of successful completion of the study program in the form of a certified transcript of work taken and the grades earned, shall be submitted to the Superintendent.
6.	Length of leave: A sabbatical leave may be granted for a period of one full academic year. Recipients of sabbatical leaves must return to the school system for not less than two complete years. Prior to the inception of such leave, and after returning from such leave, the recipient shall furnish the District a suitable bond or collateral to indemnify the school system against loss if this condition is not met. The teacher shall bear the expense of the bonding initially, but the District will refund the cost of bonding after the recipient has returned and has served in the school system for two years. After one year of such service, and where professional advancement is involved, a teacher may leave the system without forfeiture of bond, but in this instance, refunding of bond premium will not be made.
This provision will not apply when, for physical reasons or other circumstances beyond his/her control, the teacher is incapable of further service. In such case, the teacher shall submit to the
25
Superintendent of Schools a written statement from a licensed physician indicating physical incapacity.
7.	Application procedure: Following consultation with his/her immediate supervisor, the applicant shall secure a sabbatical leave form from his/her principal or department head. This form must be completed and filed with the Chairperson of the Sabbatical Leave Committee by February 1 st of the year preceding the leave. The Committee will submit its recommendations to the Superintendent by March 1st annually. Applicants will be notified of the disposition of their applications by March 15th annually.
8.	Determinants of Sabbatical Leave: In order that all applicants be given equal consideration, the following criteria will be considered in selecting the candidates for sabbatical leave; (a) evidence of acceptance of the teacher's program or project by the institution offering advanced study or research; (b) merit of objectives for sabbatical leave; (c) years of teaching experience in the District; (d) previous leaves; (e) interview with the Sabbatical Leave Committee; and (f) teaching needs within the school system as determined by the Board.
9.	Rights and Privileges: A teacher who is granted a sabbatical leave shall retain all rights of tenure, retirement, insurance, accrued sick leave, and salary step placement attained prior to the sabbatical leave. After completion of the sabbatical leave, the teacher will be placed on the salary schedule one step higher than when he/she left; e.g., a teacher on the sixth step when he/she applies for sabbatical leave, shall be placed upon the seventh step when he/she returns.
10.	Accident and illness, or other termination, of the sabbatical leave: In case of injury to, or other illness of the teacher during the leave, which prevents his/her completing the purpose of the leave, the sabbatical leave, including compensation, will be terminated and all provisions for sick leave will then apply. These provisions will take effect immediately following notification of the Chairperson of the Sabbatical Leave Committee, verified by a doctor's report. Upon release by a medical doctor, the teacher will return to regular teaching duty for the remainder of the school year, to be assigned as needed at the discretion of the Superintendent. The subsequent year he/she will be reassigned as if he/she had completed the sabbatical leave.
If the teacher is unable to continue the purpose of the sabbatical leave for reasons other than sickness or injury, he/she will notify the Superintendent and will return to regular duties as assigned.
11.	Other employment or grants and fellowships: During the period of sabbatical leave, a teacher may engage in remunerative employment and/or may accept grants or fellowships, if all other provisions of this Agreement are met and such employment, grant or fellowship does not adversely affect the purposes of the sabbatical leave.
12.	Compensation: Compensation for ateacher on sabbatical leave shall be $6,500. Payments shall be made to the applicant in accordance with payroll procedures as they apply to all teaching personnel but no payment shall be made until the teacher has on file with the Office of Personnel a bond or collateral as required by Article V, B, 6.
26
XIII.	VOLUNTARY AND INVOLUNTARY TRANSFERS AND ASSIGNMENTS
A.	The District retains the right to make grade, subject and activity assignments and to make transfers between schools as necessary in the best interests of the District.
B.	Insofar as practical, assignments and transfers will take into consideration employe professional training, experience, specific achievements and service in the District.
C.	Applications for transfer may be instituted by any nontenured teacher who has completed a minimum assignment of two (2) years in one (1) building, or any tenured teacher who has completed a minimum assignment of one (1) year in one (1) building, who has regular certification in the grade and/or subject to which he/she wishes to transfer. Any such teacher wishing another assignment or transfer to another school shall make his/her wishes known immediately after the posting in all school buildings of listings of known vacancies which will occur during the following school year. During the summer such listings will be supplied to the Executive Director of the Association. Persons seeking transfer will obtain a teacher transfer form and follow the procedure described. A letter of application must accompany each request for transfer.
Persons seeking transfer should obtain a teacher transfer form, complete it, and send it to their immediate supervisor for processing. A letter of application which includes a brief description of the reason for the request should accompany the form. If the application is approved the applicant will be informed of the decision and the reassignment of the applicant will thereby be confirmed.
D.	In making involuntary assignments and transfers, the convenience and wishes of the individual
teacher will be honored to the extent they do not conflict with the instructional requirements and best interests of the school system and pupils. Permanent assignments or transfers will not be made without prior discussion with the teacher involved.
1.	A teacher's area of competence, and maj or/or minor field of study, will be considered in
determining which teacher is to be transferred or reassigned. Such teachers will be placed in a comparable position wherever possible.
XIV.	TEACHER EVALUATION
A.	The purpose of evaluation shall be for the improvement of instruction and shall be based on criteria clearly known and articulated prior to the beginning of the evaluation.
B.	There will be three types of evaluation reviews for non-probationary teachers:
1.	Regular Review
2.	Intensive Review
3.	Critical review
C.	Regular Review
27
Regular review consists of the normal evaluation process.
The following language shall be effective for the 2003-2005 Collective Bargaining Agreement only. For teachers who are being evaluated using the clinical observation model, all post observation conferences shall be conducted with the teacher within 10 school days of the evaluation, unless circumstances beyond the control of the parties prohibit the meeting from occurring. In that event, a mutually agreed upon conference time will be scheduled as soon as practicable.
Evaluation Cycle for Probationary Teaching Staff - All probationary teaching staff shall have at least two (2) formal observations and post-observation conferences conducted prior to the completion of the first semester, with at least one (1) more observation and post-observation conference prior to the end of the school year.
Evaluation Cycle for Non-Probationary Teaching Staff - All Non-Probationary teachers who are to be evaluated using the clinical evaluation model during their school year of evaluation shall have at least one (1) formal observation and post-conference conducted prior to the completion of the first semester, with at least two (2) more observations and post-observation conferences to occur prior to the end of the school year.
D.	Intensive Review
1.	In the event a principal/supervising administrator believes that a non-probationary teacher is experiencing performance problems, the principal/supervising administrator may place the teacher on Intensive Review.
2.	Placement on Intensive Review will normally be communicated to the teacher in writing by the last teacher workday of the school year, but in no event will a teacher be placed on Intensive Review after the last day of the first semester of the school year in which the review is to take place. The reasons for placement of Intensive Review will be given to the teacher in writing.
3.	A teacher notified of placement on Intensive Review may request a meeting with the principal/supervising administrator to jointly develop a summary of initial strategies for improvement. This meeting shall occur within six (6) weeks of the request for teachers notified on or before the last teacher workday of the school year, and within two (2) weeks of the request for teachers notified on or before the last day of the first semester.
4.	During the period of Intensive Review, the teacher may consult with a Peer Assistance Team, which shall consist of a teacher assigned by the District and another teacher to be selected by the teacher under Intensive Review. A teacher may serve on only one Peer Assistance Team per school year unless otherwise approved by the administration. Members of the Peer Assistance Team may not be called as witnesses by any party in any proceeding pertaining to the evaluation process. Members of the Peer Assistance Team shall receive up to one day of release time to be used at the discretion of the teacher under review.
5.	During the period of Intensive Review, the teacher will be provided with strategies for
improvement and will be subject to observation and evaluation no less than approximately every four school
28
weeks.
6.	By the last workday of the school year in which the Intensive Review takes place, the teacher will be advised in writing either that he/she has met the District’s expectations or that he/she has not.
In the former case, the teacher will be placed on Regular Review for the following school year. In the latter case, the teacher will be placed on Critical Review for the following school year.
E.	Critical Review
1.	A teacher notified of placement on Critical Review may request a meeting with the principal/supervising administrator to jointly develop a summary of initial strategies for improvement. This meeting shall occur within six (6) weeks of the request.
2.	A teacher on Critical Review will be provided with strategies for improvement and subject to observation and evaluation no less than approximately every four school weeks.
3.	During the period of Critical Review, the teacher may consult with a Peer Assistance Team, which shall consist of a teacher assigned by the District and another teacher to be selected by the teacher under Critical Review. A teacher may serve on only one Peer Assistance Team per school year unless otherwise approved by the administration. Members of the Peer Assistance team may not be called as witnesses by any party in any proceeding pertaining to the evaluation process. Members of the Peer Assistance Team shall receive up to one day of release time to be used at the discretion of the teacher under review.
4.	A teacher who does not meet District expectations by the end of the school year while on Critical Review shall be terminated for just cause. This is distinct from the nonrenewal process. A teacher who has met the District’s expectations during the year of Critical Review will be placed on Intensive Review for the next school year.
F.	The decision to place a teacher on either Intensive or Critical Review may be grieved on the basis of having been arbitrary or capricious.
G.	All monitoring or observation of the work performance of a teacher will be conducted openly
and with full knowledge of the teacher. Teachers will be shown a copy of evaluation reports prepared by their superiors and will have the right to discuss such reports with their superiors before they are submitted to central administration or put in their personnel files.
H.	No teacher will be disciplined without just cause. Removal from Appendix C assignments shall be subject to the just cause standard.
1.	All material originating within the District and pertaining to the teacher which is placed
in the teacher's permanent file shall be available for inspection by that teacher within seventy-two (72) hours of a request. References and credentials shall remain confidential. If a teacher is the subject of disciplinary
29
action, and if a principal's notes relating to the disciplinary action will be relied upon by the District at a hearing, upon request of that teacher the notes will be made available for inspection.
2.	No material originating within the District and pertaining to the teacher, shall be placed in the teacher's permanent file unless the teacher has had an opportunity to read such material. References and credentials shall remain confidential.
3.	A teacher shall have the right to answer any material originating within the District, and
pertaining to the teacher which is placed in the teacher's permanent file, and all such answers will be made a part of such file.
4.	A teacher shall be permitted to inspect and copy any material in his/her file, subject to
Article XIV. H-l, H-2, and H-3. References and credentials shall remain confidential.
XV.	BUILDING FACILITIES
At least one faculty lounge will be provided at each school.
XVI.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	Purpose
The purpose of this grievance procedure is to provide a method for quick and binding final determination of every question of interpretation and application of the provisions of the Agreement, thus preventing the protracted continuation of misunderstandings which may arise from time to time concerning such questions.
B.	Definitions
1.	A grievance is defined to be an issue concerning the interpretation or application of provisions of this Agreement or compliance therewith.
2.	Party in interest means a grievant and/or any person or persons also aggrieved who might be required to take action in order to resolve grievances, the President of the Association or his/her designee, and the Superintendent or his/her designee.
3.	There shall be no retroactivity prior to the date of the filing of the written grievance except that in the event of a payroll error not occurring as a result of teacher negligence, corrected payment shall be made retroactive to the beginning of the contract year in which the grievance is filed.
4.	The President of the Association or any employe covered by this Agreement acting as
his/her designee, may file a grievance on behalf of a group of individuals covered by this Agreement, if the issue is common to all the individuals in the group and with the approval of said individuals, or on behalf of
30
an individual covered by the Agreement. Group grievances must be in writing pursuant to subsection B(5) and must be filed directly with the Superintendent of Schools within twenty (20) school days after the individual(s) knew or should have known of the condition upon which the grievance is based or it will be deemed waived. Grievances filed on behalf of an individual must be filed directly with the grievant's immediate supervisor pursuant to Step One below. For purposes of this paragraph, "days" shall mean school days during the school year and calendar days during the Summer.
5.	The grievance shall be in writing and contain the: name of the employe(s) or group involved, facts giving rise to the grievance, specific sections of the Agreement alleged to be violated, specific relief requested and date the incident or violation took place.
6.	In the event an employee, covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement is suspended, the grievance procedure will be initiated at Step Two of the grievance procedure.
C.	Resolution of Grievance
If the grievance is not processed within the time limit at any step of the grievance procedure, it shall be considered to have been resolved by previous disposition. Any time limit in the procedure may be extended by mutual consent. An Association representative may be present at any step in the grievance procedure.
D.	Steps of Grievance Procedure
Grievances shall be processed as follows:
1.	Step One
A grievance shall be presented in writing to the grievant's immediate supervisor, within twenty (20) days after the grievant knew or should have known of the condition upon which the grievance is based, in an attempt to resolve the dispute. For purposes of this paragraph, "days" shall mean school days during the school year and calendar days during the Summer.
2.	Step Two
a.	If the matter is not settled at Step One, or if no decision has been rendered within five (5) school days after presentation at Step One, the grievant may proceed further by filing it with the President of the Association or his/her designee within five (5) school days after the decision at Step One or ten (10) school days after the matter was initially presented under Step One, whichever is sooner. Within five (5) school days after the matter has been filed with the President of the Association or his/her designee, the President will refer it to the District's Superintendent of Schools.
b.	Within five (5) school days after receipt of the matter by the Superintendent, the Superintendent or his/her designee will meet with the grievant and the President of the Association or his/her designee in an effort to resolve the matter.
31
3.
Step Three
If a grievance is not resolved at the end of Step Two, then the Association may request that the grievance be submitted to arbitration by giving written notice to all other parties, within ten (10) school days after delivery of the answer in the Second Step. Thereafter the procedure will be as follows:
a.	Within five (5) school days after such written demand for arbitration the Association shall request the WERC to appoint an arbitrator.
b.	At any time before the commencement of the hearing, either party may demand
that the proceedings be recorded by a court reporter, in which case the arbitrator shall make the arrangements to secure the attendance of a court reporter to record all of the testimony and all of the proceedings. The reporter shall transcribe the notes of the hearing within twenty (20) days from the completion of the hearing, and a copy of the transcript shall be furnished to the arbitrator. All witnesses shall be duly sworn. The arbitrator shall have the power to compel the attendance of witnesses and to require either party to produce records or documents which are pertinent to the dispute. The expense of the arbitrator and the reporter, if any, and the transcript for the arbitrator shall be borne equally by the parties.
c.	The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, modify, or alter any of the terms
or provisions of this Agreement; the sole authority of the arbitrator is to render a decision as to the meaning and interpretation of this written contract with respect to the dispute. Each arbitration proceeding shall be held at such place and at such time as shall be mutually agreed upon by the District and the Association, and if they cannot agree, then the arbitrator shall designate the place and time. The arbitrator shall have no authority to impose liability upon the employer arising out of acts occurring before the effective date or after the termination date of this Agreement.
d.	All grievances will be handled in accordance with the Grievance Procedure.
e.	The decision of the arbitrator, if within the scope of his/her authority, shall be final and binding on both parties.
4. If any portions of the early retirement or early early retirement benefit should be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any sections or addenda should be restrained by such tribunal, the parties shall enter into immediate negotiations for the purpose of arriving at a legal replacement benefit. If the parties are unable to reach agreement, the issue will be submitted to binding, final offer interest arbitration, with the criteria for selection of an offer being which most nearly maintains the existing benefit to teachers and existing cost to the District (The fact that there are general increases in premiums over time will not be counted against either part in determining whether costs are being maintained).
Prior to invoking the arbitration procedure, the parties agree to meet and negotiate in good faith at least weekly for a period of up to 4 weeks after the benefit is suspended. If there is no voluntary agreement within the 4 week negotiating period, the parties agree to arbitrate the issue, and the procedure for arbitration will be as follows:
32
a.	The parties will request a panel of arbitrators from the WERC interest arbitration roster. Within 7 days after the parties’ receipt of the panel, the parties will meet to exchange final offers and select an arbitrator. At this meeting each party will submit to the other a signed final offer, which shall not be modified.
b.	The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing within 45 days of being notified of his/her selection, and shall issue an Award within 30 days after the close of the evidentiary record. The parties may submit briefs, but this shall not delay the issuance of the award within 30 days after the close of the evidentiary record.
Between the suspension of the benefit and the issuance of the Award, any eligible teacher wishing to take retirement will receive health insurance coverage at District expense. When the Award is issued, the benefits awarded will apply to the teachers who retired after the suspension of the benefit as if the new benefits had been in effect at the time of retirement.
If, at any time during or after the dispute resolution process described above, any state or federal agency, or any state or federal court, or any tribunal of competent jurisdiction issues any determination, charge, complaint, advisory letter or other statement that these benefits do not comply with laws prohibiting age discrimination, then the above process shall be reinitiated.
XVII.	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The District, on its own behalf, hereby retains and reserves unto itself all powers, rights, authority, duties and responsibilities conferred upon and vested in it by the laws and the Constitution of the State of Wisconsin and of the United States except to the extent limited by an express provision of this Agreement.
XVIII.	PROTECTION
A.	Teachers will immediately report all cases of assault suffered by them in connection with their employment to the school principal in writing.
B.	The Superintendent and the Board will comply with any reasonable request from the teacher for information in their possession relating to the incident or the persons involved.
C.	If civil proceedings are brought against a teacher alleging that he/she committed an assault in
connection with disciplining a student, legal counsel to defend the teacher in such proceedings will be provided by the District through its insurance carrier.
XIX.	PERSONAL INJURY BENEFITS
A.	Whenever a teacher is absent from school as a result of personal injury caused by an assault by
a student, occurring in the course of the teacher's employment, the teacher will be paid his/her full salary for the period of such absence, and no part of such absence will be charged to his/her annual sick leave. Under these conditions any benefits accruing to the teacher would be remitted to the District.
33
B.	Whenever a teacher is absent from school as a result of personal injury occurring on the school
premises and not due to the teacher's negligence, the teacher will be paid his/her full salary less weekly indemnity under the Workers' Compensation Act for the period of his/her disability up to thirty (30) contract days and no part of such absence will be charged to his/her accumulated sick leave.
C.	Insofar as the Workers' Compensation law applies teachers will be reimbursed for the cost of medical, surgical and/or hospital services incurred as the result of any injury sustained in the course of employment.
D.	The District shall have the right to have the teacher examined by a physician designated by the
District for the purpose of establishing the length of time during which the teacher is temporarily disabled or absent from performing his/her duties, and the opinion of said physician as to the said period shall control.
XX.	EMPLOYMENT
A.	Contract renewal provisions of the Wisconsin State Law regulating renewal and non-renewal
of teacher contracts shall be followed in the employment of teachers.
B.	Any newly employed teacher hired by the District prior to February 15 of any given year prior to the 1990-91 school year shall be granted a full year of teaching experience for the purpose of advancement on the salary schedule for the ensuing school year. Any newly employed teacher hired by the District after July 1,1991, who has taught at least one semester during any school year after 1989-90 shall be granted a full year of teaching experience for the purpose of advancement on the salary schedule for the ensuing year.
C.	Non-renewable contracts shall not be issued except to fill positions for certificated professional
personnel on leave or to fill for the remainder of a school year a vacancy that occurs during the school year, or to fill a vacancy caused by a teacher resignation less than thirty (30) days before the start of the school year.
D.	Teachers who request a release from their individual contract without giving sixty (60) days written notice shall be released only upon payment of $500.00 in liquidated damages. The District may deduct liquidated damages from the teacher's last check.
XXI.	ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY WHEN PRINCIPAL IS NOT IN BUILDING
A.	The principal should assign and instruct a teacher to handle routine activities in his/her absence. Such assignment shall be on a voluntary basis with that teacher.
B.	Whenever possible, the principal will advise the teacher of another principal who is available
for consultation or assistance in the handling of any problem if necessary.
C.	Should an emergency arise, the teacher in charge will immediately contact his/her principal. If
the principal is not available he/she will contact the Executive Director of Special Projects' Office or the Office of Facilities Services as necessary.
34
D.	In the case of mechanical or operational difficulties, the teacher in charge will notify the janitor.
E.	Persons designated to assume administrative responsibilities, shall perform these duties to the best of their ability.
XXII.	WORK STOPPAGE PROHIBITED
A.	The Association agrees for itself and the employes in the bargaining unit that there will not be
any withholding of contracts or strikes in the District during the term of this Agreement nor will there be any authorization, condonation, assistance or support of any such action.
B.	In the event of a violation of paragraph A above, the District may take whatever disciplinary action it deems appropriate, subject to the grievance procedure.
XXIII.	MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
The Association recognizes the prerogative of the District and the Superintendent of Schools to operate and manage the affairs of the District in accordance with its responsibilities under the law. The District and the Superintendent shall have all powers, rights, authority, duties and responsibilities conferred upon and vested in them by the laws and the Constitution of the State of Wisconsin and/or of the United States except where modified by specific provisions of this Agreement. In the exercise of the powers, rights, authority, duties and responsibilities by the District or the Superintendent, the use of judgment and discretion in connection herewith shall not be exercised in an arbitrary or capricious manner, or in violation of the terms of this Agreement or of Section 111.70 of the Wisconsin Statutes or in violation of the laws or the Constitution of the State of Wisconsin or of the United States.
XXIV.	ASSOCIATION RESPONSIBILITIES
A.	The Association will fairly represent all persons in the bargaining unit. No Association activity will interfere with the regular instructional program of the school, except as otherwise specified in this Agreement.
B.	The Association shall present public issues fairly and honestly.
XXV.	CONCLUSION OF BARGAINING
A. The District and the Association do each unqualifiedly waive the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated, to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter referred to or covered in this Agreement or with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement, if such subj ect or matter was within the knowledge or contemplation of both of the parties at the time they negotiated or signed this Agreement, except as otherwise specifically provided herein.
XXVI.	TEACHER HEALTH
In cases of physical or nervous disorder, or alcoholism, or the use of illegal drugs (defined in Chapter
35
161, Wis. Stats.), the District may require a satisfactory statement of health from a physician. If the teacher refuses to see his/her own physician or if the teacher refuses his/her physician's recommendation for an examination by a psychiatrist or other specialist, the teacher must submit to an examination by a physician chosen by the teacher from a panel of three (3) physicians provided by the District. The District will pay for the cost of any such examination. If the physician determines that the teacher is not physically or mentally able to handle his/her teaching duties then the teacher shall be required to take a sick leave as provided in Article XII, A, of this Agreement.
XXVII.	SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any sections of this Agreement or any addenda thereto should be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any sections or addenda should be restrained by such tribunal the remainder of this Agreement and addenda thereto shall not be affected thereby, and the parties shall enter into immediate negotiations for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such invalid section(s).
XXVIII.	MAINTENANCE OF STANDARDS
Except as this Agreement shall hereinafter otherwise provide, all salaries, benefits, hours and conditions of employment which are negotiable and which are in effect at the time this Agreement is signed, as established by the rules, regulations and/or policies in force on said date, shall continue to be so applicable during the term of this Agreement.
Practices are defined by the following standard: it must be of long standing duration; it must be consistently applied across the District; and there must be an element of mutual agreement between the parties signatory to this agreement as contained in a memorandum of understanding or other written document.
XXIX.	DURATION
The provisions of the Agreement will be effective as of July 1, 2003 will continue and remain in full force and effect as binding on the parties until June 30, 2005, and will be the basis for negotiations in the 2004-2005 school year.

THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the 1st day of July, 2003, by and between the School Board of the Kenosha Unified School District No. 1 and the Kenosha Education Association, certified collective bargaining representative for certified teaching personnel of said District.
KENOSHA EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
KENOSHA SCHOOL BOARD
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1
36
/s/ Matthew Kranich President
/s/ Jo Ann Medley President
7/1/03 Date	7/1/03	 Date
37
APPENDIX A-l
KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1 Kenosha, Wisconsin
2003-2004 KENOSHA TEACHERS' SALARY SCHEDULE*
Step B	B+6	B+12	B+18	B+24	MA	M+6	M+12	M+18	M+24	M+30
100	000000000
2	29593	30044	30495	30944	31393	32590	33041	33489	33940	34388	34838
(341)	(346) (350) (355) (361) (377) (381) (388) (391) (398) (404)
3	29934	30390	30845	31299	31754	32967	33422	33877	34331	34786	35242
(1365) (1383) (1404) (1425) (1446) (1500) (1521) (1542) (1736) (1759) (1958)
4	31299	31773	32249	32724	33200	34467	34943	35419	36067	36545	37200
(1365) (1385) (1406) (1427) (1447) (1501) (1522) (1713) (1737) (1937) (1960)
5	32664	33158	33655	34151	34647	35968	36465	37132	37804	38482	39160
(1363) (1384) (1406) (1428) (1446) (1499) (1689) (1715) (1909) (1934) (1959)
6	34027	34542	35061	35579	36093	37467	38154	38847	39713	40416	41119
(1367) (1387) (1404) (1427) (1448) (1669) (1693) (1883) (1910) (1934) (1960)
7	35394	35929	36465	37006	37541	39136	39847	40730	41623	42350	43079
(1364)	(1384) (1404) (1428) (1607) (1666) (1858) (1886) (1908) (1934) (1959)
8	36758	37313	37870	38434	39148	40802	41705	42616	43531	44284	45038
(1365)	(1355) (1406) (1582) (1606) (1834) (1862) (1886) (1911) (1937) (2138)
9	38123	38698	39276	40016	40754	42636	43567	44502	45442	46221	47177
(1367) (1386) (1561) (1584) (1770) (1836) (1859) (1883) (1909) (2110) (2136)
10	39490	40084	40837	41600	42524	44472	45426	46385	47351	48331	49313
(1362) (1540) (1562) (1586) (1767) (1834) (1859) (1887) (2083) (2112) (2140)
11	40852	41624	42399	43186	44291	46306	47285	48272	49434	50443	51453
(1519) (1540) (1582) (1741) (1768) (1835) (1860) (2055) (2082) (2111) (2140)
12	42371	43164	43959	44927	46059	48141	49145	50327	51516	52554	53593
(1507) (1528) (1551) (1731) (1758) (1820) (2015) (2040) (2070) (2097) (2134)
13	43878	44692	45510	46658	47817	49961	51160	52367	53586	54651	55727
(1527) (1550) (1731) (1756) (1941) (2014) (2045) (2073) (2096) (2126) (2139)
14	45405	46242	47241	48414	49758	51975	53205	54440	55682	56777	57866
(2001)	(2028)	(2057)	(2085)	(2112)	(2141)
15	53976 55233 56497 57767 58889 60007
The hiring step is Step 2
(Increments between steps shown in parentheses.)
*Teachers who move from Step 1 of the2002-2003 teachers’ salary schedule to Step 2 of the 2003-2004 teachers’ salary schedule shall be paid a one-time stipend of $460 on the payroll of October 29, 2003.
38
APPENDIX A-2
KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1 Kenosha, Wisconsin
2004-2005 KENOSHA TEACHERS' SALARY SCHEDULE*
Step B B+6 B+12 B+18 B+24 MA M+6 M+12 M+18 M+24 M+30
1	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
2	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
3	30742 31210 31678	32144	32611	33857 34324	34791 35257 35725	36193
4	(1402) (1421) (1445) 32144 32631 33120	(1464) 33608	(1485) 34096	(1541) (1562) 35398 35886	(1584) (1784) (1806) 36375 37041 37531	(2011) 38204
5	(1402) (1422) (1443) 33546 34053 34563	(1465) 35073	(1486) 35582	(1541) (1563) 36939 37449	(1760) (1784) (1990) 38135 38825 39521	(2013) 40217
6	(1399) (1422) (1444) 34945 35475 36007	(1467) 36540	(1485) 37067	(1540) (1735) 38479 39184	(1761) (1960) (1986) 39896 40785 41507	(2012) 42229
7	(1404) (1424) (1442) 36349 36899 37449	(1465) 38005	(1488) 38555	(1714) (1738) 40193 40922	(1933) (1962) (1987) 41829 42747 43494	(2013) 44242
8	(1402) (1421) (1443) 37751 38320 38892	(1467) 39472	(1650) 40205	(1710) (1909) 41903 42831	(1938) (1960) (1986) 43767 44707 45480	(2012) 46254
9	(1402) (1423) (1444) 39153 39743 40336	(1624) 41096	(1650) 41855	(1884) (1913) 43787 44744	(1937) (1962) (1989) 45704 46669 47469	(2197) 48451
10	(1403) (1423) (1603) 40556 41166 41939	(1627) 42723	(1817) 43672	(1886) (1909) 45673 46653	(1934) (1960) (2167) 47638 48629 49636	(2194) 50645
11	(1399) (1582) (1604) 41955 42748 43543	(1629) 44352	(1815) 45487	(1884) (1909) 47557 48562	(1937) (2139) (2169) 49575 50768 51805	(2197) 52842
(1560)	(1581)	(1603)	(1788)	(1815)	(1883)	(1910)	(2111)	(2139)	(2168)	(2198)
12	43515	44329	45146	46140	47302	49440	50472	51686	52907	53973	55040
(1547)	(1570)	(1593)	(1777)	(1806)	(1870)	(2069)	(2095)	(2126)	(2153)	(2192)
13	45062	45899	46739	47917	49108	51310	52541	53781	55033	56126	57232
(1569)	(1591)	(1777)	(1804)	(1994)	(2069)	(2100)	(2129)	(2152)	(2184)	(2197)
14	46631	47490	48516	49721	51102	53379	54641	55910	57185	58310	59429
(2054) (2083) (2113) (2141) (2169) (2198)
15	55433 56724 58023 59326 60479 61627
The hiring step is Step 3.
(Increments between steps shown in parentheses.)
*Teachers who move from Step 2 of the 2003-2004 teachers’ salary schedule to Sten 3 of the 2004-2005 teachers’ salary schedule shall be paid a one-time stipend of $365 on the payroll of October 27, 2004.
39
APPENDIX B-l
KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1 Kenosha, Wisconsin
ESTIMATED WISCONSIN RETIREMENT SYSTEM DISTRICT CONTRIBUTION 5,6 % of $29,593 Salary Schedule for 2003-2004
Step	B	B+6	B+12	B+18	B+24	MA	M+6	M+12	M+18	M+24	M+30
1	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
2	1657	1682	1708	1733	1758	1825	1850	1875	1901	1926	1951
3	1676	1702	1727	1753	1778	1846	1872	1897	1923	1948	1974
4.	1753	1779	1806	1833	1859	1930	1957	1983	2020	2047	2083
5.	1829	1857	1885	1912	1940	2014	2042	2079	2117	2155	2193
6	1906	1934	1963	1992	2021	2098	2137	2175	2224	2263	2303
7	1982	2012	2042	2072	2102	2192	2231	2281	2331	2372	2412
8	2058	2090	2121	2152	2192	2285	2335	2386	2438	2480	2522
9	2135	2167	2199	2241	2282	2388	2440	2492	2545	2588	2642
10	2211	2245	2287	2330	2381	2490	2544	2598	2652	2707	2762
11	2288	2331	2374	2418	2480	2593	2648	2703	2768	2825	2881
12	2373	2417	2462	2516	2579	2696	2752	2818	2885	2943	3001
13	2457	2503	2549	2613	2678	2798	2865	2933	3001	3060	3121
14	2543	2590	2645	2711	2786	2911	2979	3049	3118	3180	3240
15						3023	3093	3164	3235	3298	3360
40
APPENDIX B-2
KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1 Kenosha, Wisconsin
ESTIMATED WISCONSIN RETIREMENT SYSTEM DISTRICT CONTRIBUTION 5,6 % of $30,742 Salary Schedule for 2004-2005
Step	. B	B+6	B+12	B+18	B+24	MA	M+6	M+12	M+18	M+24	M+30
1	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
2	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	0
3	1722	1748	1774	1800	1826	1896	1922	1948	1974	2001	2027
4	1800	1827	1855	1882	1909	1982	2010	2037	2074	2102	2139
5	1879	1907	1936	1964	1993	2069	2097	2136	2174	2213	2252
6	1957	1987	2016	2046	2076	2155	2194	2234	2284	2324	2365
7	2036	2066	2097	2128	2159	2251	2292	2342	2394	2436	2478
8	2114	2146	2178	2210	2251	2347	2399	2451	2504	2547	2590
9	2193	2226	2259	2301	2344	2452	2506	2559	2613	2658	2713
10	2271	2305	2349	2392	2446	2558	2613	2668	2723	2780	2836
11	2349	2394	2438	2484	2547	2663	2719	2776	2843	2901	2959
12	2437	2482	2528	2584	2649	2769	2826	2894	2963	3022	3082
13	2523	2570	2617	2683	2750	2873	2942	3012	3082	3143	3205
14	2611	2659	2717	2784	2862	2989	3060	3131	3202	3265	3328
15						3104	3177	3249	3322	3387	3451
41
APPENDIX C
KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1 Kenosha, Wisconsin
2003-2004 School Years
Coaches Salary Schedule	1 to 5 Yrs.	6 to 9 Yrs.	10-Up
High School	Step No. 1	Step No. 2	Step No. 3
Football Head Coach	3683.00	4360.00	5235.00
Sophomore Coach	3011.00	3515.00	4147.00
Assistant Coach	2879.00	3419.00	4131.00
Trainer	2571.00	3082.00	3777.00
Basketball Head Coach	3664.00	4366.00	5241.00
Sophomore Coach	2964.00	3483.00	4139.00
J.V. Coach	2964.00	3483.00	4139.00
Track Head Coach	3282.00	3910.00	4537.00
Assistant Coach	2700.00	3342.00	3913.00
Swimming Head Coach	3333.00	4176.00	4600.00
Assistant Coach	2914.00	3468.00	4110.00
Wrestling Head Coach	3450.00	4113.00	4648.00
Assistant Coach	2962.00	3515.00	4045.00
Baseball Head Coach	3205.00	3889.00	4552.00
Assistant Coach	2904.00	3378.00	4094.00
Cross Country Head Coach
2655.00	3194.00	3900.00
(Addendum of $1031.00 for two teams)
Tennis Head Coach Assistant Coach	2652.00 2290.00	3155.00 2873.00	3744.00 3505.00
Soccer			
Head Coach	3069.00	3816.00	4139.00
Assistant Coach	2877.00	3302.00	3967.00
42
2003-2004 School Years
Coaches Salary Schedule
High School	1 to 5 Yrs. Step No. 1	6 to 9 Yrs. Step No. 2	10-Up Step No. 3
Golf			
Head Coach	2571.00	2978.00	3686.00
Assistant Coach	1873.00	2243.00	2949.00
Gymnastics			
Head Coach	3661.00	4047.00	4796.00
Assistant Coach	2908.00	3443.00	3938.00
Hockey			
Head Coach	3661.00	4047.00	4796.00
Assistant Coach	2908.00	3443.00	3938.00
Softball			
Head Coach	3020.00	3704.00	4367.00
Assistant Coach	2904.00	3378.00	4094.00
Volleyball			
Head Coach	2919.00	3484.00	4103.00
Assistant Coach	2628.00	3126.00	3679.00
Middle School			
Football Head Coach	1822.00	2131.00	2358.00
Assistant Coach	1465.00	1690.00	1894.00
Basketball Head Coach	2110.00	2612.00	2628.00
Assistant Coach	1819.00	1923.00	2092.00
Track Head Coach	1456.00	1829.00	1992.00
Assistant Coach	1231.00	1415.00	1680.00
Wrestling Head Coach	1811.00	2272.00	2348.00
Assistant Coach	1454.00	1659.00	1852.00
Softball Head Coach	1290.00	1670.00	2018.00
Assistant Coach	1048.00	1257.00	1707.00
Volleyball Head Coach	966.00	1208.00	1343.00
	2004-2005 School Years		
43
Coaches Salary Schedule
High School	1 to 5 Yrs. Step No. 1	6 to 9 Yrs. Step No. 2	10-Up Step No. 3
Football			
Head Coach	3782.00	4477.00	5376.00
Sophomore Coach	3092.00	3610.00	4259.00
Assistant Coach	2956.00	3511.00	4243.00
Trainer	2640.00	3165.00	3879.00
Basketball			
Head Coach	3763.00	4484.00	5382.00
Sophomore Coach	3044.00	3577.00	4251.00
J.V. Coach	3044.00	3577.00	4251.00
Track			
Head Coach	3371.00	4015.00	4660.00
Assistant Coach	2773.00	3432.00	4019.00
Swimming			
Head Coach	3423.00	4289.00	4724.00
Assistant Coach	2992.00	3562.00	4221.00
Wrestling			
Head Coach	3543.00	4224.00	4774.00
Assistant Coach	3042.00	3610.00	4154.00
Baseball			
Head Coach	3292.00	3994.00	4675.00
Assistant Coach	2983.00	3469.00	4204.00
Cross Country			
Head Coach	2726.00	3280.00	4005.00
(Addendum of $1059.00 for two teams)			
Tennis Head Coach Assistant Coach	2723.00 2352.00	3240.00 2950.00	3846.00 3600.00
Soccer			
Head Coach	3152.00	3919.00	4251.00
Assistant Coach	2954.00	3391.00	4074.00
Golf			
Head Coach	2640.00	3059.00	3785.00
Assistant Coach	1924.00	2304.00	3028.00
2004-2005 School Years
44
Coaches Salary Schedule
High School	1 to 5 Yrs. Step No. 1	6 to 9 Yrs. Step No. 2	10-Up Step No. 3
Gymnastics			
Head Coach	3760.00	4157.00	4926.00
Assistant Coach	2987.00	3535.00	4044.00
Hockey			
Head Coach	3760.00	4157.00	4926.00
Assistant Coach	2987.00	3535.00	4044.00
Softball			
Head Coach	3102.00	3804.00	4485.00
Assistant Coach	2982.00	3469.00	4205.00
Volleyball			
Head Coach	2998.00	3578.00	4214.00
Assistant Coach	2699.00	3211.00	3778.00
Middle School			
Football			
Head Coach	1871.00	2189.00	2422.00
Assistant Coach	1504.00	1736.00	1945.00
Basketball			
Head Coach	2167.00	2682.00	2699.00
Assistant Coach	1868.00	1974.00	2148.00
Track			
Head Coach	1495.00	1878.00	2046.00
Assistant Coach	1246.00	1453.00	1726.00
Wrestling			
Head Coach	1860.00	2333.00	2411.00
Assistant Coach	1493.00	1703.00	1902.00
Softball			
Head Coach	1325.00	1715.00	2073.00
Assistant Coach	1076.00	1291.00	1753.00
Volleyball			
Head Coach	992.00	1240.00	1380.00
Coaches Salary Schedule
45
1.	Teachers may be voluntarily assigned to more than one coaching assignment in interscholastic sports in a single school year.
2.	Teachers may be voluntarily assigned to a senior high school head coaching position in more than one of the following sports — football, baseball, basketball, track, swimming, and wrestling.
3.	All previous interscholastic athletic coaching experience in the Kenosha Public Schools shall be used in determining whether personnel are assigned to Step No. 1, Step No. 2 or Step No. 3.
4.	When staff who hold Appendix C assignments are on child rearing leave from their regular position within the District, he/she may, at the employee’s option, continue in his/her Appendix C assignment so long as the physician releases the employee for Appendix C coaching duties.
5.	Staff with Appendix C assignments will be paid in two (2) equal installments. Prior to the beginning
of each season, each coach may designate whether this compensation is to be paid as part of his/her normal payroll or on a separate check. Payment will be made mid-season and at season end in conjunction with a scheduled payroll within that time period.
6.	All coaching positions that are filled by non-bargaining unit personnel will be posted each school year. Preference for filling these positions will be given to employees covered by the Teacher Salary and Welfare Agreement.
7.	Effective 7/1/03, Appendix C Coaches Salaries will be increased by the same percentage as the salary schedule is increased (the per cell increase).
46
APPENDIX D
Other Services Compensation
2003-2005 School Years
$3,346 per year shall be paid to Tremper and Bradford High School Athletic Chairpersons and Department Chairpersons of the Math, Science, Special Education, Social Science, English, Business Education and Technology Education Departments if they perform department chairperson duties in addition to a normal teaching load.
$1,891 per year shall be paid to Tremper and Bradford High School Department Chairpersons of the Music, Art, Language, Boys' Physical Education, Girls' Physical Education, Family and Consumer Education (F/CE) and Drivers Education departments if they perform department chairperson duties in addition to a normal teaching load.
$1,800 per year shall be paid to House Leaders at Indian Trail Academy of Biotechnology and Environmental Studies (Freshman and Sophomore Level), Biotechnology and Environmental Studies (Junior and Senior Level), Communications (Freshman and Sophomore Level), Communications (Junior and Senior Level), Business and International Studies.
$1,300 per year shall be paid to Indian Trail Academy Department Chairpersons of the Math, Science, Special Education, Social Science, and English Department if they perform department chairperson duties in addition to a normal teaching load.
$800 per year shall be paid to the Indian Trail Academy Department Chairpersons of the Fine Arts, Physical Education and health, Business Education and Technology Education if they perform department chairperson duties in addition to a normal teaching load.
$1,300 per year shall be paid to the Kenosha Military Academy Chairperson if he/she performs department chairperson duties in addition to the normal teaching load.
Co-Department Chairpersons shall be paid proportionately.
Summer of 2003, 2003-2005 School Years
Noon Hour Supervisor	—	Compensation of $11.91	per noon hour.
Driver Education	—	Compensation beyond contract provisions	$18.02 per hour.
Summer School	—	Twenty hour work week	- $360.00 per week.
Senior High School — 2003-2005 Extra Remuneration
Assignments
Academic Decathlon Advisor	$663.00
AV Club Advisor	$2997.00
Cheerleaders	$1190.00
Pompon	$1190.00
47
Appendix D
Other Services Compensation
Debate and Forensics	$1648.00
Fall Director Fall Musical Theater Director Fall Choreographer Fall Musical Director Fall Technical Director	$2500.00 $2500.00 $2000.00 $1500.00 $2000.00
Winter Director Winter Musical Theater Director Winter Choreographer Winter Musical Director Winter Technical Director	$2500.00 $2500.00 $2000.00 $1500.00 $2000.00
Spring Director Spring Musical Theater Director Spring Choreographer Spring Musical Director Spring Technical Director	$2500.00 $2500.00 $2000.00 $1500.00 $2000.00
House Manager	$1002.00 + $23.24 per evening for all outside activities.
Assistant House Manager	$958.00 + $20.14 per evening for all outside activities.
Stage Manager	$958.00 + $20.14 per evening for all outside activities.
Yearbook and Newspaper Advisors	Released time
Middle School - 2003-2005 Extra Remuneration Assignments
Athletic Chairperson	$505.00
Drama Coach	$675.00
Elementary School - 2003-2005 Extra Remuneration Assignments
Safety Patrol Advisor	$300.00 (per elementary school)
When staff who hold Appendix D assignments are on child rearing leave from their regular position with the District, he/she may, at the employee’s option, continue in his/her Appendix D assignment so long as the physician releases the employee for Appendix D duties.
Staff with Appendix D assignments will be paid in two (2) equal installments. Prior to the beginning of each season, each employee may designate whether this compensation is to be paid as part of his/her normal payroll or on a separate check. Payment will be made mid-season and at season end in conjunction with a scheduled
payroll within that time period.	APPENDIX E-l
KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1
48
Kenosha	Wisconsin
2003-2004 SCHOOL CALENDAR
August 20, 21, 22 (Wednesday-Friday)....................................New Teacher Orientation
August 27 (Wednesday)........................................Convocation/Building/Staff	Meetings
August 28 (Thursday)...............................................................Inservice	Day
August 29 (Friday)..............................................................Teacher	Workday*
September 1 (Monday)...................................................................Labor Day
September 2 (Tuesday)...........................................................Students Report
September 24 (Wednesday - ’A Day)..........................................Professional	Inservice
October 30-31 (Thursday-Friday).................................................Convention Days
November 7 (Friday)...............................................First Quarter Ends (47 Days)
November 27-28 (Thursday-Friday).........................................Thanksgiving	Recess
December 10 (Wednesday - A Day).........................................Professional Inservice
December 19 (Friday - Close of Session).................................Winter Recess Begins
January 5 (Monday - Schools Reopen)...........................................Winter	Recess Ends
January 19 (Monday)..........Dr.	Martin Luther King, Jr., Day - ’A Day (A.M.) for Staff and Students
January 23 (Friday).............................................Second	Quarter Ends (43 Days)
January 26 (Monday)........................................................Teacher	Workday*
February 4 (Wednesday - ’A Day)..
March 26 (Friday)................
April 8 (Thursday - Close of Session)
April 19 (Monday - Schools Reopen).
.......Professional Inservice Third Quarter Ends (44 Days) .......Spring Recess Begins .......Spring Recess Ends
May 5 (Wednesday - ’A Day).......................................................Professional	Inservice
May 31 (Monday)................................................................Memorial Day
June 9 (Wednesday)........................Fourth	Quarter Ends (46 Days)ZEnd of Year for Students
June 10 (Thursday)..........................................................Teacher Workday*
RECAPITULATION Teacher-Student Contact Days...............................................................180
Credited Paid Legal Holidays.................................................................3
(Labor Day, Thanksgiving, Memorial Day) Staff Meeting Day (August 27)................................................................1
Inservice Day (August 28)....................................................................1
Teacher Workdays* (August 29, January 26, June 10).......................................... 3
TOTAL PAID DAYS	188
Make-up days: In the event school is closed due to inclement weather or other emergencies the make-up day for students shall be Thursday, June 10, 2004, and the teacher workday shall be Friday, June 11, 2004. If two make-up days are required, the student make-up days will be Thursday, June 10, 2004, and Friday, June 11, 2004, and the teacher workday will be Monday, June 14, 2004.
Prior to the end of each school year, calculations will be done to determine if every school in the District meets Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction required number of student contact days, hours and minutes. If every school meets the above DPI requirements, the snow (“act of God”) day is forgiven. Otherwise, the snow (“act of God”) day will not be forgiven. A thirty-minutes student lunch period will be scheduled into the daily schedule. If because of emergency school closings, additional make-up days are required beyond the two defined in the agreement to provide the 188 total paid contract days, they will be made up at a time as negotiated by the Board and the Association.
*Duties to be assigned will be other than regular classroom instruction.
49
APPENDIX E-2
KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1
Kenosha	Wisconsin
2004-2005 SCHOOL CALENDAR
August 25, 26,27 (Wednesday-Friday)....................................New	Teacher Orientation
August 30 (Monday)..............................................Staff Meeting/Building Meetings
August 31 (Tuesday)............................................................Inservice	Day
September 1 (Wednesday)......................................................Teacher	Workday*
September 2 (Thursday)........................................................Students	Report
September 6 (Monday)................................................................Labor	Day
September 29 (Wednesday - ’A Day)........................................Professional	Inservice
October 28-29 (Thursday-Friday)................................................Convention	Days
November 5 (Friday).................................................First	Quarter Ends (44 Days)
November 25-26 (Thursday-Friday)...........................................Thanksgiving Recess
December 15 (Wednesday - ’A Day).........................................Professional Inservice
December 22 (Wednesday - Close of Session)...............................Winter Recess Begins
January 3 (Monday-Schools Reopen)..........................................Winter Recess Ends
January 17 (Monday)...........Dr.	Martin Luther King, Jr. Day - ’A Day (A.M.) for Students and Staff
January 21 (Friday)..............................................Second Quarter Ends (46 Days)
January 24 (Monday)...........................................................Teacher	Workday*
February 2 (Wednesday - ’A Day)..........................................Professional	Inservice
March 24 (Thursday - Close of Session)..........Third	Quarter Ends (43 Days)/Spring Recess Begins
April 4 (Monday - Schools Reopen)...........................................Spring Recess Ends
May 4 (Wednesday - ’A Day)...............................................Professional	Inservice
May 30 (Monday)...............................................................Memorial Day
June 8 (Wednesday)........................Fourth	Quarter Ends (47 Days)ZEnd of Year for Students
June 9 (Thursday)........................................................Teacher Workday*
RECAPITULATION
Teacher-Student Contact Days................................................................180
Credited Paid Legal Holidays..................................................................3
(Labor Day, Thanksgiving, Memorial Day) Staff Meeting Day (August 30)................................................................ 1
Inservice Day (August 31).................................................................... 1
Teacher Workdays* (September 1, January 24, June 9)...........................................3
TOTAL PAID DAYS	188
Make-up days: In the event school is closed due to inclement weather or other emergencies the make-up day for students shall be Thursday, June 9, 2005, and the teacher workday shall be Friday, June 10, 2005. If two make-up days are required, the student make-up days will be Thursday, June 9, 2005, and Friday, June 10, 2005, and the teacher workday will be Monday, June 13, 2005.
Prior to the end of each school year, calculations will be done to determine if every school in the District meets Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction required number of student contact days, hours and minutes. If every school meets the above DPI requirements, the snow (“act of God”) day is forgiven. Otherwise, the snow (“act of God”) day will not be forgiven. A thirty-minutes student lunch period will be scheduled into the daily schedule. If because of emergency school closings, additional make-up days are required beyond the two defined in the agreement to provide the 188 total paid contract days, they will be made up at a time as negotiated by the Board and the Association.
*Duties to be assigned will be other than regular classroom instruction.
50
APPENDIX F-l
KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1 Kenosha, Wisconsin
PAYROLL DATES FOR TEACHING STAFF 2003-2004 School Year
2003
September 3	Wednesday
September 17	Wednesday
October 1	Wednesday
October 15	Wednesday
October 29	Wednesday
November 12	Wednesday
November 26	Wednesday
December 10	Wednesday
December 24 (Mailed)	Wednesday
2004
January 7	Wednesday
January 22	Wednesday
February 4	Wednesday
February 18	Wednesday
March 3	Wednesday
March 17	Wednesday
March 31	Wednesday
April 14	Wednesday
April 28	Wednesday
May 12	Wednesday
May 26	Wednesday
June 9	Wednesday
	Extended Pay 26 Weeks
June 23	Wednesday (Mailed)
July 7	Wednesday (Mailed)
July 21	Wednesday (Mailed)
August 4	Wednesday (Mailed)
August 18	Wednesday (Mailed)
This is a bi-weekly pay schedule of 21/26 checks covering a 42/52 week period. See Article III,B.
Direct deposit advices for the payrolls of December 24, April 14, and June 23 through August 18 will be mailed to each teacher's permanent address or to a summer forwarding address. The summer forwarding address must be supplied by way of a business sized self-addressed, stamped envelope to the Finance Office on or before May 15, 2004.
51
APPENDIX F-2
KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1 Kenosha, Wisconsin
PAYROLL DATES FOR TEACHING STAFF 2004-2005 School Year
2004
September 1	Wednesday
September 15	Wednesday
September 29	Wednesday
October 13	Wednesday
October 27	Wednesday
November 10	Wednesday
November 24	Wednesday
December 8	Wednesday
December 22 (Mailed)	Wednesday
2005
January 5	Wednesday
January 19	Wednesday
February 2	Wednesday
February 16	Wednesday
March 2	Wednesday
March 16	Wednesday
March 30	Wednesday
April 13	Wednesday
April 27	Wednesday
May 11	Wednesday
May 25	Wednesday
June 8	Wednesday
	Extended Pay 26 Weeks
June 22	Wednesday (Mailed)
July 6	Wednesday (Mailed)
July 20	Wednesday (Mailed)
August 3	Wednesday (Mailed)
August 17	Wednesday (Mailed)
This is a bi-weekly pay schedule of 21/26 checks covering a 42/52 week period. See Article III,B.
Direct deposit advices for the payrolls of December 22, March 30, and June 22 through August 17 will be mailed to each teacher's permanent address or to a summer forwarding address. The summer forwarding address must be supplied by way of a business sized self-addressed, stamped envelope to the Finance Office on or before May 13, 2005.
52
APPENDIX G
DUAL CHOICE DENTAL PLAN BENEFIT SUMMARY
WEAC GROUP Dental Policy	DENTAL PLAN Plus Policy
Maximum Benefit Per Person Per Benefit Year Except Orthodontic Benefits		$2,000	No Maximum
Maximum Benefit Per Person Per Lifetime For Orthodontic Benefits		$2,000	No Maximum
Benefit Period Deductible Per Person		$0	$0
Benefit Provisions DIAGNOSTIC & PREVENTIVE A.	Routine	Examinations B.	Bitewing X-Rays C.	Prophylaxes D.	Fluoride Applications E.	Sealants		WEA Group Dental Policy Payable At A through D are limited to 2 per Benefit Period 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%	Dental Plan Plus Policy Payable At 100% 100% 100%( 1 in a 6-month period) 100% 100%
BASIC A. B. C. D. E. F. G. H. I. J. K. L. M.	Full Series X Ray Anesthesia Teeth Extractions Oral Surgery Filling Stainless Steel Crowns Space Maintainers Root Canal Therapy Periodontic Treatments Denture Repair Consultations Occlusal Adjustments Emergency Care	80%	100% 80%	100%(local and nitrous oxide) 80%	100% 80%	100% 80%	100%(excluding lab charges) 80%	100%(excluding lab charges) 80%	100% 80%	100% 80%	100% 80%	100%(excluding	lab	charges) 80%	100% 100%($ 1 OOlifetimemax) 100% 80%	$50 maximum	
OPTIONAL BENEFITS			
I. II. III.	Onlays, Porcelain Crowns, and	Cast Crowns	80% Bridges	80% Dentures	80%		100%(excluding lab charges) 100%(excluding lab charges) 100%(excluding lab charges)
AMENDMENTS	Orthodontia to Age 25 Self and Spouse Covered	50%	50% co-payment until the CoParticipant’s out-of-pocket expenses equal $450. Covers at 100% thereafter.
53
APPENDIX H-l
SCHEDULE OF HEALTH BENEFITS
Employer: KENOSHA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1
Benefit Period: JANUARY THROUGH DECEMBER DOES NOT INCLUDE CARRYOVER
Maximum Deductible: $100 PER INDIVIDUAL, $300 PER FAMILY
Stop Loss: $100 PER INDIVIDUAL, $300 PER FAMILY, INCLUDES DEDUCTIBLE
Maximum Aggregate Benefit: $1,000,000. Effective 1/1/2000, the maximum		Restoration: $2,000	
aggregate benefit is restored every five (5) years.	SUBJECT TO DEDUCTIBLE		
		PAYABLE AT	INCLUDED MAX-AGG
COVERED BASIC EXPENSES Including charges for surgery, inpatient hospital services, room and board, and emergency services COVERED MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES	YES	100%*	YES
A. Physicians’s Office Call (Routine Physical - YES)	YES	100%	YES
B.	Other Medical Expenses C.	Outpatient Mental Health/Substance Abuse 1.	First $2000 for Outpatient Treatment of Nervous and Mental Disorders and Substance Abuse 2.	First $3000 for Transitional Treatment Arrangements for Treatment of Nervous	YES	100%	YES
and Mental Disorders and Substance Abuse 3.	Supplemental Benefit for Outpatient Treatment of Nervous and Mental Disorders and Substance Abuse, not subject to dollar maximum per visit	NO	90%	YES
or visit maximum D. Treatment of Kidney Diseases	YES	80%	YES
1. Basic Expenses	YES	100%	YES
2. Other Expenses	YES	100%	YES
E.	Dental Expenses - Injury Only F.	Optional Dental -	YES	100%	YES
Extraction/Initial Replacement		NA	NC	NA
PRESCRIPTION DRUG: $7.00 DEDUCTIBLE BRAND NAME/$2.00 GENERIC
OTHER OPTIONAL BENEFITS:
DEPENDENT STUDENT TO AGE 25
All benefits are subject to all provisions, exclusions, and limitations contained in the Policy.
*Rate based on carrier’s Reasonable & Customary Charges. Non-network practitioners may charge more than carrier’s Reasonable & Customary Charges. These amounts are not subject to payable rate.
54
APPENDIX H-2
GROUP LONG TERM CARE POLICY BENEFIT SUMMARY
Elimination Period:	30 days
Benefit Provisions:
Levels of Long Term Care: 1. Skilled Nursing Care
2.	Intermediate Nursing Care
3.	Custodial Care
4.	Home Health Care
5.	Adult Day Care
6.	Respite Care
Maximum Daily Benefits as of September 1, 1999:
Nursing Facility Care (Skilled
Nursing Care, Intermediate
Nursing Care, or Custodial
Care) Benefit:	75% of actual charges up to a maximum of $171,38/day
Alternate Care Facility:	75% of actual charges up to a maximum of $171,38/day
Home Health Care Benefit: 75% of actual charges up to a maximum of $171,38/day
Adult Day Care Benefit:	75 % of actual charges up to a maximum of $171,38/day
Respite Care Benefit:	$85.09 per day; 14 days per Benefit Period
Maximum Lifetime Benefit for
Each Covered Individual $256,551.00
Inflation Protection Benefit: Each maximum daily benefit, and the unused amount of the Maximum Lifetime Benefit, is increased annually on September 1 by 5% of the previous year’s amount. Please contact WEA Insurance for current maximum daily and lifetime benefit amounts.
Waiver of Premium Qualification: Either
1.	90 days after the covered employee has been certified as Chronically Ill. No
retroactive refund of premium.
OR
2.	After covered employee has retired, has attained age 65, and has paid premiums or had premiums paid on his/her benefit for at least 360 months.
55
APPENDIX I
SCHEDULE OF LONG TERM DISABILITY BENEFITS
After being off the job for any reason for more than ninety (90) calendar days, the long term disability benefit will pay 90% of annual salary until the individual’s return to work. Effective 1/1/2000, after being off the job for any reason for more than ninety (90) calendar days, the long term disability benefit will pay 90% of annual salary until the individual’s return to work.
The premium is fully paid by the Board and is only paid for the period of the regular school year, from September to June.
56
APPENDIX J-l
SCHEDULE OF LIFE INSURANCE BENEFITS
Cost of Insurance:
Your monthly payments are determined as of July 1 of each year based on your age on that date and your amount of insurance. The monthly rates for Basic and Additional insurance are shown below. These rates are effective beginning in 1999 and could change annually. Basic coverage equals one times pay rounded to the next thousand. Additional coverage provides total of two times pay rounded to next thousand. If coverage is waived, proof of insurability is required to obtain coverage. The amounts of coverage and rates may be subject to changes made by the Group Insurance Board.
MONTHLY RATES PER $1,000 OF INSURANCE
Basic and Additional
Attained Age
Under 30 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50 - 54 55 - 59 60-64 65 - 69* 70 and over	$ .05 .06 .07 .10 .16 .30 .48 .53 .60 **
Amount of Coverage - Spouse/Dependentfs)
If you meet eligibility requirements, you may apply for one or two units of Spouse and Dependent term life insurance. You may not elect more than two units of coverage even if you are employed by more than one participating employer. However, you and your spouse may both elect Spouse and Dependent coverage if both employers offer it. There is no accidental Death, Dismemberment or Loss of Use coverage in the Spouse and Dependent Plan. The amounts of coverage and rates under each unit may be subj ect to changes made by the Group Insurance Board.
Unit I	Spouse	$10,000
$3/month	Each Dependent	5,000
Effective 7/1/2000	- $2/month	
Units I and II	Spouse	$20,000
$6/month	Each Dependent Child	10,000
Effective 7/1/200 -	$4/month	
Cost of Insurance:
Each unit of Spouse and Dependent life insurance costs $3 a month. Therefore, if you take two units of coverage, your cost would be $6. This represents the total cost of the insurance, regardless of the number of family members you have insured.
57
APPENDIX J-2
KENOSHA SCHOOL DISTRICT
Group No.: 326.0
Group Term Life
03260 002 19 99 10 11 001 N
Addendum to WEA Insurance Group Life Policy and Certificate (Underwritten by Trustmark) Benefit Summary
Policyholder: Trustees of the Wisconsin Education Association Insurance Fund
Participator: KENOSHA SCHOOL DISTRICT
Policyholder Number: 36001
Plan Number: 660101
Effective Date: 01/01/2000
This Plan does not include Retiree Coverage
Benefits:
Life Insurance
Accidental Death and Dismemberment Benefit (AD&D)
Optional Group Life Insurance
Minimum Enrollment - 50% of Eligible Class Accelerated Life Benefit
Amount
Flat Amount: $10,000*
Flat Amount: $10,000
N/A
Dependent Life Insurance
Dependent Option Life Insurance - (Option 1)
Double Dependent Option Life Insurance - (Option 2)
Option 1	Option 2
Spouse	Not Applicable Not Applicable
Each Child Over 14 Days Old	Not Applicable Not Applicable
Minimum Enrollment - 50% of Eligible Class with Dependents
* The combined Life and Optional Group Life Insurance amount cannot exceed:	$200,000
The Life Insurance amount in force for your Eligible Class is: Active Participants:
Less Than Age 70	100%
Age 70 to 75	65%
Age 75 to 80	45%
Age 80 and over	30%
The new amounts will be effective on the later of:
1.	The first day of the month which falls on or next follows each of those birthdays; or
2.	The date your insurance becomes effective.
If the mounts in force for your class and salary later changes due to a change in coverage, class, or salary, the same reductions will apply to those amounts.
All Benefits are subject to all provisions, exclusions, and limitations contained in the Policy.
January 27, 2000	Page 1
19620198.Ife	1962-697-0198
58
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the 1st day of July, 2003, by and between the School Board of the Kenosha Unified School District No. 1 and the Kenosha Education Association, certified collective bargaining representative for certified teaching personnel of said District.
KENOSHA EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
KENOSHA SCHOOL BOARD UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NO.
1
President
President
Date
Date
59