ARTICLE! XVII
DURATION AND RATIFICATION
Section 1	- Term of AgrwMMnt:
This agreement shall remain in full force and effect for a period commencing August 1,	2001 through July 31,2004
Section 2	- Full and Coaplot* Agrtaaant;
This agreement constitutes the full and complete agreement between the School Board and the Manatee Education Association.
Section 3	- Severability:
The provisions of this agreement shall be severable, and if any provision thereof or the application of any such provision is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction or as a result of State or Federal legislation, it shall not affect any other provision of this agreement or the application of any provision thereof.
Section 4	* feopenecs:
Negotiations on the following reopeners shall begin on June 1,2003 of' each year, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
■Annual Reopeners shall her
A.	Salary Schedule
B,	Compensation 5 Health Insurance, Article XII
C.	Two (2) provisions named by Manatee Education Association
D,	Two (2) provisions named by Manatee County School Board
g4 Provisions are defined as a section to an Article
Teacl»r Contract 2001-2004
Teacher Contract
Article V; WgjAdpg Coadz tieris
Ne-y Section:
Section 3S: Paperwork Coanattee;
A. As per Florida statute 229.55jJ(z}(b)(l), a district oversight committee shall be formed to review and appro veg retru i red district forms and paperwork requirements. The committee will be composed of five (5) administrative personnel appointed by the Superintendent and seven (7) teachers representatives appointed by the Manatee Education Association. The committee shall meet monthly, at minimum, during the regular school year and will be responsible for developing and recommending procedures for the reduction, revision, consolidation, and elimination of paperwork and data collection requirements. An annual report of the committee’s findings and activities shall be submitted to the school board.
B.
The committee will consider, at minimum:
1.
2,
the type and origin of the fom'paperwork, whether it Is a paper form or electronic form or generated by computer or e-mail.
Whether or not the information exists elsewhere and can be accessed pre- inserted on the form.
C,
Existing forms /paperwork will be reviewed to determine the need for the paperwork and to eliminate duplication.
D.
All existing and newly developed forms will be approved or disapproved by committee and will be assigned an approval date, number, and distribution fist. v
&—A school site may appeal the decision of the Paperwork Committee to implement or reject a form requested by tha school-site. The appeal may be filed with tho
Superintendent and the Manatee Education-Association who shall-maire a final decision regarding -the form.
E, School level forms are not subject to flpgrovgf fry rfte district oversight
committeeJ>_ut may be reviewed upon appeal to the committee by ike- 0 /I C\A
K—Teaohera	not bo respensible-for the corapletiorf-or^tumbfE^paj^vor^^^^
that has not-met the requirements ■efthio-sectioft-of the contract.
F* Teachers will not be responsible for the completion or return of any new district required forms/paperwork that have not been approved by the oversight committee.
Teacher
ARTICLE V
WORKING CONDITIONS.
Section 1 - School Calendar: The School Board will continue to receive input from the Association in the development of the school calendar.
Section 2 - Basic School Day: The specific daily hours of employment for teachers may vary according to the needs of the educational program of the school district. The specific hours for each school center shall be designated by the Superintendent or his designee. It is understood that the daily hours of employment for teachers shall be a maximum of 7 H hours per day, inclusive of lunch. Exceptions to the 7 4 hour day shall be:
1.	Back-to-School Night: An annual back to school night may be held. Teachers shall be notified twenty (20) days prior to back to school night. Permission for absence from this event shall be obtained from the principal by those teachers having conflicts.
2.	Supervisory Duties - It is not the intent to increase teacher's supervisory duties beyond what had been the general practice in the past.
3,	Faculty Meetings - Principals shall take steps to minimize the need for more than one faulty meeting per month by utilizing E-mail, memos, or other alternate means of communication. Principals shall schedule no more than 14 faculty meetings per year on student attendance days. The intent of this Language is not to increase the number of faculty meetings outside the normal workday. It is not the intent to increase faculty meetings beyond what has been the general practice in the past,
Faculty meetings will le defined as a mandatory meeting of all the staff assigned fro the school.
Emergency meetings will not be counted as a part of the allotted 14 jfactilty. Jaeetings per year. An emergency wall he defined as scanething which could not he reasonably an 11cipated.
Teacher	- 2 -
All other faculty aeefcingg beyond fche allotted airmh**-will ba on a voluntary basfg.
-required to attend.
FiTTTTJi cy AKDberg wi 12 not be
4,	Accreditation - Teachers shall participate in accreditation activities,
5,	Early dismissal - In recognition that teachers may work beyond the normal work day because of the exceptions, principals may permit teachers to leave school before the close of the normal teacher workday on school days immediately preceding a holiday or student vacation day , as long as students are not left unsupervised.
6.	Elementary Early Release/ Elementary Report Card Pick Up
(a)	Scheduling: If the School Board authorizes the elementary school student to be released early related to implementation of the new report card system, teacher will be released early on two student attendance days for each report card pick up and scheduled for a comparable amount of time for parent conferences outside the regular workday. The plan for scheduling these parent , conferences shall be by consensus of the principal and teachers. Included in this plan shall be a procedure to assure coordination of conferences and a procedure for notifying parents- Also included in the plan shall be the assignment of assistance in arranging conferences. The School Board shall determine the dates for elementary early release no later than the first board meeting in November for the 1991-92 school year and no later than the first board meeting in September for each subsequent year. Unless the School Board authorizes early release for elementary students, all parent conferences outside the regular duty day shall be voluntary,
(b)	Conferences on Record Days: No teacher will be ~ required to schedule parent conferences on the designated Record Days, however teachers may schedule parents • conferences on the designated Record Days at their discretion,	...
7.	Banking and Voting: The principal may permit teachers to conduct banking business on paydays and vote on election
»
Paraprofessional
-1 -
ARTICLE VII EMPLOYEE EVALUATION
Section 1:	Evaluation Procedures:
Paraprofessionals shall normally be evaluated annually and such evaluation shall be completed no later than May 1 of the school year unless otherwise agreed by the Principal and employee, or if circumstances justify a later evaluation date. Employees will be notified if such circumstances exist prior to the May 1 due date.
fr.inci.pals ray izse formal ox inforntal observations In the •valuation process. Principals ray ragnest taachcx input ia ths obgervation process. However teachers will not be required to prepare or sign"*86^•valuation instrumanfc. ALL formal evaluations will be the responsibility of tbs school administration.
Should necessary improvements become apparent during the evaluation process, said improvements shall be noted on the form together with specific improvements desired, time for improvements to be made and assistance to be provided if necessary. Such notification will be provided and assistance initiated within a reasonable time period during the school year in which the needs improvement is noted.
Paraprofessionals shall be provided a copy of the written evaluation within ten (10} working days following the evaluation. An observation by the Principal or his/her designee shall precede the formal evaluation. Within 10 days of receipt of the evaluation, the employee may request and be given a conference concerning the evaluation. All formal observations and evaluations shall be conducted with the knowledge of the employee being evaluated.
A paraprofessional may not decline to sign a completed evaluation form. This signature does not mean agreement with the content, but is a record that the paraprofessional has, in fact, seen, the evaluation.
A paraprofessional shall not be requested, or required, to sign a blank or incomplete evaluation form.
A paraprofessional has the right to include an addendum to the written evaluation. Anonymous data shall not be placed in a paraprofessional’s personnel file.
Paraprofessional
-2-
Section 2	New Employee Observations;
Employees who are initially employed at the beginning of the school year shall be observed no Later than November 15th.	:
Section 3	Evaluation Forms:
The forms, as set forth in appendices "C", "D" and "E”, for information purposesf shall be used for formal written observations, evaluations and employee response to formal evaluation. The Association shall have input into the development or contemplated change of any such form.
Section 4	Assessment Committee .*
The parties agree to have a committee to study the evaluation system for paraprofessionals and to recommend improvements. MEA will appoint 6 (six) representatives to the committee from the bargaining units represented by MEA. The Superintendent will appoint six (6) representatives from management to the committee. Until such time as ■ ■ changes an/or new forms are adopted by the partiesf the current system and forms shall be used.

Memorandum of Agreement
D and F School Bonus Allocation for ’OO-'Ol
General Eligibility
1.	All classroom teachers who worked at Samoset Elementary, Southeast High School or in an alternative school serving disruptive students during the 1999-2000 school year and returned for the 2000-2001 will be recommended by their principal to receive a $1000 bonus.
2.	All classroom teachers who were newly hired to work at Samoset Elementary, Southeast High School or an alternative school serving disruptive students during the 2000-2001 school year will be recommended by their principals to receive a $1000 bonus.
3.	"Classroom teacher” is defined as those instructional personnel included on the Public School Staff Survey-EEO5 in activity assignment codes 21-33 (i.e., pre-K through 12 classroom teachers, art music, PE and ESE teachers). As per the state statute, Guidance Counselors, Media Specialists, technology coordinators and others who do not fall within the definition of "classroom teacher” are not eligible for this program.
4.	The classroom teachers will receive their bonuses on or before
December 21,2001,
Signing for the Manatee County School District
Signing for the Manatee Education Association
request to the university. This will not entitle the teacher to payment, but will reserve payment until proof is received.
Subdivision 4 - Fringe Benefits *
1.	A Toxjq life Insurance Policy is paid by the Manatee County School Board equal in amount to the annual salary and option to increase amount for a nominal rate. The School board will provide a contribution of .10 per employee, per month for all employees who purchase a second salary level of life insurance. The parties recognize that this agreement is full settlement of all claims which might arise related to contributions by the Board for life insurance for employees with a second salary level of life insurance.
2.	Worker's Compensation - Teachers on worker's compensation leave shall be permitted to supplement such payments with their own accumulated sick leave benefits, up to their regular daily rate of pay. Deductions for use of sick leave will be made according to past practice, unless otherwise agreed. Sick leave bank may not be used for worker’s compensation absences.
3.	Payroll deduction for a Tax Shelter Annuity.
4.	Master Plan for Inservice Education.
5.	The number of PESCO deduction slots requested by MEA for which the MEA shall hold the School Board harmless and indemnify the Board against all liability resulting from such deductions. Additional slots will be available in July, 1999.
Subdivision 5 - Teacher Payday:
1.	Monthly Pay - Teachers shall be paid on the 10th day of each school month with these exceptions:
a.	If a payday falls on a non-workday, teachers shall receive their paychecks on the last workday prior to payday.
b.	Teachers shall receive one check equivalent to thiee pays on the 10 th day of the next to last month of the school
year. Their final check will be paid on the next scheduled pay date following their last- day of work and will be mailed.
2.	Semi-Monthly Pay: Salary shall be divided by 24 equal pays issued on the 10th and 25th of the month with these exceptions:
a.	If a pay date falls on. a non-work day, teachers shall receive their paychecks on the last workday prior to the payday.
b.	Teachers shall receive one check equivalent to six pays on the 10th of the next to last month of the
school year. Their final paycheck will be paid on the next scheduled pay date following their last day of work and will be mailed.
c.	Teacher's December 25th check will be mailed on the next to last District Office workday prior to the holiday. For employees utilizing direct deposit, funds will be deposited into employees* bank account on the last workday prior to the holiday for the District Office.
3.	The policy of the School Board is that upon affirmative action of the Board, School Board members. Superintendent of Schools, School Board Attorney, officers, employees, and present or former agents may be reimbursed for any judgment which may be granted against him or her in a civil action, and for damages, costs, and attorney's fees.
Defense of the legal actions governed by this policy shall include but not be limited to, any civil rights lawsuit seeking relief personally against such officers, employees, present or former agents, School Board members, Superintendent of Schools, and School Board Attorney, under color of state law, custom, or usage. Any personal final judgment including damages, costs, and attorney's fees may be paid unless it has been determined by the School Board and the final judgment that the harm was caused intentionally.
In the event the School Board provides legal liability* insurance, it is the policy of the School Board that:
Teacher
- 1 -
Article X Unpaid Leaves
Section 2 - Unpaid Leaves
(2.) Unpaid leave for other reasons
A„ Requests for unpaid leaves illness shall be recommended at Superintendent or his designee, entitled to such leave pursuant Leave Act.
for reasons other than the discretion of the unless the employee is
the
B.	Unpaid leave will be granted in to take employment elsewhere. This
order shall
Family and Medical
for an employee include the Employees will in writing by to work for the
opportunity to work in a Charter School, notify the Office of Personnel Management April 1 March I of their intent to return
following year. 22iia date will apply, district wide fee notification for return from	leaves other than
17 7 rress ox mill tary learva.
C.	Except emergencies, unpaid leave request shall be made prior to May 1 of the school year preceding the school year during which the leave is to be taken if..such—leave is to commence at the beginning of the school year. Any such leave shall be for the entire school year unless other arrangements are more beneficial to the school district, as determined by the Superintendent or his designee.
Teacher
- 1 -
ARTICLE XI
VACANCIES, TRANSFERS AND PROMOTIONS
Section I	* Poshing* of Vacancies:
ftjwm—inatructional vacancies ohall be posted for- ten—(10) work days in all -school buildings ctarti-ng on thc--£*iratwork day-in-April—and ■ continuing through until the first day of school for ot-udonto.—instructional vacanci-ea—which occur after the first day of school for students through fche lane workday in March will be pooted-for five—(5) -work days in all-achoel-buildings,-----Poati-Hg will include vacancy
notices being placed on the school di-atrict web site,—H»e clect-ronic—bulletin board,—on the—job vacancy tapes,—and in written form in the school-bi±i-ldingo/—she- central offi-building and at summer-programs job sites>
Known las true tzoaal yacaned.es /oz* the jfaJlowing school year shall be ppsted for 10 workdays a^-aytlng on the first workday in Apz-il and cont'f^^^cg through the ^zjst day of work £oz* teachez-s in Augusta Znstnzctdonal vacancies wh5ch occur a£tez* the dfinst teacher work day through the remainder o£ the school year shall he posted for five work daysir all school bn±lrf*frigs, Postings will include vacancy notices being placed on the district web site, electronic bulletin board, job vacancy recordings and in written form at school sites and the district office and at summer school program job sites.
The Board shall place a copy of the posting of vacancy in the Manatee Education Association mailbox in the office services building at the Ccoi&ty Office.
Vacancy notices shall include the name of the positions, location and anticipated level. After the applicant has been officially approved to fill the position, other applicants will be promptly notified of the decision.
Section 2	Involuntary Transfers:
A. Should involuntary transfers become necessary, among other factors , length of service in the county, certifications, and major and minor fields of stuay shall be the determining factors as to which teachers
Teacher
shall be transferred. MEA shall be consulted prior to and at every step of the involuntary procedure-
S. Volunteers.to transfer shall be requested prior to assigning an involuntary transfer. Each teacher in the affected school will be notified of the positions to be transferred and given a list of the open vacancies and a form to designate transfer positions in which they may be interested. Teachers wishing to be considered for transfer shall' return the form as directed on the form within the time deadlines stated on the form.
C.	The teacher with mos: seniority within the area of certification shall have the first option to stay in a position, or transfer , with such option extended to all teachers on a diminishing basis until one elects to transfer or until such time as the teacher with the least amount of seniority is required to transfer.
D.	A written, notice of involuntary transfers will be made at Least five days in advance of the date of transfer. Upon request the MEA shall be provided the rationale leading to the proposed involuntary transfer(s).
E.	Involuntary transfers shall be made only after a meeting between the teacher(s) involved and the Superintendent or his designeef at which time the teacher(s) shall be notified of the reasons for the transfer (s). The Superintendent shall recommend to the Board all transfers of personnel.
F.	Teachers involuntarily transferred or reassigned after school begins shall be provided at least one (1) released day to be utilized in preparation of the new assignment.
Section 3	- Voluntary Transfers:
A.	During the posting period any teacher possessing the appropriate certification may apply for a posted vacancy. and1 all ■ trcinsf or—applicants ohall be conoid erod.A-ficw hire shall-not bo placad in-a pooted pooition-until al-i transfer -applicants for th.-e < portion-have been- considered.
Teacher
-3’
A. All currently employed teachers who apply for a posted vacancy shall have their file reviewed prior to considering any new applicant for the vacancy, Currently employed teachers will be given strong preference for a vacancy for which they are certified. Vacancies which occur aftor--fehe firzt student day through the last werkda-y- in March will require consent from -t-hc sending-trad receiving Principal-prior to allowing'the eiHsrent-employee-to-transfer to the vacancy.—Vacancies occurring at—other times will not require" the concent of the sending Principal befo-r-e
allowing-a-'current employee' to accept a transfer.
Vacancies cccruzdjig after the fir at teacher workday
through the end of the school year wzZZ reqtLLjra	tj \ £ p.
cogaant from the sen^nq and zeceiviuq pzdzicipaZ prior J fl/vj/j to aZZowdnq the currant employee to transfer into the	Jy I
vacant position. Vacancies jogenrring for the foZZow±ag^>^LV A ■school year will not mqnire the consent of the V YY Jy^ sending principal before allowing the enpioyge to	7	_ I
transfer.	1 J-/	\
B,	The principal or his/her designee shall interview a
minimum of eight transfer candidates for any posted	?W 1
vacancy, Should less than eight qualified transfer	nv\
applicants apply for a posted vacancy, all shall be interviewed,	m
C.	Applications for a posted vacancy shall be on file in
the personnel office within ten flflj yprJr day3 the r equired posting time,^of the initial posting date. A transfer applicant who is not recommended for the transfer will be notifxad and may request, in writing, reason(s) for not being selectdd.
Section 4	- Promotions:
School personnel are encouraged to prepare tnemselves f©j? advancement in the profession. Vacancies shall be posted for ten (10) working days. When an employee believes that he meets certification, and other requirements for an administrative or supervisory position, an application should be made, in writing, to the Director of Personnel Services♦
1
ARTICLE IX
PAID LEAVES
Section 1:Personal Illness, Family Illness, Bereavement:
Any reacher who is unable to perform his duties because of illness, or because of the illness or death of father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, child, other close relative, ox member of his own household, and consequently has to be absent from his work shall be granted leave of absence for sickness by the Superintendent, or by someone designated in writing by him to do so. The following provisions shall govern sick leave:
Extent of Leave: As outlined in Florida Statutes 231,40, each full-time member of the instructional staff shall be granted four (4) days of sick leave as of the first day of employment of each current year, and thereafter during that fiscal year shall be credited with one (1) additional day of sick leave at the end of each month of employment until the allowance for ten-month employees reaches ten (10) days.
The same provision shall apply for 11-month employees until they have reached eleven (11) days, and for 12-month employees until they have reached twelve (12) days*
Leave not used during any fiscal year may accumulate without limit *
Section 2:	Sick Leave Statement:
Consistent with past practice, employees shall have a sick leave balance on each paycheck*
Section 3:	Use of Sick Leave by a Family
An employee of the ftjanatee County School Dis tri ct may authorize his or her spouse, child,. parent^ or sibling who is also a district employee to use sick leave that, has accrued to the authorizing employee* The recipient may not use the donated sick leave until all of his or her sick leave has been depleted, not including sick leave from a sick leave pool, if the recipient participates in a sick leave pool,	*
Donated sick leave under this provision shall have no terminal value to the recipient as provided in Article XIII of this contract and Florida Statute 231.40 (3). However,unus e d donated
sick leave will, revert to maintain its value upon re
the individual who dona u ed k it/\ and shall Tirement g feityk.	j ri i -^r^
Donated SicJt leave Authori<zatlon
I authorize the donation of days.of si ofc leave to
(name of person)
(posl tlon)
who is related to me as af Espouse, ( )parent,(	) child,
f Jsibiing-. (check one).
I understand this form will authorize deduction of the stated days from my sick leave and the donation of these days to the person named on this form.
(pate)
(Signature and, position of person authorizing donation of leave.?

ARTICLE XII
COMPENSATION AND HEALTH INSURANCE
Section 1	- Salary:	? y/
The salary schedule shall be as set forth in Appendix This agreement is entered into in anticipation of the receipt of funds appropriated by the 2002 Florida Legislature an of September 1;—The partieo—recognize that fad-lure of the etato to provide funch nt the anticipated—level may require the School 3curd to unde-efunc thia-agreement »--In sa-ch a cuoc,—the-partiog agree to enter
into negotdatiorra- prior te-any ouch Board action. The parties recognize that economic conditions exist that may cause the Legislature to provide funds at a less than anticipated_ level therefore requiring the School hoard to underfund this agreement. The parties also recognize that the Legislature may provide a level of funding greater than anticipated commensurate with fewer restrictions regarding expend!tures. The parties further agree that the Sc/iqol Board of Manatee County and the Manatee County .Education AssociatiOxn will enter into negotiations regarding the level of funding prior to any Board action to reduce or increase the funding level of this agreement.
Levels of funding that may cause this agreement to be underfunded would include:
1.	An FEFP appropriation of less than 1.5% per unweighted FTE, after growththan the 2001-2002 appropriation not covered by flexibility of any categorical funding allowed by the legislature.
Specific levels of funding that would allow this agreement to be renegotiated at a higher funding -level would be;
1 - An FSFP appropriation of 33 or greater per unweighted FTE, after growth, than the 2001-2032 appropriation,
2.	Categorical flexibility as allowed by the legislature will be a factor in determining the percent,
MSA insurance commitment;
The Manatee Education Association agrees to work with the Manatee County School Board to ensure the continued
actuarial viability and stability of the insurance fund by negotiating any necessary plan ana rate changes after the 2002-2003 fiscal year.
1009-2000:
I-ncrca_ae-calariGs by 2.9% fwthc. 1599-2000 ochool ycag-r M.1—payments- ger galaxy incrcuaGa will -ba rat-roaofe-iva qo of Jtt-ly 1-, 1999.
Gra-nt all—indgomcntg—fox—the 1999 20 00.ochool year. — :—
Provide—a one time bonus of 1,5% to each employee--who--does-net—reoeiyc •■ an increment, cm the-_oalafy-oohedule-s- _,Tho_benuo will bo paid on or before March =-5, 2000-r
l-nc^eaae all supplements—by 2.5% for ,1990-2006 oohool-yoag-.
aeoG-goei:
Increase all oe-iar-iQO by 3%-a% ior the 200G-20G-1 ashool year.
Grant all increment3—fcr-the 2000 2-G01 ■achopl---yaar.
Provide a one- time bonua of-2% -to reach employee, who doos-ttot-receive an- increment-. The bonuo will b° paid on eg before-January L-9f 2001.-
Incroase all aupplomcnta by-3.5-^ for -2000—2001-acheol-ye&g-r
Addendum: -2-000—2001-^-
The paroonta-gQ—increago in this aggcemcn-t will be_ in addition tp the- contaictafll salary already negotiated -for g-hc-school- veer 2000-2&S1.
?ho-oalary wi!4:- be, iftera_3gcd_-j&y 1,25% at aoeh otep and lane of t-hc-oul'ary Dchodtalp-evqs-the- 2000 2Q01-contrqct-
A-ll -supplemented poaitions -will- bo increaaod by ,1.25%_ over the -2000-20-3^-pa-yv-
Paymcnt will- be—retroactive t-e the beginning--of-the -eohoel yee-r. ■ Ml rotsouctivc pay yill be included jjr- the—figgfe1 paycheck for—empleyecp in October, 2009-.
2061-2002:
All full time members of the teacher bargaining unit will receive a one time bonus of $850 to be paid no later than October 10,2001.
All increments will be paid for the 2001-2002 school year, beginning with the start of the new fiscal year*
Members of the teachers bargaining unit on steps which did not include an increment will receive an adjustment to the salary schedule equal to 1.25%.
Teachers who have more than 8 years of public school teaching experience which did not transfer when they were originally employed in the Manatee County School District may receive credit for such experience on the salary schedule if no later tha*n February 15, 2002 they provide documentation of the experience to the district. The additional experience will be credited to the teacher beginning the last quarter of the school year, with	*
payments to begin with the SfiEgyj6S@,2002 payroll.	!$
Documentation of the experience may include verification as currently exist in the personnel file of the Manatee County School District, however it will be the responsibility of the teacher to copy and provide the documentation for the district*
If the documentation does not oxist in the district file, it will be the responsibility of the teach^fy claiming the experience to provide written proof of such experience. Upon providing such proof, the teacher will be eligible for credit of all verified experience as noted in the paragraph above. If the teacher has requested proof of experience and it has not been received by February 15,2092, copies of written request and/or correspondence will serve as intent to meet the deadline. Payment will not be made until actual verification is received.
All Supplements will be increased 1% for the school year 2001-2002. Mew supplements will be those as added below.
Athletic Trainer	$6300
Test Coordinator	$1029
£SE Secondary Chairperson $2972
Middle School Yearbook $1397
Middle School Newspaper $13.97
All payments will be retroactive to the beginning of the school year. All retroactive pay will be included in the paycheck for employees no later than February 10^2002.
2002-2003:
All full time members of the teacher bargaining unit will receive all credit on the salary schedule for previous public school experience, provided the procedure has been followed as outlined in the language stated under the 2001-2002 provisions.
A new salary schedule will be in effect as of the beginning of the fiscal year for 2002-2003. The salary schedule will include two lanes, one for annual contract and, one for PSC for each degree level. All bargaining unit employees will be placed on the appropriate step for the new schedule.
All increments will be paid for the 2002-2003 school year, after the placement on the appropriate lane is made. Increments will be paid beginning with the new fiscal year for 2002-2003.
The new salary schedule will be increased by 2,5% beginning with the new fiscal year for 2002-2003.
Members of the teachers bargaining unit will receive an adjustment on steps 15-25 of the PSC lane of the salary schedule, retroactive to the beginning of the fiscal year.
The supplement schedule will be increased by 2.5% for the 2002-2003 school year. The following supplements will be added for 2002-2003:
Media Specialist_____$1 773
Child Study Team Coordinator $1778.
Section 2	- Supplemental Salary Schedule.* t
The supplement salary schedule shall be as set forth in Appendix ,TGT\
xAs per current contract except -add the following-—Beginning with—the-"1999 20 0 0 school year,— to the supplement schedule along with-the proposed inczciisQ in supplement amounts?
Women's--Sqiiifey—Coordinator", -to be paid- $4000 -per ycctf- and have a scheduled el ago rcsponaibilitieo Qqual. to-t-hqt cri? the Mh-lotic Director of the hi-gh schools,— The equity coordinator will assist all-high cehools in ntcoting-t-he ptutc u-ftd federal requirements for gender-equity in oporto participation,-
Assiafennt Cheerloader Spongor and Drill Toam/Dance Sponaorj to bo oemponsated at the game level as Aosistunt-Varsity Football Coach,in recognition qf the requirement for multi seasonal ae-tivitioo-r
ROTG-or Cadofc Jnafcxuctora■■ 'ROTC and Cadet Instructors wiH remain at their current: placement and will- receive all percentage increases for that stop until a formula to be proposed at a latox t-imc to 'aoaurc equity in pay foir-thcse instruction employees can--ba negotiated. _No ROTC or Cadet-inot-ruateor wil-1 receive any less pay than, they are currently receiving for the -1999 ■ 209-0 ■ ochoei- year-.
Reopening fog uddifeiona.1 ■compensnfeica?-
The -parties agree that—H=-j-
—during -the 20 0G-20Q1 fiocal-ycar, 4-b) -fehe school district receive 3-mo re than 108% of the revenues frem the -Florida Educational Finance Program adopt-ed in thc-2000 2001 tentative or final budget,—fer Part—I
■fe) fehc parties ohall-reopen this 'agreement for the purpose of negotiation regarding compensation.
Section 5 “ Plan Design Change:
1990—20G0» -Bffccti-ve April 4.-,- 2000-r
9ingle/Family deductible will be- inoge&oed fram $250/$S00 to-$30Q/$gQ0. The fam±-ly deductible will bo tL botal-of, $600 rather than two indivi-dnal-s at
go- Insuronoo will ohango from 90% in network/-70% etit not-work-to 80%-in network/ 60% out of networks-
Out—of pocket maximums—Change, from $500 to $M00,-
2001-2002: Effective January 1, 2002:
Single/Family deductible will be increased from $300/$600 to $400/$800. The family deductible will be a total of $800 rather than two individuals at $400.
Jut of packet maximum: The single will be $1400. The family amount will be $2800.
Outpatient surgery will be subject to the deductible and applicable co-payments.
Laboratory and x-ray procedures will be subject to copayments and the deductible.
Prescription drug eo-pays will be as follows:
Retailr(30'day supply) Generic: — from $5 to-£9-
—■ Brand Name: from-$11 ta $19
Mail Order: (99- day a^pply-) * Generic:	from $4 to $12
Brand-Kama a from ‘$9 te- $25
Retail:(30 day supply): Generic: $10
Preferred Brand Name: $20_
Non preferred Brand Name: $30
Mail Order:(90 day supply): Generic: $20
_	__________Preferred Brand Name: $40	*
,	Non preferred Brand Name $60
The rates for 2Q01-2QQ2 school year shall remain as per current contract. fr
2000-2Q0X:
Effective October 1, 2000_ the health insurance premiums will be as follows: These rates represent 12 deductions per year,
12 Months (12 Paychecks)
Employee___________ Board
Single	$ 29.44	$166.30
Family	$164.31	$407.77
There will be no other changes in the insurance program for the 2001-2002 school year-
Effective October 1,_2002 the health insurance premiums will be as follows: These rates represent 12 deductions per year.
12 Months (12! Paychecka)
Employee Board
Single _	$ 35,00	-	. $233,.71	/ Jd
, /1	i
Family Plus One
$180.00
Family Plus Two $190.00$436.16
There will be no other changes in the insurance program for the 2002-2003 school year.

Hello Patty,
/z/sry/o/
I asked Forrest to get the correct numbers for the contract and they are as follows:
	Employee	Board	Total
Employee only (single)	$35.00	$233.71	$268.71
Employee plus one (1)	$180.00	$357.42	$537.42
Employee plus two (2) or more	$190.00	$643.00	$833,00
He also suggested a little language clean up in the x-ray/lab section: [<Laboratory and x-ray procedures will be subject to the deductible and applicable co-payments”.
This makes it read much the same as the outpatient surgery section just above it.
The only thing Forrest had a concern about was the Single/family deductible. He indicates that the cost savings was calculated on each person reaching the $400. Plus McCreary can't actually calculate an $800 split between two people. This isn’t a big hang up, but to get the full savings weTd need to delete the last sentence. Let me know what you think.
Thanks,
Dave