Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Garden Grove Unified School District and California School Employees Association (CSEA), AFL-CIO, Chapter 121 (2000)
K#: 830783
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Garden Grove Unified School District
and
California School Employees
Association, Chapter 121
ly I, 2000 - June 30, 2003
GARDEN GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
CSEA CHAPTER #121
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
GGUSD BOARD OF EDUCATION
Linda Paulsen, President
Bob Harden, Vice-President
Terry Cantrell
Lynn Hamtil
Kenneth H. Slimmer
SUPERINTENDENT
Laura Schwalm
CSEA NEGOTIATING TEAM
Janet Alls Mike Emrick Amy Francis Arnold Francis
Jim Franks Tina Franks Bill McNair Damian Noriega Richard Pohlen
Judy Teske
TABLE OF CONTENTS
.........................................1
1.2	LENGTH OF AGREEMENT.........................................1
1.3	APPLICATION OF AGREEMENT....................................1
ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION
“2J----newtSsitoh^t...............................................1
2.2	UNIT.......................................................1
2.3	EXCLUSIONS...............................................  1
ARTICLE 3 - DEFINITIONS
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.8
3.9
3.10
3.11
3.12
3.13
3.14
3.15
aSSOCiatiOM.:..........
BARGAINING UNIT MEMBER.. CLASS..................
DAY....................
DISTRICT...............
EMPLOYEE...............
EMPLOYER...............
FISCAL YEAR............
IMMEDIATE FAMILY.......
IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR...
MEETING AND NEGOTIATING SALARY RANGE...........
SALARY STEP............
SCHOOL YEAR............
TRANSFER...............
.1 1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1 1
2 2 2
2 2
.....................................2
4.2	OVERTIME ELIGIBILITY AND DISTRIBUTION........................2
4.3	COMPENSATORY TIME OFF........................................3
4.4	CALLBACK.....................................................3
4.5	MEAL AND REST PERIODS........................................3
4.6	CHANGES IN PART-TIME ASSIGNMENTS.............................3
.......................................
5.2	INTENT AND TIME LIMITS.......................................4
5.3	REPRESENTATION...............................................4
5.4	INFORMAL LEVEL...............................................4
5.5	LEVEL ONE....................................................4
5.6	LEVEL TWO....................................................4
5.7	LEVEL THREE..................................................4
5.8	LEVEL FOUR...................................................5
5.9	LEVEL FIVE - ADVISORY ARBITRATION............................5
5.10	MISCELLANEOUS................................................5
ARTICLE 6 - SAFETY CONDITIONS "61----SAFETYREdUIREMENTS...........................................5
6.2	SAFETY COMMITTEE.............................................6
6.3	REPORTING INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT OR ILLNESS.....................6
6.4	REPORTING UNSAFE CONDITIONS..................................6
6.5	EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES....................................6
6.6	NO DISCRIMINATION............................................6
6.7	APPROPRIATE DRESS FOR SAFETY.................................6
11.1	2	WORKING OUT OF CLASS......................................24
11.1	3	EMPLOYEE SUPPLIESAND MATERIALS............................24
11.1	4	EMPLOYEE PERSONAL PROPERTY................................25
11.1	5	PROFESSIONAL GROWTH PROGRAM...............................25
11.1	6	EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT......................................26
ARTICLE 12	- ASSOCIATION RIGHTS 12J	ACCESS............................................... 27
12.2	BULLETIN BOARDS/MAIL SERVICE................................27
12.3	DISTRICT FACILITIES.........................................27
12.4	BUDGET/FINANCIAL REPORT.....................................27
12.5	RELEASE TIME..............................................  27
12.6	PRINTING OF CONTRACT........................................27
12.7	MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP...................................27
12.8	CHAPTER'S USE OF CSEA.......................................27
ARTICLE 13	- DISTRICT RIGHTS
~13J DISTRICT RIGHTS.......
28
ARTICLE 14	- CONCERTED ACTIVITIES "iZi-------NO STRIKE............................................. 28
14.	2	NO LOCK-OUT.................................................28
ARTICLE 15-LAYOFF 15.1	TYPES OF LAYOFFS............................................28
15.	2	REDUCTIONS IN ASSIGNED TIME.................................28
15.	3	LAYOFF BY SENIORITY.........................................29
15.	4	30-DAY NOTICE OF LAYOFF.....................................29
15.	5	COMPUTATION OF SENIORITY....................................29
15.	6	BUMPING RIGHTS..............................................30
15.	7	VOLUNTARY DEMOTION..........................................30
15.	8	REEMPLOYMENT................................................30
15.9	RIGHTS/RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERSONS ON REEMPLOY LISTS........31
15.1	0	NOTIFICATION OF REEMPLOYMENT...............................31
ARTICLE 16	• TRANSPORTATION PROVISIONS
16.1	DEFINITIONS.................................................31
16.2	BUS BIDDING.................................................32
16.3	BUS ROUTE ASSIGNMENT........................................32
16.4	ASSIGNMENT OF OVERTIME......................................33
16.5	PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME........................................33
16.6	EXTRA WORK..................................................33
16.7	SAFETY......................................................33
ARTICLE 17	- SUBSTANCE ABUSE SCREEN/PRE-PROMOTIONAL PHYSICAL 17.1		33
17.2	Pre-Promotional Physical........................................33
ARTICLE 18	- SAVINGS PROVISION 18.1	SAVINGS PROVISION.........................................33
ARTICLE 19	- COMPLETION OF MEET AND NEGOTIATE
“m AGREEMENT AND CONCLUSION OF NEGOTIATIONS
34
- AGREEMENT
it is made and entered into this 21st day of November, ified School District (hereinafter referred to as "District”), ation, Garden Grove Chapter #121 (hereinafter referred to pursuant to Chapter 10.7, Sections 3540-3549, of the
ment shall become effective July 1, 2000, following ill remain in full force and effect through June 30, 2003. les and Provisions contained within this Agreement shall der Article 2.
RECOGNITION
itions, except those that are designated certificated, , shall be assigned to the bargaining unit. The , or supervisory employees shall be made by mutual X. Disputed cases shall be submitted to the Public solution.
ill permanent and probationary employees in the job
e, temporary, and provisional employees and those .ppendix A.
- DEFINITIONS
s Association #121, which is an affiliate of the California
se who is included in the appropriate unit as defined in s and provisions of this agreement.
similar in duties and responsibilities that the same :h position allocated to the class; substantially the same lowledge, and ability are demanded of incumbents; a used in choosing qualified appointees; and the same
>n Center is open for business.
x>l District or the Board of Education.
nit as defined in Article 2 and therefore covered by the
:hool District Board of Education.
in, daughter, grandmother, grandfather, or a grandchild iployee; and the spouse, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, tive living in the immediate household of the employee.
r having immediate jurisdiction over the employee.
1
3.11	MEETING AND NEGOTIATING: Shall mean meeting, conferring, negotiating, and discussing by the exclusive representative and the public school employer in a good faith effort to reach agreement on matters within the scope of representation.
3.12	SALARY RANGE: A series of consecutive salary steps that comprise the rates of pay for a class. A salary range normally consists of five salary steps.
3.13	SALARY STEP: A specific rate in a salary range. One of the consecutive rates that comprise a monthly or hourly salary range.
3.14	SCHOOL YEAR: The period from September through June when students are normally required to be in attendance.
3.15	TRANSFER: The reassignment of an employee without examination from one position to another position in the same class at a different school or department or to a position in a similar or related class with the same salary range.
ARTICLE 4	- HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT
4.1	WORKDAY AND WORKWEEK: The maximum number of hours of regular employment for an employee is eight hours a day and 40 hours a week. However, the Board of Education may employ persons for lesser periods of time. This Article shall not restrict the extension of the regular workday or workweek on an overtime basis when such is necessary to carry on the business of the District.
4.1.1	The length of the workday shall be designated by the District for each classified assignment.
4.1.2	The workweek for employees shall include the seven-day period beginning with the five consecutive days an employee is regularly assigned to work. The workweek will start at 12:01 a.m. on the first day of the employee's workweek and end at midnight on the last day.
4.1.3	For employees working a non-standard workweek (less than five consecutive workdays), the workweek shall start at 12:01 a.m. Sunday morning and end at midnight the following Saturday.
4.2	OVERTIME ELIGIBILITY AND DISTRIBUTION: Overtime is ordered and authorized work performed in excess of eight hours worked in one day or 40 hours worked in one workweek.
4.2.1	6th and 7th Day/4 or More Hours: An employee who works four or more hours a day shall be compensated for all work required on the sixth consecutive day of the workweek at a rate equal to one and one-half (114) times the employee's regular rate and on the seventh consecutive day of the workweek at a rate equal to two and one-half (2H) times the employee's regular rate.
4.2.2	6th and 7th DAY/Less Than 4 Hours: An employee who works less than four hours per day shall be compensated at a rate equal to one and one-half (114) times the employee's regular rate for all work required on the sixth and seventh consecutive day(s).
4.2.3	Holiday Compensation: All hours worked on holidays designated by this Agreement shall be compensated at two and one-half (214) times the regular rate of pay. (214 times = holiday pay at straight time plus 114 time for all hours worked on the holiday)
4.2.4	Overtime Distribution By Seniority: Scheduled overtime shall be distributed and rotated on a seniority basis as equally as is practical among employees in the bargaining unit within each department and class. Employees shall not be excluded from overtime assignments. This does not apply to call-backs or emergencies.
4.2.4.11f no employee volunteers for an overtime assignment, the supervisor shall assign the
2
overtime by seniority, requiring the qualified employee with the least seniority to accept the assignment.
4.3	COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Employees shall receive compensatory time off for overtime worked as noted below:
4.3.1	Instructional Support Services: A regular employee who works authorized overtime shall be paid at a rate equal to one and one-half (1 Yz) times the regular rate of pay for the overtime worked, or shall receive compensatory time off at a rate equal to one and one-half (1 Yz) times the overtime worked. The employee may request either compensatory time off or overtime pay. Reasonable effort will be made to accommodate the employee's request consistent with the needs of the District. The determination of the method of compensation (i.e., compensatory time off or overtime pay) will be made by the appropriate administrator.
4.3.2	Operational Support Services: A regular employee who works authorized overtime shall be paid at a rate equal to one and one-half (1 Yz) times the regular rate of pay for the overtime worked. Notwithstanding this provision, compensatory time off may be granted upon mutual agreement between the employee and the Department Head.
4.3.3	Compensatory Time Taken Within 22 Workdays: Compensatory time off shall be taken within 22 workdays (equivalent of one pay period) in which it has been earned. If the compensatory time off is not taken during that 22-day period, the employee will be paid for the accumulated time.
4.3.4	Change of Assignment: If an employee who has accumulated compensatory time off transfers, demotes, or promotes, he/she will be paid for the overtime or appropriate time off will be granted upon mutual agreement between the parties before the change in assignment is made.
4.4	CALL BACK: An employee who is called back to work shall be compensated at the overtime rate for all hours in a paid status which are in excess of eight hours in one day.
4.4.1	Any employee called back to work, whether after normal working hours or on a day not worked, shall be credited with not less than three hours of work at the overtime rate.
4.5	MEAL AND REST PERIODS: Employees shall be provided meal and rest periods as noted below:
4.5.1	Lunch Periods: Each bargaining unit employee working six or more consecutive hours per day shall have an unpaid, uninterrupted lunch period of not less than thirty minutes. The lunch period shall be assigned by the immediate supervisor, to be taken at or about the midpoint of each work shift.
4.5.2	Rest Periods: Employees shall be eligible for one paid 15 minute rest period for each four-hour consecutive period worked, at times approved by the immediate supervisor. Employees who work less than four hours shall be eligible for one paid 10 minute rest period, which insofar as practicable, shall be in the middle of each work period. Rest periods may not be accumulated or used to lengthen the lunch period or shorten the workday.
4.5.3	Non-Day Shift Employees: Dinner periods and rest periods for other than day shift employees shall be established, whenever possible, within the regulation of day shift employees.
4.6	CHANGES IN PART-TIME ASSIGNMENTS: A part-time employee whose assignment time is increased an average of 30 minutes or more per day for 20 consecutive days shall have his/her regular assignment adjusted upward to reflect the change in assigned time. Such changes will be effective beginning on the 21st day.
3
ARTICLE 5	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
5.1	DEFINITION OF TERMS: The following definitions shall apply to the grievance procedures contained in this Article.
5.1.1	Grievant: An individual employee in the bargaining unit or the Association who alleges a grievance.
5.1.2	Grievance: A formal written allegation by a grievant that there has been a misinterpretation, a misapplication, or a violation of the provisions of this Agreement.
5.1.3	Informal Level: An informal meeting of the grievant and the immediate supervisor to resolve a dispute or difference, before filing a formal grievance. The grievant must identify the conference as an informal level grievance.
5.1.4	Formal Level: A formal written allegation by a grievant that there has been a misinterpretation, a misapplication, or a violation of the provisions of this Agreement.
5.1.5	Day: Any day in which the District Education Center is open for business.
5.1.6	Immediate Supervisor: The supervisor having immediate jurisdiction over the employee.
5.2	INTENT AND TIME LIMITS: It is the intent of the parties to equitably resolve grievances at the lowest possible administrative level.
5.2.1	It is important that grievances be resolved as quickly as possible. The times indicated at each level should be considered as maximums. Time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of both parties.
5.2.2	A formal written grievance must be filed within 30 days of the alleged violation or infraction.
5.3	REPRESENTATION: The grievant may have the assistance of CSEA representation at any level of the grievance procedure, or may choose to represent himself/herself, provided he/she provides copies of all written formal grievances to the President of CSEA.
5.4	INFORMAL LEVEL: Before filing a formal grievance, the grievant should attempt to resolve the grievance by an informal conference with his/her immediate supervisor.
5.5	LEVEL ONE: If the grievant is not satisfied with the adjustment of the grievance at the informal level, he/she may, within ten working days following the conference, present the grievance in writing on the appropriate grievance form (See Appendix F) to his/her immediate supervisor.
5.5.1	Written response by the immediate supervisor to the grievance shall be submitted to the grievant within ten days after receiving the form.
5.6	LEVEL TWO: If the grievance is not satisfactorily adjusted by the immediate supervisor, or if the immediate supervisor fails to respond in accordance with Level One, the grievance may be submitted to the appropriate next level administrator within ten days, using the grievance form.
5.6.1	Written response by the appropriate next level administrator to the grievance shall be submitted to the grievant within ten days after receiving the form.
5.6.2	A meeting may be held within the above time limits at the written request of either the grievant or appropriate next level administrator.
5.7	LEVEL THREE: If the grievant is not satisfied with the decision at Level Two, he/she may appeal the decision to the Personnel Director on the appropriate form within ten days.
5.7.1	Written response by the Personnel Director to the grievance shall be submitted to the grievant within ten days after receiving the form.
4
5.7.2	A meeting may be held within the above time limits at the written request of either the grievant or the Personnel Director.
5.8	LEVEL FOUR: If the grievance is not satisfactorily adjusted with the Personnel Director, the grievant may, within ten days, submit the grievance on the appropriate form to the Superintendent.
5.8.1	Written response by the Superintendent to the grievance shall be submitted to the grievant within ten days after receiving the form.
5.8.2	A meeting may be held within the above time limits at the written request of either the grievant or the Superintendent.
5.9	LEVEL FIVE - ADVISORY ARBITRATION: If the grievant is not satisfied with the decision of the Superintendent, the grievant may, within ten days, request in writing to the Board of Education that the grievance be submitted to advisory arbitration.
5.9.1	The District and CSEA shall choose a mutually acceptable arbitrator within ten days of the receipt of a written request for arbitration. If no choice has been made after five days, a request will be made to the California Conciliation Service to supply a list of five people who have experience in public school arbitration. The District and CSEA shall choose a person from the list by means of elimination until only one remains.
5.9.2	Upon the completion of an investigation, the arbitrator shall report findings and recommendations in writing to the Board of Education and CSEA. The recommendations of the arbitrator shall conform to the laws of the State of California and to the terms of this Agreement.
5.9.3	After reviewing the findings and recommendations of the arbitrator at a regularly scheduled meeting, the Board of Education shall, within ten days, issue a decision which is final and binding.
5.9.4	The fees and expenses of the arbitrator and the hearing shall be borne equally by the District and CSEA. All other costs will be borne by the party incurring them.
5.10	MISCELLANEOUS: The following miscellaneous provisions shall apply to the grievance procedure contained in this Article.
5.10.1	Group Grievances: Group grievances that involve employees with different immediate supervisors may be filed at Level Two. If the grievance involves employees who have different administrators, the grievance may be submitted at level Three.
5.10.2	Bypassing Level Two: If the next level administrator of the immediate supervisor is either the Personnel Director or the Superintendent, Level Two of the grievance procedure will be eliminated.
5.10.3	Self-Representation: An employee covered by this Agreement may file a grievance directly, under the procedures of this Article, and have such grievance adjusted without intervention of CSEA as long as the adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement. The CSEA President shall be provided with any response at any level of the grievance procedure.
5.10.4	Grievance Forms: Grievance forms will be available at each site and the Office of Personnel Services (See Appendix F).
ARTICLE 6	- SAFETY CONDITIONS
6.1	SAFETY REQUIREMENTS: The District shall, within an appropriate timeline, conform to and comply with all safety requirements imposed by state or federal law or regulations adopted under state or federal law.
5
6.2	SAFETY COMMITTEE: A Safety Committee shall be formed which shall include two members appointed by dSEA. This committee, which shall be headed by a District representative, shall make recommendations to the District concerning improvements in safety conditions. The bargaining unit members of the committee shall be allowed reasonable release time to carry out their committee obligations. This committee shall meet quarterly. Report of all actions taken will be made available to the bargaining unit.
6.3	REPORTING INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENT OR ILLNESS: All employees shall report an industrial accident or illness, no matter how minor, to the employee's immediate supervisor and file the necessary report of industrial accident or illness.
6.4	REPORTING UNSAFE CONDITIONS: It is the responsibility of the employee to report to his/her immediate supervisor, in writing, any conditions which he/she believes are unsafe. An employee may respectfully refuse to use any piece of equipment if it is reasonable to assume that such use places the employee in the danger of immediate physical harm.
6.5	EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES: It is the responsibility of any employee whose job requires the use of tools, equipment, or motor vehicles, to do so in a safe, prudent, and lawful manner. Any employee involved in a chargeable vehicle accident while in the conduct of District business may be required and paid to attend four hours of defensive driver training.
6.6	NO DISCRIMINATION: No employee shall be discriminated against as a result of reporting any condition believed unsafe.
6.7	APPROPRIATE DRESS FOR SAFETY: Employees will dress appropriately for the work performed and in accord with safety standards.
ARTICLE 7	- EVALUATION PROCEDURES
7.1	WHEN EVALUATIONS ARE TO BE MADE: Each regular employee shall be evaluated by an immediate supervisor who is defined as the person who assigns, checks, and supervises the work of the employee and who is immediately responsible for the employee's work or is most closely acquainted with his/her performance. The following schedule for evaluating employees shall be followed:
7.1.1	Probationary employees - at the end of the second and fifth months of service.
7.1.2	Permanent employees - at least once each fiscal year.
7.2	EVALUATION FORMS: Performance evaluation reports shall be made on forms prescribed by the District with input from CSEA.
7.3	DISCUSSION OF EVALUATION: The immediate supervisor shall present the performance evaluation report to the employee and shall discuss it with him/her. The employee shall sign the evaluation form to indicate receipt, and he/she shall be given a signed copy.
7.4	PLACEMENT IN PERSONNEL FILE: Performance evaluation reports shall be filed in the employee's official personnel file and shall be available for review in connection with promotional examinations and disciplinary actions.
7.5	EMPLOYEE REBUTTAL: The employee may, within ten working days of receipt of the performance evaluation form, attach a rebuttal which will be included in the official personnel file.
7.6	REVISED EVALUATION AT ANY TIME: A revised evaluation may be submitted at any time during the year upon evidence of changed work habits or performance on the part of an employee.
7.7	UNSATISFACTORY EVALUATIONS: A permanent employee who receives an evaluation with an overall rating of unsatisfactory will be expected to improve his/her performance to such an extent that
6
a reevaluation within sixty days will reflect an overall rating of above unsatisfactory. Failure to make such an improvement in performance will constitute sufficient grounds for disciplinary action.
7.7.1	The employee shall have the right to protest an evaluation through the grievance procedure. If the employee's objections are sustained, the grievance authority shall order preparation of a new evaluation and removal of the grieved evaluation from the employee's file.
ARTICLE 8	- TRANSFER
8.1	VOLUNTARY TRANSFERS: A transfer may be made at the employee's request.
8.1.1	Transfer Request In Writing: Request for transfer shall be made by the employee in writing, on a District-approved form, to the Classified Personnel Office and must include:
8.1.1.1	The classification to which the employee desires to transfer.
8.1.1.2	Any qualifying factors describing the kind of position to which he/she wishes to transfer.
8.1.1.3	The reason for requesting a transfer.
8.1.2	Condition of Transfer/Probatlon: A permanent employee who transfers to a position in a class in which he/she has not previously completed a probationary period shall be considered probationary in that class.
8.1.3	No Change In Salary Rate/Beneflts: Transfer shall be made without change in salary rate, anniversary date, accumulated illness leave, and accumulated vacation credit.
8.1.4	District Consideration of Transfers: When employees have on file an official transfer request, the appointing authority must review the transfer requests of all qualified employees. The District will consider the employee's seniority, qualifications, and past performance before a selection Is made.
8.1.4.1	All transfer requests will be kept on file in the Classified Personnel Office and will be considered in filling vacancies unless the employee submits a written statement that he/she no longer wishes to be transferred.
8.1.5	Expiration of Transfer Requests: Requests for transfer will be kept active until the end of the school year, and must be submitted annually.
8.1.6	60-Day Temporary Assessment Period: An employee accepting a voluntary transfer shall serve a sixty-day temporary assessment period (TAP). If the employee fails to satisfactorily complete the TAP, he/she may be returned to his/her previous position.
8.2	ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFERS: A transfer may be made for the good of the service at the discretion of the District, provided that such action shall not be taken for punitive or preferential reasons.
8.2.1	Approval of Involuntary Transfers: All involuntary transfers shall be approved by the Personnel Director.
8.2.2	Involuntary Transfer Notice To Employee: When District transfer of an employee is pending, notice of transfer will be made in writing to the employee not less than two working days prior to the effective date, unless an emergency or unforeseen circumstances exist.
8.2.3	Meeting: Following the written notification, an employee may request a meeting with the District to discuss the transfer.
7
8.2.4	Disciplinary Transfers: Prior to a transfer that is made for disciplinary reasons, the employee and the association shall be informed in writing and the employee shall have the right to file an appeal.
8.3	VOLUNTARY DEMOTION: A permanent employee may request voluntary transfer to a class with a lower maximum salary rate (voluntary demotion). Such requests require the approval of the department heads involved and the Personnel Director.
8.3.1	An employee who has taken a voluntary transfer to a class with a lower maximum salary rate (voluntary demotion) may be restored to his/her former class or to a related lower class within 39 months, subject to the recommendation of the department head and with the approval of the Personnel Director.
8.4	TRANSFER FOR MEDICAL REASONS: When an employee becomes physically incapacitated for the performance of any of his/her duties as determined by a physical examination, the Personnel Director may transfer him/her to a vacant position in a class of the same or lower salary level which he/she has the ability to fill, or for which he/she may be expected to acquire the necessary ability after a reasonable time. The employee may request a meeting with the District to discuss the transfer.
8.4.1	In case of transfer to a lower level, the employee shall receive the same salary he/she is receiving in his/her former class, but his/her salary shall not exceed the maximum salary of the class to which he/she is transferred. He/She shall retain his/her anniversary date.
ARTICLE 9	- LEAVES
9.1	GENERAL PROVISIONS: The appointing authority may grant leaves of absence to employees when it is in the best interest of the welfare of the appointing authority and the welfare of the individual employee.
9.1.1	Waqes/Beneflts: Except as otherwise provided, time spent on leaves of absence with pay shall count toward salary step advancement and toward employee fringe benefit and seniority accrual. Time spent on leave of absence without pay shall not count toward salary step advancement, employee fringe benefit accrual, and seniority accrual, and shall not be considered a part of the probation period.
9.1.2	During Probationary Period: Unless otherwise specified, a leave of absence shall not be granted to an employee during his/her first six months of employment with the district. A leave of absence with pay granted to a probationary employee shall affect the continuity of service required for permanency if the absence exceeds ten working days.
9.1.3	Assignment Upon Return: An employee will be assigned to the same position upon return to service following a leave of absence of not more than six months. An employee will be assigned to a position in the same class upon return to service following a leave of absence of more than six months. If the class has been abolished during the employee's absence, the employee shall be laid off for lack of work and placed on the reemployment list for the class, effective the date of termination of leave. In lieu of layoff, an employee may return to a vacant position in a class at the same or lower salary level, provided the employee meets the qualifications for that class.
9.1.4	Cancellation: The Board of Education may, for good cause, cancel any leave of absence by giving the absent employee due notification.
9.1.5	Earlier Return: An employee may make a written request to the Personnel Director to return to work prior to the expiration date of the leave. The Personnel Director may approve or reject such request.
9.1.6	Failure To Return: Failure to report for duty within five working days after a leave expires or has been canceled shall be considered abandonment of the position, and the employee may be terminated by the Board of Education.
8
9.1.7	Other Employment: An employee while on leave of absence may not accept other gainful employment with another employer, except ordered military service, without express prior approval of the Board of Education.
9.1.8	Interruption: Vacation is the only leave which may be interrupted by another type of leave.
9.2	VACATION: Every employee shall earn vacation on the basis of the schedule of vacation days found in Appendix B. Vacation days shall be credited for each month in which the employee is in paid status for one-half (14) or more of the working days of a calendar month.
9.2.1	Accumulation: Vacation shall be accumulated in fractions of hours and shall be rounded off to the nearest hour at the end of the fiscal year or when the employee leaves the classified service.
9.2.2	Eligibility: Computation of vacation starts with the fiscal year. Eligibility to take vacation will commence on the first day of the month following completion of six months or 130 days of paid service in regular assignments. No payment for accumulated vacation shall be made to an employee who terminates prior to attaining eligibility to take vacation.
9.2.3	Scheduling: Earned vacation is to be taken during the fiscal year first following the year in which credited, except as provided in 9.2.5 below. Vacation schedules shall be approved by the department head. Effort shall be made to enable vacation to be taken at time convenient to the employee consistent with the needs of the District and the workload of the department. Preference for vacation periods shall be given the most senior employee in the event of conflict in vacation scheduling between employees.
9.2.4	Unearned Vacation: Vacation may be granted by the employee's department head even though not earned at the time the vacation is taken. Unearned vacation that has been granted shall be deducted from an employee's final salary warrant if employment terminates prior to earning such vacation.
9.2.5	Regulred Vacation Periods: School session, ten months, and ten and one-half (1014) month employees shall take vacation during the Spring and Winter school recesses.
9.2.6	Carry-Over: Employees are expected to take their full earned vacation each year. Employees may accumulate earned vacation to a maximum of two years, contingent upon agreement with the department head. The District shall schedule any earned vacation in excess of two years.
9.2.7	Rate of Pay: The rate at which vacation is paid shall be the employee's current rate. No deduction shall be made from the vacation credit of any employee for holidays occurring during the assigned vacation period of the employee. Upon separation from service, an employee shall be paid for accumulated vacation at the employee's current rate of pay.
9.2.8	Minimum Usage: Vacation shall not be granted for periods of less than four hours unless the employee's regular assignment is for less than four hours per day.
9.2.9	Interruption: An employee who commences a prescribed vacation period and subsequently becomes ill or bereaved before the vacation period has been completed may request termination of vacation and placement on sick (or bereavement) leave provided:
9.2.9.1	The illness (or bereavement) leave is for three consecutive days or more.
9.2.9.2	The illness (or bereavement) is such that had the employee been working, he/she would have been absent on sick or bereavement leave.
9.2.9.3	The illness (or bereavement) falls within the work year of the employee.
9
9.2.9.4	The illness (or bereavement) is substantiated by the employee.
9.2.10	Statement of Accrual: In October of each year employees shall be given a statement showing both an earned vacation figure and a projected (through end of the fiscal year) vacation figure.
9.3	PAID SICK LEAVE; Sick leave is the authorized absence of the employee because of illness or injury or exposure to contagious disease.
9.3.1	Accrual: Sick leave with pay shall be earned by regular employees based on a 40-hour week of service from the anniversary date of employment. Sick leave accrued, but not used, shall carry over from one fiscal year to another with no limit of accumulation.
9.3.2	Rate of Accrual: Full-time employees shall accrue sick leave on the basis of one day for each month of continuous full-time service. To qualify for a month of service, the employee must be compensated for one-half (%) or more of the working days of a calendar month.
9.3.3	Proration of Accrual: A part-time employee shall accrue sick leave on a proportionate basis as his/her workweek relates to forty hours.
9.3.4	Credit/Adjustment: At the beginning of each fiscal year, the sick leave "bank" of the employee shall be increased by the number of days of paid sick leave which he/she would normally earn in the ensuing fiscal year. An employee's sick leave "bank" shall be adjusted if a change of assignment alters the amount of sick leave earnable. No sick leave shall be allowed while an employee is on layoff or leave of absence without pay. Employees who fail to return to service following illness must refund all amounts paid for unearned sick leave.
9.3.5	Probationary Employees: New probationary employees shall be granted one day of sick leave for each month of employment for the first six months.
9.3.6	Rate of Pay: Pay for any day of sick leave shall be the same pay the employee would have received if he/she had worked that day.
9.3.7	Notification of Absence: In order to receive compensation while absent on sick leave, the employee shall notify the District in accordance with procedures promulgated by the employee's department head or by the District. If no procedure is otherwise established, the employee shall notify his/her supervisor within the first working hour of the day of absence, unless conditions make notification impossible. The burden of proof of impossible conditions shall be upon the employee.
9.3.8	Notification of Return: The employee shall notify his/her supervisor at least one day prior to his/her expected return to work in order that any substitute employee may be terminated. If such notification is not given and both the employee and substitute report, the substitute is entitled to the assignment and the employee shall not receive pay for that day.
9.3.9	Medical Release: To be eligible to return to work following paid or unpaid sick leave, a written statement from the employee's personal physician may be required. This statement shall be presented to the Office of Personnel Services. The physician's statement will contain the scheduled release date and will define any restrictions or limitations. This statement is required:
9.3.9.1	Of any employee whose absence extends beyond ten working days. The statement shall give the diagnosis and prescribed treatment and an estimate of the expected duration of the illness.
9.3.9.2	Upon return from absence of ten working days or more due to illness. The approval to return to work must reach the Office of Personnel Services one working day prior to the employee's intended return.
9.3.9.3	Upon return from surgery or from illness requiring hospitalization, regardless of
10
the duration of absence.
9.3.9.4	Of employees using oasts or orthopedic devices at work.
9.3.9.5	Upon request of the department head when the employee's illness is of such a nature that the normal work assignment of the employee may impair recuperation or may present a reasonable risk of continued aggravation to the injury or cause of illness.
9.3.10	Holiday Exclusion: If paid sick leave occurs on the working day immediately before and/or after a paid holiday, the holiday is not charged against sick leave.
9.3.11	Layoff/Unpald Leave Exclusions: No sick leave shall be allowed while an employee is on layoff or leave of absence without pay.
9.3.12	Extended Sick Leave Benefits: Employees who have exhausted all accrued and advanced sick leave shall receive extended sick leave benefits subject to the following conditions:
9.3.12.1	Extended sick leave shall be paid at 50% of the basic salary rate.
9.3.12.2	Extended benefits shall be limited to 100 working days in each fiscal year. At the beginning of a fiscal year, 100 workdays shall be credited to the employee's account, whether or not the employee is currently drawing benefits subject to this rule.
9.3.12.3	Sick leave days at full pay in the excess of the amount earned in the current year shall be included in the 100 working days.
9.3.12.4	Other compensable leave, such as vacation, industrial illness leave, holidays, etc., shall not be counted toward the 100 workdays.
9.3.13	No Sick Leave Payoff: At the time of resignation or termination of employment, no payment or time off will be allowed for unused accumulated sick leave.
9.3.14	Granting of Additional Unpaid Leave: After exhaustion of all paid leave, a permanent employee may be granted additional leave for six months upon request and with the approval of the Board of Education. The additional leave may be extended for two additional six month periods.
9.3.14.1	An employee on unpaid leave shall not again become eligible for paid leave, because of the commencement of a new fiscal year, until he/she has rendered service.
9.3.15	Exhaustion of All Leaves: If, at the conclusion of all paid or unpaid leave, the employee is still unable to assume the duties of his/her position, he/she will be placed on a reemployment list for a period of 39 months in the same manner as if he/she were laid off for lack of work or lack of funds.
9.3.16	Transfer From Another District: Any new employee who has accumulated sick leave from another public school district in California may transfer the accumulated sick leave if the employee has been with the former district for one year or more and the break in service was less than one year.
9.3.17	Health Insurance Coverage During Leave: Employees of the District are entitled to a prepaid six months continuation of fringe benefits In medical, dental, vision care, and life insurance plans while in a Board-approved medical or maternity leave status. The continuation of such fringe benefits shall begin on the last day worked and will terminate at the conclusion of the sixth calendar month or after exhaustion of all full pay leave, whichever is longer. Such benefits shall be in effect during the interim period between the expiration of the above described 100 days and the expiration of the six month period of extended District
11
benefit coverage, unless there is a personnel action terminating the employee prior to the six months limitation of coverage.
9.4	PERSONAL NECESSITY LEAVE: In the event of a personal necessity, each employee shall be granted paid leave of absence to attend to events which are serious in nature, involving circumstances the employee cannot reasonably be expected to disregard, and require the attention of the employee during his/her assigned hours of work, subject to the following conditions.
9.4.1	The employee shall notify his/her supervisor at least seventy-two hours in advance of taking such leave, unless an emergency makes such notice impossible.
9.4.2	Any days used as personal necessity leave shall be deducted from the employee's sick leave balance.
9.4.3	The total number of days allowed in any one fiscal year shall not exceed seven regular workdays.
9.4.4	The employee shall use only that amount of time necessary to adequately alleviate the emergency.
9.4.5	Personal necessity leave shall not be used for recreational purposes.
9.5	FAMILY ILLNESS LEAVE: Three (3) days of leave per year without loss of salary or sick leave shall be allowed to any employee for an illness of a member of the employee's immediate family which is of a serious nature. An illness of a serious nature shall be an illness which an employee cannot reasonably be expected to disregard and which requires the attention of the employee during his/her assigned hours of service.
9.5.1	Three (3) days of accrued sick leave per year shall be allowed to any employee for the purpose of caring for an ill member of the employee's immediate family. This leave, combined with the leave set forth in Section 9.5 above shall be provided in conformance with the provisions of California Labor Code section 233
9.6	OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENT/INJURY/ILLNESS LEAVE: A permanent employee who is absent from duty for causes which have been determined by the District as constituting an occupational accident, injury, or illness shall be entitled to occupational accident, injury, or illness leave for up to 60 days in any one fiscal year. An employee is entitled to a maximum of 60 days leave per accident, injury, or illness. Such leave is non-accumulative and may be taken only during those periods when the employee would normally be in a paid status.
9.6.1	Reporting Biweekly: An employee who is absent from work on account of an occupational accident, injury, or illness shall contact the District Insurance Office biweekly (every two weeks) to report his/her progress towards returning to work.
9.6.2	Reduction Of Leave: Occupational accident, injury, or illness leave shall commence on the first day of the absence and shall be reduced by one day for each day of absence authorized by the medical report, regardless of any compensation award. When such leave overlaps into the following fiscal year, the employee shall be entitled to only the amount of unused leave remaining at the end of the fiscal year in which the accident, injury, or illness occurred.
9.6.3	Payment For Wages Lost: Payment for wages lost as a result of absence due to occupational accident, injury, or illness, when added to an award granted the employee under the California Workers, Compensation and Insurance Laws, shall not exceed the regular salary of the employee. In the case of employees paid on an hourly basis, the normal wages for the day shall be based on the assigned work time of the employee.
9.6.4	Filing Initial Report: Before salary payment will be made to an employee who is absent because of an occupational accident, injury, or illness, the proper report of the accident, injury, or illness must be completed on the form required by the Procedures Manual for Workers' Compensation and filed with the District Workers' Compensation Office.
12
9.6.5	Travel Limitations: Any employee receiving benefits under these provisions shall, during the period of the leave, remain within the State of California unless out-of-state travel is authorized by the Board of Education.
9.6.6	Exhaustion of Occupational Leave: If an employee remains disabled after entitlement to occupational accident, injury, or illness leave is exhausted, he/she shall then be placed on regular sick leave or other applicable leave. If, when an employee goes on regular sick leave or other type of leave, he/she is receiving a compensation award, he/she shall be entitled to use only as much of such other leave benefits as will, when added to the award, provide for a normal full day's wage or salary.
9.6.7	Exhaustion of All Paid Leaves: If the employee is no longer receiving a Workers' Compensation award, but is still unable to return to work, he/she shall then be placed on regular sick leave or other available leaves. After the expiration of all paid leave, an employee who is unable to return to work may be granted additional leave without pay for six months. Such leave may be extended for two additional six-month periods at the discretion of the Board of Education.
9.6.8	Physician's Statement: An employee who has been absent from work under the provisions of this section must present a statement from a licensed physician to the Workers’ Compensation Office prior to returning to work. The statement will contain the date the employee is released to return to work and will define any restrictions or limitations.
9.6.9	Seniority Credit: A period of leave under this provision, either paid or unpaid, shall not be considered to be a break in service for the employee; and the employee, while on such leave, shall continue to receive seniority credit.
9.6.10	Medical Reemployment List: When all available leaves of absence, paid or unpaid, have been exhausted, and if the employee is not medically able to assume the duties of his/her position, he/she shall, if not placed in another position, be placed on a reemployment list for a period of 39 months. When available during the 39-month period, he/she shall be employed in a vacant position in the class of his/her previous assignment over all available candidates, except for a reemployment list established in accordance with appropriate seniority requirements. If an employee's former class has ceased to exist during his/her absence, the employee shall be assigned to a vacant position in a comparable class for which qualified. If an employee who has been placed on such a reemployment list has been released to return to duty and fails to accept a position in his/her class, he/she shall be subject to dismissal.
9.7	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE: Employees shall be allowed regular pay for not more than three working days when absent on account of the death of any member of the immediate family. Such leave may be extended to a maximum of five days when travel beyond a 300-mile radius is necessary in connection with the bereavement.
9.8	JURY DUTY LEAVE: Leave of absence for jury service shall be granted to any employee in paid status, who has been officially summoned to jury duty in local, State, or Federal Court. Leave shall be granted for the period of the jury service.
9.8.1	Pay: The employee shall receive full pay while on leave, provided that the jury service fee for such leave, with the exception of travel allowances, is assigned to the District. The jury service fee for such leave, along with the subpoena or court certification, must be filed with the District.
9.8.2	Request For Leave: Request for jury service leave should be made by presenting the official court summons to jury service to the Office of Personnel Services.
9.8.3	Availability For Work: An employee who has received a leave of absence under this provision shall make himself/herself available for work during the hours when his/her presence is not required in court. However, if an employee's work shift is other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., the employee shall have the right to be excused from
13
his/her assignment for a period of time equal to his/her required court duty.
9.9	WITNESS LEAVE: Leave of absence to serve as a witness in a court case shall be granted an employee when he/she has been served a subpoena to appear as a witness, not as the litigant, in the case. The length of the leave granted shall be for the number of days in attendance in court as certified by the clerk or other authorized officer of the court.
9.9.1	Pay: The employee shall receive full pay while on leave, provided that the witness fee for such leave, with the exception of travel allowances, is assigned to the District. The witness fee for such leave, along with the subpoena or court certification, must be filed with the District.
9.9.2	Request For Leave: Request for leave of absence to serve as a witness should be made by presenting the official court summons to the Office of Personnel Services.
9.9.3	Availability For Work: An employee who has received a leave of absence under this provision shall make himself/herself available for work during the hours when his/her presence is not required in court. However, if an employee's work shift is other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., the employee shall have the right to be excused from his/her assignment for a period of time equal to his/her required court duty.
9.10	PREGNANCY DISABILITY/MATERNITY LEAVE: Absences of female employees for reasons related to pregnancy and convalescence following childbirth shall be treated as sick leave and are subject to the provisions of Article 9.3.
9.10.1	Pregnancy Disability Leave - Employees are entitled to use accumulated sick leave and are subject to the provisions of Article 9.3 for disabilities caused or contributed to by pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, or recovery thereof. Such leave shall not be used for childcare, but shall be limited to those disabilities as set forth above. The length of such disability leave, including the date upon which the leave shall commence and the date on which the duties are resumed, shall be determined by the employee’s physician.
9.10.2	Maternity Leave - Female employees who desire a leave of absence for the purpose of remaining at home to care for a newborn infant are subject to the provisions of Article 9.15 (unpaid leave) or 9.20 (family care leave).
9.11	MILITARY LEAVE: Employees, under official orders, who are called to duty or who volunteer in the armed services of the United States shall be granted military leave of absence for the period of such required service or enlistment.
9.11.1	Pay: Employees who have served one year or more in the District shall be granted such leave with up to the first 30 calendar days at full pay. Paid days shall not exceed 30 days in one fiscal year. Employees who have not served one year in the District shall be granted leave without pay.
9.11.2	Effect On Benefits: The employee’s advancement on the salary schedule shall not be interrupted by military leave; he/she shall continue to accrue seniority for purposes of layoff due to lack of work, lack of funds, or abolishment of position, and for longevity vacation. However, no other fringe benefits such as sick leave or vacation shall accrue during such absence.
9.11.3	Military Reserves: Employees who are members of reserve corps, and who must temporarily be absent due to active military training, shall be granted temporary military leave of absence not to exceed 180 calendar days.
9.11.3.1	Employees who have been in the service of the District for one year or more shall be granted such leave, with the first 30 calendar days at full pay; and they shall not suffer loss of benefits of any kind nor shall they lose any rights granted other employees due to the absence. Employees who have not been in the service of the District for one year shall be granted leave without pay.
14
9.11.3.2	An employee on military leave shall be reinstated in his/her regular position or a position in the same classification upon honorable discharge from the service.
9.11.3.3	An official document stating the date the employee must report for duty shall be submitted to the Office of Personnel Services prior to the granting of a leave of absence under this provision.
9.12	VISTA LEAVE: Employees who volunteer to serve with VISTA may be granted leave of absence without pay for a maximum of two years. An employee on VISTA leave shall be reinstated in his/her regular position or a position in the same class upon conclusion of the leave.
9.13	STUDY LEAVE: Employees who have completed seven consecutive years of service in regular status with the District shall be eligible to apply for a leave of absence for study purposes. The granting of such leave shall be entirely discretionary with the appointing authority. When a study leave has been authorized and taken, an additional seven years of service, after return to duty from the last leave, must be completed before another study leave may be granted.
9.13.1	Period of Leave: Study leave can be for any period of time not to exceed one year and may be taken in any time increments as approved by the Board of Education, but must be completed within three years after the initial part of the leave was commenced. If the leave is not continuous, the service performed between the leave intervals shall be credited towards future study leave eligibility. Any leave granted and taken under this provision shall not constitute a break in service for any purpose, but the leave time shall not count toward eligibility for a future study leave.
9.13.2	Application: To secure a study leave, the employee must file an application with the Board of Education and must outline:
9.13.2.1	His/her work history with the District (e.g. positions held and length of service in each).
9.13.2.2	The length of leave requested and the time period in which the leave will be completed if granted.
9.13.2.3	The purpose for which the leave is requested. The application must include the complete course of study to be pursued, institution giving the course, costs involved, degree or credits to be granted, and other pertinent data.
9.13.2.4	Amount of compensation requested while on leave.
9.13.2.5	Service, if any, to be performed by the employee for the District during the leave.
9.13.2.6	The benefits to be derived by the District by granting the leave.
9.13.2.7	Willingness of the employee to provide a bond to the District as required by law.
9.13.2.8	Willingness to provide the District evidence of satisfactory study progress at agreed intervals during leave. Failure to provide such evidence or to make satisfactory progress may, at the option of the District, result in immediate cancellation of the leave.
9.13.2.9	Agreement by the employee to report any employment during the leave to the Office of Personnel Services who shall determine whether conflict exists with the purpose of the leave.
9.13.3	Pay: If a leave is granted under this provision, the employee will be paid, as a minimum, the difference between what his/her salary or wage would have been had he/she not been on leave and the salary paid the substitute employee. In lieu of the minimum, the Board and employee may agree, in writing, to greater compensation. If the Board approves
15
compensation greater that the minimum, it shall be not less than one-half f/z) of the employee's formal rate of compensation and not more than full compensation.
9.14	RETRAINING LEAVE: In the event that the Board of Education contemplates the abolition of positions in the classified service and creation of new positions because of automation, technological improvements, or for any other reason, it may provide for retraining of displaced employees in accordance with this provision.
9.14.1	Eligibility: To be eligible for retraining leave, an employee must:
9.14.1.1	Have served at least three years in the District.
9.14.1.2	Be serving in a position which the District contemplates abolishing or show that the retraining will clearly benefit the District.
9.14.1.3	Indicate a willingness to undergo the prescribed training program.
9.14.1.4	Indicate a willingness to serve the District for at least two years following successful completion of the retraining program.
9.14.2	Prescribing Training: The Board of Education shall prescribe the retraining program and may provide the program internally or designate the institution or place where the program is to be given.
9.14.3	Pay and Benefits: The employee shall be considered permanent for all purposes during the period of the retraining program and shall receive normal compensation and benefits. The Board may prescribe duties, if any, to be performed by the employee on behalf of the District during retraining leave.
9.14.4	Expenses: The Board shall provide for reasonable expenses necessary for the prescribed retraining, but may recover costs from the employee if the employee fails to complete the prescribed retraining program.
9.14.5	Other Purposes: The Board may establish retraining programs for other purposes and may grant leaves of absence for retraining in the same manner as for study leaves of absence, except that the three years service requirement shall prevail.
9.15	UNPAID LEAVE: Leave of absence without pay may be granted to permanent employees by the Board of Education upon the written request of the employee and the approval of the Superintendent or his designated representative subject to the following restrictions:
9.15.1	Second Leave: An employee who has been granted a leave for 30 days or more shall complete one year of service before a second leave will be granted, except as otherwise provided.
9.15.2	Length: Leave of absence shall not be granted for more than 12 consecutive calendar months except as otherwise provided.
9.15.3	Less Than Two Weeks: Personal leave without pay may be granted to an employee by the employee's immediate supervisor for a period not to exceed two weeks.
9.16	ABSENCE FOR EXAMINATION: Employees shall be permitted to be absent from duty during working hours in order to take any District examination for which they are qualified without deduction of pay or other penalty, provided the immediate supervisor is given prior notice.
9.17	ABSENCE FOR IN-SERVICE TRAINING: Permission to attend in-service activities related to the employee's assignment which would benefit the District shall be granted without loss of pay when approved by the supervisor.
9.17.1	Necessary expenses will be paid by the District when prior approval of the Board of Education
16
has been received.
9.17.2	Payment will not be made for expenses incurred in connection with obtaining licenses or certificates required as a condition of employment.
9.18	ABSENCE TO SERVE IN EXEMPT/TEMPORARY/LIMITED POSITION: Any permanent employee who accepts an assignment within the District to an exempt, temporary, or limited term position shall, during such assignment, be considered (for status purposes) as serving in his/her regular position; and such assignment shall not be considered separation from service. The employee may, with the approval of the appointing authority, voluntarily return to his/her position or a position in the class of his/her permanent status prior to the completion of service in an exempt, temporary, or limited term position.
9.19	HOLIDAYS: The District agrees to supply employees with the holidays listed in Appendix C for the term of this Agreement. The date of each holiday is designated for employees who regularly work: (a) Monday through Friday; (b) Sunday through Thursday; (c) Tuesday through Saturday.
9.19.1	Eligibility: All employees will be entitled to payment for authorized holidays falling on days normally worked, provided that they were in a paid status during any portion of their normally scheduled workday immediately preceding or succeeding the holiday.
9.19.2	Pay: The rate of pay shall be that which the employee received the day immediately preceding the holiday.
9.19.3	Recess Periods: Regular employees who are not normally assigned to duty during the spring and winter school recesses shall be paid for any holidays accruing during those periods, provided they were in a paid status during any portion of the working day of their normal assignment immediately preceding or succeeding the holiday.
9.19.4	Non-Student Day: Any non-student day shall be treated as a regular workday for classified employees.
9.19.4.1	On any school day during which students would otherwise have been in attendance but are not for emergency reasons, employees shall receive regular pay whether or not they are required to report for duty.
9.20	FAMILY CARE LEAVE: All eligible employees are entitled to a family care leave for a total of up to 12 work weeks (60 work days) in any school year as set forth in state (California Family Rights Act) and federal (Family and Medical Leave Act) statutes for the following reasons: For the care of the employee's son/daughter (birth/adoption/foster care); For the care of the employee's spouse, son/daughter, or parent who has a serious health condition; For a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform the job duties.
9.20.1	Definitions: (applicable to this provision)
9.20.1.1	Eligible employee: Must have worked for the district for one full year, including at least 1250 hours, which includes paid leave and/or family care leave, during the previous school year. Six-hour per day employees having one (1) or more years of six-hour per day service meet the 1250-hour requirement.
9.20.1.2	Spouse: Legal husband or wife of the employee.
9.20.1.3	Son or Daughter: Biological, adopted, foster, step child, legal ward, or a child of a person standing in loco parentis, who is under 18 years of age, or 18 years of age/older and incapable of self care because of mental/physical disability.
9.20.1.4	Parent: Biological parent of an employee or an individual who acted in loco parentis to the employee when the employee was under 18 years of age.
9.20.1.5	Serious Health Condition: An illness, injury, impairment or physical or mental
17
condition that involves inpatient care in a hospital, hospice or residential medical care facility; or continuing treatment by a health care provider.
9.20.2	Procedure: The leave request shall be submitted to the district not less than 30 calendar days prior to the commencement of the leave, when possible. Medical certification for serious health-related leaves shall state:
1.	The date on which the serious health condition began.
2.	The probably duration of the condition.
3.	The appropriate medical facts regarding the condition, including the need for the leave.
9.20.3	Benefits Continuation: The District will maintain all current medical, dental, vision, and life insurance benefits. If the employee fails to return to work, the District may recover its share of the insurance premiums paid during the period of unpaid leave unless the failure to return is caused by a serious health condition of the employee or other circumstances beyond the employee's control.
9.20.4	Assignment Upon Return: Employee shall be entitled to return to the same location and position as before the family care leave in accord with Section 9.1.3.
9.20.5	Special Provisions:
9.20.5.1	Concurrent Use Of Paid Leave: When an employee is on a family care leave due to the serious health condition of the employee's spouse, son, daughter, or parent, he/she shall be paid full salary for the period of time equal to the balance of his/her family illness leave, accumulated sick leave, and/or vacation. When an employee is on a family care leave due to the birth/adoption/foster care of the employee's son/daughter, he/she shall be paid full salary for that period of time equal to the balance of his/her family illness, personal necessity, and/or vacation leaves.
9.20.5.2	Pregnancy/Dlsability Leave: At the conclusion of a pregnancy/disability leave, an employee may elect to take family care leave.
9.20.5.3	Both Parents Taking Family Care Leave: When spouses are both employed by the District, the family care leave is limited to an aggregate of 12 work weeks if such leave is taken for the birth/ adoption/foster care of a son or daughter.
9.20.5.4	Unpaid Leaves: Unpaid leave taken in accord with Family and Medical Leave shall supersede provisions of Section 9.15.1.
9.20.5.5	PERS Service Credit: If and when legislation and PERS Regulations permit, employees may purchase PERS retirement service credit for the period of unpaid Family and Medical Leave.
ARTICLE 10	- HEALTH AND WELFARE BENEFITS
The District and the Unit are committed to maintaining a quality health and welfare benefits program for all employees. The parlies agree to a good faith effort and commitment to maintain a program which is comprehensive and cost-effective.
10.1	MEDICAL PLANS:
10.1.1	The District shall provide employees who work 20 or more hours per week and eligible dependents with a medical services insurance plan. The employee shall have a choice from among no less than three plans (Fee for Service, Exclusive Provider Organization, Health Maintenance Organization) provided by the District. Plans will provide benefits as outlined in the following schedule to be administered as set forth in the Summary Plan Descriptions.
18
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS Medical Plans
A. Fee for Service
1. Plan Maximum	$1,000,000 ($1,250,000*) lifetime per plan member with automatic restoration of up to $1000 per calendar year
2.	Plan Deductible 3.	Plan Co-Pays a.	Doctor Visits b.	Drugs -	Brand Name (- Non-Preferred Brand Name (- Preferred Brand Name -	Generic 4.	Plan Co-lnsurance a.	Preferred Provider(PPO) b.	Non-PPO Provider 5.	Plan Co-lnsurance Maximum 6.	Benefits Subject to Inside Limits a. Accident:	$250 per non-PPO inpatient hospital admission $10 per visit ($20 per visit*) $8 (no exceptions) $20*) $8*) $3 80%/20% 70%/30% $4000 per calendar year per enrollee 100% of first $500
$500 per case b.	Inpatient Mental c.	Outpatient Mental @ 50% d.	Routine Preventative Procedures- (adults only) e. Hospice Care	60 days per calendar year Up to 50 visits per year $200 per calendar year 60-day maximum
B. Health Maintenance Organization (HMO)ZExclusive Provider Organization (EPO)
1.	Hospital Care - Medical/Surgical 2.	Outpatient Care - Medical/Surgical 3.	Plan Co-Pays a.	Doctor Visits b.	Emergency Room Treatment c.	Drugs - Brand Name (- Non-Preferred Brand Name (- Preferred Brand Name	100% 100% $10 per visit ($20 per visit*) $50 per visit EPO - $8 EPO - $20*) EPO - $8*) HMO - as per plan contracts
- Generic	EPO - $3 HMO - as per plan contracts (‘Effective date 10/01/01)
10.1.2	The District shall provide a medical services insurance plan for retiring employees to age 65 and for disabled employees, age 50 or older. The retiring or disabled employee shall have a choice from the plans provided by the District. The retiring employee must have served at least ten consecutive years immediately preceding retirement, and reached age 55 when service to the District terminated. The disabled employee must have served 15 consecutive years in the District. A District-approved leave shall not constitute a break in service for the purpose of eligibility for this benefit. Retirement is defined as resignation from District employment with a monthly retirement allowance from the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS).
19
10.1.3	The District shall provide medical insurance for the spouse of employees who qualify for the provisions in 10.1.2.
10.1.3.1	Other eligible dependents of employees who qualify for the provisions in 10.1.2 may continue membership in the District health plan at the GGUSD group rate, provided that they arrange to pay the necessary premium directly to the district.
10.1.4	Pre-authorization is required in the fee-for-service medical plan for outpatient services as indicated in the Summary Plan Description.
10.1.5	The prescription drug card within the fee-for-service plan has a limitation of a 30-day supply of drugs at any one time, except that a 90-day supply may be obtained through a mail-order pharmacy when deemed necessary by a medical doctor.
10.1.6	The District will provide employees access to an 800 number for medical questions.
10.1.7	The medical and dental fee-for-service plans will include a third party recovery clause for all employees and a pre-existing condition clause in the medical plan for new hires.
10.2	DENTAL PLANS:
10.2.1	The District shall provide employees who work 20 or more hours per week and eligible dependents with a dental services insurance plan. (Non-permanent employees’ coverage shall commence on January 1,2001.) The employee shall have a choice from between two plans (Fee for Service and Pre-Paid) provided by the District. The plans will provide benefits as outlined in the following schedule to be administered as set forth in the Summary Plan Descriptions.
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS Dental Plans
A.	Fee-for-Service Dental 1.	Dental a. Plan Maximum b. Plan Deductible c. Co-lnsurance 2.	Orthodontia a. Plan Maximum Payment up to: Payment up to: b. Co-lnsurance	$1500 per calendar year $25 per calendar year 90%/10% $700 per calendar year $2800 lifetime 50%/50%
B.	Pre-Paid Dental 1.	Dental a.	Preventative Procedures Co-Pay b.	Restorative Dentistry Co-Pay c.	Crowns/Bridges Co-Pay (gold excluded) 2.	Orthodontia (banding only) a.	Co-Payment b.	Co-payment	-0- -0- -0- $1500 up to age 23 $2000 age 23 and above
10.3	VISION PLAN:
10.3.1	The District shall provide employees who work 20 or more hours per week and eligible dependents with a vision insurance plan. (Non-permanent employees’ coverage shall
20
commence on January 1, 2001.) The plan shall be special "Plan B" of California Vision Services, or its equivalent, except that tinted or photo-chromatic lenses shall be covered by the plan. The plan will provide as outlined in the following schedule, to be administered as set forth in the Summary Plan Description.
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS Vision Plan
A.	Frequency of Services 1. Examinations 2. Lens/Contacts 3. Frames	12 months 12 months 24 months
B.	Deductible 1.	Examinations/Lens/Frames 2.	Cosmetic Contacts	$10 $50
C.	Special Provisions 1.	Cosmetic Contacts 2.	Tints 3.	Non-Panel Doctor Reimbursement	
10.4	LIFE INSURANCE:
10.4.1	The District shall provide all eligible employees with a $50,000 term life insurance policy, to include a provision for dependent life coverage and an age reduction schedule complying with Age Discrimination Act regulations.
10.5	LIMITATION OF BENEFITS:
10.5.1	All health and welfare benefits shall be maintained and premium increases shall be paid by the District for the duration of this contract.
10.5.2	In order to receive the medical, dental, and vision benefits package described in Sections 10.1.1,10.2.1, and 10.3.1, all eligible employees enrolled in the group health program shall make a tenthly payroll deduction contribution based upon the following schedule:
Employee - $30
Employee with one dependent - $70
Employee with two/more dependents - $95
1
10.5.3	An employee who is eligible to receive the medical benefits described in Sections 10.1.2 and
10.1.3 shall make a yearly contribution based on the following schedule:
Employee - $240
Employee and spouse - $560
10.6 DURATION OF BENEFITS:
10.6.1	The benefits provided In this Article shall remain in effect during the term of this Agreement.
10.6.2	The Unit shall be consulted before any change in carriers or administrators of the health and welfare benefits plan is made.
10.6.3	Employees who are absent on account of leaves covered in Article 9, Sections 9.3, 9.6, and 9.10 of this agreement, and who have exhausted their accumulated sick leave, shall continue 1 to receive full health and welfare benefits paid by the District for six months from the first day of the month following the last day worked, or until exhaustion of all full pay leave, whichever is longer.	1
10.6.4	Employees on District-approved leaves of absence without pay shall be given the option of converting to a health and welfare benefit plan for the period of the leave, at the employee's expense.
10.6.5	An employee who is receiving benefits and is expected to return to work at the beginning of the next school year, will have continuous coverage until October 1, unless the employee subsequently gives notice of intent to terminate, in which case coverage ends on the first day of the month following such notice.
>.7 MISCELLANEOUS:
10.7.1	Each employee in the bargaining unit shall receive from the District a full explanation of all health and welfare benefits - including carriers, coverage, and other pertinent information.
10.7.2	Examinations for tuberculosis will be required every four years. The examination may be either an x-ray or approved intra-dermal tuberculin skin test. The District shall arrange and pay for these tests.
10.7.3	Employees will be provided the opportunity annually to change health plans during a 30-day open enrollment period. (September 1 - September 30)
10.7.4	Employees will be provided the opportunity to terminate coverage for themselves, or any eligible family member, the first of the month following the submission of a written request to cancel coverage. The enrollment of eligible employees and family members will be in accordance with the Summary Plan Description and shall include the following:
1)	First of the month following the elected change during the 30 day annual open enrollment period.
2)	For new spouse, the first of the month following date of marriage.
3)	Newborns coverage from date of birth.
4)	An employee, spouse, or child with coverage outside of the District whose coverage was terminated as a result of the spouse's termination of employment could be enrolled the first of the month following the date of termination of benefits.
Change requests for items 2, 3, and 4 to be submitted in writing within 30 days of the date of marriage, birth, or termination of benefits.
10.7.5	The District and the Association agree to participate in an ongoing study, analysis, and education program in health benefits.
I.8	EMPLOYEE PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS: Employees may participate in any tax sheltered annuity/deferred compensation life insurance plan and/or shares in a regulated investment company of their choice with the District providing payroll deductions for this purpose.
10.8.1	Employees may participate in Association sponsored group health, dental, and life insurance plans of their choice with the District providing payroll deduction for this purpose.
10.8.2	Employees may participate in a 125 flexible benefit program for the employee contribution to the Health Services Insurance Plan, medical reimbursement (to a maximum of $2,500 per year), and dependent care expenses with the district providing payroll deduction for this purpose.
ARTICLE 11 - WAGES
1.1	SALARY PLAN: The District agrees to add 9.75% to the Salary Schedule (Appendix D), retroactive to July 1,2000.
1.2	INITIAL PLACEMENT: The hiring rate for all new employees shall be the first step of the appropriate
21
22
salary range, except for such classes where an accelerated hiring rate has been approved. When the previous experience of a new employee so warrants, the employee may be hired at the second or third step of the salary range.
11.2.	1 The hiring rate of new employees entering journey level classifications in the Equipment & Repair Series, the Maintenance Trade Series, or the Vehicle Repair Series shall be the fourth step of the appropriate salary range.
11.3	STEP ADVANCEMENT: All employees shall be eligible for a step advancement on their anniversary date to the maximum step of the salary range.
11.3.1	Step Advancement - Aide Class: All classified employees assigned to a position which requires the taking of an instructional aide class must take and successfully pass the required instructional aide classes in order to receive an annual step increase. Employees who do not successfully complete the required classes shall be denied their annual step increase on their anniversary date. Employees who have been denied a step increase and subsequent to their anniversary date are successful in completing the classes will be eligible for future step increases on their next anniversary date.
11.3.1.1	No employee shall be denied a step increase for not completing required training or certification if a class is not provided by the district.
11.3.1.2	When required training or certification is only offered during an employee's working hours, that employee may take the class at no loss of pay.
11.4	ANNIVERSARY DATE: An employee's anniversary date is established as follows:
11.4.1	For appointments made between the first and 15th day of the month, the anniversary date shall be the first day of that month.
11.4.2	For appointments made between the 16th and final day of the month, the anniversary date shall be the first day of the following month.
11.4.3	Anniversary dates so established shall be extended due to unpaid leave of absence in excess of two weeks.
11.5	PROMOTION: An employee who receives a promotion shall be placed on the first step of the salary range for the new class which is equal to or above a one-step increase over the employee's current rate, except that an employee may be placed on the last step of the appropriate range if that is the maximum allowable for the class.
11.5.1	Upon promotion, the employee shall retain his/her anniversary date.
11.6	VOLUNTARY DEMOTION: Employee who accepts voluntary demotion shall be placed on the step of the range in the lower class which is closest to the rate earned in the higher class, provided that there shall be no salary increase.
11.6.1	Upon voluntary demotion, the employee shall retain his/her anniversary date.
11.7	TRANSFER: When an employee is transferred from one position to another in the same class or in a class with the same salary range, he/she shall retain the same step and anniversary date.
11.8	LONGEVITY ANNIVERSARY INCREMENTS: Employees in the bargaining unit shall be eligible for the following longevity increments:
11.8.1	10th Year - 2.5%: Beginning with the tenth year of service an employee shall receive an additional 2.5% of his/her regular salary range and step.
11.8.2	15th Year - 5,0%: Beginning with the 15th year of service, an employee shall receive an additional 2.5% for a total of 5% of his/her regular salary range and step.
11.8.3	20th Year - 7.5%: Beginning with the 20th year of service, an employee shall receive an additional 2.5% for a total of 7.5% of his/her regular salary range and step.
•j 1.9 MILEAGE: Employees whose responsibilities require travel to more than one site or who use their own vehicles for District authorized activities shall receive, if requested, mileage reimbursement at the current IRS rate.
11.9.1 Reimbursement shall be allowed for mileage accrued beyond that required for one round trip to the employee's regular work site.
11 10 SPECIAL RATES: All special rates for the following jobs will be paid at four ranges above the employee's current step: Asphalting, Cement Work (3 yards or more), Chipper, Roofing, Sandblasting.
11.10	.1 Painting by Custodians: Employees in the Custodial series who, in the course of their regular assignment are assigned to painting will receive special rates at four (4) ranges above the employee's current step.
Touch-up painting, including the covering of graffiti, is not included in the special rates, unless the painting takes longer than two (2) hours per day. Graffiti is defined as marks made by crayons, pens, pencils, spray paint, lipstick, fingernail polish, etc.
11.1	1 NIGHT DIFFERENTIAL PAY: Employees whose regular assignment requires them to work at least one-half of their regular shift between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and midnight shall receive night differential pay of 2.5% above their regular hourly rate of pay for each hour worked. Employees whose regular assignment requires them to work at least one-half of their regular shift between the hours of midnight to 7:00 a.m. shall receive night differential pay of 3.0% above their regular hourly rate of pay for each hour worked.
11.11.	1 Effective Date of Night Differential: An employee will begin earning night differential pay on the first day that the employee is assigned to work at least one-half of.his regular shift between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
11.11.	2 Termination Date of Night Differential: Night differential pay shall terminate on the first day that the employee is assigned to the day shift, except that an employee temporarily (20 working days or less) assigned to the day shift in the same classification shall not lose the pay differential.
11.11.	3 Differential Rate and Promotions: For purposes of promotion, the rate of pay for any employee receiving night differential pay shall be considered the employee's regular range and step excluding the differential pay.
11.1	2 WORKING OUT OF CLASS: A permanent employee who is assigned to work out of classification, to perform the duties of a higher classification, shall be compensated at the first step of the salary range for the higher classification that is equal to or above a one step increase in salary, provided the assignment is for five working days in a 12-day period.
11.12.	1 Retroactive: Compensation at the higher rate shall commence on the sixth working day and be retroactive to the first day.
11.12.	2 Vacation Period and Full Responsibilities: This section shall not be construed to include employees who are assigned to fill in during vacation periods, but who are not given full responsibility for the duties of the higher classification.
11.1	3 EMPLOYEE SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS: The District will provide employees with supples, tools, and materials to perform their duties.
11.13.	1	Prior Written Approval: Employees may not use personally owned supplies, tools, and
materials to perform their duties without prior written approval of the appropriate
23
24
department head.
11.13.	2 District Required Tools: Notwithstanding the above, if the District requires employees to furnish supplies, tools, and/or materials to perform assigned duties, the District will provide a safe place to store such supplies, tools, and materials. If such supplies, tools, and/or materials are lost, the District will replace them in kind, if the employee's negligence did not contribute to the loss.
11.13.	3 Tool Allowance: Employees, who as a condition of employment are required to have their own tools, shall be eligible to receive up to $300.00 per fiscal year to replace broken or worn-out tools under the following conditions:
11.13.3.	1 The employee has been in that position for a period of one year.
11.13.3.	2 The employee's tool inventory must be placed on file with the supervisor/ manager.
11.13.3.	3 Proof must be shown that the employee has replaced or added to the basic tool inventory.
11.13.3.	4 The inventory must be updated annually and verified with the supervisor/manager prior to an employee receiving payment.
11.1	4 EMPLOYEE PERSONAL PROPERTY: The District shall replace or reimburse employees for the cost of replacing or repairing personal property damaged or lost in the performance of their duties under the following conditions:
11.14.	1	The property is the type that is necessarily worn by the employee.
11.14.	2	The property was lost or damaged through no fault of the employee.
11.14.	3 The value of the property, which shall be determined as of the time of loss or damage, is greater than $50 and less than $750.
11.14.	4 The employee will use all other available methods to recover compensation before making a claim against the District.
11.1	5 PROFESSIONAL GROWTH PROGRAM: The Professional Growth Program is designed to provide an opportunity for professional and personal growth for classified employees through continuing education. It is intended to recognize an employee's voluntary effort to increase his/her general and/or specific value to the District. The program will allow employees the opportunity to increase skills and earn salary advancement. See Professional Growth Form, Appendices E1 and E2.
11.15.	1 Eligibility: All regular full- or part-time employees are eligible to participate in the Professional Growth Program after completion of their initial probationary period.
11.15.1.	1 Course work commenced prior to July 1, 1985 may not be used towards earning a professional growth salary increment.
11.15.1.	2 Employees must have completed three years of service in order to receive the first professional growth increment.
11.15.1.	3 An employee is eligible to receive one professional growth increment for each 15 professional growth points he/she has accumulated.
11.15.	2	Earning Professional Growth Points: Professional growth points are earned as follows:
11.15.2.	1 One point for each full semester unit for courses taken at a community college or university (2/3 of a point for each quarter unit).
25
11.15.2.	2 One point for each 16 hours of classroom instruction for ROP, adult education, or trade school classes where college equivalent units are not granted.
11.15.2.	3 One point for each 16 hours of attendance at job-related lectures, training programs, seminars, and District workshops.
11.15.	3	Receiving Credit for Points: In order to receive credit:
11.15.3.	1 Course work must be taken at accredited schools.
11.15.3.	2 Training sessions, job-related lectures, seminars, and workshops must be approved by the employee's department head.
11.15.3.	3 Classes and/or training sessions may not be taken during the employee's regular work hours.
11.15.3.	4 All courses required for a degree are acceptable for job related courses if prior approval of the degree program is obtained from the Office of Personnel Services.
11.15.	4	Professional Growth Increments: Eligible employees will receive a salary increment of
35 cents per hour for each 15 professional growth points accumulated. At least 12 of the 15 points must be job-related. The remaining three points may be in the area of personal growth.
11.15.4.	1 Courses determined to be recreational are not creditable toward professional growth points.
11.15.4.	2 A minimum of two years must elapse before an additional increment can be earned.
11.15.4.	3 An employee can earn a maximum of four professional growth increments.
11.15.	5 Program Administration: The Office of Personnel Services shall be responsible for the administration of the Professional Growth Program. In order to receive credit, employees must submit verification of completed course work or training.
11.15.5.	1 The Office of Personnel Services will maintain a permanent record of points accumulated and will notify employees if credit for courses or training has been approved.
11.15.5.	2 In order to receive credit, a course must be completed with a passing grade of "C" or better. In courses where grades are not given certification of satisfactory completion must be submitted.
11.15.5.	3 The Office of Personnel Services shall notify the Payroll Department and the employee when professional growth increments have been earned.
11.15.	6 Professional Growth Committee: A Professional Growth Committee shall be established. This committee will include two CSEA appointees and two District representatives. This committee will be responsible for maintaining a list of job-related fields of study which will serve as a guideline in determining whether or not a particular course or training program is job-related. Individual course approval will be given by the employee's department head and reviewed for final approval by the Office of Personnel Services. Courses not approved may be appealed to the Professional Growth Committee. Final approval will rest with the Superintendent.
11.1	6 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT: Each employee shall have the opportunity to attend and be compensated for an annual maximum of 15 hours of employee development activities beyond the
26
work year, work week, or work day, at the current step of their classification. See Appendices E3 and E4.
of CSEA for matters provided in the Educational Employment Relations Act.
11.16.	1 Employee Development Committee: An Employee Development Committee shall be established. This committee will include two CSEA appointees and two District representatives. This committee will be responsible for exploring employee development options, topics, and implementation.
ARTICLE 12	- ASSOCIATION RIGHTS
12.1	ACCESS:- CSEA shall have the right of access to areas in which employees work before or after working hours or lunch breaks with the approval of the immediate supervisor of the work location.
12.2	BULLETIN BOARDS/MAIL SERVICE: CSEA shall have the right to use institutional bulletin boards, mailboxes, and the District mail service subject to the following regulations:
12.2.1	At least a reasonable portion of one bulletin board at each work location shall be provided for CSEA use.
12.2.2	Materials to be posted on designated bulletin boards shall be dated and have proper CSEA identification.
12.2.3	Materials to be sent through the District mail service shall be dated, have proper CSEA identification, and shall be routed to the District Public Information Office before mailing.
12.2.4	Information distributed through the District mail or posted on designated bulletin boards shall be reasonable.
12.3	DISTRICT FACILITIES: CSEA shall have the right to use District facilities according to the rules and regulations of the Civic Center Act.
12.4	BUDGET/FINANCIAL REPORT: CSEA shall be provided, on request, with a copy of any official budget or financial report necessary to the negotiation process.
12.5	RELEASE TIME: CSEA shall receive as a maximum each year 50 released days, plus one-eighth day per member of the bargaining unit, for the purposes of meeting and negotiating, and for the processing of grievances, and contract administration during the term of this contract.
12.5.1	The President of the Association, or designee, shall be entitled to use up to 15 days of the released time for purposes of contract administration.
12.6	PRINTING OF CONTRACT: As soon as possible, the District shall provide each employee in the bargaining units covered by this Agreement with a copy of the new Agreement. The cost of the publication shall be equally divided between CSEA and the District.
12.7	MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP: The right of payroll deduction for payment of organizational dues shall be accorded exclusively to CSEA. Any employee who is a member or becomes a member of CSEA shall have dues deductions made by the District. Authorized dues deductions shall be non-revocable during the period of this contract as long as the employee is part of the bargaining unit. Such authorized deductions shall continue when a member returns from unpaid leave. Employees may drop membership in CSEA by submitting a request to discontinue membership to the Office of Personnel Services during the 30 calendar day period immediately succeeding the expiration of the current contract (July 1 to July 31,2003). No other revocation period will be allowed.
12.7.1	Hold Harmless Clause: CSEA shall indemnify and hold the District harmless from any and all claims, demands, or suits, or any other action arising from the Organizational Security Provisions contained herein.
12.8	CHAPTER'S USE OF CSEA: The District recognizes the right of CSEA #121 to utilize the services
ARTICLE 13	- DISTRICT RIGHTS
13.1	DISTRICT RIGHTS: The District retains and reserves unto itself all powers, rights, authority, duties, and responsibilities conferred upon and vested in it by the statutes of the State of California. The exercise of these powers, rights, authorities, duties, and responsibilities by the District, the adoption of policies, rules, regulations, and practices in furtherance thereof, and the use of judgment and discretion in connection therewith, shall be limited only by the specific and express terms of this Agreement and then only to the extent such specific and express terms are in conformance with law.
ARTICLE 14	- CONCERTED ACTIVITIES
14.1	NO STRIKE: CSEA recognizes the duty and obligation of its bargaining unit members to comply with the provisions of this Agreement. Therefore, CSEA agrees that it will not engage in any strike, picketing, or work slowdown during the term of this Agreement.
14.2	NO LOCK-OUT: The District agrees it will not lock out the employees covered by this Agreement during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 15-LAYOFF
15.1	TYPES OF LAYOFFS: “Layoff" shall be defined as the severance of a unit member from employment with the District as a result of a lack of work or lack of funds. An employee shall be considered laid off if:
15.1.1	an employee's position has been eliminated and he/she has least seniority in the class;
15.1.2	an employee's position has been eliminated and the employee, who is not least senior in the class, elects not to exercise bumping rights;
15.1.3	an employee has been bumped by one with greater seniority whose position was eliminated;
15.1.4	an employee has been returned, following promotion or transfer, during the probationary period to his/her former class and the employee has less seniority than any incumbent;
15.1.5	an employee has been displaced by another employee with greater seniority who is returning from leave;
15.1.6	an employee has exhausted all leaves approved by the Board of Education and is unable to return to duty following an illness, injury, or accident;
15.1.7	an employee's position has been reclassified and the employee is not eligible for the reclassified position and has least seniority in the class in which he/she has been serving.
15.2	REDUCTIONS IN ASSIGNED TIME: Reductions in assigned time shall be considered a layoff under any of the following conditions:
15.2.1	The reduction results in the employee no longer being eligible for health and welfare benefits provided under the terms of this Agreement.
15.2.2	The assigned time of an employee is reduced by more than one hour per day.
15.2.3	The work year of an employee is reduced by more than 10 days per year.
27
28
15.3	LAYOFF BY SENIORITY: Layoff shall be made in inverse order by seniority in the class in which layoff occurs. The employee with least seniority shall be laid off first.
15.3.1	An employee whose position is being eliminated shall be reassigned to an available vacant position in the same class and that most nearly approximates his/her currently assigned hours and months of work.
15.3.2	Refusal to accept a reassignment which would provide assigned time equal to or greater than the current assignment shall be considered a resignation.
15.4	30-DAY NOTICE OF LAYOFF: Employees to be laid off shall be given at least 30 days written notice by certified letter with return receipt requested of such layoff. Notwithstanding this provision, employees may be laid off with less than 30 days notice if the layoff results from causes not foreseeable by the District.
15.4.1	The notice of layoff shall specify the reason for layoff.
15.5	COMPUTATION OF SENIORITY: Length of service (seniority as prescribed herein) shall be the only criterion used to effect layoffs. Whenever a classified employee is laid off, the order of layoff within the class shall be determined by length of service. The employee who has been employed the shortest time in the class, equal classes in a related series, plus higher classes (as determined by the Personnel Commission), shall be laid off first. Reemployment shall be in the reverse order of layoff. "Length of Service" shall be defined to include the hire date of that employee as a regular probationary or permanent employee in the class, equal classes in a related series, plus any service in higher classes, with deductions for any unpaid time as defined in Section 15.5.2. This length of service computation shall be known as the Adjusted Class Hire Date.
15.5.1	Service Credit for Some Unpaid Leaves: The Personnel Commission shall grant length of service credit for time spent on unpaid leaves in the following areas: Military Leave, Illness Leave, Maternity Leave, and Industrial Accident/lllness Leave.
15.5.2	No Service Credit for Unpaid Leaves Over 21 Days: Except as noted in Section 15.5.1 above, all unpaid leaves of more than 21 consecutive working days shall not count towards earning "length of service" seniority credit. Employees taking leaves over 21 consecutive working days shall have their classification hire date adjusted on a day-for-day basis for the duration of the unpaid leave.
15.5.3	Tie-Breakers for Employees with Equal Seniority: If two or more employees subject to layoff have equal Adjusted Class Hire Date seniority as defined above, then the preference shall be given to the employee with the earliest Class Hire Date seniority. Class Hire Date seniority shall be defined to mean the date than an employee was hired in that class, regardless of time spent on unpaid leave or other adjustments. If Class Hire Date seniority is equal, then the preference shall be given to the employee with the earliest Regular Hire Date seniority. Regular Hire Date seniority shall be defined to mean the date than an employee was hired as a probationary classified employee in the District. If Regular Hire Date seniority is equal, the preference shall be given to the employee with the earliest District Hire Date seniority. District Hire Date seniority shall be defined to mean the date than an employee was hired into the District, regardless of whether or not hired as a regular or temporary employee. If District Hire Date seniority is equal, the decision shall be made by random selection. Random selection shall consist of a drawing of names. Representatives of impacted bargaining units and the District shall be present at the drawing.
15.5.4	No Seniority Earned While on Reemployment Lists: Laid-off employees do not accumulate seniority while on reemployment lists.
15.5.5	Maintenance of Seniority Lists: The District shall maintain data on employee seniority within classification.
15.5.6	Seniority After Reclassification: When reclassification results either in the merger of two or more classes or the separation of a class into two or more classes, the seniority of
29
employees who are reclassified with their positions, and whose former class or classes have been abolished or separated, shall be computed from the date of earliest entrance into regular service in such classes.
15.6	BUMPING RIGHTS: Employees shall have the following bumping rights in the event of a layoff:
15.6.1	Bumping within Class: An employee whose position is eliminated may displace the employee within his/her class who has the least seniority, regardless of differences in assigned shift hours (i.e., 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. or 2:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.), location, or source of funding.
15.6.2	Bumping Into Another Class: An employee having least seniority in his/her class who is to be laid off, and who has seniority in an equal or lower class greater than that of an incumbent, shall have the right to displace the incumbent with the least seniority in that class. A lower class is defined as one that is currently placed at a lower range on the salary schedule.
15.6.3	Rights of Employee Displaced by Bumping: An employee who has been displaced shall have the same bumping rights as if his/her position had been abolished.
15.6.4	Waiver of Bumping Rights: If an employee waives bumping rights, he/she will be placed on the appropriate reemployment list. Such employees shall not be subject to the provisions of Section 15.8.4 of this Article.
15.6.5	No Bumping If Vacant Position: No employee can be bumped from a position if there is a vacant position in that class.
15.6.6	Bumping Rights if Reductions in Assigned Time: Employees affected by the provisions of Section 15.2 of this Article shall exercise bumping right within assigned time or assigned work year in the same manner as employees laid off under the provisions of Section 15.1.
15.6.7	Restrictions In Bumping: An employee may not bump into any position with a greater number of hours assigned that would cause the employee to become eligible for health and welfare benefits.
15.6.8	Retirement In Lieu of Layoff: Eligible employees who elect service retirement in lieu of layoff shall be placed on the appropriate reemployment list.
15.7	VOLUNTARY DEMOTION: A permanent employee who is to be laid off may elect demotion to a lower class or transfer to an equal class in which he/she has not served if there is a vacant position and if he/she is qualified to perform the duties of the class.
15.7.1	An employee who demotes or transfers to a class in which he/she has not previously served shall serve a six-month probation in the new class. If the employee does, not successfully complete the probationary period, he/she may be terminated. The employee’s name shall remain on the reemployment list for his/her former class.
15.8	REEMPLOYMENT: The names of employees who are laid off shall be placed on the reemployment list for the class from which they were laid off. Names on the reemployment list shall be in order of seniority.
15.8.1	Offers of Reemployment in Seniority Order: The reemployment list for a class shall be used before any other means of filling vacancies for that class with the exception of the exercise of bumping rights or the transfer of employees within the same class. Offers of reemployment shall be made first to the employee with the greatest seniority.
15.8.2	Reemployment and Transfers/ Demotions/ Reductions: An employee accepting a transfer, voluntary demotion, or voluntary reduction in assigned time in lieu of layoff shall have his/her name placed on the reemployment list for the appropriate class.
30
15.8.3	Reemployment Rights for 39 Months: Persons whose names are placed on a reemployment list shall retain eligibility for reemployment for a period of 39 months from the date of layoff or demotion.
15.8.4	Additional 24 Months for Voluntary Demotions/Reductions: Employees who take voluntary demotions or reductions in assigned time in lieu of layoff, or who remain in positions rather than be reclassified, shall retain eligibility for reemployment for an additional 24 months.
15.9	RIGHTS/RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERSONS ON REEMPLOYMENT LISTS: Persons who are on a reemployment list shall have the following rights and responsibilities:
15.9.1	Competing In Promotional Exams: Persons on reemployment lists shall be eligible to compete in promotional examinations for which they qualify and shall retain their places on eligibility lists.
15.9.2	Offers of Reemployment Refused: A person who refuses an offer of reemployment to the class from which laid off shall lose the privilege of the District initiating reemployment offers. The District will bypass that person on the reemployment list, except as noted below. It shall be the responsibility of the person who refused reemployment to contact the Office of Personnel Services in writing about his/her availability for further employment opportunities for the remainder of the reemployment eligibility period. Refusal or failure to accept certified mail regarding notification of an opening shall be considered a refusal of an offer of employment.
15.9.3	Notification of Change In Address/Phone: Persons on reemployment lists must inform the Office of Personnel Services in writing of any change of address or telephone number.
15.9.4	Retention of Rights If Reinstated to Lower Position: A laid-off employee who accepts either reinstatement to a lower class or a provisional appointment shall retain his/her reemployment rights.
15.9.5	Disability While on List: The inability of a person on a reemployment list to accept a job offer because of a verified disability shall neither constitute reason for forfeiture of reemployment rights nor extend the length of the reemployment period.
15.10	NOTIFICATION OF REEMPLOYMENT: An employee who is laid off and is subsequently eligible for reemployment shall be notified by the District of an opening. Such notice shall be directed to the last address given the District by the employee.
15.10.1	The laid-off employee shall notify the District within two days of his/her intent to accept or refuse the offer of reemployment.
ARTICLE 16	- TRANSPORTATION PROVISIONS
16.1	DEFINITIONS: The following definitions refer only to Article 16.
16.1.1	Work Time: The following definitions apply to work time.
16.1.1.1	Daily basic time is seven (7) hours per day.
16.1.1.2	Extra time is the time worked between the seventh and eighth hour and work performed on holidays, during recess periods, and during the summer.
16.1.1.3	Overtime is any time worked in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week.
16.1.2	Bus Route: A combination of bus runs with specific directions regularly assigned to a single bus.
31
16.1.3	Bus Run: A single trip taken from the Transportation Yard for the purpose of transporting students to and from school at a specified time.
16.1.4	Dally Basic Time: The total time it takes to complete the runs assigned to a bus. This includes the time it takes to drive to and from school, waiting or layover time, assigned campus time, fifteen (15) minutes (twenty (20) minutes for buses with air brakes) for checking out the bus, fifteen (15) minutes for cleaning the bus, and ten (10) minutes per run for walking to and from the bus at the Transportation Yard for each check-in and check-out.
16.1.5	Bus Driver:
16.1.5.1	Pool Bus Driver: A driver who has no assigned bus and who is eligible to bid on available buses.
16.1.5.2	Regular Bus Driver: A driver who has been assigned a bus, and who is eligible to bid on available buses.
16.1.5.3	Trip Driver: A bus driver who signs on at designated times during the school year to work field trips, sports trips, and extra work available before, during, and after his/her basic time.
16.1.6	Stand-By Time: Time a driver is required to spend during a field trip waiting for completion of the event that necessitated the trip.
16.1.7	Campus Time: Non-bus driving duties as assigned by the District. Examples of these duties are refueling buses, campus supervision, clerical assignments, etc., to bring basic time up to seven hours.
16.2	BUS BIDDING: A regular bus driver will continue to drive the same vehicle from year to year unless reassigned for the good of the service and/or in the interest of safety, provided that such action shall not be taken for punitive or preferential reasons.
16.2.1	New or Unasslqned Buses: A bus driver may bid on any new and/or unassigned bus by signing the appropriate bid sheet. Bidding shall consist of bus drivers signing the bid sheet in ink. If a driver decides to remove his/her bid from the sheet, it shall be done before bidding ends, by crossing out his/her name with one line and initialing the change In ink.
16.2.1.1	During the school year, bid sheets shall be posted as soon as possible, but no later than ten working days after the bus becomes unassigned. Bid sheets shall remain posted for five working days and be assigned within that day in which bidding ends. The bid sheet for buses that become available during the summer will be posted on the first Monday following the opening of school in September, and shall remain posted for five working days. No bus up for bid may be test driven after bidding has concluded, to determine if a driver accepts that assignment. If no bus driver bids on an available bus, it shall be assigned to the most senior pool bus driver.
16.2.1.2	If all drivers who have bid are qualified, the bus shall be assigned to the most senior driver remaining on the list.
16.2.1.3	A driver who has won the bid for a bus will not be eligible to bid again until the next school year.
16.3	BUS ROUTE ASSIGNMENT: Prior to the start of each school year, bus routes will be assigned to each bus.
16.3.1	Individual Runs May be Reassigned: Individual bus runs may be reassigned at the supervisor's discretion in order to equalize daily basic time.
32
16.3.2	Non-Bus Driving Duties: Bus drivers will perform additional non-bus driving duties as assigned by the District as campus time.
16.4	ASSIGNMENT OF OVERTIME: Overtime will be assigned based on the qualifications of the drivers and the equipment available in order of seniority.
16.4.1	Equalize Overtime: Every effort will be made to equalize overtime hours according to seniority on a rotational basis.
16.4.2	Availability: All drivers are expected to make themselves available for overtime work.
16.4.3	Notice of Overtime Assignment: Overtime work shall be assigned as soon as practicable; when possible at least 72 hours notice will be given. If a driver comes up in rotation for an overtime assignment for a trip requiring a bus capacity for which they are not qualified, they will be passed over and charged for the overtime hours required for the trip.
16.4.4	Declining Overtime: Drivers who are given at least 24 hours notice of overtime work and who decline such work or are not available for such work, shall have those hours added to their overtime hours worked. Drivers who decline overtime work are required to complete and sign the "Time Driver is Not Available" form.
16.4.5	Posting of Overtime: All overtime hours for drivers will be posted at the end of each twomonth period during the school year.
16.5	PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME: Bus drivers will be compensated for all overtime work including standby time at the appropriate rate.
16.5.1	Notification of Trip Cancellation: Bus drivers shall be notified of any trip cancellation at least one hour prior to the time they are required to report for work. If a trip is canceled at the site, drivers will be paid for three hours of work at the overtime rate.
16.6	EXTRA WORK: All extra work performed during the spring and winter recess periods, holidays, and Saturdays adjacent to holidays shall be posted for sign-up by bus drivers and assigned to trip drivers first by order of seniority on a rotation basis. In the event that not enough trip drivers sign up for the extra work, bus drivers may be assigned the extra work on the same basis. This time will not be used to calculate adjusted work time.
16.7	SAFETY: The district may allow a bus driver involved in a chargeable accident to voluntarily participate in unpaid behind-the-wheel training, in lieu of disciplinary action (suspension, demotion, dismissal). This time may be applied to the driver’s required T-01 hours.
ARTICLE 17	- SUBSTANCE ABUSE SCREENING/PRE-PROMOTIONAL PHYSICAL
17.1	A permanent classified employee shall not be drug screened without cause.
17.2	Pre-Promotional Physical: A permanent classified employee shall not be given a substance abuse screening during a pre-promotional physical without cause. Exception to this would be when state law requires certain occupations to be tested.
ARTICLE 18	- SAVINGS PROVISION
18.1	SAVINGS PROVISION: If any provisions of this Agreement are held to be contrary to law by the Public Employment Relations Board ora court of competent jurisdiction, such provisions shall not be deemed valid and subsisting except to the extent permitted by law, but all other provisions shall continue in full force and effect.
33
ARTICLE 19	- COMPLETION OF MEET AND NEGOTIATE
,9.1 ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND CONCLUSION OF NEGOTIATIONS: This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and concludes meet and negotiate on any item, whether included in the Agreement or not, for the term of this Agreement, except for reopeners on Article 10 - Health and Welfare Benefits, Article 11 • Wages, the Classified Personnel Calendars for 2001-02 and 2002-03, and one (1) other article for each party during 2001-02 and 2002-03.
Date
Date
34
APPENDIX A
BARGAINING UNIT INCLUSIONS AND EXCLUSIONS
BARGAINING UNIT
Accounting Technician I Accounting Technician II Assistant Buyer
Assistant Programmer
Athletic Equipment Attendant Automotive Parts Clerk Auditorium Attendant Automotive Trimmer Baker
Benefits Specialist
Bilingual Specialist
Bilingual Testing Clerk Breakfast Worker
Building Maintenance Worker Bus & Truck Mechanic Bus Driver Bus Driver Trainer
Buyer
Cabinetmaker
Campus Aide
Carpenter l/Carpenter II
Carpet Layer
Central Office Clerk I
Central Office Clerk II
Central Office Receptionist
Claims Adjuster -
Clerical Specialist I
Clerical Specialist II
Clerical Specialist III
Community Outreach Spec. I Community Outreach Spec. II Computer Operator
Computer Operator Trainee Computer Resource Assistant Cook
Cook-Baker Trainee Credentials Technician Custodian
Data Control Specialist
Data Entry Clerk l/ll Delivery Truck Driver Electric Motor Mechanic Electrician
Electronic Technician
Elementary School Secretary
Evaluation Specialist Food Service Worker I Food Service Worker II Furniture Repairer General Maintenance Worker Glazier
Grounds Equipment Mechanic Grounds Equipment Operator I Grounds Equipment Operator II Groundskeeper-Gardener H.V.A.C. Technician l/ll Head Custodian I Health Assistant Instructional Aide - A/B
Instructional Aide - Handicapped I Instructional Aide - Hand. II Instructional Aide - Sp. Assign. Instructional Aide - Special Ed. Ill Instructional Materials Advisor Intermediate Programmer Intermediate School Secretary Job Placement Specialist Kitchen Equipment Mechanic Laundry Worker Load Credentials Technician Lead Custodian
Lead Food Service Worker
Lead Groundskeeper-Gardener Lead Warehouse Worker Library Aide Library Clerk Locksmith Machinist
Mechanical Maintenance Worker Mechanic’s Helper Media Services Clerk I Media Services Clerk II Network Analyst Network Technician Nursery Aide
Offset Press Operator I Offset Press Operator II Painter
Painter Helper Plumber I Plumber II Pool Maintenance Worker Programmer Analyst Purchasing Clerk Receptionist - Cosmetology Redesignation Specialist School Accounting Technician School Community Liaison Worker School Office Clerk I School Office Clerk II
Secretary I Secretary II Secretary III Senior Computer Operator Senior Custodian
Senior Programmer Analyst Senior School Secretary Small Appliance Technician Sprinkler Repair Technician I Sprinkler Repair Technician II Stock Clerk l/ll Tile Setter
Tool Clerk l/ll Tree Trimmer Visually Handicapped Specialist Vocational Specialist Welder
SUPERVISORY EXCLUSIONS
Accounting Supervisor
Building Supervisor
Bus & Truck Shop Supervisor
Bus Driver Training Supervisor Construction Maintenance Supervisor Custodial Operations Supervisor Equipment Repair Supervisor Fiscal Services Coordinator
Food Service Manager
Food Service Operations Manager Grounds Maintenance Supervisor Lead Bus & Truck Mechanic Maintenance & Operations Coordinator Mechanical Repair Supervisor Network/Operations Supervisor Network Systems Supervisor
Painting Supervisor
Plant Supervisor I Plant Supervisor II Purchasing/Warehouse Coordinator
MANAGEMENT EXCLUSIONS Assistant Director of Food Services Asst. Director, Maint., Oper. & Transp. Asst. Superintendent. Business Svcs. Business Manager
Director of Business Services
Director of Facilities & Planning Director of Food Services
Director of Maint., Operations & Transp. Fiscal Services Manager
Information Systems Director Information Systems Manager Personnel Director
Public Information Specialist Sprinkler Repair Supervisor Structural Repair Supervisor Supervising Offset Press Operator Systems Analyst
Theatrical Services Supervisor Transportation Dispatcher Warehouse Supervisor
CONFIDENTIAL EXCLUSIONS Accountant
Administrative Secretary Budget Specialist Personnel Analyst Personnel Secretary Position Control Technician Secretary to the Superintendent
EXEMPTED UNDER ED. CODE 45256
Noon Duty Supervisor Noon Duly Supervisor B Special Student Services - A/B Student Worker
Student WorkerTrainee Substitute Classifications
APPENDIX B
CLASSIFIED VACATION SCHEDULE
YEARS OF SERVICE	12 month Employee	11 month Employee	10.5 month Employee	I 10 month Employee	i School ! Session i Employee
LESS THAN 4	12.0	11.0	10.5	10.0	9.0
MORE THAN 4, LESS THAN 8	15.0	13.5	13.0	12.5	11.5
MORE THAN 8, LESS THAN 9	16.0	14.5	14.0	13.0	12.0
MORE THAN 9, LESS THAN 10	17.0	15.5	15.0	14.0	13.0
MORE THAN 10, LESS THAN 11	18.0	16.5	15.5	15.0	13.5
MORE THAN 11, LESS THAN 12	19.0	17.5	16.5	15.5	14.5
MORE THAN 12, LESS THAN 14	20.0	18.5	17.5	16.0	15.0
MORE THAN 14	22.0	20.0	19.0	18.0	16.5
APPENDIX C
GARDEN GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL CALENDAR 2000-2001
HOLIDAYS	REGULAR SCHEDULE	SUN-THURS	TUES-SAT SCHEDULE
Independence Day	Tues,	07/04/00	Tues,	07/04/00	Tues,	07/04/00 Labor Day	Mon.	09/04/00	Sun,	09/03/00	Sat,	09/02/00 Veterans'Day	Fri,	11/10/00	Sun,	11/12/00	Sat,	11/11/00 Thanksgiving Day	Thurs,	11/23/00	Thurs,	11/23/00	Thurs,	11/23/00 Day After Thanksgiving	Fri,	11/24/00	Wed,	11/22/00	Fri,	11/24/00* Local Holiday (in lieu of Admission Day)	Fri,	12/22/00	Sun,	12/24/00	Sat,	12/23/00 Christmas Day (observed)	Mon,	12/25/00	Mon,	12/25/00	Tues,	12/26/00 Local Holiday	Tues,	12/26/00	Tues,	12/26/00	Wed,	12/27/00 New Year's Day (observed)	Mon,	01/01/01	Mon,	01/01/01	Sat,	12/30/00 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day	Mon,	01/15/01	Sun,	01/14/01	Sat,	01/13/01 Lincoln Day	Mon,	02/12/01	Sun,	02/11/01	Sat,	02/10/01 Washington Day	Mon,	02/19/01	Sun,	02/18/01	Sat,	02/17/01 Good Friday	Fri,	04/13/01	Thurs,	04/12/01	Fri,	04/13/01* Memorial Day	Mon,	05/28/01	Sun,	05/27/01	Sat.	05/26/01 * Employees work at the regular rate of pay on the previous Monday, in lieu of a day off on Saturday.			
OPENING DATES:
School Session Employees High School ROP Clerks..................................................................Mon, 08/28/00
Food Service Manegers.................................................................Fri,	09/01/00
Cooks, Bakers, & Bus Drivers..........................................................Tues. 09/05/00
Other Food Service Employees..........................................................Wed, 09/06/00
Attendance Workers, Comm. Outreach Spec., Computer Resource Assts., Health Assts., Instructional Aides, Library Aides, Sch. Comm. Liaison Workers, School Office Clerks I, ....Thurs, 09/07/00
10	Month Employees Elementary School Secretaries...........................................................Thurs,	08/17/00
Instructional Services Center.........................................................Thurs,	08/24/00
High School Attendance................................................................Wed,	08/30/00
Office of Special Ed. Services, Intermediate	School	Clerks............................Fri,	09/01/00
High Schools (except Attendance) & 7-12	Instruction...................................Fri,	09/01/00
All Other District Office, Adult Ed. & ROP............................................Fri,	09/01/00
10.5 Month Employees.....................................................................Thurs,	08/17/00
11	Month Employees ••
OTHER DATES: First Day For Students..................................................................Thurs,	09/07/00
Last Day For Students.................................................................Wed,	06/20/01
Non-Student Day (Regular Workday For All Classified Employees)........................Thurs,	02/01/01
Non-Student Day (Regular Workday For All Classified Employees)........................Fri,	02/02/01
Winter Recess........................................................Mon, 12/18/00 - Fri, 12/29/00
Spring Recess Period.................................................Mon, 04/09/01 - Fri,	04/13/01
LAST DAY OF WORK:
School Session Employees Bus Drivers, Computer Resource Assts., Food Svc., Instr. Aides, Sch. Comm. Liaison Wkrs.Wed, 06/20/01 Attendance Workers, Comm. Outreach Spec., Food Svc. Managers, Health Assistants,
Library Aides, ROP Clerks (H.S.), School Office Clerks I............................Thurs, 06/21/01
10 Month Employees Instructional Services Center...........................................................Thurs,	06/21/01
Elementary School Secretaries.........................................................Tues,	06/26/01
Office of Special Ed. Services, Intermediate & Elementary Schools.....................Fri,	06/29/01
High Schools (Inc. Attendance) & 7-12 Instruction.....................................Fri,	06/29/01
All Other District Office, Adult Ed. & ROP............................................Fri,	06/29/01
10.5 Month Employees.....................................................................Fri,	06/29/01
11 Month Employees.......................................................................Fri,	06/29/01
•• 11 month employees will start either July 1 or August 1, depending on the month they are off (based on the needs of the worksite).
04/12
SALARY SCHEDULE FOR BARGAINING UNIT CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES
2000-01
Board of Education Approval 11/21/00
APPENDIX E1
GARDEN GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SCHEMATIC LISTING OF CSEA UNIT CLASSES BY SERIES
8888888	88888855
GARDEN GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED PROFESSIONAL GROWTH PROGRAM
APPLICATION FOR COURSE WORK APPROVAL
TO BE COMPLETED BY EMPLOYEE
NAME:	SOCIAL SECURITY #: 
LOCATION:  POSITION:  DATE OF HIRE: 
I hereby request that credit be granted for the following education/lraining. Verification of satisfactory completion will be submitted at the conclusion of this training.
COURSE NUMBER	TITLE OR DESCRIPTION OF COURSE OR TRAINING	COLLEGE/SCHOOUORGANIZATION OFFERING TRAINING	DATE OF COURSEZTRAJNING	UNITS/HOURS
			FROM:	TO:	
			FROM:	TO:	
			FROM:	TO:	
			FROM:	TO:	
Explanation of content of course/training:____________________________________________________________________________________
88858
8888833338888888

*» v> <0 to io n- co

Employee's Signature:  Date: 
Employees become eligible to receive Professionel Growth increments on the first of September or the first of March /allowing submission of verificetion of an accumulation of (15) qualified Professional Growth points. At least 12 of the 15 points must be job related. A minimum of two years must elapse before an additional increment can be earned. Submit requests no later than August 1 or February 1.
TO BE COMPLETED BY DEPARTMENT HEAD
I have conferred with the employee andDO/DONOT (circle one) recommend approval for job related credit. •
Department Head's Signature: Date: •
		PERSONNEL OFFICE USE ONLY
Verification of Completion	Received	Required
Job Related Credit	Approved		 Disapproved 	
Personal Growth Credit	Approved		 Disapproved 	
Reason for Disapproval: ______________________________________________________________________________________________
o
co
Q
§
?= s 4
>5S«?S
iWi HinH
Classified employees have a right to appeal this decision to the Professional Growth Committee by submitting a letter to the Office of Personnel Services.
Personnel Director's Signature: Date: 
Comments: _____________________________________________________________________________________________________
RETURN BOTH WHITE AND YELLOW COPIES TO THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL SERVICES.
9701.129' (Revised 12/98)
GARDEN GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
OFFICE OF PERSONNEL SERVICES
DATE:	FEBRUARY 14, 2001
TO:	CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES
FROM:	SUZY SEYMOUR, DIRECTOR OF CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL
RE:	USE OF EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT HOURS
The purpose of the employee development program is to provide compensation for attendance at district-approved employee development activities up to a maximum of 15 hours annually. Employee development hours should be used for training that will enhance your role as an employee. Our office is receiving an increased number of employee development timecards without the required pre-authorization, and/or that go beyond what is authorized in our classified bargaining agreements. Future employee development hours will be approved only if the guidelines outlined in the Appendix E3 of this contract are followed. Appendix E3 is shown on the back of this memo. Please keep with your contract; Appendix E3 shown in this contract is incorrect.
PROCEDURE FOR ATTENDANCE VERIFICATION AND COMPENSATION
1.	For district and/or joint district/supervisors-sponsored workshops:
>	sign in at the workshop.
>	obtain a Workshop Attendance Verification Form.
2.	For any other approved conferences and workshops (see guidelines in Appendix E3), obtain a Workshop Attendance Verification Form with pre-approval by department head. Proof of attendance and verification of hours must be obtained.
3.	The Classified Employee Development Hourly Payroll Time Report (Form #9703.61) with attached workshop attendance verification must be received by Personnel Services by the 15th of each month for payment the following month. Retain copies for your files.
4.	Requests should be submitted monthly.
5.	All requests must be received in the fiscal year that the workshop is given (July 1 - June 30).
APPENDIX E2
O 0)
0
0)
0)
0
3
0
o
co
0
o
o
0
0
0 o
0
0
0 0 0
0
0
0
0
3
0 5
3 ®
0
B o
0
0
0 0
0 0
5
0 2,
x co
0
N 0
0 0
0
0
m
0 B
o
0 0
in 0
0 o
0
B 0
B 0
B 0
0
0
0
0
<Q
0
€
■< <t>
0 q
0 -5
0
0
0
0
B 0
0
0 o
0 g a 0
0 0
70 m m	70 O
••	o "
2
cn m
O
cn
N
o
m
cn m
O
O
m m
m
m
m
o
o
o
m
cn cn
m
m
O
m
m
cn
o >
m
m
M
(Q —i 0 0
B
0
S -o
0
0
0
0
0
0
0 g
0
0
o
w
m
0 o
0
0
0
0 0
0
0
0
0 0
0
0 o
0
0 B
o —1
N 0
6
g
0
m
0-0
o g
o
0
3
0 x
3'
B
o
3 0
0
g
0
o
0
0
B
O
o
0
0
0
o (Q
0
B
0'
o
o
0
cn
3
0
0
0
0
m
B
0 0(00
0 0
0
0
0
0
0
O
7J U)
o
cn cn
m o
TJ
m
70
V)
o
z
z m r
GARDEN GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT OFFICE OF PERSONNEL SERVICES
APPENDIX E3
GARDEN GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT Office of Personnel Services
CLASSIFIED
District Fifteen-Hour Supervisory Development Stipend
purpose
To provide compensation for attendance at district-approved supervisory development activities up to a maximum of 15 hours annually.
guidelines
1.	Activities must occur outside the work day/work week/or work year.
2.	Compensation will be at the hourly rate of the employee's current Range and Step including longevity.
3.	Approved activities include:
a.	district/school sponsored workshops
b.	joint district and supervisors-sponsored workshops
c.	Pre-approved Orange County Department of Education Workshops
d.	Pre-approved workshops sponsored by educational professional organizations - i.e. National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE), California Math Council, Orange County Reading Association, California School Food Service Association, California Association of School Transportation Officials, California Association of School Business Officials
e.	Pre-approved job-related workshops offered by private organizations/corporations and consultants with GGUSD - i.e. McCrackens, Gonzalez, Math Their Way, Apple Computer, and miscellaneous vendors
PROCEDURE FOR ATTENDANCE VERIFICATION AND COMPENSATION
1.	For district and/or joint district/supervisors-sponsored workshops:
a.	sign in at the workshop.
b.	obtain a Workshop Attendance Verification Form.
2.	For any other approved conferences and workshops (see Guidelines #3c, d, and e above), obtain a Workshop Attendance Verification Form with pre-approval by department head. Proof of attendance and verification of hours must be obtained.
3.	The Classified Supervisory Development Hourly Payroll Time Report (Form #9703.62) with attached workshop attendance verification must be received by Personnel Services by the 10th of each month for payment the following month. Retain copies for your files.
4.	Requests should be submitted monthly.
5.	All requests must be received in the fiscal year that the workshop is given (July 1 - June 30).
OTHER SUGGESTIONS
1.	Keep a copy of all forms submitted for your personal records.
2.	A Supervisory Development Record is attached for your convenience. The use of this form is optional. Additional copies may be obtained from the school office. The district does not keep an individual record of your attendance at workshops. It is your responsibility to provide records for verifications, when necessary.
Revised 12/99
APPENDIX E4
GARDEN GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT Office of Personnel Services
WORKSHOP ATTENDANCE VERIFICATION FORM
Name of Workshop:  Date: 
Department Head Pre-Approval: ______________________________________________________________
Time:  Location: 
Presenter:	■___________________________________________________________________________
Name:	School:
APPENDIX E5
GARDEN GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT HOURLY PAYROLL TIME REPORT
of	thru IS* of	,	 month	month	year Name of Workshop(s)	□ □ □ 		 	□	Name	 Social Security No.	 School or Department	 Mgr/Pjeudo-Object Non-Supervisory Staff Development	0930/013823-2460 Supervisory Staff Development	0930/013823-2369 Food Service Worker Staff Development 0861/013530-2250 Food Services Manager Staff Development 0861/013530-2259 Food Services Supervisory Staff Develop. 0861/013530-2369					
		Date	Hours Worked	Date	Hours Worked	Date	Hours Worked
Affidavit:	16		27		7	
	17		28		8	
I hereby certify this time report is true and correct	18		29		9	
	19		30		10	
	20		31		11	
	21		1		12	
Employee Signature	22		2		13	
	23		3		14	
	24		4		15	
Personnel Director	25		5			
Form No. 9703.61 (Revised 11/00)	26		6			
Submit to the Office of Personnel Services
GARDEN GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
APPENDIX F
CLASSIFIED CONTRACT GRIEVANCE FORM
(Add additional sheets wherever necessary)
Name of Grlevant__________________________________________
Classification ____________________________________________
School/Dept. ______________________________________________
Date Formal Grievance Is Filed 
Date Grievance Occurred 
Agreement Article No. 
Section No. Page No. __________________
Date of Informal Conference
Description of Grievance:
__________________;____________________________________________Signature of Grievant_____________Date LEVEL I Date Received by Immediate Supervisor Response:
_____________________________________________________________________Signature of Immediate Supervisor Date
LEVEL 2 Position of Grlevant:
Date Received by Next Level Administrator _____________
Responsg:
LEVEL 3
Position of Grlevant:
Signature of Grievant	Date
Signature of Administrator Dale
Signature of Grievant
Date

Date Received by Director of Classified Personnel Response:
	Signature of Director Classified Personnel	Date
LEVEL 4		
Position of Grlevant:		
	Signature of Grievant	Date
Date Received by Superintendent		
Response:		
Signature of Superintendent Date
ARBITRATION: A separate written request must be submitted to the Board of Education asking for this step In grievance procedure.
Distribution: Grlevant; Supervisor: CSEA; Director of Classified Personnel
9701.116* (3/79; 12/98 Revised)
NOTES