Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Leon County School Board and Leon Classroom Teachers Association, Florida Education Association (FEA), National Education Association (NEA), (2004)
K#: 830789
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
2005-2006
Revisions to the 2004-2007
Collective Bargaining Contract between the
Leon County School Board
and the
Leon Classroom Teachers Association (Florida Education Association)
lEon couinv schools
TABLE OF CONTENTS ARTICLE	PAGE
III.	LCTA and Employee Rights and Responsibilities.............1
VII.	Professional Assignments	and Working Conditions...........6
VIII.	Class Size—Class Load....................................13
XVI.	Paid Leaves..............................................14
XXL	Compensation.............................................21
XXII.	Payroll Deductions.......................................31
XXIII.	Employee Work Year.......................................31
SIGNATURE SHEET.................................................34
APPENDICES
B	Salary Supplements.......................................35
D	2005-2006 Teacher Salary Schedule........................43
INDEX...........................................................44
Article III
LEON CLASSROOM TEACHERS ASSOCIATION AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
3.01 Employee Rights and Responsibilities.
A.	Employees covered by this Contract retain and reserve unto themselves all powers, rights, authority, duties, and responsibilities conferred upon and vested in them by the laws and constitution of the State of Florida and applicable rules and policies of the Board.
B.	The private and personal life of any employee is the concern of only that individual unless it interferes with the effective performance of his/her prescribed duties or involves behavior that falls within the scope of Section 1012.795, F.S., and/or related administrative rules and policies.
C.	With the approval of the site administrator or his/her designee, employees may leave the site when not engaged in performing assigned duties.
D.	When school is not in session, employees shall make arrangements with the site administrator to have access to the building.
E.	An employee shall not solicit support of a candidate seeking an elective office during regular work hours, nor shall an employee who seeks an elective office engage in any campaign activities that will interfere with the performance of his/her assigned duties.
F.	An employee shall maintain the right and responsibility to determine grades and other evaluations of students within the grading policies of the District, based upon professional judgment using available criteria pertinent to any given subject area or activity for which the employee is responsible.
G.	Individual employees will be provided notices of requests for information specifically about the employee from persons outside the District except for verification of employment, employment inquiry, salary, or other requests authorized by state or federal law.
H.	Each employee who resides in the District and is employed at least half time, or who resides outside the District and is employed full time, shall have the opportunity to emoll his/her child(ren) in the school of choice, subject to the following conditions:
1.	The student is eligible for admittance under the Board’s Pupil Progression Plan.
2.	Space is available at the student’s grade level.
3.	Transportation shall be provided by the student or parent.
4.	An employee must request a student reassignment under this section by March 1 of the school year prior to that in which the reassignment would take effect. An employee newly hired, transferred, or reassigned by the District must request a student reassignment within ten days of such employment action. A student reassignment granted under this section shall continue
until the employee timely requests an assignment of his/her child(ren) to a different school.
5.	Upon separation of the employee from employment with the Board, the student’s school assignment will be handled in the manner prescribed in Board Policy 3.02(2)(c) Change in Residence during School Year.
6.	The student shall be subject to the provision of Board Policy 3.02(14) Co-Curricular Activities.
7.	The enrollment of the student of an employee who resides outside the District shall be subject to Board Policy 3.02(2)(e) Out-of-County Students.
8.	In those instances when an employee has assigned duties beyond the regular teacher day, provisions must be made by the employee that would enable his/her child(ren) to leave the campus at the close of the regular student day.
9.	In no instance will the child(ren) interfere with the performance of the employee’s assigned duties.
3.02 Leon Classroom Teachers Association (LCTA) Rights and Responsibilities. A. Bulletin Boards. LCTA shall have the right to post notices to employees of activities and matters of concern of the Association on the bulletin board located in an area mutually agreed upon by LCTA and the site administrator.
B.	Communicating to Employees.
1.	LCTA shall have the right to use any intraschool communications system, mailbox information distribution system, bulletin boards, and the interschool mail and e-mail systems (excluding District e-mail address lists or listservs) for communications relevant to its status as collective bargaining agent. LCTA also may create listservs on District equipment for its use in communicating with employees so long as it is done on personal time rather than during the workday. These communication systems shall not be used to transmit or display materials the content of which relates to election campaigns for public office. In the event that the Board must collect postage for LCTA’s use of the District interschool mail system, LCTA will be responsible for the payment of all such postage and will cooperatively work out procedures for such payment.
2.	LCTA officials shall have the right to distribute information of concern to employees by way of the employee mailbox at that site. Such distribution shall be in compliance with procedures agreed to by the site administrator and the LCTA.
3.	With prior notice to the site administrator, the LCTA building representative will be given an opportunity to make announcements at faculty meetings. Immediately upon
2
adjournment of each faculty meeting, the LCTA building representative will be given an opportunity to meet with the faculty members.
C.	Information Provided to LCTA.
1.	Reports Provided to LCTA. Effective January 2006, the District shall provide LCTA without charge by the fifth of each month electronic access to a list of employees including the following information: name, employee identification number, degree, pay level, annual salary, grade level or subject area, type of certificate held, worksite, work telephone number, and payroll deduction for union dues on an Excel spreadsheet.
2.	LCTA Access to District Policies and Rules. LCTA shall have access to District policies and rules and Board agendas through the District website. LCTA shall be notified electronically of changes to such policies and rules when site administrators are notified of such changes and at least five days prior to their implementation, if feasible. If the LCTA site representative is not provided access to the District website by the site administrator, the site administrator shall provide the site representative with one copy of any District policy or rule requested by the site representative.
3.	LCTA Data Requests. The District agrees to provide LCTA, upon request, with information regarding employees not included in the reports described in paragraph 1 above as well as other identifiable public records in the custody of the District. If such records and information are included in existing documents, a copy of the documents will be provided without charge. If the information requested must be specially compiled in order to respond to the request, LCTA will be provided with an estimated charge for such compilation prior to the District proceeding with the compilation. Materials reasonably related to the negotiations process shall be provided without charge.
D.	Use of Facilities. LCTA shall be permitted use of site buildings, facilities, and equipment for meetings related to LCTA business provided details are arranged with the site administrator. A minimum rental charge may be assessed if, as a result of the meeting, the site incurs expenses for such use. Such charges shall be consistent with charges made to other organizations for such use.
E.	Release of the LCTA President for LCTA Activities.
1.	The parties agree that the provisions of the “Memorandum of Understanding Governing Release Time for LCTA President, Leon County Schools and Leon Classroom Teachers Association, 2004-2005” shall govern release of the LCTA President on a part-time basis for the 2004-2005 school year. Absent a written agreement by the parties to continue the part-time approach to 3
release time as described in the memorandum or to revise it, the provisions in paragraph 2 below shall govern release time for the LCTA President on a full-time basis for the 2005-2006 and subsequent years unless and until revised by the parties.
2.	The Board agrees to release the elected president of the Association from his/her regular duties to serve as LCTA president for the term of his/her presidency and to serve as fiscal agent for the payment of his/her salary, fringe benefits, summer pay, and fixed charges, provided the Association provides the Board 100 percent of any and all sums paid to or on behalf of the president. At the termination of the president’s final term, s/he is entitled to return to his/her previous school site or may accept employment elsewhere at his/her discretion. The Association president shall not earn sick leave or annual leave, nor be covered by the District Workers’ Compensation Insurance, during said term.
F.	Temporary Duty for LCTA Activities.
1.	The Board shall grant employees temporary duty each fiscal year as described below to carry out LCTA activities:
a.	Legislative Committee. A legislative committee comprised of ten members appointed by the LCTA president shall be allowed one day during the Legislative Session on Education’s Legislative Day to lobby for educational concerns benefiting the District.
b.	Florida Education Association Delegate Assembly. The Board agrees to grant two days of temporary duty to each elected delegate to attend the Annual Delegate Assembly of the Florida Education Association.
c.	Negotiations Committee. A list of members of the LCTA Negotiations Committee shall be provided to the Chief of Labor Relations by April 1 of each year. Up to eight members of such committee shall be provided temporary duty for negotiations that are scheduled during the school day.
d.	LCTA Representation on District Committees. LCTA representatives appointed to District committees under the provisions of Article XXVI shall be provided with temporary duty to attend the meetings of such committees scheduled during the school day.
2.	The use of temporary leave as described in paragraph Fl above shall be subject to the following conditions:
a.	An employee shall ordinarily provide the site administrator with a leave request form for the temporary duty described above a minimum of 48 hours prior to such duty;
4
b.	The site administrator shall approve such temporary duty unless s/he documents that the employee’s absence would significantly impede the operation of the work unit;
c.	No more than two employees may be absent from any faculty on any day on such temporary duty;
d.	No employee shall have a right to be granted more than ten days of temporary duty for LCTA activities during the fiscal year, except that participation on the School Improvement Central Council (see Section 25.05) shall not count against the ten days’ limitation. LCTA shall be responsible for monitoring the amount of temporary duty taken for LCTA activities.
e.	The Board shall not pay any expenses associated with the activities described in paragraph Fla, Legislative Committee, and paragraph Fib, FEA Delegate Assembly.
f.	Employees on temporary duty for LCTA activities retain all rights and responsibilities as employees but are not to be considered representatives of the District for activities undertaken on behalf of LCTA.
G.	Unpaid Leave for LCTA Activities. Each year of this Contract, representatives of the LCTA shall be granted up to a total of 50 days of unpaid leave to conduct LCTA business provided the following conditions are met:
1.	An employee shall ordinarily provide the site administrator with a leave request form for the unpaid leave a minimum of 48 hours prior to such leave;
2.	The site administrator shall approve the request for unpaid leave unless s/he documents that the employee’s absence would significantly impede the operation of the work unit;
3.	No more than two employees may be absent from any faculty on any day on such unpaid leave;
4.	No more than ten employees may be absent on such unpaid leave on any day;
5.	Except for the president of LCTA, no employee may be absent on unpaid leave for LCTA activities more than ten days during the fiscal year; and
6.	LCTA shall be responsible for monitoring the amount of unpaid leave taken for LCTA activities.
H.	During the regular workday, authorized representatives of LCTA may visit employees at the site, provided the authorized representatives report their presence to the site administrator or his/her designee and they do not interfere with, or disrupt, normal site operations. No authorized representative shall use this privilege except to conduct LCTA business.
5
I.	Exclusive LCTA Rights. The rights granted herein to LCTA shall not be granted or extended to any other organization claiming to, or attempting to, represent the members of the bargaining unit except as provided by law.
J.	LCTA agrees to hold the Board harmless for any claims arising from the exercise of its rights as described in this section, including the cost of defending such claims.
Article VII PROFESSIONAL ASSIGNMENTS AND WORKING CONDITIONS
7.01 Employee Workday and Workweek.
A.	Employee Workday - Standard and Extended.
1.	Standard Workday. The beginning and ending time of the employee workday may be varied to meet local needs. The standard workday for employees shall be seven consecutive hours plus 15 minutes; seven consecutive hours plus 20 minutes, effective January 2, 2006; and seven consecutive hours plus 25 minutes, effective the beginning of the 2006-2007 school year. The increase in the length of the standard workday for the 2006-2007 school year shall be postponed if the overall cost of teacher salary increases for that year is less than a four percent increase.
2.	Extended Workday. The School Board may adopt a written plan for an extended workday, beginning with the 2006-2007 school year, consisting of no more than eight hours and 30 minutes at one or more instructional sites. This plan shall include the educational purpose to be achieved by the extension of the workday. LCTA shall be provided with the proposed plan at least 60 calendar days prior to its consideration by the Board, and the District shall consult with LCTA prior to Board action regarding such plan. Employees at a school where such extended workday is to be implemented shall be provided with written notice that the District plans to implement an extended workday at their school no later than March 1 of the school year preceding the implementation of such extended workday. Employees at such school shall have input into their school’s plan through the procedures provided in Article 25 (School Improvement and Accountability and Shared Decision-Making) or through other appropriate teacher group(s) at the school (school improvement team, leadership team, etc.). Employees’ pay shall be increased proportionally consistent with the extended workday (see Section 21.03). A permanent employee assigned to a school that is to have an extended workday who desires to transfer to a school on a standard workday shall be provided with such an opportunity.
6
3.	The workday shall include:
a.	Lunch Period. Employees shall have a duty-free lunch period equal to the student lunch period in that building. For employees who volunteer or who are assigned to serve lunch duty, duty-free time equal to the duty-free lunch period shall be granted. Every effort shall be made to provide the equal duty-free time immediately before or immediately after the lunch duties. On planning days the lunch period shall be one hour.
b.	Planning/Preparation Period.
(1)	All elementary school employees in the District shall have at least five hours per week during the workday for the purpose of planning. Site administrators shall make reasonable efforts, consistent with staffing and program needs, to provide such employees with at least 40 consecutive minutes of planning time during the workday; a minimum of at least 30 consecutive minutes shall be provided. Site administrators shall also make reasonable efforts to provide employees at the same school with equal planning time. Planning for secondary teachers is covered in Section 8.02.
(2)	Elementary teachers may use the time during which their students are in special classes such as art, music, or physical education as planning/preparation/conference periods except for those unusual circumstances when a teacher is assigned to supervise students during such time.
(3)	When an employee does not receive his/her regular planning time as a result of a site administrator directing the employee to substitute for another employee’s assigned classroom duties, the employee shall receive compensatory time in accordance with Section 7.04 or the loss of planning time shall otherwise be provided for by the site administrator.
c.	Teaching Periods and Time for Other Duties. All duty time shall be considered contact time and shall not be part of the employee’s planning/preparation period.
B.	Employee Workweek. The workweek shall not exceed five consecutive working days, Monday through Friday, in a seven-day week, and includes those professional duties as prescribed in Section 7.02. This shall in no way prohibit assigning employees to nonconsecutive work hours if agreed to by the employee and the site administrator. The total amount of time in the employee’s workweek
7
shall consist of the number of minutes in the employee’s scheduled workday times five days.
7.02 Employee Assignments.
A.	General.
1.	All professional duties shall be assigned to employees in a fair and equitable manner.
2.	When an employee received prior permission to miss an assigned duty, the site administrator shall take no punitive action.
3.	The site administrator will provide employees on a regular basis through daily announcements and monthly school calendars with information regarding scheduled school events, District events, or other events of professional interest. Such information shall not constitute assignment of the employee to perform additional duties and shall not preclude the site administrator from scheduling additional duties or activities as the need arises.
B.	Assignments Within the Workday.
1.	Employee activity/duty assignments within the workday shall be determined by the site administrator, in cooperation with the Shared Decision-Making Council if such exists at the school.
2.	Employees will be given the opportunity to have input into developing their teaching schedules. The decision on the work schedule is, however, the site administrator’s.
3.	Every effort shall be made to give all employees notice of their assignments for the forthcoming semester as soon as possible. Assignments at the beginning of the school year shall be made in writing no later than the beginning of the preplanning period; such writing may be in the form of a duty roster or schedule. All other assignments shall be made in writing two weeks in advance of the scheduled duty. Assignments may be made later than these dates due to unforeseen circumstances.
4.	Assignments may be revised as needed.
C.	Assignments Beyond the Employee’s Workday and Workweek.
1.	No employee shall be required to stay beyond their scheduled workday or to participate in activities outside their scheduled workweek without being assigned a specific professional duty. Professional duties may include school and district level assignments such as job-related meetings, committees, conferences, PTA/PTO meetings, and supervisory assignments.
2.	These assignments shall not be used to assign employees to professional duties for which compensation is provided by supplement or extra pay for extra duty.
3.	Extracurricular Activities. Employee participation in extracurricular activities after the workday for which compensation is not provided shall be strictly voluntary.
8
D.	Compensated Assignments Beyond the Standard Work Schedule (Workday, Workweek, or Work Year).
1.	Assignments in addition to the employee’s work schedule during or beyond the school year for which compensation is provided including evening school, extra pay for extra duty assignments, and summer school shall not be obligatory but shall be with the consent of the employee, with the following exceptions:
a.	An employee may be appointed to an extended work year under the provisions of Section 23.01.
b.	An employee may be appointed to an extended workday under the provisions of Section 7.01A2.
c.	The District also may require employees to perform additional compensated assignments beyond the work year under the following conditions: (a) Such assignments are incident to implementation of, or compliance with, state or federal mandates; (b) The assignments do not extend beyond five days; and (c) Written notice is provided to employees no fewer than 20 days prior to the final instructional day of the employee work year. LCTA shall be notified of such proposed assignments at least 30 days prior to the final instructional day of the work year and shall be provided the opportunity to review such proposed assignment with the principal, Executive Director, and Chief of Labor Relations to ensure compliance with these conditions. Additionally, an employee may be exempted from participating in such assignments upon submitting a timely request for such exemption.
7.03 In-Service Activities.
A.	In-service activities are designed to improve the professional growth of all employees. In-service attendance shall be voluntary unless it is:
Mandated by the District, State government, or Federal government;
Required by the site administrator to meet a need for professional growth as documented in the Individual Professional Development Plan, the School Improvement Plan, or in other appropriate documents; or
Mandated as a condition of employment.
B.	When funding is available through grants and special entitlements for employee training, employees shall be paid an $18 per hour stipend for attending mandated in-service training beyond the contractual teaching day. The District shall provide required in-service training through the Training and Education Center at no cost to the employee.
9
C.	In-service funds shall be placed in each cost center’s budget to support individual employee training requests and other school-based inservice.
D.	No more than two half days of District-wide in-service, as authorized by the Superintendent, shall be held on designated planning days.
7.04 Compensatory Time. Compensatory time shall be granted when the following provisions are met.
A.	Earning of Compensatory Time.
1.	Compensatory time shall be earned only for duties assigned specifically in advance by the site administrator beyond the contractual teaching day as required or essential to the stated objectives of a course or program.
2.	Compensatory time shall not be accrued and available for use until the assignment for which the time is provided has been completed.
3.	The nature of employee assignments beyond the scheduled workday, for which compensatory time will be granted, shall be determined by the site administrator in cooperation with the Shared Decision-Making Council if such exists at the school, consistent with the provisions of this Contract. Assignments may be revised as needed.
4.	Compensatory time shall not be earned for activities for which additional compensation is provided (e.g., supplements for coaching or cheerleading) or for those that are ordinarily encompassed within an employee’s responsibilities as a salaried professional such as faculty meetings, parent-teacher organization meetings and activities, and school open houses.
B.	Use of Compensatory Time.
1.	Previously earned compensatory time may only be used with the prior approval of the site administrator on planning days, including pre- and postplanning nonstudent days, and at the end of the regular school day after student hours or at such other times as would not require a substitute. The site administrator shall make a reasonable effort to allow employees to use compensatory time during the school year.
2.	All unused compensatory time will lapse at the end of the annual employee contract year or upon the resignation of the employee.
3.	No monetary reimbursement shall be awarded for compensatory time.
C.	Within the first 30 days of the employee contract year, each site administrator shall provide to employees at the site a copy of the plan for implementing compensatory time at that site that is consistent with the provisions of this section. Such plan shall be developed in cooperation with the Shared Decision-Making Council if such exists at the site.
10
7.05 Faculty Meetings.
A.	Faculty meetings shall be limited to one per month scheduled in advance; however, the Shared Decision-Making Council may call additional meetings. Additional meetings also may be called at the discretion of the site administrator to meet the critical needs of the school or District.
B.	No required District-level meeting may extend more than 2!/2 hours beyond the student day. A 72-hour notice shall be provided for any required meeting which extends beyond the standard or extended workday by more than one-half hour, but any required meeting for which the 72 hours notice has not been provided may be extended beyond the additional one-half hour by majority vote of the employees in attendance.
C.	A site administrator may require attendance at such meetings up to these limits.
7.06 Rules and Policies.
A.	Employees shall comply with rules and policies adopted by the Board or the Superintendent and perform all duties assigned by their immediate administrative supervisor.
B.	Rules or policies adopted, prescribed, or formulated by the Board or Superintendent shall be made available to employees through the District website. Employees shall be notified by the site administrator or immediate supervisor of school policies and access to such policies shall be made available to employees in a central location.
7.07 School Facilities.
A.	A private room shall be made available in each school for necessary employee conferences after proper arrangements have been made.
B.	Telephone facilities will be available to employees in each school and facility for school and/or personal use. When an employee needs to make a telephone call relating to school business during which confidential information will be discussed, the site administrator will make efforts to ensure the privacy of the call.
C.	The Board agrees to make a lounge available for employees in each school.
D.	The Board agrees to make private restroom facilities available for the use of the faculty and staff where possible.
E.	The District shall provide regular maintenance and inspection of classrooms and other learning areas of each school or site to maintain such facilities in a clean condition and in compliance with applicable safety and health laws, rules, and regulations.
F.	Classrooms in which classes are being held shall be free of unnecessary interruptions by maintenance, custodial, or construction workers. Disruptions through the intercommunication system and other disturbances shall be kept to a minimum.
11
G.	When making an assignment for vacant, constantly assigned work areas, priority consideration shall first be given to any employee who has worked at the site for one or more years without having constantly assigned space. This assignment shall not have a negative impact on specific programs.
H.	Employees shall be given all keys or other access devices necessary to perform their teaching duties; however, the employees shall accept the responsibility for possession of such keys and their operation of security systems in keeping with the procedures as outlined in policy or regulation.
7.08 Health and Safety.
A.	The District shall provide, in all appropriate classrooms, safety equipment and materials required by state standards.
B.	The site administrator shall make his/her building and grounds as safe as possible and shall be responsible for enforcing all state statutes and mles adopted by the Board. Any employee whose physical safety is threatened, either orally or in writing, shall report the occurrence in writing to the site administrator or his/her supervisor within 24 hours. The site administrator or supervisor shall take appropriate action.
C.	Employees shall promptly report potentially unsafe facility conditions in the classroom or other school facility to their site administrator on appropriate forms as provided. The site administrator will promptly investigate and attempt to have corrected conditions that s/he determines to be hazardous or potentially dangerous. The site administrator shall reply to the concern in writing if the employee’s concern is communicated in writing. LCTA may schedule a meeting with site and District representatives under the provisions of Section 2.02 if significant safety and health issues at a site have not been addressed to the satisfaction of employees within a reasonable time after being reported in writing to the site administrator.
D.	Employees shall not be required to perform tasks that would endanger their health or safety. In an emergency, employees shall take necessary action to provide for the safety of themselves and their students and, as soon as possible, advise the site administrator of the situation.
E.	Employees shall not be required to search students but shall promptly report suspicious circumstances to the site administrator for prompt investigation and appropriate response.
7.09 Classroom Observations. Observations of an employee’s class by persons other than school personnel shall be allowed only after consent has been granted by the site administrator and the employee has either consented or been informed at least 24 hours in advance.
12
7.10	Employees will be expected to exercise reasonable control, under the direction of the site administrator, of textbooks, supplies, or equipment assigned to them.
7.11	Supervisory duties for employees who serve two or more schools shall be prorated to the fractional equivalent of employment in each school.
7.12	Teachers shall have a minimum of two working days at the end of each grading period to submit grades. The final grading period of the year shall be excluded from the above provision.
7.13	A student’s lEP/Accommodation Plan shall be taken into consideration in making decisions regarding placement of a student with a disability into a classroom. Individual school sites shall have the flexibility to make sitebased decisions regarding implementation of an inclusion model, provided that the implementation is consistent with the student’s lEP/Accommodation Plan. It shall be the joint responsibility of the school site and the District to determine and provide for the training needs of employees assigned to teach in an inclusion model. Employees who have medically fragile students in their classroom should have appropriately trained personnel accessible at all times. Site administrators should make a reasonable effort to allow employees who prefer working in the inclusive environment to have the first opportunity for the assignment. Site administrators shall keep class size in an inclusion model as small as possible consistent with staffing and program needs.
7.14	Site administrators shall make a reasonable effort, consistent with staffing and program needs, to accommodate any significant increase in an employee’s workload occasioned by the preparation of lEPs or AIPs.
Article VIII
CLASS SIZE - CLASS LOAD
8.0	1 Class size shall not be used as a punitive measure against an employee. Within a given site, the administration shall make a reasonable effort, consistent with considerations of scheduling, curriculum, and student needs and preferences, to balance the load between employees teaching identical courses.
8.0	2 Any high school or middle school employee whose assignment consists primarily of student instruction shall have an instructional supervisory load during the student day that does not exceed five hours and five minutes of pupil-teacher contact time effective January 2, 2006, and five hours and ten minutes of pupil-teacher contact time effective the beginning of the 2006-2007 school year, that includes a preparation/conference period, and has no more than three different course preparations. Other high school and middle school employees whose assignments do not consist primarily of instruction (such as guidance counselors and media specialists) shall be provided the opportunity in their normal workday to schedule time in which interaction with students and parents is limited to facilitate planning and 13
preparation. Supervised study periods (study halls) or other supervisory assignments shall be considered a part of the instructional supervisory load except where such assignments constitute the majority of the employee’s assigned duties. Individual employees may agree in writing to instructional supervisory loads that differ from those above.
8.03 Elementary art, music, and P.E. employees shall not be required to teach more than eight instructional periods per day. In addition, reasonable travel time shall be included in the scheduling of instructional periods which shall not be considered as planning time.
8.04 All elementary instructional employees shall have no more than 25 clock hours of pupil-contact teaching assignments per week, not including individual student conferences that may be scheduled by the employee on relief periods.
8.05 When an employee believes that class size is a problem in his/her class, or has a concern regarding the number of course preparations (see Section 8.02 above), the employee shall communicate the concern to the site administrator. Upon request, the site administrator and employee shall meet to discuss the concern and, if appropriate, explore alternative solutions. If the concerns of the employee are not addressed to his/her satisfaction, the employee may request in writing a meeting with the site administrator and a district-level administrator; the employee may also request that an LCTA representative be present at the meeting. The meeting shall be scheduled within five days of the written request. The site administrator will forward the decision to the employee within five days of the meeting.
Article XVI
PAID LEAVES
Sick Leave
16.01 District Sick Leave Credit and Accrual.
A.	Each regular full-time employee, as defined in paragraph D below shall be credited with four days of sick leave as of the first day of employment of each current year and, thereafter, credited with one additional day of sick leave at the end of each full calendar month of employment up to an annual total of one day of sick leave for each month of employment.
B.	An eligible employee, as defined in paragraph D below who is employed on or before the 15th day of the month will be credited with a day of sick leave at the end of the month. An employee who terminates on or before the 15th day of the month will not be credited with a day of sick leave for that month.
C.	If an employee terminates from the District prior to earning sick leave days that have been used, a deduction will be made from his/her final check for the overused sick leave.
14
D.	A regular employee must work at least 50 percent of the hours required for full-time employment in order to accrue or use sick leave.
E.	There is no limit to the number of sick leave days an employee may accrue.
16.02 Employees may be credited with sick leave earned while employed by a State of Florida agency, a Florida public university, or a Florida district school board, provided at least one-half of the leave is established while employed by the Leon County School District. Effective with the 2000-2001 school year, sick leave may only be transferred to the Leon District if a written request for such transfer is submitted to the District within 90 calendar days of a person’s initial employment with the District or within 90 calendar days of such sick leave becoming available for transfer. New employees shall be provided written notification of this deadline.
16.03 Employees must have earned the sick leave to be credited under the provisions of Section 16.01 in an instructional capacity.
16.04 A person who resigns and returns to active employment will be able to pick up accrued days earned in previous employment with the Board and carry the accrued days forward, provided the person has not been paid for these days or has had the days transferred to another agency.
16.05 Payment for Accumulated Sick Leave.
A.	At and after the normal retirement date or at the time of disability retirement, an employee, or his/her beneficiary if service is terminated by death, will receive terminal pay for accumulated sick leave pursuant to the following during:
The first three years of service, the daily rate of pay multiplied by 35 percent times the number of days of accumulated sick leave. The next three years of service, the daily rate of pay multiplied by 40 percent times the number of days of accumulated sick leave. The next three years of service, the daily rate of pay multiplied by 45 percent times the number of days of accumulated sick leave. The next three years of service, the daily rate of pay multiplied by 50 percent times the number of days of accumulated sick leave. And after the 13th year of service, the daily rate of pay multiplied by 100 percent times the number of days of accumulated sick leave.
For the purpose of this section, the phrase “normal retirement date” shall mean retirement as defined in Sections 121.021(29) or 238.07(2)(e)l and (f), F.S. (2000).
B.	Employees eligible to receive terminal leave pay, as provided above, shall participate in the Board-approved 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan effective June 1, 2004, subject to a minimum contribution level established by the Board in consultation with LCTA. The 401(a) Qualified Retirement Plan allows participating employees to defer federal income tax and permanently avoid the payment of Social 15
Security tax and Medicare tax on eligible plan contributions of terminal sick leave payout. Participating employees who wish to withdraw their funds under conditions that subject the funds to the early withdrawal penalty assessed by the Internal Revenue Service will be reimbursed a 2.35 percent portion of such ten percent penalty upon application to the District pursuant to District procedures for such reimbursement.
C.	An employee who participates in the Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP) will receive pay for accumulated sick leave as indicated in paragraph A above. The rate of pay for such leave shall be based upon the base salary rate of the employee at the time payment occurs. Such leave will be paid in equal annual installments in each of the years in DROP. The first payment will be made following receipt of the audited leave record from the end of the month immediately prior to entering DROP. Subsequent payments will be made following receipt of the audited leave record from the end of the month immediately prior to the retirement (DROP) anniversary date. Actual dates of these payments will depend upon the date the audited leave records become available.
D.	An employee who begins participation in DROP, but elects to cancel DROP shall, within six months of the DROP cancellation, be required to repay the Board all sick leave pay previously received as part of DROP. Repayment of such sick leave will be deducted from the individual’s six salary payments immediately following notification of termination of DROP. Repaid sick leave time will be returned to the account of the employee as if there had been no DROP participation.
E.	Employees whose DROP is extended as provided in Section 121.091(13), F.S., shall be paid accumulated sick leave as provided above for the first 60 months of DROP. Leave accrued during the extended DROP shall be paid at the end of each annual DROP extension.
16.06 Requesting and Granting of Sick Leave.
A.	Except in the case of unexpected illness where the employee must be absent prior to receiving such approval, an employee’s request for sick leave shall be submitted to the principal/site administrator or designee at least two days prior to the proposed beginning date of the leave and approved prior to the leave being taken. When prior approval cannot be obtained due to unexpected illness, the employee shall notify the principal/site administrator or designee of his/her absence as soon as possible but not later than one hour and 30 minutes prior to the beginning of the employee’s workday except where unusual and compelling circumstances warrant a shorter period of notice. The employee shall submit the required leave form, to be provided by the site administrator or designee, within three days following the 16
employee’s return from such leave (or sooner if necessitated by a payroll deadline).
B.	The site administrator or designee is responsible for securing all substitutes for an employee. Substitutes shall be expected to perform all duties normally performed by the employee who is absent.
C.	If the period of absence due to illness exceeds ten days, the employee shall, upon request, submit completed leave request forms provided by the principal/site administrator as soon as possible and prior to his/her return to work and, upon request, shall also submit a written statement from the employee’s medical provider as described in Section 16.07 below.
D.	Sick leave shall be granted for illness of self or any immediate member of the family. Immediate members of the family shall be interpreted to include: spouse, grandparents, parents, sisters, brothers, children and grandchildren of both the employee and the spouse of the employee, and any dependent who resides with the employee’s household. Sick leave shall also be granted for illness connected to or resulting from pregnancy and for death or serious illness of any member of the larger family group.
16.07 Medical Information. An employee may be required to be certified by a physician that the employee is capable of safely performing the duties required by the employee’s position. An employee may also be required to provide information from his/her medical provider regarding the employee’s medical condition and other medical information relevant to the District’s staffing needs and its obligations under District leave policies and state and federal laws governing workplace accommodations for physical or mental impairments or disabilities. Such information may also be requested in conjunction with the verification described in Section 16.21 below and absence due to illness under Section 16.06C above.
16.08 Sick Leave Transfer to a Family Member. An employee may transfer earned sick leave to a spouse, sister, brother, parent, or child who is also employed by the District under the provisions of Board Policy 2.14(7) and related procedures.
Personal and Emergency Leave
16.09 An employee may use up to six days a year of accrued sick leave for personal reasons. No more than three days of such personal charged to sick leave may be used consecutively; however the site administrator may approve more than three days in unusual and compelling personal circumstances. A request for personal leave need not be granted when 15 percent or more of the total number of employees in a cost center or similar unit (but no less than one employee) have been authorized to be absent, or would be authorized to be absent as a result of granting such a request, on the day(s) that the personal leave is requested. In applying this
17
provision, leave requests that have already been approved shall ordinarily take priority over those submitted at a later date.
16.10	When using up to three days of sick leave for personal reasons, the employee shall file the leave request with his/her supervisor two days before the leave is to begin. When requesting the use of more than three consecutive days of such leave under the provisions of Section 16.09, the employee shall file the leave request at least five days before the leave is to begin.
16.11	Sick leave for emergency shall be limited to two days per year and is applicable only in bona fide emergency situations where the employee could not foresee the need to be absent at least 24 hours in advance. Such leave shall be counted against the six days personal charged to sick leave described in Section 16.09 unless the employee has exhausted such personal leave at the time of the emergency, in which case it shall be charged directly to sick leave.
16.12	Workers’ Compensation - Leave and Benefits.
A.	An employee unable to perform any duties as a result of an injury received in the course and scope of employment as defined in Section 440.02, F.S., shall receive up to 15 days of injury-in-line-of-duty leave in lieu of receipt of Workers’ Compensation indemnity benefits on the condition that the employee complies with the provisions in the following paragraphs. Such leave shall not reduce the employee’s accumulated leave. As an exception to the 15 days leave limitation, an employee whose injury results from an act of violence inflicted upon him/her by a student or parent in the course and scope of employment shall receive up to 90 days of injury-in-line-of-duty leave.
B.	In the event of an injury as described in paragraph A, the employee shall immediately notify the site administrator or their designee of the injury and complete a written leave request and Notice of Injury form with the Risk Management Office. In an emergency, the Notice of Injury and written leave request shall be provided as soon as the employee is medically capable to do so. Risk Management Office staff shall come to the worksite or to a medical facility to facilitate the employee’s timely completion of the Notice of Injury form when feasible. The employee shall also, as soon as possible, provide a doctor’s certificate from a medical provider approved by the District stating that the injury was, in his/her opinion, sustained or contracted during the course of employment. A list of currently approved medical providers shall be maintained at each worksite.
C.	If an employee is unable to resume duties at the end of a 15-day (or 90 days) period of injury-in-line-of-duty leave, such leave shall also be used for that portion of the employee’s contracted employment period compensated from Workers’ Compensation indemnity benefits. The employee may also, while in this status, use any accrued leave to 18
supplement Workers’ Compensation indemnity benefits to remain in pay status as it existed prior to the injury. Under no circumstances shall an employee be entitled to receive combined benefits from the District and Workers’ Compensation exceeding 100 percent of the employee’s average weekly salary. The employee also shall not accumulate leave on that portion of salary received through the provisions of Workers’ Compensation.
D.	The Board may grant, at its sole discretion, additional injury-in-line-of-duty leave to an employee who is unable to resume duties and who has no accrued leave with which to supplement Workers’ Compensation indemnity benefits as described in paragraph C above. Written application for such additional leave shall be made through the Superintendent.
E.	An employee (or representative) claiming an injury in the course and scope of employment shall follow to the best of his/her ability the treating physician’s instructions and provide timely copies of treatment records and correspondence provided by the physician, cooperate with any assigned rehabilitation or vocational personnel, and cooperate with Board staff in regard to employment placement. Employment placement shall include light-duty assignments and any other appropriate efforts to return the employee to active duty within physical restrictions assigned by the authorized physician.
16.13	Leave for Contracting Communicable Disease at the Worksite.
A.	An employee who is unable to perform his/her assigned duties because s/he has contracted a communicable disease that is substantially likely to have been contracted at his/her worksite shall be authorized to receive up to three days of leave per fiscal year for such illness.
B.	In order to qualify for this leave, the following conditions shall be met: 1. The employee has fded a claim with the site administrator on the appropriate form within three days upon return to work;
2.	The site administrator must attach a statement to the leave form providing information in support of his/her determination that there is a substantial likelihood that the employee’s disease was contracted at the worksite (the site administrator may require that the employee provide a doctor’s certificate as part of such supporting information). In this regard, the disease must be one that is ordinarily transmitted in a densely populated setting such as a school (examples include pink eye, ringworm, and lice) and for which the incidence of contagion at the school is considerably higher than in the general population at the time the disease is contracted. The common cold and influenza are not included among the contagious diseases for which this leave is granted; and
3.	The employee is not eligible to receive Workers’ Compensation benefits.
19
C.	Leave provided under this section is not cumulative.
16.14	Bereavement Leave
A.	All full-time employees who have completed a six-month probationary period in their appointed position shall, upon a request submitted in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.22, be credited with three days bereavement leave in the event of a death in their immediate family. Immediate family is defined as a spouse, parent, sibling, child, grandparents, grandchild, or in-law or step-relative counterparts.
B.	Employees will be credited with the three days paid bereavement leave on a fiscal year basis. Bereavement leave is not cumulative. An employee may use up to three days of other leave they may have accrued (sick or personal) for one or more subsequent deaths in their immediate family if they have already exhausted their three days bereavement leave during a year. Employees will not be paid bereavement leave for days not scheduled to work (i.e., sick leave, annual leave, leave without pay). Employees are required to provide a copy of the obituary or other satisfactory document to be attached to the leave request form. Bereavement leave ordinarily is to be used within 20 days of the death of the family member, unless the employee documents a legitimate reason to extend this period.
16.15	Military Leave. Regular full-time employees who are members of the reserve in the United States Armed Forces or members of the National Guard or Naval Service shall receive remuneration up to a maximum of 17 days if ordered by the Armed Services or National Guard to report for temporary duty. As a condition of granting military leave, the employee must provide certification from the military unit that equivalent training could not be performed during the employee’s nonwork time. At the sole discretion of the Board, employees who are called by the President to active military service may be granted 13 additional paid leave days up to a maximum of 30 days. For the purpose of administration of military leave, a work year shall be defined as beginning October 1 and ending September 30 of the following year.
16.16	Court Appearances. An employee shall be granted full pay and benefits for appearance in court under the following circumstances:
Summoned to appear as a juror.
Summoned to appear as a defendant or a witness in an action arising out of and in the course of his/her employment with the School Board. Summoned to appear as a witness in any civil or criminal action in which the employee is not the defendant or the plaintiff.
Any payments received from the court for such appearances may be retained by the employee. An employee dismissed from jury duty or excused from the stand prior to 11 a.m. shall return to work that day.
16.17	Temporary Duty. Temporary duty assignments are short-term absences approved by the immediate supervisor away from an employee’s normal 20
work location on a professional school-related activity. These activities include such things as field trips, representing Leon County Schools at a multidistrict meeting, or assisting other school districts in evaluations or plant surveys. During nonstudent contact time, employees with children/wards will be given temporary duty for parent conferences. Temporary duty of up to three days shall also be provided to an applicant for National Board for Professional Teaching Standards certification to assist the applicant in fulfilling program requirements.
16.18	Absence during preschool and postschool planning for the purpose of attending summer school will be considered under this section.
16.19	Leon District will not pay for any trip that is paid for by another organization.
16.20	The employee shall be responsible for submitting the appropriate form to the immediate supervisor in a timely fashion.
16.21	Verification of Absence. The Superintendent or the supervisor of the employee may require a physician’s or other verification as to an employee’s claimed reason for absence in any situation in which it is believed that no valid grounds exist for the employee’s claim for absence or when an employee has received prior written notice of excessive absenteeism. Such verification shall be provided as soon as possible after the official request.
16.22	Abandonment of Position. An employee who is absent from the workplace for three or more consecutive days without authorized leave shall be considered to have abandoned his/her position and resigned from the District.
16.23	Paid Holidays. Employees who are not in paid status on the day preceding a holiday will not receive pay for the holiday period.
16.24	Instructional Continuity - Excessive Absence. A continued pattern of absence for any reason that affects an employee’s ability to provide the necessary continuity of instruction may result in District personnel action including but not limited to use of the discipline or evaluation process.
Article XXI COMPENSATION
21.01 Employee Salaries for the 2005-2006 School Year.
A.	The 2005-2006 annual salary rate of employees shall be as described in the 2005-2006 salary schedule (Appendix D). The increases represented by this schedule shall be effective at the beginning of the employee’s 2005-2006 school year appointment.
B.	If any portion of the salary increases described in paragraph A above is paid retroactively, such retroactive pay shall be provided only to those employees employed by the Board on the day following the date this Contract is ratified by the Board and then only to the extent the employees were employed during the period of retroactivity.
21
21.02 Employee Hourly Rate of Pay.
A.	An employee’s hourly rate of pay shall be determined by dividing the employee’s annual salary for a standard workday and work year, as stated on the teacher salary schedule, by the number of hours in the standard work year. The hours in the standard work year used for this calculation shall be as follows: 1437 hours, effective January 2, 2006, and 1454 horns, effective the beginning of the 2006-07 school year. The increases in the length of the standard workday for the 2006-2007 school year shall be postponed if the overall cost of teacher salary increases for that year is less than a four percent increase (see Section 7.01 Al).
B.	The hourly rate of pay shall be paid to employees under the following circumstances:
1.	Additional Instructional Responsibilities. Employees who agree to be assigned to teach more than the maximum instructional contact hours as described in Article 8 shall be paid at their regular hourly rate for the additional assigned teaching time. Such employees shall be paid for an additional hour for an additional period of assigned instruction. Such employees shall be provided planning time which is equivalent in length to that provided to other employees at the site and which shall be worked within an employee’s extended day.
2.	Additional Noninstructional Responsibilities. Employees may agree to be assigned noninstructional responsibilities that extend beyond the standard workday. The time assigned for such responsibilities shall be determined by the site administrator or the District and the employee shall be paid for the additional assigned time at their regular hourly rate.
3.	Unpaid Leave. Loss of pay for personnel during the regular school term for daily absences not otherwise covered by provisions in this Contract shall be made at their regular hourly rate of pay.
4.	Summer School, Evening School, Other Programs. Employees employed in summer school, evening school, and/or other programs whose compensation rate is not stated in Article XXI shall be paid at their regular hourly rate of pay. All employees appointed hourly-as-needed for less than 17.5 hours per week shall be paid up to a maximum of step six on the teacher salary schedule. All employees appointed hourly-as-needed for 17.5 or more horns per week shall be paid up to a maximum step seven on the teacher salary schedule.
5.	Development of Curriculum and Instructional Materials. Employees whose services are utilized in the design and/or development of curriculum and instructional materials to 22
include diagnostic and/or evaluative assessment instruments shall be compensated at their regular hourly rate.
21.	03 An employee whose regular contractual duties are extended beyond the employee’s regular appointed work year, or who is appointed to an extended work year as described in Section 23.01, shall be paid at their daily rate of pay for each additional day of such extended duties (at the employee’s regular annual contract salary, as stated on the teacher salary schedule, divided by the number of days in the standard work year [see Section 23.01]).
21.	04 Compensation for Summer School, Evening School, Other Programs, Hourly-as-Needed, and Annual Program-Based Instructional Employees. A. Full-time employees employed in programs (such as Lively Technical School) which continue their program beyond the regular school year will, during the summer, receive planning and lunch time consistent with the regular program.
B.	Hourly-as-Needed Instructional Personnel.
1.	Hourly-as-needed instructional employees who teach fewer than an average of 17.5 hours a week over the course of an academic term shall not receive benefits, nor shall such employees be provided planning time or duty-free lunch.
2.	Time accrued in hourly-as-needed instructional employment shall not be counted for the purpose of acquiring a professional services contract.
3.	Instructional employees appointed hourly-as-needed as described in this section shall be paid up to the level on the teacher salary schedule commensurate with six years teaching service.
4.	Regular full-time employees who are also employed in an hourly-as-needed capacity shall not accrue additional benefits in that capacity except that social security and retirement benefits shall be paid on the compensation provided to such employee in their hourly-as-needed status.
C.	Annual Program-Based Instructional Employees.
1.	Annual program-based instructional employees who are appointed for a school year and who teach an average of at least 17.5 hours per week over the course of an academic term but do not qualify as regular instructional employees under the provisions of paragraph D below are eligible for retirement and social security benefits and may participate in a health care program, group term life insurance, dental care program, vision care program, tax-deferred annuity program, and cancer/intensive care program. If participating in the health care program, such employees shall receive the negotiated Board contribution toward their health insurance. These employees 23
will not be eligible for sick leave nor shall such employees be provided planning time or duty-free lunch.
2.	Time accrued as an annual program-based instructional employee shall not be counted for the purpose of acquiring a professional services contract.
3.	Annual program-based instructional employees appointed as described in this section shall be paid up to the level on the teacher salary schedule commensurate with seven years teaching service.
D.	Beginning with the 1996-97 school year, all positions that have scheduled contact of 25 horns or more per week for more than half of the school year, with an average daily attendance of 25 or more, shall become regular full-time instructional employees.
21.05 Compensation for employees whose training services are utilized by the Teacher Education Center or other such similar programs in the District shall be paid $25 per hour. For training delivered on nonschool hours, preparation time on nonschool hours equal to the presentation time may be compensated at the rate of $25 per hour when release time is not provided during the contract day.
Employees requested to provide in-service training programs during the school day shall be given release time for such presentations and preparation time equal to the presentation period. If release time is not provided, the employee shall be compensated at his/her hourly rate for preparation time equal to the presentation time.
21.06 Compensation at the rate of $18 per hour will be provided to employees who are approved to participate in voluntary staff development activities for which in-service credit is awarded, subject to the availability of funding.
21.07 Employees are to be given credit for previous experience according to the following plan and consistent with the provisions of the negotiated salary schedule:
A. Beginning with the 1996-97 school year, credit for one year’s experience shall be given for each year of teaching or administrative experience in any state or regionally accredited public school (K-12), junior or community college, or university (graduate assistant experience shall not be counted). Credit shall also be given for teaching or administrative experience in schools outside the U.S., including a U.S. government-sponsored military base school, upon a determination by the District that such schools have the equivalent of state or regional accreditation. The affected employee shall be responsible for providing the District with the necessary documentation of such experience and the determination of the District shall be final.
24
B.	Credit for up to three years of wartime military experience or three years of instructional experience in the military related to the employee’s instructional assignment shall be granted to employees hired after July 1, 1979. Wartime military experience shall be as defined in Sections 238.06 and 121.021(20), F.S. Employees receiving or eligible to receive credit for military experience prior to July 1, 1979, shall receive such credit.
C.	Credit for one year’s experience is to be given for a major portion of a year’s work (i.e., !4 plus one day). Out-of-state and Florida experience which occurs during the same school year may be combined.
D.	Part-time employees will receive credit for one year’s experience when working over 50 percent of the hours required for full-time employees (including sick leave); however, only one year of service may be earned during one school year.
E.	Credit for one year’s experience shall be given for each year of verified work experience above that required for vocational certification. For full-time employees appointed after August 1, 2002, the maximum credit given under this provision is ten years.
F.	The president of the LCTA shall be granted credit on the salary schedule for years served in that office.
G.	Private School Experience Credit.
1.	Beginning with the 2005-2006 school year, and subject to the provisions in paragraphs 2, 3, and 4, credit is allowed for teaching experience at private schools or institutions that have Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, Western Association of Schools and Colleges, Northwestern Association of Schools and Colleges, North Central Association of Schools and Colleges, New England Association of Schools and Colleges, or Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools accreditation. Credit shall also be allowed for certified teaching experience at schools or institutions with accreditation from agencies equivalent to that provided by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools such as the National Academy of Early Childhood Programs, the Florida Council of Independent Schools, the Association of Independent Schools of Florida, the Florida Catholic Conference, and the Florida Association of Christian Colleges and Schools.
2.	Credit shall be awarded to employees who held a valid Florida Teacher’s Certificate while employed in the appropriate area with an accredited Florida private school.
3.	Beginning with the 2005-2006 school year, teachers who did not hold a valid Florida Teacher’s Certificate while employed in a private school or institution shall be awarded credit for each 25
year of private school teaching experience earned in the state of Florida or outside the state, after satisfying the following conditions.
a.	The employee must establish eligibility for and be granted a Florida Teacher’s Certificate.
b.	The employee must complete one year of satisfactory District teaching service and be reappointed to a District instructional position for the following year.
c.	The employee must have held a Bachelor’s degree during the private school teaching experience.
d.	Credit will be awarded only for those years of teaching experience during which a private school or institution was accredited by an agency recognized in paragraph 1.
An employee seeking credit for private school teaching experience under this section is responsible for providing all documentation required in order to verify that the experience meets the conditions described herein.
4.	Experience credit granted under this section, and any accompanying salary increase, will be awarded effective the beginning of the contract year after which the employee satisfies all conditions in sections a through d but not before the beginning of the 2006-2007 school year.
H.	Beginning with the 1989-90 school year, credit shall be allowed for experience as a psychologist, social worker, counselor, and for exceptional student education personnel, in public or private state-accredited hospitals, state-certified group homes for children or adults, or public or private rehabilitation centers, mental health institutes, or other similar organizations providing Medicare or Medicaid-approved services to children or adults, as well as in the Departments of Education and Children and Family Services or equivalent state or federal agencies. Such credit shall also be allowed for experience as a speech-language pathologist in the referenced organizations, beginning with the 2004-05 school year.
I.	Beginning with the 2000-2001 school year, credit may be provided for professional experience in the field of education other than that described elsewhere in this section. Such experience gained from employment in areas such as educational materials development and education publishing, or with professional education organizations or education agencies or institutions, shall be evaluated by the District for its comparability to experience for which credit is granted under other provisions of this section.
21.08 Adjustments to higher salary levels shall be made only upon the receipt of an official transcript signifying the award of the advanced degree from an institution of higher education that has Southern Association of 26
Colleges and Schools, Western Association of Schools and Colleges, Northwestern Association of Schools and Colleges, North Central Association of Schools and Colleges, New England Association of Schools and Colleges, or Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools accreditation, or the verification of appropriate experience. Salary adjustments associated with the receipt of such an official transcript or written verification of appropriate experience shall be effective retroactive to the beginning date of an employee’s appointment for the academic year in which the transcript or verification is received by the Personnel Office, or to the date on which the advanced degree is awarded or the appropriate experience is completed, whichever date is later.
21.0	9 Appeal Process. In the event that a request for salary credit for advanced degrees or for prior teaching experience is initially denied by District staff, the request shall be referred to a joint LCTA/District committee for review and final determination. The committee shall be comprised of two LCTA and two District representatives; the Director of Personnel Services or his/her designee shall serve as Chair of the committee and the President of LCTA and the Chief of Labor Relations shall serve as an ex officio members. This committee shall meet as needed upon notice of the Chief of Labor Relations and shall render a determination in writing no later than 20 days after such meeting.
21.10	Life Insurance. The Board shall provide, without cost to the employee, group term life insurance for a 12-month period in the amount of $15,000 to be paid to the appropriately designated beneficiary. The amount of such insurance shall be increased to $30,000 effective the first workday in January 2005.
21.11	Health Insurance Program.
A. The Board will make available to eligible employees a group health insurance program. The Board shall contribute the following percentages of the premiums charged by each of the health care plans, including the premium for mental health care, offered by the District through its health care program:
78.2	2 percent of the individual coverage premium; and
58.1	6 percent of the two-person and family coverage premium.
In no case shall the Board’s contribution exceed 100 percent of the premium costs for the program in which the employee is participating.
B.	Two-Employee Coverage.
1.	Two-Employee/Two-Person Coverage. Beginning with the new 2004 plan year, each employee covered under two-employee/two-person coverage shall pay one-half of the individual employee’s cost for single coverage. For the 2005 plan year, each employee covered under 27
two-employee/two-person coverage shall pay 75 percent of the individual employee’s cost for single coverage. For the 2006 plan year and beyond, each employee covered under two-employee/two-person coverage shall pay the individual employee’s cost for single coverage.
2.	Two-Employee/Family Coverage. Beginning with the new 2004 plan year, each employee covered under two-employee/family coverage shall pay one-half of the individual employee’s cost for single coverage. For the 2005 plan year, each employee covered under two-employee/family coverage shall pay 75 percent of the individual employee’s cost for single coverage. For the 2006 plan year and beyond, each employee covered under two-employee/family coverage shall pay the individual employee’s cost for single coverage.
C.	The District will provide for the payment of premiums by payroll deduction for employees for such plan. The Board health insurance contribution shall be made in ten installments.
21.12	The District shall make tax-deferred annuity programs through payroll deduction available to all employees other than those paid in an hourly-as-needed status who work less than 17.5 hours per week or whose employment is not expected to continue beyond one semester (see paragraph 21.05D). Other payroll deduction options, including any Internal Revenue Service approved tax-sheltered “cafeteria plan,” may be offered by the Board when available.
21.13	The District shall notify all employees of any changes in the insurance coverage provided herein at least ten days prior to the effective date of the change and shall provide each new employee with a description of insurance coverage within ten days of the beginning of the school year or date of employment. The District will be responsible for providing insurance information in the form of applications and/or enrollment meetings.
21.14	Benefits Committee. A committee shall be established to evaluate the current benefits program and review proposed changes to such program. This committee shall monitor the current plan and recommend to the Superintendent and Association any changes it determines are necessary. The Benefits Committee shall consist of at least five members, two of whom shall be LCTA appointees and one of whom shall be the District Chief of Labor Relations.
21.15	An employee who must use his/her personal automobile on District business shall be reimbursed at the current rate established by the Board for such travel. Such mileage reimbursement shall not include routine travel to and from the employee’s home and the school to which assigned. In order to receive the mileage reimbursement, the employee must
28
complete the proper forms and have the proper authorization as provided in Board policy.
21.16	The District’s system of directly depositing employee pay into an account at financial institutions that enter into a written direct deposit agreement with the District will be the exclusive method of paying the amounts owed each payday on or after August 1, 2004, as described in paragraph 21.19A below.
21.17	If there is an overpayment of salary or supplement to the employee:
A.	The Payroll Department will notify the employee as quickly as possible and within 24 hours of the discovered overpayment;
B.	Only the amount of overpayment will be returned to the District; and C. A mutually agreed upon repayment plan shall be implemented by the Payroll Department if an employee requests such a plan due to his/her inability to make immediate repayment. Such repayment plan shall ordinarily not extend beyond the end of the fiscal year in which the overpayment is identified.
21.18	Method of Salary Payment.
A.	The District will, on or after August 1, 2004, provide pay to employees exclusively through direct deposit of the amounts owing to the employees each payday into an account at a financial institution as designated by the employee. Employees will be provided with an option to access their pay from one or more financial institutions without the necessity of opening an account at that institution. Until the implementation of this direct deposit system, paychecks will continue to be provided to employees as described below. Upon the implementation of this new direct deposit procedure, any inconsistent provisions in paragraphs B through H below shall become null and void.
B.	Ten-month employees will have the option of being paid their annual salary in either 10 or 12 equal monthly payments. All employees assigned to year-round tracks in schools shall be on a 12-month pay cycle. For those employees who choose the 10-payment option, the Board will establish pay dates.
C.	Ten-month employees who choose the 12-payment option will have their annual pay divided into 12 equal monthly payments to be made on the last workday of the month beginning in August of the school year through July of the school year. The first pay period will be set by the Board.
D.	Employees who wish to exercise the 12-payment option must file the appropriate forms with their site administrator prior to the end of the second preplanning day. The payment preference decision is irreversible for that school year, but may be revisited annually. Employees hired after the first day of the employee contract year will
29
have up to ten days to determine their payment option. District payment option forms will be available at each school site.
E.	The 12-payment option is not recommended for employees who are considering retirement during or after the school year, as it will result in the delay of final salary certification to the Florida Division of Retirement and therefore delay of the first retirement check.
F.	Benefits will not be deducted from the first and last payments for employees on the 12-payment option. June and July checks for 12-payment option employees will be delivered to their cost centers for distribution on the last workday of June or July. Employees may choose to have these checks mailed to their home address.
G.	Paychecks being delivered to employees not actively working, such as may occur when the final pay date is subsequent to the last day the employee works, will be mailed to the address designated by the employee or, if requested in writing, released to a designated individual.
H.	Payroll dates for employees shall be listed on the District website. 21.19 Retirement Incentive.
A.	An employee who attains his/her normal retirement date, prior to the beginning of the succeeding school year, shall have ten percent of his/her annual salary, excluding supplements, added to his/her annual salary provided that s/he, by December 1 of the school year of his/her normal retirement date: (1) completes the necessary procedures through the Coordinator of Employee Related Benefits and; (2) resigns effective at the end of the school year. This sum will be paid in the last six checks. Retirement eligibility period will run from the beginning date of one school year to the beginning of the succeeding school year. This retirement incentive is not available to employees who choose to participate in the Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP).
B.	For the purpose of this section, the phrase “normal retirement date” shall mean retirement as defined in Sections 121.021(29) or 238.07(2)(e)l and (f), F.S. (2000).
21.20 Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP) Participants.
A.	Upon entering Deferred Retirement Option Program, employees who are members of the Sick Leave Bank are eligible to continue such membership as provided in School Board Policy 2.33(1).
B.	Employees reappointed after retiring from the Florida Retirement System as provided in Section 121.091(9)(b)3., Florida Statutes, or from the Teacher Retirement System as provided in Section 238.181(2)(c), Florida Statutes, shall be granted applicable service credit for purposes of placement on the salary schedule, to a maximum of 20 years. Such employees shall then advance on the
30
schedule in successive years based on additional years of service credit earned after reemployment.
Article XXII
PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS
22.01 The District shall deduct from the pay of each employee all current membership dues of the LCTA, provided that at the time of such deduction there is in the possession of the employer a written authorization for dues deduction executed by the employee in the form and according to the terms of the dues deduction authorization form furnished by the LCTA.
22.02 An employee may authorize dues deduction by presenting an authorization card to the Payroll Department in any of the ten payroll periods.
22.03 The Board agrees to deduct l/10th of the annual dues of the LCTA from the monthly salary payments to employees who have on file a payroll deduction authorization card.
22.04 Authorization for dues deduction is revocable upon written request by the employee to the District. The District will furnish a copy of this request for revocation to the LCTA as soon as possible. The revocation for dues deduction will be effective on the pay date that is no less than 30 calendar days after receipt of the written request.
22.05 All dues deducted by the District shall be remitted to the treasurer of the LCTA in monthly installments as soon as it is practical after the close of the payroll period.
22.06 The LCTA will not be assessed the costs incurred by the District in order to provide authorized dues deductions. Such payroll deductions authorization shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter unless revoked in writing by the member. In this regard, the District shall reinstate dues deductions for employees who return to active employment status after having been placed in long-term leave without pay status.
22.07 The District will provide LCTA with a payroll deduction slot for the purpose of deducting premiums for companies participating in the LCTA-sponsored benefits program. All deductions shall be made on a ten payroll basis using a mutually agreeable deduction form to be provided by LCTA and transmitted to the common remitter selected by LCTA for such purpose as a single check each payroll period. LCTA will hold the Board harmless for any claims arising out of the use of this payroll deduction slot.
Article XXIII
EMPLOYEE WORK YEAR
23.01 Standard and Extended School Year and Work Year. The standard work year consists of 196 days. The School Board may adopt a written plan for an extended work year consisting of no more than 211 days, beginning with the 2006-2007 school year, at one or more instructional sites. This plan shall include the educational purpose to be achieved by the extension of the 31
work year. LCTA shall be provided with the proposed plan at least 60 calendar days prior to its consideration by the Board, and the District shall consult with LCTA prior to Board action regarding such plan. Employees at a school where such extended work year is to be implemented shall be provided with written notice that the District plans to implement an extended work year at their school no later than March 1 of the school year preceding the implementation of such extended work year. Employees at such school shall have input into their school’s plan through the procedures provided in Article 25 (School Improvement and Accountability and Shared Decision-Making) or through other appropriate teacher group(s) at the school (school improvement team, leadership team, etc.) Employees’ pay shall be increased proportionally consistent with the extended work year (see Section 21.03). A permanent employee assigned to a school that is to have an extended work year who desires to transfer to a school on a standard work year shall be provided with such an opportunity. Six of the days in the standard or extended work year shall be designated as paid holidays. Appropriate time to complete necessary tasks during preschool and postschool planning days shall be provided for the employee at the work station.
23.02 Year-Round School Year. The work year for employees assigned to year-round tracks in schools shall include 180 instructional days adjusted to accommodate intersession breaks of approximately 15 days each. The remaining 16 days shall be designated to reflect the six paid holidays and ten in-service/planning days.
23.03 Department of Juvenile Justice Program Year.
A.	Employees assigned to Department of Juvenile Justice programs shall be appointed for a traditional school year as described in Section 23.01 above. Additionally, such employees shall be offered appointment for supplemental periods as necessary for the Department to fulfill its statutory requirement to provide 240 days of instruction each year. This offer of supplemental appointment(s) beyond the traditional school year shall be made to employees prior to the start of the school year.
B.	Employees employed on such supplemental appointments shall be governed by the following policies:
1.	Pay During Supplemental Appointment(s). An employee shall be paid under the provisions of Section 21.04;
2.	Sick Leave. Sick leave accrual and use during supplemental appointments shall be governed by the provisions of Section 16.01;
3.	Personal Leave. An employee may use no more than a total of one day of sick leave for personal reasons during such supplemental appointment(s);
32
4.	Holiday. An employee whose supplemental appointment covers the July 4 holiday shall be compensated for such holiday;
5.	Temporary Duty. An employee shall not have the right to temporary duty assignments during such supplemental appointment(s); and
6.	Annual Leave. No annual leave shall be accrued while serving in such supplemental appointments.
23.04 The recommendations to the Superintendent for the annual Leon County Schools calendar shall be developed collaboratively by District staff, the District Advisory Council, and the District Shared School Improvement Council.
33
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have set their hands this 11“ day of October 2005.
LEON COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT Sheila Costigan, Chairperson Leon County School Board 	 William .I.M^ftfoiU III A Superintendent	// Janies JI Parry	1	I Chief ol'Labor Relations District Bargaining Team Penny Brinson Allen Burch Dave Crandall Deshone Hedrington Fannie Hope Carolyn Peterson Roger Pinholster Randy Pridgeon Frank Voran	LEON CLASSROOM TEACHERS ASSOCIATION David K. Worrell, President Leon Classroom Teachers Association Paul. T. Burdette. Sr, Executive Director Big Bend Service Unit—Florida Education Assn. Lavonne Dilmore-Gause Chief Negotiator LCTA Bargaining Team Cheryl Collier-Brown Kylie Flynn Flora Davis Bob Drayton Sarah Hembree Ernestine LaCount Sabrina Mack Ann Norton
34
Appendix B
SALARY SUPPLEMENTS
I.	Assignment of Supplements.
A.	All supplements listed in this appendix are granted only on the basis of one school year.
B.	Available Supplements /Vacancies.
1.	Site administrators shall make a reasonable effort to identify employees (i.e., instructional employees covered by this Contract) at their site, or at other sites, who are qualified and willing to assume supplemental responsibilities as described in this Appendix and accompanying chart. To this end, the site administrator shall provide a list of all available supplements to employees within 20 days of the beginning of the school year. As vacancies or new supplements occur, employees will be informed. A list of persons receiving supplements shall be provided to employees by October 15 by the site administrator.
2.	Site administrators are discouraged from assigning supplemental responsibilities to noninstructional District employees who work at an hourly rate and are eligible for overtime (nonexempt employees) as well as persons who are not otherwise employed by the District since these persons must be paid at an hourly rate for such assignments and are also normally eligible for overtime to the extent that their total hours worked for the District exceeds 40 hours in a workweek.
3.	When there is a vacancy in a supplemented coaching position, the following procedure will be implemented:
a.	Qualified applicants will be sought from within the school.
b.	Qualified applicants will be sought from other schools within the district, except that a high school is not required to seek applicants from other district high schools to fill a coaching vacancy.
If the position remains vacant after such action, the site administrator may assign one supplemented coaching activity each year to a P.E. teacher from within the school where the vacancy exists.
C.	The Student Activities Handbook contains an outline of the duties to be performed in the major categories of supplements listed in the chart below. A copy of this handbook shall be provided to each site administrator, athletic director, and the Leon Classroom Teachers Association (LCTA) President.
D.	As supplemental pay assignments are made, the site administrator will provide the employee with the District’s list of duties/expectancies that the employee is to perform in that assignment. Supplemental salaries will be paid only if said duties/expectancies are performed.
35
E.	Supplements are to be paid for assignments performed in addition to regular instructional duties. All employees receiving supplements shall carry a full instructional or instructional-related load.
F.	An employee who is to perform supplemental activities at a worksite that is not his/her primary worksite (i.e., at a secondary worksite) shall complete a “Supplemented Activities - Secondary Site Approval Form.” The approval form is to be signed by the employee and site administrators at both the primary and secondary worksite prior to the employee engaging in such supplemented activity. The employee is to provide a copy of the completed approval form to both site administrators.
II.	Supplement Amounts.
A.	Supplement percentages will be calculated on a base salary of $25,000 beginning with the 2005-2006 school year. It is the intent of the parties that the supplement base shall be increased in succeeding years to equal the beginning pay level on the employees’ salary schedule, subject to the availability of funds for this purpose.
B.	A Department Chair/Team Leader in an area at any school site with a minimum of three employees, including the Chairperson/Team Leader, shall be supplemented at the rate of four percent, plus one-half percent per person over the minimum of three to a maximum of ten percent.
C.	In elementary and middle schools, the amounts provided for assigned supplements as listed in the supplement schedule may be changed upon recommendation by the site administrator and approval by either the School Advisory Council (SAC) or the Shared Decision-Making Council (SDMC). Increases/decreases in the individual supplements may not exceed two percent
D.	The minimum amount of a supplement shall be one percent of the base salary upon which supplements are calculated, notwithstanding any other provisions of Appendix B.
E.	All high school supplements shall be divided into the following seven categories:
Director	15	percent
Major Activity Coach	12	percent
Minor Activity Coach	8	percent
Major Activity Assistant	6 percent
Minor Activity Assistant	4 percent
Sponsor	4	percent
Faculty Representative	3	percent
III.	Number of Supplements.
A.	Any employee may receive more than one supplement, but not more than three supplements, for duties performed in any one school year. Exceptions to this policy may be made upon recommendation by the site
36
administrator and approval by either the School Advisory Council or the Shared Decision-Making Council.
B.	The number of high school supplements assigned in each activity area listed on the supplement chart shall not exceed the number authorized in the Student Activities Handbook—High School, where applicable (see page 84 of the 2005-06 Handbook), regardless of fund source. Exceptions may be made only upon prior written approval of the Executive Director for Secondary Schools and the Director of Interdivisional Support Services.
IV.	Special Provisions for Athletic Supplements.
A.	Athletic supplements shall be classified as major or minor in accordance with Section IIE of this appendix.
B.	Prorated increases will be provided to employees receiving supplements for FHSAA sponsored activities where the season is extended because of participation in the postseason state series. The supplement amount will be increased by ten percent if weekly contests, or by five percent with biweekly contests.
Weekly contests include the following: cross country, football, flag football, swimming, wrestling, golf, tennis, track, and weightlifting. Biweekly contests include: volleyball, basketball, soccer, baseball, and softball. Band and chorus will receive one week of extended pay for participation in State festivals and for attendance at State football playoffs when directed by the administration. Cheerleader sponsors will receive extended pay only for the basketball season. Athletic trainers will receive extended season pay one time per sports season (fall, winter, spring) based on the schedule above.
C.	Coaching Both Boys and Girls Teams.
1.	An employee who coaches the boys and girls teams of the same high school minor sport shall receive 3/4 of the sum total of the supplements in those cases where the level of participation by students exceeds 20 and the sports seasons dates are the same (these sports are cross country, golf, swimming, tennis, and weightlifting). The remaining !4 of the total supplement amounts may be assigned to an assistant coach who must also coach both teams. In such instance, the head coach and assistant coach must attend both boys and girls meets/matches.
2.	A high school employee may not coach the boys and girls teams of the same major sport.
3.	Middle school employees may receive the full supplements for coaching both the boys and girls team in the same sport as long as the sports seasons do not run concurrently and neither sport is classified as a coed sport.
D.	High School Athletic Directors will be employed 12 months and will be paid 12/10 of the annual salary.
37
E.	High school head football coaches not employed 12 months will be provided three weeks additional employment on an annual basis.
F.	Athletic Trainers will receive one 12% supplement per sports season (fall, winter, spring). They will also be eligible to receive extended season pay one time per sports season.
G.	The full Special Olympics Supervisor supplement is to be paid to employees who perform the additional duties beyond their regular instructional/supervisory load for all three Special Olympics activity seasons. The supplement is to be prorated if the employee provides the additional coaching/supervisory duties for fewer than the three seasons.
H.	Supplements for club sponsors/coaches that are not listed below due to the approved activity being wholly funded through authorized booster organizations or other non-District fund sources shall not exceed the amounts stated below for a major activity coach or assistant coach.
I.	The site administrator shall ensure that a person with appropriate administrative authority is present at scheduled home athletic events.
V.	Other Conditions and Special Provisions.
A.	Teachers working in full-time 12-month administrative roles do not fall under the LCTA salary schedule, but instead are subject to salary placement and increases deemed appropriate by the Superintendent. All other provisions of the contract apply.
B.	Supplemental pay assignments are official school-sponsored activities. While in the performance of these assignments, employees shall be covered by the benefits of employment normally received during the regular course of their work.
C.	Industrial Arts teachers will be assigned to supplemental duties by the building administrator. High schools may increase/decrease this amount by two percent.
D.	Supplements provided to individuals otherwise employed by the District shall be paid on the individual’s regular payroll cycle. In the instance where an individual has been paid for all or a portion of a supplemental assignment that is subsequently not performed, the District is authorized to deduct the applicable amount from the individual’s regular District pay pursuant to Section 21.18. Supplements provided to individuals not otherwise employed by the District shall be paid at the conclusion of the season, or extended season where applicable.
38
TEACHER SALARY SUPPLEMENTS
Supplement Description	Level/Code	%of Supplement Base	Supplement Amount	Number of Supplements and Conditions Governing their Assignment are Specified in Student Activities Handbook	Special Provisions Referenced in Appendix B
HIGH SCHOOL					
Athletics					
Athletic Director	HS 4	15%	$3,750	X	IVD
Athletic Trainer	HS 110	12%	$3,000	X	IVD;IVF
Baseball - Head	HS 6	12%	$3,000	X	IVB
Bas eb al 1-As s istant	HS 30	6%	$1,500	X	IVB
Basketball - Head -Boys/Girls	HS 5	12%	$3,000	X	IVB; IVC1
Basketball - Assistant -Boys/Girls	HS 15	6%	$1,500	X	IVB; IVC1
Business Manager-Athletics	HS 13	10%	$2,500	X	IVB
Cheerleader - Head	HS 7	12%	$3,000	X	IVB
Cheerleader - Assistant	HS 22	6%	$1,500	X	IVB
Cross Country - Head -Boys/Girls	HS37	8%	$2,000	X	IVB; IVC1
Dance Coach - Head	HS 115	12%	$3,000	X	
FHSAA Activity Sponsor	HS 33	2%	$500		
Flag Football - Head - Girls	HS 108	8%	$2,000	X	IVB
Flag Football - Assistant -Girls	HS 109	4%	$1,000	X	IVB
Football - Head	HS 1	12%	$3,000	X	IVB
Football - Assistant	HS 46	10%	$2,500	X	IVB
Football - Head - Spring	HS 84	4%	$1,000	X	IVB
Golf - Head - Boys/Girls	HS 40	8%	$2,000	X	IVB; IVC1
Rhythmic Gymnastics	HS 89	4%	$1,000	X	
Soccer - Head - Boys/Girls	HS 18	12%	$3,000	X	IVB; IVC1
Soccer - Assistant -Boys/Girls	HS 53	6%	$1,500	X	IVB; IVC1
Softball - Head	HS 21	12%	$3,000	X	IVB
Softball - Assistant	HS 50	6%	$1,500	X	IVB
Swimming - Head -Boys/Girls	HS 31	8%	$2,000	X	IVB; IVC1
Tennis - Head - Boys/Girls	HS 32	8%	$2,000	X	IVB; IVC1
Track - Head - Boys/Girls	HS 14	12%	$3,000	X	IVB; IVC1
Track - Assistant -Boys/Girls	HS 116	6%	$1,500	X	IVB; IVC1
39
Supplement Description	Level/Code	%of Supplement Base	Supplement Amount	Number of Supplements and Conditions Governing their Assignment are Specified in Student Activities Handbook	Special Provisions Referenced in Appendix B
Volleyball - Head	HS 23	12%	$3,000	X	IVB
Volleyball - Assistant	HS 49	6%	$1,500	X	IVB
Weightlifting - Head -Boys/Girls	HS35	8%	$2,000	X	IVB; IVC1
Wrestling - Head	HS 25	12%	$3,000	X	IVB
Wrestling - Assistant1	HS 111	6%	$1,500	X	IVB
Special Olympics Supervisor	SCH52	6%	$1,500		IVG
Student Academic Activities					
Band Director	HS 2	15%	$3,750	X	IVB
Band - Assistant	HS 8	8%	$2,000	X	IVB
Choral Director	HS 3	15%	$3,750	X	IVB
Choral Assistant	HS 9	8%	$2,000	X	IVB
Junior and Senior Class Sponsors	HS41	20%	$5,000	X	
Academic Coaches - Sponsors2	HS 44	56%	$14,000		
Student Government	HS 42	4%	$1,000	X	
Student Production2	SCH 24	20%	$5,000		
Newspaper Sponsor	HS 83	6%	$1,500	X	
Yearbook Sponsor	HS 82	6%	$1,500	X	
Industrial Arts	HS 10	6%	$1,500		
SAIL					
Athletics					
Basketball - Freshman - Head	SAIL 34	6%	$1,500	X	
Cheerleading Sponsor	SAIL 36	6%	$1,500	X	
Student Academic Activities					
Academic Coaches/ Sponsors-Student Production2	SAIL 44	44%	$11,000		
Yearbook Sponsor	HS 82	6%	$1,500	X	
Student Government	HS 42	4%	$1,000	X	
This supplement is authorized only on the condition that the school has a JV team.
Academic Coaches and Sponsors, and Student Production supplements may be provided in number and amount as determined by program needs at a site in each category, subject to the one percent minimum supplement amount.
40
Supplement Description	Level/Code	%of Supplement Base	Supplement Amount	Number of Supplements and Conditions Governing their Assignment are Specified in Student Activities Handbook	Special Provisions Referenced in Appendix B
Newspaper Sponsor	HS 83	6%	$1,500	X	
MIDDLE SCHOOL					
Athletics					
Activity Director	MS 48	12%	$3,000		
Basketball - Boys/Girls	MS 55	4%	$1,000		IIC;IVC3
Cheerleader Sponsor	MS 57	6%	$1,500		IIC
Cross Country - Coed	MS 101	4%	$1,000	X	IIC
Flag Football - Coed	MS 100	4%	$1,000		IIC
Business Manager - Athletics	MS 122	2%	$500		IIC
Football - Tackle - Head	MS 106	6%	$1,500		IIC
Football - Tackle - Assistant	MS 107	4%	$1,000		IIC
Golf-Coed	MS 64	4%	$1,000		IIC
Soccer - Boys/Girls	MS 54	4%	$1,000		IIC;IVC3
Softball - Girls	MS 66	4%	$1,000		IIC
Track- Boys/Girls	MS 65	4%	$1,000		IIC
Volleyball - Girls	MS 56	4%	$1,000		IIC
Special Olympics Supervisor	SCH52	6%	$1,500		IVG
Student Academic Activities					
Band Director	MS 19	8%	$2,000		IIC
Choral Director	MS 20	8%	$2,000		IIC
Academic Coaches - Sponsors; Student Production2	MS 44	44%	$11,000		
Student Government	MS 42	4%	$1,000		IIC
Publications - Newspaper	MS 29	4%	$1,000		IIC
Publications - Yearbook	MS 28	4%	$1,000		IIC
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL					
Special Olympics Supervisor	SCH52	6%	$1,500		IVF
Academic Coaches - Sponsors; Student Production2	ELEM 47	16%	$4,000		IIC
Academic Coaches and Sponsors, and Student Production supplements may be provided in number and amount as determined by program needs at a site in each category, subject to the one percent minimum supplement amount.
41
Supplement Description	Level/Code	%of Supplement Base	Supplement Amount	Number of Supplements and Conditions Governing their Assignment are Specified in Student Activities Handbook	Special Provisions Referenced in Appendix B
ALL SCHOOLS					
Beginning Teacher Mentor	SCH 123	2%	$500		IIB
Department Chair/Team Leader3	SCH 45				IIC
Site Facilitator	SCH 73	3%	$750		IIC
TEC Representative	SCH 38	4%	$1,000		IIC
SPECIALIZED					
Special Sites					
Academic Coaches - Sponsors; Student Production Everhart	EVH 44	24%	6,000		
Academic Coaches - Sponsors; Student Production - Pace Secondary, Academy, Second Chance4	SS 44	16%	4,000		
Special Olympics Supervisor	SCH 52	6%	$1,500		IVG
Cheerleading Sponsor -Everhart	EVH 7	6%	$1,500		
Industrial Education - Lively	LIV 11	8%	$2,000		
District-Wide					
Diving Coach - District-Wide HS	DIST 79	6%	$1,500	X	
Brain Bowl - District-Wide MS	DIST 76	4%	$1,000	X	
Brain Bowl - District-Wide HS	DIST 77	4%	$1,000	X	
History Fair - District-Wide	DIST 78	4%	$1,000	X	
Academic Coaches and Sponsors, and Student Production supplements may be provided in number and amount as determined by program needs at a site in each category, subject to the one percent minimum supplement amount.
The amount of the supplement for Department Chairs/Team Leaders is determined by the provisions of paragraph IIB of Appendix B.
This supplement is provided to each of the listed schools with the understanding that individual supplements may be provided in number and amount as determined by program needs at each site, subject to the one percent minimum supplement amount. It is also understood that the full amount provided to each of the listed schools may not be expended due to program differences among the sites.
42
Appendix D 2005-2006 Teacher Salary Schedule Leon County School District - Leon Classroom Teachers Association
Years Experience Completed June 2005	200506 Pay Level	2005-06 BA Schedule	2005-06 MS Schedule	2005-06 ES Schedule	2005-06 Doc Schedule
0	0	$30,650	$31,695	$32,755	$33,810
1	0	$30,650	$31,695	$32,755	$33,810
2	1	$30,962	$32,012	$33,176	$34,236
3	2	$31,527	$32,634	$33,781	$34,833
4	3	$32,299	$33,427	$34,635	$35,700
5	3	$32,299	$33,427	$34,635	$35,700
6	4	$32,665	$33,794	$35,109	$36,270
7	5	$33,045	$34,173	$35,527	$36,705
8	6	$33,424	$34,553	$35,998	$37,195
9	7	$33,803	$34,933	$36,469	$37,684
10	8	$34,182	$35,313	$36,956	$38,174
11	9	$34,616	$35,747	$37,488	$38,718
12	10	$35,049	$36,181	$37,986	$39,316
13	11	$35,483	$36,615	$38,528	$40,077
14	12	$36,025	$37,191	$39,070	$40,893
15	13	$36,557	$38,167	$39,964	$41,872
16	14	$37,207	$39,167	$40,909	$42,906
17	15	$38,138	$40,197	$41,833	$43,939
18	16	$39,039	$41,226	$42,811	$45,027
19	17	$41,285	$43,514	$44,949	$47,293
20	17	$41,285	$43,514	$44,949	$47,293
21	18	$42,605	$44,791	$46,300	$48,454
22	19	$43,950	$46,137	$47,644	$49,722
23	20	$45,314	$47,473	$49,068	$51,109
24	21	$46,733	$49,001	$50,603	$52,642
25	22	$51,245	$53,200	$54,778	$56,864
26+	23	$54,249	$56,490	$58,350	$59,849
Please Note: This schedule is designed to indicate pay levels that equate with years of creditable experience for new and current instructional employees for the 2005-2006 year only. It should not be used to predict or plan future pay levels or increases as it is renegotiated and restructured annually.					
43
Index
Subject	Page
Abandonment of Position...............................................21
Appeal Process........................................................27
Athletic Directors....................................................37
Benefits Committee....................................................28
Bereavement Leave.....................................................20
Bulletin Boards........................................................2
Class Size - Class Load...............................................13
Classroom Observations................................................12
Committees.............................................................4,	8
Communicating to Employees.............................................2
Compensated Assignments Beyond the Standard Work Schedule (Workday, Workweek, or Work Year)..................................9
Compensation..........................................................21
Compensation, Teacher Education Center or Similar Programs............24
Compensation for Summer School, Evening School, Other Programs, and Hourly-as-Needed Employees....................................23
Compensatory Time...................................................7,10
Court Appearances.....................................................20
Curriculum and Instructional Materials................................22
Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP).............................30
Direct Deposit of Paychecks...........................................29
Dues Deduction........................................................31
Employee Assignments................................................8, 10
Employee Hourly Rate of Pay...........................................22
Employee Rights and Responsibilities...................................1
Employee Salaries for the 2005-2006 School Year.......................21
Employee Workday and Workweek..........................................6
Employee Workweek......................................................7
Employee Work Year..................................................9, 31
Excessive Absence - Instructional Continuity..........................21
Faculty Meetings....................................................2,11
Florida Education Association Delegate Assembly........................4
Health and Safety.....................................................12
Health Insurance Program..............................................27
In-Service Activities..................................................9
Instructional Continuity - Excessive Absence..........................21
LCTA Access to District Policies and Rules.............................3
LCTA Activities, Temporary Duty........................................4
LCTA Activities, Unpaid Leave..........................................5
LCTA Data Requests.....................................................3
LCTA, Release of President for LCTA Activities.........................3
LCTA, Reports Provided to..............................................3
44
LCTA Representation on District Committees.............................4
LCTA Rights and Responsibilities.......................................2
LCTA Use of Facilities.................................................3
Leave for Contracting Communicable Disease at the Worksite............19
Legislative Committee..................................................4
Life Insurance........................................................27
Loss of Pay...........................................................22
Lunch Period...........................................................7
Medical Information...................................................17
Military Leave........................................................20
Negotiations...........................................................3
Negotiations Committee.................................................4
Observations, Classroom...............................................12
Overpayment of Salary/Supplement......................................29
Paid Holidays.........................................................21,	32
Paid Leaves...........................................................14
Payroll Deductions....................................................31
Personal and Emergency Leave..........................................17
Personal Automobile Use...............................................28
Planning/Preparation Period............................................7
Private School Experience Credit......................................25
Professional Assignments and Working Conditions........................6
Retirement Incentive..................................................30
Rules and Policies....................................................11
Salary Schedule (Appendix D)..........................................43
Salary Supplements (Appendix B).......................................35,	39
School Facilities.....................................................11
School Improvement and Accountability and Shared Decision Making....6, 32
Sick Leave............................................................14
Sick Leave Credit and Accrual.........................................14
Sick Leave, Requesting and Grant of...................................16
Sick Leave Transfer to a Family Member................................17
Signatures/Witnesses..................................................34
Special Olympics Supervisor...........................................38
Supplements/Vacancies.................................................35
Tax-Deferred Annuity Programs.........................................28
Teaching Periods and Time for Other Duties.............................7
Temporary Duty........................................................20,	33
Verification of Absence...............................................21
Unpaid Leave..........................................................22
Workday, Extended......................................................6
Workday, Standard......................................................6
Workers’ Compensation - Leave and Benefits............................18
Workweek, Employee.....................................................7
45