AGREEMENT
2003-2004
between the
BOARD OF EDUCATION SCHOOL DISTRICT 189 East St. Louis, Illinois
and the
EAST ST. LOUIS FEDERATION OF TEACHERS, LOCAL 1220 of the American Federation of Teachers AFL-CIO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE NUMBER & NAME	PAGE
I	-	SCOPE.........................................1
II	-	FAIR PRACTICE.................................1
III	-	RECOGNITION...................................2
IV	-	WORKING CONDITIONS............................4
Tuition Reimbursement ...................... 6
Class Size .................................9
Head Teacher ...............................10
V	-	SPECIAL CONDITIONS............................10
Department Heads .......................... 10
Payment of Salary ..........................12
Payment of Extra Classes ...................12
Co-curricular Activities .................. 15
Incoming Teachers ......................... 16
VI	-	ATHLETICS.....................................17
Appointment of Coaches .................... 17
VII	-	SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR ELEMENTARY.............19
VIII	-	SPECIAL EDUCATION.............................19
IX	-	ATTENDANCE OFFICERS...........................20
X	-	COUNSELORS AND SOCIAL WORKERS.................20
XI	-	SCHOOL NURSES.................................20
XII	-	VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND FEDERAL PROJECTS ... 21
XIII	-	SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR MUSIC ED. TEACHERS... 21
XIV	-	WELFARE BENEFITS AND LEAVES...................23
XV	-	SENIORITY......................................2	9
XVI	-	TRANSFER POLICY...............................30
XVII	-	SUMMER SCHOOL.................................31
XVIII	-	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE...........................34
XIX	-	FISCAL COMMITTEE..............................36
XX	-	CLERICAL EMPLOYEES............................36
Hours ......................................36
Seniority ..................................37
Vacancies ..................................37
Vacations ..................................39
XXI	-	STATE APPROVED TEACHER-AIDES..................41
XXII	-	FAIR SHARE....................................42
XXIII	-	PERSONNEL FILES...............................43
XXIV	-	SALARIES......................................44
•	NON-CERTIFIED LONGEVITY ..................... 44
•	CERTIFIED LONGEVITY ......................... 51
•	BOARD PAID CONTRIBUTIONS TO TEACHER RET. SYS. 51
•	ATHLETICS PAY SCHEDULE ...................... 61
•	MUSIC PAY SCHEDULE............................62
AGREEMENT
ARTICLE I	- SCOPE
Agreement made and entered into by and between the Board of Education of School District #189 of East St. Louis, Illinois, and the East St. Louis Federation of Teachers, Local 1220, and affiliate of the American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO, for the school years 2003-2004. Agreement is to be effective August 18, 2003, for certified employees, and July 1, 2003, for non-certified employees.
The East St. Louis Federation of Teachers, Local 1220 (hereinafter referred to as the "Union"), represents professional teachers and non-certified personnel who are interested in the welfare of students, wise use of tax funds and superior educational opportunities. These interests go far beyond a mere salary agreement and terms for conditions of employment.
It is recognized by the parties that all provisions of the Agreement may be altered only by the consent of both parties. If any provision of this Agreement is subsequently declared by the proper legislative or judicial authority to be illegal or nonbinding, all other provisions remain whole with the void provision deleted.
This Agreement represents the full and complete agreement of the parties and supersedes any prior oral or written agreements.
ARTICLE II	- FAIR PRACTICE
1.	The Board agrees to continue its policy of not discriminating against any employee covered under this Agreement on the basis of race, creed, color, national origin, sex, marital status or membership or membership or participation in, or association with the activities of East St. Louis Federation of Teachers, Local 1220.
All employees shall be dealt with in a professional and ethical manner in order to further promote the success of the educational programs of the district.
2.	It is agreed that all staff employed in the District should receive some preference when filling vacancies for which they are qualified.
3.	Academic Freedom: It is recognized by the parties that a spirit of free and open study inquiry and learning is required for the creation and maintenance of a desirable and necessary teaching-learning environment. Each teacher shall
1
have the right to conduct his/her classes free from intimidation and harassment.
ARTICLE III	- RECOGNITION
The Board recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative of:
1.	a. The unit of all classroom teachers, guidance counselors, librarians, teachers on leave, coaches, special education teachers, social workers, special classroom teachers (i.e. homebound or those who rotate from school to school), school nurses, program teachers, coordinators of work base learning, coordinators of WECEP, coordinators of special populations, assessment specialists, senior high registrars, physicaljtherapists and all other professional employees as defined by the Illinois Educational Labor Relations Act; and
b. The unit of clerical employees, accounting specialists, accounting technicians, senior accounting technicians, attendance officers, middle school secretaries, teacher aides, health technicians, drug abuse prevention coordinators, child care workers, child care facilitators, in-house suspension monitors, interpreters, coordinator of attendance, computer technicians, and parent coordinators approved by the State Office of Education. (These units exclude such unit managerial and confidential employees as defined by the Illinois Educational Labor Relations Act).
2.	Neither party shall take any action in violation of or inconsistent with any provision of this Agreement.
3.	The Board shall make available upon request to the Union any and all information, statistics and records, in accordance with the Illinois Educational Labor Relations Act.
4.	The Superintendent shall meet regularly with the officers and fiscal chairperson of the Union, on a monthly basis, to discuss matters of educational policy and development as well as matters relating to the implementation of this Agreement.
5.	Prior to the opening of school, the Superintendent shall hold a staff meeting with the fiscal committee and principals, assistant principals, supervisors, directors, and coordinators, and review all contents of this Agreement noting especially new items or changes.
6.	The principal of each school shall meet once a month with the union building committee to discuss school operations and
2
questions relating to the implementations of this agreement. Additional meetings of the building committee and principal shall be mutual agreement. The union building committee shall consist of not more than three duly elected union members from the school.
Proposed changes in existing policies and procedures and new policies and procedures for that school shall be subject for discussion at such meetings. Such policies adopted or maintained by any principal shall not be inconsistent with the' terms of this agreement.
7.	The union shall provide the Superintendent's office with sufficient copies of this agreement to have on file.
8.	a. The president of the Union, or the president's designee, may be given released time upon request to the Superintendent upon adequate notice for the specific purpose of visiting any school or project of this district in order to investigate the working conditions, grievances and complaints of individuals represented by the Union. The principal or other administrative personnel at any school or project may be required to confer with the Union president concerning any such matters. This released time provision shall not exceed 15 days per school year except where the situation presented is of an emergency nature mutually agreed to by both parties.
b. The executive secretary of the Union shall be given released time upon request of the Union, and upon approval of the Superintendent, for the specific purpose of payroll deduction analysis or activities related thereto.
9.	Whenever members covered by this Agreement are mutually scheduled by the parties to participate during workshop hours in conferences, meetings or in negotiations, they shall suffer no loss of pay.
10.	The Union shall be given a place on the agenda of the monthly building teachers' meetings for brief reports and announcements.
11.	All funds - federal, state or local - received by, available to, or anticipated by District 189, East St. Louis, Illinois shall be itemized by specific source and amount, and the president of the Union shall have the right to inspect records, documents, and information relating to such funds.
12.	All expenditures planned for School District 189, East St. Louis, Illinois for each school fiscal year, shall be
3
itemized and the amount of planned expenditures shown; the president of the Union shall be notified of such planned expenditures within ten (10) days after being reported to the Board and such information shall thereupon be made available to the Union.
13.	The Superintendent upon request being made by the president of the Union, will allow the Union time to present information concerning its organization at the new-employee orientation program, and the Superintendent will, not later than thirty (30) days after the beginning of the 2003-2004 school year, provide the Union with a list of all new employees in the District and the school to which such employees are assigned.
14.	a. All employees employed in the bargaining units, or who become employed in the bargaining units, who are not already members of the Union, shall, within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this agreement (as to present employees), or within sixty (60) days of their date of hire (as to future employees), become members or in the alternative shall as a continuing condition of employment pay to the Union each month a service fee in the amount to that person's proportionate share of the cost of negotiating and administering the provisions of this contract such amount to be certified annually by the Union, or before the 1st day of September of each and every year, hereafter, provided that in no event shall such service fee exceed the regular monthly Union membership dues uniformly required of employees of the Board who are members of the Union. All employees of the bargaining units have the right to join any organization, association, or union but membership in such organization shall not be required as a condition of employment. (Refer to HB 0701)
b. Deduction of union dues shall continue from a member's pay until written authorization is presented to the payroll department who must inform the Executive Secretary of Local 1220 within ten (10) days.
ARTICLE IV	- WORKING CONDITIONS
1.	Classroom interruptions are to be permitted only in case of emergency, except by the principal.
2.	Employees will carry out their duties under safe and healthful conditions in the schools. The Superintendent shall use his/her office, and the Board shall take steps necessary to see that students and non-students do not interfere with the affairs of the schools, utilizing to the greatest extent possible local law enforcement authorities.
4
The Superintendent may devise other means for maintaining discipline whenever the need for such means arises.
3.	Teachers are encouraged to participate in co-curricular activities. They may participate on a voluntary basis as outlined in Article V, Section Five (5) .
4.	All in service meetings are to be held on school time, and are to be limited to one (1) meeting per month. These meetings may be extended by a maximum of twenty (20) minutes beyond school time; no meeting shall be more than (1) hour thirty (30) minutes duration. Faculty meetings may be held between 8:30 a.m. and 3:40 p.m.
5.	The Board shall make every effort to provide parking facilities for teachers near their schools. These facilities shall be used by building personnel only and will not be available for use by the general public, including all election days. All parking lots shall be posted with appropriate signs indicating the lots are for school personnel only.
6.	Each school should be provided with a clean, attractive, comfortable teachers' lounge.
7.	To the extent administratively possible and educationally sound, teachers, based upon qualifications, teaching and academic experiences, shall be given the opportunity to work with classes of varying achievement levels.
8.	Teachers in elementary and secondary schools shall receive written notification of their tentative roster assignment for each new semester before the present semester of school year ends and their assignment in writing before August 15th of each new year. The master roster shall be posted in each school.
9.	Middle school and senior high school teachers shall not be scheduled to teach more than five (5) classes per day except as outlined in Article V, Section 4C.
10.	Scheduling practices shall include as an important factor a limitation of not more than three (3) different grade levels to be taught and no more than three (3) different lessons to be prepared for each day.
11.	The adjustment of behavioral problems is the joint responsibility of teachers and administrators. Teachers shall have immediate recourse to administrators who shall give the teacher effective and consistent support in resolving these problems.
5
12.	All issuing of books, assigning of lockers, payment of fees, renting and purchasing of locks, and issuing of any other material to students should be accomplished before the first day, except for late registering students, that classes begin each semester through a pre-registration procedure of at least one (1) day. (Notice of above registration shall be uniform within the District). No member of the teaching staff shall be required to do any of the above work. All follow-up work after school begins shall be done by clerks and other office staff. Teachers shall not be responsible for collecting or assessing for damage in the collection of books and materials. However, teachers should cooperate fully in developing an awareness in students and parents of their responsibility in the care of textbooks, materials and equipment.
13.	Teachers shall continue to participate in the book selection practices of the school system to obtain more flexibility in the selection of books and to expand the book listing.
14.	No changes in teaching conditions shall occur within a building unless the majority of teachers desire to change; however, those changes in conditions approved by the Board or mandated by the State Office shall not be conditioned upon a majority of the teachers. The desire of the majority shall be expressed through the Union building committee when they meet with the principal of the school (as outlined in Article III, Section 6). Disputes as to the interpretation of "Teaching Conditions" in the first sentence of this Section shall be resolved by the officers of the Union and the Superintendent. (In conformity with the principal's responsibility under state law.)
15.	The school calendar will comply with the School Code. The Union shall be consulted prior to its adoption.
16.	Certificated employees, represented by the Union who earn graduate hours shall be reimbursed for their own tuition and related fee expense by the Board to the extent of tuition and related fee expense incurred. Reimbursement shall depend upon receipt of proof of completion of a graduate course or courses by means of an official transcript from the college or university attended as furnished by the teacher. Reimbursement shall not exceed the current tuition and related fee expense rates for Illinois residents at the University of Illinois or Southern Illinois University. There shall be no reimbursement for the purchase of textbooks or other instructional materials required for courses taken.
a.	Tuition reimbursement shall be available to all bargaining unit members taking approved courses during any semester. Prior approval of courses must be obtained
6
from the Superintendent's Office before enrolling. Any-bargaining unit member receiving tuition reimbursement must remain with the District for three years after reimbursement. Transcripts must be submitted by October 31st for reimbursement.
The following reimbursement schedule shall be followed:
Grade	Reimbursement
A	100%
B	100%
C	50%
D	NONE
F or E	NONE
P	100%
(at universities where Pass and Fail are the only grades issued)
b.	Tuition reimbursement for approved courses shall be made once each year in December for courses completed during the immediate past school year and summer. Transcripts or other official documents must be on file no later than October 31st of the current year to receive reimbursement. Those transcripts received after October 31st will not be processed for reimbursement. Those receiving reimbursement shall remain in the District for a period of three years succeeding reimbursement.
17.	All job opportunities, including media specialists, supervisors, coordinators, and those in federal programs shall be listed by job title, salary, and qualifications, and shall be made available to District 189 teachers by a list posted in each school. Qualified teachers shall be considered for the positions available on a seniority basis as outlined in this Agreement, first preference given to district employees, other qualifications being equal. The provisions of this section will be void when in conflict with state or federal law. (Refer to Article III, 14b.)
18.	Teachers in school district 189 shall be notified of all new positions becoming effective due to new programs or enlarging current programs. A screening committee for the above-mentioned positions shall include members of the teaching corps, one of who shall be a Union appointed teacher.
19.	Principals - A search committee, with at least one Union-appointed teacher, shall be appointed to assist the administration in a screening of applicants for principal. The committee shall be given the opportunity to interview all candidates selected for final consideration and make recommendations to the Superintendent.
7
20.	The Board shall negotiate with local area colleges and universities for an extension of in-service training in cooperation with the colleges whereby such course work shall be recognized for the purpose of teacher certification and advanced degrees.
21.	Teachers will be assigned to permanent rooms according to actual classroom teaching seniority in any school in conformity with the principal's responsibility under state law. It may be difficult to comply with this point in certain cases. In those special cases, difficulties will be resolved through a meeting between the Superintendent or his/her designee and the union grievance committee. School seniority is outlined in Article XV of this Agreement.
22.	All teachers shall have a full-duty-free lunch period of at least thirty (30) minutes.
23.	Teachers shall be permitted to leave their school during their lunch or preparation periods. The office of the school involved shall be informed of this absence. (See Article V, Section 4.)
24.	All members shall have School Board assistance in any assault cases against them. School Board assistance shall consist of:
a.	Notifying the proper authorities on behalf of the members.
b.	Providing any legal assistance necessary by the Board Attorney.
c.	Acting on behalf of and for the protection of the member's legal rights.
d.	If, in the event a Union Attorney is provided, the School Board is not relieved of any of the above mentioned duties.
e.	The Board shall pay for a Board appointed Attorney.
f.	Discipline: Any student who allegedly commits assault and/or battery of a district employee shall be suspended pending a suspension hearing which shall be scheduled and held immediately. If as a result of said hearing it is determined that assault and/or battery was committed, the student may be recommended for the appropriate disciplinary action as provided by law.
8
25.	There shall be free admission for all union members with proper identification, to all athletic events except the State Tournament games and the Christmas Holiday Basketball Tournament. Procedures for implementation of this section shall be worked out by the administration and union.
26.	Schools shall be dismissed at 3:30 p.m. the second Thursday for everyone except Union officers and Executive Council members who will be dismissed at 3:00 p.m. for the purpose of attending professional meetings of Local 1220. Clerical employees in the Administrative Center shall attend at that time on a rotating basis.
27.	Class Size
a.	For the term of this agreement, maximum class size in K-3 shall be twenty-five (25),4-6 shall be thirty-two (32), and 7-12 shall be thirty-five (35).
b.	Speech therapists' case load shall not exceed eighty (80) pupils.
c.	Classes requiring specific student stations such as shop, typing rooms, laboratories, etc., will not exceed in number of pupils the number of student stations available. A "student station" is defined as a place in the classroom where meaningful work may be done in accordance with the assigned subject area. However, in the event of an unexpected substantial influx in the number of enrolled students, this ratio may be adjusted after an agreement with Union representatives. In the event the above occurs, class loads shall be compensated at the rates described in Article IV, Section 27d. However, no teacher shall be entitled to extra compensation for a class load under the above maximums, unless a teacher shall be assigned pupils more than four times a semester, in which event such teacher shall be paid extra compensation in accordance with the pay rate set out herein. In lab sciences, shop-, and home economics classes, the School Board will take into consideration safety factors involved in setting classes for such areas.
d.	Class size: It is agreed that the class size shall not exceed their maximum levels at any school in District 189 during the term of this agreement. The refusal to enroll students in excess of the maximum shall not be grounds for charges of insubordination.
e.	This Section is not to be enforced until after September 20th each year. This is to allow time for final
9
enrollment to be determined and equalization adjustments to take place.
28.	All permanent health and cumulative records on each pupil shall be kept on file in the central office of each building.
29.	There shall be a uniform policy on administering, grading, and recording the Constitutional test requirements which shall comply with the state laws in all schools.
30.	Before 9:00 a.m., supervisors will notify each teacher they expect to see specifying as nearly as possible, time of day, and topic of visitation.
31.	Vacations: Any certificated employee represented by Local 1220, who is employed for twelve (12) months, is entitled to two (2) weeks' of vacation each year. After ten (10) years of actual service, said employee is entitled to three (3) weeks' of vacation.
32.	All new portable buildings shall have complete restroom facilities.
33.	Jury Duty: The School Board will reimburse an employee for the difference between his/her normal earnings and the amount received for jury services, not including travel allowance for the time he/she was absent because of jury duty on showing by the employee of satisfactory evidence of the amount received for such notice, if possible. Checks received from jury duty will be turned over to the School District if the employee is not docked. The employee shall return to work on the first scheduled workday following the day that the employee is released from jury duty.
34.	School Supplies: All supplies necessary for the beginning of the school year will be provided by the Board.
35.	Head Teacher: Recommendations for head teacher shall be made by the building administrator after consultation with the staff representative of their respective schools. If there is no agreement between the staff and building administrator, the Superintendent shall render a decision. Compensation for head teacher shall be $750.00 per year.
ARTICLE V	- SPECIAL CONDITIONS
1.	The salary schedule for teachers holding earned Doctor's Degrees from accredited universities shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000) above the corresponding step on the Master's plus thirty hours (MA+30) schedule.
10
2.
Department Heads:
a.	Elections: Heads of departments shall be selected by the principal from a list of three elected by the members of each department. This election shall be held on the day of the April In-Service meeting of each year. Department heads shall serve a term of one year. Only the following department heads shall enjoy the provisions of this section:
SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL ENGLISH BUSINESS EDUCATION FINE ARTS FOREIGN LANGUAGES INDUSTRIAL ARTS AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION MATHEMATICS PHYSICAL EDUCATION SCIENCE SOCIAL STUDIES SPECIAL EDUCATION
MIDDLE SCHOOL ENGLISH MATHEMATICS SCIENCE SOCIAL STUDIES
In order for there to be Department Heads in Fine Arts and Special Education, there must exist a minimum of four (4) classes. For the purpose of this Section, Fine Arts includes music (both instrumental and vocal) and visual arts.
b.	Department Heads will perform the following services:
1)	Help to develop a uniform sequential course of study for the department.
2)	Help in an advisory capacity with building administrator to schedule teacher assignments to comply with Article IV, Section 10 of this Agreement.
3)	Help to develop professional and supplementary materials available to department members to improve teacher methods.
11
4)	Make all requisitions for supplies and materials for teachers in the department.
c.	A non-functioning department head shall be replaced through a supplemental election providing a majority of the department members and/or the building administrator desires the election.
d.	Compensation: The department heads at the senior high school level shall receive compensation of $1,800 per year and the department heads at the middle school level shall receive compensation of $1,200 per year for extra work required as outlined. Department heads may be assigned a full teaching load just as any other teacher in the department. Department heads' compensation shall be paid in two equal installments - one-half the amount in January, one-half in June.
3.	Payment of Salary:
a.	All teachers shall be paid on a twelve-month basis. Certified employees shall have the option of being paid on a semi-monthly or monthly basis per the day schedule published by the administration.
For those persons on bimonthly pay all voluntary deductions, legally permissible, shall be divided bi-monthly with written consent from parties and persons involved.
b.	Any employees who through no error on his/her own receives less than the pay to which he/she is entitled on any payroll payment date shall receive supplemental payment for underpayment provided he/she notifies her immediate supervisor who will in turn notify the payroll department of the district. This must be done by 12:00 noon of the next work day following the paydate on which the error was made.
1)	A check in the amount of the underpayment will be available to the employees of this bargaining unit no later than 12:00 noon of the second work day following the payroll date on which the error was made, provided that any necessary changes in attendance records are authorized and verified in
12
writing by the principal, or director who signed the attendance authorization which needs correction.
2)	Anyone in this unit who fails to follow the procedures in #1 shall have the necessary correction made on the next regular paycheck following the notification provided the necessary written verification has been received by the payroll department by the Monday preceding the paydate.
3)	The district shall make payment retroactive to the beginning of the contract year for all errors discovered during the contract year. Retroactive payment shall be made beyond the contract period if appropriate application has been made and documents submitted by the published deadline. This requirement is for filing a claim for increment, lane changes, advanced degrees and positions to which employees have been promoted. This will include all earnings due any certificated employee in this bargaining unit.
4.	Payment of Extra Classes:
Rotation lists shall be made up by the building administrator at the beginning of the school year. Each teacher shall be required to indicate in writing whether he or she wishes to be included on this list.
All extra classes, supervised or taught, over and above the teacher's regular schedule will be governed by posted rotation lists.
Substitutes shall be called upon first to take these extra classes. Teachers taking class responsibilities other than those outlined in Article IV, Section 10, shall be compensated as follows:
a.	General:
1)	The pay rate will be $15.00 per hour.
2)	Time worked during one month will be paid the following month.
3)	Non-certified personnel shall never be used to teach classes.
4)	Whenever a teacher is directed to take a class by the administration, the teacher will be paid at the agreed rate.
13
5)	If a teacher receives permission from the office to make arrangements for his or her classes to be covered for an approved personal reason, this involves no compensation.
6)	If any unforeseen situation arises not covered by this Agreement, a joint meeting of the fiscal committee and administration shall be called to make a decision agreeable to both parties.
7)	In an emergency, a teacher shall accept a class assignment as directed by the building administrator.
b.	Elementary:
1)	Doubling up exists when the majority of an unsupervised, unassigned class is divided or when a teacher accepts students from another unsupervised class resulting in his normal class enrollment being exceeded. However, no teacher shall be entitled to extra compensation for a class load under the maximum size set out herein, unless a teacher shall be assigned pupils in addition to his/her regularly assigned pupils more than four times per semester in which event such teacher shall be paid compensation in accordance with the pay rate set out herein.
2)	When a class has to be divided, the following shall be observed:
a)	Division of classes will be as close to grade level as possible. Children shall be re-grouped and distributed to other teachers by levels as follows:
1)	Primary
2)	Intermediate
3)	Upper
b)	Classes shall be divided into a minimum of two groups, maximum of four groups.
c)	More than fifteen (15) students shall not be added to a class except in unusual circumstances.
d)	The compensation for covering classes when no substitute is available shall be:
1)
2)
3)
4)
Full class
One-half class
One-fourth class
$75.00
$37.50
$18.75
Covering for partial days shall 14
be at the rate of $15.00 per hour.
3)	Split Grade Levels:
It is the policy of School District 189 to provide the best education for its students. Recognizing the importance of instruction in achieving this objective, the Board shall eliminate Split Grade Levels effective at the end of the 1996-97 school year.
c.	Middle School and Senior High
1)	Teachers shall be paid at the rate of $15.00 per hour.
2)	Teachers without homeroom assignments will take homeroom vacancies without compensation when requested by the principal.
3)	It is mandatory that a teacher accepts the class assignment as directed by the principal in accordance with the posted rotation roster, unless prior notification and approval has been arranged.
4)	If a teacher starts teaching a class and a substitute arrives while the class is still in session, the teacher shall stay and complete the class.
5)	Any programming quirks that result in a teacher not receiving five (5) preparation periods per week, that teacher will receive compensation for each period lost at the rate specified in Article V, Section 4-a, Subsection I.
6)	To the extent possible, class assignments will be made within a department or related field.
5.	Co-Curricular Activities:
a.	Teacher participation in all co-curricular activities shall be voluntary.
b.	Definition: Co-curricular activities shall be defined as activities participated in after regular school hours on a regular basis.
c.	Participation in Athletics: Participation in athletic events such as ticket taking, ticket selling or any other job a teacher must handle at an athletic event, shall be compensated at a flat rate of ten dollars ($10.00) per session at the senior high level, and seven dollars
15
($7.00) at the middle school level. In order to insure proper enforcement of this paragraph, a teacher/student worker ration of 1 to 3 shall exist. No student shall be given a job at athletic events where safety and responsibility indicate that a teacher should fill the position.
d.	It is desirable that teachers donate their services at commencement exercises and open house. (Refer to Board Policy 32,30-3).
e.	Co-curricular Activities:
1)	All clubs or activity organizations covered by this article must be approved annually by the Superintendent and submitted for final approval by the Board of Education before compensation is granted.
2)	Each teacher who sponsors a special interest club or group, or an activity or service organization at the senior high level (Example: Pep Club, Newspaper, Yearbook, Student Council) shall have either thirty (30) minutes released time or $300 per year compensation with a maximum number of 15 sponsors being eligible.
3)	a) Cheerleader and pom-pon sponsors must attend and be responsible for cheerleaders and pom-pon squad members at all scheduled athletic events.
b)	Middle school cheerleader and pom-pon sponsors shall be compensated at the rate of $425.00 per year.
c)	Senior High cheerleader and pom-pon sponsors shall be compensated at the rate of $1,000.00 per year.
4)	School personnel will be guided by the Co-curricular Policy established for School District 189, effective August 1978.
6.	Incoming Teachers:
a.	Full-time experience in Illinois: Incoming teachers with full-time previous public school experience in the State of Illinois shall be given full salary schedule credit for experience taught in Illinois public schools.
However, notwithstanding the forgoing, an incoming teacher shall not begin above Step 6 on the salary schedule.
16
b.	Out of State previous experience: Incoming teachers shall be given a salary credit for previous public school experience outside the State of Illinois to the extent that full salary credit shall be given for experience for each year taught in out-of-state public schools.
However, notwithstanding the forgoing, an incoming teacher shall not begin above Step 6 on the salary schedule.
7.	Activities - Field Trip Committee:
School personnel will be guided by Co-Curricular Policy established for School District 189, effective August, 1978.
8.	Rotation of Homeroom Assignments:
Homeroom assignments shall be rotated among all teachers, in a building. All teachers should have the opportunity and experience of homeroom attendance and professional growth.
9.	Comfort Index:
When the combined temperature and humidity reaches 90 degrees or above producing a heat alert, the principal or his/her designee shall call the Board of Education for directives.
The same principal shall apply when alerts are given for other inclement weather conditions.
10.	Student Attendance Registers:
Beginning with the 1999-2000 school year, all student attendance at the secondary level shall be computerized. Computerized attendance shall result in the elimination of recording attendance in school registers. Computerized attendance shall be implemented at all other student attendance centers as soon as it becomes economically feasible.
11.	Report of Students' Grades
There shall be five (5) working days following the end of each grading period before student progress reports.
12.	Effective with the beginning of the 2000-2001 school year, the District shall establish a program for all non-certified bargaining unit members seeking- to become certified teachers.
13.	Non-certified bargaining unit members employed by the District shall be given a two-week notice prior to the posting of any available teaching position.
17
ARTICLE VI - ATHLETICS
Positions:
Senior High School
Athletic Director Head Football Assistant Football Head Boys Basketball Assistant Boys Basketball Head Girls Basketball Head Boys Track Assistant Boys Track Head Girls Track Assistant Girls Track Head Wrestling Assistant Wrestling Head Boys Baseball Assistant Boys Baseball Head Girls Softball Assistant Girls Softball Boys Tennis Girls Tennis Girls Volleyball Soccer Field Hockey Cross Country Golf
Middle school
Head Football Assistant Football Head Boys Basketball Assistant Boys Basketball Head Girls Basketball Assistant Girls Basketball Head Boys Track Assistant Boys Track Head Girls Track Assistant Girls Track Cross Country Girls Volleyball
Salary: See-Salary Schedules, Section Athletics.
Appointment of Coaches and Athletic Directors:
a.	No person shall hold more than two (2) positions at any time, either as Head Coach, Assistant Coach or Athletic Director.
18
b.	If a coach is not to be rehired, he shall be notified by the Board of Education prior to the closing of the school year.
c.	Head coaches must be recommended by the principal, after consultation with the athletic director at the senior high level.
d.	Assistant coaches shall be hired and retained only by the recommendations of the principal, after consultation with the athletic director, and the head coach of the sport concerned.
e.	Athletic directors shall receive in addition to their regular unassigned period one (1) released period per day for the purpose of carrying out his duties.
4.	Method of payment to coaches:
All coaches' pay shall be included with the teaching salary paycheck and will be spread over twelve equal parts.
5.	Middle school Athletics:
a.	A meeting shall be held in September with the physical education department head, Middle school principals, and coaches for the purpose of interpreting rules and regulations regarding middle school athletic contests.
b.	Middle school athletics shall be based upon the rules of the Illinois High School Association, with special attention being called to the age eligibility requirements.
c.	Money shall be allotted in School District 189 physical education budget for the purchase of trophies to be awarded to the first and second place teams in which competition is held in the East St. Louis Middle School Conference.
d.	The budget for the purchase of athletic equipment and supplies for the Middle School shall be appropriate for the activities.
e.	Coaching Load: No middle school coach shall be assigned to coach more than two (2) sports, either as head coach or assistant coach.
f.	In the event a middle school vacancy occurs that cannot be filled, coaches may coach three (3) sports.
19
g.	A phone shall be provided in the coaching office for the use of the coach to carry out his duties and responsibilities related to athletic activities.
ARTICLE VII	- SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR ELEMENTARY
1.	The Board and the Union agree that every effort must be made to departmentalize grades 4 through 6.
2.	The Administration agrees that nurses should be available in the elementary school and will work toward this goal.
3.	Newly constructed schools shall have instructional materials center when possible.
4.	The school day shall include thirty (30) minutes of preparation time for all teachers, except those in non-teaching duty assignments.
ARTICLE VIII	- SPECIAL EDUCATION
1.	Class Size:
The class size of Special education classes shall be limited to the following maximums:
a.	Educable Mentally Handicapped - fifteen (15) students.
b.	Team Teaching - twenty-five (25) students.
c.	Physically Handicapped - fifteen (15) students.
d.	Trainable Mentally Handicapped - ten (10) students.
e.	Oral Deaf - twelve (12) students.
f.	Learning	Disabilities	-	fifteen	(15) students.
g.	Behavior	Disorders
h.	Socially	Maladjusted
i.	Multiple	Handicapped
j.	Resource	- fifteen (15)	students.
2.	Differential:
The differential paid in Special Education shall be $300.00 for all teachers employed by the district prior to June 7, 1976.
3.	As a matter of courtesy the administrator in charge of Special Education shall make every effort to notify the teacher prior to the removal of a child from the classroom and to hold a conference when possible.
4.	Teaching Day for TMH Teachers:
The school day for TMH children shall be from 8:30a.m. to 3:40p.m. depending upon the class assignment. Teachers of
20
classes which do not include work-study in the curriculum shall end the school day at 2:40p.m. and the lunch hour shall be spent with the children and this activity included as part of the teaching curriculum. (This is part of the five-(5) hour teaching day). Teachers of classes which include a work-study program will observe the 8:30a.m. to 3:40p.m. school day. One-half of their children shall receive classroom instruction from 9:00a.m. to 11:30a.m. and the other half from 12:30p.m. to 3:40p.m. These children spend one-half of the school day in a work program.
5.	All EMH Teachers shall be given a 48-hour notice before conferences are held on placement problems of students when possible.
ARTICLE IX	- ATTENDANCE OFFICERS
1.	Salary Schedule- See Appendix
2.	Car Allowance:
Attendance officers shall be compensated at the rate of $4.50 per day for each day worked.
ARTICLE X	- COUNSELORS AND SOCIAL WORKERS
1.	Counselors:
All provisions of this Agreement shall apply equally to all District 189 Counselors.
2.	Social Workers:
a.	All provisions of this Agreement shall apply equally to all District 189 Social Workers.
b.	The differential paid social workers shall be $200.00 for all school social workers employed by the district prior to June 7, 1976.
ARTICLE XI	- SCHOOL NURSES
1.	All school nurses holding a Type 73 Certificate with the School Nurse Endorsement who are presently employed or newly employed shall be placed on the professional salary scale which is commensurate with the current teachers' salary scale.
2.	School nurses employed or transferred from within School District 189 who meet all requirements for Type 73 certification except the school nurse internship:
21
a.	Shall be employed as school nurse interns.
b.	Shall be placed on professional salary scale as in Item 1.
c.	Shall be employed as school nurse intern for only one school year prior to certification.
3.	Non-Degree School Nurses presently employed:
a.	Shall be paid on the Vocational Salary Schedule
b.	Shall be placed on the professional salary scale according to their years of service as school nurses in School District 189 when the Type 73 Certificate with School Nurse Endorsement is obtained.
4.	Previous experience shall be granted to newly employed school nurses who have full-time experience as defined in Article V, Section 6.
5.	Case Load:
a.	A school nurse-pupil ratio shall range from 1:1000 but shall not exceed 1:2000 except in individual buildings where the student population is greater. In such cases where the nurse-pupil ratio in one school exceeds 1:2000, then a health aid shall be employed to assist in non-professional activities.
b.	Geographical distribution shall be a consideration in assignments.
c.	School nurses shall be responsible for maintaining and recording all health records. When necessary other school personnel may be required to assist in recording health records.
6.	All provisions of this Agreement shall apply equally to all school nurses in School District 189.
ARTICLE XII	- VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND FEDERAL PROJECTS
1.	All provisions of the Agreement shall apply equally to all teachers in Vocational Education Program of District 189.
2.	All provisions of this Agreement shall apply equally to all teachers in the Federal Projects of District 189.
ARTICLE XIII - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR MUSIC EDUCATION TEACHERS
1.	Band, Choral and Orchestra teachers receive additional compensation as specified in the salary schedules in this contract. This additional compensation is for preparing and
22
participating in music programs, contests, festivals, parades, etc.
2.	A participation schedule for the various activities will be developed by music instructors, the principal and the Director of Music Education.
3.	Minimum requirements of participation are:
a.	Band/Middle school and Senior High Levels
1)	Three concerts per year.
2)	Representation in all local, county and state contests.
3)	Participation in area parades.
b.	Orchestra
1)	Three concerts per year.
2)	Representation in all local, county and state contests.
c.	Choral/Middle school and Senior High Levels
1)	Three concerts per year.
2)	Participation in all local, county, and state choral contests.
4.	Additional compensation should not be paid to any person who does not meet the requirements of section three (3), except when prevented by circumstances over which participants have no control as determined by the Superintendent.
5.	This additional compensation will be included with the teaching salary paycheck and will be spread over twelve equal parts.
ARTICLE XIV - WELFARE BENEFITS AND LEAVES
1.	Insurance
a.	The Board shall purchase hospitalization and life insurance in the coverage, amounts and benefits as specified in the schedule of benefits attached hereto for all bargaining unit members. Additional Medical benefits shall be added as per Exhibit "A" Comprehensive Dental Care Program shall be provided as per Exhibit "B" for the 2003-2004 school year.
b.	For the 2003-2004 school year, dependent health care coverage shall be available for each employee of the
23
bargaining unit at a cost of 100% of the rate for such coverage.
The employer shall establish on or before October 31, 1996, a cafeteria plan as per Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable rules and regulations of the Internal Revenue Service. Under this plan, employees who elect to receive dependent coverage shall have the premium amount deducted from gross income prior to tax deductions and tax sheltered. The amount of the cost of dependent premiums shall not be taxable income.
c.	A labor management conference will be made available between parties to this agreement to study and ascertain feasibility and cost structures of health insurance plan restructuring and/or policy level changes and modifications.
COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH CARE PROGRAM - SCHEDULE (Exhibit A)
Summary of Medical Benefits
Calendar Year Deductible.....
Family Maximum...............
Maximum Benefit..............
Paid in Full.................
Reimbursement Basis..........
Out-Patient Surgical Expenses Maternity....................
$150.00 per person 3 Deductibles per family
$1,000,000 per insured's lifetime First $5,000 for hospital charges 80% for all covered charges including out-patient care. (See out-patient surgical Expenses). Reimbursed at 100% Same as any other illness
Summary of Items Considered as Covered Charges
Physical Charges...................... Physician charges for
office visits provided a medical condition requiring diagnosis exists.
Surgery............................... Surgical procedures
performed during in-patient hospital confinement are reimbursable at 80% up to the reasonable
24
and customary charge for the procedure performed. Outpatient surgical procedures are reimbursed 100%.
Prescription Drugs..................... Provided	the drugs are
prescribed by a physician
Local Ambulance Services............... Provided	on emergency
basis
Private Duty Nursing................... Registered	Nurse in or
out-of-hospital Licensed Practical Nurse in a hospital
Medical appliances, casts, splints, crutches, rental of wheel chairs and hospital-type beds.
Stop Loss Provision...................
Student Dependent Coverage Length . .
Dental Coverage.......................
Covered charges will be reimbursed at 100% once an insured individual incurs out-of-pocket expenses of $1,000 in a calendar year.
Covered charges will be reimbursed at 100% for the remainder of the calendar year.
Coverage for full-time students until age 25 Complete
Conversion of the Health Insurance after age 65 or retirement. Comprehensive Major Medical
COMPREHENSIVE DENTAL CARE PROGRAM (Exhibit B)
Calendar Year Deductible.........
Family Maximum...................
Maximum Benefit..................
Maximum Orthodontic Benefit......
Maximum Periodontal Benefit......
$50 per person
3 deductibles per family $2,000 per calendar year $2,000 per lifetime $2,000 per lifetime
Reimbursement Basis
80% pay for Basic and Preventative treatment
60% pay for Dentures, Bridges, Gold fillings Gold Onlay and Inlays.
50% pay for Orthodontic Appliances and Treatment
25
(maximum coverage allowed by carrier) *Note: The deductible is waived for preventative treatment.
Summary of Items considered as Covered charges
Preventative Care................ Diagnosis,	X-rays and
prophylactics, oral exam, sealing and polishing, (Limited to 2 treatments per calendar year.)
Basic Care....................... Extractions, filling other
than gold, root canal, therapy, periodontal treatment, prescription drugs, oral surgery and repair of dentures and bridgework.
Major Care....................... Inlays, onlays, crowns,
gold fillings, full or partial dentures or fixed bridgework required as a result of an extraction, orthodontic care and treatment.
Dependent Health and Dental Coverage shall be paid by the employee.
The Dependent rate for the Dental Coverage shall be payroll deductible.
2.	Leaves:
Officially granted leaves shall not affect contractual continued service. Leaves shall only be granted to teachers who have at least three (3) years' service and tenure in District 189.
3.	Extended Sick Leave:
Any person who expects to be absent five (5) days or more should notify his or her immediate supervisor and the Director of Personnel in writing. Nothing contained herein shall prevent a person from returning to work earlier than their expected date of return.
4.	Personal Leave:
a.	Personal Leave Day
26
Members shall be entitled to two (2) days per year for personal business. They shall suffer no loss in pay nor shall they lose any of their accumulative sick leave. The principal of the school shall be notified by the teacher applying for personal business leave, except that not less than one teacher nor more than 10% of the teachers assigned to any attendance center may be granted personal leave on any one day. Furthermore, except that not less than one or more than 5% of the teachers assigned to any one attendance center may be granted personal leave any day that grades are to be issued. Any unused personal leave day may be added to the accumulative sick leave.
b.	Benevolent Leave
There shall be a three (3) day leave for death in the immediate family of the members. Immediate family being defined as husband, wife, parents, and/or guardian, brothers, sisters, children, and grandparents, all of whom may be by marriage or blood; however, the Board may reguire proof of the necessity of the use of such day. The granting of personal leave days on account of death in the family shall be uniform to all employees and no employee or group of employees shall be given death leaves in addition to those granted members by virtue of this agreement.
5.	Accumulated Sick Leave:
a.	There shall be unlimited accumulated number of sick days at a rate of twelve (12) days per year. For all twelve (12) month employees, the same shall be at the rate of twelve (12) days per year.
b.	Out of those sick leave days for which a person is not paid, they shall be added to longevity for retirement purposes as prescribed by law.
c.	The sick leave herein above awarded the teachers in the amount of twelve days at full pay in each school year, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the school code. There shall be no loss of days accumulated before this agreement. Accumulated sick leave shall be paid in severance pay when a teacher retires or leaves the system. Severance pay shall be egual to 25% of the accumulated sick leave up to a maximum of 180 days for those teachers with 11 to 15 years of service to the School District; 50% of the accumulated sick leave up to a maximum of 180 days for those teachers with 16-19 years of service to the School District; and 75% of the accumulated sick leave up to a maximum of 180 days for
27
those teachers with 20 or more years of service to the School District. This means that the maximum number of days paid to a bargaining unit member as defined in Article III, Section la shall be 135 days. The rate of pay for each day shall be the employee's daily rate of pay on the date of the letter announcing their retirement or resignation. Bargaining unit members defined in Article III, Section la who submit an irrevocable letter of retirement may elect to receive such pay in equal amounts over a 36 or less months period immediately preceding their retirement. As an alternative, bargaining unit member may receive the total of their severance in amounts that represent not less than a 20% increase over the prior year's salary (providing that the bargaining unit member has sufficient funds available) in each of the last three (3) school years preceding the announced date of their retirement.
d.	Persons exercising this option shall forfeit those accumulated sick days used as a basis for determining the amount of severance pay. Said employees exercising the option of this provision shall have available only those days in which no compensation was received and those granted as per this agreement for the remaining period of their employment.
e.	Accumulated sick leave shall be paid in severance pay when a non-certified employee represented by Local 1220 retires in accordance with the following provisions:
1)	The employee has worked for District 189 for twenty (20) years and is going to draw Illinois Retirement Benefits. The employee has attained age sixty-five (65) , has worked for District 189 for fifteen (15) years and is going to draw Illinois Retirement Benefits.
2)	Severance pay shall be 75% of accumulated sick leave days with 180 days being the maximum total of days that may be multiplied by the 75% factor.
3)	The 75% of up to 180 days would be added to the employee's base salary the last 24 or less months preceding the announced date of their retirement.
Persons exercising this option shall receive in equal payments an amount equal to 100% of their total payment for unused sick leave available at the time that the official letter of retirement is received. Payments shall commence the first month following the submission of the Letter of Retirement. Said persons shall forfeit those accumulated sick days used as a basis for
28
determining the amount of severance pay. Employees exercising the option of this provision shall have available only those days in which no compensation was received and those granted as per this agreement for the remaining period of their employment.
The employee shall notify the Board in writing at least one month prior to exercising the option in 5e(3) above.
6.	Sabbatical Leave
Teachers, after completion of at least six (6) years of satisfactory service on a full-time basis, shall be eligible for a sabbatical leave as outlined in the pertinent section of the Illinois School Code. The procedure for this is as follows:
a.	Leave shall be granted to a maximum of twelve teachers per year in each of the following categories if qualified applicants are available.
Full time service:
1)	Six (6) through eleven (11) years.................. 4
2)	Twelve (12) through seventeen (17) years........... 4
3)	Eighteen (18) through twenty-four (24) years....... 4
If the maximum number is not attained in one or more of the above categories, the quota may be filled from the remaining categories. In case of an excess of twelve (12) approved applicants, the remaining qualified applicants shall be assigned two (2) priority numbers.
One (1) primary number for their category and one overall priority number. In the event of a cancellation in a particular category, an applicant for that category would be considered first, and on the basis of their category priority number. If a cancellation occurs in a category with no excess, the overall priority number shall be considered.
b.	A Sabbatical Leave Plan must be submitted with a sabbatical leave request form to the Union Sabbatical Leave Committee Chairman and to the Office of the Superintendent. Request forms may be secured from the Office of the Superintendent.
c.	A Sabbatical Leave Committee shall review plans and the majority of the committee shall make recommendations of acceptance. This committee shall consist of: Appointed by the Superintendent -three (3) administrators.
Appointed by Union President- four (4) teachers, one (1) 29
each from the following areas: high school, middle school, elementary school, and special education. The superintendent or his/her designee shall chair the committee. He shall not serve in a voting capacity. Members of this committee shall not be changed during the school year except by mutual agreement.
d.	Applications must be received by registered letter on or before January 16th; and the recommendations made to the Board at the March School Board meeting for approval.
e.	The committee shall render its judgment on the basis of benefit of the plan to the school district and on the seniority of the applicant as outlined in Article XIV.
f.	Teachers returning from a pre-arranged sabbatical leave shall be placed in the same room of the same school in which they were previously teaching or position of equal stature.
g.	This does not preclude the Board from granting sabbaticals to other groups of employees covered by the School Code.
h.	Teachers who are on sabbatical leave shall receive their regular salary minus the expenses incurred for substitute services for one year.
7.	The Union shall select a Union member to serve in the position of staff assistant for a maximum period of ten (10) school days per year. The staff assistant(s) shall engage in official Union activity. When the staff assistant is requested by the Timerican Federation of Teachers or the Illinois Federation of Teachers to perform field work, the staff assistant shall notify the Superintendent or his/her designee, and shall have the right to carry out these duties. It is understood that the selected person's pay shall be deducted for each day of absence from the district.
8.	Retirement Incentive Plan: The parties agree to form a committee to develop and recommend for implementation an Early Retirement Incentive Plan.
ARTICLE XV	- SENIORITY
1.	System-wide seniority shall be the length of service as an actual classroom teacher in the system.
2.	Building seniority shall be the length of service as an actual classroom teacher in the present building.
30
3.	Where length of service as an actual classroom teacher in the system is equal, the date of appointment shall be the determining factor.
4.	Building seniority shall be superseded by system-wide seniority in all cases except as outlined in Section 5 below.
5.	Within any one building, room assignments and other building privileges shall be determined by building seniority only, except where educational processes would be hampered thereby.
6.	Each building shall maintain a list showing the building seniority of each teacher. The list shall be available to all teachers.
7.	The Superintendent of Schools shall make available to any teacher his system-wide seniority as it may affect or contribute to the resolution of any specific problem.
8.	Under no circumstances shall any teacher transferring into School District 189 from any other district, county, or state be placed higher on the school or system-wide seniority list than a teacher already having seniority in the School District or any other building therein.
9.	Subject field, teacher qualification shall be a determining factor, as well as seniority, for room assignments.
10.	If for any reason it becomes necessary for the Board to eliminate and/or reduce programs or staff, the procedures used in determining which cuts are to be made will be determined by the Board after consultation with the Union.
a) Recall rights are granted for a period of one (1) year. Notice of recall for available positions shall be by certified mail or registered letter.
ARTICLE XVI	- TRANSFER POLICY
1.	Involuntary Transfer:
No teacher who has tenure shall be transferred without his consent. A Non-tenured teacher may be transferred involuntarily if the following conditions are met:
a.	There shall be no transfer except at the beginning of each school year.
b.	There shall be seventy-five (75) days' notice of the transfer, and shall be written and mailed to the transferee and shall include the name of the school to
31
which he is to be transferred, subjects or grade he is to teach, and the reasons for the transfer.
2.	Voluntary Transfer:
a.	If a teacher consents to a request to transfer, or requests a transfer to a position for which he is qualified by teacher experience or certification; and
b.	If more than one teacher shall apply for the same position, the teacher who shall accumulate the most points under the following point system shall be awarded the transfer:
1)	One-fourth (1/4) of one point shall be given for each semester hour over twenty (20) semester hours in the field for which the teacher is applying.
2)	One (1) point shall be given for each year of actual classroom teaching experience in the field for which the teacher is applying.
3)	No teacher may be awarded more than one transfer every three (3) years.
3.	Special Provision Upon Elimination of Departments, Schools or Grades:
When an entire department, or school or grade is eliminated because of reduction in enrollment, or moving out of the unit to another school, the teachers within that department, school or grade may be transferred without their consent, but only to positions for which the teacher is qualified by teacher experience unless otherwise agreed by the transferee.
4.	Transfers of Personnel for the Purpose of Staffing New Schools:
Teachers transferred to staff a new building shall be transferred on a voluntary basis. District seniority shall be the determining factor for any such transfer; however, the transferring teacher must be educationally qualified for the respective position to be filled. Educational qualification shall be determined by major field and/or actual classroom teaching experience in a particular field. Under no circumstances shall the staff of an existing school be depleted by more than 50% of the teaching faculty in any one department.
32
ARTICLE XVII
SUMMER SCHOOL
1.	All teacher employment opportunities for all summer school programs shall be posted in each department, building, or federal project location sixty (60) days before commencement of such programs or within one week following approval of such program.
2.	All teachers desiring employment in any summer school program must submit applications on or before the first Friday of May, or within one week of the posting of such program. Such applications must include the computation of the teacher's points according to the provisions of this article.
3.	When there are more applications from teachers for summer school programs to be conducted within any department, building, or federal project than there are available positions, then, and in that event, the positions shall be filled from a list of teachers so applying to be established for each applicant on this list shall be determined according to the point system established in No. 4 of this article set out for the summer of 1972.
Each teacher shall, after having filled a summer school position in any year commencing with the summer school session for 1972 be rotated to the bottom of the said list. Not again to fill such a summer school position until all of those teachers ahead of such teacher on said list shall have had the opportunity to fill a summer school position. There shall be a separate rotation list for primary, intermediate, and upper grades in the elementary school: primary being K-2, intermediate being 3-4, and upper being 5-6.
4.	Point System:
a.	Elementary Schools
The following point system shall be the determinative for summer school employment within grade level:
1)	One (1) point shall be given for each year of actual classroom teaching experience in the grade level for which the teacher is applying.
2)	One (1) point shall be given for each year taught in District 189.
3)	If any person attains the same number of points using the above criteria, the following procedure will be utilized:
33
One (1) point shall be given for each semester hour over twenty (20) semester hours in the field for which the teacher is applying.
b.	Middle school and Senior High Schools:
The following point system shall be the determinative for summer school employment within departments:
1)	One (1) point shall be given for each year of actual class room teaching experience in the field for which the teacher is applying.
2)	One (1) point shall be given for each year taught in District 189.
3)	One-fourth (1/4) of one point shall be given for each semester hour over twenty (20) semester hours in the field for which the teacher is applying.
4)	A person's major or minor field will be used when necessary in assigning persons for summer school employment. The major field will take preference.
5.	No person will work in more than one program in the summer school session.
6.	In no instance will a substitute or transient teacher take priority over the regular teachers in a building. A transient teacher or a substitute teacher may fill a position in the school if he is qualified and if all the regular teachers in that building have been employed. District 189 regular teaching personnel shall be given preference over substitutes and transient teachers.
7.	Special Programs: All persons who are presently employed in a special program which serves the District throughout the school year will have first preference for summer openings in said program. Any other persons applying for summer school employment in a program of this nature will receive second preference, if qualified in the particular area for which he is applying. All other programs will fill vacancies on the point system outlined above.
8.	Summer School Pay: Summer school pay shall be at the rate of $20.00 per hour for all certified employees.
9.	Summer school teachers shall receive their first pay on the last teaching day of June, and their last pay no later than one week after the end of the summer school program.
34
10.	The Board shall post this entire section relative to Summer school Programs on each school, building or department bulletin board no later than sixty (60) days before the commencement of any summer school program, or within one week following approval of such program.
ARTICLE XVIII
Grievance Procedure:
a. Definitions
1)	A grievance is a complaint involving a work situation in which there exists a lack of policy, a policy or practice that is improper or unfair, or that there has been a deviation from or the misinterpretation or misapplication of a practice for policy, or that there has been a violation, misapplication, inequitable or otherwise improper application of any provision of this Agreement and/or policy of this School District.
2)	Whenever the term "school" is used, it is to include any building, part of a building, or room in which classes are being held and instruction being given by District 189 teachers. Whenever the term "teacher" is used, it is to include all person represented by the Union as outlined in Article III, Section 1 of this Agreement.
3)	Failure of the Board to observe time limits set forth herein, shall cause the grievance to move to the next step unless time limits are mutually extended.
b.	Procedure for Adjustment of Grievance
1)	Informal Conference
An employee represented by Local 1220 with a complaint or grievance against the School District shall first discuss the matter with the principal of the school where the employee is employed (or supervisor if the employee is not employed at a building supervised by a principal) in the presence of the building representative (or some other Union representative) with the object of resolving the matter informally. If the matter is not so resolved, the following procedure shall be instituted.
Step 1	Within forty-five (45) calendar days of the
occurrence giving rise to the complaint or grievance, the Union Grievance Committee will serve a copy of
35
the complaint, upon the principal (or other supervisor, if applicable) and upon the Superintendent of Schools.
Step 2	Within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of such
grievance or complaint the Grievance Committee or representative thereof and the Superintendent shall meet at a time selected by the Union Grievance Committee for the purpose of resolving the complaint or grievance. The Superintendent shall have the right to name an alternate meeting date for the meeting to be held no later than fifteen (15) days of receipt of the grievance.
Step 3	If the complaint or grievance is not resolved at the
aforesaid meeting to the satisfaction of the Grievance Committee, the Superintendent, no later than fifteen (15) days after said meeting, shall notify the aggrieved employee and the Grievance Committee of his proposed disposition of the grievance, in writing.
Step 4	In the event the Grievance Committee and the
aggrieved employee are not satisfied with the Superintendent's proposed disposition of the complaint or grievance, the Grievance Committee shall, in writing notify the School Board of a date upon which the Union Committee and the School Board shall meet with the object of resolving the complaint or grievance. The School Board shall have the right to name an alternate meeting date for such meeting to be held no later than fifteen (15) days after receipt of the notification from the Grievance Committee.
Step 5	If the complaint or grievance is not resolved at the
aforesaid meeting to the satisfaction of the Grievance Committee, the School Board shall within seven (7) days of the said meeting notify the aggrieved employee and the Grievance Committee of its proposed disposition of the grievance or complaint, in writing.
The School Board shall in proposed disposition of the grievance or complaint include the reasons why it believes its proposed disposition should be accepted by the aggrieved employee and the Grievance Committee.
Step 6	If the grievance or complaint concerns the
administration or interpretation of this Agreement and if the proposed disposition of the complaint or grievances not satisfactory to the Grievance
36
Committee, the Union may submit the dispute, within thirty (30) days of the date of the Board's proposed disposition or of the grievance or complaint, to arbitration by applying to the American Arbitration Association of the Illinois Educational Labor Relation Board. Such arbitration shall follow the rules of the American Arbitration Association or shall be limited to the jurisdiction set forth by Illinois law for arbitration. Any decision rendered by the arbitrator within his jurisdiction to make shall be binding upon both parties. Either party may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of enforcing the decision of the arbitrator.
c.	Variations in Grievance Procedure
1.	If the complaint or grievance arises from an action of an authority higher than the principal (or supervisor if the employee is not employed at a building supervised by a principal), such complaint or grievance may proceed to Step 2 of the Procedure for Adjustment of Grievance.
ARTICLE XIX	- FISCAL COMMITTEE
The Union Fiscal Committee shall work directly with the Fiscal Department of the District in preparing budgets. All budgetary income and expenditures shall be discussed by the Fiscal Department with the Fiscal Committee and with the Superintendent before being submitted to the Board for approval.
ARTICLE XX	- CLERICAL EMPLOYEES
A.	Hours:
1)	Any employee called to work for any time other than his/her regular scheduled hours shall be paid for such hours at the rate of time and one-half. All work performed on holidays and after five (5) consecutive days shall be paid for at the rate of double time the regular rate. It shall be violation of this Agreement for any employee to be laid off to offset overtime. When an employee is requested to work overtime, it must be on a voluntary basis.
2)	Elementary clerks having qualifications for job openings will have first chance at any summer employment anywhere in the District. Notices shall go out to all clerical employees of said openings.
37
3)	Clerks, stenographers, middle school secretaries, and other office employees shall be on duty from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Monday through Friday except from the closing of school until the opening of school in the fall except on Union meeting day when school is not in session, the hours will be 8:30 a.m. until 4:00 p.m.
EXCEPTION: All elementary clerks shall be on duty from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday from September through June except on union meeting day.
4)	Non-certified personnel (Clerks, stenographers, bookkeepers, etc.) shall be granted periodical in-service meetings and workshop.
5)	Any office employee who fails to report for service at 8:00 a.m. shall be considered absent and a substitute called to take charge of his/her duties for the day. Deduction in pay shall be made. This regulation shall not apply to an office employee who has notified his/her immediate supervisor before 8:00 a.m. that he/she will be late for a justifiable reason. When school is not in session reporting shall be at 8:30 a.m.
6)	At no time will it be acceptable to Local 1220 to have split shifts.
7)	All clerks, stenographers, secretaries, bookkeepers, and senior accounting technicians shall work the same number of days as their supervising administrator. Middle school secretaries are employed for twelve months.
B.	Seniority:
1)	No employee shall acquire seniority status until he/she has served a ninety (90) working day probationary period. After he/she worked ninety (90) days, his/her seniority shall start from the time of his/her first day of work. The Board of Education shall keep up-to-date lists of workers which will be furnished to the Local President, and the Union shall be notified of all changes. Each school shall maintain a list showing the school seniority of each office employee. The list shall be available to all office employees.
2)	Whenever a vacancy occurs, a bid sheet shall be posted immediately for all office employees of District 189 allowing all regular employees ten (10) days in which to bid on said vacancy before accepting applications from the public. In the event qualifications are necessary of said vacancy in cases of equal qualifications, the employee having more seniority shall be awarded the job.
38
In the event no bids are received for the vacancy, an employee on the unassigned list will be assigned the vacancy, providing qualifications are met in thirty (30) days. After bidding and accepting a position, his/her old job will be held open for thirty (30) days for a trial at the new job. (Section XVII of Teachers' Agreement).
3)	Any employee coming into District 189 shall be placed on the first step of the salary schedule unless previous experience justified otherwise. The maximum shall be the fifth step. Previous experience shall be defined as experience in the area and competency for the job opening.
4)	Elementary clerks shall be employed from the opening day of school plus two (2) weeks before the opening day and two (2) weeks after the closing of school.
5)	All employees in the middle school and senior high school offices must be hired on an annual basis.
6)	In promotions, lay-offs or transfers, seniority shall be given preference along with the ability to work in the changed situation. Seniority or length of service shall prevail, providing the employee has sufficient qualifications to perform the task provided. If for any reason it becomes necessary for the Board to eliminate and/or reduce programs or staff, the procedures used in determining which cuts are to be made will be determined by the Board after consultation with the Union. (Article V of this Agreement).
C.	Leaves:
1)	Employees with three (3) years' seniority with the District shall accumulate seniority for all of the time they are on granted leave. Three (3) years of continuous service will be necessary to apply for leaves of absence without any loss of seniority.
D.	Pay Periods:
1)	All employees shall be paid holiday pay for any holiday occurring during his/her vacation time or any additional day off that the Board has authorized for the District. All employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid their vacation upon request to the Superintendent's Office at least fifteen (15) days prior to leaving.
2)	All clerical employees shall be paid on a semi-monthly basis.
39
3)	Elementary clerks working during summer will be paid their regular rate of pay during the year.
4)	Wage increments shall be given in August of each year to those working less than twelve (12) months. (Fiscal year).
5)	Elementary clerks shall be placed on annual salary scale. The salary shall be set for the school year according to the Board's calendar.
E. Vacations:
1)	Employees who have not been in the continuous employ of the Board for twelve (12) months shall receive one (1) day vacation with pay for each twenty-two (22) days of service rendered prior to September 1st of each year, not to exceed ten (10) days.
2)	Elementary clerks shall receive one (1) day's pay for each twenty-two (22) days of service after two (2) years of service, not to exceed ten (10) days. The work period will be fifteen days before school begins and fifteen (15) days after school ends. The first and last five (5) days will be considered mandatory vacation time.
3)	Secondary clerks, central office clerks, and special projects employees who have been in the continuous employ of the Board for twelve (12) months prior to the first of September of each year shall receive two (2) weeks' vacation with pay.
4)	Employees who have been in the continuous employ of the Board for five (5) years prior to the first of September of each year shall receive three (3) weeks' vacation with pay.
5)	Employees who have been in the continuous employ of the Board for ten (10) years prior to September of each year shall receive four (4) weeks' vacation with pay.
6)	At no time during vacation is it desirable for a clerk to be left in the building alone.
7)	Vacations for middle school and senior high school employees may be taken after two (2) weeks following the close of school and before two (2) weeks prior to the opening of school, except for central office clerical employees, who can take their vacation at any time.
40
8)	Seniority within a department or building shall prevail on scheduling dates for vacations. Earned vacation time shall not be accumulative from one year to another.
Vacation time may be scheduled from the beginning of a fiscal year to the end of the same fiscal year, with the approval of the supervisor or department head.
9)	The change of the fiscal period from July to September shall not be used to deny any employee represented by this Agreement any benefits he/she would have received under the formal fiscal period from July to September.
F. Holiday and Non-Work Days:
Holidays and non-working days for non-certified employees are agreed to be as follows:
Labor Day Columbus Day Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Friday after Thanksgiving Day Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve New Year's Day
Martin Luther King's Birthday Lincoln's Birthday Casimir Pulaski Day Good Friday
Malcolm X's Birthday
Memorial Day
Independence Day
These holidays must coincide with the school calendar as submitted by the Illinois Office of Education as stipulated in the Illinois School Code.
G Suspension or Discharge:
Governed by the Grievance Procedure. (See Article XVIII Sections 1-4 of this Agreement).
H.	Transferring:
1)	All office employees of District 189 shall have an equal opportunity to transfer from one position to another whenever a vacancy occurs. All said employees being transferred must qualify for the position (except as Article XXI Section B) and will be placed on the same step of said position salary schedule. All bids must be individually submitted in writing by mail.
41
2)	No clerk shall be involuntarily transferred from his/her present position providing he/she is more senior employee and has sufficient qualifications to perform the tasks required. This article shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
3)	Clerical employees of District 189 may voluntarily transfer from the permanent position based on the following conditions:
a.	Said transfer request to be by mail with a copy to Local 1220.
b.	Such transfer can only be made for the following reasons:
1)	On the basis of similar classification.
2)	That said voluntary transfer shall be made only after extensive review of the merits for such transfer. Such review to be made by Union representatives and administrative Personnel.
I.	Assignments:
1)	The duties of clerical employees in any school or building therein shall be fixed by the principal of the school, consistent with the rules and regulation of the Board of Education and by mutual agreement of Local 1220.
2)	No office employee may have a job classification and/or duties changed by recommendations of the department head without bid sheet going out on his/her classification.
3)	There shall be a job description for each tour of duty and a study for each job description for each job classification.
NOTE: All steps and sections shall be deleted in favor of the grievance procedure already agreed to in Article XVIII of this Agreement.
4)	District Clerks shall not be required to perform tasks other than official school district work.
5)	Clerks shall not be required to perform additional duties of other employees because of illness or absence until such duties are approved by the superintendent. Upon his/her approval said employee shall receive the salary differential provided it is greater.
42
ARTICLE XXI
STATE APPROVED TEACHER-AIDES
1.	It is recognized that the utilization of teacher-aides can be a valuable adjunct to the instructional effort.
2.	Seniority for teacher-aides begins on the effective date of regular full-time employment in District 189.
3.	Concerning lay-offs or transfers, seniority shall be given preference. If for any reason it becomes necessary for the Board to eliminate and/or reduce programs or staff, the procedures used in determining which cuts are to be made will be determined by the Board and said course of action will be made known to the Union.
4.	No teacher-aide shall be involuntarily transferred from his/her present position providing he/she is a more senior employee and has sufficient qualification to perform the tasks required.
RULES:
1.	All contractual provisions herein shall apply equally to all schools and offices.
2.	Schools with more than 12 rooms shall have at least one full-time clerical employee except when economic conditions warrant changes which must be mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Administration.
ARTICLE XXII	- FAIR SHARE
All employees covered by this Agreement who are not members of the Union, commencing on the effective date of this Agreement, or upon their initial employment, and continuing during the term of this Agreement, and so long as they remain non-members of the UNION, shall pay to the UNION each month their fair share of the costs of the services rendered by the UNION that are chargeable to non-members under state and federal law.
The fair share amount certified by the Union to the Board shall not exceed the required monthly union membership dues. All employees of the bargaining units have the right to join any organization, association, or union but membership in such organization shall not be required as a condition of employment.
The Board shall deduct from the pay of each employee, upon authorization either the full dues amount or the certified proportionate fair share fee and remit to the Union within ten (10) working days unless required to do otherwise by the IELRB.
43
The Union shall indemnify and hold harmless the Board, its members, officers, agents, and employees from and against any and all claims, demands, actions, complaints, suits, or other form of liability that shall arise out of, or by reason of action taken by the Board for the purpose of complying with the above provisions of this article, or in reliance on any list, notice, certification, affidavit, or assignment furnished by the Union under any such provisions. The Union shall not be responsible for the attorney's fees of any attorney for the employer other than an attorney employed and supervised or directed by the Union.
Upon adoption of any Union internal appeal procedure, the Union shall supply the Board with a copy. In addition, the Union shall advise the Board of the subsequent changes therein.
The Union and the Board shall comply with the rules of the Labor Board concerning notice, objections, and related matters contained in its fair share rules.
If, during the term of this agreement, the Labor Board or a court of competent jurisdiction rules any part of this Article void or not enforceable, the Union and the Board agree to convene negotiations on this matter immediately for the sole purpose of bringing this Article into compliance with the standards or rulings of said Labor Board or court.
ARTICLE XXIII	- PERSONNEL FILES
1.	All building personnel files kept on employees shall be open files which can be examined at the employee's request in the view of the principal of the school. No other records may be kept pertinent to personnel unless notification of such records is given the teacher and these records shall also be open, readily accessible and immediately available for teacher examination upon request.
2.	Copies of all information requested by the teacher from his personnel file shall be given to the requesting teacher within forty-eight (48) hours after the request.
3.	Copies of all information requested by the teacher from his personnel file shall be given to the requesting teacher within forty-eight (48) hours after the request. At a cost of ten (10) cents per copy after the first five (5) copies of a document.
4.	All teachers shall have the privilege to respond to material in the personnel file and have response included in the file.
5.	All personnel files kept on teachers in the Central Office shall be open files which can be examined at the teacher's request in the view of the Administrator in charge. No other
44
records may be kept pertaining to personnel unless these records shall also be open, readily accessible and immediately available for teacher examination upon request.
6.	Copies of all information requested by the teacher from his personnel file in the Central Office except confidential files from teacher placement service and other employment agencies, shall be given the requesting teacher within forty-eight (48) hours after the request and all copies of information hereafter which is placed in a teacher's personnel file in the Central Office shall be shown or given to the teacher within forty-eight (48) hours after the request.
7.	No anonymous letter or materials shall be placed in the building or the Central Office.
8.	No material other than that in the office files shall be used in any hearing related to dismissal, disciplinary action, or term of a teacher.
9.	No matters pertaining to the grievance procedures shall be included in any personnel file of any teacher unless requested by the teacher. All matters pertaining to a grievance shall be treated as confidential material by the Administration and the Board and shall not be consulted in decisions regarding re-employment, promotion, assignment, or transfer.
ARTICLE XXIV - SALARY SCHEDULES
A.	Certified Salary Schedules
1.	The 2003-2004 salary schedule shall reflect a three percent (3%) increase above the 2002-2003 salary schedule plus all vertical and horizontal increments.
2.	Payment for extra classes shall be as follows:
a.	Middle School Teachers, fifteen ($15.00) dollars per hour.
b.	Senior High School Teachers, fifteen ($15.00) dollars per hour.
B.	Non-Certified Salary Schedules
1.	The 2003-2004 salary schedule shall reflect a three percent (3%) increase above the 2002-2003 salary schedule plus all vertical increments.
45
2.	All salaries are retroactive to July 1 of each year of the Agreement.
3.	Incremental longevity salary steps for non-certified
employees are as follows:
a.	An additional four hundred dollars ($400.00) for each employee at the beginning of the 17th year of service in District 189.
b.	An additional four hundred dollars ($400.00) at the beginning of the 22nd year of service in District 189.
c.	An additional four hundred dollars ($400.00) at the beginning of the 27th year of service in District 189.
4 6
TEACHERS' SALARY SCHEDULES ^'k'k'k’'k'k'k'k’^'k'k'k'k'k'k-k'k'k'k'k'k'k^'k'k'k-
VOCATIONAL 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$32,251.00	$2,687.58	$1,343.79
2	$35,976.00	$2,998.00	$1,499.00
3	$45,198.00	$3,766.50	$1,883.25
4	$47,282.00	$3,940.17	$1,970.08
5	$47,959.00	$3,996.58	$1,998.29
6	$48,506.00	$4,042.17	$2,021.08
7	$49,828.00	$4,152.33	$2,076.17
8	$50,394.00	$4,199.50	$2,099.75
9	$51,424.00	$4,285.33	$2,142.67
VOCATIONAL (Employees Hired After July 1, 1999) 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$32,251.00	$2,687.58	$1,343.79
2	$34,647.00	$2,887.25	$1,443.63
3	$37,044.00	$3,087.00	$1,543.50
4	$39,441.00	$3,286.75	$1,643.38
5	$41,838.00	$3,486.50	$1,743.25
6	$44,233.00	$3,686.08	$1,843.04
7	$46,629.00	$3,885.75	$1,942.88
8	$49,027.00	$4,085.58	$2,042.79
9	$51,424.00	$4,285.33	$2,142.67
47
BACHELOR'S 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$31,954.00	$2,662.83	$1,331.42
2	$35,278.00	$2,939.83	$1,469.92
3	$44,731.00	$3,727.58	$1,863.79
4	$47,282.00	$3,940.17	$1,970.08
5	$47,959.00	$3,996.58	$1,998.29
6	$48,665.00	$4,055.42	$2,027.71
7	$49,130.00	$4,094.17	$2,047.08
8	$52,492.00	$4,374.33	$2,187.17
9	$53,053.00	$4,421.08	$2,210.54
10	$53,663.00	$4,471.92	$2,235.96
11	$54,273.00	$4,522.75	$2,261.38
BACHELOR’S (Employees Hired After July 1, 1999) 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$31,954.00	$2,662.83	$1,331.42
2	$34,186.00	$2,848.83	$1,424.42
3	$36,418.00	$3,034.83	$1,517.42
4	$38,650.00	$3,220.83	$1,610.42
5	$40,882.00	$3,406.83	$1,703.42
6	$43,114.00	$3,592.83	$1,796.42
7	$45,345.00	$3,778.75	$1,889.38
8	$47,578.00	$3,964.83	$1,982.42
9	$49,810.00	$4,150.83	$2,075.42
10	$52,041.00	$4,336.75	$2,168.38
11	$54,273.00	$4,522.75	$2,261.38
48
BACHELOR'S +16 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$32,723.00	$2,726.92	$1,363.46
2	$35,962.00	$2,996.83	$1,498.42
3	$45,198.00	$3,766.50	$1,883.25
4	$47,750.00	$3,979.17	$1,989.58
5	$48,425.00	$4,035.42	$2,017.71
6	$49,130.00	$4,094.17	$2,047.08
7	$49,828.00	$4,152.33	$2,076.17
8	$52,957.00	$4,413.08	$2,206.54
9	$53,518.00	$4,459.83	$2,229.92
10	$54,129.00	$4,510.75	$2,255.38
11	$54,970.00	$4,580.83	$2,290.42
BACHELOR'S +16 (Employees Hired After July 1, 1999) 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$32,723.00	$2,726.92	$1,363.46
2	$34,948.00	$2,912.33	$1,456.17
3	$37,173.00	$3,097.75	$1,548.88
4	$39,398.00	$3,283.17	$1,641.58
5	$41,622.00	$3,468.50	$1,734.25
6	$43,847.00	$3,653.92	$1,826.96
7	$46,072.00	$3,839.33	$1,919.67
8	$48,297.00	$4,024.75	$2,012.38
9	$50,520.00	$4,210.00	$2,105.00
10	$52,745.00	$4,395.42	$2,197.71
11	$54,970.00	$4,580.83	$2,290.42
49
MASTERS
2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$34,190.00	$2,849.17	$1,424.58
2	$37,376.00	$3,114.67	$1,557.33
3	$46,596.00	$3,883.00	$1,941.50
4	$48,916.00	$4,076.33	$2,038.17
5	$49,821.00	$4,151.75	$2,075.88
6	$50,242.00	$4,186.83	$2,093.42
7	$51,229.00	$4,269.08	$2,134.54
8	$54,123.00	$4,510.25	$2,255.13
9	$54,919.00	$4,576.58	$2,288.29
10	$55,529.00	$4,627.42	$2,313.71
11	$56,137.00	$4,678.08	$2,339.04
MASTERS (Employees Hired After July 1, 1999 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$34,190.00	$2,849.17	$1,424.58
2	$36,385.00	$3,032.08	$1,516.04
3	$38,580.00	$3,215.00	$1,607.50
4	$40,775.00	$3,397.92	$1,698.96
5	$42,970.00	$3,580.83	$1,790.42
6	$45,164.00	$3,763.67	$1,881.83
7	$47,357.00	$3,946.42	$1,973.21
8	$49,552.00	$4,129.33	$2,064.67
9	$51,747.00	$4,312.25	$2,156.13
10	$53,942.00	$4,495.17	$2,247.58
11	$56,137.00	$4,678.08	$2,339.04
50
MASTERS +16
2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$34,887.00	$2,907.25	$1,453.63
2	$37,840.00	$3,153.33	$1,576.67
3	$47,066.00	$3,922.17	$1,961.08
4	$49,614.00	$4,134.50	$2,067.25
5	$50,294.00	$4,191.17	$2,095.58
6	$51,229.00	$4,269.08	$2,134.54
7	$51,696.00	$4,308.00	$2,154.00
8	$54,823.00	$4,568.58	$2,284.29
9	$55,385.00	$4,615.42	$2,307.71
10	$55,994.00	$4,666.17	$2,333.08
11	$56,837.00	$4,736.42	$2,368.21
MASTERS +16 (Employees Hired After July 1, 1999) 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL
MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$34,887.00	$2,907.25	$1,453.63
2	$37,082.00	$3,090.17	$1,545.08
3	$39,277.00	$3,273.08	$1,636.54
4	$41,472.00	$3,456.00	$1,728.00
5	$43,667.00	$3,638.92	$1,819.46
6	$45,862.00	$3,821.83	$1,910.92
7	$48,057.00	$4,004.75	$2,002.38
8	$50,252.00	$4,187.67	$2,093.83
9	$52,447.00	$4,370.58	$2,185.29
10	$54,642.00	$4,553.50	$2,276.75
11	$56,837.00	$4,736.42	$2,368.21
51
MASTERS +30
2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$36,056.00	$3,004.67	$1,502.33
2	$39,007.00	$3,250.58	$1,625.29
3	$48,227.00	$4,018.92	$2,009.46
4	$51,014.00	$4,251.17	$2,125.58
5	$51,690.00	$4,307.50	$2,153.75
6	$52,393.00	$4,366.08	$2,183.04
7	$52,862.00	$4,405.17	$2,202.58
8	$56,224.00	$4,685.33	$2,342.67
9	$56,785.00	$4,732.08	$2,366.04
10	$57,395.00	$4,782.92	$2,391.46
11	$58,002.00	$4,833.50	$2,416.75
MASTERS +30 (Employees Hired After July 1, 1999) 2003-2004
	STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	Bi-MONTHLY
	1	$36,056.00	$3,004.67	$1,502.33
	2	$38,251.00	$3,187.58	$1,593.79
	3	$40,446.00	$3,370.50	$1,685.25
	4	$42,640.00	$3,553.33	$1,776.67
	5	$44,835.00	$3,736.25	$1,868.13
	6	$47,030.00	$3,919.17	$1,959.58
	7	$49,225.00	$4,102.08	$2,051.04
	8	$51,419.00	$4,284.92	$2,142.46
	9	$53,613.00	$4,467.75	$2,233.88
	10	$55,807.00	$4,650.58	$2,325.29
	11	$58,002.00	$4,833.50	$2,416.75
NOTE:	Assessment	Specialists	are paid on	the appropriate
teachers' salary schedule. Coordinators of Work Base Learning, Coordinators of Special Populations, and Coordinators of WECEP are paid on the appropriate teachers' salary schedule plus an additional $1,200.00.
52
HIGH SCHOOL REGISTRARS 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$65,687.00	$5,473.92	$2,736.96
ALL ABOVE SALARIES ARE BASE AND DO NOT INCLUDE LONGEVITY.
DOCTORATE DEGREES RECEIVE $1,000.00 PER YEAR.
CERTIFIED LONGEVITY
All Certified Employees covered by this salary schedule will receive Longevity increase of $600.00 per year at the beginning of the 16th year of service in School District 189, and an additional $600.00 at the beginning of the 21st year of service in School District 189, and an additional $600.00 at the beginning of their 26th year of service in East St. Louis School District 189.
BOARD PAID CONTRIBUTION TO THE TEACHERS' RETIREMENT SYSTEM
1.	That the Board shall pay from the above monies all of each teacher's total contribution to the Illinois Teachers Retirement System, on behalf of, and in the name of each teacher and all employees paid according to the teacher's contract, but not in excess of said monies.
2.	That all amounts, except the survivor benefit portion, shall be tax sheltered contributions and shall not be reported as wages for Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
3.	That any of the above monies that are not used to pay the contribution to the Illinois Teachers Retirement System shall become a part of the employee's salary income.
4.	Should any portion of this section be declared invalid or illegal by any federal agency or a court of competent jurisdiction, then this clause or that portion thereof shall be deleted from this Agreement to the extent that it violates the law.
5.	Should any such agency or court declare this portion illegal, the tax obligation on the retirement portion paid by the Board of Education shall remain that of the individual but the salary increases in this Agreement shall remain unchanged.
53
NON-CERTIFIED SALARY SCHEDULES 'k'k'k-k'fc'k'k-k'k-fc'fc'k,'k-k'k'k’'k-k'k-k-k'k'k'k-k'k-k'k'k~k
PARENT COORDINATOR 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$41,825.00	$3,485.42	$1,742.71
ATTENDANCE OFFICERS 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$27,828.00	$2,319.00	$1,159.50
2	$28,060.00	$2,338.33	$1,169.17
3	$28,291.00	$2,357.58	$1,178.79
4	$28,526.00	$2,377.17	$1,188.58
5	$28,757.00	$2,396.42	$1,198.21
6	$28,989.00	$2,415.75	$1,207.88
7	$29,457.00	$2,454.75	$1,227.38
8	$29,692.00	$2,474.33	$1,237.17
9	$29,924.00	$2,493.67	$1,246.83
10	$30,154.00	$2,512.83	$1,256.42
11	$30,486.00	$2,540.50	$1,270.25
200 DAY CLERK 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$24,903.00	$2,075.25	$1,037.63
2	$25,294.00	$2,107.83	$1,053.92
3	$25,684.00	$2,140.33	$1,070.17
4	$26,084.00	$2,173.67	$1,086.83
5	$26,468.00	$2,205.67	$1,102.83
6	$26,857.00	$2,238.08	$1,119.04
7	$27,249.00	$2,270.75	$1,135.38
8	$27,615.00	$2,301.25	$1,150.63
9	$28,030.00	$2,335.83	$1,167.92
10	$28,418.00	$2,368.17	$1,184.08
11	$28,817.00	$2,401.42	$1,200.71
12	$29,198.00	$2,433.17	$1,216.58
13	$29,588.00	$2,465.67	$1,232.83
14	$29,978.00	$2,498.17	$1,249.08
15	$30,369.00	$2,530.75	$1,265.38
54
210 DAY CLERK 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$25,808.00	$2,150.67	$1,075.33
2	$26,216.00	$2,184.67	$1,092.33
3	$26,621.00	$2,218.42	$1,109.21
4	$27,038.00	$2,253.17	$1,126.58
5	$27,440.00	$2,286.67	$1,143.33
6	$27,846.00	$2,320.50	$1,160.25
7	$28,258.00	$2,354.83	$1,177.42
8	$28,640.00	$2,386.67	$1,193.33
9	$29,072.00	$2,422.67	$1,211.33
10	$29,478.00	$2,456.50	$1,228.25
11	$29,899.00	$2,491.58	$1,245.79
12	$30,293.00	$2,524.42	$1,262.21
13	$30,702.00	$2,558.50	$1,279.25
14	$31,110.00	$2,592.50	$1,296.25
15	$31,517.00	$2,626.42	$1,313.21
215 DAY CLERK 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$26,259.00	$2,188.25	$1,094.13
2	$26,677.00	$2,223.08	$1,111.54
3	$27,093.00	$2,257.75	$1,128.88
4	$27,515.00	$2,292.92	$1,146.46
5	$27,926.00	$2,327.17	$1,163.58
6	$28,341.00	$2,361.75	$1,180.88
7	$28,762.00	$2,396.83	$1,198.42
8	$29,153.00	$2,429.42	$1,214.71
9	$29,596.00	$2,466.33	$1,233.17
10	$30,007.00	$2,500.58	$1,250.29
11	$30,439.00	$2,536.58	$1,268.29
12	$30,841.00	$2,570.08	$1,285.04
13	$31,259.00	$2,604.92	$1,302.46
14	$31,675.00	$2,639.58	$1,319.79
15	$32,091.00	$2,674.25	$1,337.13
55
12 MONTH CLERK AND ACCOUNTING SPECIALIST
2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$27,721.00	$2,310.08	$1,155.04
2	$28,147.00	$2,345.58	$1,172.79
3	$28,575.00	$2,381.25	$1,190.63
4	$28,942.00	$2,411.83	$1,205.92
5	$29,444.00	$2,453.67	$1,226.83
6	$29,851.00	$2,487.58	$1,243.79
7	$30,279.00	$2,523.25	$1,261.63
8	$30,680.00	$2,556.67	$1,278.33
9	$31,128.00	$2,594.00	$1,297.00
10	$31,555.00	$2,629.58	$1,314.79
11	$31,992.00	$2,666.00	$1,333.00
12	$32,405.00	$2,700.42	$1,350.21
13	$32,830.00	$2,735.83	$1,367.92
14	$33,275.00	$2,772.92	$1,386.46
15	$33,680.00	$2,806.67	$1,403.33
TEACHER'S	AIDES, HEALTH TECHNICIANS, IN-HOUSE		
SUSPENSION MONITORS AND INTERPRETERS 2003-2004			
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$24,174.00	$2,014.50	$1,007.25
2	$24,408.00	$2,034.00	$1,017.00
3	$24,935.00	$2,077.92	$1,038.96
4	$25,169.00	$2,097.42	$1,048.71
5	$25,638.00	$2,136.50	$1,068.25
6	$26,357.00	$2,196.42	$1,098.21
7	$27,075.00	$2,256.25	$1,128.13
8	$27,792.00	$2,316.00	$1,158.00
9	$28,512.00	$2,376.00	$1,188.00
10	$29,231.00	$2,435.92	$1,217.96
11	$29,949.00	$2,495.75	$1,247.88
SENIOR ACCOUNTING TECHNICIAN 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$34,335.00	$2,861.25	$1,430.63
2	$36,228.00	$3,019.00	$1,509.50
3	$37,144.00	$3,095.33	$1,547.67
4	$38,064.00	$3,172.00	$1,586.00
56
200 DAY STENO 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$25,757.00	$2,146.42	$1,073.21
2	$26,149.00	$2,179.08	$1,089.54
3	$26,536.00	$2,211.33	$1,105.67
4	$26,989.00	$2,249.08	$1,124.54
5	$27,306.00	$2,275.50	$1,137.75
6	$27,440.00	$2,286.67	$1,143.33
7	$28,106.00	$2,342.17	$1,171.08
8	$28,490.00	$2,374.17	$1,187.08
9	$28,884.00	$2,407.00	$1,203.50
10	$29,274.00	$2,439.50	$1,219.75
11	$29,666.00	$2,472.17	$1,236.08
12	$30,058.00	$2,504.83	$1,252.42
13	$30,446.00	$2,537.17	$1,268.58
14	$31,242.00	$2,603.50	$1,301.75
15	$31,620.00	$2,635.00	$1,317.50
210 DAY STENOGRAPHER 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$26,695.00	$2,224.58	$1,112.29
2	$27,102.00	$2,258.50	$1,129.25
3	$27,504.00	$2,292.00	$1,146.00
4	$27,977.00	$2,331.42	$1,165.71
5	$28,313.00	$2,359.42	$1,179.71
6	$28,732.00	$2,394.33	$1,197.17
7	$29,146.00	$2,428.83	$1,214.42
8	$29,552.00	$2,462.67	$1,231.33
9	$29,958.00	$2,496.50	$1,248.25
10	$30,365.00	$2,530.42	$1,265.21
11	$30,777.00	$2,564.75	$1,282.38
12	$31,183.00	$2,598.58	$1,299.29
13	$31,593.00	$2,632.75	$1,316.38
14	$31,987.00	$2,665.58	$1,332.79
15	$32,422.00	$2,701.83	$1,350.92
57
215 DAY STENOGRAPHER 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$27,161.00	$2,263.42	$1,131.71
2	$27,579.00	$2,298.25	$1,149.13
3	$27,989.00	$2,332.42	$1,166.21
4	$28,471.00	$2,372.58	$1,186.29
5	$28,812.00	$2,401.00	$1,200.50
6	$29,241.00	$2,436.75	$1,218.38
7	$29,666.00	$2,472.17	$1,236.08
8	$30,082.00	$2,506.83	$1,253.42
9	$30,496.00	$2,541.33	$1,270.67
10	$30,911.00	$2,575.92	$1,287.96
11	$31,335.00	$2,611.25	$1,305.63
12	$31,749.00	$2,645.75	$1,322.88
13	$32,278.00	$2,689.83	$1,344.92
14	$32,568.00	$2,714.00	$1,357.00
15	$33,016.00	$2,751.33	$1,375.67
12 MONTH STENOGRAPHER
2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL
MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$28,671.00	$2,389.25	$1,194.63
2	$29,095.00	$2,424.58	$1,212.29
3	$29,524.00	$2,460.33	$1,230.17
4	$29,949.00	$2,495.75	$1,247.88
5	$30,378.00	$2,531.50	$1,265.75
6	$30,802.00	$2,566.83	$1,283.42
7	$31,229.00	$2,602.42	$1,301.21
8	$31,652.00	$2,637.67	$1,318.83
9	$32,078.00	$2,673.17	$1,336.58
10	$32,506.00	$2,708.83	$1,354.42
11	$32,932.00	$2,744.33	$1,372.17
12	$33,360.00	$2,780.00	$1,390.00
13	$33,782.00	$2,815.17	$1,407.58
14	$34,218.00	$2,851.50	$1,425.75
15	$34,650.00	$2,887.50	$1,443.75
58
200 DAY BOOKEEPERS, MIDDLE SCHOOL SECRETARIES AND SECRETARIES 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$27,133.00	$2,261.08	$1,130.54
2	$27,535.00	$2,294.58	$1,147.29
3	$27,860.00	$2,321.67	$1,160.83
4	$28,306.00	$2,358.83	$1,179.42
5	$28,631.00	$2,385.92	$1,192.96
6	$29,039.00	$2,419.92	$1,209.96
7	$29,428.00	$2,452.33	$1,226.17
8	$29,819.00	$2,484.92	$1,242.46
9	$30,209.00	$2,517.42	$1,258.71
10	$30,600.00	$2,550.00	$1,275.00
11	$30,996.00	$2,583.00	$1,291.50
12	$31,384.00	$2,615.33	$1,307.67
13	$31,776.00	$2,648.00	$1,324.00
14	$32,147.00	$2,678.92	$1,339.46
15	$32,558.00	$2,713.17	$1,356.58
210 DAY BOOKEEPERS, MIDDLE SCHOOL SECRETARIES AND SECRETARIES 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL
MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$28,120.00	$2,343.33	$1,171.67
2	$28,541.00	$2,378.42	$1,189.21
3	$28,879.00	$2,406.58	$1,203.29
4	$29,356.00	$2,446.33	$1,223.17
5	$29,682.00	$2,473.50	$1,236.75
6	$30,110.00	$2,509.17	$1,254.58
7	$30,519.00	$2,543.25	$1,271.63
8	$30,927.00	$2,577.25	$1,288.63
9	$31,337.00	$2,611.42	$1,305.71
10	$31,743.00	$2,645.25	$1,322.63
11	$32,156.00	$2,679.67	$1,339.83
12	$32,560.00	$2,713.33	$1,356.67
13	$32,972.00	$2,747.67	$1,373.83
14	$33,362.00	$2,780.17	$1,390.08
15	$33,789.00	$2,815.75	$1,407.88
59
215 DAY BOOKEEPERS, MIDDLE SCHOOL SECRETARIES AND SECRETARIES 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL MONTHLY Bi-MONTHLY
1	$28,610.00	$2,384.17	$1,192.08
2	$29,041.00	$2,420.08	$1,210.04
3	$29,388.00	$2,449.00	$1,224.50
4	$29,874.00	$2,489.50	$1,244.75
5	$30,208.00	$2,517.33	$1,258.67
6	$30,645.00	$2,553.75	$1,276.88
7	$31,066.00	$2,588.83	$1,294.42
8	$31,483.00	$2,623.58	$1,311.79
9	$31,898.00	$2,658.17	$1,329.08
10	$32,311.00	$2,692.58	$1,346.29
11	$32,736.00	$2,728.00	$1,364.00
12	$33,148.00	$2,762.33	$1,381.17
13	$33,570.00	$2,797.50	$1,398.75
14	$33,965.00	$2,830.42	$1,415.21
15	$34,404.00	$2,867.00	$1,433.50
12 MONTH BOOKEEPERS, MIDDLE SCHOOL SECRETARIES, SECRETARIES AND ACCOUNTING TECHNICIANS 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL
MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$30,203.00	$2,516.92	$1,258.46
2	$30,641.00	$2,553.42	$1,276.71
3	$30,998.00	$2,583.17	$1,291.58
4	$31,423.00	$2,618.58	$1,309.29
5	$31,851.00	$2,654.25	$1,327.13
6	$32,277.00	$2,689.75	$1,344.88
7	$32,701.00	$2,725.08	$1,362.54
8	$33,126.00	$2,760.50	$1,380.25
9	$33,553.00	$2,796.08	$1,398.04
10	$33,980.00	$2,831.67	$1,415.83
11	$34,405.00	$2,867.08	$1,433.54
12	$34,830.00	$2,902.50	$1,451.25
13	$35,257.00	$2,938.08	$1,469.04
14	$35,682.00	$2,973.50	$1,486.75
15	$36,111.00	$3,009.25	$1,504.63
60
COORDINATOR OF ATTENDANCE 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$32,950.00	$2,745.83	$1,372.92
2	$34,323.00	$2,860.25	$1,430.13
3	$35,754.00	$2,979.50	$1,489.75
4	$37,243.00	$3,103.58	$1,551.79
5	$38,795.00	$3,232.92	$1,616.46
6	$40,413.00	$3,367.75	$1,683.88
7	$42,030.00	$3,502.50	$1,751.25
8	$43,709.00	$3,642.42	$1,821.21
9	$45,458.00	$3,788.17	$1,894.08
10	$47,276.00	$3,939.67	$1,969.83
11	$49,168.00	$4,097.33	$2,048.67
DRUG	ABUSE PREVENTION COORDINATOR		
	2003	-2004	
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$38,611.00	$3,217.58	$1,608.79
2	$40,218.00	$3,351.50	$1,675.75
3	$41,894.00	$3,491.17	$1,745.58
4	$43,640.00	$3,636.67	$1,818.33
5	$45,458.00	$3,788.17	$1,894.08
6	$47,353.00	$3,946.08	$1,973.04
7	$49,246.00	$4,103.83	$2,051.92
8	$51,215.00	$4,267.92	$2,133.96
9	$53,264.00	$4,438.67	$2,219.33
10	$55,395.00	$4,616.25	$2,308.13
11	$57,613.00	$4,801.08	$2,400.54
	CHILD CARE WORKER		
	2003	-2004	
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$12,076.00	$1,006.33	$503.17
2	$12,577.00	$1,048.08	$524.04
3	$13,102.00	$1,091.83	$545.92
4	$13,625.00	$1,135.42	$567.71
5	$14,170.00	$1,180.83	$590.42
61
CHILD CARE FACILITATOR 2003-2004
STEP	ANNUAL	MONTHLY	BI-MONTHLY
1	$14,496.00	$1,208.00	$604.00
2	$15,100.00	$1,258.33	$629.17
3	$15,728.00	$1,310.67	$655.33
4	$16,357.00	$1,363.08	$681.54
5	$17,013.00	$1,417.75	$708.88
COMPUTER TECHNICIANS 2003-2004
STEP ANNUAL MONTHLY BI-MONTHLY
1	$33,761.00	$2,813.42	$1,406.71
62
ATHLETICS 2003-2004
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR: $6,845.00
SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL COACHES
Athletic Grouping
Group A	Group B	Group C
		
Head Football	Head Wrestling	Head Girls Tennis
Assistant Football	Asst. Wrestling	Asst. Girls Tennis
Head Boys Basketball	Head Girls Softball	Head Boys Tennis
Asst. Boys Basketball	Asst. Girls Softball	Asst. Boys Tenis
Head Girls Basketball	Head Boys Baseball	Head Golf
Asst. Girls Basketball	Asst. Boys Baseball	Asst. Golf
Head Boys Track	Head Boys Cross Cntry.	Soccer
Asst. Boys Track	Asst. Boys Cross Cntry.	Field Hockey
Head Girls Track	Head Girls Cross Cntry.	
Assistant Girls Track	Asst. Girls Cross Cntry.	
Girls Volleyball		
Volleyball		
Salary
Group A			Group B			Group C		
Yrs as Coach	Head Coach	Asst. Coach	Yrs as Coach	Head Coach	Asst. Coach	Yrs as Coach	Head Coach	Asst. Coach
								
1-5	3721.62	2126.64	1-5	2482.32	1418.47	1-5	2200.00	1257.14
6-10	4519.11	2924.13	6-10	3014.25	1950.39	6-10	2441.32	1728.56
11-15	5316.60	3721.62	11-15	3546.17	2482.32	11-15	2842.15	2199.99
16-20	5848.26	4253.28	16-20	3900.79	2836.94	16-20	3126.37	2514.27
21&ovr	6645.75	4784.94	21&ovr	4432.72	3191.55	21&ovr	3552.69	2828.55
								
High school coaches shall be awarded experience based on the following placement procedure:
1.	Initial placement shall be based on the years of experience prior to the 1999-2000 school year.
2.	Experience shall be defined as the number of years of coaching as a head or assistant in the assigned sport at the high school level or above. Experience shall be given for coaching within and/or outside of School District #189.
63
2)
Non-certified members working 12 months by forgiving the lost day.
By: Board of Education
By: The Union,
East St. Louis Federation of Teachers
65