Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection
Title: Washoe County School District Board of Trustees and Nevada Classified School Employees and Public Workers Association, American Federation of Teachers (AFT), AFL-CIO, Chapter 2 (2003) (MOA)
K#: 840047
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
The complete metadata for each collective bargaining agreement can be found at -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.comell.edU/blscontracts/1/
For a glossary of the elements see - http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
For more information aboUt the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
AND THE
NEVADA CLASSIFIED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION
CHAPTER 2
2003-2006
SUPERVISORY AND NON-SUPERVISORY UNITS
JULY 1,2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1
ARTICLE 2
ARTICLE 3
ARTICLE 4
ARTICLE 5
ARTICLE 6
ARTICLE 7
Page Number
Agreement	1
Preamble	1
Deflnitions	1
Recognition And Description Of Bargaining Units	3
4.1	Recognition	3
4.1.4 Absence For Negotiations	3
4.2	Classified Employee Units	3
4.3	New/Deleted Classifications	4
Non-Discrimination	4
No Strike Agreement	4
Grievance And Complaint Procedure	5
7.1	Grievance Procedures	5
7.1.1	Definitions	5
7.1.2	Purposes	5
7.1.3	Time Limits	5
7.1.4	Level One - Supervisor	5
7.1.5	Level Two - Department Head	6
7.1.6	Level Three - Superintendent Of Schools	6
7.1.7	Level Four - Arbitration	6
7.1.8	Grievance Forms	7
7.2	Rights	Of Employees To Participation	8
7.3	Miscellaneous	8
7.4	Complaint Procedure	9
7.4.1	Purposes	9
7.4.2	Time Limits	9
7.4.3	Level One - Supervisor	9
7.4.4	Level Two - Department Head	9
7.4.5	Level Three - Superintendent Of Schools	10
7.4.6	Level Four-Board Of Trustees	10
7.4.7	Complaint Forms	10
ARTICLE 8 Discipline: Probationary/Post Probationary Employees
10
8.1	Probationary Employees	10	
8.2	Disciplinary Actions	10	
8.3	Progressive Discipline	11	
	8.3.3 Step I	11	
	8.3.4 Step II	12	
	8.3.5 Step III	12	
	8.3.6 Step IV	12	/
8.4	Appeals	13	
8.5	Absence Without Authorization	13	
ARTICLE 9 Sick Leave And Other Leaves		13	
9.1	Sick Leave	13	
	9.1.1 General Provisions	13	
	9.1.2 Accrual and Accumulation	14	
9.2	Leave For Surgery And Medical Appointments	15	
9.3	Bereavement Leave	15	
9.4	Family Illness	15	
9.5	Use Of Sick Leave To Supplement S.I.I.S Benefits	15		
9.6	Child-Rearing Leave	16	
9.7	Personal Leave	17	
9.8	Jury Duty	17	
9.9	Military Leave	17	
9.10	School Business Leave	17	
9.11	Association Leave	17	
9.12	Leave Of Absence Without Pay	18	
9.13	Leave Of Absence For Voting	19	
9.14	Sick Leave Bank	19	
9.15	Association Visits	21	
ARTICLE 10 Vacations And Holidays		21	
10.1	Vacation Leave: General Provisions	21	■g
10.2	Vacation Leave: Accrual And Accumulation	22	
10.2.3	Accrual Rates	22	
	10.2.4 Vacation Leave	23	
	10.2.5 Vacation Accrual	23	
10.3	Scheduled Holidays	23	
ARTICLE 11 Wages And Insurance	24
11.1	Wage Schedules	24
11.2	Salary Advancement	24
11.3	Longevity Bonus	25
11.4	Overtime And Compensatory Time	25
11.5	Holiday Pay	26
11.6	Call Back Pay	27
11.7	Call In Early Pay	27
11.8	Report To Work Pay	27
11.9	Temporary Assignment Pay	27
11.10	Mileage Allowance	27
11.11	Group Insurance	28
11.12	Retiree Subsidy	29
11.13	Tool Allowance	30
11.14	Early Separation Incentive Plan (ESIP)	30
11.15	Isolation Allowance	30
11.16	Highly Qualified Provision	31
ARTICLE 12	Transfers/Promotions	31
12.1	Transfer/Promotion Process	31
12.2	Americans With Disabilities Act Transfer	32
ARTICLE 13	Transportation Route Selection	32
13.1	Route Selection	32
13.2	Minimum Route Time	33
ARTICLE 14	Reduction In Force	33
14.1	Seniority Dates And Qualifications	33
ARTICLE 15	Dues Deduction	36
15.1	Authorizations - Procedures	36
15.2	Indemnity	36
ARTICLE 16	Safety	37
ARTICLE 17	Periods For Meals And Rest	37
ARTICLE 18	Use of Facilities	37
ARTICLE 19	Work Schedule Changes	38
ARTICLE 20	Administration Of Agreement	38
ARTICLE 21	Employee Protection	38
ARTICLE 22	General Savings Clause	39
ARTICLE 23	Term Of Agreement	39
23.1	Length Of Agreement	39
23.2	Negotiability	39
23.3	Wage Changes	39
23.4	Ratification	40
APPENDIX A	Supervisory Bargaining Unit
Non-Supervisoiy Bargaining Unit
APPENDIX B	Occupational Series
APPENDIX C	Classified Salary Schedules
APPENDIX D	Classified Grievance and Complaint Forms
APPENDIX E	Memorandum Of Understandings

ARTICLE 1
AGREEMENT
1.1	This agreement is entered into at Reno, Nevada, this first day of July 1,2003 between the Board of
Trustees of the Washoe County School District (hereinafter referred to as the Board) and the Nevada Classified School Employees Association, Chapter 2 (hereinafter referred to as the Association). (2003)
ARTICLE 2
PREAMBLE
2.1	WHEREAS, The parties recognize that the Board of Trustees is charged by law with the duty and
responsibility of operating a public school system; AND WHEREAS, wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment of classified school employees are matters of mutual concern to the Board of Trustees and the Association.
2.2	THEREFORE, it is the intent and purpose of this Agreement to assure sound and mutual beneficial
economic and employment relations between the parties hereto; to attempt to provide an orderly and peaceful means of conducting negotiations and resolving any misunderstandings or grievances; and to set forth here in article form the agreements between the parties covering wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 288.
ARTICLE 3
DEFINITIONS
3.1	DEFINITION OF TERMS
3.1.1	The term "NRS 288" as used in this Agreement shall refer to Chapter 288 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes, also known as the Local Government EmployeeManagement Relations Act.
3.1.2	The term "employee," as used in this Agreement, means a classified employee holding a position listed under the Full Schedule Classes and Separate Schedule Classes on the Classified Salary Schedule. Individuals holding positions listed ,.	under the Non-Scheduled Classes are not considered an “employee” as used in this
Agreement.
Employees are covered by this Agreement unless otherwise noted in the Agreement.
The change listed under 3.1.2 will go into effect July 1, 2001, and will not be retroactive.
1
3.1.2.1	A probationary employee is an employee who has not completed his/her initial nine (9) month probationary period and any extensions thereof; or an existing employee who has promoted or transferred to a position for which s/he has not previously completed his/her six (6) month probationary period and any extension thereof.
3.1.2.2	A post probationary employee is an employee who has completed his/her initial nine (9) month probationary period and any extensions thereof; or an existing employee who has promoted or transferred to	”
a position and who has successfully completed his/her six (6) month probationary period and any extensions thereof.
- <
3.1.2.3	A temporary employee is an employee who is hired on a temporary basis, for completion of a special project or task, an emergency, or for abnormal work loads. Temporary employees are not included in the bargaining unit.
3.1.2.4	If a temporary position exceeds six (6) months, the position will no longer be considered temporary and will be covered by the Agreement except as noted below. The employee’s probationary period will begin from the date the position is no longer temporary. If at any time the District determines the position is no longer needed, the employee may be terminated from the District and Article 7, 8, and 14 shall not apply.
3.1.2.5	If it is determined the position should be made regular, the position = will be advertised as per Article 12 Transfers/Promotions.
3.1.3	The term "School Trustees" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Trustees of the Washoe County School District.
3.1.4	The term "Association" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Nevada Classified Employees Association, Chapter 2.
3.1.5	The term "District" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Washoe County
School District.
3.1.6	The term "Superintendent" as used in this Agreement shall mean the
Superintendent of Schools of the Washoe County School District or his/her designated representative.	;
3.1.7	The term "School Trustee" and "Association" shall include authorized officers,
representatives, and agents.
3.1.8	The term "days" as used in this Agreement shall mean working days, not calendar
days.
3.1.9	The term "year” as used in this Agreement shall mean fiscal year (July 1 through
June 30), not calendar year (January 1 through December 31).
2
ARTICLE 4
RECOGNITION AND DESCRIPTION OF BARGAINING UNITS
4.1	RECOGNITION
4.1.1	In accordance with the provisions of Chapter 288 of the Nevada Revised Statutes,
the Nevada Classified School Employees Association has submitted to the Board of Trustees of the Washoe County School District, (1) a copy of its constitution and bylaws; (2) a roster of its officers and representatives; (3) a pledge in writing not to strike against the local government employer under any circumstances; and (4) a verified membership list showing that it represents a majority of the employees eligible in the described bargaining units.
4.1.2	Therefore pursuant to and for the purposes of Chapter 288 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, the Board of Trustees recognizes the Association as the exclusive bargaining agent to negotiate wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment for the classified employees bargaining units.
4.1.3	This article shall become effective July 1,2003, and shall continue and remain in full force and effect thereafter up to and including the thirty (30) days of June, 2006, unless recognition is withdrawn as provided for in NRS 288.160; and shall be automatically renewed and continued in effect from year to year thereafter unless notice is given by the District not less than ninety (90) days prior to the date of the expiration of this Agreement.
4.1.4	ABSENCE FOR NEGOTIATIONS
4.1.4.1	Negotiation conferences or meetings between the parties shall normally be held at reasonable times during the regular business day.
4.1.4.2	The Association's negotiating team shall be released from duties to attend negotiating meetings with the District. Such released time for the Association's team shall be charged to Association Leave. Such absences must be arranged with reasonable prior written notification.
4.2	CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEE UNITS
4.2.1	The Supervisory bargaining unit shall be composed of all employees in positions
listed in Appendix A, Page A1.
4.2.2	The Non-Supervisory bargaining unit shall be composed of all employees in
positions listed in Appendix A, pages A2 and A3.
4.2.3	Employees in the following confidential positions shall be excluded from the unit.
Confidential positions as defined by NRS 288.170, 6 ("As used in this section, 'confidential employee' means an employee who is involved in the decisions of management affecting collective bargaining") and include the following positions in the:
3
(a)	Personnel Division (all positions)
(b)	Superintendent's Office (excluding
the PBX Operator/Receptionist)
(c)	Payroll Department (all positions)
(d)	Risk Management (Risk Management Technician) (2003)
4.2.4
Temporary employees are not covered by this Agreement.
4.3
NEW/DELETED CLASSIFICATIONS
4.3.1	The District shall consult with the Association as to the appropriateness of inclusion
in one (1) of the bargaining units of any new classification(s) added to the classified salary schedule during the term of this Agreement in accordance with NRS 288.170.
4.3.2	When the District removes a position from the bargaining unit, the District will notify
the Association prior to the removal.
ARTICLE 5
NON-DISCRIMINATION
5.1	The p arties h ereto a gree n ot 10 d iscriminate a gainst a ny e mployee 0 n t he basis of Association
membership or non-membership and agree further that the provisions of this Article are applicable to all employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6
NO STRIKE AGREEMENT
6.1	The Association recognizes the public policy as expressed in NRS 288.230 in which the Nevada
Legislature declared:
6.1.1	That the services provided by the School District as an employer are of such nature
that they are not and cannot be duplicated from other sources and are essential to the health, safety and welfare of the people;
6.1.2	That the continuity of such services is likewise essential, and their disruption
incompatible with the responsibility to the people; and
6.1.3	It is the public policy of the State of Nevada that a strike against the School District
as a local government employer is illegal.
6.2	The Association agrees to act and conduct its affairs in accordance with this policy. The
Association, its officers and agents agree further that they shall not support any strike against the Washoe County School District nor shall they engage in or support any action to impair the rendering of such essential services by the District.
4
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE AND COMPLAINT PROCEDURE
7.1	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
7.1.1	Definitions
7.1.1.1	A "grievance" is a complaint by an employee, group of employees, or the Association based upon an alleged violation, misinterpretation, or inequitable application of a specific provision of this Agreement.
7.1.1.2	An "aggrieved person" is an employee, a group of employees, or the Association, asserting a grievance.
7.1.1.3	A "party in interest" is any person or persons who might be required to take action, or against whom action might be taken in order to resolve the problem.
7.1.1.4	The term "days" when used in this Article shall, except where otherwise indicated, mean working days rather than calendar days.
7.1.2	Purposes
7.1.2.1	The purpose of this procedure is to secure, at the lowest possible administrative level, equitable solutions to the problems which may from time to time arise.
7.1.2.2	Both parties agree that these proceedings shall be kept as confidential as may be appropriate at any level of the procedure.
7.1.3 Time Limits
7.1.3.1	Since it is important that grievances be processed as rapidly as possible, the number of days indicated at each level should be considered as a maximum, and every effort should be made to expedite the process.
7.1.3.2	If an employee, group of employees, or the Association does not file a grievance in writing as provided herein within fifteen (15) days after the employee, group of employees, or Association knew of or should have known of the act or condition on which the grievance is based, then the grievance shall be waived.
7.1.4	Level One - Supervisor
7.1.4.1	If an employee feels that he/she has a grievance, he/she shall first discuss the matter informally with his/her immediate supervisor. (2003)
5
7.1.4.2	If an aggrieved person is not satisfied with the disposition of his/her problem through informal procedures, he/she shall, within ten (10) days after notice to his/her administrative supervisor, submit his/her claim as a formal grievance in writing to the Association’s Grievance Representative and the Classified Human Resources Coordinator, who will forward a copy of the grievance to the administrative supervisor. (2003)
7.1.4.3	The administrative supervisor shall within fifteen (15) days render	’
his/her decision and the reasons therefore in writing on the prescribed form to the Association. (2003)
1.
7.1.5	Level Two - Department Head
7.1.5.1	If the aggrieved is not satisfied with the disposition of his/her
grievance at Level One, or if no decision has been rendered within fifteen (15) days after presentation of the grievance in writing to his/her supervisor, he/she shall file the written grievance with the Classified Human Resources Coordinator, who will forward a copy of the grievance to the appropriate Department Head.
7.1.5.2	The Department Head shall within ten (10) days render his/her
decision and the reasons therefore in writing on the grievance form to the Association.
7.1.6	Level Three - Superintendent of Schools	=
7.1.6.1	If the aggrieved is not satisfied with the disposition of his/her
grievance at Level Two, or if no decision has been rendered within ten (10) days after presentation of the grievance in writing to the Department Head, he/she shall file the written grievance with the Classified H uman R esources C oordinator. S uch f iling s hall occur within five (5) days after receipt of the decision at Level Two.
7.1.6.2	The Superintendent of Schools shall act for the administration at
Level Three of the grievance procedure. W ithin fifteen (15) days after receipt of the written appeal for a hearing, the Superintendent shall meet with the aggrieved person for the purpose of resolving the grievance. When requested by either party, a full transcript of this hearing shall be kept. The cost of such transcript shall be equally	-
shared by both parties. The Superintendent shall within fifteen (15) days of the hearing render his/her decision and the reasons therefore in writing to the Association.	u
7.1.6.3	Notification of Level Three grievance hearings shall be mailed to the grievant at least five (5) days prior to the hearing.
7.1.7	Level Four - Arbitration
7.1.7.1	If the aggrieved is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance
at Level Three, the Association may, within fifteen (15) days of the Superintendent's decision, notify the Classified Human Resources Coordinator in writing that it wishes to take the grievance to binding arbitration.
6
7.1.7.2	Within ten (10) days after written notice of submission to
arbitration, the Superintendent and the Association shall agree upon a mutually acceptable arbitrator who is experienced, impartial, disinterested, and of recognized competence. If the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator, a request for a list of arbitrators shall be made to the American Arbitration Association.
7.1.7.3	The arbitrator's recommendation shall be submitted in writing to the
aggrieved, the Superintendent, and the Association only, and shall set forth his/her findings of facts, reasons, and recommendations on the specific issue(s) submitted. The arbitrator's recommendations shall be binding and shall be consistent with the law and with the terms of this Agreement.
7.1.7.4	The costs of the services of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Association and the District. Each party agrees to bear its own costs, fees and expenses in the preparation, presentation and participation in the case before the arbitrator. If a district employee is called as a witness during normal working hours, the party calling such witness shall pay for any time lost from district employment by such witness unless he/she elects to use accrued vacation leave.
7.1.7.5	In the event the award would cost the district in excess of 1/4 (one-quarter) cent of the tax rate for any one specific grievance, or 1/2 (one-half) cent of the tax rate in the aggregate (more than one grievance) during the term of the Agreement, then the Board of Trustees shall have final authority.
At the next meeting of the School Trustees, the decision of the arbitrator and any other information shall be presented to the School Trustees for consideration and both parties shall have the opportunity to present their positions before the School Trustees take final action on the grievance.
7.1.7.6	In cases involving discharge, in the event an arbitrator cannot be mutually agreed upon, the parties agree to utilize and be bound by the rules for expedited arbitration of the American Arbitration Association, except and provided however each party reserves the right to reject the arbitrator designated by the American Arbitration Association, which upon the exercise of that right by either party, the parties agree to obtain a list from the American Arbitration Association of five (5) arbitrators participating in expedited arbitrations from which an arbitrator will be chosen by alternately striking names. The Association shall strike the first name.
7.1.8	Grievance Forms (See Appendix D)
The grievance forms contained in Appendix D are included for the sole purpose of making employees aware of the forms that must be used in filing a grievance. Grievance forms may be modified by the District at any time, with or without notice. Appendix D is not in any way subject to the grievance procedure.
7
7.2
RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES TO PARTICIPATION
7.2.1	No reprisals of any kind shall be taken by either party against any party in interest, any school representative or any other participation in the grievance procedure by reason of such participation.
7.2.2	Any party in interest may be represented at any level of the formal grievance procedure by a person of his/her choosing.
7.3	MISCELLANEOUS
7.3.1	If in the judgment of the Association, a grievance affects a group or class of	- employees, the Association shall submit such grievance in writing to the Superintendent directly and the processing of such grievance shall begin at Level Three.
7.3.2	Decisions rendered at all levels of the formal grievance procedure shall be in writing on or attached to the appropriate form, and shall set forth the decisions and reasons therefore.
7.3.3	All documents, communications and records dealing with the processing of grievances shall be filed separately from the personnel files of the participants.
7.3.4	Forms for filing and processing grievances and other necessary documents shall be jointly prepared by the parties and distributed by the Association. If the forms are not available at the time, a grievance may be presented in letter form.	__
7.3.5	A grievance may be withdrawn at any level by the aggrieved without prejudice.
7.3.6	The remedy available for any alleged breach of this Agreement or any alleged violation of rights hereunder granted, shall be pursuant to the foregoing grievance procedure, provided however, that nothing contained herein shall deprive any party of any legal right.
7.3.7	In the event there is a question as to whether a specific grievance is arbitrable, such a threshold issue shall be considered first in the arbitration hearing and no evidence shall be given as to the merits of the grievance. If the arbitrator finds the issue is not arbitrable, no further consideration of the grievance shall be allowed. If the arbitrator finds the issue arbitrable, he/she shall proceed to hear the grievance. If the arbitratoris unabletomakesucha determination a11hat time, then he/she may proceed to hear the grievance even though no decision will be rendered on the grievance if he/she subsequently determines the issue is non- arbitrable.
7.3.8	Any and all time limitations as set forth in this section may be extended by agreement of the parties.
7.3.9	A "continuing grievance" is a grievance based on an act or condition which actively reoccurs on a periodic basis. For example, the District underpays an employee by $10 on each paycheck. A grievance based upon this act by the School District would be a continuing grievance.
8

7.4
If a n e mployee o r g roup o f e mployees d oes not f ile a grievance or a continuing grievance in writing as provided herein within ten (10) days after the employee or group of employees knew of or should have known of the act or condition on which it is based, then the grievance or continuing grievance shall be considered as waived.
Arbitration awards that involve retroactivity shall not be made retroactive more than ten (10) days prior to the date of filing of the grievance or continuing grievance.
COMPLAINT PROCEDURE
7.4.1	Purposes
7.4.1.1	The parties agree that any dispute arising under the application and/or administration of such policies or regulations relating to subject matter not covered by the provisions of the Agreement shall be processed in accordance with the following. The Complainant at any step shall have the right to have a person of his/her own choosing present.
7.4.2	Time Limits
7.4.2.1 If an employee does not file a complaint in writing as provided herein within three (3) months after the employee knew of or should have known of the act or condition on which the complaint is based, then the complaint shall be waived. However, the District will adhere to the procedure with the exception of the Board of Trustees Level (see 7.4.6.2).
7.4.3	Level One - Supervisor
7.4.3.1	All requests and problems of classified employees should be taken up in the first instance with the supervisor/administrator. Every reasonable effort will be made to resolve any complaint by a classified employee through meeting with the appropriate supervisor/administrator.
7.4.4	Level Two - Department Head
7.4.4.1	In case a satisfactory solution is not reached, a classified employee shall notify the appropriate administrative supervisor and may file a formal complaint on the appropriate form. The complaint must be signed by the complainant(s) and distributed to the Association and Classified Human Resources Coordinator, who will forward copies of the complaint to the Supervisor and Department Head. The complaint shall state the nature of the complaint including the specific policy, regulation or other appropriate procedure, practice or subject which is the basis for the complaint.
7.4.4.2	The appropriate Department Head shall establish a meeting to occur within eight (8) days of receipt of the request. In the event a written proposed resolution to the complaint is presented, the complainant has five (5) days to respond or the complaint is settled at this level.
9
7.4.5	Level Three - Superintendent of Schools
7.4.5.1	If a satisfactory resolution is not reached at this level, the complainant may notify the Classified Human Resources Coordinator that he/she wishes to discuss the complaint with the Superintendent and a meeting shall be established within ten (10) days of receipt, in writing, of the notice.
7.4.6	Level Four - Board of Trustees
7.4.6.1	In the event the complaint is not resolved within ten (10) days after the meeting, the complainant may notify the Superintendent in writing that he/she wishes to take the complaint to the School Trustees.
7.4.6.2	The School Trustees shall then, at the next regular meeting, request the parties to appear at a hearing. All material and evidence shall then be presented to the School Trustees for their examination. The decision of the School Trustees shall be made by the next regular meeting after examination of the facts. The decision of the School Trustees shall be final.
7.4.7	Complaint Forms (See Appendix D)
The complaint forms contained in Appendix D are included for the sole purpose of making employees aware of the forms that must be used in filing a complaint. Complaint forms may be modified at any time by the District, with or without notice. ■Appendix D is not in any way subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 8
DISCIPLINE: PROBATIONARY/POST PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
Anytime a supervisor meets with an employee in a Step 1, Step 2, Step 3, or Step 4 meeting, the employee has the right to have an Association Representative present. (2003)
8.1	PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
8.1.1	The nine (9) month or six (6) month probationary period of an employee may be
extended by the Superintendent or his/her designee. When the District extends the probationary period of an employee, the employee will be notified of the reason.
8.2	DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
8.2.1	The District shall not suspend without pay, demote or discharge a post-probationary
employee as a disciplinary action without just cause.
10
8.3
PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE
The District and Association agree that progressive discipline is a constructive and advantageous method of dealing with problems involving employee performance and misconduct. Constructive in that it assists the District in rectifying unsatisfactory performance and misconduct of an employee by p roviding i nformation a s t o t he m anner w ith w hich t he p roblem c an a nd m ust b e c orrected. Furthermore, it serves to provide fair notice to the employee that failure to rectify unsatisfactory performance and misconduct will result in further disciplinary action.
Progressive discipline is advantageous in that it demonstrates the District's commitment in attempting to rectify an employee's unsatisfactory performance and misconduct. When such is accomplished, both the District and employee benefit.
8.3.1	For post-probationary employees, including six (6) month probationary employees,
the District agrees to adhere to the principles of progressive discipline in matters which require disciplinary action. Such actions may include verbal warnings, written warnings and reprimands, suspension with or without pay, and demotion and termination.
8.3.2	When an employee is performing unsatisfactorily and/or are engaging in misconduct, the supervisor shall meet with the employee to discuss the unsatisfactory performance/misconduct and performance/behavior expectations. When it is required, fact finding will be conducted before discipline is administered to an employee.
8.3.3	Step I (Written Warning)
A.	The supervisor shall meet with the employee to discuss the unsatisfactory performance and/or misconduct and the Written Warning. (2003)
B.	An Association representative may be present.
C.	The Written Warning is to be given to the employee by the supervisor and the employee may respond in writing to the warning and have the response attached. (2003)
D.	The Written Warning and the written response by the employee, if any, will not be placed in the employee's personnel file. (2003)
E.	This is an informal warning.
F.	An employee issued a Written Warning who does not receive a subsequent Written Warning, Reprimand, or Suspension/Demotion for the same or related matter within a 24-month period, shall not have the Written Warning referenced in future disciplinary proceedings and it shall be removed from the file. Written Warnings issued for conduct related to violence or the threat of violence may be referenced in future disciplinary proceedings. Conduct considered to be violent is defined as the exertion of physical force so as to injure, damage, abuse, or intimidate. Conduct considered to be a threat is defined as a communicated
11
intent to inflict physical or other harm on any person or on property. An employee who has had no incidences of violence or of threatening violence for a substantial period of time (normally at least 60 months), and who has demonstrated s/he has overcome violent behaviors, may request to not have the Written Warning referenced in future disciplinary proceedings. (2003)
8.3.4	Step II (Written Reprimand)
A.	The supervisor shall meet with the employee to discuss the unsatisfactory performance and/or misconduct and the reprimand form.
B.	An Association representative may be present.
C.	A copy of the reprimand form will be placed in the employee's personnel file.
D.	The employee may respond in writing to the reprimand form and have the response placed in his/her personnel file.
E.	A reprimand form issued to an employee who has met the expected standards, and who has received no subsequent Written Warnings, Reprimands, or Suspension/Demotions for the same or related matter shall not be referenced and shall be removed from the employee's personnel file anytime after thirty-six (36) months have elapsed from the original date of issue. Reprimands issued for conduct related violence or the threat of violence may remain in an employee’s personnel file and may be referenced in future disciplinary proceedings. Conduct considered to be violent is defined as the exertion of physical force so as to injure, damage, abuse, or intimidate. Conduct considered to be a threat is defined as a communicated intent to inflict physical or other harm on any person or on property. An employee who has had no incidences of violence or of threatening violence for a substantial period of time (normally at least 60 months), and who has demonstrated s/he has overcome violent behaviors may, upon request of the employee, have a Reprimand removed from his/her personnel file. (2003)
8.3.5	Step III (Suspension/Demotion)
A.	The supervisor shall meet with the employee to discuss the unsatisfactory performance and/or misconduct and the suspension/demotion.
B.	The employee shall be notified that he/she has the right to have an Association representative present at the meeting.
C.	A copy of the suspension/demotion letter and the discipline recommendation form will be placed in the employee's personnel file.
D.	The employee may respond in writing to the suspension/ demotion letter and have the response placed in his/her personnel file.
8.3.6	Step IV (Termination)
A.	A pre-termination hearing will be held with the employee to discuss the unsatisfactory performance and/or misconduct.
12
B.	The employee shall be notified that he/she has the right to have an Association representative present at the hearing. The employee may also use other types of representation at this level, provided at least three (3) days notice is given to the District.
C.	A final meeting may be held with the employee to deliver the termination letter and to inform the employee of the decision to terminate.
8.4	APPEALS
8.4.1	Post-probationary employees who are suspended without pay, who are demoted or
discharged as a disciplinary measure may appeal such action through the grievance procedure (see Article 7).
8.4.2	Probationary employees who are serving t heir i nitial n ine (9) m onth p robationary
period may not appeal disciplinary actions through the grievance procedure (see Article 7).
8.4.3	In the event the appeal reaches arbitration, the sole issue upon which the arbitrator
is to render an opinion shall be whether or not there was just cause for the District to take the specific disciplinary action which was taken.
8.5	ABSENCE WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION
8.5.1	Any absence without authorization shall be grounds for disciplinary action. Any
unauthorized absence for three (3) consecutive work days shall constitute an abandonment of position and may be treated by the District as a resignation and the provisions of Articles 7 and 8 shall not apply.
8.5.2	Prior to noticing the employee of his/her separation under this section, the District
will, with the exception of the initial nine (9) month probationary period employees, send a certified letter to the employee at his/her address of record advising of the District's intent to separate them unless they contact the District within six (6) calendar days from the date the letter was mailed. In the event the employee does contact the appropriate administrator within the six (6) days, the District may still proceed with discipline, however, the action shall be subject to Articles 7 and 8 for post-probationary employees, as defined above.
ARTICLE 9
SICK LEAVE AND OTHER LEAVES
9.1	SICK LEAVE
9.1.1	General Provisions
9.1.1.1	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least five (5) hours per day or twenty-five (25) hours per week are eligible for leaves in this Article.
13
9.1.1.2	Sick leave is to be used only if the employee is unable to perform
his/her duties. In instances where an administrator is concerned that inappropriate use of sick leave has occurred, verification of the employee's illness or disability, may be required in order to charge the absence to sick leave.
In the event of accident, injury, disability, or safety concerns verification of the employee’s fitness to return to work may be required by the District. T he D istrict m ay require a n i ndependent medical examination of the employee at the District’s expense, with a physician selected by the District. The results of such examination are to be forwarded to the District.
9.1.1.3	Sick leave must be earned before it can be accrued and used. To
be earned for any biweekly pay period, the employee must be in pay status (meaning on-the-job, and/or on paid vacation leave, sick leave, holiday leave, etc.).
9.1.2	Accrual and Accumulation
9.1.2.1	Employees will accrue sick leave at the rate of .058 hour of sick
leave for each hour in pay status.
Examples:
A twelve (12) month employee paid over twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods would accrue .058 per hour x 26 pay periods for approximately 15 days sick leave.
A ten (10) month employee paid over twenty-two (22) biweekly pay periods would accrue .058 per hour x 22 pay periods for approximately 12.76 days sick leave.
9.1.2.2	Employees who work less than eight (8) hours per day shall accrue sick leave on a proportional basis (viz., a food service employee who works a six-and-one-half-hour (6-1/2) day would earn .58 days of sick leave per biweekly pay period - each sick leave day being six-and-one-half (6-1/2) hours).
9.1.2.3	Unlimited days of sick leave may be accumulated.
9.1.3	Upon separation, employees with at least ten (10) years of service in Washoe
County shall be entitled to payment for accumulated sick leave in accordance with Washoe County School District Regulation 4242.1. For purposes of this section, years of service shall include years of service in a non-bargaining unit classified position. Regulation 4242.1 shall not be incorporated into this Agreement by references and thus shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
9.1.3.1	For purpose of this article, “separated” shall mean retired, resigned or deceased.
9.1.3.2	Total monies available for this compensation shall be determined by a tax rate limitation of 0.0001 of the District’s ad valorem tax base.
14
9.1.3.3	The rate of pay shall be as follows: 25% of the days of accumulated sick leave, to a maximum of 190 days, times the employee’s daily rate of pay at the end of the previous fiscal year.
9.1.3.4	Checks for said unused sick leave will be distributed to the
employee within 90 days after the close of the fiscal year in which the employee separates. Checks for said unused sick leave for the _	estate of d eceased e mployees w ill b e d istributed t o t he e state a s
~	soon as possible after the employee’s death.
9.1.3.5	Employees may purchase PERS Service Credit with this benefit.
9.2	LEAVE FOR SURGERY AND MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS
9.2.1	Use of accrued sick leave shall be allowed for surgery and/or medical
appointments. An administrator/supervisor may require advance approval and/or a medical note from a physician.
Employees will make a reasonable effort to schedule medical appointments outside of their regularly scheduled workday. If this is not possible, employees will make a reasonable effort to schedule medical appointments at a time that will be least disruptive to the work location.
9.3	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
=====	9.3.1	Employees will be granted one (1) or more leaves of absence per year for
bereavement of the immediate family. Not more than ten (10) consecutive days per occasion shall be allowed and leave will be deducted from sick leave. Immediate family shall mean: Mother, father, husband, wife, children, sister, brother, motherin-law, father-in-law, foster parents, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, step parents, half brother, half sister, grandchildren, grandparents, aunts and uncles, and any person living in the immediate household of the employee. Request for extension of this leave shall be directed to the Superintendent.
9.4	FAMILY ILLNESS
9.4.1	Employees will be granted a leave of absence with pay, to be deducted from sick
leave, for not more than ten (10) days per year when unavoidably absent because of a serious accident or illness within the immediate family. Immediate family shall mean: Mother, father, husband, wife, children, sister, brother, mother-in-law, fatherin-law, foster parents, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, step _	parents, half brother, half sister, grandchildren, grandparents, a unts, u ncles, a nd
any person living in the immediate household of the employee. Request for extension of this leave should be directed to the Superintendent. Verification of the illness from the attending physician may be required.
9.5	USE OF SICK LEAVE TO SUPPLEMENT S.I.I.S. BENEFITS
9.5.1	Employees may use accrued sick leave to supplement S.I.I.S. benefits provided,
however, the sick leave payments shall not exceed the difference between the employee's salary and the S.I.I.S. benefits. If sick leave is used to supplement S.I.I.S. benefits, one-third (1/3) day of sick leave will be deducted from the employee's sick leave accrual.
15
9.6
CHILD-REARING LEAVE
9.6.1	Upon written verification from her physician that she is unable to perform her duties
due to disabilities caused by or attributed to by pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, or recovery therefrom, an employee may have the option of charging such period of disability to her accrued sick leave.
9.6.2	An employee may be granted a child-rearing leave without pay not to exceed twelve
(12) calendar months upon written application to the Board of Trustees submitted at least one (1) month prior to the commencement of the requested leave. Such request must be accompanied by a birth certificate, if appropriate.
9.6.3	Such leave may be requested at any time during the pregnancy or within four (4)
months after the birth of the child.
9.6.4	No benefits shall accrue to the employee while on a child- rearing leave, except that
the employee shall be credited with one (1) year of service for salary advancement if he/she worked the major portion of the school year at the time such leave commenced. Upon return, the employee shall be credited with any accumulated unused sick leave.
9.6.5	In the event the female employee is on a child-rearing leave and becomes unable to
perform her duties due to such disabilities caused by or attributed to childbirth as verified in writing by her physician, she may have the option of charging such period of time to her accrued sick leave. Upon termination of such disability, the employee may continue her child-rearing leave.
9.6.6	Upon written application to the Board of Trustees, showing unusual and extenuating
circumstances necessitating extended child-rearing leave, the Board of Trustees, at its discretion, may extend the leave for an additional period up to twelve (12) calendar months.
9.6.7	Adoption Leave shall be granted to an employee who has been employed in the
District for twenty-seven (27) working months. The District shall be notified by the employee of the pending adoption as soon as the employee has applied for adoption. A leave shall commence no later than nine (9) months after the placement of the child in the home.
9.6.8	Three (3) months prior to the expiration of a child-rearing/ adoption leave, the
employee shall notify the District whether he/she plans to return to work.
9.6.9	Upon return, the employee shall be paid at the salary step on the salary schedule
immediately higher than the step applicable at the beginning of such leave, provided that the employee worked the major portion of the school year at the time the leave commenced. U pon return, the employee shall be credited with the u nused sick leave accumulated at the time the leave of absence commenced.
16
9.7	PERSONAL LEAVE
9.7.1	Upon five (5) days advance notification to the supervisor, one (1) day of personal
leave shall be granted each year. In case of personal emergency, notice should be given as early as possible. This day is to be deducted from accumulated sick leave, provided the personal business indicated cannot be taken care of outside the scheduled work day. The personal business must be such that it will not reflect adversely on the District. The reason for personal leave need only be discussed in general terms as it relates to the above two requirements.
9.7.2	Employees who have completed three (3) years of service will have two (2) days of
personal leave under the same conditions as above.
9.7.3	Upon reasonable prior notification in writing to the supervisor, an employee shall be
granted one (1) day of personal leave per year without pay. Such authorization shall also be in writing.
9.7.4	District staffing needs as well as emergency situations may require denial of
personal leave requests and/or rescheduling of approved personal leave dates. An example o f a n e mergency i s a ny s ituation t hat m ight t hreaten t he I ife, s afety, o r health of employees, students, or the public, or that might cause damage to any District facility.
9.8	JURY DUTY
9.8.1	All employees who are required to report for jury duty shall not have loss in pay due
to such service. However, any jury pay received by the employee shall be remitted to the Business and Finance Department. An employee who reports for such service and is excused there from shall immediately contact the supervisor and report for work, if requested.
9.9	MILITARY LEAVE
9.9.1	Employees who must serve under orders in military programs shall have no loss of
salary from the School District for required participation in such programs for up to fifteen (15) days per year.
9.10	SCHOOL BUSINESS LEAVE
9.10.1 Any employee requested or required to participate in a District sponsored activity or meeting which occurs during his/her work hours shall do so without loss of pay, unless the request clearly indicates participation is voluntary and no reimbursement will occur.
9.11 ASSOCIATION LEAVE
9.11.1	Upon reasonable prior notification in writing to the appropriate supervisor and administrator (to be forwarded to Human Resources), the President of the Association or the President's designee shall be granted up to thirty (30) days leave with pay to be used for Association business. The thirty (30) days shall be distributed among the separate bargaining units as the Association desires. Such
17
leave may accumulate up to forty (40) days in any given year. An additional two (2) days may be used by the President or a designee with pay, however, the Association shall reimburse the District at the President's or designee's hourly rate for such time. Such leave may be taken in hourly increments.
9.11.2	The Association President may have a one-half year or a one (1) full year leave of absence with pay. In the event the President takes a one-half or one (1) full year leave with pay, the Association shall reimburse the District for all of the President’s compensation and benefit costs, including salary, PERS, Medicare, unemployment, medical insurance, etc. The Association shall notify the District sixty (60) days prior to the commencement of the leave. Upon completion of the leave, the District will make every effort to return the President to the position and location he/she formerly held.
9.12 LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
9.12.1	Classified employees may request in writing a leave of absence without pay for a specific period of time. Such leaves must be approved by the employee's principal or the administrator in charge of the Division in which the employee works. In the event a request is denied the principal/administrator in writing will notify the employee as to the reason for denial. The employee is to follow the supervisory chain of command, up to and including the Superintendent. If the employee is not satisfied with the resolution, the employee may follow the complaint procedure. Employees with less than six (6) months of service may not be granted a leave of absence without pay in excess of one (1) calendar month.
Employees with more than six (6) months, but less than twelve (12) months of service, may not be granted a leave of absence without pay in excess of three (3) calendar months.
Employees with twelve (12) months or more of service may be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceed twelve (12) calendar months. Any leave of absence of one (1) month or more shall not be counted towards the completion of any required probationary period.
Failure to return to work following a leave of absence shall be grounds for termination.
Employees on a leave of more than 90 days are required to inform their administrative supervisors no later than 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of their I eave, if they will or will not return to work. N otification m ust b e in writing. Failure to provide written notification in accordance with this section will automatically forfeit the right of the employee to return and shall be considered a resignation. (2003)
An unauthorized absence for three (3) consecutive work days following a leave of absence shall constitute a voluntary "quit" (resignation).
9.12.2	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least four (4) hours per day and twenty (20) hours per week may, with the supervisor’s approval, be eligible for leaves as outlined in 9.12.1.
18
9.12.3	If an employee accepts a position resulting from the current incumbent taking a leave of absence, and the employee accepting the position does not receive a leave of absence from his/her position, and if the current incumbent returns to his/her previous position, the employee filling the position shall separate from the District and will have no rights under Article 14, Reduction In Force.
9.13	LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR VOTING
9.13.1	Absence with pay may be granted by the appointing authority to allow employees time off to vote, pursuant to the provisions of NRS 293.463.
9.14	SICK LEAVE BANK
9.14.1	The sick leave bank is provided to assist classified employees who are unable to perform the duties of their position because of catastrophic or life threatening illness, or accident and which will require a lengthy convalescence, providing days are available in the sick leave bank.
9.14.2	In order for an employee to be eligible to participate in the sick leave bank, the employee must have been employed by Washoe County School District for a minimum of one (1) year of continuous service.
9.14.3	Employees interested in participating in the sick leave bank shall complete and submit a Sick Leave Bank Participation/ Authorization form to the Sick Leave Bank Committee of the Nevada Classified School Employees Association (NCSEA).
9.14.3.1	Sick Leave Bank Participation/Authorization forms will only be accepted d uring t he o pen e nrollment p eriod o f O ctober 1 through October 31.
9.14.3.2	Sick Leave Bank Participation/Authorization forms are available upon request from the Human Resources office or the NCSEA office.
9.14.4	Employees who enroll in the sick leave bank shall donate and have deducted from their own sick leave account one (1) day for the operation of the sick leave bank.
9.14.5	Employees participating in the sick leave bank shall continue their participation from year to year unless they notify the Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee in writing during the open enrollment period of their intent to withdraw.
9.14.5.1	An employee who withdraws from the sick leave bank may not be reimbursed for sick leave days already contributed.
9.14.6	Employees who retire from the District may donate to the sick leave bank a maximum of one (1) unused sick leave day from their personal sick leave account. This donation is in addition to any other days contributed during the year.
19
9.14.7
9.14.8
9.14.9
9.14.10
9.14.11
9.14.12
9.14.13
9.14.14
9.14.15
9.14.16
If at any time during a fiscal year, the total number of hours in the sick leave bank is less than 480 hours, the Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee will inform Human Resources and all sick leave bank participants that one (1) sick leave day will be deducted from their personal sick leave for operation of the sick leave bank. If an employee I s u nable t o d onate a s ick I eave d ay b ecause t he employee does not have a day to donate, the employee will have a day deducted as soon as a sick leave day is accumulated.
9.14.7.	1 The circumstances that lead to this contribution shall constitute a waiver of the one day limit specified in 9.14.4.
The total number of hours that may be utilized from the sick leave bank in one year is 3,500.
Hours not used will be carried over to the next year.
Only employees who have contributed to the sick leave bank are eligible to receive assistance from the sick leave bank.
Employees must exhaust all available appropriate leaves and compensatory time (if any) before they can become eligible to receive assistance from the bank.
Employees who enroll in the sick leave bank in October are not eligible for assistance from the bank until January 2. Employees who wish to apply for assistance from the sick leave bank shall complete and submit a Sick Leave Bank Assistance Application to the Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee. Sick Leave Bank Assistance Applications are available upon request from the Human Resources office or the NCSEA office.
9.14.12	.1 The Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee shall review the employee's sick leave bank application and sick leave account and usage.
9.14.12	.2 Employees who participate in the sick leave bank shall allow the Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee to review their sick leave account and usage.
The Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee shall forward its decision to the Human Resources office. Responsibility for determining who shall receive assistance from the bank rests exclusively with the NCSEA's Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee. The NCSEA holds the District harmless in the event of any action by an employee relative to use of the bank. The decision of the Committee is final and is not subject to review, complaint, or grievance.
An employee approved for assistance from the sick leave bank may be granted a maximum of sixty (60) days of sick leave per year.
An employee who receives sick leave from the sick leave bank is entitled to payment for that leave at a rate no greater than his/her current hourly rate of pay.
Any sick leave which an employee receives from the sick leave bank, which was not used at the time the catastrophic illness or accident ceased to exist or upon resignation or termination of the employment of the employee, shall be returned to the sick leave bank.
20
Sick Leave Bank days shall not be used for elective surgery.
9.14.17	An employee receiving assistance from the sick leave bank shall not accrue leave days.
9.14.18	If an employee is approved to receive assistance and the employee is receiving some form of compensation because of an industrial injury, each sick leave day granted will only equal the amount of compensation needed to offset the total amount of the employee's daily rate of pay.
9.14.19	Except for 9.14.2, the term "year" for purposes of this procedure shall be the time period of October 1 through September 30.
9.14.20	Employees enrolled in the sick leave bank, who transfer into a position which does not receive sick leave, will no longer be eligible for the sick leave bank and will have all sick leave days donated returned to the employee. If the employee previously received assistance from the sick leave bank, no sick leave days will be returned to the employee.
9.15 ASSOCIATION VISITS
An Association Representative may meet with an employee. The conduct of such business shall be such as not to interfere with the performance of the employee’s duties. The Association Representative will notify the appropriate site-level administrator and will inform the site-level administrator on his/her arrival in the building in order to facilitate the purpose of the visit.
ARTICLE 10
VACATIONS AND HOLIDAYS
10.1 VACATION LEAVE: General Provisions
10.1.1	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least five (5) hours per day or twenty-five
(25)	hours per week are eligible for vacation.
10.1.2	For vacation leave to be earned, the employee must be in a pay status (meaning on-the-job, and/or on vacation leave, paid sick leave, holiday leave, etc.).
10.1.3	Vacation leave must be earned before it can be accrued and used.
10.1.4	Employees who work less than eight (8) hours per day shall accrue vacation leave
on a proportional basis.
10.1.5	Reasonable consideration will be given to an employee's request for specified vacation dates. Requests for vacation time shall be approved by the employee's supervisor.
10.1.6	District staffing needs as well as emergency situations may require denial of vacation requests and/or rescheduling of approved vacation dates.
10.1.7	Employee vacation requests will be submitted to the employee’s supervisor with as much prior notice as reasonably possible.
21
10.2
VACATION LEAVE: Accrual and Accumulation
10.2.1	Employees shall not have a vacation leave balance of more than the maximum amount of vacation leave days they can accrue over a two (2) year period. For example, if an employee accrues 20 days of vacation leave per year, the maximum amount of vacation leave days the employee is allowed to accumulate is 40.
Other than as specified in 10.2.2, employees are not allowed to accrue vacation leave days beyond the two (2) year maximum. In the event an employee’s vacation leave balance exceeds the two (2) year maximum, the days accumulated above the two (2) year maximum will be eliminated from the employee’s vacation leave balance.
Employees who have exceeded the two (2) year maximum vacation accrual as of the ratification of this Agreement, shall have until June 30, 2003, to reduce their vacation accrual to the maximum amount allowable under this Article. Employees who do not comply with this Article after June 30, 2003, shall have all vacation days that exceed the maximum amount eliminated from their vacation balance.
10.2.2	In unusual circumstances, earned vacation leave may be accumulated beyond the two (2) year maximum, provided the employee was unable to take vacation leave due to workload. In order to exceed the vacation leave maximum on accumulation, the employee must have requested vacation leave in sufficient time so that had the request been approved, his/her accumulated vacation leave would not have exceeded the two (2) year maximum.
10.2.3	Accrual Rates:
10.2.3.1	During the first three (3) years of service ... .039 per hour.
10.2.3.2	During the fourth (4th) through tenth (10th) years of service ...
.058 per hour.
10.2.3.3	During the eleventh (11th) through fifteenth (15th) years of service ... .070 per hour.
10.2.3.4	During the sixteenth (16th) year and thereafter of service ... .077 per hour.
Examples:
A twelve (12) month employee working eight (8) hours per day and paid over twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods would accrue in their first three (3) years, .039 per hour x 26 pay periods for approximately ten (10) days per year.
A ten (10) month employee working eight (8) hours per day and paid over twenty-two (22) biweekly pay periods would accrue in their first three (3) years, .039 per hour x 22 pay periods for approximately 8.58 days per year.
22
10.3
10.2.3.5	Examples Of Approximate Vacation Accruals (12 Month
Employee)
Length of Service Vacation Davs Accrued
0-3 years	=	10 days
4-10 years	=	15 days
11-15 years	=	18 days
16+years	=	20 days
10.2.4	Vacation Leave:
10.2.4.1	Employees who work less than 12 months will be encouraged to
take vacation when school is not in session. Employees working less than 12 months are eligible to utilize vacation leave during break periods. For example: vacation leave may be utilized during off-track, summer, Christmas, New Year, or Easter Breaks. The vacation time must be utilized immediately following the completion of an employee’s work schedule.
10.2.5	Vacation Accrual:
10.2.5.1	Only years of service in a position which accrued vacation leave
will be credited towards the accrual rate as defined in 10.2.3 of this article.
SCHEDULED HOLIDAYS
10.3.1	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least five (5) hours per day or twenty-five (25) hours per week are eligible for the following scheduled holidays (pursuant to NRS 236):
Holiday	Dav/Date
1. New Year's Day	January 1
2. Martin Luther King's Birthday	3rd Monday in January
3. Washington's Birthday	3rd Monday in Feb.
4. Memorial Day	Last Monday in May
5. Independence Day	July 4
6. Labor Day	1st Monday in Sept.
7. Nevada Day	Last Friday in October
8. Veterans Day	November 11
9. Thanksgiving Day	4th Thursday in November
10. Family Day	4th Friday in November
11. Christmas Day	December 25
In order for an employee to receive pay for a holiday, an employee must be in a paid status, including vacation and CTO, for any portion of the day, the day preceding or following the holiday (unless the day following the holiday is the first scheduled day to return to work for the new academic school year, or the day preceding the holiday is the last scheduled day of work for the academic school year. (2003)
23
Examples: (1) A Library Assistant scheduled to begin work for the school year on the day following Labor Day would not be paid for Labor Day; (2) an employee whose last scheduled day of work precedes Memorial Day would not be paid for Memorial Day. (2003)
10.3.2	Classified employees eligible for holiday pay who work at a year-round school listed under 10.3.2.4, will be eligible for holiday pay under the following conditions: (2003)
10.3.2.1	Employees will be eligible for holiday pay for holidays that they would have received compensation for had the school continued utilizing a traditional calendar.
10.3.2.2	Employees who voluntarily transfer to any other location will no longer be eligible for this section.
10.3.2.3	Employees who transfer to a school with a year-round calendar after the date the school began operating on a year-round calendar, will not be eligible for this section.
10.3.2.4	Effective July 1, 2003, schools implementing a year-round calendar will not be eligible for this article. Schools that will continue to receive this benefit under the provisions listed above, are as follows: (2003)
Anderson, Beasley, Booth, Cannan, Corbett, Huffaker, Mathews, Picollo, Alice Smith, Spanish Springs ES, Sun Valley, Taylor, VanGorder, Veterans, and Winnemucca. (2003)
ARTICLE 11
WAGES AND INSURANCE
11.1	WAGE SCHEDULES
11.1.1 Pay ranges for Supervisory and Non-Supervisory employees are included in the salary schedule(s) in Appendix C.
11.2 SALARY ADVANCEMENT
11.2.1	Classified employees hired prior to January 1 of any year will be eligible for a step increment on July 1. Those employees hired after January 1 of any year will be eligible for a step increment on July 1 of the following year.
11.2.2	If an employee is not recommended for a salary advance (step increase) within a pay range, such recommendation must be submitted in writing by June 1 to the Human Resources office with a copy to the employee. Such recommendation to defer the step increase must be supported by a statement describing the performance deficiencies. Within ten (10) days after notification the employee may request a review before his/her supervisor, the department head or his/her designee and an Association Representative to discuss the reason(s) for denial.
11.2.3	If an employee believes the recommended deferment of a step increase is unwarranted, he/she may seek a resolution of such action under Article 7.
24
11.2.4	Should the District have the need to hire a new employee at a step higher than Step 1 of the Classified Salary Schedule the following will occur prior to the employee being hired:
11.2.4.1 The District and the Association President, or his/her designee, shall meet within five (5) days to discuss the rationale for the placement and any concerns the Association may have with the placement. The District will consider the concerns of the Association and will notify the Association of its decision.
11.3	LONGEVITY BONUS
11.3.1	Effective July 1,1990, employees who have completed twelve (12), thirteen (13), or fourteen (14) years of continuous service shall receive a longevity bonus of $400 each year. Such bonus will be paid on the pay warrant following their anniversary date.
11.3.2	Employees who have completed fifteen (15), sixteen (16), or seventeen (17) years of continuous service before July 1, 1988, shall receive a longevity bonus of $700 each year. Such bonus will be paid on the pay warrant for the first pay period in July.
11.3.3	Effective July 1, 1988, employees who have completed fifteen (15), sixteen (16), or seventeen (17) years of continuous service shall receive a longevity bonus of $700 each year. Such bonus will be paid on the pay warrant following their anniversary date.
11.3.4	Employees who have completed eighteen (18) years or more of continuous service before July 1,1989, shall receive a longevity bonus of $800 each year. Such bonus will be paid on the pay warrant for the first pay period in July.
11.3.5	Effective July 1, 1989, employees who have completed eighteen (18) years or more of continuous service shall receive a longevity bonus of $800 each year. Such bonus will be paid on the pay warrant following their anniversary date.
11.3.6	Longevity Scheduled (Based on Years Completed)
Length of Service	Bonus Account
12-14 years	$400
15-17 years	$700
18+years	$800
11.3.7	Eligible employees who retire prior to their anniversary date shall have the amount of longevity bonus due pro-rated.
11.4	OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY TIME
11.4.1	Unit members who qualify for holidays shall have those days count as days “worked” for purposes of computing overtime. Unit members who qualify for sick leave shall have those days count as days “worked” for purposes of computing overtime.
25
11.4.2	Overtime is defined as work in excess of the employee's regular scheduled work day and work week. Work week is defined as any seven (7) consecutive day period commencing Saturday and ending the following Friday.
11.4.3	All overtime and Compensatory Time Off (CTO) in lieu of paid overtime must be authorized in advance by the appropriate administrator.
11.4.3.1	An administrator will consider the desires of the employee in determining whether to award pay for overtime or CTO.
11.4.3.2	If accrued CTO cannot be granted during the three (3) month period immediately following the overtime performance, upon request by the employee, the earned CTO shall be paid. After four (4) months, the earned CTO must be paid. Compensation shall be paid for such credited time at the employee's straight time hourly rate in effect at the time the CTO is paid.
11.4.3.3	Employees are eligible to utilize CTO during break periods. For example, CTO may be utilized during off track, summer, Christmas, New Year or Easter breaks. The CTO must be utilized immediately following the completion of an employees work schedule.
11.4.4	All time worked in excess of a regular work day or regular work week (except as provided in 11.4.5) will be paid at the straight time hourly rate or credited as CTO on an hour-for-hour basis.
11.4.5	All time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week will be paid at the rate of time-and-one-half (1-1/2) or credited as CTO on a one-and-one-half (1-1/2) hours off for each hour worked in excess of forty (40) hours.
11.4.6	An employee who performs two (2) or more different kinds of work, for which different straight time hourly rates are established, will be paid during the overtime hours at a rate not less than one and one-half times the straight time hourly rate established for the type of work s/he is performing during such overtime hours.
11.4.7	Overtime and compensatory time will be processed in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
11.4.8	With the approval of an administrator, and in accordance with 29 USC, Section 2(b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, an employee may elect to work in either a 1040 or a 2080 plan formed pursuant to this statute. Said employee will be entitled to overtime as set forth in the above section, depending on the plan adopted and as amended from time to time. An employee may elect to forego working on any of the above-referenced plans upon notification in writing to his or her supervisor.
11.5	HOLIDAY PAY
11.5.1	An employee who is required to work on a regularly scheduled holiday shall be paid for the holiday plus time-and-one-half (1-1/2) for the hours worked on that day.
26
11.6	CALL BACK PAY
11.6.1	Any employee who is called back to work after completion of his/her regular shift with less than twelve (12) hours notice shall be paid from the time the employee arrives at the work location until the employee has completed his/her task. The employee shall also receive call back pay of three (3) additional hours. Call back pay shall be paid at straight time.
11.6.2	If an employee is called back to work because of inefficiency or error in the performance of his/her responsibilities, appropriate discipline will be taken which may include not being paid the call back pay.
11.7	CALL IN EARLY PAY (2003)
Any employee who is called in to perform work early more than one (1) hour prior to the start of their scheduled shift, due to unforeseen circumstances, shall receive call in early pay of one and one-half (1 14) additional hours. Call in early pay shall be paid at straight time.
11.8	REPORT TO WORK PAY
11.8.1 Should the employee be required to report to work and no work can be provided, then the employee shall be paid as provided for under NRS 391.180(7), if applicable, or for two (2) hours of work beyond the time actually worked, if any, if NRS 391.180(7) is not applicable.
For example, Mrs. A reports to work Monday morning, works two (2) hours and extensive storm damage forces closure of the building. Mrs. A receives pay for actual time worked plus two (2) hours. However, under no circumstances shall any employee be given report pay that exceeds his/her regular scheduled workday.
11.9	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT PAY
11.9.1	Employees may be temporarily assigned to fill a position at a higher job classification. If such assignment exceeds three (3) consecutive working days duration, and if the employee is to continue in the temporary assignment without a break, he/she shall then be reclassified to the higher classification for the balance of such temporary assignment.
11.10	MILEAGE ALLOWANCE
11.10.1 In the event an employee covered hereunder is required to use his/her private transportation for school district business, the employee will be reimbursed at the rate set by the Internal Revenue Service, to be adjusted effective July 1 of each year. Mileage will be calculated and paid for travel between work locations but shall not be paid for travel between the home or point of origin and the work location; or from the work location to the home or point of origin.
27
11.11
GROUP INSURANCE
11.11.1	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least five-and-one-half (5-1/2) hours per day or twenty-seven-and-one-half (27-1/2) hours per week are eligible for group insurance. In accordance with District policy, employees will begin receiving group insurance 90 calendar days after the first day of employment in a position that is eligible for group insurance. (2003)
11.11.2	Insurance premium payments by the District per month per employee for the fiscal 2003-04 and 2004-05 school years shall not exceed the following: (2003)
January 1, 2002-December 31,2003	District Contribution (2003)	'
Medical Dental Life Vision	$140.88 Biweekly $ 15.44 Biweekly $ 6.92 Biweekly $ 5.57 Biweekly $168.81 Total
January 1,2004-June 30, 2005	District Contribution (2003)
Medical Dental Life Vision	$166.90 Biweekly $ 15.41 Biweekly $ 4.99 Biweekly $ 5.17 Biweekly $192.47 Total		
The District shall consult with the Association regarding benefits to be included in the insurance program.
January 1, 2005: Increased insurance contribution equal to the amount received from the State. (2003)
Effective July 1, 2000, eligible employees working a less than 12-month schedule will be eligible for 12-months of District paid medical insurance coverage as outlined in 11.11.2. Eligible employees working in less than 12-month positions during a particular school year, and who are not scheduled to return the following school year, will have their medical insurance coverage terminated the date their position ends.
Relative to the implementation of this article, the following will apply for the 2000-01 school year:
Eligible employees working a less than 12-month schedule who are scheduled to return to work in the 2000-01 school year, will be eligible for medical insurance effective July 1, 2000. Eligible employees in less than 12-month positions during the 1999-2000 school year and whose positions are not scheduled to continue for the 2000-01 school year, will not be eligible for medical coverage beyond the day their position ends.
Eligible employees in positions which are funded from any source other than the general fund, with the exception of Nutrition Services, are not eligible for medical insurance until the first day they report to work in the 2000-01 school year.
28
11.12
RETIREE SUBSIDY (2003)
11.12.1 The District agrees to continue the current retiree subsidy program for those classified employees who retired prior to the 2004-05 fiscal year subject to the provisions hereof. Beginning with the 2004-05 fiscal year, the D istrict agrees to provide a retiree insurance subsidy program for classified employees who retire from the District after fifteen (15) or more years of continuous service, provided that employees hired beginning July 1, 1999, and thereafter, will not be eligible for the retiree subsidy. Subject to the above provisions, individuals hired by the District into positions not covered by this Agreement (classified positions scheduled to work less than four (4) hours per day), prior to July 1, 1999, and who are subsequently hired without a break in service into a position covered by this Agreement, shall be eligible for the retiree subsidy. The cost of such a subsidy shall not exceed .0000389 of the assessed valuation (the “Cap”). In recognition of the increase in the cost of providing an insurance premium subsidy to retirees and in order to continue to provide a subsidy while remaining within the above-referenced Cap, as well as allowing the retirees’ subsidy percentage decrease to be phased in on a gradual basis, the current matrix and application of the Cap will be modified to reflect the following changes:
1	. Effective fiscal year 2003-04, the matrix will remain the same, but all other eligible retirees shall receive a retiree subsidy limited to 28% of the monthly insurance premium payments beginning January 1,2004.
2	(a) Effective fiscal year 2004-05, those eligible retirees who have previously received a subsidy of 60% or less shall receive a subsidy of at least 38% of the monthly insurance premium payment without regard to the Cap.
(b)	Those eligible retirees who have previously received a subsidy of 80% shall receive a subsidy of 60% of the monthly insurance premium.
(c)	Those eligible retirees who have previously received a subsidy of 1 00% shall receive a subsidy of 80% of the monthly insurance premium.
(d)	If the Cap is not reached in providing the subsidy under 2(a), (b) and (c), above, then eligible retirees described in subsection (a) shall receive a subsidy of up to 40% until the Cap is reached.
3. Effective fiscal year 2005-06, the matrix shall cease to apply to all retirees and all eligible retirees shall receive the same subsidy regardless of income or time of retirement. As part of the negotiations for an Agreement covering fiscal years 2003-04, 2004-05, and 2005-06, and in order to have the decrease in the retirees’ subsidy percentage be phased in on a gradual basis, t he D istrict a grees n ot t o s trictly e nforce t he C ap f or t he 2005-06 fiscal year and to provide a subsidy of at least 35% to all eligible retirees for the 2005-06 fiscal year. If the Cap is not reached with a 35% subsidy, then the District will pay up to a 40% subsidy until the Cap is reached for fiscal year 2005-06. Unless and until such a time as Section 11.12 is mutually re-negotiated and implemented for fiscal years following 2005-06, the Cap will be enforced and all eligible retirees will receive the same subsidy.
29
11.13	TOOL ALLOWANCE
11.13.1	All employees in the Mechanic I, Assistant Mechanic, and Garage Service Attendant classifications who are required to provide their own tools will be provided a tool allowance of $300. This allowance will be paid in July of each year and will be used for the upkeep and replacement of tools. (2003)
11.14	EARLY SEPARATION INCENTIVE PLAN (ESIP)
11.14.1	The District will provide an Early Separation Incentive Plan (ESIP) within the following limitations:
Employees wishing to participate in ESIP must: 1 ) have completed 15 years of continuous service with the Washoe County School District as of August 31 of the year in which they participate; 2) have less than 36 years of credited service with PERS as of August 31 of the year in which they participate; 3) submit a completed ESIP application by the announced deadline; and 4) separate from the District’s employ no later than August 31 of the year in which they participate. Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the amount of the approved incentive will be paid to the employee as a monthly stipend of no more than $200 from the ESIP Trust Fund until the dollar amount of the approved incentive is exhausted. (2003)
11.14.2	Classified employees will be eligible for an incentive of thirty (30%) percent of their current salary. Classified employees approved for participation will be granted an incentive not to exceed thirty (30%) percent of the highest annual salary on the Teachers Salary Schedule.
11.14.3	The total amount to be funded for incentives in any given year shall be $48,000. If the cost of the incentive (if approved) exceeds the amount in the appropriate fund, those with the most years of service with the school district shall be recommended first.
11.14.4	Should the employee become deceased prior to receiving the total ESIP entitlement, the balance shall be paid to the designated employee’s beneficiary or the employee’s estate.
11.14.5	All other matters related to this program will be governed by Administrative Regulation 4236 which shall not be incorporated into this Agreement by reference and thus not be subject to the grievance procedure.
11.15	ISOLATION ALLOWANCE
11.15.1	The District agrees to continue the present isolation allowance to employees at Gerlach and Natchez. Employees at Gerlach shall receive $700 per year, and employees at Natchez shall receive $250 per year. Employees working less than 4.2 hours per day are not eligible for this allowance. (2003)
30
11.16
12.1
HIGHLY QUALIFIED PROVISION
11.16.1	Effective January 1, 2004, Teacher Aides who are required by the District to meet the “highly qualified” state and federal requirements of HR1 and SB1, shall be reclassified from a range 10 to a range 11 on the Classified Salary Schedule. Reclassification of the position shall occur upon submission by the employee of his/her credentials to Human Resources, and upon review, verification, and approval of the credentials by Human Resources. Once approval is given, the reclassification of the position shall be made effective in the next available payroll.
Effective January 1, 2004, Special Education Teacher Aides who are required by the District to meet the “highly qualified” state and federal requirements of HR1 and SB1, shall be reclassified from a range 11 to a range 12 on the Classified Salary Schedule. Reclassification of the position shall occur upon submission by the employee of his/her credentials to Human Resources, and upon review, verification, and approval of the credentials by Human Resources. Once approval is given, the reclassification of the position shall be made effective in the next available payroll.
Employees who are required by the District to meet the “highly qualified” state and federal requirements of HR1 and SB1, are eligible to take the PRAXIS ParaPro Assessment two (2) times at District expense.
In the event an employee who is required by the District to meet the “highly qualified” state and federal requirements of HR1 and SB1, does not meet the requirements, the District will assist the employee in securing a transfer to another District position by notifying administrators who have openings of the desire of the employee to transfer. The decision to select or not select the employee will be at the sole discretion of the administrator.
ARTICLE 12
TRANSFER/PROMOTIONS
TRANSFER/PROMOTION PROCESS
12.1.1	When a new or existing classified position scheduled to work more than 4.2 hours per day becomes vacant, Human Resources will first open the position to Washoe County School District employees only, provided the position has not been filled with a directed transfer. If the District fills a position with a directed transfer, the District will notify the Association prior to the directed transfer. Positions listed in 1.3, 4, and 5, of the Washoe County School District Human Resources office Classified Transfer/ Promotion Procedure will be filled as outlined in that procedure.
12.1.1.1	Employees being promoted will be placed at the range and step that permits an increase of no less than 4%.
12.1.1.2	Employees transferring to a position within the same salary range will remain at their same range and step.
12.1.1.3	Employees transferring to a position in a lower salary range will be placed on the step closest to their currently hourly rate of pay, not to exceed the maximum step of the new range.
31
12.1.1.4	An employee transferring to a position in a different classification, or being promoted, will be placed in a six (6) month probationary period.
12.1.1.5	In consultation with the supervisor, employees may be allowed a reasonable amount of time off with pay for District interviews.
12.2 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT TRANSFER
12.2.1	In the case of a classified e mployee a pproved for a reasonable accommodation under the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), the District may transfer the classified employee into a new or existing position without opening the position to current classified employees. The District will consult with the Association prior to transferring a classified employee under this Section.
ARTICLE 13
TRANSPORTATION ROUTE SELECTION
13.1	ROUTE SELECTION
13.1.1	The purpose of this Article is to provide an equitable approach for assigning “open” routes to bus drivers.
13.1.2	All bids will be awarded by seniority. If a route is bid on and accepted, the driver will be required to remain on the route for at least sixty (60) working days. If the Department’s administration determines that the driver cannot perform satisfactorily on the route, s/he will be placed on another route until s/he can successfully bid an “open” route. No driver will be allowed to bid on routes while on suspension.
13.1.3	During the school year, routes will be posted three (3) school days before being assigned. No “open” routes will be put up for bid after March 15th of each school year, except for year-round routes and summer work.
13.1.3.1	Drivers wishing to retain their route from one school year to the next must sign up for their route during the July sign-up period.
13.1.4	Drivers may bid on multiple routes by indicating their order of preference. Drivers must include their seniority date on the bid slip. No changes will be made to assignments after the bidding is closed.
13.1.5	If the schedule for a school changes (e.g. from traditional to year round), the driver has the option of retaining the route or bidding on another “open” route.
13.1.6	If a route is dissolved, the driver will be assigned a route until an “open” route becomes available for bid. If a route is reduced in the assigned daily time by more than one-half (1/2) hour a day, the driver may bid on an “open” route even if the 60 working day requirement has not been met. Assigned daily hours for any route are approximate and are subject to change at any time. Bidding on to or off of “standby” positions is not subject to the 60 working day rule.
13.1.7	Drivers on an approved leave will have their routes held for a maximum of three (3) months. Upon approval, the leave may be extended and the route held for the driver for an additional three (3) months.
32
13.2
14.1
13.1.8	Drivers who are off work because of an on the job injury will have their routes held for one (1) year. Drivers may not return to the route until a “natural break” (e.g. after summer, winter, or spring breaks) occurs.
13.1.9	All summer work for the Transportation Department will be put up for bid. B us washing will be a summer and track break activity and will be put up for bid for all drivers and pupil transportation assistants.
13.1.10	It is understood that the Department’s administration may, for reasonable cause, withhold a route from bid, or not award a bid based on seniority due to concerns with employee performance. If a route is withheld and a driver requests to be informed of the reasons, the driver will be notified of the reasons in writing.
MINIMUM ROUTE TIME
13.2.	1 Bus Drivers and Bus Drivers - Special Education who are regularly scheduled to work-five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours per day or more will receive at least five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours of pay for each regularly scheduled day the Driver actually works. A driver will not receive this minimum five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours of pay on days his/her regularly scheduled route is less than five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours.
13.2.	2 To qualify for this benefit a Driver must make every reasonable effort to work at least five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours by bidding on available routes and accepting routes assigned by the Transportation Department. Employees may be required to clean buses and perform other related duties in order to receive at least five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours of work. If a Driver does not make a reasonable effort to work at least five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours as delineated above, the Driver will not be eligible for this benefit on that day.	-
13.2.	3 Where the provisions of Section 11.7 Report To Work Pay apply, Section 13.2 will be waived.
ARTICLE 14
REDUCTION IN FORCE
SENIORITY DATES AND QUALIFICATIONS
14.1.1	Employees who work 4.2 hours per day or less or twenty one (21) hours per week or less are not covered by this article.
Teacher Aides are excluded from this article.
This article shall only apply to Teacher Assistants when a system-wide reduction in Teacher Assistants occurs.
14.1.2	The Association will be informed in writing of any pending reduction in force prior to the official notification of employees affected thereby, at the earliest date release of said information is authorized. The District will provide the Association with a written seniority list of the affected classification/department. The Association and the
33
District shall meet to discuss the reasons for the reduction in force, the number and types of positions affected, and the approximate date the reductions will take place. The Association has five (5) days to make its views and recommendations known (in writing) to the Classified Human Resources Coordinator, concerning the implementation of such reduction in force. However, the District may proceed with the reduction in force at anytime after meeting with the Association.
14.1.3	In the event the District determines that the classified employee staff must be reduced, the seniority date with Washoe County School District shall determine the order in which members of the two classified bargaining units shall be reduced, provided however, that no employee shall be replaced by another employee not qualified (in the District’s opinion) for such classification nor shall one employee replace another if the latter employee is at a higher salary range. An employee will first b ump within his/her current classification, if possible, and then within his/her occupational series, if possible. If this is not possible, an employee in one occupational series may bump an employee in another occupational series if the employee is qualified (in the District’s opinion) and has more WCSD experience in the specific p osition t han t he e mployee b eing b umped. O ccupational s eries a re defined in Appendix B.
14.1.4	Seniority or "seniority date” shall mean the most recent date of employment with the Washoe County School District.
14.1.5	In the event two (2) or more employees have the same seniority date, then seniority shall be determined by a lottery in which employees having the same seniority date shall draw lots in accordance with a procedure agreed upon by the Association and the District.
14.1.6	Any resignation or termination of employment shall constitute a "break" in seniority. For the purpose of staff reduction, seniority date shall mean the first working day subsequent to the most recent break in service, if any.
14.1.7	All other conditions being equal, the seniority date shall prevail as the determining factor for purposes of a reduction in force and first right to rehire. An employee's seniority date for reduction in force and bumping purposes shall encompass all periods of service from the employee's last continuous employment date. Periods of separation may not be bridged to extend such service unless the separation is a result of a reduction in force in which bridging will be authorized if the employee is re-employed in his/her occupational series within the period of his/her reduction in force eligibility.
14.1.8	Leaves of absence shall not change the employee's seniority date.
14.1.9	The procedure for reducing positions shall be as follows:
14.1.9.1	The employee occupying the position being reduced shall bump the employee with the least District seniority. For example, if a school secretary position were being eliminated, the employee in this position would fill the school secretary position occupied by the employee with the least District seniority.
34
14.1.9.2	If a position in a specific office of a department were being eliminated and there were more than one position in the same classification in the office, the employee in the office with the least District seniority shall bump the employee with the least seniority in the District.
14.1.9.3	If an employee’s position were being reduced, the employee shall bump the employee with the least District seniority who works the same or closest (based on a comparison of the annual salary and medical premiums of the employee and the annual salary and medical insurance premiums if s/he were to bump into another position) to the same number of hours per day and months per year. This shall be determined based on comparing the annual salary of the employee with what the annual salary of the employee will be if s/he were to bump another employee. This process would continue until the least senior employee’s position is reduced.
14.1.10	When ever it is necessary for the District to implement a reduction in force due to lack of work or lack of funds pursuant to NRS 288.150, existing vacancies will be utilized to the maximum extent possible to place employees in continuing positions who otherwise would be terminated from the District. All layoffs be carried out in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The following options will be considered prior to implementing a reduction in force:
14.1.10.1	Transferring employees whose positions are being eliminated into positions that are available at the time of the reduction based on retirements, resignations, leaves of absences, and new positions. The decision to utilize these options will be at the discretion of the District.
14.1.11	All employees terminated by a reduction in force, if eligible, shall be placed on a Reemployment Priority List for all positions in their occupational series for which they are qualified and available and which positions are not a higher level than previously held. All such employees must be given preference for rehiring in permanent positions for which they are qualified. Employees on the Re-employment Priority List will be notified of openings in order of highest District seniority. Names shall remain on the Re-employment Priority List for eighteen (18) months. In order for an employee’s name to remain on the list, s/he must notify the District of his/her interest in remaining on the list, in writing, every six (6) months. However, refusal of a comparable position may result in removal from the Re-employment Priority List.
14.1.12	Employees who are re-hired with the District from the Re-employment Priority List will retain the vacation accrual rates and the amount of accrued sick leave they had when they were reduced.
14.1.13	New employees filling positions with any temporary funding source, such as one-year-only (or any other specified period of time) positions, grant funded positions, bond funded positions, will not be eligible for this article until after five (5) years of service with the District in the position. District employees transferring into such positions will be eligible for this article.
35
ARTICLE 15
DUES DEDUCTION
15.1	AUTHORIZATIONS - PROCEDURES
15.1.1	Upon appropriate written authorization from the employee, the District shall make biweekly Association dues deductions from the salary of the employee and make appropriate remittance to the Association.
15.1.2	The Association will provide the District with the enrollment forms and the amount to be withheld for employees who have voluntarily authorized the District to deduct Association dues. Changes in the amount to be withheld must be submitted in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the date the change is to be effective. (2003)
15.1.3	Any employee desiring to have the District discontinue deductions he/she has previously authorized must notify the Association in accordance with the Association’s Constitution Bylaws during July for that school year’s dues. The Association will provide the District with the list of employees who have requested to have their dues deductions discontinued by August 15th, and the District will discontinue the dues deductions by the first full pay period in September. (2003)
15.1.4	Upon termination of an employee, the current month's dues will be deducted from the final check.
15.1.5	The District agrees not to honor any check off authorizations o r d ues d eduction authorizations executed by any employee in the bargaining unit in favor of any other labor organization representing employees for purposes of negotiations for wages, hours and working conditions, and other fringe benefits for its members.
15.1.6	The employee's earnings must be sufficient after other required deductions are made to cover the amount of the Association dues. In the case of an employee who is in non-pay status during part of the pay period and whose wages are not sufficient to cover the full withholding, no Association dues deductions shall be made. In this connection, all other required deductions have priority over Association dues.
15.2 INDEMNITY
15.2.	1 The Association agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold the District harmless against any and all claims or suits that may arise out of or by reasons of action taken by the District in reliance upon any authorization cards submitted by the Association to the District.
15.2.	2 The Association agrees to refund to the District any excess amounts paid to it in error on account of the payroll deduction provision upon presentation of proper evidence of error or mistake.
36
ARTICLE 16
16.1
16.2
16.3
16.4
17.1
17.2
17.3
18.1
18.2
SAFETY
The District agrees to make reasonable efforts to continue providing safety equipment which, in the opinion of the District, is necessary to protect employees from injury in accordance with the practice now prevailing in the District.
The District further agrees to continue to maintain safe and healthful working conditions in accordance with applicable Nevada Revised Statutes and Federal Laws.
Except for employees that have been properly trained, employees shall not be required to search rooms, lockers, or other areas of a school facility for possible hazardous material.
When a supervisor must meet with an employee to discuss a serious safety issue, the employee is required to immediately meet and cooperate with the supervisor, even if an Association Representative is not available.
ARTICLE 17
PERIODS FOR MEALS AND REST
An employee regularly scheduled to work seven (7) continuous hours or more shall be provided an uninterrupted non-paid meal period of at least one-half (1/2) hour. The meal period should, in so far as practicable, be in the middle of the scheduled work period. Employees who currently work without an uninterrupted non-paid meal period shall continue to do so for the balance of the 199192 school year unless a change is approved by the appropriate administrator. With the concurrence of the supervisor, an employee may elect to forego his/her meal period.
An employee regularly scheduled to work seven (7) continuous hours or more shall be provided two (2) uninterrupted paid rest periods of at least ten (10) minutes. An employee regularly scheduled to work four (4), five (5), or six (6) continuous hours shall be provided one (1) uninterrupted paid rest period of at least fifteen (15) minutes. With the approval of the appropriate administrator, an employee may take informal rest periods in lieu of the formal uninterrupted rest period(s).
The time lunch and rest periods are scheduled will be determined by the supervisor, after consultation with the employee.
ARTICLE 18
USE OF FACILITIES
The Association shall have the right to use school mailboxes, interschool mail service, school email, and Association bulletin boards for organizational material, provided that such material is clearly identified as Association material and the Association accepts the responsibility for such material.
The Association shall be allowed the use of school buildings for Association meetings so long as arrangements have been made with the principal of the building. Such meetings shall not conflict with any regular or specific activities, and such use shall not involve additional or extra custodial services and/or other unusual expense to the District.
37
ARTICLE 19
WORK SCHEDULE CHANGES
19.1	In the event the work schedule of an employee must be changed for a regular or extended period of time (more than one (1) bi-weekly pay period), the administrative supervisor shall provide the employee with a minimum of ten (10) days advance notice. If ten (10) days advance notice is not possible, in order to provide coverage, the administrative supervisor shall seek qualified volunteers from employees in the department.
If a qualified employee in the department does not volunteer to work the administrative supervisor shall, based on the seniority of qualified (in the judgment of the administrative supervisor) employees, and beginning with the least senior employee, direct an employee in the department to provide needed coverage until the ten (10) days advance notice can be accomplished.
If there are no qualified employees or volunteers available to provide coverage prior to the ten (10) days notice then the administrative supervisor shall direct the affected employee’s work schedule be change immediately.
Administrative supervisors shall make a good-faith effort to consider the hardship on an employee in the event less than ten (10) days advance notice is not possible.
ARTICLE 20
ADMINISTRATION OF AGREEMENT
20.1	Those schools with a plan for shared decision making, which has been approved by the Washoe County School District Board of Trustees as per Administrative Regulation 6000, may apply for variance of the negotiated agreement. The request for variance must be submitted and approved by both the Superintendent and the NCSEA Board of Directors. Requests for variances must be submitted by May 1 preceding the school year in which the requested variance will take effect. All requests for variance must state the specific article of the agreement and explain what the school is considering that might violate this provision of the agreement. The request must also state the period of time for which the variance is needed. A variance may be granted for no more than one (1) year at a time. Schools wishing to renew the variance must reapply by May 1.
In order for a school to be considered for a variance, there must be certification that a majority of the school’s classified staff has approved the variance request. Such certification must be gathered through a secret ballot process conducted jointly by the Association building representatives and school administration.
This Article will not circumvent the grievance/complaint procedure.
ARTICLE 21
EMPLOYEE PROTECTION
21.1	The School Trustees shall provide for the legal defense of an employee in accordance with NRS 391.271.
38
21.2	Employees shall immediately report cases of assault either suffered by them or for which they may be responsible and which occurred in connection with their employment.
21.3	An employee, while acting within the course of his/her duties as such, may use such force as is reasonable and necessary to protect himself/herself or others or property; or to quell a disturbance threatening physical injury; or to obtain possession of weapons or other dangerous objects upon the person of or within the control of the pupil.
ARTICLE 22
GENERAL SAVINGS CLAUSE
22.1	In the event that any provisions of the Agreement, or any application thereof, is held contrary to law by a court of competent jurisdiction and said decisions become final, then such provision or application will not be deemed valid and subsistent except to the extent permitted by law. However, all other provisions or applications will continue in full force and effect. The parties will meet not later than twenty (20) days after any such holding becomes final for the purpose of re-negotiating or considering the provision(s) affected.
ARTICLE 23
TERM OF AGREEMENT
-	23.1 LENGTH OF AGREEMENT
23.1.1 This Agreement shall be effective as of the first day of July, 2003, and shall remain in effect until the 30th day of June, 2006, and shall continue from year to year thereafter unless either of the signatories hereto shall give written notice to the other as required by Nevada Revised Statutes, of a desire to change wages, hours and conditions of employment hereof.
23.2 NEGOTIABILITY
23.2.1 The parties also agree that any subjects where negotiability may be challenged that are ultimately determined to be mandatory topics for negotiation, may be reopened after either party has exhausted all avenues of judicial review, provided however, *	that written notification of intent to reopen is given prior to February 15 for any
proposed changes to be effective on July 1.
_	23.3 WAGE CHANGES
23.3.1 SALARIES
2.5% effective July 1,2003. (2003)
2.0% effective July 1,2004. (2003)
39
Employees of record as of the date the parties ratify the Agreement will be eligible for retroactive pay to the beginning of the 2003-04 Agreement. (2003)
Upon receipt of the audited 2003-04 fiscal year financial statements, the parties may reopen negotiations on salary and insurance increases only, limited only to the amount in excess of $6 million in unreserved and undesignated ending fund balance in the General Fund. (2003)
2005-06: S alary a nd i nsurance b enefits w ill b e o pen a nd two (2) i terns of each parties choice. (2003)
23.4 RATIFICATION
Ratified by the:
Washoe County School District (WCSD) Board of Trustees on:
DATE: May 19, 2004
Ratified by the:
Nevada Classified School Employees Association (NCSEA) Washoe Chapter #2 on:
DATE: May 19, 2004
On Behalf of the WCSD:
i om aiauss, wassmeo oooromaior Human Resources
On Behalf of the-NQSEA:
(\ )
Cindy Quaglia, President ' NCSEA
I - \9-c.g)
Date
40
APPENDIX A
APPENDIX A
SUPERVISORY BARGAINING UNIT1
Accounts Payable Supervisor
Carpenter Shop Supervisor
Computer Operator II
Computer Technology Training Supervisor
Electrician II
Environmental Assessment Technician II
Equipment Operator II, III
Fleet Maintenance Coordinator
Groundskeeper II
Groundskeeper Supervisor
HVAC Shop Supervisor
Housekeeping Field Supervisor
Housekeeping Training Supervisor
Lead Custodian I
Lead Custodian II
Lead Electronic Technician
Lead Nutrition Service Worker
Mail Clerk II
Mechanic II
Mentor Program Coordinator
Nutrition Services Appliance Technician II
Nutrition Services Appliance Technician Supervisor
Nutrition Services Assistant Manager II
Nutrition Services Assistant Supervisor
Nutrition Services Banquet Manager
Nutrition Services Center Kitchen Manager
Nutrition Services Center Production Facilities Supervisor
Nutrition Services Field Supervisor
Nutrition Services Manager I
Nutrition Services Manager II
Nutrition Services Supervisor
Offset Machine Operator II
Operations/Transportation Field Supervisor
Painter II
Paint Shop Supervisor
Plumber II
Preventive Maintenance & Assessment Supervisor
Print Shop Supervisor
Remodel Supervisor
Risk Management Technician
Site Facilities Coordinator I
Site Facilities Coordinator II
Site Facilities Coordinator III
Systems Analyst
Transportation Safety Supervisor
Transportation Site Supervisor
Transportation Training Supervisor
Upholsterer
Warehouse Supervisor
Warehouse Worker/Driver II
Certain conditions/restrictions apply to ail classes affecting whether or not a particular class or position is in a bargaining unit and whether a particular class or position is covered by all Articles of this Agreement. See Article 4.
Appendix A1
APPENDIX A
NON-SUPERVISORY BARGAINING UNIT1
Account Clerk I
Account Clerk II
Account Clerk Trainee
Accountability Technician
Account Technician
Administrative Investigator
Administrative Secretary I
Administrative Secretary II
Administrative Secretary III
Assistant Carpenter
Assistant Mechanic
Assistant Upholsterer
Attendance Officer
Audio Visual Media Technician
Audio Visual Technician
Audit Clerk
Bindery Machine Operator
Bond Program Controller
Building Inspector
Bus Driver
Bus Driver - Instructor/Evaluator
Bus Driver - Special Education
Buyer I
Buyer II
Campus Supervisor
Carpenter
Case Manager
Central Services Liaison
Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant-SpEd
Clerk
Clinical Aide
Clinical Assistant
COBOL/SQL Developer
Communications & Records Manager
Computer Assistant
Computer Operator I
Computer Operator Testing/Evaluation
Computer Support Specialist
Computer Technology Trainer
Custodian
Data Analyst
Data Analyst-Webregistration
Data Coordinator
Delivery/Receiver Worker
Demographic/GIS Technician
Desktop Support Technician
Desktop Support Technican I, II, III
Dining Room Chef/Manager
Dispatch Technician I, II
Dispatch Technician Assistant
Districtwide Grounds Maintainer
Drafting Technician
Early Childhood Specialist (COW)
Electrician I
Electronic Systems Technician
Electronic Technician, Audio-Visual
Electronic Technician, Photocopiers
Electronic Technician, Video Systems
Electronic Technician, Word Processors/Typewriters
Environmental Assessment Technician I
Equipment Operator I, II
Equipment Services Technician
Family Advocate I, II
Fuel Island Attendant
Garage Service Attendant
Groundskeeper I
Home Educator Advocate/Title l/Even Start
Homeless Liaison - Title I
HVAC Systems Control Technician
Internet Services Technician
Irrigation Systems Maintainer
Job Developer/Coach-Special Education
Library Assistant I
Library Assistant II
Library Associate I
Library Associate II
Locksmith
Mail Clerk I
Maintenance Technician I, II
Mechanic I
Mechanical Technician
Musical Instrument Technician
Network Analyst
Network Support Technician
Nutrition Service Appliance Technician I
Nutrition Service Computer Technician
Nutrition Service Computer Technology Trainer
Nutrition Service Dishwasher
Nutrition Service Elementary Manager
Nutrition Service Kitchen Manager
Nutrition Service Inventory Control Technician
Nutrition Service Worker I
Nutrition Service Worker Assistant
Offset Machine Operator I
Offset Machine Operator Trainee
Painter I
Parent Involvement Facilitator - Title I
Plumber I
Preventive Maintenance Technician
Program Facilitator
Program Services Technician I
Program Services Technician II
Property Control Technician
Pupil Transportation Assistant
1 Certain conditions/restrictions apply to all classes affecting whether or not a particular class or position is in a bargaining unit and whether a particular class or position is covered by all Articles of this Agreement. See Article 4.
Appendix A2
APPENDIX A
1 NON-SUPERVISORY BARGAINING UNIT
Records & Documents Technician
Regulated Systems Specialist
Remodel Shop Technician
Roofing Technician
School Bookkeeper
School Police Dispatch Technician I
School Registrar
School Secretary
Secretary I, II
Secretary II - Middle School
Senior Clerk
Senior Film Library Clerk
Senior School Secretary
Senior School Secretary-Magnet HS
Site Coordinator (21st Century)
Small Engine Mechanic
Software Support Specialist
Specialized Health Care Technician
Special Program Coordinator
Special Project Coordinator
Special Project Coordinator - STOP
Speech Pathologist Technician
Storekeeper I, II
Structured Cabling Specialist
Student Accounting Assistant - Student Attendance CRT
Student Records Secretary
Switchboard Operator/Receptionist
Systems Analyst/Data Base Administrator
Systems Applications Programmer
Teacher Aide
Teacher Aide/Hearing Impaired
Teacher Aide/Special Education
Teacher Assistant
Teacher Assistant-SMPBC
Telecommunications Support Specialist
Translation Specialist/ESL
Transportation Instructor/Evaluator
Tutorial Aide-Title IX
Typesetter/Graphic Artist
Visual Basic/SQL Developer
Warehouse Worker
Warehouse Worker/Driver I
Warehouse Worker/Mail Clerk
Welder
Wellness Coordinator
1 Certain conditions/restrictions apply to all classes affecting whether or not a particular class or position is in a bargaining unit and whether a particular class or position is covered by all Articles of this Agreement. See Article 4.
Appendix A3

APPENDIX B

APPENDIX B
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
Series Group	Classification	Pay Range
Accounting	Account Technician	22
Accountability Technician	20
Account Clerk II	20
Account Clerk I	19
Audit Clerk	19
Account Clerk Trainee	15
Audio Visual-Film	Audio Visual Media Technician	30
Library
Building/Boiler	Regulated Systems Specialist	28
Maintenance	HVAC Shop Supervisor	28
Preventive Maintenance & Assessment Supervisor	27
Building Inspector	26
HVAC Systems Control Technician	26
Mechanical Technician	26
Environmental Assessment Technician II	25
Roofing Technician	24
Environmental Assessment Technician I	22
Maintenance Technician II	22
Preventive Maintenance Technician	21
Maintenance Technician I	20
Carpentry	Carpenter Shop Supervisor	28
Carpenter	25
Assistant Carpenter	19
Clerical-Secretarial	Administrative Secretary III	23
Student Accounting Assistant - Student Attendance CRT22
Administrative Secretary II	21
Administrative Secretary I	20
School Bookkeeper	20
School Registrar	20
Secretary II	18
Student Records Secretary	18
Secretary I	17
Switchboard Operator/Receptionist	17
Senior Clerk	16
Senior Film Library Clerk	16
Clerk	14
Custodial	Housekeeping Field Supervisor	25
Site Facilities Coordinator III	22
Lead Custodian II	21
Site Facilities Coordinator II	21
Lead Custodian I	20
Site Facilities Coordinator I	20
Custodian	15
Appendix B1
APPENDIX B
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
Series Group	Classification	Pay Range
Information Systems	COBOL/SQL Developer	35 Visual Basic/SQL Developer	35 Internet Services Technician	33 Systems Analyst	33 Network Analyst-LAN	33 Network Analyst-WAN	33 Systems Applications Programmer	30 Desktop Support Technician III	28 Structured Cabling Specialist	28 Desktop Support Technician II	26 Data Analyst	26 Computer Support Specialist	24 Desktop Support Technician 1	24 Computer Technology Trainer	24 Software Support Specialist	24 Telecommunications Support Specialist	24 Computer Operator: Testing/Evaluation	22 Desktop Support Technician	22 Computer Operator II	21 Computer Operator I	19
Electronic	Equipment Shop Supervisor	29 Electrician II	26 Electronic Systems Technician	26 Lead Electronic Technician	26 Nutrition Services Computer Technician	26 Electronic Technician-Audio Visual	25 Electronic Technician-Photocopiers	25 Electronic Technician-Video Systems	25 Electronic Technician-Word Processors/Typewriters	25 Musical Instrument Technician	25 Electrician I	22 Equipment Service Technician	18
Groundskeeping	Groundskeeper Supervisor	28 Equipment Operator III	24 Equipment Operator II	20 Welder	20 Equipment Operator I	19 Groundskeeper II	19 Irrigation Systems Maintainer	19 Small Engine Mechanic	19 Groundskeeper I	18
Mechanical	Fleet Maintenance Coordinator	30 Mechanic II	27 Mechanic I	25 Assistant Mechanic	20 Garage Service Attendant	17 Fuel Island Attendant	15 Appendix	B2
APPENDIX B
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
Series Group	Classification	Pay Range
Nutrition Services	NS Center Production Facilities Supervisor	28
	Nutrition Services Supervisor	25
	Nutrition Services Inventory Control Technician	24
	Nutrition Services Assistant Supervisor	21
	Nutrition Services Center Kitchen Manager	19
	Nutrition Services Field Supervisor	19
	Nutrition Services Banquet Manager	18
	Nutrition Services Manager II	18
	Nutrition Services Manager 1	16
	Dining Room Chef/Manager	14
	Lead Nutrition Services Worker	14
	Nutrition Services Assistant Manager II	14
	Nutrition Services Computer Technology Trainer	13
	Nutrition Services Elementary Manager	13
	Nutrition Services Dishwasher	12
	Nutrition Services Worker 1	12
Painting	Painter II	25
	Painter 1	21
Plumbing	Plumber II	26
	Plumber 1	22
Printing	Print Shop Supervisor	29
	Offset Machine Operator II	21
	Typesetter/Graphic Artist	20
	Offset Machine Operator 1	18
	Offset Machine Operator Trainee	15
	Bindery Machine Operator	13
School Secretaries	Senior School Secretary	22
	Senior School Secretary - Magnet HS	21
	School Secretary	21
Storekeeping	Storekeeper II	20
	Storekeeper 1	18
Transportation-	Bus Driver/lnstructor-Evaluator	BD/IE
Bus Drivers	Bus Driver/Special Education	BD/SE
	Bus Driver	BD
Transportation	Transportation Site Supervisor	26
	Transportation Safety Coordinator	23
	Transportation Training Supervisor	23
	Dispatch Technician II	21
	Dispatch Technician 1	20
	Transportation Instructor/Evaluator	20
	Dispatch Technician Assistant	18
	Pupil Transportation Assistant	10
Appendix B3
APPENDIX B
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
Pay Range
Series Group
Classification
Warehouse	Warehouse Supervisor	24
	Warehouse Worker/Driver II	20
	Warehouse Worker/Driver 1	18
	Warehouse Worker/Mail Clerk	16
	Delivery/Receiver Worker	11
Appendix B4
APPENDIX B
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
Series Group	Classification	Pay Range
Single Classifications	Systems Analyst/Data Base Administrator	33
	Audio Visual Technician	30
	Wellness Coordinator	31
	Drafting Technician	28
	Buyer II	25
	Nutrition Service Appliance Technician II	25
	Special Program Coordinator	25
	Upholsterer	25
	Drafting Technician	24
	Administrative Investigator	23
	Central Services Liaison	23
	Special Projects Coordinator-STOP	23
	Buyer 1	22
	Nutrition Service Appliance Technician 1	22
	Program Services Technician II	22
	Property Control Technician	22
	Specialized Health Care Technician	22
	Case Manager	21
	Library Associate II	21
	Locksmith	21
	Mentor Program Coordinator	21
	Records & Documents Technician	21
	Special Projects Coordinator	21
	Program Services Technician 1	20
	School Police Dispatch Technician 1	20
	Assistant Upholsterer	19
	Attendance Officer	19
	Library Associate 1	19
	Translation Specialist/ESL	19
	Library Assistant II	18
	Mail Clerk II	18
	Campus Supervisor	17
	Family Advocate 1	17
	Mail Clerk 1	17
	Parent Involvement Facilitator-Title 1	17
	Library Assistant 1	16
	Clinical Aide	15
	Teacher Aide/Hearing Impaired	15
	Teacher Aide/Special Education	11
	Pupil Transportation Assistant	10
	Teacher Aide	10
Appendix B5
APPENDIX B
Series Group
Single Classifications
Classification
Special Assistant-SMPBC
Teacher Assistant Computer Assistant Clinical Assistant
Pay Range
Appendix B6
APPENDIX C
*4>
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE "A" 2004-2005 EMPLOYER PAID RETIREMENT
1. Full Schedule Classes
20 Accountability Technician
19	Account Clerk I
20	Account Clerk II
15	Account Clerk Trainee
22	Account Technician
25	Accounts Payable Supervisor
20	Administrative Secretary I . 21 Administrative Secretary II
23	Administrative Secretary III
19	Assistant Carpenter
20	Assistant Mechanic
22	Assistant Site Coordinator (21st)
19 Assistant Upholsterer
-	19 Attendance Officer
30 Audio-Visual Media Technician
21 Audio-Visual Technician (Read First)
19 Audit Clerk
13 Bindery Machine Operator
28 Bond Program Controller (IT)
26 Building Inspector
22 Buyer I
25 Buyer II
17 Campus Supervisor
25 Carpenter
28 Carpenter Shop Supervisor
21 Case Manager (Family Focus)
23 Central Services Liaison
22 Cert Occup Therapy Assst/SpEd
14	Clerk
15	Clinical Aide
35 COBOL/SQL Developer
22 Communications & Records Manager
19 Computer Operator I
21	Computer Operator II
22	Comp Oper Testing/Evaluation
24	Computer Support Specialist
24	Computer Technology Trainer
32	Comp Tech Training Supervisor
15	Custodian
16	Custodian/Grounds Worker
26 Data Analyst
26 Data Analyst-Web Registration
24 Data Coordinator
11 Delivery/Receiver Worker
26	Demographer/GIS Technician
22	Desktop Support Technician
24	Desktop Support Technician I
26	Desktop Support Technician II
28	Desktop Support Technician III
14	Dining Room Chef/Manager
20	Dispatch Technician I
21	Dispatch Technician II
18 Dispatch Technician Assistant
“	18 Districtwide Grounds Maintainer
28 Drafting Technician
21 Early Childhood Specialist (COW)
22 Electrician I
26 Electrician II
26 Electronic Systems Technician
25 Electronic Technician-Audio Visual
25 Elec Technician-Photocopiers
25 Elec Tech-Video Systems
25 Elec Tech Word Processor/Typewriter
22 Environmental Assessment Tech I
25 Environmental Assessment Tech II
19	Equipment Operator I
20	Equipment Operator II
24	Equipment Operator III
07/04
18 Equipment Service Technician
29 Equipment Shop Supervisor
17 Family Advocate I
21 Family Advocate II
30 Fleet Maintenance Coordinator
15	Fuel Island Attendant
17	Garage Service Attendant
18	Groundskeeper I
19	Groundskeeper II
28 Groundskeeper Supervisor
18 Home Educator Advocate-Title I
23 Homeless Liaison-Title I
25 Housekeeping Field Supervisor
24 Housekeeping Training Supervisor
28 HVAC Shop Supervisor
26 HVAC Systems Control Technician
33 Internet Services Technician
19	Irrigation Systems Maintainer
19	Job Developer/Coach
20	Lead Custodian I
21	Lead Custodian II
26 Lead Electronic Technician
14 Lead Nutrition Service Worker
27 Legal Division Investigator
16	Library Assistant I
18	Library Assistant II
19	Library Associate I
21 Library Associate II
21 Locksmith
17	Mail Clerk I
18	Mail Clerk II
20 Maintenance Technician I
22 Maintenance Technician II
25 Mechanic I
27 Mechanic II
26 Mechanical Technician
21 Mentor Program Coordinator
25 Musical Instrument Technician
33 Network Analyst
33 Network Support Technician
22 NS Appliance Technician I
25 NS Appliance Technician II
28 NS Appliance Tech Supervisor
14 NS Assistant Manager II
21 NS Assistant Supervisor
18	NS Banquet Manager
19	NS Center Kitchen Manager
26 NS Computer Technician
13 NS Computer Technology Trainer
12	NS Dishwasher
13	NS Elem Manager
19	NS Field Supervisor
24 NS Inventory Control Technician
16 NS Manager I
18 NS Manager II
28 NS Prod Facilities Supervisor
25 NS Supervisor
12 NS Worker I
10 NS Worker Assistant
18 Offset Machine Operator I
21 Offset Machine Operator II
15 Offset Machine Operator Trainee
26 Oper/Transp Field Supervisor
21 Painter I
25 Painter II
28 Paint Shop Supervisor
17 Parent Involvement Facilitator-Title I
22 Plumber I
Effective July 1, 2004
26	Plumber II
27	Preventive Main & Assess Supervisor
21 Preventive Maintenance Technician
29 Print Shop Supervisor
22 Program Facilitator
20 Program Services Technician I
22 Program Services Technician II
22 Property Control Technician
10 Pupil Transportation Assistant
21 Records & Documents Technician
33 Regulated Systems Specialist
22 Remodel Shop Technician
28 Remodel Supervisor
24 Roofing Technician
20 School Bookkeeper
20 School Police Dispatch Tech I
20	School Registrar
21	School Secretary
17	Secretary I
18	Secretary II
19	Secretary II — Middle School
16	Senior Clerk
16	Senior Film Library Clerk
33 Senior Network Architect
22 Senior School Secretary
21 Senior School Secretay-Magnet HS
23 Site Coordinator (21st Century)
20	Site Facilities Coordinator I
21	Site Facilities Coordinator II
22	Site Facilities Coordinator III
19 Small Engine Mechanic
24 Software Support Specialist
22 Specialized Health Care Technician
25 Special Program Coordinator
21 Special Projects Coordinator
23 Special Projects Coordinator-STOP
25 Speech Pathologist Technician
18 Storekeeper I
20 Storekeeper II
28 Structured Cabling Specialist
22 Student Accounting Assistant -Student Attendance CRT
18 Student Records Secretary
17 Switchboard Operator/Receptionist
33 Systems Analyst
33 Sys Analyst/Data Base Administrator
30 Systems Applications Programmer
10	Teacher Aide
11	Teacher Aide (Highly Qualified)
11	Teacher Aide/Special Education
12	Teacher Aide/SpEd (HighlyQualified)
15	Teacher Aide/Hearing Impaired
24 Telecommunications Supp Specialist
19	Translation Specialist
20	Transportation Instructor/Evaluator
23 Transportation Safety Supervisor
26 Transportation Site Supervisor
23 Transportation Training Supervisor
20 Typesetter/Graphic Artist
25 Upholsterer
35 Visual Basic/SQL Developer
24 Warehouse Supervisor
15 Warehouse Worker
18 Warehouse Worker/Driver I
20 Warehouse Worker/Driver II
16 Warehouse Worker/Mail Clerk
20 Welder
31 Wellness Coordinator
c:docs.clsscha.mj
Appendix Cl
APPENDIX C
II. Separate Schedule Classes
Special Assistant-Severely Mentally & Physically Challenged Teacher Assistant Computer Assistant Clinical Assistant		See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes
	Bus Driver Bus Driver/lnstructor-Evaluator Bus Driver/Special Education	
III.	Non-Scheduled Classes	
Classification	Hourly	Rate
Student Worker	5.50
Work Study Student	5.32
SCHEDULE NOTES
I.	Full Schedule Classes
Employees in these classifications will have, in addition to their annual wages, 20.25% of the annual wages paid by the Washoe County School District to the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) for retirement benefits. Other benefits are described in the Negotiated Agreement between the Nevada Classified School Employees Association and the District. (2003)
II.	Separate Schedule Classes
Employees in these classifications have the same retirement contributions made as employees in the Full Schedule Classes.
III.	Non-Scheduled Classes
Employees in these classifications with a regular workweek which averages 20 hours or more will have, in addition to their salary, 20.25% of the salary paid by the Washoe County School District to the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) for retirement benefits. (2003)
06/04
Schedule “A’
Appendix C2
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CA
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN		80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CA/07/01	6.73	471.10	1,020.72	12,248.60	538.40	1,166.53	13,998.40
CA/07/02	6.87	480.90	1,041.95	12,503.40	549.60	1,190.80	14,289.60
CA/07/03	7.06	494.20	1,070.77	12,849.20	564.80	1,223.73	14,684.80
CA/07/04	7.25	507.50	1,099.58	13,195.00	580.00	1,256.67	15,080.00
CA/07/05	7.41	518.70	1,123.85	13,486.20	592.80	1,284.40	15,412.80
CA/07/06	7.61	532.70	1,154.18	13,850.20	608.80	1,319.07	15,828.80
CA/07/07	7.82	547.40	1,186.03	14,232.40	625.60	1,355.47	16,265.60
CA/07/08	8.02	561.40	1,216.37	14,596.40	641.60	1,390.13	16,681.60
CA/07/09	8.18	572.60	1,240.63	14,887.60	654.40	1,417.87	17,014.40
CA/07/10	8.36	585.20	1,267.93	15,215.20	668.80	1,449.07	17,388.80
							
CA/08/01	7.06	494.20	1,070.77	12,849.20	564.80	1,223.73	14,684.80
CA/08/02	7.25	507.50	1,099.58	13,195.00	580.00	1,256.67	15,080.00
CA/08/03	7.41	518.70	1,123.85	13,486.20	592.80	1,284.40	15,412.80
CA/08/04	7.61	532.70	1,154.18	13,850.20	608.80	1,319.07	15,828.80
CA/08/05	7.82	547.40	1,186.03	14,232.40	625.60	1,355.47	16,265.60
CA/08/06	8.02	561.40	1,216.37	14,596.40	641.60	1,390.13	16,681.60
CA/08/07	8.18	572.60	1,240.63	14,887.60	654.40	1,417.87	17,014.40
CA/08/08	8.36	585.20	1,267.93	15,215.20	668.80	1,449.07	17,388.80
CA/08/09	8.64	604.80	1,310.40	15,724.80	691.20	1,497.60	17,971.20
CA/08/10	8.85	619.50	1,342.25	16,107.00	708.00	1,534.00	18,408.00
							
CA/09/01	7.41	518.70	1,123.85	13,486.20	592.80	1,284.40	15,412.80
CA/09/02	7.61	532.70	1,154.18	13,850.20	608.80		1219.07	15,828.80
CA/09/03	7.82	547.40	1,186.03	14,232.40	625.60	1,355.47	16,265.60
CA/09/04	8.02	561.40	1,216.37	14,596.40	641.60	_ 1,390.13	16,681.60
CA/09/05	8.18	572.60	1,240.63	14,887.60	654.40	1,417.87	17,014.40
CA/09/06	8.36	585.20	1,267.93	15,215.20	668.80	1,449.07	17,388.80
CA/09/07	8.64	604.80	1,310.40	15,724.80		691.20	1,497.60	17,971.20
CA/09/08	8.85	619.50	1,342.25	16,107.00		708.00	1,534.00	18,408.00
CA/09/09	9.09	636.30	1,378.65	16,543.80	727.20	1,575.60	__1820720
CA/09/10	9.27	648.90	1,405.95		16,871.40		741.60		1,606.80	19,281.60
							
CA/10/01	7.82	547.40	1,186.03	14,232.40	625.60	i 1,355.47	16,265.60
CA/10/02	8.02	561.40	1,216.37	14,596.40	641.60	1,390.13	16,681.60
CA/10/03	8.18	572.60	1,240.63	14,887.60	654.40	1,417.87	17,014.40
CA/10/04	8.36	585.20	1,267.93	15,215.20	668.80	1,449.07	17,388.80
CA/10/05	8.64	_	604.80	1,310.40	15,724.80	!	691.20	1,497.60	17,97120
CA/10/06	8.85	619.50	_1,342.25	16,107.00	708.00	1,534.00	18,408.00
CA/10/07	9.09	636.30	_ 1,378.65	16,543.80	727.20	1,575.60	18,907.20
CA/10/08		9.27	648.90	1,405.95	16,871.40	741.60	1,606.80	19,281.60
CA/10/09	9.52	666.40	1,443.87	17,326.40	761.60	1,650.13	19,801.60
CA/10/10	9.76	683.20	1,480.27	17,763.20	780.80	1,691.73	20,300.80
							
Appendix C3
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING	06/16/2004
SCHEDULE - CA
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CA/11/01	8.18	572.60	1,240.63	14,887.60	654.40	1,417.87	17,014.40
CA/11/02	8.36	585.20	1,267.93	15,215.20	668.80	1,449.07	17,388.80
CA/11/03	8.64	604.80	1,310.40	15,724.80	691.20	1,497.60	17,971.20
CA/11/04	8.85	619.50	1,342.25	16,107.00	708.00	1,534.00	18,408.00
CA/11/05	9.09	636.30	1,378.65	16,543.80	727.20	1,575.60	18,907.20
CA/11/06	9.27	648.90	1,405.95	16,871.40	741.60	1,606.80	19,281.60
CA/11/07	9.52	666.40	1,443.87	17,326.40	761.60	1,650.13	19,801.60
CA/11/08	9.76	683.20	1,480.27	17,763.20	780.80	1,691.73	20,300.80
CA/11/09	10.00	700.00	1,516.67	18,200.00	800.00	1,733.33	20,800.00
CA/11/10	10.23	716.10	1,551.55	18,618.60	818.40	1,773.20	21,278.40
							
CA/12/01	8.64	604.80	1,310.40	15,724.80	691.20	1,497.60	17,971.20
CA/12/02	8.85	619.50	1,342.25	16,107.00	708.00	1,534.00	18,408.00
CA/12/03	9.09	636.30	1,378.65	16,543.80	727.20	1,575.60	18,907.20
CA/12/04	9.27	648.90	1,405.95	16,871.40	741.60	1,606.80	19,281.60
CA/12/05	9.52	666.40	1,443.87	17,326.40	761.60	1,650.13	19,801.60
CA/12/06	9.76	683.20	1,480.27	17,763.20	780.80	1,691.73	20,300.80
CA/12/07	10.00	700.00	1,516.67	18,200.00	800.00	1,733.33	20,800.00
CA/12/08	10.23	716.10	1,551.55	18,618.60	818.40	1,773.20	21,278.40
CA/12/09	10.55	738.50	1,600.08	19,201.00	844.00	1,828.67	21,944.00
CA/12/10	10.73	751.10	1,627.38	19,528.60	858.40	1,859.87	22,318.40
							
CA/13/01	9.09	636.30	1,378.65	16,543.80	727.20	1,575.60	18,907.20
CA/13/02	9.27	648.90	1,405.95	16,871.40	741.60	1,606.80	19,281.60
CA/13/03	9.52	666.40	1,443.87	17,326.40	761.60	1,650.13	19,801.60
CA/13/04	9.76	683.20	1,480.27	17,763.20	780.80	1,691.73	20,300.80
CA/13/05	10.00	700.00	1,516.67	18,200.00	800.00	1,733.33	20,800.00
CA/13/06	10.23	716.10	1,551.55	18,618.60	818.40	1,773.20	21,278.40
CA/13/07	10.55	738.50	1,600.08	19,201.00	844.00	1,828.67	21,944.00
CA/13/08	10.73	751.10	1,627.38	19,528.60	858.40	1,859.87	22,318.40
CA/13/09	11.02	771.40	1,671.37	20,056.40	881.60	1,910.13	22,921.60
CA/13/10	11.36	795.20	1,722.93	20,675.20	908.80	1,969.07	23,628.80
							
CA/14/01	9.52	666.40	1,443.87	17,326.40	761.60	1,650.13	19,801.60
CA/14/02	9.76	683.20	1,480.27	17,763.20	780.80	1,691.73	20,300.80
CA/14/03	10.00	700.00	1,516.67	18,200.00	800.00	1,733.33	20,800.00
CA/14/04	10.23	716.10	1,551.55	18,618.60	818.40	1,773.20	21,278.40
CA/14/05	10.55	738.50	1,600.08	19,201.00	844.00	1,828.67	21,944.00
CA/14/06	10.73	751.10	1,627.38	19,528.60	858.40	1,859.87	22,318.40
CA/14/07	11.02	771.40	1,671.37	20,056.40	881.60		1,910.13	22,921.60
CA/14/08	11.36	795.20	1,722.93	20,675.20	908.80	1,969.07	23,628.80
CA/14/09	11.59	811.30	1,757.82	21,093.80	927.20	2,008.93	24,107.20
CA/14/10	11.87	830.90	1,800.28	21,603.40	949.60	2,057.47	24,689.60
							
Appendix C4
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CA
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CA/15/01	10.00	700.00	1,516.67	18,200.00	800.00	1,733.33	20,800.00
CA/15/02	10.23	716.10	1,551.55	18,618.60	818.40	1,773.20	21,278.40
CA/15/03	10.55	738.50	1,600.08	19,201.00	844.00	1,828.67	21,944.00
CA/15/04	10.73	751.10	1,627.38	19,528.60	858.40	1,859.87	22,318.40
CA/15/05	11.02	771.40	1,671.37	20,056.40	881.60	1,910.13	22,921.60
CA/15/06	11.36	795.20	1,722.93	20,675.20	908.80	1,969.07	23,628.80
CA/15/07	11.59	811.30	1,757.82	21,093.80	927.20	2,008.93	24,107.20
CA/15/08	11.87	830.90	1,800.28	21,603.40	949.60	2,057.47	24,689.60
CA/15/09	12.22	855.40	1,853.37	22,240.40	977.60	2,118.13	25,417.60
CA/15/10	12.46	872.20	1,889.77	22,677.20	996.80	2,159.73	25,916.80
							
CA/16/01	10.55	738.50	1,600.08	19,201.00	844.00	1,828.67	21,944.00
CA/16/02	10.73	751.10	1,627.38	19,528.60	858.40	1,859.87	22,318.40
CA/16/03	11.02	771.40	1,671.37	20,056.40	881.60	1,910.13	22,921.60
CA/16/04	11.36	795.20	1,722.93	20,675.20	908.80	1,969.07	23,628.80
CA/16/05	11.59	811.30	1,757.82	21,093.80	927.20	2,008.93	24,107.20
CA/16/06	11.87	830.90	1,800.28	21,603.40	949.60	2,057.47	24,689.60
CA/16/07	12.22	855.40	1,853.37	22,240.40	977.60	2,118.13	25,417.60
CA/16/08	12.46	872.20	1,889.77	22,677.20	996.80	2,159.73	25,916.80
CA/16/09	12.78	894.60	1,938.30	23,259.60	1,022.40	2,215.20	26,582.40
CA/16/10		13.13	919.10	1,991.38	23,896.60	1,050.40	2,275.87	27,310.40
							
CA/17/01	11.02	771.40	1,671.37	20,056.40	881.60	1,910.13	22,921.60
CA/17/02	11.36	795.20	1,722.93	20,675.20	908.80	1,969.07	23,628.80
CA/17/03	11.59	_	811.30	1,757.82	21,093.80	927.20		2,008.93	24,107.20
C A/17/04	 _	11.87	830.90	1,800.28	21,603.40	_ __ 949.60	2,057.47	24,689.60
CA/17/05	12.22	855.40	1,853.37	22,240.40	977.60	2,118.13	25,417.60
CA/17/06	12.46	872.20	1,889.77	22,677.20	996.80	2,159.73	25,916.80
CA/17/07	12.78	894.60	1,938.30	23,259.60	1,022.40	2,215.20	26,582.40
C A/17/08	13.13	919.10	1,991.38	23,896.60	1,050.40	2,275.87	27,310.40
CA/17/09	13.42	939.40	2,035.37	24,424.40	1,073.60	2,326.13	27,913.60
CA/17/10 			13.79	965.30	2,091.48	25,097.80	1,103.20	2,390.27	28,683.20
							
CA/18/01	11.59	811.30	1,757.82	21,093.80	927.20	2,008.93	24,107.20
CA/18/02		830.90	1,800.28	21,603.40	949.60	2,057.47	24,689.60
C A/18/03	12.22	855.40	1,853.37	22,240.40	977.60	2,118.13	25,417.60
CA/18/04		872.20	1,889.77	22,677.20	996.80	2,159.73	25,916.80
CA/18/05	1278	894.60	1,938.30	23,259.60	1,022.40	2,215.20	26,582.40
CA/18/06	13.13	919.10	1,991.38	23,896.60	1,050.40	2,275.87	27,310.40
CA/18/07	13.42	939.40	2,035.37	24,424.40	1,073.60	2,326.13	27,913.60
CA/18/08	13.79	965.30	2,091.48	25,097.80	1,103.20	2,390.27	28,683.20
CA/18/09	14J4	989.80	2,144.57	25,734.80	1,131.20	2,450.93	29,411.20
CA/18/10	14.47	1,012.90	2,194.62	26,335.40	1,157.60	2,508.13	30,097.60
							I								 	
Appendix C5
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CA
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CA/19/01	12.22	855.40	1,853.37	22,240.40	977.60	2,118.13	25,417.60
CA/19/02	12.46	872.20	1,889.77	22,677.20	996.80	2,159.73	25,916.80
CA/19/03	12.78	894.60	1,938.30	23,259.60	1,022.40	2,215.20	26,582.40
CA/19/04	13.13	919.10	1,991.38	23,896.60	1,050.40	2,275.87	27,310.40
CA/19/05	13.42	939.40	2,035.37	24,424.40	1,073.60	2,326.13	27,913.60
CA/19/06	13.79	965.30	2,091.48	25,097.80	1,103.20	2,390.27	28,683.20
CA/19/07	14.14	989.80	2,144.57	25,734.80	1,131.20	2,450.93	29,411.20
CA/19/08	14.47	1,012.90	2,194.62	26,335.40	1,157.60	2,508.13	30,097.60
CA/19/09	14.85	1,039.50	2,252.25	27,027.00	1,188.00	2,574.00	30,888.00
CA/19/10	15.20	1,064.00	2,305.33	27,664.00	1,216.00	2,634.67	31,616.00
							
CA/20/01	12.78	894.60	1,938.30	23,259.60	1,022.40	2,215.20	26,582.40
CA/20/02	13.13	919.10	1,991.38	23,896.60	1,050.40	2,275.87	27,310.40
CA/20/03	13.42	939.40	2,035.37	24,424.40	1,073.60	2,326.13	27,913.60
CA/20/04	13.79	965.30	2,091.48	25,097.80	1,103.20	2,390.27	28,683.20
CA/20/05	14.14	989.80	2,144.57	25,734.80	1,131.20	2,450.93	29,411.20
CA/20/06	14.47	1,012.90	2,194.62	26,335.40	1,157.60	2,508.13	30,097.60
CA/20/07	14.85	1,039.50	2,252.25	27,027.00	1,188.00	2,574.00	30,888.00
CA/20/08	15.20	1,064.00	2,305.33	27,664.00	1,216.00	2,634.67	31,616.00
CA/20/09	15.61	1,092.70	2,367.52	28,410.20	1,248.80	2,705.73	32,468.80
CA/20/10	15.98	1,118.60	2,423.63	29,083.60	1,278.40	2,769.87	33,238.40
							
CA/21/01	13.42	939.40	2,035.37	24,424.40	1,073.60	2,326.13	27,913.60
CA/21/02	13.79	965.30	2,091.48	25,097.80	1,103.20	2,390.27	28,683.20
CA/21/03	14.14	989.80	2,144.57	25,734.80	1,131.20	2,450.93	29,411.20
CA/21/04	14.47	1,012.90	2,194.62	26,335.40	1,157.60	2,508.13	30,097.60
CA/21/05	14.85	1,039.50	2,252.25	27,027.00	1,188.00	2,574.00	30,888.00
CA/21/06	15.20	1,064.00	2,305.33	27,664.00	1,216.00	2,634.67	31,616.00
CA/21/07	15.61	1,092.70	2,367.52	28,410.20	1,248.80	2,705.73	32,468.80
CA/21/08	15.98	1,118.60	2,423.63	29,083.60	1,278.40	2,769.87	33,238.40
CA/21/09	16.38	1,146.60	2,484.30	29,811.60	1,310.40	2,839.20	34,070.40
CA/21/10	16.78	1,174.60	2,544.97	30,539.60	1,342.40	2,908.53	34,902.40
							
CA/22/01	14.14	989.80	2,144.57	25,734.80	1,131.20	2,450.93	29,411.20
CA/22/02	14.47	1,012.90	2,194.62	26,335.40	1,157.60	2,508.13	30,097.60
CA/22/03	14.85	1,039.50	2,252.25	27,027.00	1,188.00	2,574.00	30,888.00
CA/22/04	15.20	1,064.00	2,305.33	27,664.00	1,216.00	2,634.67	31,616.00
CA/22/05	15.61	1,092.70	2,367.52	28,410.20	1,248.80	2,705.73	32,468.80
CA/22/06	15.98	1,118.60	2,423.63	29,083.60	1,278.40	2,769.87	33,238.40
CA/22/07	16.38	1,146.60	2,484.30	29,811.60	1,310.40	2,839.20	34,070.40
CA/22/08	16.78	1,174.60	2,544.97	30,539.60	1,342.40	2,908.53	34,902.40
CA/22/09	17.24	1,206.80	2,614.73	31,376.80	1,379.20	2,988.27	35,859.20
CA/22/10	17.61	1,232.70	2,670.85	32,050.20	1,408.80	3,052.40	36,628.80
							
Appendix C6
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CA
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CA/23/01	14.85	1,039.50	2,252.25	27,027.00	1,188.00	2,574.00	30,888.00
CA/23/02	15.20	1,064.00	2,305.33	27,664.00	1,216.00	2,634.67	31,616.00
CA/23/03	15.61	1,092.70	2,367.52	28,410.20	1,248.80	2,705.73	32,468.80
CA/23/04	15.98	1,118.60	2,423.63	29,083.60	1,278.40	2,769.87	33,238.40
CA/23/05	16.38	1,146.60	2,484.30	29,811.60	1,310.40	2,839.20	34,070.40
CA/23/06	16.78	1,174.60	2,544.97	30,539.60	1,342.40	2,908.53	34,902.40
CA/23/07	17.24	1,206.80	2,614.73	31,376.80	1,379.20	2,988.27	35,859.20
CA/23/08	17.61	1,232.70	2,670.85	32,050.20	1,408.80	3,052.40	36,628.80
CA/23/09	18.07	1,264.90	2,740.62	32,887.40	1,445.60	3,132.13	37,585.60
CA/23/10	18.53	1,297.10	2,810.38	33,724.60	1,482.40	3,211.87	38,542.40
							
CA/24/01	15.61	1,092.70	2,367.52	28,410.20	1,248.80	2,705.73	32,468.80
CA/24/02	15.98	1,118.60	2,423.63	29,083.60	1,278.40	2,769.87	33,238.40
CA/24/03	16.38	1,146.60	2,484.30	29,811.60	1,310.40	2,839.20	34,070.40
CA/24/04	16.78	1,174.60	2,544.97	30,539.60	1,342.40	2,908.53	34,902.40
CA/24/05	17.24	1,206.80	2,614.73	31,376.80	1,379.20	2,988.27	35,859.20
CA/24/06	17.61	1,232.70	2,670.85	32,050.20	1,408.80	3,052.40	36,628.80
CA/24/07	18.07	1,264.90	2,740.62	32,887.40	1,445.60	3,132.13	37,585.60
CA/24/08	18.53	1,297.10	2,810.38	33,724.60	1,482.40	3,211.87	38,542.40
CA/24/09	18.97	1,327.90	2,877.12	34,525.40	1,517.60	3,288.13	39,457.60
CA/24/10	19.41	1,358.70	2,943.85	35,326.20	1,552.80	3,364.40	40,372.80
							
CA/25/01	16.38	1,146.60	2,484.30	29,811.60	1,310.40	2,839.20	34,070.40
CA/25/02	16.78	1,174.60	2,544.97	30,539.60	1,342.40	2,908.53	34,902.40
CA/25/03	17.24	1,206.80	2,614.73	31,376.80	1,379.20	2,988.27	35,859.20
CA/25/04	17.61	1,232.70	2,670.85	32,050.20	1,408.80	3,052.40	36,628.80
CA/25/05	18.07	1,264.90	2,740.62	32,887.40	1,445.60	3,132.13	37,585.60
CA/25/06	18.53	1,297.10	2,810.38	33,724.60	1,482.40	3,211.87	38,542.40
CA/25/07	18.97	1,327.90	2,877.12	34,525.40	1,517.60	3,288.13	39,457.60
CA/25/08	19.41	1,358.70	2,943.85	35,326.20	1,552.80	3,364.40	40,372.80
CA/25/09	19.92	1,394.40	3,021.20	36,254.40	1,593.60	3,452.80	41,433.60
CA/25/10	20.46	1,432.20	3,103.10	37,237.20	1,636.80	3,546.40	42,556.80
							
CA/26/01	17.24	1,206.80	2,614.73	31,376.80	1,379.20	2,988.27	35,859.20
CA/26/02	17.61	1,232.70	2,670.85	32,050.20	1,408.80	3,052.40	36,628.80
CA/26/03	18.07	1,264.90	2,740.62	32,887.40	1,445.60	3,132.13	37,585.60
CA/26/04	18.53	1,297.10	2,810.38	33,724.60	1,482.40	3,211.87	38,542.40
CA/26/05	18.97	1,327.90	2,877.12	34,525.40	1,517.60	3,288.13	39,457.60
CA/26/06	19.41	1,358.70	2,943.85	35,326.20	1,552.80	3,364.40	40,372.80
CA/26/07	19.92	1,394.40	3,021.20	36,254.40	1,593.60	3,452.80	41,433.60
CA/26/08	20.46	1,432.20	3,103.10	37,237.20	1,636.80	3,546.40	42,556.80
CA/26/09	20.96	1,467.20	3,178.93	38,147.20	1,676.80	3,633.07	43,596.80
CA/26/10	21.47	1,502.90	3,256.28	39,075.40	1,717.60	3,721.47	44,657.60
							
Appendix C7
06/16/2004
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CA
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CA/27/01	18.07	1,264.90	2,740.62	32,887.40	1,445.60	3,132.13	37,585.60
CA/27/02	18.53	1,297.10	2,810.38	33,724.60	1,482.40	3,211.87	38,542.40
CA/27/03	18.97	1,327.90	2,877.12	34,525.40	1,517.60	3,288.13	39,457.60
CA/27/04	19.41	1,358.70	2,943.85	35,326.20	1,552.80	3,364.40	40,372.80
CA/27/05	19.92	1,394.40	3,021.20	36,254.40	1,593.60	3,452.80	41,433.60
CA/27/06	20.46	1,432.20	3,103.10	37,237.20	1,636.80	3,546.40	42,556.80
CA/27/07	20.96	1,467.20	3,178.93	38,147.20	1,676.80	3,633.07	43,596.80
CA/27/08	21.47	1,502.90	3,256.28	39,075.40	1,717.60	3,721.47	44,657.60
CA/27/09	22.00	1,540.00	3,336.67	40,040.00	1,760.00	3,813.33	45,760.00
CA/27/10	22.54	1,577.80	3,418.57	41,022.80	1,803.20	3,906.93	46,883.20
							
CA/28/01	18.97	1,327.90	2,877.12	34,525.40	1,517.60	3,288.13	39,457.60
CA/28/02	19.41	1,358.70	2,943.85	35,326.20	1,552.80	3,364.40	40,372.80
CA/28/03	19.92	1,394.40	3,021.20	36,254.40	1,593.60	3,452.80	41,433.60
CA/28/04	20.46	1,432.20	3,103.10	37,237.20	1,636.80	3,546.40	42,556.80
CA/28/05	20.96	1,467.20	3,178.93	38,147.20	1,676.80	3,633.07	43,596.80
CA/28/06	21.47	1,502.90	3,256.28	39,075.40	1,717.60	3,721.47	44,657.60
CA/28/07	22.00	1,540.00	3,336.67	40,040.00	1,760.00	3,813.33	45,760.00
CA/28/08	22.54	1,577.80	3,418.57	41,022.80	1,803.20	3,906.93	46,883.20
CA/28/09	23.14	1,619.80	3,509.57	42,114.80	1,851.20	4,010.93	48,131.20
CA/28/10	23.69	1,658.30	3,592.98	43,115.80	1,895.20	4,106.27	49,275.20
							
CA/29/01	19.92	1,394.40	3,021.20	36,254.40	1,593.60	3,452.80	41,433.60
CA/29/02	20.46	1,432.20	3,103.10	37,237.20	1,636.80	3,546.40	42,556.80
CA/29/03	20.96	1,467.20	3,178.93	38,147.20	1,676.80	3,633.07	43,596.80
CA/29/04	21.47	1,502.90	3,256.28	39,075.40	1,717.60	3,721.47	44,657.60
CA/29/05	22.00	1,540.00	3,336.67	40,040.00	1,760.00	3,813.33	45,760.00
CA/29/06	22.54	1,577.80	3,418.57	41,022.80	1,803.20	3,906.93	46,883.20
CA/29/07	23.14	1,619.80	3,509.57	42,114.80	1,851.20	4,010.93	48,131.20
CA/29/08	23.69	1,658.30	3,592.98	43,115.80	1,895.20	4,106.27	49,275.20
CA/29/09	24.32	1,702.40	3,688.53	44,262.40	1,945.60	4,215.47	50,585.60
CA/29/10	24.90	1,743.00	3,776.50	45,318.00	1,992.00	4,316.00	51,792.00
							
CA/30/01	20.96	1,467.20	3,178.93	38,147.20	1,676.80	3,633.07	43,596.80
CA/30/02	21.47	1,502.90	3,256.28	39,075.40	1,717.60	3,721.47	44,657.60
CA/30/03	22.00	1,540.00	3,336.67	40,040.00	1,760.00	3,813.33	. 45,760.00
CA/30/04	22.54	1,577.80	3,418.57	41,022.80	1,803.20	3,906.93	46,883.20
CA/30/05	23.14	1,619.80	3,509.57	42,114.80	1,851.20	4,010.93	48,131.20
CA/30/06	23.69	1,658.30	3,592.98	43,115.80	1,895.20	4,106.27	49,275.20
CA/30/07	24.32	1,702.40	3,688.53	44,262.40	1,945.60	4,215.47	50,585.60
CA/30/08	24.90	1,743.00	3,776.50	45,318.00	1,992.00	4,316.00	51,792.00
CA/30/09	25.53	1,787.10	3,872.05	46,464.60	2,042.40	4,425.20	53,102.40
CA/30/10	26.18	1,832.60	3,970.63	47,647.60	2,094.40	4,537.87	54,454.40
							
Appendix C8
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE > CA
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CA/31/01	22.00	1,540.00	3,336.67	40,040.00	1,760.00	3,813.33	45,760.00
CA/31/02	22.54	1,577.80	3,418.57	41,022.80	1,803.20	3,906.93	46,883.20
CA/31/03	23.14	1,619.80	3,509.57	42,114.80	1,851.20	4,010.93	48,131.20
CA/31/04	23.69	1,658.30	3,592.98	43,115.80	1,895.20	4,106.27	49,275.20
CA/31/05	24.32	1,702.40	3,688.53	44,262.40	1,945.60	4,215.47	50,585.60
CA/31/06	24.90	1,743.00	3,776.50	45,318.00	1,992.00	4,316.00	51,792.00
CA/31/07	25.53	1,787.10	3,872.05	46,464.60	2,042.40	4,425.20	53,102.40
CA/31/08	26.18	1,832.60	3,970.63	47,647.60	2,094.40	4,537.87	54,454.40
CA/31/09	26.85	1,879.50	4,072.25	48,867.00	2,148.00	4,654.00	55,848.00
CA/31/10	27.52	1,926.40	4,173.87	50,086.40	2,201.60	4,770.13	57,241.60
							
CA/32/01	23.14	1,619.80	3,509.57	42,114.80	1,851.20	4,010.93	48,131.20
CA/32/02	23.69	1,658.30	3,592.98	43,115.80	1,895.20	4,106.27	49,275.20
CA/32/03	24.32	1,702.40	3,688.53	44,262.40	1,945.60	4,215.47	50,585.60
CA/32/04	24.90	1,743.00	3,776.50	45,318.00	1,992.00	4,316.00	51,792.00
CA/32/05	25.53	1,787.10	3,872.05	46,464.60	2,042.40	4,425.20	53,102.40
CA/32/06	26.18	1,832.60	3,970.63	47,647.60	2,094.40	4,537.87	54,454.40
CA/32/07	26.85	1,879.50	4,072.25	48,867.00	2,148.00	4,654.00	55,848.00
CA/32/08	27.52	1,926.40	4,173.87	50,086.40	2,201.60	4,770.13	57,241.60
CA/32/09	28.21	1,974.70	4,278.52	51,342.20	2,256.80	4,889.73	58,676.80
CA/32/10	28.91	2,023.70	4,384.68	52,616.20	2,312.80	5,011.07	60,132.80
							
CA/33/01	24.32	1,702.40	3,688.53	44,262.40	1,945.60	4,215.47	50,585.60
CA/33/02	24.90	1,743.00	3,776.50	45,318.00	1,992.00	4,316.00	51,792.00
CA/33/03	25.53	1,787.10	3,872.05	46,464.60	2,042.40	4,425.20	53,102.40
CA/33/04	26.18	1,832.60	3,970.63	47,647.60	2,094.40	4,537.87	54,454.40
CA/33/05	26.85	1,879.50	4,072.25	48,867.00	2,148.00	4,654.00	55,848.00
CA/33/06	27.52	1,926.40	4,173.87	50,086.40	2,201.60	4,770.13	57,241.60
CA/33/07	28.21	1,974.70	4,278.52	51,342.20	2,256.80	4,889.73	58,676.80
CA/33/08	28.91	2,023.70	4,384.68	52,616.20	2,312.80	5,011.07	60,132.80
CA/33/09	29.65	2,075.50	4,496.92	53,963.00	2,372.00	5,139.33	61,672.00
CA/33/10	30.38	2,126.60	4,607.63	55,291.60	2,430.40	5,265.87	63,190.40
							
CA/34/01	25.53	1,787.10	3,872.05	46,464.60	2,042.40	4,425.20	53,102.40
CA/34/02	26.18	1,832.60	3,970.63	47,647.60	2,094.40	4,537.87	54,454.40
CA/34/03	26.85	1,879.50	4,072.25	48,867.00	2,148.00	4,654.00	55,848.00
CA/34/04	27.52	1,926.40	4,173.87	50,086.40	2,201.60	4,770.13	57,241.60
CA/34/05	28.21	1,974.70	4,278.52	51,342.20	2,256.80	4,889.73	58,676.80
CA/34/06	28.91	2,023.70	4,384.68	52,616.20	2,312.80	5,011.07	60,132.80
CA/34/07	29.65	2,075.50	4,496.92	53,963.00	2,372.00	5,139.33	61,672.00
CA/34/08	30.38	2,126.60	4,607.63	55,291.60	2,430.40	5,265.87	63,190.40
CA/34/09	31.13	2,179.10	4,721.38	56,656.60	2,490.40	5,395.87	64,750.40
CA/34/10	31.89	2,232.30	4,836.65	58,039.80	2,551.20	5,527.60	66,331.20
							
Appendix C9
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CA
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CA/35/01	26.85	1,879.50	4,072.25	48,867.00	2,148.00	4,654.00	55,848.00
CA/35/02	27.52	1,926.40	4,173.87	50,086.40	2,201.60	4,770.13	57,241.60
CA/35/03	28.21	1,974.70	4,278.52	51,342.20	2,256.80	4,889.73	58,676.80
CA/35/04	28.91	2,023.70	4,384.68	52,616.20	2,312.80	5,011.07	60,132.80
CA/35/05	I"	29.65	2,075.50	4,496.92	53,963.00	2,372.00	5,139.33	61,672.00
CA/35/06		30.38	2,126.60	4,607.63	55,291.60	2,430.40	5,265.87	63,190.40
CA/35/07	31.13	2,179.10	4,721.38	56,656.60	2,490.40	5,395.87	64,750.40
CA/35/08	31.89	2,232.30	4,836.65	58,039.80	2,551.20	5,527.60	66,331.20
CA/35/09	32.70	2,289.00	4,959.50	59,514.00	2,616.00	5,668.00	68,016.00
CA/35/10	33.50	2,345.00	5,080.83	60,970.00	2,680.00	5,806.67	69,680,00
Appendix CIO
APPENDIX C
SEPARATE SCHEDULE CLASSES
SALARY SCHEDULE A
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Special Assistant -	SA	$11.73	821.10
Severely Mentally &	SB	12.00	840.00
Physically Challenged	SC	12.30	861.00
	SD	12.67	886.90
	SE	13.01	910.70
	SF	13.33	933.10
	SG	13.68	957.60
	SH	14.03	982.10
	SI	14.36	1,005.20
	SJ	14.70	1,029.00
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Teacher Assistant	SA	$11.16	$781.20
	SB	11.42	799.40
	SC	11.73	821.10
	SD	12.00	840.00
	SE	12.30	861.00
	SF	12.67	886.90
	SG	13.01	910.70
	SH	13.33	933.10
	SI	13.68	957.60
	SJ	14.03	982.10
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Computer Assistant	SA	$11.16	$781.20
	SB	11.42	799.40
	SC	11.73	821.10
	SD	12.00	840.00
	SE	12.30	861.00
	SF	12.67	886.90
	SG	13.01	910.70
	SH	13.33	933.10
	SI	13.68	957.60
	SJ	14.03	982.10
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Clinical Assistant	SA	$11.16	$781.20
	SB	11.42	799.40
	SC	11.73	821.10
	SD	12.00	840.00
	SE	12.30	861.00
	SF	12.67	886.90
	SG	13.01	910.70
	SH	13.33	933.10
Appendix C11
APPENDIX C
SEPARATE SCHEDULE CLASSES
SALARY SCHEDULE A
	Range	Step	Hourly
Bus Driver	BD	BA	$10.60
	BD	BB	10.90
	BD	BC	11.24
	BD	BD	11.52
	BD	BE	11.80
	BD	BF	12.10
	BD	BG	12.38
	BD	BH	12.72
	BD	Bl	13.01
	BD	BJ	13.34
Bus Driver/Special Education	BD/SE	BA	11.24
	BD/SE	BB	11.52
♦	BD/SE	BC	11.80
	BD/SE	BD	12.10
	BD/SE	BE	12.38
	BD/SE	BF	12.72
	BD/SE	BG	13.01
	BD/SE	BH	13.34
	BD/SE	Bl	13.69
	BD/SE	BJ	13.99
Bus Driver/lnstructor-Evaluator	BD/IE	BA	11.80
	BD/IE	BB	12.10
	BD/IE	BC	12.38
	BD/IE	BD	12.72
	BD/IE	BE	13.01
	BD/IE	BF	13.34
	BD/IE	BG	13.69
	BD/IE	BH	13.99
	BD/IE	Bl	14.59
	BD/IE	BJ	14.70
Appendix C12
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE "B" 2004-2005 EMPLOYEE/EMPLOYER PAID RETIREMENT
1. Full Schedule Classes
20 Accountability Technician
19	Account Clerk I
20	Account Clerk II
15 Account Clerk Trainee
22 Account Technician
25 Accounts Payable Supervisor
20	Administrative Secretary I
21	Administrative Secretary II
23 Administrative Secretary III
19	Assistant Carpenter
20	Assistant Mechanic
22 Assistant Site Coordinator (21st)
19 Assistant Upholsterer
19 Attendance Officer
30 Audio-Visual Media Technician
21 Audio-Visual Technician (Read First)
19 Audit Clerk
13 Bindery Machine Operator
28 Bond Program Controller (IT)
26 Building Inspector
22 Buyer I
25 Buyer II
17 Campus Supervisor
25 Carpenter
28 Carpenter Shop Supervisor
21 Case Manager (Family Focus)
23 Central Services Liaison
22 Cert Occup Therapy Assst/SpEd
14	Clerk
15	Clinical Aide
35 COBOL/SQL Developer
22 Communications & Records Manager
19 Computer Operator I
21	Computer Operator II
22	Comp Oper Testing/Evaluation
24 Computer Support Specialist
24 Computer Technology Trainer
32 Comp Tech Training Supervisor
15	Custodian
16	Custodian/Grounds Worker
26 Data Analyst
26 Data Analyst-Web Registration
24 Data Coordinator
11 Delivery/Receiver Worker
26 Demographer/GIS Technician
22 Desktop Support Technician
24 Desktop Support Technician I
26 Desktop Support Technician II
28 Desktop Support Technician III
14 Dining Room Chef/Manager
20	Dispatch Technician I
21	Dispatch Technician II
18 Dispatch Technician Assistant
18 Districtwide Grounds Maintainer
28 Drafting Technician
21	Early Childhood Specialist (COW)
22	Electrician I
26 Electrician II
26 Electronic Systems Technician
25 Electronic Technician-Audio Visual
25 Elec Technician-Photocopiers
25 Elec Tech-Video Systems
25 Elec Tech Word Processor/Typewriter
22 Environmental Assessment Tech I
25 Environmental Assessment Tech II
19	Equipment Operator I
20	Equipment Operator II
24 Equipment Operator III
07/04
18 Equipment Service Technician
29 Equipment Shop Supervisor
17 Family Advocate I
21 Family Advocate II
30 Fleet Maintenance Coordinator
15	Fuel Island Attendant
17	Garage Service Attendant
18	Groundskeeper I
19	Groundskeeper II
28 Groundskeeper Supervisor
18 Home Educator Advocate-Title I
23 Homeless Liaison-Title I
25 Housekeeping Field Supervisor
24 Housekeeping Training Supervisor
28 HVAC Shop Supervisor
26 HVAC Systems Control Technician
33 Internet Services Technician
19	Irrigation Systems Maintainer
19	Job Developer/Coach
20	Lead Custodian I
21	Lead Custodian II
26 Lead Electronic Technician
14 Lead Nutrition Service Worker
27 Legal Division Investigator
16	Library Assistant I
18	Library Assistant II
19	Library Associate I
21 Library Associate II
21 Locksmith
17	Mail Clerk I
18	Mail Clerk II
20 Maintenance Technician I
22 Maintenance Technician II
25 Mechanic I
27 Mechanic II
26 Mechanical Technician
21 Mentor Program Coordinator
25 Musical Instrument Technician
33 Network Analyst
33 Network Support Technician
22 NS Appliance Technician I
25 NS Appliance Technician II
28 NS Appliance Tech Supervisor
14 NS Assistant Manager II
21 NS Assistant Supervisor
18	NS Banquet Manager
19	NS Center Kitchen Manager
26 NS Computer Technician
13 NS Computer Technology Trainer
12 NS Dishwasher
13 NS Elem Manager
19 NS Field Supervisor
24 NS Inventory Control Technician
16 NS Manager I
18 NS Manager II
28 NS Prod Facilities Supervisor
25 NS Supervisor
12 NS Worker I
10 NS Worker Assistant
18 Offset Machine Operator I
21 Offset Machine Operator II
15 Offset Machine Operator Trainee
26 Oper/Transp Field Supervisor
21 Painter I
25 Painter II
28 Paint Shop Supervisor
17 Parent Involvement Facilitator-Title I
22 Plumber I
Effective July 1, 2004
26	Plumber II
27	Preventive Main & Assess Supervisor
21 Preventive Maintenance Technician
29 Print Shop Supervisor
22 Program Facilitator
20 Program Services Technician I
22 Program Services Technician II
22 Property Control Technician
10 Pupil Transportation Assistant
21 Records & Documents Technician
33 Regulated Systems Specialist
22 Remodel Shop Technician
28 Remodel Supervisor
24 Roofing Technician
20 School Bookkeeper
20 School Police Dispatch Tech I
20 School Registrar
21 School Secretary
17	Secretary I
18	Secretary II
19	Secretary II — Middle School
16	Senior Clerk
16	Senior Film Library Clerk
33 Senior Network Architect
22 Senior School Secretary
21 Senior School Secretay-Magnet HS
23 Site Coordinator (21st Century)
20	Site Facilities Coordinator I
21	Site Facilities Coordinator II
22	Site Facilities Coordinator III
19 Small Engine Mechanic
24 Software Support Specialist
22 Specialized Health Care Technician
25 Special Program Coordinator
21 Special Projects Coordinator
23 Special Projects Coordinator-STOP
25 Speech Pathologist Technician
18 Storekeeper I
20 Storekeeper II
28 Structured Cabling Specialist
22 Student Accounting Assistant -Student Attendance CRT
18 Student Records Secretary
17 Switchboard Operator/Receptionist
33 Systems Analyst
33 Sys Analyst/Data Base Administrator
30 Systems Applications Programmer
10	Teacher Aide
11	Teacher Aide (Highly Qualified)
11	Teacher Aide/Special Education
12	Teacher Aide/SpEd (HighlyQualified)
15 Teacher Aide/Hearing Impaired
24 Telecommunications Supp Specialist
19	Translation Specialist
20	Transportation Instructor/Evaluator
23 Transportation Safety Supervisor
26 Transportation Site Supervisor
23 Transportation Training Supervisor
20 Typesetter/Graphic Artist
25 Upholsterer
35 Visual Basic/SQL Developer
24 Warehouse Supervisor
15 Warehouse Worker
18 Warehouse Worker/Driver I
20 Warehouse Worker/Driver II
16 Warehouse Worker/Mail Clerk
20 Welder
31 Wellness Coordinator
c:docs.clsscha.mj
Appendix C13
APPENDIX C
II.	Separate Schedule Classes
Special Assistant-Severely Mentally & Physically Challenged Teacher Assistant Computer Assistant Clinical Assistant
Bus Driver Bus Driver/lnstructor-Evaluator Bus Driver/Special Education
III.	Non-Scheduled Classes
Classification
AVID Tutor Student Worker Work Study Student
See Separate Schedule Classes
See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes
See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes
Hourly Rate
$7.37
6.23
5.80
SCHEDULE NOTES
I.	Full Schedule Classes
Employees in these classifications will have, in addition to their annual wages, approximately 10.50% of the annual wages paid by the Washoe County School District to the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) for retirement benefits. The employee, in turn, has approximately 10.50% of his/her salary withheld. (2003)
II.	Separate Schedule Classes
Employees in these classifications have the same retirement contributions made as employees in the Full Schedule Classes.
III.	Non-Scheduled Classes
Employees in these classifications with a regular workweek which averages 20 hours or more will have, in addition to their salary, approximately 10.50% of the salary paid by the Washoe County School District to the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) for retirement benefits. The employee, in turn, has approximately 10.50% of his/her salary withheld. (2003)	-
Schedule “B”
06/04
Appendix C14
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING	06/16/2004
SCHEDULE - CB
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CB/07/01	7.46	522.20	1,131.43	13,577.20	596.80	1,293.07	15,516.80
CB/07/02	7.63	534.10	1,157.22	13,886.60	610.40	1,322.53	15,870.40
CB/07/03	7.83	548.10	1,187.55	14,250.60	626.40	1,357.20	16,286.40
CB/07/04	8.08	565.60	1,225.47	14,705.60	646.40	1,400.53	16,806.40
CB/07/05	8.23	576.10	1,248.22	14,978.60	658.40	1,426.53	17,118.40
CB/07/06	8.45	591.50	1,281.58	15,379.00	676.00	1,464.67	17,576.00
CB/07/07	8.66	606.20	1,313.43	15,761.20	692.80	1,501.07	18,012.80
CB/07/08	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
CB/07/09	9.06	634.20	1,374.10	16,489.20	724.80	1,570.40	18,844.80
CB/07/10	9.27	648.90	1,405.95	16,871.40	741.60	1,606.80	19,281.60
							
CB/08/01	7.83	548.10	1,187.55	14,250.60	626.40	1,357.20	16,286.40
CB/08/02	8.08	565.60	1,225.47	14,705.60	646.40	1,400.53	16,806.40
CB/08/03	8.23	576.10	1,248.22	14,978.60	658.40	1,426.53	17,118.40
CB/08/04	8.45	591.50	1,281.58	15,379.00	676.00	1,464.67	17,576.00
CB/08/05	8.66	606.20	1,313.43	15,761.20	692.80	1,501.07	18,012.80
CB/08/06	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
CB/08/07	9.06	634.20	1,374.10	16,489.20	724.80	1,570.40	18,844.80
CB/08/08	9.27	648.90	1,405.95	16,871.40	741.60	1,606.80	19,281.60
CB/08/09	9.59	671.30	1,454.48	17,453.80	767.20	1,662.27	19,947.20
CB/08/10	9.80	686.00	1,486.33	17,836.00	784.00	1,698.67	20,384.00
							
CB/09/01	8.23	576.10	1,248.22	14,978.60	658.40	1,426.53	17,118.40
CB/09/02	8.45	591.50	1,281.58	15,379.00	676.00	1,464.67	17,576.00
CB/09/03	8.66	606.20	1,313.43	15,761.20	692.80	1,501.07	18,012.80
CB/09/04	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
CB/09/05	9.06	634.20	1,374.10	16,489.20	724.80	1,570.40	18,844.80
CB/09/06	9.27	648.90	1,405.95	16,871.40	741.60	1,606.80	19,281.60
CB/09/07	9.59	671.30	1,454.48	17,453.80	767.20	1,662.27	19,947.20
CB/09/08	9.80	686.00	1,486.33	17,836.00	784.00	1,698.67	20,384.00
CB/09/09	10.06	704.20	1,525.77	18,309.20	804.80	1,743.73	20,924.80
CB/09/10	10.30	721.00	1,562.17	18,746.00	824.00	1,785.33	21,424.00
							
CB/10/01	8.66	606.20	1,313.43	15,761.20	692.80		1,501.07	18,012.80
CB/10/02		8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
CB/10/03	9.06	634.20	1,374.10	16,489.20	724.80	1,570.40	18,844.80
CB/10/04	9.27	648.90	1,405.95	16,871.40	741.60	1,606.80	19,281.60
CB/10/05	9.59	671.30	1,454.48	17,453.80	767.20	1,662.27	19,947.20
CB/10/06	9.80	686.00	1,486.33	17,836.00	784.00	1,698.67	20,384.00
CB/10/07	10.06	704.20	1,525.77	18,309.20	804.80	1,743.73	20,924.80
CB/10/08	10.30	721.00	1,562.17	18,746.00	824.00	1,785.33	21,424.00
CB/10/09	10.52	736.40	1,595.53	19,146.40	841.60	1,823.47	21,881.60
CB/10/10	10.81	756.70	1,639.52	J9.674.20	864.80 		1,873.73	22,484.80
Appendix C15
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CB
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CB/11/01	9.06	634.20	1,374.10	16,489.20	724.80	1,570.40	18,844.80
CB/11/02	9.27	648.90	1,405.95	16,871.40	741.60	1,606.80	19,281.60
CB/11/03	9.59	671.30	1,454.48	17,453.80	767.20	1,662.27	19,947.20
CB/11/04	9.80	686.00	1,486.33	17,836.00	784.00	1,698.67	20,384.00
CB/11/05	10.06	704.20	1,525.77	18,309.20	804.80	1,743.73	20,924.80
CB/11/06	10.30	721.00	1,562.17	18,746.00	824.00	1,785.33	21,424.00
CB/11/07	10.52	736.40	1,595.53	19,146.40	841.60	1,823.47	21,881.60
CB/11/08	10.81	756.70	1,639.52	19,674.20	864.80	1,873.73	22,484.80
CB/11/09	11.10	777.00	1,683.50	20,202.00	888.00	1,924.00	23,088.00
CB/11/10	11.34	793.80	1,719.90	20,638.80	907.20	1,965.60	23,587.20
							
CB/12/01	9.59	671.30	1,454.48	17,453.80	767.20	1,662.27	19,947.20
CB/12/02	9.80	686.00	1,486.33	17,836.00	784.00	1,698.67	20,384.00
CB/12/03	10.06	704.20	1,525.77	18,309.20	804.80	1,743.73	20,924.80
CB/12/04	10.30	721.00	1,562.17	18,746.00	824.00	1,785.33	21,424.00
CB/12/05	10.52	736.40	1,595.53	19,146.40	841.60	1,823.47	21,881.60
CB/12/06	10.81	756.70	1,639.52	19,674.20	864.80	1,873.73	22,484.80
CB/12/07	11.10	777.00	1,683.50	20,202.00	888.00	1,924.00	23,088.00
CB/12/08	11.34	793.80	1,719.90	20,638.80	907.20	1,965.60	23,587.20
CB/12/09	11.65	815.50	1,766.92	21,203.00	932.00	2,019.33	24,232.00
CB/12/10	11.89	832.30	1,803.32	21,639.80	951.20	2,060.93	24,731.20
							
CB/13/01	10.06	704.20	1,525.77	18,309.20	804.80	1,743.73	20,924.80
CB/13/02	10.30	721.00	1,562.17	18,746.00	824.00	1,785.33	21,424.00
CB/13/03	10.52	736.40	1,595.53	19,146.40	841.60	1,823.47	21,881.60
CB/13/04	10.81	756.70	1,639.52	19,674.20	864.80	1,873.73	22,484.80
CB/13/05	11.10	777.00	1,683.50	20,202.00	888.00	1,924.00	23,088.00
CB/13/06	11.34	793.80	1,719.90	20,638.80	907.20	1,965.60	23,587.20
CB/13/07	11.65	815.50	1,766.92	21,203.00	932.00	2,019.33	24,232.00
CB/13/08	11.89	832.30	1,803.32	21,639.80	951.20	2,060.93	24,731.20
CB/13/09	12.21	854.70	1,851.85	22,222.20	976.80	2,116.40	25,396.80
CB/13/10	12.58	880.60	1,907.97	22,895.60	1,006.40	2,180.53	26,166.40
							
CB/14/01	10.52	736.40	1,595.53	19,146.40	841.60	1,823.47	21,881.60
CB/14/02	10.81	756.70	1,639.52	19,674.20	864.80	1,873.73	22,484.80
CB/14/03	11.10	777.00	1,683.50	20,202.00	888.00	1,924.00	23,088.00
CB/14/04	11.34	793.80	1,719.90	20,638.80	907.20	1,965.60	23,587.20
CB/14/05	11.65	815.50	1,766.92	21,203.00	932.00	2,019.33	24,232.00
CB/14/06			11.89	832.30	1,803.32	21,639.80	951.20	2,060.93	24,731.20
CB/14/07	12.21	854.70	1,851.85	22,222.20	976.80	2,116.40	25,396.80
CB/14/08		12.58	880.60	1,907.97	22,895.60	1,006.40	2,180.53	26,166.40
CB/14/09	12.85	899.50	1,948.92	23,387.00	1,028.00	2,227.33	26,728.00
CB/14/10	13.15	920.50	1,994.42	23,933.00	1,052.00	2,279.33	27,352.00
							
Appendix C16
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CB
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CB/15/01	11.10	777.00	1,683.50	20,202.00	888.00	1,924.00	23,088.00
CB/15/02	11.34	793.80	1,719.90	20,638.80	907.20	1,965.60	23,587.20
CB/15/03	11.65	815.50	1,766.92	21,203.00	932.00	2,019.33	24,232.00
CB/15/04	11.89	832.30	1,803.32	21,639.80	951.20	2,060.93	24,731.20
CB/15/05	12.21	854.70	1,851.85	22,222.20	976.80	2,116.40	25,396.80
CB/15/06	12.58	880.60	1,907.97	22,895.60	1,006.40	2,180.53	26,166.40
CB/15/07	12.85	899.50	1,948.92	23,387.00	1,028.00	2,227.33	26,728.00
CB/15/08	13.15	920.50	1,994.42	23,933.00	1,052.00	2,279.33	27,352.00
CB/15/09	13.52	946.40	2,050.53	24,606.40	1,081.60	2,343.47	28,121.60
CB/15/10	13.81	966.70	2,094.52	25,134.20	1,104.80	2,393.73	28,724.80
							
CB/16/01	11.65	815.50	1,766.92	21,203.00	932.00	2,019.33	24,232.00
CB/16/02	11.89	832.30	1,803.32	21,639.80	951.20	2,060.93	24,731.20
CB/16/03	12.21	854.70	1,851.85	22,222.20	976.80	2,116.40	25,396.80
CB/16/04	12.58	880.60	1,907.97	22,895.60	1,006.40	2,180.53	26,166.40
CB/16/05	12.85	899.50	1,948.92	23,387.00	1,028.00	2,227.33	26,728.00
CB/16/06	13.15	920.50	1,994.42	23,933.00	1,052.00	2,279.33	27,352.00
CB/16/07	13.52	946.40	2,050.53	24,606.40	1,081.60	2,343.47	28,121.60
CB/16/08	13.81	966.70	2,094.52	25,134.20	1,104.80	2,393.73	28,724.80
CB/16/09	14.18	992.60	2,150.63	25,807.60	1,134.40	2,457.87	29,494.40
CB/16/10	14.55	1,018.50	2,206.75	26,481.00	1,164.00	2,522.00	30,264.00
							
CB/17/01	12.21	854.70	1,851.85	22,222.20	976.80	2,116.40	25,396.80
CB/17/02	12.58	880.60	1,907.97	22,895.60	1,006.40	2,180.53	26,166.40
CB/17/03	12.85	899.50	1,948.92	23,387.00	1,028.00	2,227.33	26,728.00
CB/17/04	13.15	920.50	1,994.42	23,933.00	1,052.00	2,279.33	27,352.00
CB/17/05	13.52	946.40	2,050.53	24,606.40	1,081.60	2,343.47	28,121.60
CB/17/06	13.81	966.70	2,094.52	25,134.20	1,104.80	2,393.73	28,724.80
CB/17/07	14.18	992.60	2,150.63	25,807.60	1,134.40	2,457.87	29,494.40
CB/17/08	14.55	1,018.50	2,206.75	26,481.00	1,164.00	2,522.00	30,264.00
CB/17/09	14.93	1,045.10	2,264.38	27,172.60	1,194.40	2,587.87	31,054.40
CB/17/10	15.31	1,071.70	2,322.02	27,864.20	1,224.80	2,653.73	31,844.80
							
CB/18/01	12.85	899.50	1,948.92	23,387.00	1,028.00	2,227.33	26,728.00
CB/18/02	13.15	920.50	1,994.42	23,933.00	1,052.00	2,279.33	27,352.00
CB/18/03	13.52	946.40	2,050.53	24,606.40	1,081.60	2,343.47	28,121.60
CB/18/04	13.81	966.70	2,094.52	25,134.20	1,104.80	2,393.73	28,724.80
CB/18/05	14.18	992.60	2,150.63	25,807.60	1,134.40	2,457.87	29,494.40
CB/18/06	14.55	1,018.50	2,206.75	26,481.00	1,164.00	2,522.00	30,264.00
CB/18/07	14.93	1,045.10	2,264.38	27,172.60	1,194.40	2,587.87	31,054.40
CB/18/08	15.31	1,071.70	2,322.02	27,864.20	1,224.80	2,653.73	31,844.80
CB/18/09	15.65	1,095.50	2,373.58	28,483.00	1,252.00	2,712.67	32,552.00
CB/18/10	16.01	1,120.70	2,428.18	29,138.20	1,280.80	2,775.07	33,300.80
							
Appendix C17
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CB
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CB/19/01	13.52	946.40	2,050.53	24,606.40	1,081.60	2,343.47	28,121.60
CB/19/02	13.81	966.70	2,094.52	25,134.20	1,104.80	2,393.73	28,724.80
CB/19/03	14.18	992.60	2,150.63	25,807.60	1,134.40	2,457.87	29,494.40
CB/19/04	14.55	1,018.50	2,206.75	26,481.00	1,164.00	2,522.00	30,264.00
CB/19/05	14.93	1,045.10	2,264.38	27,172.60	1,194.40	2,587.87	31,054.40
CB/19/06	15.31	1,071.70	2,322.02	27,864.20	1,224.80	2,653.73	31,844.80
CB/19/07	15.65	1,095.50	2,373.58	28,483.00	1,252.00	2,712.67	32,552.00
CB/19/08	16.01	1,120.70	2,428.18	29,138.20	1,280.80	2,775.07	33,300.80
CB/19/09	16.45	1,151.50	2,494.92	29,939.00	1,316.00	2,851.33	34,216.00
CB/19/10	16.83	1,178.10	2,552.55	30,630.60	1,346.40	2,917.20	35,006.40
							
CB/20/01	14.18	992.60	2,150.63	25,807.60	1,134.40	2,457.87	29,494.40
CB/20/02	14.55	1,018.50	2,206.75	26,481.00	1,164.00	2,522.00	30,264.00
CB/20/03	14.93	1,045.10	2,264.38	27,172.60	1,194.40	2,587.87	31,054.40
CB/20/04	15.31	1,071.70	2,322.02	27,864.20	1,224.80	2,653.73	31,844.80
CB/20/05	15.65	1,095.50	2,373.58	28,483.00	1,252.00	2,712.67	32,552.00
CB/20/06	16.01	1,120.70	2,428.18	29,138.20	1,280.80	2,775.07	33,300.80
CB/20/07	16.45	1,151.50	2,494.92	29,939.00	1,316.00	2,851.33	34,216.00
CB/20/08	16.83	1,178.10	2,552.55	30,630.60	1,346.40	2,917.20	35,006.40
CB/20/09	17.29	1,210.30	2,622.32	31,467.80	1,383.20	2,996.93	35,963.20
CB/20/10	17.71	1,239.70	2,686.02	32,232.20	1,416.80	3,069.73	36,836.80
							
CB/21/01	14.93	1,045.10	2,264.38	27,172.60	1,194.40	2,587.87	31,054.40
CB/21/02	15.31	1,071.70	2,322.02	27,864.20	1,224.80	2,653.73	31,844.80
CB/21/03	15.65	1,095.50	2,373.58	28,483.00	1,252.00	2,712.67	32,552.00
CB/21/04	16.01	1,120.70	2,428.18	29,138.20	1,280.80	2,775.07	33,300.80
CB/21/05	16.45	1,151.50	2,494.92	29,939.00	1,316.00	2,851.33	34,216.00
CB/21/06	16.83	1,178.10	2,552.55	30,630.60	1,346.40	2,917.20	35,006.40
CB/21/07	17.29	1,210.30	2,622.32	31,467.80	1,383.20	2,996.93	35,963.20
CB/21/08	17.71	1,239.70	2,686.02	32,232.20	1,416.80	3,069.73	36,836.80
CB/21/09	18.15	1,270.50	2,752.75	33,033.00	1,452.00	3,146.00	37,752.00
CB/21/10	18.57	1,299.90	2,816.45	33,797.40	1,485.60	3,218.80	38,625.60
							
CB/22/01	15.65	1,095.50	2,373.58	28,483.00	1,252.00	2,712.67	32,552.00
CB/22/02	16.01	1,120.70	2,428.18	29,138.20	1,280.80	2,775.07	33,300.80
CB/22/03	16.45	1,151.50	2,494.92	29,939.00	1,316.00	2,851.33	34,216.00
CB/22/04	16.83	1,178.10	2,552.55	30,630.60	1,346.40	2,917.20	35,006.40
CB/22/05	17.29	1,210.30	2,622.32	31,467.80	1,383.20	2,996.93	35,963.20
CB/22/06	17.71	1,239.70	2,686.02	32,232.20	1,416.80	3,069.73	36,836.80
CB/22/07	18.15	1,270.50	2,752.75	33,033.00	1,452.00	3,146.00	37,752.00
CB/22/08	18.57	1,299.90	2,816.45	33,797.40	1,485.60	3,218.80	38,625.60
CB/22/09	19.10	1,337.00	2,896.83	34,762.00	1,528.00	3,310.67	39,728.00
CB/22/10	19.52	1,366.40	2,960.53	35,526.40	1,561.60	3,383.47	40,601.60
							
Appendix C18
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CB
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CB/23/01	16.45	1,151.50	2,494.92	29,939.00	1,316.00	2,851.33	34,216.00
CB/23/02	16.83	1,178.10	2,552.55	30,630.60	1,346.40	2,917.20	35,006.40
CB/23/03	17.29	1,210.30	2,622.32	31,467.80	1,383.20	2,996.93	35,963.20
CB/23/04	17.71	1,239.70	2,686.02	_ 32,232.20	_ 1,416.80	3,069.73	36,836.80
CB/23/05	18.15	1,270.50	2,752.75	33,033.00	1,452.00	3,146.00	37,752.00
CB/23/06	18.57	1,299.90	2,816.45	33,797.40	1,485.60	3,218.80	38,625.60
CB/23/07	19.10	1,337.00	2,896.83	34,762.00	1,528.00	3,310.67	39,728.00
CB/23/08	19.52	1,366.40	2,960.53	35,526.40	1,561.60	3,383.47	40,601.60
CB/23/09	20.02	1,401.40	3,036.37	36,436.40	1,601.60	3,470.13	41,641.60
CB/23/10	20.56	1,439.20	3,118.27	37,419.20	1,644.80	3,563.73	42,764.80
							
CB/24/01	17.29	1,210.30	2,622.32	31,467.80	1,383.20	2,996.93	35,963.20
CB/24/02	17.71	1,239.70	2,686.02	32,232.20	1,416.80	3,069.73	36,836.80
CB/24/03	18.15	1,270.50	2,752.75	33,033.00	1,452.00	3,146.00	37,752.00
CB/24/04	18.57	1,299.90	2,816.45	33,797.40	1,485.60	3,218.80	38,625.60
CB/24/05	19.10	1,337.00	2,896.83	34,762.00	1,528.00	3,310.67	39,728.00
CB/24/06	19.52	1,366.40	2,960.53	35,526.40	1,561.60	3,383.47	40,601.60
CB/24/07	20.02	1,401.40	3,036.37	36,436.40	1,601.60	3,470.13	41,641.60
CB/24/08	20.56	1,439.20	3,118.27	37,419.20	1,644.80	3,563.73	42,764.80
CB/24/09	21.05	1,473.50	3,192.58	38,311.00	1,684.00	3,648.67	43,784.00
CB/24/10	21.52	1,506.40	3,263.87	39,166.40	1,721.60	3,730.13	44,761.60
							
CB/25/01	18.15	1,270.50	2,752.75	33,033.00	1,452.00	3,146.00	37,752.00
CB/25/02	18.57	1,299.90	2,816.45	33,797.40	1,485.60	3,218.80	38,625.60
CB/25/03	19.10	1,337.00	2,896.83	34,762.00	1,528.00	3,310.67	39,728.00
CB/25/04	19.52	1,366.40	2,960.53	35,526.40	1,561.60	3,383.47	40,601.60
CB/25/05	20.02	1,401.40	3,036.37	36,436.40	1,601.60	3,470.13	41,641.60
CB/25/06	20.56	1,439.20	3,118.27	37,419.20	1,644.80	3,563.73	42,764.80
CB/25/07	21.05	1,473.50	3,192.58	38,311.00		1,684.00	3,648.67	43,784.00
CB/25/08 		21.52	1,506.40	3,263.87	39,166.40	1,721.60		3J30.13	44,761.60
CB/25/09		22.08	1,545.60	3,348.80	40,185.60	1,766.40	3,827.20	45,926.40
CB/25/10		22.68	1,587.60	3,439.80	41,277.60		1,814,40		3,931.20		47,174.40
							
CB/26/01	19.10	1,337.00	2,896.83	34,762.00	1,528 JOO	3,310.67	39,728.00
CB/26/02	19.52	1,366.40,	2,960.53	35,526.40	1,561.60	3,383.47	40,601.60
CB/26/03	20.02	1,401.40	3,036.37	36,436.40	1,601.60	3,470.13	41,641.60
CB/26/04	20.56	1,439.20	3,118.27	37,419.20	1,644.80	3,563.73	42,764.80
CB/26/05	21.05	1,473.50	3,192.58	38,311.00	1,684.00	3,648.67	43,784.00
CB/26/06	21.52	1,506.40	3,263.87	39,166.40	1,721.60	3,730.13	44,761.60
CB/26/07	22.08	1,545.60	3,348.80	40,185.60	1,766.40	3,827.20	45,926.40
CB/26/08	22.68	1,587.60	3,439.80	41,277.60	1,814.40	3,931.20	47,174.40
CB/26/09	23.28	1,629.60	3,530.80	42,369.60	1,862.40	4,035.20	48,422.40
CB/26/10	23 83	1,668.10	3,614.22	43,370.60	1,906.40	4,130.53	49,566.40
							
Appendix C19
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CB
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CB/27/01	20.02	1,401.40	3,036.37	36,436.40	1,601.60	3,470.13	41,641.60
CB/27/02	20.56	1,439.20	3,118.27	37,419.20	1,644.80	3,563.73	42,764.80
CB/27/03	21.05	1,473.50	3,192.58	38,311.00	1,684.00	3,648.67	43,784.00
CB/27/04	21.52	1,506.40	3,263.87	39,166.40	1,721.60	3,730.13	44,761.60
CB/27/05	22.08	1,545.60	3,348.80	40,185.60	1,766.40	3,827.20	45,926.40
CB/27/06	22.68	1,587.60	3,439.80	41,277.60	1,814.40	3,931.20	47,174.40
CB/27/07	23.28	1,629.60	3,530.80	42,369.60	1,862.40	4,035.20	48,422.40
CB/27/08	23.83	1,668.10	3,614.22	43,370.60	1,906.40	4,130.53	49,566.40
CB/27/09	24.40	1,708.00	3,700.67	44,408.00	1,952.00	4,229.33	50,752.00
CB/27/10	25.00	1,750.00	3,791.67	45,500.00	2,000.00	4,333.33	52,000.00
							
CB/28/01	21.05	1,473.50	3,192.58	38,311.00	1,684.00	3,648.67	43,784.00
CB/28/02	21.52	1,506.40	3,263.87	39,166.40	1,721.60	3,730.13	44,761.60
CB/28/03	22.08	1,545.60	3,348.80	40,185.60	1,766.40	3,827.20	45,926.40
CB/28/04	22.68	1,587.60	3,439.80	41,277.60	1,814.40	3,931.20	47,174.40
CB/28/05	23.28	1,629.60	3,530.80	42,369.60	1,862.40	4,035.20	48,422.40
CB/28/06	23.83	1,668.10	3,614.22	43,370.60	1,906.40	4,130.53	49,566.40
CB/28/07	24.40	1,708.00	3,700.67	44,408.00	1,952.00	4,229.33	50,752.00
CB/28/08	25.00	1,750.00	3,791.67	45,500.00	2,000.00	4,333.33	52,000.00
CB/28/09	25.63	1,794.10	3,887.22	46,646.60	2,050.40	4,442.53	53,310.40
CB/28/10	26.28	1,839.60	3,985.80	47,829.60	2,102.40	4,555.20	54,662.40
							
CB/29/01	22.08	1,545.60	3,348.80	40,185.60	1,766.40	3,827.20	45,926.40
CB/29/02	22.68	1,587.60	3,439.80	41,277.60	1,814.40	3,931.20	47,174.40
CB/29/03	23.28	1,629.60	3,530.80	42,369.60	1,862.40	4,035.20	48,422.40
CB/29/04	23.83	1,668.10	3,614.22	43,370.60	1,906.40	4,130.53	49,566.40
CB/29/05	24.40	1,708.00	3,700.67	44,408.00	1,952.00	4,229.33	50,752.00
CB/29/06	25.00	1,750.00	3,791.67	45,500.00	2,000.00	4,333.33	52,000.00
CB/29/07	25.63	1,794.10	3,887.22	46,646.60	2,050.40	4,442.53	53,310.40
CB/29/08	26.28	1,839.60	3,985.80	47,829.60	2,102.40	4,555.20	54,662.40
CB/29/09	26.95	1,886.50	4,087.42	49,049.00	2,156.00	4,671.33	56,056.00
CB/29/10	27.59	1,931.30	4,184.48	50,213.80	2,207.20	4,782.27	57,387.20
							
CB/30/01		23.28	1,629.60	3,530.80	42,369.60	1,862.40	4,035.20	48,422.40
CB/30/02	23.83	1,668.10	3,614.22	43,370.60	1,906.40	4,130.53	49,566.40
CB/30/03	24.40	1,708.00	3,700.67	44,408.00	1,952.00	4,229.33	50,752.00
CB/30/04	25.00	1,750.00	3,791.67	45,500.00	2,000.00	4,333.33	52,000.00
CB/30/05	25.63	1,794.10	3,887.22	46,646.60	2,050.40	4,442.53	53,310.40
CB/30/06	26.28	1,839.60	3,985.80	47,829.60	2,102.40	4,555.20	54,662.40
CB/30/07	26.95	1,886.50	4,087.42	49,049.00	2,156.00	4,671.33	56,056.00
CB/30/08	27.59	1,931.30	4,184.48	50,213.80	2,207.20	4,782.27	57,387.20
CB/30/09	28.27	1,978.90	4,287.62	51,451.40	2,261.60	4,900.13	58,801.60
CB/30/10	29.03	2,032.10	4,402.88	52,834.60	2,322.40	5,031.87	60,382.40
							
Appendix C20
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING	06/16/2004
SCHEDULE - CB
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CB/31/01	24.40	1,708.00	3,700.67	44,408.00	1,952.00	4,229.33	50,752.00
CB/31/02	25.00	1,750.00	3,791.67	45,500.00	2,000.00	4,333.33	52,000.00
CB/31/03	25.63	1,794.10	3,887.22	46,646.60	2,050.40	4,442.53	53,310.40
CB/31/04	26.28	1,839.60	3,985.80	47,829.60	2,102.40	4,555.20	54,662.40
CB/31/05	26.95	1,886.50	4,087.42	49,049.00	2,156.00	4,671.33	56,056.00
CB/31/06	27.59	1,931.30	4,184.48	50,213.80	2,207.20	4,782.27	57,387.20
CB/31/07	28.27	1,978.90	4,287.62	51,451.40	2,261.60	4,900.13	58,801.60
CB/31/08	29.03	2,032.10	4,402.88	52,834.60	2,322.40	5,031.87	60,382.40
CB/31/09	29.75	2,082.50	4,512.08	54,145.00	2,380.00	5,156.67	61,880.00
CB/31/10	30.52	2,136.40	4,628.87	55,546.40	2,441.60	5,290.13	63,481.60
							
CB/32/01	25.63	1,794.10	3,887.22	46,646.60	2,050.40	4,442.53	53,310.40
CB/32/02	26.28	1,839.60	3,985.80	47,829.60	2,102.40	4,555.20	54,662.40
CB/32/03	26.95	1,886.50	4,087.42	49,049.00	2,156.00	4,671.33	56,056.00
CB/32/04	27.59	1,931.30	4,184.48	50,213.80	2,207.20	4,782.27	57,387.20
CB/32/05	28.27	1,978.90	4,287.62	51,451.40	2,261.60	4,900.13	58,801.60
CB/32/06	29.03	2,032.10	4,402.88	52,834.60	2,322.40	5,031.87	60,382.40
CB/32/07	29.75	2,082.50	4,512.08	54,145.00	2,380.00	5,156.67	61,880.00
CB/32/08	30.52	2,136.40	4,628.87	55,546.40	2,441.60	5,290.13	63,481.60
CB/32/09	31.26	2,188.20	4,741.10	56,893.20	2,500.80	5,418.40	65,020.80
CB/32/10	32.08	2,245.60	4,865.47	58,385.60	2,566.40	5,560.53	66,726.40
							
CB/33/01	26.95	1,886.50	4,087.42	49,049.00	2,156.00	4,671.33	56,056.00
CB/33/02	27.59	1,931.30	4,184.48	50,213.80	2,207.20	4,782.27	57,387.20
CB/33/03	28.27	1,978.90	4,287.62	51,451.40	2,261.60	4,900.13	58,801.60
CB/33/04	29.03	2,032.10	4,402.88	52,834.60	2,322.40	5,031.87	60,382.40
CB/33/05	29.75	2,082.50	4,512.08	54,145.00	2,380.00	5,156.67	61,880.00
CB/33/06	30.52	2,136.40	4,628.87	55,546.40	2,441.60	5,290.13	63,481.60
CB/33/07	31.26	2,188.20	4,741.10	56,893.20	2,500.80	5,418.40	65,020.80
CB/33/08	32.08	2,245.60	4,865.47	58,385.60	2,566.40	5,560.53	66,726.40
CB/33/09	32.87	2,300.90	4,985.28	59,823.40	2,629.60	5,697.47	68,369.60
CB/33/10	33.73	2,361.10	5,115.72	61,388.60	2,698.40	5,846.53	70,158.40
							
CB/34/01	28.27	1,978.90	4,287.62	51,451.40	2,261.60	4,900.13	58,801.60
CB/34/02	29.03	2,032.10	4,402.88	52,834.60	2,322.40	5,031.87	60,382.40
CB/34/03	29.75	2,082.50	4,512.08	54,145.00	2,380.00	5,156.67	61,880.00
CB/34/04	30.52	2,136.40	4,628.87	55,546.40	2,441.60	5,290.13	63,481.60
CB/34/05	31.26	2,188.20	4,741.10	56,893.20	2,500.80	5,418.40	65,020.80
CB/34/06	32.08	2,245.60	4,865.47	58,385.60	2,566.40	5,560.53	66,726.40
CB/34/07	32.87	2,300.90	4,985.28	59,823.40	2,629.60	5,697.47	68,369.60
CB/34/08	33.73	2,361.10	5,115.72	61,388.60	2,698.40	5,846.53	70,158.40
CB/34/09	34.59	2,421.30	5,246.15	62,953.80	2,767.20	5,995.60	71,947.20
CB/34/10	35.46	2,482.20	5,378.10	64,537.20	2,836.80	6,146.40	73,756.80
							
Appendix C21
HUMAN RESOURCES REPORTING
SCHEDULE - CB
06/26/2004 - 06/24/2005
06/16/2004
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
CB/35/01	29.75	2,082.50	4,512.08	54,145.00	2,380.00	5,156.67	61,880.00
CB/35/02	30.52	2,136.40	4,628.87	55,546.40	2,441.60	5,290.13	63,481.60
CB/35/03	31.26	2,188.20	4,741.10	56,893.20	2,500.80	5,418.40	65,020.80
CB/35/04	32.08	2,245.60	4,865.47	58,385.60	2,566.40	5,560.53	66,726.40
CB/35/05	32.87	2,300.90	4,985.28	59,823.40	2,629.60	5,697.47	68,369.60
CB/35/06	33.73	2,361.10	5,115.72	61,388.60	2,698.40	5,846.53	70,158.40
CB/35/07	34.59	2,421.30	5,246.15	62,953.80	2,767.20	5,995.60	71,947.20
CB/35/08	35.46	2,482.20	5,378.10	64,537.20	2,836.80	6,146.40	73,756.80
CB/35/09	36.33	2,543.10	5,510.05	66,120.60	2,906.40	6,297.20	75,566.40
CB/35/10	37.26	2,608.20	5,651.10	67,813.20	2,980.80	6,458.40	77,500.80
							
Appendix C22
APPENDIX C
SEPARATE SCHEDULE CLASSES SALARY SCHEDULE "B"
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Special Assistant -	SA	$13.04	$912.80
Severely Mentally &	SB	13.35	934.50
Physically Challenged	SC	13.68	957.60
	SD	14.07	984.90
	SE	14.37	1,005.90
	SF	14.73	1,031.10
	SG	15.13	1,059.10
	SH	15.50	1,085.00
	SI	15.89	1,112.30
	SJ	16.31	1,141.70
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Teacher Assistant	SA	$12.37	$865.90
	SB	12.66	886.20
	SC	13.04	912.80
	SD	13.35	934.50
	SE	13.68	957.60
	SF	14.07	984.90
	SG	14.37	1,005.90
	SH	14.73	1,031.10
	SI	15.13	1,059.10
	SJ	15.50	1,085.00
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Computer Assistant	SA	$12.37	$865.90
	SB	12.66	886.20
	SC	13.04	912.80
	SD	13.35	934.50
	SE	13.68	957.60
	SF	14.07	984.90
	SG	14.37	1,005.90
	SH	14.73	1,031.10
	SI	15.13	1,059.10
	SJ	15.50	1,085.00
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Clinical Assistant	SA	$12.37	$865.90
	SB	12.66	886.20
	SC	13.04	912.80
	SD	13.35	934.50
	SE	13.68	957.60
	SF	14.07	984.90
	SG	14.37	1,005.90
	SH	14.73	1,031.10
Appendix C23
APPENDIX C
SEPARATE SCHEDULE CLASSES SALARY SCHEDULE "B"
	Range	Step	Hourly
Bus Driver	BD	BA	$11.72
	BD	BB	12.07
	BD	BC	12.46
	BD	BD	12.78
	BD	BE	13.09
	BD	BF	13.43
	BD	BG	13.75
	BD	BH	14.11
	BD	Bl	14.37
	BD	BJ	14.79
Bus Driver/Special Education	BD/SE	BA	12.46
	BD/SE	BB	12.78
	BD/SE	BC	13.09
	BD/SE	BD	13.43
	BD/SE	BE	13.75
	BD/SE	BF	14.11
	BD/SE	BG	14.37
	BD/SE	BH	14.79
	BD/SE	Bl	15.16
	BD/SE	BJ	15.50
Bus Driver/lnstructor-Evaluator	BD/IE	BA	13.09
	BD/IE	BB	13.43
	BD/IE	BC	13.75
	BD/IE	BD	14.11
	BD/IE	BE	14.37
	BD/IE	BF	14.79
	BD/IE	BG	15.16
	BD/IE	BH	15.50
	BD/IE	Bl	15.86
	BD/IE	BJ	16.33
Appendix C24
APPENDIX D
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT Personnel Division
CLASSIFIED GRIEVANCE FORM
Name (Please Print)	Grievant’s Signataure	Date Filed
School Location
Position
On Behalf of the Assn.	Date Received
TIME LIMIT
MONTH/DAY/YEAR
On what date did you become aware of the act or condition on which this grievance is based?
STEP ONE: SUPERVISOR
On what date(s) did you meet and discuss this grievance with your supervisor/administrator?
On what date did you notice your supervisor/administrator you were going to file a grievance?
STEP TWO: DEPARTMENT HEAD
a.	Grievant’s Statement
On page 3 or on an attached page, state the nature of the grievance including any policy, regulation, procedure, or practice which is the subject of the grievance. Also state the relief you are seeking.
b.	Department Head Decision
Date grievance received:
Meeting date established within eight (8) days of receipt of request.
Date decision rendered (recommended decision be rendered within ten (10) days after meeting).
Appendix D
-1-
c.	Grievant’s Response
MONTH/DAY/YEAR
Please sign and date below if Step Two decision is acceptable.
Signature
STEP THREE: SUPERINTENDENT/DE SIGNEE
a.	Grievant’s Appeal
 Please initial here and forward to the Classified Personnel Services Coordinator if you wish to appeal to the Superintendent Level. Your appeal MUST be filed within five (5) working days after receipt of the decision. Attach written response, if desired. Please enter the date this appeal is provided to the Personnel Division:
Signature
b.	Superintendent/Designee’s Decision
Date grievance received:
Meeting date established within eight (8) days of receipt of request.
Date decision rendered (must be within ten (10) working days after the hearing date):
c.	Grievant’s Response
Please sign and date below if Step Three decision is acceptable.
Signature
-2-
STEP FOUR: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
MONTH/DAY/YEAR
a.	Grievant’s/Association’s Appeal
Please initial here and forward to the Classified Personnel Services Coordinator if you wish to appeal to the Board of Trustees. Your appeal will be scheduled with the Board of Trustees at the next regular meeting. Attach written response, if desired. Please enter the date this appeal is provided to the Personnel Division:
Signature	Date
Signature of Associate Representative
Date
6/99
c: doc s. gre vfm. mj
TEXT:
-3-
TEXT(Continued)____________________________________________________________________
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT Personnel Division
CLASSIFIED COMPLAINT FORM
Name (Please Print)	Complainant’s Signataure	Date Filed
School Location
Position
On Behalf of the Assn.	Date Received
TIME LIMIT
MONTH/DAY/YEAR
On what date did you become aware of the act or condition on which this complaint is based?
STEP ONE: SUPERVISOR
On what date(s) did you meet and discuss this complaint with your supervisor/administrator?
On what date did you notice your supervisor/administrator you were going to file a complaint?
STEP TWO: DEPARTMENT HEAD
a.	Complainant’s Statement
On page 3 or an attached page, state the nature of the complaint including any policy, regulation, procedure, or practice which is the subject of the complaint. Also state the relief you are seeking.
b.	Department Head Decision
Date complaint received:
Meeting date established within eight (8) days of receipt of request.
Date decision rendered (recommended decision be rendered within ten (10) days after meeting).
Appendix D
-1-
c.	Complainant’s Response
MONTH/DAY/YEAR
Please sign and date below if Step Two decision is acceptable.
Signature
STEP THREE: SUPERINTENDENT/DESIGNEE
a.	Complainant’s Appeal
Please initial here and forward to the Classified Personnel Services Coordinator if you wish to appeal to the Superintendent Level. Your appeal MUST be filed within five (5) working days after receipt of the decision. Attach written response, if desired. Please enter the date this appeal is provided to the Personnel Division:
Signature
b.	Superintendent/Designee’s Decision
Date complaint received:
Meeting date established within eight (8) days of receipt of request.
Date decision rendered (must be within ten (10) working days after the hearing date):
c.	Complainant’s Response
Please sign and date if Step Three decision is acceptable.
Signature
-2-
STEP FOUR: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
a. Complainant’s/Association’s Appeal
MONTH/DAY/YEAR
 Please initial here and forward to the Classified Personnel Services Coordinator if you wish to appeal to the Board of Trustees. Your appeal will be scheduled with the Board of Trustees at the next regular meeting. Attach written response, if desired. Please enter the date this appeal is provided to the Personnel Division:
Signature
Date
Signature of Association Representative
Date
6/99
c:docs.grevfm.mj
TEXT:
-3-
TEXT (Continued)_____________________________________________________________________________
-4-
APPENDIX E
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
CPR (2003)
Effective March 29, 2004, the Washoe County School District shall provide CPR training and the cost of the CPR certificate for all special education and physical education teacher aides and teacher assistants for whom CPR certification is required by the District. (2003)
Appendix E