CONTRACT
BETWEEN
THE SCHOOL BOARD OF VOLUSIA COUNTY
AND
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY, AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES
COUNCIL 79, LOCAL 850
2003-2006
Effective July 1, 2003
Through the individual commitment of all, our students will graduate with the knowledge, skills, and values necessary to be successful contributors to our democratic society.
i
Table of Contents
Agreement..................................................................1
Preamble...................................................................1
Article 1Recognition.......................................................1
Article II	Dues Checkoff...................................................1
Article III	No Discrimination..............................................3
Article IV	Union Representation & Activities..............................3
Article V	Grievance Procedure.............................................6
Article VI	Discipline & Discharge........................................10
Article VII	No Strike.....................................................11
Article VIII	Prevailing Rights............................................11
Article IX	Management Rights.............................................11
Article X	Employee Protection............................................11
Article XI	Supervisor/Employee Relations.................................12
Article XII	Work Rules....................................................12
Article XIII	Job Assignments..............................................12
Article XIV	Seniority....................................................13
Article XV	Layoff and Recall.............................................14
Article XVI	Days and Hours ..............................................16
Article XVII	Vacancies...................................................18
Article XVIII	Safety.....................................................19
Article XIX	Leave Provisions ............................................19
Article XX	Family & Medical Leave Act	..................................26
Article XXI	Salary and Fringe Benefits...................................27
Article XXII	Uniform and Clothing Allowance .............................31
Article XXIII	Evaluations ...............................................32
Article XXIV	Miscellaneous Agreements...................................32
Article XXV	Miscellaneous Agreements (Emergencies)......................33
Article XXVI	Miscellaneous Agreements	(Transportation)..................34
Article XXVII	Savings Clause ...........................................37
Article XXVIII	Duration..................................................38
Appendix A - Occupational Groups
Appendix B - Salary Schedule
Appendix C - School Way Cafe Institute Assistant and Manager Career Ladder
Appendix D - Pay for Skills Program
Appendix E - Sick Leave Bank
Appendix F - Florida Statute 231.291 - Personnel Files
Appendix G - Volusia County School Board Policy Number 412 - Employee Personnel Files
Appendix H - Memorandum of Understanding - Career Ladder
i
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is between The School Board of Volusia County, hereinafter called the Board, and AFSCME, AFL-CIO, Council 79, Local 850, hereinafter call the Union, representing the employees in the non-instructional unit, as certified by PERC on January 31, 1980, certificate #487.
PREAMBLE
It is the intent of The School Board of Volusia County, Florida, that this Agreement will outline procedures to be utilized in the negotiation process for the resolution of issues concerning wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment.
ARTICLE I RECOGNITION
Section 1	- Inclusions
A.	The Volusia County School Board hereby recognizes the Florida State Employees Council No. 79, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO Local 850 as the exclusive representative for the purposes of collective bargaining with respect to wages, hours, and terms and conditions of employment for all employees included in the Non-Instructional bargaining unit.
B.	The bargaining unit for which this recognition is accorded is as defined in the certification issued by the Florida Public Employees Relations Commission on January 31, 1980 (Order No. RC-78-011).
C.	This certification includes all regular full-time and regular part-time employees in the classifications and positions listed in PERC Order No. RC-78-011.
Section 2	- Exclusions
The Board recognizes the integrity of this Florida Public Employees Relations Commission (PERC) certified Non-Instructional bargaining unit, and will not use appointments of temporary employees, emergency employees and substitute employees for the purpose of eroding the bargaining unit.
Section 3	- New Positions/Classes
When a new position is created in a classification that is included in the bargaining unit and the Board believes that the position should be excluded from the unit, the Union will be notified by being given a copy of the Board's application to PERC seeking the exclusion of the position from the unit.
ARTICLE II
DUES CHECKOFF
Section 1	- Deductions
A.	During the term of the Agreement, the Board agrees to deduct union membership dues and uniform assessments, if any, in an amount established by the Union and certified in writing by an accredited officer of the Union to the Board, from the pay of those
1
employees in the bargaining unit who individually make such request on a written checkoff authorization form provided by the Union. Such deductions will be made by the Board when other payroll deductions are made and will begin with the pay for the first full pay period following receipt of the authorization by the Board. The Union shall advise the Board of any uniform assessments or increase in dues in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to its effective date.
B.	This Article applies only to the deduction of membership dues and uniform assessments, if any, and shall not apply to the collection of any fines, penalties, or special assessments.
Section 2	- Remittance
A.	Deductions of dues and uniform assessments, if any, shall be remitted exclusively to a duly authorized representative, as designated in writing by the Union, to the Board on a monthly cycle along with a list containing names, social security numbers, and amount deducted of the employees for whom the remittance is made.
B.	The list and deductions shall be forwarded to the Union as soon as practical after deductions are made.
Section 3	- Insufficient Pay for Deduction
In the event an employee's salary earnings within any pay period, after deductions for withholding, Social Security, retirement, health insurance, and other priority deductions, are not sufficient to cover dues and any uniform assessments, it will be the responsibility of the Union to collect its dues and uniform assessments for that pay period directly from the employee.
Section 4	- Termination of Deduction
Deductions for Union dues and/or uniform assessments shall continue until either: 1) revoked by the employee by providing the Board and the Secretary-Treasurer of Local 850 with thirty (30) days written notice that he is terminating the prior checkoff authorization, 2) the expiration of the term of this collective bargaining agreement, 3) the termination of employment, or 4) the promotion or demotion of the authorizing employee out of this bargaining unit.
Section 5	- Indemnification
The Union shall indemnify, defend and hold the Board, its officers, officials, agents and employees, harmless against any claim, demand, suit or liability (monetary or otherwise) and for all legal costs arising from any action taken or not taken by the Board, its officials, agents and employees in complying with this Article which are in excess of the amount of dues and/or uniform assessments which the Board or its agencies have agreed to deduct.
Section 6	- Exceptions
The Board will not deduct any Union fines, penalties, or special assessments from the pay of any employee.
2
Section 7	- Dues Checkoff Authorization Form
A.	The Dues Checkoff Authorization Form supplied by the Union shall be used by the bargaining unit employees who wish to initiate dues deduction. Checkoff Authorizations shall contain the following information: Name, Social Security Number and facility in which employed. The form submitted to the Board's payroll office shall have the original signature of the authorizing employee.
B.	Changes in the Authorization Forms required by (A) above will not affect deductions authorized by forms that the parties have previously agreed to. A copy of the Authorization Form described in (A) above is contained in the Appendix of this Agreement.
Section 8	- Modified School Calendar
For schools that are changed from the traditional calendar to modified calendar, single "Blue" track, and where the number of days worked by the employee has not increased:
A.	the payroll periods shall be adjusted from 21 pay periods to 24 pay periods; and
B.	dues for members of the Union shall only be deducted from the first 21 periods.
ARTICLE III
NO DISCRIMINATION
Section 1	- Claims
Any claim of discrimination by an employee or the Union against the Board, its officials or representatives shall be subject to the methods of review prescribed by law or rules and regulations having the force and effect of law.
Section 2	- Union Membership
Neither the Board nor the Union shall interfere with the rights of employees covered by this Agreement to become or refrain from becoming members of the Union or will either discriminate against such employees because of Union membership or non-membership.
Section 3	- Male Gender Reference
All references in this Agreement to employees of the male gender are used for convenience only and shall be construed to include both male and female employees.
ARTICLE IV
UNION REPRESENTATION AND ACTIVITIES
Section 1	- Representation
A.	From employees in the bargaining unit, the Union shall select a reasonable number of union stewards, shall furnish to the Board and keep up-to-date a list of all such employees authorized to act as stewards. In addition, the Union shall furnish to the Board and keep up-to-date a list of Union Staff Representatives and Local 850 Officers.
3
B.	Whenever Union representation is requested by an employee, the representative shall be so selected and designated by the Union.
C.	Stewards who are designated by the Union shall be selected according to the following general guidelines:
1.	One (1) steward at each facility or work location which has a supervisor who has the authority to settle grievances.
2.	Where more than one shift is required there may be one (1) steward per shift.
3.	If the number of employees on a particular shift, or in a work location, exceeds
fifty (50) employees, an additional steward may be selected; however, when selecting stewards at such work location, consideration shall be given to restricted areas, number of work units, and other factors unique to that installation or facility.
4.	After having requested and been given prior approval from the Principal or Worksite Supervisor, the steward or a local union officer will be allowed time to represent bargaining unit members at grievance conferences with the supervisor during regular work hours without loss of pay or benefits. The steward or local union officer will secure approval of the Principal or Worksite Supervisor in the area where the grievance is to be investigated and will conduct the investigation in a way that does not interfere with Board operations.
5.	Stewards, Local officers, and other Local representatives shall have permission to examine an employee's file as permitted by Florida Statutes.
Section 2	- Bulletin Boards
A.	Where Board controlled bulletin boards are available, the Board agrees to provide space on such bulletin boards for Union use. Where bulletin boards are not available, the Board agrees to provide such boards.
B.	Posting of Union literature shall be confined to Union bulletin boards, and these boards shall be used for the following notices:
1.	Recreational and social affairs of the	Union
2.	Union meetings
3.	Union elections
4.	Reports of Union committees
5.	Union benefit programs
6.	Current Union contract
7.	Training and Educational opportunities
4
8.	The postings referenced above must be removed by the authorized Union Representative five days after the date of posting.
C.	Postings must be dated and bear the signature of an authorized Union Representative.
D.	Nothing in the contract will be construed to authorize Union distribution of any
material or information which libels School Board members or employees.
Section 3	- Employee Lists
The Board will upon timely written request provide the Union a listing giving the name, home address and home telephone number on file, classification title, and gross salary for each employee covered by the bargaining unit. Such list will cover the fiscal quarter in which they are requested. Any and all costs incidental to the production of such list will be borne by the bargaining unit.
Section 4	- Class Specifications/Rules
The Board will provide the Union Staff Representative and Local 850 Union President each with a copy of classification specifications and Board Personnel Rules and Regulations which affect employees within the bargaining unit.
Section 5	- Representative Access
The Board agrees that an accredited representative of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, whether Local Union representatives, District Council Representatives, or International Representatives shall have access to the premises of the Board on the same basis as they are available to the general public. Access to premises shall be during working hours and shall be relative to the administration of this agreement. Access to employees will be during the non-working hours of the employee.
Section 6	- Consultation
A.	In order to provide a means of continuing communication between the parties and upon request of either the Board or the Union Staff Representative, the Superintendent and/or his designated representative(s) and not more than eight (8) representatives of the Union shall meet and consult monthly, the time and place to be designated by the Board.
B.	The purpose of such consultation meetings shall be to discuss matters relating to the administration of this Agreement and matters covered by this Agreement. It is understood that these meetings shall not be used for the purpose of discussing pending grievances or for negotiation purposes. The parties shall exchange agenda indicating the matters they wish to discuss no later than seven (7) days prior to the scheduled meeting. Any agreement reached between the parties at consultation meetings shall be reduced to writing and a copy shall be provided to each party.
Section 7	- School Board Courier Systems
A.	The Union shall have access to use the School Board Courier System of distributing information to employees of the bargaining unit. The Union agrees to pay any charges assessed by the Postal Authorities.
5
B.	The school mail system will not be used by the Union to distribute materials to employees which libels the Board members or its employees.
Section 8	- Use of Facilities
The Union and its representatives shall have the right to use school buildings for meetings and workshops other than during school hours and when not in conflict with scheduled school activities subject to the following:
A.	The approval of the building principal.
B.	Any cost of custodial services and any damage incurred due to negligence of the local union, shall be paid by the local Union.
ARTICLE V
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The purpose of this procedure is to settle, at the lowest supervisory level, issues which grow out of the administration of this Agreement. An employee's complaint should be presented and handled properly and should be resolved at the first level of supervision with the authority to adjudicate the grievance.
Section 1	- Definitions and Clarifying Statements
A.	A "grievance" is defined as a dispute involving the interpretation or application of the specific provisions of this Agreement. A “complaint” is a claim by an employee or group of employees that there has been a violation, misinterpretation, or misapplication of board policy and state law. The complaint procedure shall be limited to resolution at Step I, Step II and Step III of the grievance procedure, and cannot be subject to the arbitration provisions.
B.	An employee shall indicate prior to Step I whether or not he shall be represented by the Union. The grievance procedure shall be the sole and exclusive procedure available to bargaining unit employees to contest any and all grievances and complaints. The parties agree that in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 447, Florida Statutes, the Union is not obligated to represent bargaining unit employees who are not members of the Union.
C.	If the employee decides not to be represented by the Union, any adjustment of the grievance shall be consistent with the terms of the Agreement.
D.	When an employee has elected Union representation, the employee, the Local 850 President and the Steward shall be notified of any scheduled Step I meetings. Further, any written communication concerning the grievance or its resolution shall be sent to the employee, Local 850 President and the Steward.
E.	As used in this Article, the term "employee" shall mean also a group of employees having the same grievance. In such event, one employee shall be designated by the group or Union to act as spokesperson and be responsible for processing this grievance.
6
F.	A dispute involving the interpretation or application of a provision of this Agreement which gives a right to the Union as an employee organization may be presented by the Union as a grievance. Such grievance shall be initiated at Step II of this Procedure, in accordance with the provisions set forth therein, within fourteen (14) days of the occurrence of the event giving rise to the grievance.
G.	The Union will not process a grievance of an employee when such (employee's) grievance is at the same time the subject of an administrative action or appeal before a governmental board or agency, or court proceeding.
H.	The term "days" as used in this Article shall mean work days, excluding any day observed as a holiday.
Section 2	- Procedures
A.	Grievances shall be presented and adjusted in the following manner:
Step I
If any employee feels he has a grievance, he must within seven (7) work days of the date when the alleged violation occurred or that he had knowledge or should have had knowledge of the alleged violation discuss the matter with his Principal or Worksite Supervisor in an effort to resolve the problem informally. In this informal action the grievant shall advise verbally his Principal or Worksite Supervisor of the particular section of the Agreement which was violated and the relief sought. The Principal or Worksite Supervisor will have five (5) work days after the informal meeting to respond verbally to the grievance.
Step II
If Step I does not resolve the grievance satisfactorily, the grievant shall have the right to lodge a written grievance with his Area Superintendent, Executive Director or Assistant Superintendent, whichever is applicable to the grievant’s job assignment, within seven (7) work days following the verbal response. The written grievance shall contain, the factual basis for the grievance, a reference to the specific section(s) of the Agreement which was (were) violated, and a suggested remedy. A copy of such grievance shall be filed by the grievant with the Superintendent and the Union. If either party to the grievance requests a meeting, the Area Superintendent, Executive Director or Assistant Superintendent shall meet with the grievant and his representative if any. The Area Superintendent, Executive Director or Assistant Superintendent shall indicate the disposition of the grievance in writing, furnishing a copy thereof to the grievant, the Superintendent and the Union within five (5) work days of such meeting, or seven (7) work days of receipt of the grievance if no meeting was requested.
Step III
If the grievant is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance in Step II, the grievant may appeal to the Superintendent within seven (7) work days of receipt of the resolution. If either party to the grievance requests a meeting, the Superintendent or his designee shall meet with the grievant and his representative, if any. The Superintendent or his designee shall indicate the disposition of the grievance in writing, furnishing a copy thereof to the grievant, Area Superintendent, Executive Director or Assistant Superintendent, and the
7
Union within five (5) days of such meeting, or seven (7) days of receipt of the grievance from Step II if no meeting was requested.
B.	Arbitration Provisions:
1.	If the grievant is not satisfied with the decision rendered in Step III, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration. The grievant, within ten (10) work days after receipt of the decision, shall notify the Superintendent in writing of his intent to submit the grievance to arbitration.
2.	Within ten (10) work days of the submission of the written notice of intent to submit to arbitration, the Union shall request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a panel of seven (7) arbitrators, from which, within ten (10) work days, the parties shall select an arbitrator by the alternate striking method.
3.	If for some reason the arbitrator is unable to serve or the parties shall jointly request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a new panel of seven (7) arbitrators from which an arbitrator will be selected in the same manner.
4.	All arbitration proceedings shall be conducted under and governed by the appropriate rules of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
5.	The decision of the arbitrator, if made in accordance with his jurisdiction and authority under this Agreement, shall be final and binding on the Board, the Union, and the Grievant(s). The fees and expenses of the arbitrator shall be borne solely by the party who fails to prevail in the hearing; however, each party shall be responsible for compensating and paying the expenses of its own representatives, attorneys and witnesses. The Union will not be responsible for costs of an arbitration to which it was not a party.
6.	Power of the Arbitrator
It shall be the function of the arbitrator and he shall be empowered, except as hereinafter provided, after due investigation, to make a decision in a case of violation of the specific articles and sections of the Agreement.
a.	He shall have no power to add to, subtract from, or modify in any way the terms of this Agreement.
b.	He shall have no power to change any practice, policy, or rule of the Board nor to substitute his judgment for that of the Board as to the reasonableness of any such practice, policy, rule or any action taken by the Board.
c.	His power shall be limited to deciding whether the Board has violated the express articles or sections of this Agreement.
d.	The arbitrator may fashion an appropriate remedy where he finds a violation of this Agreement. An appropriate award may include back pay; however, no award for back pay shall exceed the amount of pay the
8
employee would otherwise have earned at his regular rate of pay and such back pay shall not be retroactive to a date earlier than the date of the occurrence of the event giving rise to the grievance and in no event more than seven (7) days referred to in Step I of the grievance procedure. The arbitrator shall not award an amount in excess of the actual loss to the grievant and will not include punitive damages. His power to alter the judgment of the administrator in decisions relating to transfer and promotion shall be limited to situations where the arbitrator finds the administrator's judgment to be arbitrary and capricious.
e.	The arbitrator shall render a decision within thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing.
Section 3	- Time Limits
A.	Failure to initiate or appeal a grievance within the time limits shall be deemed a waiver of the grievance.
B.	Failure at any step of this procedure to communicate the decision on a grievance within the specified time limit shall permit the employee, or the Union where appropriate, to proceed to the next step.
C.	The number of days indicated at each step should be considered as the maximum, and every effort should be made to expedite the process. However, the time limits specified in any step of this procedure may be extended, in any specific instance, by mutual agreement.
Section 4	- General Provisions
A.	If a grievance arises from the action of an official higher than the Step II principal or worksite administrator, the grievance may be initiated at Step III by submitting a grievance form as set forth in Step II.
B.	The written submission of a grievance to Step III or Arbitration shall include a copy of the grievance forms submitted at Step II and the written decisions at each preceding step of the Grievance procedure.
C.	There shall be no reprisals against any of the participants in the procedures contained herein by reason of such participation.
D.	If a grievance meeting is held or requires reasonable travel time during the working hours of any required participant, such participant shall be excused without loss of pay for that purpose. All required travel shall be by the most efficient and economical means. Attendance at grievance meetings outside of regular working hours shall not be deemed time worked.
E.	The resolution of a grievance prior to its submission in writing in Step III shall not establish a precedent binding on either the Board or the Union in other cases. The Union shall not be bound by the decision of any grievance or arbitration in which the employee chose not to be represented by the Union.
9
ARTICLE VI
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
Section 1	- Disciplinary Action
A.	An employee may be disciplined only for just cause. An employee may have a steward, and a Union Representative or a Local 850 Union Officer present during any disciplinary investigation in which the employee is being questioned relative to alleged misconduct of the employee. The employee shall be advised of the nature of the meeting at the beginning of the meeting. If during any meeting or conference with an employee the possibility of discipline arises, at the request of the employee for representation, the supervisor conducting the meeting shall immediately discontinue the meeting until representation is secured. Exercising representative rights by the employee shall not delay the investigative process more than twenty-four (24) hours unless mutually agreed. The employees' right of appeal shall include either the grievance procedure included herein or a hearing conducted pursuant to Chapter 120.57, Florida Statutes.
An employee who elects to proceed under Chapter 120.57 Florida Statutes may further elect to proceed before a hearing officer appointed by the Florida Division of Administrative Hearings, whose decision will be regulated under Chapter 120.68, Florida Statutes, or may elect to proceed before the Volusia County School Board. Such appeal must be made within 20 days of receipt of formal notice of the disciplinary action being appealed, and must specify whether the employee will proceed before a hearing officer or before the school board.
Any committee established by the Superintendent to review and revise the Procedure to Implement Safe Operation of School Board Vehicles For All Operators of School Board Vehicles will have two (2) members of this bargaining unit. The committee to administer the established procedure will include two (2) members of the bargaining unit.
B.	Under normal circumstances the Board will follow the tenets of progressive discipline in the administration of its disciplinary standards.
C.	Discipline shall be defined as (1) the suspension of an employee; (2) the termination of an employee during the term of his or her annual contract, after he or she has completed the initial probationary period; or (3) the non-reappointment of an employee who has successfully completed three consecutive years of employment with the District, and been reappointed for a fourth year.
D.	A demotion shall be defined as the involuntary reassignment of an employee to position in a classification which has a lower hourly rate of pay, for reasons not related to Article XV, Layoff and Recall. An employee who has been subjected to a demotion shall have the right to a meeting with the superintendent /designee to discuss the matter, and present any evidence he/she may have on the issue of whether the demotion was warranted.
Section 2	- Employee File
Personnel files shall be maintained in accordance with Florida Statutes, Florida State Board of Education Administrative Rules, and Volusia County School Board Policy Number 412.
10
Appendix F of this contract contains Chapter 231.291, Florida Statutes and Volusia County School Board Policy 412 for information only and are not grievable.
ARTICLE VII NO STRIKE
Section 1	- No Strike Agreement
Neither the Union nor any of its officers or agents nor members covered by this Agreement, nor any other employees covered by this Agreement, will instigate, promote, sponsor, or engage in any prohibited activities as defined in Section 447.203(6), Florida Statutes.
Section 2	- Penalty
Any or all employees who violate any provision of the law prohibiting strikes or of this Article will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge, and any such disciplinary action by the Board shall not be subject to the grievance procedure established herein.
ARTICLE VIII
PREVAILING RIGHTS
All pay and benefits provisions published in the Board's personnel rules and regulations which cover employees in the bargaining unit and which are not specifically provided for by this Agreement shall be afforded the employee.
ARTICLE IX
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Board has the right to set standards of service to be offered to the public and exercise control and discretion over its organization and operations, and to fully exercise all management rights not addressed in this Agreement.
The Board may direct its employees, take disciplinary action for just cause, and relieve its employees from duty because of lack of work, or other legitimate reasons, provided, however, that the exercise of such rights shall not preclude employees from raising grievances through their Union, should decisions on the above matter have the practical consequences of violating the terms and conditions of any collective bargaining agreement in force.
The Board has the sole right to determine the qualifications of employees, the work to be performed, the number of employees who will perform the work, and the classifications of employees involved.
ARTICLE X
EMPLOYEE PROTECTION
The Board will furnish legal counsel to members in defense of civil legal actions arising out of the discharge of their duties within the scope of their employment in the school system, unless the Board finds that the member acted in bad faith, with malicious purpose, or in a manner exhibiting wanton and willful disregard of human rights, safety or property.
11
ARTICLE XI
SUPERVISOR/EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
Complaints by an employee that he is not being dealt with in a reasonable and equitable manner in day-to-day relations with his supervisor may be carried by the employee to the worksite supervisor or principal. The employee upon request shall be accompanied by a steward or Local Union Representative.
ARTICLE XII
WORK RULES
A.	The Board may establish reasonable and necessary rules of work and employee conduct. Administration or enforcement of such rules will be fair and equitable.
B.	The Board agrees to prepare and issue an Employee Handbook, to each employee in the bargaining unit, containing information regarding rules of conduct, insurance benefits and options, and work rules which pertain to the employee. This handbook shall be presented to all new employees at time of employment.
C.	Any employee who has not been issued a handbook shall receive a handbook within forty-five (45) work days of the signing of the contract.
D.	The Board will update handbooks by providing any applicable changes to affected employees.
ARTICLE XIII JOB ASSIGNMENTS
Section 1	- Promotions
A promotion shall mean an advancement to a higher job classification with a higher hourly wage. A change in step increment or an increase in hours shall not be interpreted as a promotion.
Section 2	- New Worksites
When the Board establishes a new worksite, the following terms shall apply:
A.	A vacancy announcement will be created, describing the number of positions available, the classifications involved, and shall specify the required qualifications, training and specific competencies needed for each position.
B.	If the administration has determined that the vacancies are to be filled from one or more specific established worksites, the announcement shall be publicized to the employees at those worksites in the affected classification(s).
C.	If the administration has determined that the vacancies are to be open district wide, then the positions shall be posted pursuant to Article XVII Vacancies.
D.	Employees volunteering for the transfer who meet all of the required qualifications, training requirements and specific competencies listed in the posting shall be given first consideration. The Board will endeavor to fill the vacancies with qualified applicants currently employed by the Board who meet the training requirements and
12
specific competencies listed in the posting. Where two or more applicants are judged by the worksite supervisor to be equally the most qualified applicants, based upon a comparison of the required qualifications, training and specific competencies needed for the position, then the applicant with the highest district seniority shall be given preference.
E.	If in the judgment of the administration, the pool of applicants resulting from the posting does not include sufficient persons qualified for the positions who meet the training requirements and specific competencies listed on the posting, the administration shall have the right to make involuntary transfers of employees. When making involuntary transfers, all criteria listed on the posting shall be considered. The employee to be transferred will normally be the employee with the least district wide seniority:
1.	who meets all the qualifications, training, and specific competencies needed for the position;
2.	who does not possess any additional qualifications, training or competency required at the original worksite, in the judgment of the worksite supervisor. In addition, such employee will not be subject to involuntary transfer if his or her employment at the original worksite is necessary, in the judgment of the worksite supervisor, in order to provide staff balance and best meet the needs of the school community.
ARTICLE XIV
SENIORITY
1.	Seniority shall be defined as an employee's uninterrupted service with the Board, including sick leave and any other Board approved leave with pay. Absence(s) due to Board approved long-term leave, without pay, shall not be counted toward seniority, but shall be considered as uninterrupted service.
2.	All seniority shall be lost for the following reasons:
A.	If the	employee quits
B.	If the	employee is discharged
C.	If the	employee retires
D.	Layoff exceeding one year
E.	Failure to report from layoff within the time limits prescribed
F.	Failure to report from any long-term leave, including military, within the time limits
prescribed
3.	An employee whose district seniority is broken for any of the above reasons shall be considered as a new employee if he is again employed by the Board.
4.	The Board shall provide the union with a Personnel action list covering bargaining unit employees. This list will contain names, classification and date of action. Within twenty
1 3
(20)	work days after ratification date the Board shall provide the union with a copy of an up-to-date district seniority list. The list will be by department in order of district seniority giving the names, job titles, and date of hire. A copy shall also be posted in each department.
5.	Where a high school diploma is an eligibility requirement for such promotion excluding School Food Service Managers, Assistant Managers and Interns, successful work experience or completion of a certificate vocational program in the field, may be substituted for the required diploma as determined by the Personnel Department.
6.	An employee who transfers to a position with the Board outside the bargaining unit and who subsequently returns to a position within the bargaining unit will have his district seniority restored equal to what it was at the time he left the bargaining unit.
7.	Provided the employee is able to perform the work, seniority and personal preference will be considered when an opening occurs in shift assignments for custodial employees and transportation mechanics.
ARTICLE XV
LAYOFF AND RECALL
Section 1 - Definitions and General Provisions
A.	Job classification - position within an occupational group as listed in Appendix A of this Agreement
B.	Seniority - as defined in Article XIV, Section 1A and B of this Agreement
C.	1. Layoff is the separation of an employee for lack of work or funds, without any
fault or delinquency on the employee's part. Employees shall be laid off in accordance with district Seniority in their job classification.
2.	In the event that two (2) or more employees have the same district seniority in their job classification, the Board will make the decision based on the employee's experience, training, and job performance to determine which employee remains.
3.	The Board agrees to provide the Union with a list of names of the employees being laid off and such notice shall be sent at the time that it is issued to the employees affected. Employees to be laid off shall be notified as soon as possible after the decision is made. In no event shall the Board give less than ten (10) working days notice to affected employees.
Section 2 - Procedures
A.	Layoff
The employer shall determine when a layoff is necessary and shall determine the positions to be eliminated or reduced. In the event of a layoff within a given job classification, the following procedures shall be followed:
1.	The employer will determine how many employees must be removed from the job classification.
14
2.	The employer will remove employees from that job classification in reverse order of district Seniority.
B.	Reduction of Hours
The employer shall determine when a reduction of hours is necessary and shall determine the number of hours to be reduced. In the event of a reduction of hours within a given job classification the following procedures shall be followed:
1.	The employer will determine how many hours must be reduced from the job classification.
2.	The employer will reduce hours within that job classification in reverse order of district Seniority.
C.	Exceptions
1.	The adjustment of hours of School Food Service Assistants, Bus Operators and Bus Assistants is exempt from these layoff provisions.
2.	Any transfer of personnel deemed necessary by the Board as a result of any layoff or reduction of hours shall be exempt from the vacancy announcement requirement.
D.	Recall
Employees in layoff status will retain recall rights for one (1) year and shall have preference to work over other applicants.
1.	Recall will be made by certified mail to the last address in the employee's records. Within five (5) work days of the certified receipt date, laid off employees must signify their intention of returning to work to the Personnel office. Failure to respond to the notice shall constitute a resignation by the employee.
2.	When employees are recalled from layoff, the employee with the greatest district seniority in that classification shall be recalled first. If the laid-off employee, when offered recall, is temporarily unable to return to work due to medical reasons, he may request an extension of recall rights, not to exceed two (2) months. Such medical reason must be substantiated by a doctor's statement.
E.	In order to avoid layoff an employee may elect to move to a lower classification to the least senior position in the same occupational group (as described in Appendix A) providing the employee has more district seniority than an employee who might be displaced as a result of the demotion.
F.	If the affected employee does not elect to accept a demotion under section A above and is unable to move into a lower classification, the employee may move laterally or down to the least senior position in any other classification previously successfully held within the bargaining unit. If such a move is not available, the employee may move into any other lower classification in the classification series of the position previously held using the same procedure.
1 5
G.	If the affected employee is unable to move into any position as provided in sections A and B above the employee shall be laid off.
ARTICLE XVI
DAYS AND HOURS
A.	Work Day
All full day employees will be required to work an eight-hour day. In the event the Board declares a four-day work week for all or part of the workforce, the work day shall consist of ten (10) hours including two fifteen minute breaks and a 45-minute unpaid lunch. In addition, employees may request a four day work week.. Management will endeavor to respond within ten (10) work days. The grant of such a request is within the sole discretion of management.
B.	Work Week
The work week shall consist of no more than five (5) days of work.
C.	Overtime
1.	When full day employees are directed to work overtime in addition to their regular hours, totaling more than forty (40) hours per week, they shall be compensated for the additional time at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) of the normal rate of pay. When the employee designated above works on Board designated holidays, he/she shall be compensated at double time for the actual number of hours worked. The employee will also be compensated the normal rate of pay for Board designated holiday based on his/her normal allotted hours per day.
2.	Employees who work less than an eight (8) hour day will be compensated at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) of the normal rate of pay for time worked totaling more than forty (40) hours in a work week.
3.	The use of compensatory time shall be in compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act.
D.	Special Functions
Food Service and custodial employees who work on special functions, funded by a business or agency outside the school system, in addition to their regularly assigned work hours, shall be compensated at a rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) of their normal rate of pay. Payment will be made in a timely fashion - not to exceed four (4) weeks.
E.	Meetings Outside of Regular Assigned Work Hours
Employees, when required to attend will be compensated at their regular rate of pay (or overtime where applicable) for in-service meetings and training sessions held between or after their regular working hours.
The issue of whether employees should be paid for time between the end of their regular work hours and the start of the in-service meetings and/or training sessions shall be governed
1 6
by the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act, and will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.
F.	Emergency Call Backs
An employee on Emergency Call Back shall be paid for the additional hours worked and the time normally required to travel to the work site or a minimum of two (2) hours, whichever is greater. This emergency call back provision shall only apply where the employee is given less than 48 hours advance notice of the call back.
Supervisors will minimize telephone contact with employees after hours.
G.	Lunch Time
The lunch period for each employee, with the exception of bus operators and bus assistants shall be thirty (30) minutes for employees with regular scheduled work hours of six (6) or more. Employees shall not be paid for lunch periods. Employees with a six (6) hour work day may waive the 30 minute lunch period with the agreement of the worksite administrator.
H.	Break Time
With the exception of bus operators and bus assistants there shall be a ten (10) minute break with each four (4) hours worked. Employees will be available for work during break time.
I.	Paid Holidays
Twelve (12) month Employees shall receive nine (9) paid holidays in accordance with Board adopted Salary and Payroll Information Document.
J.	Modified School Calendar
Any employee covered by this agreement employed at a Modified Calendar School shall receive all applicable rights and privileges as specified in this contract.
K.	Job Description
The Board agrees to prepare and maintain a job description which shall be updated on a yearly basis or whenever there is a significant change in specific duties assigned to the employee. Each employee shall receive a copy of his job description. The parties recognize the value of cross-training to enhance skills and provide advancement opportunities.
L.	Except for employees in Transportation Services or School Nutrition Services, a reasonable notice of two weeks will be given to an employee if it becomes necessary to alter his schedule or assignment. If such a change involves a change in work days to include a regular Saturday or Sunday schedule, the Union shall also be notified. Employees in Transportation Services or School Nutrition services shall be notified of a change in schedule soon after the cafeteria manager or director/designee of transportation services becomes aware of the change.
M.	Reasonable efforts will be made to utilize substitutes as necessary.
17
N.	Shared Managers
Cafeteria managers assigned to supervise more than one facility shall be required to work one additional hour per day and shall be paid accordingly.
ARTICLE XVII
VACANCIES
A.	When a vacancy occurs, the Board agrees to post in all Work Centers a vacancy announcement regardless of the provisions of paragraph C below. However, vacancies that are filled by mandatory transfers shall not be required to be posted. The announcement will specify required qualifications and specific competencies needed for the position, the salary range, the procedure for interviews, whether a temporary or permanent position, and deadline dates for application. Candidates will have at least five (5) days in which to apply after the date of issuance of the announcement. The Board will endeavor to fill vacancies with qualified applicants currently employed by the Board. In all matters of promotions, and voluntary lateral transfers, the employee with the highest district seniority will be given preference provided such employee has equal or better ability to satisfactorily perform the work in question as determined by the work site supervisor.
B.	Employees who are not selected will be notified to that effect. Upon written request a written explanation will be given as to why they were not selected.
C.	The Board may fill a vacant position on a temporary (90 workdays) basis whenever necessary without regard to seniority. Vacancies in permanent positions will be filled on a temporary basis only when necessary.
D.	New employees shall be considered probationary for the first ninety (90) working days, during which time such employees shall be considered employees at will. Thereafter, they shall be considered regular employees and shall have the rights under this collective bargaining agreement. An employee shall not be considered to have a right to continued employment under the terms of this contract until he or she has successfully completed three consecutive years of employment with the district and been reappointed for a fourth year. Nothing in this contract will be construed to grant a probationary employee a right to continued employment during the employee's initial probationary period.
E.	All regular employees who are granted a transfer to a new position shall serve a ninety working day probationary period, during which time they shall have the rights under this contract, but may be returned to their previous position if they are unable to fulfill the requirements of the new position. Employees who are appointed to a position at a specific site assignment shall not be considered for a voluntary transfer or reassignment for a period of one year, unless otherwise agreed by the supervisor.
F.	Employees who regularly work on a ten (10) month or lesser basis shall be given consideration for temporary summer job openings for which they qualify and apply.
1 8
ARTICLE XVIII SAFETY
Section 1	- Safety Committee
AFSCME representatives will be included in district-wide and site-based safety committees as such committees are established pursuant to school board policy. AFSCME shall be given input on the development of the safety committee policy as such policy is developed in consultation with the currently established district-wide safety committee, which includes representatives from the administration and the other two bargaining units and AFSCME.
Section 2	- Employee Safety
A.	The Board shall provide and maintain First Aid kits in work areas and vehicles, and shall inspect such kits periodically.
B.	When an employee believes that an unsafe or unhealthy working condition exists in the work area, the employee shall immediately report the concern to his or her supervisor for direction. The employee shall also have the opportunity to submit the concern in writing on a form designated by the administration.
ARTICLE XIX
LEAVE PROVISIONS
Any employee who is willfully absent without leave will forfeit compensation for the time of such absence and will be subject to disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.
Any earned leave taken under this Article may be taken in increments of fifteen (15) minutes with a minimum of one initial hour.
Section 1	- Paid Sick Leave
A.	Any employee employed on a full-time basis who is unable to work because of personal illness or disability, or because of illness or death of father, mother, brother, sister, husband, wife, child or other close relative, shall be granted paid sick leave.
B.	Each employee employed on a full-time basis shall earn one (1) day of paid sick leave for each month of employment which shall be credited to the employee as prescribed by law and which shall not be used prior to the time it is credited. However, the employee shall be entitled to earn no more than one (1) day of paid sick leave times the number of months of employment. Employees shall earn paid sick leave for employment in the summer programs provided in the Florida Statutes. Paid sick leave shall be cumulative from year to year.
C.	Total accumulated paid sick leave may be used in any one (1) year when necessary. In no case will an employee be allowed to use unpaid sick leave until all earned sick leave is depleted.
D.	Earned paid sick leave in another Florida school district or in the Florida Department of Education shall be transferred at the request of the Personnel Department and credited to any employee having such accrued leave at the same rate as the employee earns in the district.
19
E.	Any employee whose personal illness extends beyond the period covered by accumulated sick leave pay should request a leave of absence. Unearned sick leave will be permitted for a maximum of twenty (20) consecutive work days. Leave beyond this period should be a Board approved Leave of Absence. If the employee is unable to or unwilling to complete the request for such a Leave of Absence, the Personnel Department may initiate the leave for up to ninety (90) days or the remainder of the fiscal year.
Section 2	- Terminal Sick Leave Pay
A.	Terminal pay for accumulated sick leave will be in accordance with the following schedule. If termination of employment is by death of the employee, any terminal pay to which the employee is entitled shall be made to the beneficiary as identified with the Florida retirement system or other beneficiary identified to the School Board by the Employee.
1.	During the first three (3) years of service in Volusia County, the hourly rate of pay multiplied by thirty-five percent (35%) times the number of hours of accumulated sick leave.
2.	During the next three (3) years of service in Volusia County, the hourly rate of pay multiplied by forty percent (40%) times the number of hours accumulated sick leave.
3.	During the next three (3) years of service in Volusia County, the hourly rate of pay multiplied by forty-five percent (45%) times the number of hours of accumulated sick leave.
4.	During and after the tenth (10th) year of service in Volusia County, the hourly rate of pay multiplied by fifty percent (50%) times the number of hours of accumulated sick leave.
5.	For retirement or death, terminal pay during or after the thirteenth (13th) year of service in Volusia County will be at the hourly rate of pay multiplied by one hundred percent (100%) times the number of hours of accumulated sick leave.
6.	Employees participating in the Deferred Retirement Option Program (DROP) shall be permitted to receive the terminal sick leave pay for which they are eligible at the time they enter the program. Such payment(s) shall be paid into the tax deferral plan as may be required by paragraph 7 below. Such payment shall be limited to twenty percent (20%) of the sick leave accumulated at the time the employee enters DROP such percentage being paid in each year the employee is in the program, with any balance being due upon actual retirement.
7.	Terminal sick leave pay shall be paid into a tax deferral plan adopted by the school board, and shall then be paid to the employee in accordance with the terms of such plan.
B.	Upon written request, an employee will receive an annual payment for accumulated sick leave that is earned for that year and that is unused at the end of the employee's work year according to the following schedule:
20
1.	During the first three (3) years of service in Volusia County, the hourly rate of pay multiplied by thirty-five percent (35%) times the number of eligible hours of sick leave.
2.	During the next three (3) years of service in Volusia County, the hourly rate of pay multiplied by forty percent (40%) times the number of eligible hours of sick leave.
3.	During the next three (3) years of service in Volusia County, the hourly rate of pay multiplied by forty-five percent (45%) times the number of eligible hours of sick leave.
4.	During the next three (3) years of service in Volusia County, the hourly rate of pay multiplied by fifty percent (50%) times the number of eligible hours of sick leave.
Hours for which such payment is received will be deducted from the accumulated leave balance.
Section 3	- Paid Personal Leave
Six (6) days sick leave each year may be used as paid personal leave. Five (5) of the six (6) paid personal leave days may be taken stating "no reason given". The other day must be requested stating reason for leave.
Paid Personal Leave, including the "no reason given" day, must be requested in advance. Where emergency conditions exist, the leave may be requested after the fact, however, the worksite supervisor or designee MUST be notified of such emergency leave by noon of the first day of the leave. Except when emergency conditions exist, these leaves should be requested two (2) weeks in advance so that there is ample time for the forms to move through the appropriate channels. While the principal/department head has the discretion to deny requests for personal leave, employees shall be notified by September 15 of any time periods during which the administration deems it problematic to grant requests for personal leave, e.g., the time period during which the FCAT is administered.
Paid Personal Leave requested for immediately before or after a holiday period will be approved only for the most compelling of reasons, which must be stated in advance.
Paid Personal Leave for School Food Service employees may not be taken during pre- and post-planning.
Paid Personal Leave, including the "no reason given" day, may not be taken for employment elsewhere.
Paid Personal Leave days are not cumulative, as such, but only as sick leave days.
Section 4	- Annual Leave
Only personnel employed on a twelve-calendar month basis will be granted paid vacations as follows:
21
A.	Full Day Employees (eight 8 hours)
1.	Employees with less than five (5) years of continuous service will earn eight (8) hours per month of annual leave.
2.	Employees with five (5) or more years of continuous service will earn annual leave at the rate of ten (10) hours per month, or one-hundred twenty (120) hours per year.
3.	Employees with ten (10) or more years of continuous service will earn annual leave at the rate of twelve (12) hours per month, or one-hundred forty-four (144) hours per year.
B.	Annual leave may be accrued up to 500 hours. Less than full day employees will earn the pro rata amount. No days in excess of this amount may be carried forward from September 30 of each year.
C.	Annual vacation leave may not be taken until the individual has been employed six (6) months except with the approval of the Chief Personnel Officer.
D.	Terminal annual leave earned to date will be allowed to individuals who have been employed more than six (6) months.
E.	An employee has the right to terminal annual leave earned in prior years regardless of the conditions of his termination.
F.	Authorized terminal annual leave pay shall be payable to an employee in a lump sum upon termination of employment or upon retirement, or to the employee's beneficiary as identified with the Florida retirement system or other beneficiary identified to the School Board by the Employee if service is terminated by death.
G.	Employees may choose their vacation dates by district seniority within the annual leave schedule established by each department director or principal.
H.	Effective July 1, 1987, annual leave will be computed and reported on an hourly basis. Effective with ratification of this contract, annual leave may be taken in increments of 15 minutes with a minimum of one initial hour.
Section 5	- Other Short-Term Leaves
A.	Temporary Duty
1.	Temporary duty leave shall be granted when such duty will cover attendance at required activities, attendance requested by the Superintendent, or participation as a representative of the school system. This is not a leave of absence, but rather an assignment to duty at a location other than the regular place of duty. Such duty should be requested to include necessary travel time to and from the location of the activity.
2.	Temporary duty will be granted with pay for the appearance in any legal proceeding connected with the employee's employment, or with the school system or in any other legal proceeding such as jury duty, or when subpoenaed
22
to appear before a public body or commission or other legal body if required by law to attend excluding personal litigation.
B.	Military Leave with Pay
All regular full-time employees who are members of the United States Armed Services Reserves or members of the National Guard Reserves of the United States shall receive compensation up to a maximum of seventeen (17) days absence from their regular work, if they are ordered by the Armed Services Reserves or National Guard to report for temporary active duty provided that:
An employee not receiving annual paid vacations should plan to render his/her military service during the time school is not in session. If this is impossible, requests for leave for temporary military service with military orders attached must be submitted to the Personnel Department sufficiently early to be approved prior to the commencement of the leave.
The School Board shall have the right to extend additional benefits to employees called to active duty. The decision of whether or not to extend such benefits is within the sole discretion of the School Board. The School Board shall notify the Union of any decision to extend such benefits.
C.	Unpaid Personal Leave
Application to the immediate supervisor for unpaid personal leave of short duration will be made at least one (1) day in advance, except in cases of emergency, and the applicant for such leave shall not be required to state reasons for taking such leave.
Unpaid personal leave will only be permitted when the employee has exhausted all accumulated leave. An exception to this requirement will be permitted to provide flexibility for employees currently collecting social security. This restriction shall not prohibit unpaid leave being used in the progressive discipline of an employee.
Section 6	- Long-Term Leaves Without Pay
Employees are eligible for leave of absence for a period of one full year for illness, maternity/infant care, caring for a sick member of the employee's family and voluntary military service. Upon request, reasons for these leaves must be verified. Leave for these purposes may be granted to any employee for the remaining balance of a school year.
A leave maintains an employee-employer relationship during the length of said leave. An employee who desires to return to employment following the termination of a leave shall be given his/her position at the same work site. If the position has been eliminated, the employee will be assigned to a substantially equivalent position. If the employee refuses the reassignment, he/she will be terminated. If the employee fails to return upon expiration of leave, the employee will be terminated.
A.	Maternity Leave and Infant Care Leave
An employee is eligible for maternity leave without pay for a period not to exceed one (1) year. Such leave shall commence on a date determined by the employee and her physician.
23
1.	An employee is entitled, upon request, to use sick/annual leave for the purpose of short term maternity leave.
2.	Child Care Leave - An employee may be entitled, upon request, to personal leave without pay to begin subsequent to the birth of his/her child and up to the balance of the current fiscal year.
3.	Adoption of Children - An employee may be entitled, upon request, to personal leave without pay to commence subsequent to receiving legal custody of an infant child or prior to receiving such custody, if necessary, in order to fulfill the legal requirements for adoption.
B.	Military Leave Without Pay
Military leave will be granted employees in accordance with Florida State Board of Education Administrative Rules. Under present regulations, leave shall be granted to any employee who is required to serve in the Armed Forces of the United States or the State of Florida in fulfillment of obligations incurred under selective service laws or because of membership in reserves of the Armed Forces or the National Guard. Leave shall be for the duration of service plus some reasonable time not to exceed one (1) year, as may be necessary for the employee to be reassigned and resume his/her duties. Employees who enter voluntarily into active duty for extended periods of service will be granted leave in accordance with the general policy governing long term of absence.
Section 7	- Union Leaves of Absence
A.	Leaves
Employees may be granted leave without pay to attend union conventions, conferences or meetings when requested by the employee.
B.	Negotiations
The Union may designate certain employees within the bargaining unit to serve as its Negotiating Team, and such employees will be granted leave with pay to attend negotiations with the Board. The above referenced designations will not exceed the following:
SFS Personnel - two (2) employees - no more than one (1) per school
Custodial Personnel - two (2) employees - no more than one (1) per school
Maintenance Personnel - two (2) employees - no more than one (1) per occupational group
Transportation Personnel - two (2) employees
Campus Advisors - one (1) employee
C.	Union leave may be granted to as many as one employee designated by the Union for the purpose of serving as a representative of the Union or its State or National affiliate.
24
Leave under this section shall be for a period of one year but may be renewed upon request. The Board will be reimbursed for salary and benefits accrued during such leave.
Section 8	- Personal Injury Leave
Whenever an employee is absent from work as a result of personal injury due to assault arising out of and in the course of his employment, he shall be paid full salary for the period of such absence or the balance of the fiscal year whichever is shorter, if approved by the Board as provided for in Florida Statute 231.41 (1) (2), without having such absence charged to sick leave.
Section 9	- Professional Leave (Non-Union Related)
Employees may request professional leave to attend local, state and national meetings.
Section 10	- Workers' Compensation Benefits
In compliance with Florida Statute Section 231.41 any employee who sustains an injury on the job shall be entitled to fully compensated illness-in-the-line-of-duty leave not to exceed ten (10) school days during any one school year and Florida Statute Section 231.41 shall supersede Florida Statute Section 440.11 during that ten (10) day period. After the 10 days of illness-in-the-line-of-duty leave have been exhausted, Florida Statute Section 440.11 shall apply and Workers' Compensation shall be the sole source of recovery for an employee who sustains an injury on the job.
Workers' Compensation benefits are equal to two-thirds (2/3) of an employee's salary plus benefits up to a statutory maximum established by the State of Florida. If an employee is drawing workers' compensation benefits and has available sick leave he/she may supplement workers' compensation benefits with sick leave to where the combination of workers' compensation benefits plus sick leave equals his /her regular salary. This must be done by a written request from the employee to Payroll.
The Board will continue to provide employees on workers' compensation with group matching health insurance, life insurance, and retirement benefits.
If an employee has no earnings against which Payroll can deduct the employee's portion of group health insurance the Board will notify the employee that he/she must send this payment directly to The School Board of Volusia County. If the employee chooses to let his/her group health insurance coverage cease the Board will no longer make its match.
Organization 9074 will be used for receiving employees transferred to a long-term workers' compensation status.
Transfer of an employee from his/her current organization to organization 9074 must be done by Notice of Personnel Action (NPA) and only upon securing approval for the transfer from the Risk Manager who will be responsible for monitoring Organization 9074.
Transfer of an employee to Organization 9074 frees his/her unit at the transferring organization to be filled by another employee.
25
When an employee is released to return to work the Board will make every effort to place the employee in an equivalent position (subject to any medical restrictions) within the district. The Board has no obligation to return the employee to his/her original organization.
ARTICLE XX
FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT
1.	Family and Medical Leave Act: All provisions of this article shall be interpreted so as to comply with the requirements of the Family and Medical Leave Act and any amendments thereto, and with such federal regulations that may be issued under the Act.
2.	Employee Eligibility: Eligibility for these benefits shall be limited to those bargaining unit members that have been employed for at least the previous twelve (12) months by the Board, and worked at least 1,250 hours during that previous twelve (12) month period.
3.	Terms of Leave: This leave shall be granted, in the following instances, for no more than a total of twelve (12) work weeks during the school year, July 1 through June 30. It shall be granted to eligible bargaining unit members for: (A) to care for the employee's child after birth, or following placement for adoption or foster care; (B) to care for the employee's spouse, son, daughter, or parent who has a serious health condition; or (C) for a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform the employee's job.
4.	Definitions: The definitions contained in the Act apply to this article.
5.	Group Medical Insurance: The Board shall continue an employee's group medical insurance in full effect during FMLA leave, to the same extent as when the employee worked. The employee shall be responsible for his or her share of insurance premium payment. Days of leave taken under the sick leave provision of the collective bargaining agreement shall be considered to be leave taken under the FMLA if taken for a serious health condition, for the purposes of this article, as shall any annual leave taken after the employee has exhausted his or her sick leave due to a serious health condition.
6.	Length of Unpaid Medical or Child Care Leave: The length of any unpaid medical or child care leave shall be determined by the collective bargaining agreement, provided such provisions, when considered with sick leave and annual leave used as stated above in paragraph 6, meet the required twelve (12) week allotment called for by the Act.
7.	Notice: If leave is taken to care for a newborn child or a child newly placed for adoption or foster care, the employee must provide notice of the leave in writing, to the personnel department and to his or her immediate supervisor, approximately thirty (30) days in advance, where possible. If a leave is needed for foreseeable medical care, it shall be requested, in writing at least thirty(30) days in advance, or as early as is practicable.
8.	Medical Certification: (A) Illness of Others: When requesting leave for a serious health condition of the employee's spouse, child or parent, the employee, upon request by the school district shall submit a statement from the patient's doctor which certifies that it is necessary for the employee to care for the patient, and estimates the length of time the care is needed. (B) Illness of Employee: The Board may require a medical certification from eligible employees who request leave under the FMLA. Additional requests for medical certification shall be at the employer's expense and shall comply with the regulations under the Act.
2 6
9.	Intermittent Leave For Planned Medical Treatment: Unpaid medical leave with FMLA benefits may be taken on an intermittent basis when the employee, the employee's spouse, child or parent has a serious medical condition and it is foreseeable that the employee will need short periods of time off. Such intermittent leave days may be taken only when all sick leave and annual leave has been exhausted. Intermittent leave may be taken in increments of one or more days or partial days at work. Intermittent leave will be granted, subject to the previously mentioned terms, if the health care provider certifies that it is medically necessary. The Board may require medical certification of the need, and the schedule or time of the treatment. The employee must give the Board thirty (30) days written notice of the need for the leave, if possible. If it is not possible to give thirty (30) days advance notice, the employee shall provide as much notice as is practicable.
10.	Employees must exhaust all sick leave prior to taking an unpaid leave covered by the FMLA, where the reason for the leave is covered by section (B) or (C) of paragraph number 3.
11.	Restoration: Upon return from an FMLA leave, the affected employee is entitled to be restored to the same position that the employee held when the leave started, or to an equivalent position with equivalent benefits, pay and other terms and conditions of employment.
ARTICLE XXI
SALARY AND FRINGE BENEFITS
Section 1	- Insurance
The Board shall provide for employees an insurance program as follows:
A.	Life Insurance
1.	Each regular employee is provided fully paid life insurance coverage equal to the annual salary.
2.	A participating employee, at his or her option, may choose to purchase additional available coverage as offered by the Board through payroll deductions.
B.	Group Health Insurance Policy - All regular employees who work four (4) or more hours per day shall be eligible for enrollment in the Group Health Insurance Plans approved by the Board. This coverage includes accidental death and dismemberment, hospitalization, dental and major medical. It is agreed that the cost of single coverage health insurance to the participating employees be sixty dollars ($60.00) per year with the stipulation that the Board will receive all refunds, adjustments, returned reserves, and all other rebates which are received from all health, life and dental insurance coverage.
Participating employees may obtain additional coverage provided they assume the total cost of the additional coverage. The Board will pay fifty cents ($.50) per month for each year of Volusia County service for those retired Employees who remain in an approved plan until age 65.
27
It is the responsibility of the employee to arrange for continued insurance coverage if for any reason the employee is on unearned sick leave or leave of absence.
C.	Disability Insurance - The Board will, upon request, deduct the monthly premium from the salaries of those employees who participate in Board approved disability income protection.
D.	Personal Accident Insurance - The Board will, upon request, deduct the monthly premium from the salaries of those employees who participate in Board approved Personal Accident Insurance protection.
E.	The bargaining unit shall have a voting voice on any insurance committee formed by the Board.
F.	The Union at its discretion may offer additional supplemental benefits to members of the bargaining unit, the cost of which shall be borne by the member. The Union may solicit employee participation in such benefits in non-work areas and on non-work time.
Section 2	- Tax Shelter Annuity
The Board will, upon request, reduce the salaries of employees for contributions to tax sheltered annuities approved by the Board for payroll reductions.
Section 3	- Salary Schedule
A.	For experience credit, only full years of verified school food service work will be allowed. For Volusia County experience, each year of service will be considered a full year of work regardless of whether the service was part-time or full-time, provided the service was rendered for at least one day more that half the work year.
B.	The new salary schedule shall be attached as an appendix. This salary schedule will be effective July 1, 2003.
C.	Step Increment
1.	To be eligible for a step increment an employee must have been employed at least one (1) day more than one-half (1/2) of the preceding work year. A step increment will be granted in the 2003-04 school year.
After January 1, 1987, new employees shall begin at step 1 except that an employee will be granted up to a maximum of step 5 when experience is verified in the same or similar job category. Only Volusia County School Board experience will be granted to former employees re-employed by the Board. Former employees shall be placed at the last step attained prior to separation.
2.	The salary increment designated by the Salary Schedule shall not be implemented until negotiated and determined in accordance with Chapter 447, Florida Statutes. Nothing herein shall preclude the parties from negotiating changes in the values of the increments.
28
D.	The intern program is a one-year training program. The position of intern will be held for a maximum of two years. If at the end of the two-year period, the employee has not secured a position as an SNS manager, he/she will be returned to the first available position of SNS Assistant with at least the same number of hours held immediately prior to becoming an intern.
The board will attempt to place the employee in a school in the same geographic area as the employee was immediately prior to becoming an intern.
The appropriate step increment(s) that the employee would have received had he/she remained as an assistant will be granted upon the return to the assistant position.
The employee retains the right to interview for any and all SNS managerial position as become vacant in the future.
New interns for the 2000-01 school year shall receive a 6.5% wage increase effective February 7, 2001, above what their rate of pay would have been prior to becoming an intern for this school year. Current second year interns shall receive a 12% pay increase effective February 7, 2001. No current second year intern will be paid at a lower rate than a first year intern with no prior school food service experience. If such case should occur, the affected second year intern would be paid at the rate of a first year intern with no previous school food service experience.
E.	Proof of current certification by the American School Food Service Association Foundation, Inc., which has been earned and presented to the School Food Service Department prior to June 30 each year shall determine the pro-rata supplement for the following fiscal year payment. The compensation will be paid by December 15 of each year to each employee who maintains active certification status.
The total amount available on a pro-rata basis will be $6,800.
F.	Upon promotion and/or upward reclassification an employee shall have his/her pay increased to the proper step which would place the employee at least 6.5% at the closest step above his/her current hourly rate or above the new base rate of pay whichever is greater. No loss in hourly rate shall occur to an employee being promoted and/or upward reclassification.
G.	Campus Advisors step schedule implementation: Effective July 1, 1994, the maximum placement is Step 3. Effective July 1, 1995, the maximum placement is Step 4. Effective July 1, 1996, and thereafter the maximum placement in Step 5. Upon promotion, and/or upward reclassification, an employee may receive up to five (5) years of service credit for outside experience consistent with the duties under the new classification, providing that the employee had not received credit for such service at the initial date of hire.
Section 4	- Expenses
Official travel and per diem or subsistence expenses within and without the school district shall be made and reimbursed in accordance with Florida Statutes and State Board Administrative Rules.
29
Section 5	- Longevity Pay
"Service" as used in this provision means creditable service under the Florida Retirement System which has been verified under FRS.
A.	To be eligible, the potential retiree must have:
1.	twenty-five (25) years or above of verified service
2.	ten (10) years of service in Volusia County at retirement time
3.	Bus Operators who attain the age of sixty (60) years and have twenty-one (21) years of creditable service including ten (10) years in Volusia County are eligible to enter the longevity cycle. Failure to achieve verification of the twenty-first (21st) year will waive the right of payment for that year.
B.	The longevity pay will be paid in the five (5) years immediately before normal retirement. It will consist of increments of $500 the first year of the cycle, $550 the second, $600 the third, $650 the fourth and $700 the last year before retirement.
C.	For longevity pay, verification of creditable service will be the responsibility of the individual. Failure to achieve verification of the twenty-sixth (26th) year will waive the right of payment for that year.
Section 6	- Out of Class Pay
Whenever an employee temporarily is charged to perform in general duties and responsibilities of a position in a higher rated classification that are separate and distinct from those of the employee's own position for a period of any five or more full consecutive days, the employee shall be compensated, retroactive to the time the assignment took place, at an amount equal to the minimum step of the pay range for the temporary position or at one step above the employee's current rate of pay, whichever is greater.
Section 7	- Attendance Bonus
For every quarter of perfect attendance in the employee’s contract year, except for the use of compensatory time and pre-approved vacation, an employee shall receive a bonus equal to one day’s pay. If an employee has perfect attendance throughout their contract year, except for the use of compensatory time and pre-approved vacation, they shall receive an additional bonus equal to one day’s pay. Bonuses will be paid at the end of the contract year.
Section 8	- Paydates
When a paydate falls within the winter break, spring break, or a scheduled non-work day, the Board shall arrange for employees to receive their checks on the last work day prior to the non-work day. The intent of this requirement is to ensure that employees within the bargaining unit are paid according to the same schedule as employees in other bargaining units, with the exception of end of the school year paychecks.
30
Section 9	- Vehicle Mechanics Certification
Vehicle Mechanics shall receive $100.00 annually for each certification received and maintained in the ASE certification test series.
ARTICLE XXII
UNIFORMS AND CLOTHING ALLOWANCE
The Board agrees to provide the uniforms or uniform allowance as listed below:
A.	Student Nutrition Services Employee:
The board shall supply uniforms for each non-probationary employee. Each non-probationary employee within the first thirty (30) days of returning to work for the new school year will be fitted for uniforms.
B.	Transportation and Campus Advisor Employees
The Board shall supply uniforms for each non-probationary employee. Each non-probationary employee with one year of service as of December 1, will receive an annual (uniform) allowance of $75.00 for the purchase of approved uniform accessories. Campus advisors will receive five school shirts per contract year.
C.	Uniforms for Transportation and Maintenance Mechanics, Helpers, and Custodians.
1.	The following non-probationary employees will have the equivalent of eleven (11) shirts and eleven (11) pants available to them every two (2) weeks:
Transportation Mechanics and Helpers
Maintenance Mechanics and Helpers
Maintenance Vehicular Mechanics
2.	The following non-probationary employees will have the equivalent of eleven (11) shirts and eleven (11) pants available to them every two weeks.
Custodians
Head Custodians
D.	Warehouse Employees
1.	Non-probationary warehousemen and deliverymen will have the equivalent of eleven (11) shirts and eleven (11) pants available to them every two (2) weeks.
2.	Non-probationary freezer workers and drivers and helpers of freezer trucks will have insulated jackets, insulated gloves and insulated boots available to them.
E.	Coveralls shall be made available in all shops in the Maintenance and Transportation Departments.
31
ARTICLE XXIII EVALUATIONS
A.	Each employee's job performance shall be evaluated at least once annually. The evaluation is the considered opinion of the evaluator. Each employee shall receive a copy of his evaluation. The completed evaluation shall be signed by the employee. The signature of the employee does not constitute a concurrence or approval of the evaluation. The Board will endeavor to standardize evaluation procedures in all departments during the contract year. The Board agrees to notify the Union prior to implementation of any changes in the evaluation instrument. Employees will be notified of any changes in the evaluation instrument prior to its implementation.
B.	AFSCME bargaining unit members, with the exception of School Food Service Managers, are prohibited from evaluating other AFSCME bargaining unit members. Head custodians, shall be permitted to evaluate custodians and shift leaders whom they supervise. Training in employee evaluation will be provided to head custodians. In the preparation of an evaluation, the principal or worksite supervisor may elicit input from a bargaining unit member.
ARTICLE XXIV
MISCELLANEOUS AGREEMENTS
A.	The Board will discontinue the irregular splitting of shifts for custodial employees except in emergencies.
B.	The Board agrees to replace tools considered to be basic for respective jobs as designated by supervisor. To be considered for replacement, a broken tool must be reported to the supervisor or his designee by the end of that work day. This replacement is restricted to tools broken on the job.
C.	Each employee shall receive an annual report as of March 31st which shall include; hourly rate, number of hours paid for annual employment for the previous 24 pay periods and primary job classification. The report will be prepared and distributed in a timely manner following the ratification of the contract.
D.	The number of annual leave and sick leave days used and the number of annual leave days' balance will be shown on the statement of earnings and deductions.
E.	Custodians shall not be required to supervise students at any time except in emergencies.
F.	An employee shall not be required to transport School Board property in his personal vehicle
except in case of an emergency.
G.	The cost of printing the Agreement will be shared equally between parties. The quantity printed and the size of print will be mutually agreed upon. Distribution shall be the responsibility of the Union.
H.	Inservice training will be offered to all custodians.
I.	The Board shall consider providing a substitute custodian whenever a regular custodian is absent for more than three (3) working days.
3 2
J.
Reasonable effort shall be made to notify annually contracted employees who are not recommended for reappointment at least 9 working days prior to the last day of their contract.
ARTICLE XXV
MISCELLANEOUS AGREEMENTS - Emergencies
During times of emergencies, Volusia County School District employees are expected to maintain public services and to meet new service needs brought about by the emergency conditions. Service demands may go beyond the scope of regularly assigned duties, calling on staff to assume new responsibilities and remain on duty for extended periods of time. The Volusia county School District and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, in the interests of maintaining a safe environment for the students during times involving critical incidents such as severe weather, hazardous material spills, fire, or other emergency situations, agree to the following:
1.	Should an event such as is stated above occur during the time when the District is responsible for the school children, members of the bargaining unit will cooperate with the administration in taking the steps necessary to reasonably provide for the students’ safety. If such actions require service beyond the regular work day, the administration shall work with the bargaining unit personnel to see that while first providing for the security of the students, reasonable request by personnel to ensure the safety of their own families will be accommodated. The District will make reasonable efforts, when possible, to provide time off prior to the onset of potential disaster for employees designated as essential to secure their homes and see to the safety of their families.
Since it may not always be possible, it is imperative that employees have an emergency plan in place to address their family’s safety in their absence. Scheduled or approved leave is subject to cancellation.
2.	Any position may be designated by the administration as an Essential Position (EP).
Essential Position: EP personnel must be available to report to duty for emergency preparations and may be required to remain on duty throughout an emergency event. Such employees will support the maintenance of critical services and/or recovery efforts. EP personnel are required to advise their supervisor of their location and contact information throughout the emergency.
All other personnel must remain available during an emergency. Employees will report to their supervisor or designated point of contact at their next report time.
3.	In the event that the superintendent officially closes a school, district office, or a combination of work centers to employees;
a.	Employees shall be paid for their regularly scheduled hours. Should the superintendent reschedule the workday for a later date, the employee shall be deemed to have been compensated in advance, and will receive no additional compensation.
b.	In the event that an employee is called in to work by their supervisors on emergency days when the work site is closed, the employee shall be compensated, in addition to the compensation discussed in the prior paragraph, as follows:
1.	For hours worked during regular work hours, the employee shall receive their regular rate of pay.
33
2.	For hours worked after regular work hours not in excess of forty (40) hours paid per week, the employee shall receive their regular hourly rate.
3.	For hours worked after regular work hours in excess of forty (40) hours paid per week, the employee shall receive one and one half (1 4) their regular hourly rate.
4.	Compensatory time may be provided instead of the additional pay provided under paragraphs 1, 2 & 3 above, if the administrator and employee agree.
4.	Should either party wish to discuss actions taken during an event as stated above, the parties shall meet to discuss the issues.
ARTICLE XXVI
MISCELLANEOUS AGREEMENTS-TRANSPORTATION
Section 1	- Summer Employment
A.	The Board shall notify operators, by letter no later than fifteen (15) working days prior to the end of the traditional school year of eligibility for summer employment.
B.	Summer work will be assigned by seniority. Summer work shall be bid as per the annually established summer seniority list.
C.	Upon implementation of summer work assignment the director must approve all changes.
Section 2	- Extra Curricular Field Study Trips
A.	At the beginning of employment and the beginning of each school year thereafter, operators will indicate in writing, whether they will accept after hour, between hour and/or emergency, extra-curricular field study trips.
1.	Extra Curricular Field Study Trips - Where a school or other entity contracts with Student Transportation Services to transport students to an activity on a certain, specific day.
2.	Once operators indicate the type(s) of trips they will accept, a commitment has been made. Refusal of more than two (2) extra-curricular after/between hour trips will remove the employee from all trip rotation rosters. Excused refusals shall be for personal illness, or illness or death of an immediate family member, or prior approved leave in accordance with School Board Policy. Extra curricular field study trips will be rotated according to seniority.
3.	Any bus operator, who fails to make an extra trip without proper notification, forfeits the right to extra trip assignments for the balance of the school year. Operator shall have the right to the appeals process as per current practice.
4.	Bus operators who signed YES to the trip assignment preference and were removed due to shop work, mid-day Pre-K run, after school tutorial or activity run may be reinstated ONLY if the assigned task is administratively changed/canceled.
34
5.	Field study trips will be assigned according to geographical areas.
6.	A record of all extra trips will be posted on a semi-monthly basis.
7.	Substitute bus operators will be assigned ONLY in the case of emergencies.
B.	Definition of Trip Types
1.	After Hour Trips: Field study trips beginning after 5:00 p.m. school days, weekends, holidays, and non-school days.
Bus operators will be assigned by seniority.
2.	Between Hour Trips: Field study trips beginning after 9:15 a.m. and end before 1:30 p.m. on school days.
Bus operators will be assigned by seniority if available. (Available is identified as not conflicting with established home-school-home route). Bus operators not available for trip will be given next available trip. (Rotation list shall show date N/A and make up trip).
Bus operators assigned a between hour trip on the same day as an after hour trip will classified as not available for the between hour trip and be given the next available trip.
3.	Emergency Trips: Field study trips assigned within seventy-two (72) hour of a trip.
Available bus operators will be assigned by seniority.
Bus operators not available shall show date N/A on rotation list. (Rotation list shall show date N/A)
NO penalty for refusals.
NO make up trips.
C.	Trip Cancellations
Bus operators who are scheduled to make extra trips shall receive twelve dollars ($12.00) minimum trip wages for extra trips which are cancelled within six (6) hours prior to designated start of the trip.
Bus operators shall be assigned next available trip for any trip cancelled after assignment.
Rotation list will show trip assignment date with “C” for cancelled trip and make up trip date in rotation block.
Section 3	- School Bus Routes
A.	School bus routes shall be defined as regular routes. Regular route: A route scheduled to be run on a daily basis involving primarily “home to school to home” transportation of students, including ESE students.
3 5
B.	Routes shall not be classified as temporary for more than forty-five (45) working days unless extenuating circumstances occur.
C.	Route information will be made available by the area manager upon request.
D.	The Board will provide bus operators and bus attendants information, when available,
indicating special attention for special needs students.
E.	Routes are subject to change based upon student needs including changes in Individual Education Plans (IEP) and changes in enrollment.
F.	The bidding on regular routes shall be done by seniority at each geographical area at the beginning of each year. AFSCME will be notified in advance whenever the transportation geographical area which services a school is to be changed. AFSCME shall have the right to demand bargaining over the impact of the change(s) on the employees’ wages, hours, terms and condition on employment to the extent required by law. The term “impact” shall be defined as loss in compensation.
G.	Routes vacated by termination, separation, administrative placement, leave of absence, newly established routes and student enhancement routes will be posted for bid. Routes will be awarded to the senior most operator. Routes vacated by the bid process shall be filled with unassigned operators.
H.	Bus operators will not be evaluated on the conduct of students at bus stops, except as required by school district responsibilities under Florida Statutes, Board Policy, and/or Student Transportation Services procedures.
Section 4	- Operations
A.	Only Certified Bus Operators will drive school buses.
B.	Bus attendants will be assigned based upon student IEP’s and student needs.
C.	Whenever possible substitute bus attendants will be provided when the regular bus attendant is absent.
D.	All pre-trip and post trip compensation, as required in student transportation services procedures, shall be included in allocated route time.
E.	It is the responsibility of the bus operators to keep the bus interior clean and next at all times according to existing regulations and policies.
F.	Each bus operator/attendance shall have a five (5) hour minimum day based on 185 days per school year except as follows:
1.	The Board may hire, on a limited basis, less than five hour minimum operator with a guarantee of two and one-half (2 1/2) hours to run either a morning route or an afternoon route. Operators with less than five hours shall be used, no more than necessary. In no event shall a less than five hour operator be used in a morning and afternoon in place of, or to replace a regular route. Extended time will be computed on a weekly basis beyond a twenty-five (25) hour work week.
36
2.	During any period of time in which schools on a modified school calendar are in session and schools on traditional calendar are not in session, or in which schools on a traditional school calendar are in session and school on a modified calendar are not in session, employees whose routes serve both a school(s) on a traditional school calendar and a school(s) on a modified school calendar shall have a four (4) hour guarantee, However, such employees regular route assignment shall include no less than 925 hours per school year.
G.	A bus operator/attendances normal day shall not be broken into more than two (2) segments, excluding special routes. Special routes shall be posted for bid. Bidding will be done by seniority, contingent upon the operator not having a conflict with his or her regular route and the assignment not causing the district to incur an overtime payment obligation. A special route is a route scheduled to run on a daily basis which is not part of a regular route and which would not involve transportation of students during regular home to school to home normal school hours.
H.	The Board shall establish a procedure to provide for required physical exams for regular bus operators who have been re-appointed for the next school year at no cost to the employee. Such procedures shall not be negotiable, and the employee must abide by the procedure in order to obtain this benefit.
I.	Committees consisting of no more than four (4) persons appointed by Union and no more than four (4) persons appointed by the Superintendent or designee shall be established for operations and for fleet to study and provide input to the administration or make recommendations, whichever is appropriate, on the following issues:
1.	Regular route, special route and extra trip assignment procedures.
2.	Compliance with new Federal mandates.
3.	Issues that arise in the course of business.
The committee shall meet as is agreed to be necessary in order to provide input and make recommendation for changes to procedures. The purpose of the committee shall be for the means of continuing communications, and is not intended to be used to discuss pending grievances or for the purpose of negotiations.
ARTICLE XXVII
SAVINGS CLAUSE
If any provision of this Agreement is in contravention of the laws or regulations of the United States or of this State, by reason of any court action or existing or subsequently enacted legislation; or if the appropriate governmental body having a mandatory power to change a law, rule or regulation which is in conflict with a provision of this Agreement fails to enact or adopt an enabling amendment to make the provision effective in accordance with Section 447.309(3), Florida Statutes; then such provision shall not be applicable, performed or enforced; but the remaining parts or portions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the term of the Agreement. This contract shall be interpreted in accordance with all applicable State and Federal law.
37
ARTICLE XXVIII DURATION
This agreement shall be effective upon completion of ratification by the Union and adoption by the Board, and shall remain in full force and effect through June 30, 2006. If either party so desires to alter or renew this agreement upon its expiration, a written notice must be submitted to the other party prior to May 1, of the year in which the agreement expires.
In the event that the Board and Union fail to secure a final agreement prior to the expiration date of this agreement, the parties may mutually agree in writing to extend this agreement for a specific period of time.
By consent of both parties any Article may be opened at any time.
For the 2004-05 and 2005-06 fiscal years, Article XXI, Salary and Fringe Benefits and up to two additional articles may be opened for negotiation by either party. In addition, AFSCME shall also have the right to raise the issue of the Career Path in the reopener for the 2004-05 fiscal year.
Notice hereunder shall be given by registered or certified mail and if by the Board, shall be addressed to AFSCME, Florida Council 79, 1310 W. Colonial Drive, Suite 28, Orlando, Florida 32804, and if by the Union, shall be addressed to Superintendent of Schools, P.O. Box 2118, DeLand, Florida 32720. Either party may by a like written notice, change the address to which notice shall be given. Notices shall be considered to have been given as of the date shown on the postmark.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents to be signed and sealed the 9th day of December, 2003.
PRESIDENT
AFSCME Local 850
AFSCME Local 850
AFSCME Local 850
AFSCME Local 850
AFSCME Local 850
AFSCME Local 850
Chairman, School Board of
Volusia County
Superintendent, School Board of Volusia County
Chief Negotiator, School Board of Volusia County
38
AFSCME Local 850
AFSCME Local 850
AFSCME Local 850
Chief Negotiator
AFSCME Council 79
39
Appendix A
OCCUPATIONAL GROUPS
Certified by Florida Public Employees Relations Commission Certification 487 as amended by PERC Order Number 89-282 October 2, 1989
All regular full-time and regular part-time employees, regardless of source of funding, employed by the Volusia
County School Board in the following job classifications:
Bus Operators
Custodian
Custodian/Shift Leader
Head Custodian
Ground Crew
Security Guard
Technician
Warehouseman
Food Service Manager
Food Service Assistant Manager
Food Service Assistant
Food Service Intern
Lunchroom Hostess
ROTC Clerk
Gasoline Terminal Attendant
Deliveryman
Truck-Driver, Heavy Equipment Operator
Mechanic - Transportation
Mechanic - Maintenance
Mechanic's Helper - Maintenance
Mechanic's Helper - Transportation
Bus Aide
Campus Advisor
Mental Health Technician
40
AFSCME SALARY SCHEDULE FY04
Appendix B
Step	Level 1	Level 2	Level 3	Level 4	Level 5A	Level 5	Level 6	Level 7A	Level 7	Level 8	Level 9	Level 10	Level 11	Level 12	Level 13	Level 14	Level 15	Level 16
1	7.98	8.06	7.97	8.29	8.54	8.48	8.48	9.38	9.54	8.91	9.22	9.96	11.12	13.19	9.24	9.56	8.68	9.25
2	8.41	8.37	8.28	8.72	8.99	8.86	8.86	9.75	9.80	9.36	9.51	10.29	11.49	13.44	9.69	10.01	8.97	9.57
3	8.67	8.64	8.55	8.99	9.24	9.11	9.11	10.14	10.19	9.62	9.75	10.55	11.75	13.72	9.95	10.27	9.17	9.82
4	8.95	8.91	8.82	9.24	9.50	9.38	9.56	10.51	10.58	9.88	10.02	10.87	12.10	13.96	10.21	10.54	9.44	10.11
5	9.31	9.15	9.06	9.50	9.74	9.65	10.02	10.90	10.98	10.15	10.28	11.26	12.36	14.21	10.47	10.80	9.84	10.37
6	9.65	9.43	9.34	9.74	9.98	9.89	10.48	11.27	11.36	10.41	10.56	11.64	12.62	14.46	10.74	11.07	10.22	10.64
7	10.02	9.69	9.60	9.98	10.25	10.17	10.95	11.65	11.76	10.68	10.81	12.05	12.89	14.72	11.00	11.33	10.63	10.90
8	10.02	9.95	9.86	10.25	10.50	10.43	11.40	12.04	12.15	10.93	11.08	12.43	13.13	14.96	11.26	11.58	11.01	11.26
9	10.02	10.21	10.12	10.50	10.76	10.69	12.48	12.42	12.55	11.19	11.33	12.85	13.41	15.22	11.52	11.84	11.40	11.56
10	10.02	10.47	10.37	10.76	11.02	10.95	13.09	12.81	12.94	11.47	11.59	13.22	13.68	15.59	11.78	12.12	11.79	12.12
11	10.02	10.74	10.65	11.02	11.26	11.21	13.09	13.18	13.34	11.72	11.87	13.63	13.93	15.84	12.06	12.39	12.19	12.49
12	10.02	11.67	10.91	11.94	12.20	11.48	13.09	13.55	13.73	11.97	12.13	14.01	14.20	16.11	12.30	12.63	12.58	12.49
13	10.02		11.84			11.74	13.09	14.62	14.80	12.97	12.38	14.40	14.45	16.37	13.23	13.66	12.98	12.49
14						12.00	13.09	14.62			12.65	14.79	14.72	16.62			13.37	12.49
15						12.99	13.09	14.62			12.91	15.19	14.99	16.89			13.77	12.49
16								14.62			13.94	16.34	16.12	18.02			14.84	12.49
Utility Crew	
Step	Rate
1	8.70
2	8.98
3	9.16
4	9.41
5	9.67
6	9.92
7	10.19
8	10.45
9	10.73
10	10.98
11	11.23
12	11.51
13	11.76
14	12.03
15	12.29
16	13.28
Level 1 = Bus Attendant; Level 2 = Custodian; Level 3 = Truck Driver; Level 4 = Head Custodian 1 - 3.49, Shift Leader; Level 5 = Warehouse, Deliverymen; Level 5A = Head Custodian 3.5 - 7.49, Ancillary Custodians; Level 6 = Health Support Technician, Mechanic Helper, ; Level 7 - Bus Operator, Bus Dispatcher; Level 7A = Class A Deliverymen; Level 8 = Head Custodian 7.5 - 12.49; Level 9 = Heavy Equipment Operator; Level 10 = Mental Health Technician/Caseworker; Level 11 = Mechanic;
Level 12 = Facility Maintenance Technician; Level 13 = Head Custodian 12.5 - 16.49, Warehouseman/Freezer; Level 14 = Head Custodian 16.5 +; Level 15 = Technician, Environmental Mechanic Helpers; Level 16 = Campus Advisor
41
Student Nutrition Services-Salary Schedule FY 04
																
			SNS	SNS	SNS		Managers									
			Asst. 1 /	Asst. 2 /	Asst. 3		Step	Elementary		Middle		High School				
			Dining	Dining					400 &		500 &		500 &			
		Step	Aides 1	Aides 2				0 - 399	Above	0-499	Above	0 - 499	Above			
																
		1	7.04	7.51	7.99		1	11.00	11.60	12.19	12.79	12.79	13.38			
		2	7.25	7.73	8.23		2	11.34	11.94	12.55	13.19	13.19	13.78			
		3	7.48	7.96	8.49		3	11.68	12.30	12.92	13.58	13.58	14.20			
		4	7.69	8.20	8.74		4	12.03	12.66	13.31	13.98	13.98	14.62			
		5	7.92	8.46	8.99		5	12.40	13.03	13.70	14.41	14.41	15.07			
		6	8.16	8.71	9.27		6	12.77	13.42	14.12	14.83	14.83	15.51			
		7	8.41	8.96	9.55		7	13.17	13.83	14.54	15.28	15.28	15.98			
		8	8.65	9.24	9.83		8	13.56	14.25	14.97	15.74	15.74	16.46			
		9	8.91	9.52	10.12		9	13.96	14.67	15.43	16.21	16.21	16.95			
		10	9.38	10.00	10.64		10	14.38	15.12	15.89	16.69	16.69	17.46			
		11	9.66	10.31	10.96		11	15.10	15.87	16.69	17.53	17.53	18.33			
		12	9.66	10.31	10.96				plus $ .35 for senior managers							
		13	9.66	10.31	10.96				plus $.15 for one year college							
		14	9.66	10.31	10.96				plus $.15 for 2nd year colleg			e				
		15	9.66	10.31	10.96											
																
		Interns: 6 % percent above current salary 2nd Year Interns: Negotiated raise Interns do not have steps. Current new interns to receive 6 % % above what their rate of pay would have been prior to becoming an intern for FY 2004 No 2nd year intern will be paid at a rate lower than an intern with no school food service experience new to the Volusia County School System														
																
																
																
																
																
42
School Way Cafe Institute	Appendix C
Assistant and Manager Career Ladder
Assistant 1
Requirements:
None, no high school diploma or GED, but must enroll in program prior to completion of probationary period
Must complete Foundations class during first year of employment
Salary as per AFSCME salary schedule
Assistant 2
Requirements:
High school diploma or GED
Must complete Foundations class during first year of employment
Six and one half percent pay increase above Assistant 1 level upon attainment of diploma or GED; salary as per AFSCME salary schedule
Assistant 3
Requirements:
High school diploma or GED,
1	year’s successful employment with Volusia County School Way Cafe
Satisfactory score on district administered math test
Successful completion of one of the two 12-week district-taught training courses
1.	Quantity Food Preparation
2.	Food Service Record Keeping
Admission of qualified candidates into the training program will be by seniority
Six and one half percent pay increase above Assistant 2 upon successful completion of SNS training course; salary as per AFSCME salary schedule
Assistant 4
Requirements:
Have met all requirements for Assistant 3
Plus 1 additional year (2 total) successful employment with School Way Cafe
Same salary level as Assistant 3; will receive a $250 training bonus for successful completion of the other 12 week district training course that was not taken to reach Assistant 3 level
Additional $250 training bonuses available, limit one per school year, for successful completion of selected, approved college level classes at DBCC: Nutrition, PC Applications
Intern:
Requirements:
High School Diploma or GED
Successful School Food Service Experience or Successful Commercial Food Service Management Experience
Must complete Foundations class during first year of employment
One to maximum of two year training program in preparation for management.
Must complete Quantity Food Preparation class during internship or if hired as a manager after only 1 year in internship, within the first year as a manager
43
Six and one half percent pay increase upon start of program; new employees as per AFSCME salary schedule (6 Z? % above assistant 2 starting salary)
MANAGERS
Level One: School Way Cafe Manager
Requirements: Successful completion of:
High School Diploma or GED
Foundations, an Introduction to Volusia School Food Service
Quantity Food Preparation
Manager Internship
Salary level as per AFSCME salary schedule
Level Two: School Way Cafe Accredited Manager
Requirements: Successful completion of:
All of the above
Successful completion of one year as a manager in Volusia County Schools
High School Diploma or GED
Acceptable score on the math test
Successful completion of 12 week training class to be taught by the district staff
Acceptance of qualified candidates for class will be by seniority
Salary: Same as Level One Manager, $250 training supplement to be paid upon successful completion of training
Additional $250 training bonuses available, limit one per school year, for successful completion of selected, approved college level class at DBCC: nutrition, PC applications
Level Three: School Way Cafe Senior Manager
Requirements:
All of the above
Successful completion of two years as a manager in Volusia County Schools
Successful completion of Quantity Food Preparation class if grand-parented in to level 1 without Quantity Foods class.
Successful completion of college 3-credit hour nutrition class
Maintain a superior rating on the annual Accuclaim Review on paragraphs pertaining to the cafeteria.
Accurate inventory levels as evidenced in annual inventory check by district staff.
Willingness to train interns
Must re-certify every 4 years by successful completion of a 6-class Senior Manager Update Course taught by the district staff.
Salary level: an additional $ .35 per hour as long as all certification requirements stated above are met.
44
Appendix D
PAY FOR SKILLS PROGRAM
MECHANICS	RANGE	MT-1	MT-2	MT-3
Air Conditioning	$11.05 - $15.55	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.
Electrical	$11.05 - $15.55	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.
Energy Management	$11.05 - $15.55	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.
Refrigeration	$11.05 - $15.55	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.
Plumbing	$11.05 - $15.55	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.
Fire Alarm	$11.05 - $15.55	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.	$1.00/hr.
FMT’s	$13.11 - $17.39	$.80/hr.	$.80/hr.	$.80/hr.
Carpentry	$11.05 - $15.55	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.
Automotive	$11.05 - $15.55	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.
Communications	$11.05 - $15.55	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.
Environmental	$11.05 - $15.55	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.
Welding	$11.05 - $15.55	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.
Painting	$11.05 - $15.55	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.
Roofing	$11.05 - $15.55	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.
Irrigation	$11.05 - $15.55	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.
Warehouse	$11.05 - $15.55	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.
Heavy Equipment Operator	$ 9.16 - $13.45	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.	$.65/hr.
Technician	$ 8.63 - $14.32	$.40/hr.		
Utility	$ 8.65 - $12.82	$.40/hr.		
Helper	$ 8.43 - $12.40	$.40/hr.		
Delivery	$ 8.43 - $12.53	$.40/hr		
45
Appendix E
SICK LEAVE BANK
PURPOSE:
To enable employers to provide protection in cases of long term catastrophic illness and to encourage employees to "SAVE" sick leave for a valuable future economic benefit (terminal leave).
PRINCIPLES:
1.	To become a member of the Sick Leave Bank, an employee must have accumulated ten sick leave days at the annual enrollment period.
2.	Enrollment will be open year round.
3.	To utilize "bank days," the member must have been a member of the sick leave bank for at least ninety (90) days and must first use all other accumulated days and be off the payroll for five days. Sick Leave Bank members who elect to cash-out their available sick leave balance at the end of the previous fiscal year and then request “bank days” will be required to go on unpaid leave for the same amount of time that was cashed-out. At the end of the unpaid leave period, sick bank days may be accrued. This requirement will not affect those who have used all their sick leave days due to illness or injury, nor does this requirement affect employees who are in DROP and their annual sick leave 20% cash-outs.
4.	Members will be granted two times the number of days they have accumulated at the beginning of their illness to a maximum of 50 days.
5.	Days from the bank may only be used for extended personal physical or mental disability.
6.	The bank will be administered by the union.
7.	In case of extreme hardship, the bank administrators may grant additional days voluntarily given by other bank members.
8.	If the bank is depleted during the school year, members may be assessed up to two additional days in any given year.
9.	The union will determine the eligibility of membership in the Sick Leave Bank.
46
Appendix F
I.	Florida Statute 231.291 - Personnel Files
Public school system employee personnel files shall be maintained according to the following provisions:
(1)	(a) Except for materials pertaining to work performance or such other matters that may be cause for
discipline, suspension, or dismissal under laws of the state, no derogatory materials relating to an employee's conduct, service, character, or personality shall be placed in the personnel file of such employee.
(b) No anonymous letter or anonymous materials shall be placed in the personnel file.
(2)	(a) Materials relating to work performance, discipline, suspension, or dismissal must be reduced to
writing and signed by a person competent to know the facts or make the judgment.
(b)	1. No such materials may be placed in a personnel file unless they have been reduced to
writing within 45 days, exclusive of the summer vacation period, of the school system administration becoming aware of the facts reflected in the materials.
2.	Additional information related to such written materials previously placed in the file may be appended to such materials to clarify or amplify them as needed.
(c)	A copy of such materials to be added to an employee's personnel file shall be provided to the employee either:
1.	By certified mail, return receipt requested, to his address of record; or
2.	By personal delivery. The employee's signature on a copy of the materials to be filed shall be proof that such materials were given to the employee, with the understanding that such signature merely signifies receipt and does not necessarily indicate agreement with its contents.
(d)	An employee has the right to answer in writing any such materials in a personnel file on July 1, 1983, as well as any such materials filed thereafter, and the answer shall be attached to the file copy. An employee has the right to request that the superintendent or his designee make an informal inquiry regarding materials in his personnel file which the employee believes to be false. The official who makes the inquiry shall append to the material a written report of his findings.
(e)	Upon request, an employee, or any person designated in writing by the employee, shall be permitted to examine the personnel file of such employee. The employee shall be permitted conveniently to reproduce any materials in the file, at a cost no greater than the fees prescribed in s. 119.07(1).
(f)	The custodian of the record shall maintain a record in the file of those persons reviewing the file each time it is reviewed.
(3)	(a) Public school system employee personnel files are subject to the provisions of s. 119.07(1),
except as follows:
1.	Any complaint and any material relating to the investigation of a complaint against an employee shall be confidential and exempt from the provisions of s. 119.07(1) until the conclusion of the preliminary investigation or until such time as the preliminary investigation ceases to be active. If the preliminary investigation is concluded with the finding that there is no probable cause to proceed further and with no disciplinary action taken or charges filed, a statement to that effect signed by the responsible investigating
47
official shall be attached to the complaint, and the complaint and all such materials shall be open thereafter to inspection pursuant to s. 119.07(1). If the preliminary investigation is concluded with the finding that there is probable cause to proceed further or with disciplinary action taken or charges filed, the complaint and all such materials shall be open thereafter to inspection pursuant to s. 119.07(1). If the preliminary investigation ceases to be active, the complaint and all such materials shall be open thereafter to inspection pursuant to s. 119.07(1). For the purpose of this subsection, a preliminary investigation shall be considered active as long as it’s continuing with a reasonable, good faith anticipation that an administrative finding will be made in the foreseeable future. An investigation shall be presumed to be inactive if no finding relating to probable cause is made within 60 days after the complaint is made.
2.	An employee evaluation prepared pursuant to s. 231.17(3), s. 231.29, or s. 231.36 or rules adopted by the State Board of Education or local school board under the authority of those sections shall be confidential and exempt from the provisions of s. 119.07(1) until the end of the school year immediately following the school year in which the evaluation was made. No evaluation prepared before July 1, 1983, shall be made public pursuant to this section.
3.	No material derogatory to an employee shall be open to inspection until 10 days after the employee has been notified pursuant to paragraph (2)(c).
4.	The payroll deduction records of an employee shall be confidential and exempt from the provisions of s. 119.07(1).
5.	Employee medical records, including psychiatric and psychological records, shall be confidential and exempt from the provision of s. 119.07(1); provided, however, at any hearing relative to the competency or performance of an employee, the hearing officer or panel shall have access to such records.
The exemptions contained in this paragraph are subject to Open Government Sunset Review Act in accordance with s. 119.14.
(b	) Notwithstanding other provisions of this subsection, all aspects of the personnel file of each employee shall be open to inspection at all times by school board members, the superintendent, and the principal, or their respective designees, in the exercise of their respective duties.
(c	) Notwithstanding other provisions of this subsection, all aspects of the personnel file of each employee shall be made available to law enforcement personnel in the conduct of a lawful criminal investigation.
(4)	The term "personnel file" as used in this section, means all records, information, data or material maintained by a public school system, in any form or retrieval system whatsoever, with respect to any of its employees, which is uniquely applicable to that employee whether maintained in one or more locations.
48
Appendix G
II. VOLUSIA COUNTY SCHOOL BOARD POLICY NUMBER 412 - EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL FILES
The school board shall maintain employee personnel files in accordance with Florida Statutes and Florida State Board of Education Administrative Rules.
Employee personnel files are maintained by the personnel department according to the following provisions:
I.	Maintenance of Personnel Files
A.	Personnel files include the following materials where appropriate: job applications, oath of
loyalty, records of appointment, transfer, leave of absence, resignation and/or separation; teaching certificates, evaluations, contracts, authorizations for salary payments and salary adjustments, college and university transcripts, verification of previous employment, and such other materials as permitted by Florida Statutes and Florida State Board of Education Administrative Rules.
B.	No anonymous letters or anonymous materials will be placed in the personnel file.
C.	The personnel file may not include derogatory materials except those pertaining to work
performance or such other matters that may be cause for discipline, suspension or dismissal.
D.	Materials related to work performance, discipline, suspension, or dismissal will be placed in the
personnel file according to the following provisions:
1.	Such materials must be in writing and signed by a person competent to know the facts or make the judgment.
2.	No such materials may be placed in a personnel file unless they have been reduced to writing within 45 days, exclusive of the summer vacation period, of the school system administration becoming aware of the facts reflected in the materials. Additional information relating to such written materials previously placed in the file may be appended to such materials to clarify or amplify as needed.
3.	A copy of such materials shall be provided to the employee either (a) by certified mail, return receipt requested, to his/her address of record; or (b) by personal delivery to the employee. The employee's signature on a copy of the materials to be filed shall be proof that such materials were given to the employee, with the understanding that such signature merely signifies receipt and does not necessarily indicate agreement with the contents.
4.	The employee has the right to answer in writing any such materials in his/her personnel file, and such answer will be attached to the file copy. A copy of the written answer will be provided to the employee's principal or department administrator. The employee may request that the superintendent or his designee make an informal inquiry regarding materials in his/her personnel file which the employee believes to be false. The official making the inquiry shall append a written report of his findings to the materials. A copy of such written report shall be provided to the employee.
E.	Personnel files maintained by a principal or department administrator shall contain only those materials of which the original or a copy is on file in the employee's personnel file maintained in the personnel department, or materials related to an evaluation in progress.
49
II.
Access to Personnel Files
A.	Employee Access to His/Her Own Personnel File
1.	An employee, or any person designated in writing by the employee, may review the employee's personnel file in the personnel department office, by appointment, during regular office hours, under the supervision of the assistant superintendent of human resource development or designee.
2.	Upon written request, an employee shall be afforded a copy of any materials in the file at a cost no greater than 5c per page.
B.	Public Access to Personnel files
1.	Employee files are open to public inspection except as follows:
a.	No employee evaluations completed prior to July 1, 1983 are open to the public.
b.	No employee evaluation completed on or after July 1, 1983 shall be open to the public until the end of the school year immediately following the school year which the evaluation is made.
c.	Payroll deduction records of an employee shall be confidential and not open to the public.
d.	Any complaint and any materials relating to an investigation or a complaint. against an employee shall be confidential until the conclusion of the preliminary investigation ceases to be active. An investigation shall be presumed to be inactive if no finding relating to probable cause is made within sixty (60) days after the complaint is made.
e.	Employee medical records, including psychiatric and psychological records, shall be confidential; provided, however, at any hearing relative to an employee's competency or performance, the hearing officer or panel shall have access to such records.
f.	No materials derogatory to the employee shall be open to inspection until 10 days after the employee has been notified as specified in paragraph I(D)(3) above.
2.	A request by anyone other than the employee to examine an employee's personnel file must be made in writing. A written notice will be sent to a currently active employee when access to his/her personnel file has been requested. The personnel file will be made available for examination in the personnel department office by appointment, during regular office hours, under the supervision of the assistant superintendent of human resource development or designee. Only those records which are open to public inspection will be made available for examination. The chief personnel officer or designee shall furnish copies of documents from an employee's personnel file upon written request. The written request must indicate the employee's name and specify the document(s) to be reproduced. The school board may charge a fee commensurate with the actual cost of copying the requested document(s). Only those documents which are open to public inspection by law will be allowed to be reproduced.
3.	A record shall be maintained in the employee's personnel file each time it is reviewed. This record shall include the name of the person reviewing the file, date of review and identification of any document(s) reproduced from the file. A copy of this record will be sent to the employee if currently employed.
C.	Official Access to Personnel files
1.	All aspects of each employee's personnel file, including material otherwise closed to public examination, shall be open to inspection at all times by school board members, the
50
superintendent and the principal or their respective designees in the exercise of their respective duties.
2.	All aspects of each employee's personnel file, including material otherwise closed to public examination, shall be made available to law enforcement personnel in the conduct of a lawful criminal investigation.
D.	All inquiries about, or request for access to, employee personnel files shall be referred to the
assistant superintendent of human resource development or designee.
Legal Authority:
Section 230.22(2), 230.32(3), Florida Statutes
Laws Implemented:
Chapter 119; Sections 231.29, 231.291, Florida Statutes
Rule, 6A-1.069, Florida Administrative Code
(Adopted -- May 8, 1984)
(Revised -- September 27, 1988)
(Effective -- September 27, 1988)
51
Appendix H
Memorandum of Understanding
1.	Head custodians shall be permitted to evaluate custodians and shift leaders whom they supervise. Training in employee evaluation will be provided to head custodians.
2.	Lead driver trainers shall be permitted to evaluate school bus operators’ ability to operate a school bus as observed on the check ride.
3.	A career ladder will be completed and in place for all maintenance employees during the first year of this contract, with such career ladder enabling employees to move to a higher level of compensation beginning July 1, 2001, provided the employee has completed the required training. A progress report will be made to the Union career path committee by April 1, 2001.
4.	The parties shall continue to discuss the issue of employees working in different classifications in order to determine if there is sufficient interest in the issue and if so what the conditions for such work will be.
5.	The Board shall, with input from AFSCME, develop an employee handbook to be produced and passed out in the 2001-02 school year.
6.	The Board and AFSCME shall establish a joint committee to examine the terms and conditions of employment for campus advisors, the salary schedule for those_employees as well as any issues that may exist in regard to parity with paraprofessional benefits. The recommendations of this committee shall be included, to the extent appropriate, in the agreement arrived at in the re-opener for the 2001-02 school year.
7.	In the School Way Cafe career ladder, the six and three quarter (6%) percent pay increase cited in Assistant 2, Assistant 3, and Intern shall be amended to reflect a six and one half (6/2) percent increase.
For the School District:
Superintendent
For the Union:
President
52