
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
MIAMI-DADE COUNTY,
THE MIAMI-DADE COUNTY AVIATION DEPARTMENT,
AND
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY
AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES, A.F.L.-C;I.O., MIAMI-DADE COUNTY AVIATION EMPLOYEES LOCAL 1542
OCTOBER 2002
SEPTEMBER 2005
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE NO.	TITLE
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 ’ 17 18 19 20 21 22	Agreement Bargaining Unit Nondiscrimination Check Off Grievance Procedure Arbitration Classification Appeal Job Description Performance Evaluation and Appeals Labor Management Conferences Union Stewards and Representatives Attendance at Meetings Bulletin Boards Strikes and Lockouts Hours of Work Overtime Compensation Call-Back Too1 Allowance Holidays Holiday Leave Productivity Management Rights and Scope of This Agreement
23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30	Toxicology and Alcohol Testing Night Shift Pay Differential Special Wage Provisions Back Pay Layoffs Acting Appointments Wages Aircraft Operating Area Proficiency Allowance
31 32 33	Airport Security and Safety Group Health Insurance Probationary Periods Within the Bargaining Unit
34 35 36 37 38	Promotions Within the Bargaining Unit Blood Bank and Donors Services to the Union Sick Leave Annual Leave
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
NO.
TITLE
Disability Leave
Disciplinary Action
Prevailing Benefits
Vehicles
Applicability of Agreement
Severability Clause
Physical Examinations
Voting
Military Leave of Absence
Term of Agreement and Reopening
Exhibit 1, 1A, IB - Classifications In Bargaining Unit
Signature Page
Index
Article 1	AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made and entered into on the first day of October, 2002 by and between Miami-Dade County, the Miami-Dade County Aviation Department (hereinafter referred to as the County and Department respectively) and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, Miami-Dade County Aviation Department Employees Local 1542 (hereinafter referred to as the Union). Said Agreement to be effective on the above date provided that it has been ratified by the Union and by the Board of County Commissioners of Miami-Dade County, Florida.
It is the intention of this Agreement to provide for salaries, fringe benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment where not otherwise provided for by Statute, Ordinance, Resolution, Personnel Rules. It is further the intention of this Agreement to promote harmonious relations between the County, the Department and the Union, and to provide for an orderly and just manner of handling grievances.
Upon ratification, the provisions of this Agreement will supersede Personnel Rules or Administrative Orders and other Rules and Regulations in conflict herewith.
1
Article 2	BARGAINING UNIT
1.	The County recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of the following defined employees as stated in P.E.R.C. Case No. RA-77-017, Certification No. 372 as amended by Case No. MS-78-001.
Included: All full-time and regular part-time personnel employed by the Miami-Dade County Aviation Department in County job classifications specifically defined in Exhibit 1 which is attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference.
Excluded: All professional, supervisory, managerial and confidential personnel employed by Miami-Dade County, and all temporary, seasonal, substitute and emergency personnel employed by Miami-Dade County (as defined in Miami-Dade County Personnel Rules, Chapter III, Section 8 (A), (B), (C), and (D) and all other employees.
Definition:	Regular part-time means those individuals
who work 20 hours or more per week for at least six months per year.
2.	Probationary, non-permanent, exempt, and regular part-
2
time employees covered by this Agreement shall continue to be governed in all respects by the Code of Miami-Dade County, • Florida, Personnel Rules, Pay Plan and other regulations in effect prior to the execution of this Agreement and there shall be no change in any of the wages, benefits, hours, or terms and conditions of employment of such employees as a result of this Agreement unless such changes are specifically stated in this Agreement with reference to such employees.
3.	It is agreed that if and when new position classifications are created by action of the Board of County Commissioners and the Aviation Department such new classifications shall be in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement if such positions are consistent with Section 1, above. If a dispute arises it will be settled in accordance with State Law.
Article 3	NONDISCRIMINATION
It is agreed that there shall be no discrimination against any employee, covered under this Agreement, by the Union, the Department or the County because of race, color, sex, creed, national origin, age, political affiliation, religion, membership in the Union, or for engaging in any lawful Union activities.
This Article is intended to comply with Federal, State and local regulations solely concerning the criteria enumerated above and shall
3
have no reference to any pending dispute between the Department, the County and the Union.
Article 4	CHECK OFF
Upon receipt of written authorization from an employee, the County agrees to deduct the regular Union dues of such employee from his bi-weekly pay and remit such deduction to the Union within 10 days of the date of deduction. The Union will notify the County, in writing, at least 30 days prior to any change in the amount of the regular dues deduction. The County, with at least 90 days prior written notice, will provide a payroll deduction for the Union's political action committee. An employee may, upon 30 days written notice to the County and the Union, revoke his dues deduction authorization, and the County thereupon shall cease to make such deduction. Should Chapter 447.303 Florida Statutes be amended, the amendment will supersede the applicable sections of this Article.
The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the County harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders, or judgments brought or issued against the County as a result of any action taken by the County under the provisions of this article.
Article 5	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
1.	In a mutual effort to provide harmonious working relations between the parties of this Agreement, it is agreed to and understood by both parties that the following shall be the sole
4
procedure for the resolution of grievances arising between the parties.
2.	A "Grievance" shall be defined as any dispute that an employee or the Union may have arising out of the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement. A class grievance shall be defined as any dispute which concerns two or more employees within the bargaining unit. Class grievances must name all employees or classifications covered in a grievance. Class grievances, at the option of the Union, may be submitted at step 2 or 3 and no more than three (3) employees plus a Union staff representative may meet with the intermediate supervisor or division head. Each grievance when filed shall state with particularity the alleged violation of the contract claimed, the date upon which the violation occurred, the facts of such violation, the Article of the contract violated and the remedy sought by the Union.
3.	Dismissals, demotions, suspensions, reductions in pay, reprimands, formal counselings, position classifications, classification appeals, performance evaluation appeals, disability determinations, job descriptions, and similar matters, for which other appellate procedures are provided in the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida, and/or County Personnel Rules or other provisions of this Agreement are not subject to review as grievances.
4.	Grievances shall be processed in accordance with the following procedure:
5
Step 1. The aggrieved employee, with the Union Steward, if the employee so desires, shall discuss the grievance with the immediate supervisor within seven (7) calendar days of the occurrence or knowledge giving rise to the grievance.
Step 2. If after discussion with the immediate supervisor the grievance has not been resolved, the grievance shall be offered, in writing, and shall be forwarded, immediately, to the intermediate supervisor. The intermediate supervisor's response shall be submitted in writing, to the Union, within seven (7) calendar days.
Step 3. If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 2, the Union Steward and/or the aggrieved employee and the Union Representative may appeal the grievance to the Head of the Division concerned, within seven (7) calendar days after the intermediate supervisor's response is due. The Head of the Division shall respond, in writing, within seven (7) calendar days.
Step 4. If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved in Step 3 hereof, the Union Steward and/or the aggrieved employee and the Union Representative may present the written appeal to the Director of the Department within seven (7) calendar days. The Director of the Department shall respond in writing, within seven (7) calendar days.
5.	If a grievance is not processed by the Union within the time limits provided for in Steps 3 and 4, the grievance shall be considered dropped with prejudice. If the County fails to process a
6
grievance within the time limits provided, the grievance shall
automatically proceed to the next step. Either party shall be permitted one (1) extension of time at aany step as a matter of right, not to exceed the seven (7) calendar days provided above for each step, provided that the other party must be notified of the requested extension prior to the expiration of the original seven (7) day time period.
6.	The parties acknowledge that, as a principle of interpretation, employees are obligated to work as directed while grievances are pending.
7.	All responses required in Steps 2, 3, and 4, above, shall be directed to the Union, with a copy furnished to the aggrieved employee. In class grievances, copies will be directed only to the Union.
8.	This grievance procedure shall suffice as the requirement for establishment of a plan for resolving employee grievances and complaints, as required in Section 2-42 (18) of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida and as required by Florida Statutes 447.401.
Article 6	ARBITRATION
1.	If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved within the grievance procedure, the Union may request a review by an
7
impartial arbitrator provided such request is filed in writing with the Director of Labor Management no later than twenty (20) calendar days after the Director of the Department's response is due in Step 4 of the grievance procedure.
2.	Upon receipt of a timely request for arbitration, on an arbitrable matter, the Director of Labor Management and the Union's representative will, within ten (10) calendar days, first attempt to agree on the selection of an Arbitrator. If they cannot mutually agree, then within ten (10) calendar days, the Director of Labor Management will write to the American Arbitration Association to set in motion the scheduling of the arbitration hearing. Matters that are not subject to review as grievances are non-arbitrable and shall not be scheduled for arbitration.
3.	The arbitration shall be conducted under the rules set forth in this Agreement and, where not in conflict with this Agreement, under the labor rules of the American Arbitration Association. Subject to the following, the arbitrator shall have jurisdiction and authority to decide a grievance as defined and submitted in this Agreement. The arbitrator shall have no authority to change, amend, add to, subtract from, ignore, modify, nullify, or otherwise alter or supplement this Agreement or any part thereof or any amendment thereto. The arbitrator shall have no authority to consider or rule upon any matter which is stated in this Agreement not to be subject to arbitration or which is not a grievance as defined in this Agreement, or which is not covered by this Agreement, nor shall this
8
Collective Bargaining Agreement be construed by an arbitrator to supersede any applicable laws.
4.	The arbitrator may not issue declaratory or advisory opinions and shall confine himself exclusively to the question which is presented to him, which question must be actual and existing.
5.	The County and the Union shall attempt to mutually agree in writing as to the statement of the matter to be arbitrated thirty (30) days after the request for arbitration is submitted. If in the event the parties cannot agree to the statement of issues to be submitted, then a written statement of the issues to be decided shall be presented to the arbitrator by each party and exchanged between the parties fourteen (14) days prior to the Arbitration Hearing.
6.	At the request of either party there shall be a certified court reporter at the hearing. The parties shall bear equally the expenses and fees of the court reporter, the arbitrator and all other expenses connected with a hearing. Each party shall bear the expense of its own witnesses, representatives, attorneys and all other individual expenses. Employees required to testify will be made available, however, whenever possible, they shall be placed on call to minimize time lost from work. Employees who have completed their testimony shall return to work unless they are the grievant or are directly required to assist the principal Union Representative in the conduct of the case. In class grievances, the class shall be represented by the Union President. The intent of the parties is to minimize time lost from work.
9
7.	The award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding when made in accordance with the jurisdiction and authority of this agreement. The arbitrator shall make his award within 30 days of the close of the hearing and shall promptly furnish copies to both parties.
8.	Matters excluded from the Grievance Procedure under Article 5, Section 3, and matters covered under Article 7, Classification Appeal, and Article 8, Job Descriptions, shall be excluded from Arbitration.
Article 7	CLASSIFICATION APPEAL
1.	Whenever an employee has reason to believe that he is misclassified, he may apply for a review of his classification, in writing, to his immediate supervisor.
2.	Such request, including a job description prepared by the employee and commented upon by the Department, shall be forwarded to the Personnel Services Division by the employee's department within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of request.
3.	Within thirty (30) calendar days of such receipt for request of reclassification, the Personnel Services Division shall render a decision.
10
4.	If the employee is not satisfied with the decision, he may within ten (10) calendar days, request a Hearing by the Employee Relations Director. At the hearing, the employee may be accompanied by a representative of his choosing and may produce any documents and evidence to support his claim for reclassification. The Employee Relations Director•will explain the basis for the decision in the event the request is denied. The Employee Relations Director shall hold such hearing within thirty (30) calendar days of the request.
The Employee Relations Director's decision shall be final, subject to review by the County Manager.
In the event the request for reclassification is upheld, the employee shall receive compensation beginning with the pay period that the original request was denied.
Article 8	JOB DESCRIPTION
1.	Employees covered by this Agreement shall not generally be required to work out of classification when personnel are available except under emergency conditions as declared by the County Manager or his authorized representative.
2.	It is understood by the parties, that the duties enumerated in job descriptions are not always specifically described and are to be construed liberally. In addition, employees shall perform related work as required.
11
3.	Whenever there is a proposed change in the job description or title of a class within this Bargaining Unit, the County shall discuss with the Union the proposed change in job descriptions. The Union shall receive a copy of the current job description and the proposed job description.
4.	If the Union is not satisfied with the proposed change, it may, in writing, within five (5) calendar days of the conclusion of the discussion, as stated in paragraph 3 above, request a hearing before the Employee Relations Director. This hearing shall be held at a mutually agreeable time, within thirty (30) calendar days.
The Employee Relations Director's decision shall be final, subject to review by the County Manager.
Article 9	PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND APPEALS
1.	The County shall retain the right to establish and administer a Performance Evaluation system to conduct annual performance evaluations of employees to appraise their productivity, effectiveness and compliance with rules and regulations. The purpose of evaluations are to improve performance generally, to identify and recognize superior performance, to facilitate communication between supervisors and employees, and to provide timely and accurate information which may be used in the making of personnel decisions related to employee performance.
12
2.	The permanent status employee who has received an overall evaluation of unsatisfactory or needs improvement may appeal by first requesting a review of the Performance ■’Evaluation by the Department Director or their designee(s), within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the evaluation. The Department Director or designee(s) may recommend changes alterations, or return the evaluation unchanged to the employee. If the decision of the Director or designee(s) is not acceptable to the employee, the employee may continue the appeal by making a request in writing to the Employee Relations Director within ten (10) calendar days after receipt of the Department Director's or designee(s) decision. The department has the right to have a representative present throughout the entire appeal hearing.
Performance Evaluation appeals are not subject to review as grievances and are not arbitrable.
3.	The Employee Relations Director will appoint a three (3) person supervisory level panel, none of whom shall be from the appealing party's department, to act as an informal fact-finding committee. Only the employee, the rater, and the reviewer will be heard, separately, by the panel. A representative of the employee's choosing may accompany the employee. The hearing shall be informal, a transcript is not to be kept and there will be no cross-examination. The employee representative may ask questions of the County witnesses through the panel chairman. Questions shall also be addressed to employee witnesses by panel members through the chairman. The purpose of the panel's review is to (1) determine
13
compliance with evaluation procedures, and (2) recommend whether the evaluation should be upheld and the reasons for this recommendation.
Within thirty (30) calendar days following the hearing the panel will submit a written report of their findings and decision to the Employee Relations Director. A majority of the panel may sustain or revise the evaluation, either because of failure to follow procedure or on the merits of the evaluation itself. The Employee Relations Director will forward the panel's findings and decisions to the Department Director for implementation.
Article 10	LABOR-MANAGEMENT CONFERENCES
Department Management and the Union agree to meet and confer on matters of interest upon the written request of either party. The written request shall state the nature of the matters to be discussed and the reason(s) for requesting the meeting. Discussion shall be limited to matters set forth in the request, but it is understood that these special meetings shall not be used to renegotiate this Agreement. Such special conferences shall be held within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of written request and at a time and place mutually agreeable to both parties. The Union or the Department shall have the right, at these special meetings, to bring up other matters for discussion by mutual consent of both parties.
The Union shall be represented by the President and not more than five (5) Union Representatives. Names of representatives shall be
14
certified to the Aviation Department Director and the Director of Labor Management of Miami-Dade County.
Performance Based Compensation Projects
The Union agrees to work cooperatively with the County to develop and implement performance based compensation projects involving bargaining unit classifications. These performance based compensation projects shall be joint ventures, representing a collaborative effort between the County and the Union, to effect meaningful performance based productivity gains, that are designed to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the Department.
Either party shall have the right, at any time during the term of this Agreement, to reopen the Agreement with respect to Performance Based Compensation Projects. The County agrees that it cannot unilaterally implement changes which would conflict with the terms of this collective bargaining agreement.
Efficient Delivery of Quality Services
Miami-Dade County and employees shall fully cooperate in the efficient and effective delivery of quality services.
15
Employees are encouraged to report suggestions of cost savings or methods of increasing efficiency and purchasing new equipment to the Department Labor-Management Committee.
In order to eliminate fear of employees cooperating in improved efficiency, it is understood and agreed the county will endeavor to offer comparable employment to any qualified employee displaced as a result of this program.
Article 11	UNION STEWARDS AND REPRESENTATIVES
1.	The Union shall have the right to select employees from within the unit to act as Union Stewards. The names of the employees selected as stewards shall be certified by the Union, in writing, to the Aviation Department and the Director of Labor Management of Miami-Dade County.
2.	It is agreed to and understood by the parties to this Agreement that Union Stewards may, without loss of pay, with prior approval of their supervisor, process grievances. The supervisor's approval will not be unreasonably withheld.
3.	It is further agreed that the Union may appoint fourteen (14) Union Stewards within the bargaining unit as defined.
4.	It is agreed to and understood by the Union that Stewards shall process grievances in such a manner as to not disrupt normal
16
County and Department activities, work production and services. This provision shall also be extended to Representatives of the Union who are not employees of the County, and who have been certified in writing to the Director of Labor Management of Miami-Dade County.
Article 12	ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS
1.	Five (5) officers or other representatives of the Union shall be allowed time off without loss of pay from their regular employment, when necessary, to negotiate with the County regarding terms and conditions of employment. These employees shall be designated in writing to the Department Director and the Labor Management Director for Miami-Dade County. The Union shall give reasonable notice to the employees' supervisors.
2.	Two (2) representatives of the Union shall be authorized time off without loss of pay to attend any of the following conventions:
An International Convention of AFSCME which is held every second year;
State Conventions of the AFL-CIO which are held twice a year.
The maximum number of days allowed per convention per person shall be five (5). These employees shall be designated in writing to the Department Director. The Union shall give reasonable notice to the employees' supervisors.
17
3.	The Union President will be released from duty with pay to administer this Agreement.
Article 13	BULLETIN BOARDS
The Department will provide for the Union's nonexclusive use of bulletin boards at locations mutually agreed to by the Department and the Union. If such is deemed necessary by the Department and the Union, at certain locations the Department shall ensure that the bulletin boards are covered and lockable, with keys to be controlled by the appropriate Division Chief and the Union President or their designees.
All notices and materials placed on the bulletin boards shall bear on their face the legible designation of the person or organization responsible for placing such items on the bulletin board. Notices placed on bulletin boards may include reports of Union activities, copies of materials, including newspapers, of interest to Union members, announcements of Union meetings, election, and social and recreational events, and the like. Bulletin boards which are not locked may also be used for posting of materials relating to personal affairs, such as sale of personal property, requests for shift changes, and the like.
No materials which are inflammatory, derogatory or of a political nature shall be permitted on any bulletin board and the Department shall have the right to remove such materials. Materials posted on
18
bulletin boards visible to the general public shall be approved, in advance, by the Aviation Department.
Article 14	STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
There will be no strikes, work stoppages, sickouts, picketing while working, slowdowns or other concerted failure or refusal to perform assigned work by the employees or the Union and there will be no lockouts by the County or the Department for the duration of this Agreement. The Union guarantees to support the County and the Department fully in maintaining operations in every way.
Any employee who participates in or promotes a strike, work stoppage, picket line while working, slowdown, sickout or concerted failure or refusal to perform assigned work may be discharged or otherwise disciplined by the County or the Department.
It is recognized by the parties that the County and the Department are responsible for and engaged in activities which are the basis of the health and welfare of our citizens and that any violation of this Article would give rise to irreparable damage to the County, the Department and to the public at large. Accordingly, it is understood and agreed that in the event of any violation of this Article, the County or the Department shall be entitled to seek and obtain immediate injunctive relief and all other relief as provided by law. Provided however, in any action brought by the County, it is agreed that the Union shall not be responsible for any act alleged to constitute a breach of this Article if the Union did
19
not instigate or support such action. In the event of a strike, work stoppage or interference with the operation and accomplishment of the mission of the Aviation Department, the President of the Union shall promptly and publicly order the employees to return to work and attempt to bring about a prompt resumption of normal operations.
Article 15	HOURS OF WORK
1.	This article is to be construed only as a basis for determination of overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of work per day or per week nor is it limitation upon the Department's right to reduce the employees' hours of work.
2.	The standard work week commences at 12:01 a.m. each Monday and ends at 12:00 p.m. midnight the following Sunday.
3.	The standard number of working hours during any standard work week will normally be forty (40) hours unless otherwise specified in the Pay Plan for County Service.
4.	The County and the Department shall make every effort to rotate schedules within assigned shifts to distribute weekend assignments equally.
5.	An employee shall not have his/her regular work schedule changed solely to avoid the payment of overtime. However, work schedules changed due to operational necessity, as determined by the
20
Department, shall not be considered as changing work schedules to avoid the payment of overtime.
Article 16	OVERTIME COMPENSATION
1.	All work authorized to be performed by non-job basis employees in excess of 40 hours of work per work week shall be considered overtime work. Additionally, all work authorized to be performed by non-job basis employees in excess of the normal work day, as determined by the Department, shall be considered overtime work provided that overtime hours worked will not be included in determining the normal work week.
2.	Employees performing overtime work shall be paid time and one-half at their regular hourly rate of pay.
3.	An employee required to work three (3) hours immediately before or two (2) hours immediately beyond his normal shift shall receive one-half (1/2) hour off with pay for a meal break. Such one-half (1/2) hour shall be considered as time worked.
4.	Time off with pay on a County recognized holiday shall be considered as time worked. This shall not apply to a County recognized Holiday which is not worked and falls on an employee's regularly scheduled day off, in this case the employee shall receive eight (8) hours Holiday Leave. Holiday Leave will be counted as time worked for the purpose of calculating the payment of overtime compensation.
21
5.	Overtime shall not be paid more than once for the same hours worked.
6.	The parties agree that assignments and authorization of overtime work shall rest solely with the Department. Giving consideration to the organization subdivisions of the Department, assignments and shifts, and the ability to perform the work, the Department shall attempt to distribute overtime work among employees as equally as practicable.
7.	Overtime earned shall be reflected on the pay stub.
8.	This Article is intended to be construed only as a basis for calculation of overtime and shall not be construed as a guarantee of hours of work per day or per week.
9.	Job basis employees shall not be eligible for overtime compensation.
Article 17	CALL BACK
Employees called back to work shall be guaranteed at least four (4) hours pay, provided such work does not immediately precede or immediately extend the employee's regularly assigned work shift. Such employees may be required to work at least four (4) hours.
22
Article 18	TOOL ALLOWANCE
1.	Employees in the position classifications of Airport Carpenter, Airport Electrician, Airport Plumber, Airport Refrigeration Mechanic, Airport Welder, Airport Maintenance Mechanic, Airport Electronic Electrical Equipment Technician 1, Airport Electronic Electrical Equipment Technician 2, Airport Fire Protection System Technician, Airport Automotive Mechanic, Airport Construction Equipment Mechanic, Airport Heavy-Duty Truck Mechanic, Airport Motorcycle Mechanic, Airport Lighting Technician 1, Airport Hydraulic Mechanic, Airport Mechanical Equipment Technician 1, Airport Mechanical Equipment Technician 2, Airport Locksmith, and Airport Machinist who are required by the Aviation Department to provide their own hand tools in accordance with required tool lists, established and maintained by the Department, for each classification, will receive $435.00 per year as a total tool allowance to be paid bi-weekly installments of $16.73 each pay period.
2.	Each employee required by Aviation Department policy to provide his own hand tools in accordance with the required tool lists shall have such tools available on the job to perform assigned tasks. Employees accept responsibility to use proper tools for particular jobs in accordance with accepted practices or instructions of supervisors. Failure to comply with the requirements of this Article shall result in the loss of the tool allowance for the pay periods in which such noncompliance occurs.
23
3.	Employees who are unable to complete a full year in pay status shall receive the tool allowance prorated on a bi-weekly basis
for all pay periods completed.
Article 19	HOLIDAYS
1.	The following days shall be considered holidays:
New Years Day
Martin Luther King's
Birthday
President's Day
Memorial Day Independence Day
Labor Day
Columbus Day
Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Friday after Thanksgiving Christmas Day Employee's Birthday* 1 Floating Holiday
2.	Regarding the Floating Holiday, the Department may require as much as two weeks prior notice. The holiday must be used within the fiscal year. The actual day to be used is subject to the mutual convenience of the employee and the Department. Only full-time employees with more than nine pay periods of County Service are eligible for this holiday. If the holiday is not requested, there shall be no compensation.
*In the event this holiday falls on a previously established
holiday, or an employee's regular day off, another day of the
24
employee's choice within two weeks, shall be designated, in agreement with the Department.
3.	The County, at its discretion, shall retain the sole right and authority to determine and schedule the actual day on which a County recognized holiday will be observed.
Article 20	HOLIDAY LEAVE
1.	Holiday Leave shall be a term used to credit employees who are required to work on a holiday. Holiday Leave may be used for the same purpose as annual leave and is payable upon separation.
2.	Holiday Leave can be accrued to a maximum of 160 hours for those employees designated as non-job basis by the Pay Plan.
3.	All employees shall be paid for outstanding Holiday Leave at time of separation only. Such payment shall be at the employee's current pay rate at separation (except that night shift differential
shall not be included in determining pay rate).
4.	Holiday Leave shall be credited to job basis employees on an hour-for-hour basis to a maximum of eight (8) hours for each holiday worked.
5.	Non-job basis employees shall have the option at the time
Holiday Leave is earned of either being paid or accruing the Holiday
25
Leave. Holiday Leave shall be credited to non-job basis employees as outlined below in Sections 6, 7, 8, and 9 of this Article.
6.	Non-job basis employees who work on a holiday which falls on a regularly scheduled day off shall receive twelve (12) hours Holiday Leave and time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) during that week.
7.	When a holiday falls on a regularly scheduled day off and the non-job basis employee does not work, he/she shall receive eight (8) hours Holiday Leave.
8.	Non-job basis employees who work on holidays falling on regularly scheduled work days shall receive hour-for-hour Holiday Leave, or straight time pay, for each hour worked to a maximum of eight (8) hours.
9.	Employees who regularly work 4 ten-hour days per week shall receive fifteen (15) hours of Holiday Leave under Section 6, above, and ten (10) hours of Holiday Leave under Section 7 and 8 above.
Article 21	PRODUCTIVITY
The parties to this agreement recognize that the employer's position in performing the assigned mission is enhanced by increased efficiency in the use of labor and employee productivity.
26
The parties agree that increased productivity and efficiency depend upon the continuous development and implementation of modern and progressive work practices.
The Union agrees to encourage employees to find better and more efficient methods of performance and to cooperate with the employer in the conservation of manpower, materials and supplies; the elimination of wasteful practices and the improvement of the quality and quantity of product and/or service.
The parties agree that a part of the Labor-Management Committee meetings will be to review and evaluate recommendations of employees and management designed to increase productivity either directly or indirectly through identification of inefficiencies in work production, changes in work practices or rules, strengthening morale, or improving communications between employees and management. The Labor-Management Committee may make written recommendations to increase productivity which will be presented to the Director of the Department for his consideration.
Article 22	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS AND SCOPE OF THIS AGREEMENT
1.	The Union recognizes that the County and the Department possess the sole right to operate and manage the Department and direct the work force, and the rights, powers, authority and discretion which the County and Department deem necessary to carry out their responsibilities and missions shall be limited only by the specific and express terms of this Agreement.
27
2.	The County reserves the right and authority to establish, implement, revise or modify policies, procedures, and all other rules and regulations including but not limited to, Administrative Orders, Personnel Rules, Pay Plan, and Department Rules or Regulations, not in conflict with the express written provisions of this Agreement. This right and authority shall include but is not limited to the County's right to revise promotional criteria and determine the duration of promotional eligibility lists.
3.	These rights and powers include, but are not limited to the authority to:
a.	Determine the missions and objectives of the Department;
b.	Determine the methods, means, and number of personnel
needed to carry out Department responsibilities and the continued right to contract out for goods and services provided that the County give the Union at least sixty (60) days written notice in contracting out for services currently being performed solely by bargaining unit employees. Effective upon ratification of this Agreement, the current 60 days written notice will be increased to 90 days written notice. The County will provide to the Union copies of Requests for Proposals that specifically pertain to the contracting out for services that are currently being performed solely by bargaining unit employees. The County agrees that, when a Department submits a written
28
recommendation to contract out for services currently being performed by bargaining unit employees, a copy of such recommendation shall be sent forthwith to the Union. This clause shall not be construed as a waiver of any other right either party may have under this Agreement or applicable law.
c.	Take such actions as may be necessary to carry out services during emergencies declared by the Aviation Department or the County Manager.
d.	Direct the work of the employees, determine the amount of work needed, and in accordance with such determination relieve employees from duty or reduce hours of work. In addition, relieve employees from duty or reduce their hours of work for lack of work or funds or other legitimate reasons in accordance with procedures contained in County Rules and Regulations.
e.	Discipline or discharge employees for just cause in accordance with applicable sections of the Code of Miami-Dade County, Florida and/or Personnel Rules;
f.	The right to make reasonable rules and regulations for the purpose of efficiency, airport security, safe practices and discipline. The County will inform the Union of any changes in the existing rules and regulations and the
29
establishment of new rules and regulations before- such changes are made effective.
g.	Schedule operations and shifts;
h.	Introduce new or improved methods, operations and facilities;
i.	Hire, promote, transfer and assign employees;
j.	Schedule overtime work as required.
4.	Management rights shall be exercised by the County in a manner that is not arbitrary, discriminatory or capricious.
5.	The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which preceded this Agreement each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. This Agreement, including its supplements and exhibits attached hereto, concludes all collective bargaining between the parties during the term hereof, and constitutes the sole, entire and existing Agreement between the parties hereto, and supersedes all prior Agreements and undertakings, oral and written, express or implied, or practices, between the County and the Union or its
30
employees, and expresses all obligations and restrictions imposed on each of the respective parties during its term.
Article 23	TOXICOLOGY AND ALCOHOL TESTING
The County and the Union recognize that employee substance and alcohol abuse can have an adverse impact on Miami-Dade County government, a Department's operations, the image of County employees and the general health, welfare and safety of the employees, and the general public.
The Department shall have the right to require Toxicology and Alcohol Testing as part of any provided physical examination.
The Department shall also have the right and authority to require employees to submit to toxicology and alcohol testing designed to detect the presence of any controlled substance, narcotic drug, or alcohol. The Department agrees that requiring employees to submit to testing of this nature shall be limited to circumstances that indicate reasonable suspicion to believe that the employee is under the influence of such substances, suffers from substance or alcohol abuse, or is in violation of the Miami-Dade County Personnel Rules, or Departmental Rules and Regulations regarding the use of such substances.
It is further understood by the parties that the aforementioned authority to require that employees submit to such testing be approved by the concerned Division Director, or higher authority
31
within the Department to ensure proper compliance with the terms of this Article.
The results of such tests may result in appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Code of Miami-Dade County, the Miami-Dade County Personnel Rules and Departmental Rules and Regulations. Employee refusal to submit to toxicology or alcohol testing in accordance with the provisions of this Article may result in disciplinary action up to and including dismissal, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the County Code, the Miami-Dade County Personnel Rules and Departmental Rules and Regulations.
Employees reasonably believed to suffer from substance and/or alcohol abuse may be referred at the Department's discretion, to the Employee Assistance Program. However, voluntary participation in a substance or alcohol abuse program shall not preclude the Department from taking disciplinary action against the employee for violation of the Miami-Dade County Personnel Rules or Departmental Rules and Regulations.
Article 24	NIGHT SHIFT PAY DIFFERENTIAL
1.	Employees assigned to work shifts which have the major portion of the scheduled hours of the work occurring between the shift hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., shall be entitled to receive
32
a pay differential of sixty cents ($.60) per hour for the entire work shift.
2.	Employees assigned to work shifts which are equally divided before and after 6:00 p.m. will be entitled to receive a pay differential of forty cents ($.40) per hour for the entire work shift.
3.	Employees receiving night differential as of October 1, 1979, including employees assigned and designated by the County to a rotating night shift, will receive either the above cents-per-hour differential or have the amount of their current shift differential frozen in cents per hour, whichever is greater. Employees receiving night differential as of October 1, 1979, who are removed from a rotating night shift by the County and reassigned to the day shift and have the night shift differential removed and are subsequently reassigned to a night shift shall receive either the sixty cents ($.60) per-hour or forty cents ($.40) per-hour shift differential, whichever is appropriate.
4.	Employees who work a regular day shift and are required to work a complete night shift immediately preceding or following his normal shift will be paid at the night shift rate for the second shift. If a complete second shift is not worked, then the employee shall not receive the night shift differential and will be paid at the day rate for the additional hours worked.
33
Employees who work a regularly assigned night shift will receive the night shift rate for all hours worked that immediately precede or follow his regular night shift. Employees who work a shift which does not immediately precede or immediately follow his/her regular shift will be compensated at the hourly rate for that shift.
5.	Night shift pay differential is a "plus item" and not to be construed as part of base pay for purpose of terminal paid leave, payment of compensatory time or holiday leave upon separation from the County service.
6.	Employees will not be transferred or rotated from one shift to another, by the County, solely for the purpose of avoiding payment of night shift differential.
Article 25	SPECIAL WAGE PROVISIONS
1.	PAY ADVANCES: An employee may request his vacation pay checks in advance of any scheduled annual leave by submitting a request to the department payroll office at least three (3) weeks prior to leaving on annual leave.
2.	LONGEVITY BONUS: Employees with fifteen (15) years of continuous full-time service shall receive a longevity bonus on their anniversary date and each year thereafter. Deferment for leave of absence shall be deductible and not considered as a break in service.
34
The annual longevity bonus payments will be paid in accordance
with the following schedule:
Years of Completed Full-Time Continuous County Service	Percentage Payment of Base Salary
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 or more	1.5% 1.6% 1.7% 1.8% 1.9% 2.0% 2.1% 2.2% 2.3% 2.4% 2.5% 2.6% 2.7% 2.8% 2.9% 3.0%
3.	EMERGENCY WORK: When	an emergency is declared by the
County Manager and all employees are generally excused from work because of the emergency, those employees required to work during an emergency will receive one and one-half (1 1/2) times the normal pay rate for all time worked during the emergency. This shall not apply to job-basis personnel. The County possesses the sole right and authority to take any emergency action as determined necessary to carry out services and adjust operational requirements during any emergency or extraordinary circumstances as determined solely by the County Manager or his authorized representatives.
35
4.	UNIFORM CLEANING ALLOWANCE: Aviation Department employees who are provided uniforms which are required by departmental policy to be dry cleaned shall receive $10.00 bi-weekly. The County reserves the right to continue or to return to its prior practice of maintaining uniforms which it purchases for its employees; in that event the $10.00 payment shall not be paid.
5.	Work In a Higher Classification - In the event an employee is authorized by the Department to work in a higher pay status classification for more than five (5) consecutive days, he/she will receive the in-hiring rate of pay for the higher classification or a one pay step increase in his/her current rate of pay, whichever is higher, for all consecutive hours worked in the higher classification. The night shift differential shall be removed before determining an employee's pay rate for work in a higher classification.
6.	ENTRANCE PAY RATES - For all employees hired into the County Service on or after November 1, 1991, the entrance pay rate for all bargaining unit classifications shall be pay step 1 of the appropriate pay range provided in the Miami-Dade County Pay Plan. Progression from the entrance level pay of step 1 to step 2 shall be at six (6) months (13 pay periods) based upon satisfactory or above satisfactory job performance. Progression from step 2 to the maximum step in the pay range shall be at one (1) year (26 pay periods) intervals thereafter based upon satisfactory or above satisfactory job performance.
36
7.	Pay Supplement - Effective the beginning of the first pay period in July, 2003, full-time bargaining unit employees will be eligible to receive a $25.00 biweekly pay supplement. Effective the beginning of the first pay period in July, 2004, this supplement will be increased by $25.00 biweekly to a total of $50.00 biweekly.
Article 26	BACK PAY
The County shall be entitled to recover, in a timely manner, all funds determined by the County to have previously been paid in error to an employee. The County shall have the right to effect such recovery of funds through a stipulated bi-weekly paycheck deduction, at a bi-weekly rate equal to the bi-weekly rate of the erroneous pay to the employee, or at the minimum rate of fifty dollars ($50) per pay period, whichever rate is greater. The specific recovery rate shall be determined through an agreement between the concerned employee and the Employee Relations Department, upon notification to the concerned employee. The concerned employee shall have ten (10) calendar days from date of notification to contact the appropriate payroll representative and stipulate to a specific recovery rate in accordance with this contract provision. Failure by the concerned employee to make the necessary arrangements within the specified ten (10) calendar day period shall result in the necessary paycheck deductions being automatically effected by the County at a rate the County deems appropriate.
The County has the right to recover the full amount of erroneous payments to an employee in the event the employee separates from
37
County service, including the right to make necessary deductions from the employee's terminal leave pay.
Article 27	LAYOFFS
1.	Layoff is defined as the separation of an employee for lack of work or funds, or due to reduction in services, or for other legitimate reasons, as determined by the County or Department without fault or delinquency on the employee's part. The County agrees to provide the "Union" with a list of the names of the employees being laid off and such notice shall be sent at the same time that it is issued to the employees so affected.
2.	Employees to be laid off shall be notified as soon as possible after the decision for layoff has been made. In no event shall the County give such employees less than three weeks' notice.
3.	Layoff Lists: In the event of a layoff the Employee Relations Director, in conjunction with the Personnel Services Division Director, shall determine the county-wide classifications that are equivalent to the affected positions for retention purposes and will determine the bumping series county-wide. The bumping series, as determined solely by the Employee Relations Director, shall be defined as a series of positions related in terms of the duties, experience and education requirements. Similar classifications county-wide may be treated as common classifications, as determined solely by the Employee Relations Director, for purposes of bumping. For example, a Clerk Typist 2, Water and Sewer Clerk Typist 2 and
38
Airport Clerk Typist 2 may be treated as common classes for layoff and bumping purposes. Employees shall be laid off in accordance with seniority on the job and their performance ratings as provided in Personnel Procedures Manual Entry Retention List Establishment and County Layoff Procedures Manual. The term county-wide is understood between the parties to be defined as all operating departments and organizational entities within Miami-Dade County. When a layoff of a regular employee is necessary, from a position in a class in a series, the County will attempt to place the laid-off employee in another class to which it appears the employee is capable of occupying. Any accrued sick leave that was forfeited at the time of layoff shall be restored at the time of rehire.
a.	All employees in the classifications contained in Exhibit 1A are common classes for layoff and bumping among all County departments as provided above.
b.	Because of the unique requirements of their jobs, the classifications contained in Exhibit IB, for the purpose of applying County bumping procedures under a layoff, will be treated as unique Aviation Department positions. Only those employees having served and attained permanent status in these classifications will be eligible to exercise bumping rights into these positions. Vacancies in the classifications listed in Exhibit IB, with the exception of Airport Semi-Skilled Laborer, cannot be filled by bumping employees who have not previously served and attained permanent status in these positions. Only the vacant position of Airport Semi-Skilled
39
Laborer may be utilized for the purpose of placing a bumped employee who has not previously served in this classification.
4.	This Article shall not limit the County's right to reduce hours of work in lieu of a layoff.
5.	The County may require that employees bumping into a department as a result of a layoff related action satisfactorily demonstrate their proficiency to perform the essential functions of the new position within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed thirteen (13) pay periods, as determined by the concerned Department Director and approved by the Employee Relations Department. It is understood that employees bumping into a Department as a result of a layoff related action will receive appropriate orientation and training as determined necessary by the concerned Department. Employees failing to satisfactorily demonstrate their proficiency in performing the essential functions of their new position will be allowed to continue to exercise their classified service rights, in accordance with the provisions of the County's Layoff Procedures Manual.
Article 28	ACTING APPOINTMENTS
In the event an employee is placed by Department authorization in a position of "acting" for an employee temporarily absent from duty or in a permanently vacated position pending the establishment of an eligible list, such employee will be compensated at the in-hiring rate for the classification to which he/she is "acting" provided such
40
rate of pay is one (1) pay step higher than he/she is currently receiving, and further, any time that is spent in the acting title shall not be credited toward probationary time.
Article 29	WAGES
First Year 2002-2003
Effective the beginning of the first pay period in July, 2003, all employees in bargaining unit classifications shall receive a four percent (4%) wage increase. This wage increase shall not apply to employees whose pay rates are over maximum (red circled).
Second'Year 2003-2004
Effective the beginning of the first pay period in July, 2004, all employees in bargaining unit classifications shall receive a four percent (4%) wage increase. This wage increase shall not apply to employees whose pay rates are over maximum (red circled).
Third Year 2004-2005
Effective the beginning of the first pay period in July, 2005, all employees in bargaining unit classifications shall receive a three percent (3%) wage increase. This wage increase shall not apply to employees whose pay rates are over maximum (red circled).
41
Article 30	AIRCRAFT OPERATING AREA PROFICIENCY ALLOWANCE
A.	Full-time employees who have completed thirteen (13) pay periods in the Maintenance classifications of Airport Laborer, Airport Semi-skilled Laborer, Airport Automotive Service Helper, Airport Driver-Messenger, Airport Inventory Clerk, Airport Automotive Equipment Operator 1, Airport Automotive Equipment Operator 2, Airport Automotive Equipment Operator 3, Airport Carpenter, Airport Electrician, Airport Painter, Airport Plumber, Airport Refrigeration Mechanic, Airport Welder, Airport Sign Painter, Airport Maintenance Mechanic, Airport Electronic Electrical Equipment Technician 1, Airport Electronic Electrical Equipment Technician 2, Airport Automotive Mechanic, Airport Motorcycle Mechanic Airport Heavy Duty Truck Mechanic, Airport Construction Equipment Mechanic, Airport Maintenance Repairer, and Airport Lighting Technician 1, Airport Tree Trimmer, Airport Hydraulics Mechanic, Airport Refrigeration System Technician, Airport Fire Protection System Technician, Airport Waste Plant Operator, Airport Locksmith, Airport Machinist, Airport Mechanical Equipment Technician 1 and 2, and Airport Mason are authorized additional proficiency compensation for the added responsibility of special working conditions in the amount of a two pay step increase to the biweekly pay. It is understood and agreed that this allowance is for the benefit and protection of the public and is based upon the following criteria.
In the event a new bargaining unit classification of Airport Chemical Sprayer is established by the Personnel Services Division of
42
the Employee Relations Department, it is agreed that this classification will be eligible to receive this allowance effective the beginning of the first pay period Tollowing the date that this position is established in accordance with all terms, provisions and conditions contained in this Article.
B.	Aviation Department Maintenance personnel required to perform job assignments in aircraft operating areas and airfield areas must possess additional special skills not required of others, as follows:
1.	Qualified to accept and follow rigid safety standards to minimize or avoid probability of accidents of potential damage to persons and property of severe and extensive consequences.
2.	Qualified to comprehend, analyze and react quickly to impending danger.
3.	Qualified to identify potential areas and conditions of danger and avoid such areas and conditions.
4.	Qualified to perform job assignments under unusual conditions of high decibel sound frequencies and intermittent air blasts from propeller and jet aircraft.
5.	Qualified and knowledgeable to permit safe and intelligent movement of themselves and their vehicles and equipment from one point to another in the landing area (usually through
43
radio supervision from the tower) in accordance with.Federal Aviation and Department Rules and Regulations and proper airport techniques.
C.	Any employee who receives this allowance and fails to continue demonstrating the ability to work under the above conditions may be appropriately disciplined, including suspension of his proficiency pay to a maximum of three (3) months for each violation.
D.	Employees who work at jobs or in areas deemed by the Aviation Department Director to be dangerous shall be required to wear safety devices and/or equipment designated by that office as necessary for their protection, and may be disciplined for failure to wear or use safety devices and/or equipment. Such devices and equipment will be provided by the County.
Article 31	- AIRPORT SECURITY AND SAFETY
The County and the Union recognize the considerable importance of airport security and safety policies and procedures, and in the interest thereof, hereby agree as follows:
1.	All employees whose job duties require that they operate a motor vehicle of any kind on the Air Operations Area ("AOA") of any County airport shall be required to attend and successfully complete the AOA Driver Training Course conducted from time to time by the Department. All such vehicle
44
operators must possess and maintain current a valid,, appropriate Florida driver's license.
2.	All employees, while on the AOA and within designated security areas of a County airport, must conspicously display on their person the Department issued identification badge, together with any additional materials required by any Federal agency having jurisdiction over such area(s).
3.	All employees entering and working in or around arriving and departing international aircraft and facilities used or designated as controlled by the various Federal Inspection Services agencies may be subject to the consent and approval of such agencies.
4.	The Union acknowledges and understands that the provisions of this Article are for the protection of all users of the County's airports and are intended to improve safety and reduce the incidence of thefts, cargo tampering, aircraft sabotage and other unlawful activities at the County's airports.
ARTICLE 32	GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE
The County's contribution for group health insurance shall not exceed the amount it contributes toward single employee coverage and no contribution shall be made for dependent coverage.
45
The parties agree that bargaining unit employees will be afforded the opportunity to become members of a qualified Maintenance Organization pursuant to law and in accordance with all rules, regulations and procedures pertaining thereto prescribed by the County and the qualified Health Maintenance Organization.
The County's flexible benefits program will remain in effect during the term of this collective bargaining agreement. The parties agree that bargaining unit employees will be offered the opportunity to participate pursuant to law and in accordance with all rules, regulations, and procedures pertaining thereto prescribed by the employer and the Internal Revenue Code.
1.	The County's Group Health Insurance will be a Point of Service Managed Health Care Group Insurance Plan.
2.	The County will provide a $5.00 biweekly contribution to the Flexible Benefits Plan to employees enrolled in the JMH Health Plan HMO or the individual practice association model HMO currently administered by AV-MED.
3.	The County will provide a $10.00 biweekly contribution to the Flexible Benefits Plan to employees enrolled in the group/staff model HMO.
4.	The County will provide an annual $400 contribution to the Flexible Benefits Plan paid in biweekly increments for County employees eligible for group health insurance or the Flexible
46
Benefits Plan. Effective January 2003, this annual contribution will be increased by $200.00 to a total of $600.00. Effective January 2004, this annual contribution will be increased by $200.00 to a total of $800.00. Effective January 2005, this annual contribution will be increased by $200.00 to a total of $1,000.00.
5.	All employees enrolled in the County’s Point of Service/Managed Health Care Group Insurance Plan shall be required to pay three percent (3%) of the cost of single coverage of this plan.
ARTICLE 33	PROBATIONARY PERIODS WITHIN THE BARGAINING UNIT
All full-time classified service employees hired, reinstated, promoted, or transferred into bargaining unit classifications shall serve a twelve (12) month (twenty-six pay periods) probationary period.
ARTICLE 34	PROMOTIONS WITHIN THE BARGAINING UNIT
1.	When a job vacancy is frozen and there is a promotional eligible list in effect, the list will not be allowed to expire if it can be shown that the purpose of freezing the vacancy is solely to pass over those employees on the list.
47
2.	Employees interviewed for promotional opportunities, shall be notified of their acceptance or rejection, within a reasonable time. Employees interviewed and rejected for promotional opportunities will be counseled by the Department as to the reasons for such rejection, if such is requested by the employee.
3	. In cases when there is no examination required for a promotion, County Policy shall be to first consider present employees, provided the employee applying meets all requirements and is fully qualified.
ARTICLE 35	BLOOD BANK AND DONORS
Employees wishing to donate blood without renumeration shall be granted reasonable leave, with prior approval of their supervisor, without loss of pay, for the purpose of donating blood.
ARTICLE 36	SERVICES TO THE UNION
1.	The County agrees to furnish the Union, once a year, a copy of names, classifications, and addresses for all employees in this Bargaining Unit.
2.	The County agrees to notify the Union within reasonable advance of any public hearing in which personnel matters, relative to this Bargaining Unit are to be the subject of discussion.
48
3.	The County agrees to provide the Union with the following documents and publications; (One (1) copy, unless indicated otherwise).	4
Board of County Commission Agendas
Board of County Commission Green Sheets
Examination Announcements
Training and Benefit Bulletins Classifications Specifications (3) Employee Newspapers
Administrative Orders and Personnel Policy Procedures Proposed Budget Final Budget
Table of Organization
Pay Plan (4)
4. The County, upon written request, will provide the Union, at no cost, four (4) sets of labels per calendar year containing the names and addresses of bargaining unit employees. Any additional requests for labels shall be paid for by the Union.
ARTICLE 37 SICK LEAVE
1. The sick leave policy as stated in the Personnel Rules and County Leave Manual shall remain in force and effect.
49
2.	Full-time employees shall earn one (1) day of sick leave for each month of service in accordance with the County Personnel Rules and Leave Manual.
3.	That portion of an employee's first six (6) days that are unused at the end of the employee's leave year shall be added to the employee's annual leave, the balance shall be deposited in the employee's sick bank.
4.	Sick leave shall not be granted for pregnancy. However, sick
leave may be used for illnesses caused or contributed to by pregnancy.
5.	Employees who retire or resign from County service will be eligible to receive payment for up to a maximum of 1,000 hours of accrued unused sick leave at the employee's current rate of pay at time of separation, excluding any shift differential, prorated in accordance with the following schedule:
Less than 10	years	No	Payment
10 years but	less than 11 years	25%	payment
11 years but	less than 12 years	30%	payment
12 years but	less than 13 years	35%	payment
13 years but	less than 14 years	40%	payment -
14 years but	less than 15 years	45%	payment
15 years but	less than 16 years	50%	payment
16 years but	less than 17 years	55%	payment
17 years but	less than 18 years	60%	payment
50
18	years	but	less	than	19	years	65%	payment
19	years	but	less	than	20	years	70%	payment
20	years	but	less	than	21	years	75%	payment
21	years	but	less	than	22	years	77 .	5% payment
22	years	but	less	than	23	years	80%	payment
23	years	but	less	than	24	years	82.	5% payment
24	years	but	less	than	25	years	85%	payment
25	years	but	less	than	26	years	87 .	5% payment
26	years	but	less	than	27	years	90%	payment
27	years	but	less	than	28	years	92 .	5% payment
28	years	but	less	than	29	years	95%	payment
29	years	but	less	than	30	years	97 .!	5% payment
30	years	or more					100% payment	
All such payments described above are based on years of full-time continuous County employment with a maximum payout of 1,000 hours of accumulated sick leave.
Employees who retire after 30 years of full time County employment will be eligible to receive 100% payment of their full balance of accrued unused sick leave. Such payment will be made at the employee's current rate of pay at the time of retirement excluding any shift differential, and will not be subject to any maximum number of hours.
51
ARTICLE 38
ANNUAL LEAVE
1.	The present annual leave policy as stated in the County Personnel Rules and Leave Manual shall remain in force and effect. Employees may accrue annual leave up to a maximum of 500 hours.
2.	In order to recognize longevity of service, persons with six (6) or more years of continuous full time County service shall have the following additions to their annual leave:
Eight (8) hours Sixteen (16) hours Twenty-four (24) hours Thirty-two (32) hours Forty (40) hours
Forty-eight (48) hours Fifty-six (56) hours Sixty-four (64) hours Seventy-two (72) hours Eighty (80) hours
After six (6) years ...............
After seven (7) years..............
After eight (8) years..............
After nine (9) years...............
After ten (10) years...............
After sixteen (16) years...........
After seventeen (17) years.........
After eighteen (18) years..........
After nineteen (19) years..........
After twenty (20) years............
3.	All employees in this Bargaining Unit shall receive annually, a
statement of all leave (annual, sick and holiday) balances.
4.	The Department shall notify the employee that he is reaching the maximum amount of allowable annual leave accumulation. The employee shall then be allowed to reduce the annual leave to avoid the loss of excess accumulation of such leave. '
5.	Within subdivisions of the Department, in setting annual leave
schedules, preference as to annual leave dates will be given to
52
those employees with the greatest amount of service in the same classification.
6.	Whenever possible, employees scheduled for annual leave as noted above, shall be entitled to use the total amounts of leave earned during the leave year. But more than three (3) consecutive weeks shall be at the discretion of the Department.
ARTICLE 39	DISABILITY LEAVE
Eligible bargaining unit employees shall be entitled to short-term disability leave benefits in accordance with coverage provided by the Miami-Dade County Code except that payment for disability leave for all employees hired after May 1, 1979, shall be 80% of employee's salary less all Worker's Compensation weekly indemnity payments.
ARTICLE 40	DISCIPLINARY ACTION
All disciplinary actions except reprimands will be appealable by the employee, as provided in Section 2-47 of the Miami-Dade County Code, to a Hearing Examiner. The County agrees to attempt to add to the Hearing Examiner's list, qualified attorneys with experience in labor relations matters.
53
Discipline and/or counseling will normally be carried out in a manner which does not embarrass the employee. Neither formal nor informal counseling is considered to be disciplinary action. Both should be viewed as efforts to improve performance. An employee who receives a formal record of counseling will be permitted to attach a written rebuttal to the counseling form by submitting it within ten (10) calendar days from the receipt of the counseling. The formal record of counseling and rebuttal, if any, will be reviewed by the Supervisor of the employee who prepared the counseling, prior to it being placed in the affected employee's personnel file.
The Union will have the option on behalf of a permanent status bargaining unit employee, to appeal the disciplinary actions of dismissal, demotion, reduction in grade and suspension through the grievance procedure contained in Article 5 of this Agreement. The Union shall notify the Director of Labor Management in writing no later than fourteen (14) calendar days from the employees receipt of the disciplinary action of its decision on whether to exercise the option of appealing through the grievance procedure or request an appeal in accordance with Section 2-47 of the code of Miami-Dade County. The Union's choice between the grievance procedure or the Code provision under Section 2-47, once made, shall not be subject to change.
In the case where the Union does not timely notify the County or chooses not to select the grievance procedure, then the disciplinary appeal provisions under 2-47 of the Code of Miami-Dade County shall prevail and be utilized if a timely appeal is requested. In the
54
event the Union selects the option to appeal a disciplinary action under the grievance procedure then the provisions of 2-47’of the Code will not be applicable.	*
A suspension appeal through the grievance procedure may be filed by the Union directly at Step 3 or 4 of the Grievance Procedure contained in this Agreement.
The Department at their sole discretion, may offer to an employee the option of forfeiting accrued annual or holiday leave in lieu of serving a disciplinary suspension. Employees selecting this option, that is authorized by the Union President or their designated representative and approved by the Department, shall waive their right to any appeal action of the suspension. The documentation of the suspension will be a part of the employee's work record and remain in their personnel file.
ARTICLE 41	PREVAILING BENEFITS
Unless specifically provided for or abridged by this Agreement, all economic benefits in the knowledge of the parties currently in effect shall remain in effect.
ARTICLE 42	VEHICLES
The County shall have the sole right and authority to determine the assignment of vehicles and to remove the assignment at its discretion. The County Manager or his authorized representative
55
shall have the sole authority to determine vehicle assignments external to normal shift assignments. Vehicle assignments are understood by the parties to be based upon operational necessity as determined solely by the County.
ARTICLE 43	APPLICABILITY OF AGREEMENT
The general provisions herein contained, are mutually agreed to by the County, the Department and the Union. The specific provisions of this Agreement are mutually agreed to by the County, the Department and the Union and shall be binding on the County, the Department, the Union, or each, as the context may require. Provisions binding upon the Union shall be interpreted as binding upon all members of Bargaining Unit to abide by and to perform as specified. Provisions binding upon the County and the Department shall be interpreted as binding upon all administrative and other County or Department officials to abide by and perform as specified. Provisions of this Agreement obligating the County to grant certain benefits to the members of the Union shall be interpreted as representing the minimum commitment of the County to grant benefits to the members of the Bargaining Unit.
Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted as restricting the powers vested by law in the County Manager or the County Commission to provide additional benefits to any employee. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to prevent or restrict the County or the Department from entering into agreement with other organizations of
56
effective during the term of this Agreement and is greater than the wage increase provided for under Article 29 Wages, the Union will have the right to request the reopening of negotiations with respect to Article 29 Wages only.
Either party may require, by written notice to the other between June 1, 2005, and not later than June 30, 2005, negotiations concerning modifications, amendments, and renewal of this Agreement to be effective October 1, 2005. If neither party shall submit such written notice during the indicated period, this Agreement shall be automatically renewed for the period of October 1, 2005 through September 30, 2006.
59
EXHIBIT 1 BARGAINING UNIT AVIATION EMPLOYEES LOCAL 1542
OCCUPATIONAL TITLE AND OCCUPATIONAL CODE NUMBER
Airport Operations Specialist (9762)
Airport Operations Agent (9763)
Airport Operations Senior Agent (9764)
Airport Account Clerk (5338)
Airport Accountant 1	(5339)
Airport Architectural Drafter 2	(5489)
Airport Attendant	(5374)
Airport Automotive	Equipment	Operator	1	(5427)
Airport Automotive	Equipment	Operator	2	(5428)
Airport Automotive	Equipment	Operator	3	(5429)
Airport Automotive	Mechanic	(5416)
Airport Automotive Service Helper (5415)
Airport Capital Inventory Clerk (5319)
Airport Carpenter (5442)
Airport Cashier 1
Airport Data Entry Specialist 1 (5346)
Airport Data Entry Specialist 2 (5345)
Airport Office Support Specialist 2	(5306)
Airport Clerk 1 (5302)
Airport Clerk 2	(5303)
Airport Collection & Inspection Representative (5334)
Airport Computer Operator (5354)
Airport Construction Equipment Mechanic (5419)
Airport Driver-Messenger (5343)
Airport Electronic-Electrical Equipment Technician 1 (5472)
Airport Electronic-Electrical Equipment Technician 2 (5474)
Airport Electrician (5444)
Airport Engineering Drafter 2	(5487)
Airport Fire Protection System Tech
Airport Fire Suppression Systems Tech (5479)
Airport Heavy Duty Truck Mechanic (5418)
Airport Hydraulics Mechanic (5464)
Airport Information Guide (5362)
Airport Inventory Clerk (5318)
Airport Laborer
Airport Lighting Technician (5468)
Airport Locksmith (5446)
Airport Machinist (5450)
Airport Maintenance Mechanic (5404)
Airport Maintenance Repairer (5403)
60
EXHIBIT 1 BARGAINING UNIT AVIATION EMPLOYEES LOCAL 1542
OCCUPATIONAL TITLE AND OCCUPATIONAL CODE NUMBER
Airport Mason (5454)
Airport Mechanical	Equipment	Technician	1	(5475)
Airport Mechanical	Equipment	Technician	2	(5476)
Airport Motorcycle	Mechanic	(5417)
Airport Noise Abatement Officer (5253)
Airport Office Support Specialist II
Airport Painter (5448)
Airport Plumber (5452)
Airport Public Service Assistant (5364)
Airport Records Center Clerk 1 (5321)
Airport Records Center Clerk 2 (5322)
Airport Refrigeration/AC Mechanic (5456)
Airport Secretary (5310)
Airport Semi-Skilled Laborer (5402)
Airport Sign Painter (5458)
Airport Stores Clerk (5317)
Airport Teleprocessing Coordinator
Airport Tree Trimmer (5440)
Airport Waste Plant Operator (5462)
Airport Welder (5460)
Airport Word Processing Operator 2	(5313)
Auxiliary Airport Specialist (5372)
Landside Equipment Operator (5425)
Landside Officer 1	(9933)
Landside Officer 2	(9934)
Senior Landside Officer (9935)
61
EXHIBIT 1A BARGAINING UNIT AVIATION EMPLOYEES LOCAL 1542
OCCUP. CODE
OCCUPATIONAL
NUMBER
TITLE
Airport Clerk 1
Airport Clerk 2
Airport Office Support Specialist II
Airport Secretary-
Airport Word Processing Operator 2
Airport Stores Clerk
Airport Inventory Clerk
Airport Capital Inventory Clerk
Airport Records Center Clerk 1
Airport Records Center Clerk 2
Airport Collection & Inspection Representative
Airport Account Clerk
Airport Accountant 1
Airport Driver-Messenger
Airport Data Entry Specialist 1
Airport Data Entry Specialist 2
Airport Computer Operator
Airport Teleprocessing Coordinator
Airport Engineering Drafter 2
Airport Architectural Drafter 2
5302
5303
5306
5310
5313
5317
5318
5319
5321
5322
5334
5338
5339
5343
5345
5346
5354
5356
5487
5489
62
Exhibit IB
AFSCME 1542 - BARGAINING UNIT
OCCUP. CODE NUMBER	OCCUPATIONAL TITLE
5362	Airport Information Guide
5364	Airport Public Service Assistant
5372	Auxiliary Airport Specialist
5374	Airport Attendant
9762	Airport Operations Specialist
9763	Airport Operations Agent
9764	Airport Operations Senior Agent
9933	Landside Officer 1
9934	Landside Officer 2
9935	Senior Landside Officer
5402	Airport Semi-Skilled Laborer
5403	Airport Maintenance Repairer
5404	Airport Maintenance Mechanic
5415	Airport Automotive Service Helper
5416	Airport Automotive Mechanic
5417	Airport Motorcycle Mechanic
5418	Airport Heavy Duty Truck Mechanic
5419	Airport Construction Equipment Mechanic
5425	Landside Equipment Operator
5427	Airport Automotive Equipment Operator 1
5428	Airport Automotive Equipment Operator 2
5429	Airport Automotive Equipment Operator 3
5440	Airport Tree Trimmer
5442	Airport Carpenter
5444	Airport Electrician
5446	Airport Locksmith
5448	Airport Painter
5450	Airport Machinist
5452	Airport Plumber
5454	Airport Mason
5456	Airport Refrigeration Mechanic
5458	Airport Sign Painter
5460	Airport Welder
5462	Airport Waste Plant Operator
5464	Airport Hydraulics Mechanic
5468	Airport Lighting Technician
5472	Airport Electronic-Electrical Equip. Tech.- 1
5474	Airport Electronic-Electrical Equip. Tech. 2
5475	Airport Mechanical Equipment Technician 1
5476	Airport Mechanical Equipment Technician 2
5479	Airport Fire Suppression Systems Technician
63
This Agreement signed this 8th day of APRIL 2003.
For A.F.S.C.M.E. Local 1542
Witness
Witness
Witness
Witness
Witness
Witness
Witness
Witness
INDEX
ARTICLE
28
1
30
31
38
43
6
12
26
2
35
13
17
4
7
39
40
NO.
5 32 20 19
15
8 10 27 22
47 24
3
16
9 45
41 33
21 34
36
44
TITLE
Acting Appointments
Agreement
Aircraft Operating Area Proficiency
Allowance
Airport Security and Safety
Annual Leave
Applicability of Agreement
Arbitration
Attendance at Meetings
Back Pay
Bargaining Unit
Blood Bank and Donors
Bulletin Boards
Call-Back
Check Off
Classification Appeal
Disability Leave
Disciplinary Action
Exhibit 1, 1A, IB - Classifications in Bargaining Unit
Grievance Procedure
Group Health Insurance
Holiday Leave
Holidays
Hours of Work
Job Description
Labor-Management Conferences
Layoffs
Management Rights and Scope of This Agreement
Military Leave of Absence
Night Shift Pay Differential
Nondiscrimination
Overtime Compensation
Performance Evaluation And Appeals
Physical Examinations
Prevailing Benefits
Probationary Periods Within The
Bargaining Unit
Productivity
Promotions Within The Bargaining Unit
Services To The Union
Severability Clause
ARTICLE NO.	title Signature Page
37 25 14 48 18 23 11 42 46 29	Sick Leave Special Wage Provisions Strikes and Lockouts Term of Agreement And Reopening Tool Allowance Toxicology And Alcohol Testing Union Stewards and Representatives Vehicles Voting Wages