- __________
MANY FACES
2009-2011
ONE VOICE
UFCW LOCAL 1001
Collective Bargaining Agreement By and Between
The State of Washington
and
United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW)
Effective
July 1,2009 through June 30,2011
United Food and Commercial Workers Local 21
2009-2011
Article	Title	Page
Preamble
Article 1 Recognition Clause	1
Article 2	Union Membership	1
2.1	Union Dues	1
2.2	Union Membership	1
2.3	Payroll Deduction of Union Dues	1
2.4	Dues Cancellation	1
2.5	Indemnification	2
2.6	Compliance	2
2.7	Employee Notification	2
2.8	Voluntary Deduction	2
Article 3	Hiring and Appointments	2
3.1	Filling Positions	2
3.2	Types of Appointment	2
3.3	Review Periods	3
Article 4	Hours of Work/Scheduling	4
4.1	Definitions	4
4.2	Staffing Levels	5
4.3	Work Schedules	6
4.4	Posted Schedule Changes	8
4.5	Availability Cards	9
4.6	Market Areas Work Requirement	9
4.7	Exceptions	9
Article 5	Seniority	10
5.1	Definition	10
5.2	Ties	11
Article 6	Classification	11
6.1	Classification Plan Revisions	11
6.2	Effect of Reallocation	11
6.3	Salary Impact of Reallocation	12
Article 7	Compensation/Health Care Benefits Amounts	12
7.1	Pay Range Assignments - Assistant Managers 1 and 2	12
7.2	“L” Pay Range Assignments - Liquor Store Clerks	13
Page 1 of 5
Article	Title	. Pagi
7.3	Pay for Performing the Duties of a Higher Classification	13
7.4	Establishing Salaries for New Employees and New	13
	Classifications	
7.5	Periodic Increases	14
7.6	Salary Assignment Upon Promotion	14
7.7	Demotion	14
7.8	Transfer	14
7.9	Reassignment	15
7.10	Reversion	15
7.11	Elevation	15
7.12	Part-Time Employment	15
7.13	Callback	15
7.14	Shift Premium	15
7.15	Relocation Compensation	16
7.16	Split Shift Premium	16
7.17	Salary Overpayment Recovery	16
7.18	Assignment Pay Provision - Liquor Store Clerks	17
7.19	Dependent Care Salary Reduction Plan	17
7.20	Pre-tax Health Care Premiums	17
7.21	Medical/Dental Expense Account	17
7.22	Health Care Benefits Amounts	17
Article 8	Overtime	18
8.1	Definitions	18
8.2	Overtime-Eligibility and Compensation	19
8.3	Overtime Computation	19
8.4	General Provisions	19
Article 9	Holidays	19
9.1	Paid Holidays	19
9.2	Personal Holidays	20
9.3	Holiday Rules	21
Article 10	Vacation Leave	22
10.1	Vacation Leave Credit	22
10.2	Vacation Leave Accrual	22
10.3	Vacation Leave Accrual Rate Schedule	23
10.4	Vacation Scheduling for all Employees	23
10.5	Vacation Usage	24
10.6	Vacation Cancellation	24
10.7	Transfers Affecting Vacations	24
10.8	Vacation Leave Maximum	24
10.9	Separation	25
Page 2 of 5
Article
Title
Page
Article 11	Sick Leave	25
11.1	Sick Leave Accrual	25
11.2	Sick Leave Use	25
11.3	Sick Leave Reporting and Verification	26
11.4	Sick Leave Annual Cash Out	26
11.5	Sick Leave Separation Cash Out	27
11.6	Reemployment	27
Article 12	Miscellaneous Paid Leave	27
12.3	Bereavement Leave	27
12.4	Personal Leave	28
Article 13	Leave Without Pay	29
13.3	Limitations	29
13.4	Returning Employee Rights	29
13.5	Compensable Work-Related Injury or Illness Leave	29
13.6	Military Leave	29
13.7	Child and Elder Care Emergencies	30
13.8	Governmental Service Leave	30
13.9	Volunteer Firefighting Leave	30
13.10	Family Military Leave	30
13.11	Domestic Violence Leave	30
Article 14	Grievance Procedure	30
14.1	Terms and Requirements	30
14.2	Filing and Processing	32
14.3	Election of Remedies	35
Article 15	Discipline	35
Article 16	Labor/Management Communication Committee	35
16.1	Purpose	35
16.2	Committee	35
Article 17	Safety and Health	36
17.1	Workplace Safety	36
17.2	CRP/Safety Training	36
17.3	Personal Safety	37
17.4	Store Keys	37
Article 18	Training	37
Article 19	Personnel Files	38
19.1	Personnel File	38
Page 3 of 5
Article	Title	Page
19.2	File Review and Copies	38
19.3	Employee Response	38
Article 20	Management Rights	38
Article 21	Union Activities	40
21.1	Union Representatives	40
21.2	Shop Stewards	40
21.3	Bulletin Boards	41
Article 22	Non-Operational Worksites	41
Article 23	Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace	42
23.2	Possession of Alcohol and Illegal Drugs	42
23.3	Prescription and Over-the-Counter Medications	42
23.4	Reasonable Suspicion Testing	42
23.5	Training	44
Article 24	Off-Duty Conduct	44
Article 25	Non-Discrimination	44
Article 26	Employee Requested Transfers	45
Article 27	Layoff and Recall	45
27.2	Basis for Layoff	45
27.3	Voluntary Layoff, Leave of Absence or Reduction in	45
	Hours	
27.4	Non-Permanent and Probationary Employees	46
27.5	Temporary Layoff	46
27.6	Layoff Units	46
27.7	Informal Options	46
27.8	Formal Options	46
27.9	Notification to Employees with Permanent Status	47
27.10	Salary	48
27.11	Transition Review Period	48
27.12	Recall	49
Article 28	General Conditions	49
28.1	Uniforms	49
28.2	Stock Transfers	49
28.3	Personnel Policies	49
28.4	Agreement Distribution	50
28.5	Union Store Card	50
Page 4 of 5
Article
Title
Page
28.6	Sunday Work	50
Article 29	Status Reports	50
29.1	Status Report	50
29.2	Monthly Dues Report	50
Article 30	Strikes and Lockout Prohibition	51
30.1	Strikes	51
30.2	Lockout	51
Article 31	Entire Agreement	51
Article 32	Savings Clause	51
Article 33	Duration	52
Article 34	Resignation and Abandonment	52
34.1	Voluntary Resignation	52
34.2	Unauthorized Absence/Abandonment	52
34.3	Notice of Separation	52
34.4	Petition for Reinstatement	53
34.5	Grievability	53
Appendices
Compensation Appendix A	A-l
General Service Salary Schedule - July 1,2009 thru June 30, 2011
Compensation Appendix B	A-9
“L” Range Salary Schedule - July 1, 2009 thru June 30, 2011
Appendix C	A-10
41.80.20(3)
Attachment A	A-12
Store Market Areas
Letter of Understanding No.l	A-15
Page 5 of 5
Preamble
This Agreement is entered into by the State of Washington, referred to as the “Employer,” and UFCW Local 21, chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers, referred to as the “Union.”
Article 1
Recognition Clause
The Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for employees working for the Washington State Liquor Control Board covered by this Agreement, as follows:
All full-time and part-time Liquor Store Assistant Managers 1 and 2, Liquor Store Clerks, and Non-Permanent Liquor Store Employees, excluding any statutorily excluded positions.
Article 2 Union Membership
2.1	Union Dues
When an employee provides written authorization to the Employer, the Union has the right to have deducted from the employee’s salary, an amount equal to the fees and dues required to be a member of the Union.
2.2	Union Membership
A.	It shall be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this Agreement shall remain in good standing, and those who are not members on the effective date of this Agreement, become and remain members in good standing in the Union. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and hired on or after its effective date shall, on the thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in good standing in the Union.
B.	Upon the failure of any employee to comply with any provisions of this Article, the Union may then notify the Employer, in writing, of such failure, and thereupon the employee shall not be continued in employment.
2.3	Payroll Deduction of Union Dues
The Employer will provide for payroll deduction of Union dues upon authorization by the employee. Payroll deduction authorization cards must be received by the Liquor Control Board payroll office in Olympia by the tenth (10th) day of the month to be recognized as effective for that month. The Employer assumes no responsibility either to the employee or to the Union for any error in making or failing to make such deductions.
2.4	Dues Cancellation
An employee may cancel his or her payroll deduction of dues by written notice to the Employer and the Union. The cancellation will become effective on the
second (2nd) payroll after receipt of the notice. However, the cancellation may cause the employee to be terminated, subject to Section 2.2 above.
2.5	Indemnification
The Employer shall be held harmless by the Union and employees for compliance with this Article and any issues related to the deduction of dues and fees.
2.6	Compliance
All union security provisions of this Agreement shall be in compliance with RCW 41.80.100.
2.7	Employee Notification
The Employer will inform all employees who become bargaining unit members that the Union is the exclusive bargaining representative for those units.
2.8	Voluntary Deduction
A.	The Employer agrees to deduct from the wages of any employee who is a member of the Union a deduction for the Union’s Political Action Committee as provided for in a written authorization. Such authorization must be executed by the employee and may be revoked by the employee at any time by giving written notice to both the Employer and the Union. The Employer agrees to remit any deductions made pursuant to this provision to the Union together with a report showing:
1.	Employee name;
2.	Personnel number;
3.	Amount deducted.
B.	The parties agree that this section satisfies the Employer’s obligations and provides the deduction authorized under Section 1 (6) of RCW 41.04.230.
Article 3
Hiring and Appointments
3.1	Filling Positions
See Appendix C, attached, titled “41.80.20(3).”
3.2	Types of Appointment
A.	Permanent
An employee appointed to a permanent position will attain permanent status upon successful completion of a probationary period as defined in Subsection 3.3 A of this Article.
B.	Non-Permanent
1.	The Employer may fill a position with a non-permanent appointment. The non-permanent appointee must have the skills
2
and abilities required for the position. Non-permanent appointments will not exceed twelve (12) consecutive months, except when filling in for the absence of a permanent employee.
2.	The Employer may end a non-permanent appointment at any time by giving one (1) working day’s notice to the employee.
3.	An employee with permanent status may accept a non-permanent appointment. At least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to accepting the appointment, the employee must notify his or her current Appointing Authority of the intent to accept a non-permanent appointment. Upon notification of the employee’s intent, the employee’s permanent agency will notify the employee, in writing, of any return rights to the agency and the duration of those return rights. At a minimum, the agency must provide the employee access to the agency’s internal layoff list.
3.3	Review Periods
A.	Probationary Period
1.	Every full-time and part-time employee, following his or her initial appointment to a permanent position, will serve a probationary period of one thousand forty-four (1044) actual hours of work or nine (9) consecutive months, whichever is earlier.
2.	The Employer may separate a probationary employee at any time during the probationary period, and such separation will not be subject to the grievance procedure in Article 14.
3.	An employee who transfers or is promoted prior to completing his or her initial probationary period will serve a new probationary period. The length of the new probationary period may be adjusted by the Appointing Authority for time already served in probationary status. In no case, however, will the total probationary period be less than one thousand forty-four (1044) actual hours of work or nine (9) consecutive months as described in subsection 3.3 A. 1 above.
4.	If the Employer converts the status of a non-permanent appointment to a permanent appointment, the incumbent employee will serve a probationary period. However, the Employer will credit time worked in the non-permanent appointment toward completion of the probationary period.
B.	Trial Service Period
1.	Employees with permanent status who are promoted, or who voluntarily accept a transfer or demotion into a job classification
3
for which they have not previously attained permanent status, will serve a trial service period of six (6) consecutive months. However, the Employer may extend the trial service period to no more than twelve (12) consecutive months.
2.	Any employee serving a trial service period will have his or her trial service period extended, on a day-for-a-day basis, for any day(s) that the employee is on leave without pay or shared leave, except for leave taken for military service.
3.	With prior written notice by the Employer, all employees failing a trial service period may be offered an opportunity to revert to a position in the same agency, that is:
a.	Vacant or filled by a non-permanent employee and is within the trial service employee’s previously held job classification; or
b.	Vacant or filled by a non-permanent employee at or below the employee’s previous salary range.
In either case, the employee being reverted must have the skills and abilities required for the vacant position.
4.	Any employee failing a trial service period, who has no reversion options, may request that his or her name be placed on the agency’s internal layoff list and into the General Government Transition Pool Program for positions in job classifications where he or she had previously attained permanent status.
5.	The reversion of employees who are unsuccessful during their trial service period is not subject to the grievance procedure in Article 14.
Article 4
Hours of Work/Scheduling
4.1	Definitions
A. Full-time Employees
Employees who are scheduled to work forty (40) hours per workweek in their home store. The continuation of full-time status for the position will be contingent upon the operational needs of the store.
4
B.	Part-time Employees
Employees who are scheduled to work less than forty (40) hours per workweek in their home store and who work a fluctuating schedule subject to the operational needs of the store.
C.	Full-time Eligibility
A scheduled employee who averages thirty-six (36) or more hours per week for the fiscal year (July 1 to June 30) will be considered a full-time employee only for purposes of:
1.	a transfer to a job opening in another Washington State agency;
2.	participation in state sponsored training for which full-time status is required; and
3.	eligibility to attend college level classes or credit or audit.
The continuation of this eligibility for the position will be contingent upon the operational needs of the store.
D.	Workweek
A workweek is five (5) working days in a seven (7) day period. Workweeks will normally begin at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday and end at 12:00 midnight the following Saturday or as otherwise designated by the Appointing Authority. The standard workweek, for full-time employees is forty (40) hours, divided into five (5) assigned eight (8) hour days within a seven (7) day period. The standard workweek for part-time employees is five (5) or less scheduled days in a seven (7) day period. Part-time employees may volunteer to work on the sixth (6th) or seventh (7th) day at regular time if less than or equal to forty (40) hours.
E.	Seniority
Seniority, for scheduling purposes, for part-time employees will be based on actual hours worked as of July 1 and February 1 of each year. The Employer will prepare a report for each store reflecting these seniority hours.
4.2	Staffing Levels
Determination of staffing levels and the ratio between full-time, part-time assistant managers and clerks is the sole prerogative of the Employer. To the extent possible, it is the intent to maintain a ratio that will maximize the use of full-time positions, provide part-time employees a reasonable expectation for as many hours as practical with a goal of providing a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week, avoid overstaffing that could lead to layoff(s) and to maintain the efficiency of the system. It is understood that the Union and the Employer have the same common goal to convert as many part-time assistant managers to full
5
time as is practical, and to provide for two (2) person closing of liquor stores as is practical.
4.3	Work Schedules
The work schedule will be posted no later than fourteen (14) calendar days proceeding the week being scheduled.
A.	Home Store Scheduling Priority
Up to the five (5) longest or equally longest available shifts during the workweek will be scheduled in the following priority at the time the schedule is posted:
■	Home Store	Assistant Manager
■	Home Store	Full-time Clerk
■	Home Store	Part-time Permanent Clerk
■	Part-time Clerks from availability cards
H Home Store Non-Permanent Clerk
In the event there are open shifts after the above scheduling process has been completed the Employer will schedule employees, from within their designated Market Area (Attachment A), in the following priority:
1	. Part-time permanent clerks with less than twenty (20) hours of scheduled work.
2	. Any available Clerk.
B.	Shift Length
When the skills and abilities of the assigned part-time clerks are equitable, the most senior assigned clerk will be scheduled up to a maximum of five (5) available scheduled shifts during the workweek that are the longest, or equally longest, scheduled shifts during that workweek in their home store. However, the Employer may deviate from this process where there is documented performance issues regarding the employee’s skills and abilities.
C.	Minimum Shift
Full-time and part-time employees will be scheduled not less than a four (4) hour shift. However, in the event less than four (4) hours remain in a work day, any difference between the time worked and the four (4) hour minimum will be added to an employee’s existing schedule within seven (7) calendar days. The four (4) hour minimum shall not apply when callback pay is applicable.
6
D.	Split Shift
Part-time employees may work more than one (1) shift in more than one (1) store provided such work does not interfere with assigned shifts in their home store. Part-time employees will not be required to work more than one (1) shift in one (1) day. However, part-time clerks may accept additional shifts in other stores in the same day that may be less than four (4) hours.
E.	Time Between Shifts
There shall be a minimum of ten (10) hours between work shifts within the employee’s home store. Work performed prior to the ten (10) hours between the two (2) shifts will be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee’s regular rate of pay.
F.	Classification/Seniority Priority
Scheduling by higher classification and seniority shall supersede any other provision of this Agreement which effects scheduling, except as provided for in Article 18, Training.
G.	Saturdays Off
Assistant managers and full-time clerks as referenced in Subsection 4.1 A will be allowed one (1) Saturday off every month; however, if this would result in the assistant manager not receiving the five (5) longest shifts, an exception to scheduling must be filed prior to scheduling.
H.	Late Closing Stores
In late closing stores, assistant managers will be scheduled no more than four (4) nights per week or if possible, only three (3) nights per week.
I.	Days Off
Full-time employees shall have two (2) days off. One of the days will be Sunday; the other, a regular day off during the week. When it is practical within the needs of the store to grant Saturday and/or Monday as a day off, these days will be rotated among employees desiring them.
J.	Reporting Time
Employees will report for work no more than fifteen (15) minutes prior to the beginning of their scheduled shift and will begin work no more than five (5) minutes before the shift begins. They will not work longer than five (5) minutes after the completion of the scheduled shift without approval of the manager or person in charge. Employees will work all hours scheduled and will be compensated for all hours worked.
K.	Positive Time Reporting
Employees will accurately report time worked in accordance with a positive time reporting process as determined by the Employer.
7
L.	Rest Periods
There will be a rest period of fifteen (15) minutes during each four (4) hour period of continuous work. Unit members will be scheduled a meal period of no less than thirty (30) minutes nor more than one (1) hour, which commences no less than two (2) hours nor more than five (5) hours from the beginning of the shift. A meal period of more than thirty (30) minutes will be determined by the length of the scheduled shift. Said rest period and lunch period will be taken at a time determined by the manager; however, these will be approximately in the middle of the work period. The rest period and lunch period are intended to be recesses and be preceded and followed by a work period. Such periods may not be used to allow late arrival or early departure and may not be combined.
M.	Lunch Period
Employees required by management to be on duty during their lunch period will receive their appropriate rate of pay for such time.
4.4	Posted Schedule Changes
A.	Full-time
Seven (7) days’ notice is required to change a full-time employee’s scheduled day off. In the event that a seven (7) day notice is not given, the employee will be paid at the overtime rate for all hours worked on the previously scheduled day off.
B.	Part-time
The Employer will attempt to notify part-time employees, as early as reasonably possible, of a change to an employee’s shift, up to twenty-four (24) hours before the scheduled shift change.
C.	Schedule Change Priority
When there are changes to the posted schedule, employees, by seniority, will be given the opportunity to work the shift(s) according to the following priority, provided no overtime will be incurred. Employees will be responsible for updating their availability cards.
■	Home Store Part-time Assistant Manager B	Home Store Part-time Permanent Clerk
■	Home Store Non-Permanent Clerk
■	Part-time Clerk from availability cards
■	Any available clerk
The above priority will not apply in the event of an emergency. An emergency will be defined as advance notice of twenty-four (24) hours or less when employees on the posted schedule are unable to report to work. In this circumstance the manager may call any available clerk prior to calling part-time clerks from availability cards.
8
4.5	Availability Cards
Part-time employees will be allowed to receive additional available hours in another store provided they are not scheduled to work in their home store. Part-time employees desiring more hours must fill out an availability card for the store(s) in which they want to work. Managers will assign the additional hours required by peak load periods or absence of another scheduled employee not to exceed forty (40) hours per week as required by Subsection 4.4 C, above. Part-time employees are not required to stand by for a possible call on their nonscheduled days.
4.6	Market Areas Work Requirement
Permanent and part-time clerks will be assigned a Home Store, however they can be required to work in any store within their designated Market Area as outlined in Article 4.3.
4.7	Exceptions
A.	Family Needs/Education
The Employer may grant exceptions to the standard scheduling practice for the purpose of allowing defined term restriction by the employees of their hours, shift, or days of work. Exception to scheduling is limited to family needs such as child care, caring for ill family members, attending important family events, educational purposes such as taking college courses for professional development. Approval or denial of requests for exception to scheduling will be based upon the operational needs of the home store.
B.	Light Duty
Seniority scheduling will be waived to the extent of the doctor’s limitations for employees working in the store on light duty. The Employer will not be required to schedule other employees for additional hours due to the light duty accommodations. If an employee demonstrates that they cannot perform within the limitations of duty as written, or the employee refuses or requests not to perform such duties, the Employer will not be required to schedule that employee until another doctor’s evaluation or re-evaluation has been submitted by the employee.
C.	Acceptance of Longer Shifts
With five (5) working days’ notice, the acceptance of a longer shift at another store by a scheduled employee may be granted. Approval or denial of requests will be based upon the needs of the home store.
D.	With regard to the exceptions outlined in Subsections A and C above, the Employer’s obligation is to first attempt to get another home store employee to cover the shift. If unsuccessful and there are no volunteers, the needs of the store will prevail.
9
Article 5 Seniority
5.1	Definition
A.	Seniority for a full-time employee will be defined as the employee’s length of unbroken state service. Seniority for part-time employees will be based on actual hours worked, which will include those hours an employee works a temporary assignment(s) as a full-time Liquor Store Assistant Manager or Manager. Leave without pay of fifteen (15) consecutive days or less will not affect an employee’s seniority. When an employee is on leave without pay for more than fifteen (15) consecutive calendar days, the employee’s seniority will not be affected when the leave without pay is taken for:
1.	Military leave or United States Public Health Service;
2.	Compensable work-related injury or illness leave;
3.	Governmental Service Leave, and leave to enter the Peace Corps, not to exceed two (2) years and three (3) months;
4.	Educational leave, contingent upon successful completion of the course; and/or
5.	Reducing the effects of layoff.
When an employee is on leave without pay for more than fifteen (15) consecutive calendar days and the absence is not due to one of the reasons listed above, the employee’s seniority date will be moved forward in an amount equal to the duration of the leave without pay. Time spent on temporary layoff, in accordance with Section 27.5 of Article 27, Layoff and Recall, will not be deducted from the calculation of seniority. Employees who are separated from state service because of layoff, and are reemployed within two (2) years of their separation date, will not be considered to have a break in service.
B.	For the purposes of layoffs, a maximum of five (5) years’ credit will be added to the seniority of permanent employees who are veterans or to their unmarried widows or widowers, as provided for in RCW 41.06.133 (13).
10
5.2	Ties
If two (2) or more employees have the same unbroken state service date, ties will be broken in the following order:
A.	Longest continuous time within their current job classification;
B.	Longest continuous time with the agency; and
C.	By lot.
Article 6 Classification
6.1	Classification Plan Revisions
A.	The Employer will provide to the Union, in writing, any proposed changes to the classification plan including descriptions for newly created classifications. Upon request of the Union, the Employer will bargain the salary effect(s) of a change to an existing class or newly proposed classification.
B.	The Employer will assign newly created positions to the appropriate classification within the classification plan.
6.2	Effect of Reallocation
A.	Reallocation to a Class with a Higher Salary Range Maximum
1.	If the employee has performed the higher-level duties for at least six (6) months and meets the skills and abilities required of the position, the employee will remain in the position and retain existing appointment status.
2.	If the reallocation is the result of a change in the duties of the position and the employee has not performed the higher-level duties for at least six (6) months, the Employer must give the employee the opportunity to compete for the position if he or she possesses the required skills and abilities. If the employee is not selected for the position, or does not have the required skills and abilities, the layoff procedure specified in Article 27 of this Agreement applies. If the employee is appointed, he or she must serve a trial service period.
B.	Reallocation to a Class with a Lower Salary Range Maximum
1.	If the employee meets the skills and abilities requirements of the position and chooses to remain in the reallocated position, the employee retains existing appointment status and has the right to be placed on the Employer’s internal layoff list for the classification occupied prior to the reallocation.
11
2.	If the employee chooses to vacate the position or does not meet the skills and abilities requirements of the position, the layoff procedure specified in Article 27 of this Agreement applies.
6.3	Salary Impact of Reallocation
An employee whose position is reallocated will have his or her salary determined as follows:
A.	Reallocation to a Class with a Higher Salary Range Maximum Upon appointment to the higher class, the employee’s base salary will be increased as follows:
1.	Employees promoted to a position in a class whose range is less than six (6) ranges higher than the range of the former class will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class that is nearest to five percent (5%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
2.	Employees promoted to a position in a class whose range is six (6) or more ranges higher than the range of the former class will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class that is nearest to ten percent (10%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
B.	Reallocation to a Class with a Lower Salary Range Maximum
The employee will be paid an amount equal to his or her current salary until the new salary range equals the employee’s pay at the time of reallocation.
Article 7
Compensation/Health Care Benefits Amounts
7.1	Pay Range Assignments - Assistant Managers 1 and 2
A.	Effective July 1, 2009, each classification represented by the Union will continue to be assigned to the same salary range of the “General Service Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009” as it was assigned on June 30, 2009. Effective July 1, 2009, each employee will continue to be assigned to the same range and step of the General Service Salary Schedule that he or she was assigned on June 30, 2009.
B.	Effective July 1, 2009, all salary ranges and steps of the General Service Salary Schedule will remain in effect until June 30, 2011, as shown in Compensation Appendix A, attached.
12
1.2	“L” Pay Range Assignments - Liquor Store Clerks
A.	Effective July 1, 2009, each classification represented by the Union will continue to be assigned to the same salary range of the “L” Range Salary Schedule effective July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009, as it was assigned on June 30, 2009. Effective July 1, 2009, each employee will continue to be assigned to the same range and step of the “L” Range Salary Schedule that he or she was assigned on June 30, 2009.
B.	Effective July 1, 2009, all salary ranges and steps of the “L” Range Salary Schedule will remain in effect until June 30, 2011, as shown in Compensation Appendix B, attached.
7.3	Pay for Performing the Duties of a Higher Classification
A.	Employees who are temporarily assigned the full scope of duties and responsibilities for more than thirty (30) calendar days to a higher level classification whose range is less than six (6) ranges higher than the range of the former class will be notified in writing and will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class that is nearest to five percent (5%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
B.	Employees who are temporarily assigned the full scope of duties and responsibilities for more than thirty (30) calendar days to a higher level classification whose range is six (6) or more ranges higher than the range of the former class will be notified in writing and will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class that is nearest to ten percent (10%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
7.4	Establishing Salaries for New Employees and New Classifications
A.	The Employer will assign newly hired employees to the appropriate range and step of the appropriate Salary Schedules as described in Compensation Appendices A or B attached.
B.	Former employees of the Liquor Control Board being re-hired will be assigned to the appropriate range and step of the appropriate Salary Schedule as defined by the Employer. Newly hired Liquor Store Clerk employees whose experience in a private sector retail job is comparable (as defined in the Liquor Store Clerk Essential Function Analysis: Tasks and Responsibilities), will be given service credit and placed in the second (2nd) salary step of the appropriate salary schedule. Comparable experience must be for a minimum of one (1) year and within the last two (2) years from the date of employment with the Liquor Control Board.
C.	In the event the Employer creates new classifications during the term of this Agreement, the parties may meet to discuss the assignment of new bargaining unit classes or the reassignment of existing bargaining unit classes to pay ranges.
13
7.5	Periodic Increases
Employees will receive periodic increases as follows:
A.	Employees who are hired at the minimum step of the pay range will receive a two (2) step increase to base salary following completion of six (6) months of service, and an additional two (2) step increase annually thereafter, until they reach the top of the pay range. Except that the last Step (“L”) is a one-step increase to base salary.
B.	Employees who are hired above the minimum step of the salary range will receive a two (2) step increase annually, on their hire date, until they reach the top of the pay range. Except that the last Step (“L”) is a one-step increase to base salary.
C.	Employees in the class of liquor store clerk will receive their periodic increases at the same time intervals as employees in classes with standard ranges in accordance with Subsection A or B above. Except, normal progression for such employees is steps A, D, G, K and L.
7.6	Salary Assignment Upon Promotion
A.	Employees promoted to a position in a class whose range is less than six (6) ranges higher than the range of the former class will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class that is nearest to five percent (5%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
B.	Employees promoted to a position in a class whose range is six (6) or more ranges higher than the range of the former class will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class that is nearest to ten percent (10%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
C.	Geographic Adjustments
The appointing authority may authorize more than the step increases specified in Subsections A and B above, when an employee’s promotion requires a change of residence to another geographic area to be within a reasonable commuting distance of the new place of work. Such an increase may not result in a salary greater than the range maximum.
7.7	Demotion
An employee who voluntarily demotes to another position with a lower salary range maximum will be placed in the new range at a salary equal to his or her previous base salary. If the previous base salary exceeds the new range, the employee’s base salary will be set equal to the new range maximum.
7.8	Transfer
A transfer is defined as an employee-initiated move of an employee from a position to another position within or between agencies in the same class or a
14
different class with the same salary range maximum. Transferred employees will retain their current base salary.
7.9	Reassignment
Reassignment is defined as an agency-initiated move of an employee within the agency from one position to another in the same class or a different class with the same salary range maximum. Upon reassignment, an employee retains his or her current base salary.
7.10	Reversion
Reversion is defined as voluntary or involuntary movement of an employee during the trial service period to the class the employee most recently held permanent status in, to a class in the same or lower salary range, or separation placement onto the Employer’s internal layoff list. Upon reversion, the base salary the employee was receiving prior to promotion will be reinstated.
7.11	Elevation
Elevation is defined as restoring an employee to the higher classification, with permanent status, which was held prior to being granted a demotion or to a class that is between the current class and the class from which the employee was demoted. Upon elevation, an employee’s salary will be determined in the same manner that is provided for promotion, in Section 7.6, above.
7.12	Part-Time Employment
Part-time employees will be paid the appropriate hourly rate for all hours worked.
7.13	Callback
A.	A minimum of three (3) hours of pay, in addition to all other compensation due, will be provided when an employee has finished his or her work shift and has left the worksite or is in paid leave status and is required by management to return to work outside of regularly scheduled hours.
B.	The Appointing Authority or designee may cancel a callback notification to work extra hours at anytime, but cancellation will not waive the minimum of three (3) hours of pay as defined in Subsection A, above.
7.14	Shift Premium
A.	A basic shift premium of sixty-five cents ($0.65) per hour will be paid to employees for all hours worked during the shift when four (4) or more of the hours extend beyond 6:00 p.m. or are before 6:00 a.m. If less than four (4) hours are prior to 6:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m., only those hours will be paid at the shift premium rate with the balance at the basic rate.
B.	The scheduling of a lunch period after 6:00 p.m. will not preclude an employee from receiving the shift premium rate for the hours scheduled
15
after 6:00 p.m. The lunch period time will be deducted from the basic hours worked before 6:00 p.m.
C.	When an employee is compensated for working overtime during hours for which shift premium is authorized in this Section, the overtime rate shall be calculated at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate and the shift premium combined.
D.	Employees eligible for shift premium for their regularly scheduled shifts will receive the same proportion of shift premium for respective periods of authorized paid leave and for holidays not worked which fall within their regularly scheduled shift.
7.15	Relocation Compensation
A.	The Employer may authorize lump sum relocation compensation, within existing budgetary resources, under the following conditions:
1.	When it is reasonably necessary that a person make a domiciliary move in accepting a reassignment or appointment; or
2.	It is necessary to successfully recruit or retain a qualified candidate or employee who will have to make a domiciliary move in order to accept the position.
B.	If the employee receiving the relocation payment terminates or causes termination of his or her employment with the state within one (1) year of the date of employment, the state will be entitled to reimbursement for the moving costs which have been paid and may withhold such sum as necessary from any amounts due the employee. Termination as a result of layoff, or disability separation will not require the employee to repay the relocation compensation.
7.16	Split Shift Premium
A. A basic split shift premium of sixty-five cents ($0.65) per hour will be paid to employees who work an additional shift provided that there is more than one (1) hour between shifts. The premium rate will apply to all hours worked during a split shift.
7.17	Salary Overpayment Recovery
A.	When an agency has determined that an employee has been overpaid wages, the agency will provide written notice to the employee which will include the following items:
1.
2.
3.
The amount of the overpayment;
The basis for the claim;
The rights of the employee under the terms of this Agreement.
16
B.	Method of Payback
The employee will utilize wage deduction as the method for paying back the overpayment.
If the employee fails to respond to the agency’s written notice of overpayment, the agency will deduct the overpayment owed from the employee’s wages. This overpayment recovery will take place over a period of time equal to the number of pay periods during which the overpayment was made unless a longer period is agreed to by the employee and the agency.
Any overpayment amount still outstanding at separation of employment will be deducted from the employee’s final pay.
C.	Appeal Rights
Any dispute concerning the occurrence or amount of the overpayment will be resolved through the grievance procedure in Article 14.
7.18	Assignment Pay Provision-Liquor Store Clerks
In addition to all hours worked, a Liquor Store Clerk who is assigned to open or close a store to the public for retail business will receive two-tenths (0.2) hours of pay for that day for opening, closing or both.
7.19	Dependant Care Salary Reduction Plan
The Employer agrees to maintain the current dependent care salary reduction plan that allows eligible employees, covered by this Agreement, the option to participate in a dependent care reimbursement program for work-related dependent care expenses on a pre-tax basis as permitted by Federal tax law or regulation.
7.20	Pre-tax Health Care Premiums
The Employer agrees to provide eligible employees with the option to pay for the employee portion of the health care premiums on a pre-tax basis as permitted by Federal tax law or regulation.
7.21	Medical/Dental Expense Account
The Employer agrees to allow insurance eligible employees, covered by this Agreement, to participate in a medical and dental expense reimbursement program to cover co-payments, deductibles and other medical and dental expenses, if employees have such costs, or expenses for services not covered by health and dental insurance on a pre-tax basis as permitted by Federal tax law or regulation.
7.22	Health Care Benefits Amounts
A.	The Employer will contribute an amount equal to eighty-eight percent (88%) of the total weighted average of the health care premium for each bargaining unit employee eligible for insurance each month, as determined
17
by the Public Employees Benefits Board annually for benefits in calendar year 2010 and calendar year 2011, respectively.
B.	The Employer will pay the entire premium costs for each bargaining unit employee for basic life, basic long-term disability and dental insurance coverage.
C.	To support the statewide goal for a healthy and productive workforce, employees are encouraged to participate in a Health Risk Assessment survey. Employees will be granted work time and may use a state computer to complete the survey.
Article 8 Overtime
8.1	Definitions
A.	Overtime
Overtime is defined as time that an employee works in excess of eight (8) hours in a workday or forty (40) hours per workweek.
B.	Overtime Rate
In accordance with the applicable wage and hour laws, the overtime rate will be one and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee’s regular rate of pay. The regular rate of pay will not include any allowable exclusions.
C.	Work
The definition of work, for overtime purposes only, includes:
1.	All hours actually spent performing the duties of the assigned job.
2.	Travel time required by the Employer during normal work hours
from one work site to another or travel time prior to and after normal work hours to a different work location that is greater than the employee’s normal home-to-work travel time.
3.	Vacation leave.
4.	Holidays.
5.	Any other paid time not listed	below.
D.	Work does not include:
1.	Sick leave or other paid leave used for sick leave purposes.
2.	Shared leave.
18
3.	Leave without pay.
4.	Additional compensation for time worked on a holiday.
5.	Time compensated as callback or any other penalty pay.
8.2	Overtime-Eligibility and Compensation
Employees are eligible for overtime compensation under the following circumstances:
Employees who have prior approval and work more than eight (8) hours in a workday or forty (40) hours in a workweek will be compensated at the overtime rate.
8.3	Overtime Computation
Computation of overtime will be rounded upward to the nearest one-tenth (1/10th) of an hour.
8.4	General Provisions
The Employer will determine whether work will be performed on regular work time or overtime. The Employer will first attempt to meet its overtime requirements on a voluntary basis with qualified employees who are currently working. In the event there are not enough employees volunteering to work, the manager may require employees to work overtime by inverse seniority order.
Article 9 Holidays
9.1	Paid Holidays
The following days are legal holidays as designated by statute:
New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King Jr.’s Birthday
Presidents’ Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Veterans’ Day
Thanksgiving Day
The day after Thanksgiving
Christmas Day
January 1
Third Monday in January Third Monday in February Last Monday in May
July 4
First Monday in September
November 11
Fourth Thursday in November Fourth Friday in November December 25
Additional holidays may be designated by the Legislature.
19
9.2	Personal Holidays
An employee may choose one (1) workday as a personal holiday during the calendar year if the employee has been or is scheduled to be continuously employed by the state for more than four (4) months.
A.	An employee who is scheduled to work less than six (6) continuous months over a period covering two (2) calendar years shall receive only one (1) persona! holiday during this period.
B.	The Employer will release the employee from work on the day selected as the personal holiday if:
1.	The employee has given at least fourteen (14) calendar days' written notice to the manager. However, the manager has the discretion to allow a shorter notice period.
2.	The number of employees choosing a specific day off allows an agency to continue its work efficiently and not incur overtime.
C.	A part-time employee will be paid in an amount proportionate to the time in pay status during the month to that required for full-time employment.
D.	A full-time employee will be paid eight (8) hours pay for the personal holiday.
E.	Personal holidays must be taken during the calendar year or the entitlement to the day will lapse.
F.	Part or all of a personal holiday may be donated as shared leave, in accordance with appropriate agency policies. Any portion of a personal holiday that remains or is returned to the employee, will be taken in one (1) absence, not to exceed the work shift on the day of the absence, subject to the request and approval as described in Subsections B, C, and D above.
G.	Upon request, an employee will be approved to use part or all of his or her personal holiday for:
1.	The care of family members as required by the Family Care Act, WAC 296-130;
2.	Leave as required by the Military Family Leave Act, RCW 49.77 and in accordance with Article 13.10; or
3.	Leave as required by the Domestic Violence Leave Act, RCW 49.76.
20
Any portion of a personal holiday that remains will be taken by the employee in one (1) absence, not to exceed the work shift on the day of the absence, subject to request and approval as described in Subsections B, C, and D above.
9.3	Holiday Rules
The following rules apply to all holidays except the personal holiday:
A.	A full-time employee will be paid eight (8) hours pay at the straight time rate for the holiday.
B.	Part-time employees who were employed before and after the holiday and for a period of at least twelve (12) calendar days during the month (not including the holiday) will be paid for the holiday in an amount proportionate to the time in pay status during the month to that required for full-time employment.
C.	Stores will normally be closed on Easter Sunday, Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year’s Day.
D.	In addition to Subsection 9.3 A above, when a store is open on a paid holiday, employees will be paid for the hours actually worked on a holiday at the overtime rate in accordance with Article 8, Overtime. Work performed on a holiday will be voluntary for all permanent employees provided however, that if an insufficient number of employees volunteer, the Employer may schedule work on a holiday by inverse seniority. Employees who work on a holiday will be scheduled to work no less than eight (8) hours, provided the store is open eight (8) hours.
1.	The holidays cited above are paid non-working days for eligible employees.
2.	When a holiday falls on an employee's scheduled workday, that day will be considered the holiday.
3.	When a holiday falls on an employee's scheduled day off, the agency will treat the employee’s workday before or after as the holiday.
4.	When a paid holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday will be considered the holiday.
E.	A full-time employee who would otherwise be entitled to a holiday but is on leave without pay, will receive compensation for the holiday provided he or she has been in pay status for ten (10) working days during the month, not counting the holiday. Compensation for holidays for other than
21
full-time employees during leave without pay will be proportionate to the time in pay status required for full-time employment.
Article 10 Vacation Leave
10.1	Vacation Leave Credit
After six (6) months of continuous state employment, full-time and part-time employees will be credited with the vacation leave they accrued during the previous six (6) months, according to the rate schedule and vacation leave accrual below. Thereafter, full-time and part-time employees will be credited with vacation accrued monthly, according to the rate schedule and vacation leave accrual below.
10.2	Vacation Leave Accrual
A.	Full-time employees will accrue vacation leave according to the rate schedule below, under the following conditions:
1.	The employee must be in pay status for eighty (80) non-overtime hours or more during the month.
2.	Any leave without pay taken during the month will not be counted towards the eighty (80) non-overtime hours’ or more during the month.
3.	Holidays for which the employee is otherwise eligible that fall within the qualifying eighty (80) non-overtime hours count toward the minimum requirement.
B.	Vacation leave accrual for other than full-time employees will be computed and accrued in an amount proportionate to the time the employee is in pay status during the month to that required for full-time employment.
22
10.3	Vacation Leave Accrual Rate Schedule
Full Years of Service	Hours Per Year
During the first year of current continuous employment	Ninety-six (96)
During the second year of current continuous employment	One hundred four (104)
During the third and fourth years of current continuous employment	One hundred twelve (112)
During the fifth, sixth, and seventh years of current continuous employment	One hundred twenty (120)
During the eighth, ninth, and tenth years of total employment	One hundred twenty-eight (128)
During the eleventh year of total employment	One hundred thirty-six (136)
During the twelfth year of total employment	One hundred forty-four (144)
During the thirteenth year of total employment	One hundred fifty-two (152)
During the fourteenth year of total employment	One hundred sixty (160)
During the fifteenth year of total employment	One hundred sixty-eight (168)
During the sixteenth year of total employment and thereafter	One hundred seventy-six (176)
10.4
Vacation Scheduling for all Employees
A.	Employees will not request or be authorized to take scheduled vacation leave if they do not have sufficient vacation leave to cover such absence.
B.	Employees who desire to take their vacation at a specific period and time will submit their request to their manager, in writing, prior to April 1st for the year such vacation will fall. Employees with the greater seniority will be given preference of vacation requests within the respective selections involved. By April 11, the store manager will post a list of all approved vacations. Employees requesting leave by April 1st will be granted leave providing such leave does not interfere with store operations.
Vacation requests made after April 1st will be granted on a first come, first served basis, based upon the date and time of request. When two (2) or more employees in a store make a simultaneous request for one (1) opening, the senior employee’s request will be honored. Requests must be made in writing on a form to be supplied by the manager, showing the date and time of receipt by the manager. The manager will issue a written response within one (1) week.
23
C.	Vacation leave may be taken in one-tenth (1/10) of an hour increments.
D.	In addition to the above, part-time employees may be granted up to
forty (40) hours of vacation per week, provided no overtime is incurred.
10.5	Vacation Usage
A.	Employees may use vacation leave for care of family members as required by the Family Care Act, WAC 296-130.
B.	Employees may use vacation leave for leave required by Military Family Leave Act, RCW 49.77and in accordance with agency policies.
C.	Employees may use vacation for leave as required by the Domestic Violence Act, RCW 49.76.
10.6	Vacation Cancellation
Should it be necessary to cancel a previously scheduled vacation, the employee will be given priority for rescheduling.
10.7	Transfers Affecting Vacations
Employees being involuntarily transferred at the Employer’s direction from one store to another should not have their scheduled vacations changed if they have already been posted and adhere to the conditions cited in Subsection 10.4 B of this Article.
Employees requesting transfers or accepting promotions from one store to another will not have their scheduled and approved vacations changed unless there is a conflict with the vacation schedule in a new store. In the event of a conflict the new store vacation schedule will prevail. In succeeding years, Subsection 10.4 B will apply.
10.8	Vacation Leave Maximum
Employees may accumulate maximum vacation balances not to exceed two hundred forty (240) hours. However, there are two (2) exceptions that allow vacation leave to accumulate above the maximum:
A.	If an employee’s request for vacation leave is denied by the Employer, and the employee has not exceeded the vacation leave maximum two hundred forty (240) hours, the Employer may grant an extension for each month that the Employer defers the employee’s request for vacation leave.
B.	An employee may also accumulate vacation leave days in excess of two hundred forty (240) hours as long as the employee uses the excess balance prior to his or her anniversary date. Any leave in excess of the maximum that is not deferred in advance of its accrual as described above, will be lost on the employee’s anniversary date.
24
10.9	Separation
Any employee, who either resigns with adequate notice, retires, is laid-off or is terminated by the Employer, will be entitled to be paid for accrued vacation leave. In addition, the estate of a deceased employee will be entitled to payment for vacation leave credits.
Article 11
Sick Leave
11.1	Sick Leave Accrual
A.	Full-time employees will accrue eight (8) hours of sick leave under the following conditions:
1.	The employee must be in pay status for eighty (80) non-overtime hours or more during the month.
2.	Any leave without pay taken during the month will not be counted towards the eighty (80) non-overtime hours’ eligibility requirement.
3.	Holidays for which the employee is otherwise eligible that fall within the qualifying eighty (80) non-overtime hours count towards the minimum requirement.
B.	Sick leave credit for other than full-time employees will be computed and accrued in an amount proportionate to the time the employee is in pay status during the month to that required for full-time employment.
11.2	Sick Leave Use
Sick leave may be charged in one-tenth (1/10) of an hour increments and may be used for the following reasons:
A.	A personal illness, injury or medical disability that prevents the employee from performing his or her job, or personal medical or dental appointments.
B.	Care of family members as required by the Family Care Act, Chapter 296-130 WAC.
C.	Qualifying absences for Family and Medical Leave.
D.	Exposure of the employee to contagious disease when attendance at work would jeopardize the health of others.
E.	Illness of relatives or household members, up to five (5) days for each occurrence or as extended by the Employer. Relatives are defined for this
25
purpose as spouse, significant other, son, daughter, grandchild, foster child, step-child, parent, or grandparent.
F.	Preventative health care of relatives or household members, up to one (1) day for each occurrence. Relatives as defined in Subsection E, above.
G.	To care for a minor/dependent child with a health condition requiring treatment or supervision.
H.	A death of a relative in cases where the employee is not eligible for bereavement leave under Article 12.3, or when the employee elects to extend authorized bereavement leave. Sick leave use for bereavement is limited to three (3) days or as extended by the agency for travel.
I.	Leave for Family Military Leave as required by RCW 49.77 and in accordance with agency policies.
J.	Leave for Domestic Violence Leave as required by RCW 49.76.
11.3	Sick Leave Reporting and Verification
An employee must promptly notify his or her supervisor on the first day of sick leave and each day after, unless there is agreement to do otherwise. If the employee is in a position requiring relief replacement, the employee will notify his or her supervisor at least two (2) hours prior to his or her scheduled time to report to work. The Employer may require a written medical certificate for any sick leave absence when the employee has demonstrated that the use of such leave suggests abuse of sick leave. An employee returning to work after any sick leave absence may be required to provide written certification from his or her health care provider that the employee is able to return to work and perform the essential functions of the job with or without reasonable accommodation.
11.4	Sick Leave Annual Cash Out
Each January, employees are eligible to receive cash on a one (1) hour for four (4) hours basis for ninety-six (96) hours or less of their accrued sick leave, if:
A.	Their sick leave balance at the end of the previous calendar year exceeds four hundred and eighty (480) hours;
B.	The converted sick leave hours do not reduce their previous calendar year sick leave balance below four hundred and eighty (480) hours; and
C.	They notify their payroll office by January 31st that they would like to convert their sick leave hours earned during the previous calendar year, minus any sick leave hours used during the previous year, to cash.
All converted hours will be deducted from the employee’s sick leave balance.
26
11.5	Sick Leave Separation Cash Out
At the time of retirement from state service or at death, an eligible employee or the employee’s estate will receive cash for his or her total sick leave balance on a one (1) hour for four (4) hours basis. For the purposes of this Section, retirement will not include “vested out of service” employees who leave funds on deposit with the retirement system. In accordance with state and federal law, agencies and employees in bargaining units may agree to form Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Associations (tax-free medical spending accounts) funded by the retiree sick leave cash out described above.
11.6	Reemployment
Former state employees who are re-employed within five (5) years of leaving state service will be granted all unused sick leave credits they had at separation.
Article 12
Miscellaneous Paid Leave
12.1	Subject to the Employer’s approval, employees may be allowed paid leave during scheduled work time for:
A.	Examinations or interviews for state employment;
B.	To receive assessment from the Employee Assistance Program; or
C.	To serve as a member of a jury.
Employees will receive their basic salary and be allowed to retain any compensation paid to them for their jury duty service.
12.2	Employees will not be eligible for per diem or travel expenses under this Article.
12.3	Bereavement Leave
A.	An employee is entitled up to three (3) days of paid bereavement leave if his or her family member or household member dies.
B.	The Employer may require verification of the family member’s or household member’s death.
C.	For the purpose of bereavement a family member is defined as parent, step-parent, sister, brother, parent-in-law, spouse, grandparent, grandchild, child and step-child. A household member is defined as persons who reside in the same house who have reciprocal duties to and do provide financial support for one another. This term does not include persons sharing the same house when the living style is primarily that of a dormitory or commune.
D.	In addition to paid bereavement leave, the Employer may approve an employee’s request to use sick leave, vacation, personal holiday or leave
27
without pay for purposes of bereavement in accordance with this Agreement.
12.4	Personal Leave
A.	An employee may choose one (I) workday as a personal leave day each fiscal year during the life of this Agreement if the employee has been continuously employed for more than six (6) months.
B.	The Employer will release the employee from work on the day selected for personal leave if:
1.	The employee has given at least fourteen (14) calendar days’ written notice to his or her supervisor. However, the supervisor has the discretion to allow a shorter notice period.
2.	The number of employees selecting a particular day off does not prevent the agency from providing continued public service.
3.	The employee’s use of such a leave day does not require the Employer to incur any additional costs, such as backfilling for a position with overtime.
C.	Part-time and on-call employees who are employed during the month in which the personal leave day is taken will be compensated for the personal leave day in an amount proportionate to the time in pay status during the month to that required for full-time employment.
D.	Upon request, an employee will be approved to use part or all of his or her personal leave day for;
1.	The care for family members as required by the Family Care Act, WAC 296-130;
2.	Leave as required by the Military Family Leave Act, RCW 49.77 and in accordance with Article 13.10; or
3.	Leave as required by the Domestic Violence Leave Act, RCW 49.76.
E.	This provision will expire on June 30, 2011.
28
Article 13
Leave Without Pay
13.1	Leave without pay shall be granted for the following reasons:
A.	Family and medical leave;
B.	Compensable work-related injury or illness leave;
C.	Military leave;
D.	Volunteer firefighting leave;
E.	Family military leave;
F.	Domestic violence leave.
13.2	Leave without pay may be granted for the following reasons:
A.	Child and elder care emergencies;
B.	Governmental service leave;
C.	Educational Leave;
D.	Conditions applicable for leave with	pay;
E.	As otherwise provided for in this Agreement.
13.3	Limitations
Leave without pay shall be limited to no more than twelve (12) months in any consecutive five (5) year period, except for FMLA, compensable work-related injury or illness, governmental service or military leaves.
13.4	Returning Employee Rights
Employees returning from authorized leave without pay shall be employed in the same position or in another position in the same job classification and the same geographical area, as determined by the Employer, provided that such reemployment is not in conflict with other articles in this Agreement.
13.5	Compensable Work-Related Injury or Illness Leave
An employee who sustains a work-related illness or injury that is compensable under the state workers’ compensation law may select time-loss compensation exclusively or leave payments in addition to time-loss compensation. Employees who take sick leave during a period in which they receive time-loss compensation will receive full sick leave pay, minus any time-loss benefits. Employees who take vacation leave during a period in which they receive time-loss compensation will receive full vacation leave pay in addition to any time-loss payments, unless the employee is receiving assault benefit compensation equal to full pay. Leave for a work-related injury, covered by workers’ compensation or assault benefits, will run concurrently with the FMLA.
13.6	Military Leave
In addition to the twenty-one (21) days of paid leave granted to employees for active duty or active duty training, unpaid military leave will be granted in
29
accordance with RCW 38.40.060 and applicable federal law. Employees on military leave will be reinstated as provided in RCW 73.16 and applicable federal law.
13.7	Child and Elder Care Emergencies
Leave without pay may be granted for child and elder care emergencies and is limited to a maximum of three (3) days per calendar year. Paid leave may also be used for child and elder care emergencies, subject to the limitations above.
13.8	Governmental Service Leave
Leave without pay may be granted for government service in the public interest, including but not limited to the U.S. Public Health Service or Peace Corps leave.
13.9	Volunteer Firefighting Leave
Leave without pay will be granted when an employee who is a volunteer firefighter is called to duty to respond to a fire, natural disaster or medical emergency.
13.10	Family Military Leave
Leave without pay will be granted to an employee whose spouse is on leave from deployment or before and up to deployment, during a period of military conflict. Use of leave without pay, compensatory time, vacation leave, sick leave, and all or part of a personal holiday is limited to a combined maximum of fifteen (15) working days per deployment. Employees must provide the Employer with five (5) business days notice after receipt of official notice that the employee’s spouse will be on leave or of an impending call to active duty.
13.11	Domestic Violence Leave
Leave without pay, including intermittent leave, will be granted to an employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking. Family members of a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking will be granted leave without pay to help the victim obtain treatment or seek help. Family member for the purpose of domestic violence leave includes child, spouse, parent, parent-in-law, grandparent or a person the employee is dating. The Employer may require verification from the employee requesting leave in accordance with RCW 49.76.
Article 14
Grievance Procedure
14.1	Terms and Requirements
A.	Grievance Definition
A grievance is an allegation by a permanent employee or a group of permanent employees that there has been an act that violates this Agreement. The term “grievant” as used in this Article includes the term “grievants.”
30
B.	Filing a Grievance
Grievances may be filed by the Union on behalf of an employee or on behalf of a group of employees. If the Union does so, it will set forth the name of the employee or the names of the group of employees. Whenever possible, disputes should be resolved informally, at the lowest level. To that end, all managers and employees are encouraged to engage in free and open discussions about disputes.
C.	Computation
Days are calendar days, and will be counted by excluding the first day and including the last day of time limits. When the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the last day will be the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or holiday. Transmittal of grievances, appeals and responses will be in writing, and time limits will apply to the date of receipt, not the date of postmarking.
D.	Time Limits
Failure by the Union to comply with the time limits will result in the automatic withdrawal of the grievance. Failure by the Employer to comply with the time limits will entitle the Union to move the grievance to the next step of the procedure. However, time limits designated in this Article may be modified upon mutual written consent of the parties.
E.	Contents
The written grievance must include the following information:
1.	The nature of the grievance;
2.	The facts upon which it is based;
3.	The specific article and section of the Agreement violated;
4.	The specific remedy requested; and
5.	The name of the grievant(s) and the Union representative.
F.	Modifications
No newly alleged violations may be made after the initial written grievance is filed, except by written mutual agreement.
G.	Resolution
If the Employer provides the requested remedy or a mutually agreed-upon alternative, the grievance will be considered resolved and may not be moved to the next step.
H.	Withdrawal
A grievance may be withdrawn at any time.
31
I.	Resubmission
If terminated, resolved or withdrawn, the same grievance cannot be resubmitted.
J.	Pay
Grievants will not lose pay for attending grievance meetings held during their scheduled work time. Grievants will not be paid for meetings held during their off-duty time; nor shall the grievant accumulate any additional hours of pay over his or her normal schedule for participating in a grievance meeting. Additionally, the Employer will not pay grievants for travel time, per diem or preparation related to grievances.
K.	Group Grievances
No more than three (3) grievants will be permitted to attend a single grievance meeting.
L.	Consolidation
The Employer and/or the Union may consolidate grievances arising out of the same set of facts.
M.	Bypass
Any of the steps in this procedure may be bypassed with mutual written consent of the parties involved at the time the bypass is sought.
N.	Discipline
Disciplinary grievances will be initiated at the level at which the disputed action was taken.
O.	Alternative Resolution Methods
Any time during the grievance process, by mutual consent, the parties may use alternative methods, including mediation, to resolve disputes. If the parties agree to use alternative methods, the timelines in this Article are suspended. If the selected alternative method does not result in a resolution, the Union may return to the grievance process and the timelines resume. Any expenses and fees of alternative methods will be shared equally by the parties.
14.2	Filing and Processing
A. Filing
1.	A grievance must be filed within fifteen (15) days of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance, or the date the grievant knew or could reasonably have known of the occurrence.
2.	A grievance alleging loss of pay for hours worked is subject to the provision of Section 14.3 of this Article. The remedy of such grievance shall not exceed the statutory limitations.
32
Process
Step 1: Written Submission to Operations Manager
If the issue is not resolved informally at the Store level, the Union may submit a grievance in writing, which will contain the information described in Subsection 14.1 E, to the Operations Manager with a copy to the Human Resources Office within the fifteen (15) day period described in Subsection 14.2 A, above. The Operations Manager or designee will meet or confer by telephone with the Union representative within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of the Step 1 written submittal, and will respond in writing to the Union within fifteen (15) days after the meeting or conference.
Step 2: Written Submission to Administrative Director
If the grievance is not resolved at Step 1, the Union may move it to the next step by filing the written grievance with the Administrative Director, with a copy to the Human Resources Office, within fifteen (15) days of the Union’s receipt of the Step 1 decision. The Administrative Director or designee will respond in writing to the Union within thirty (30) days after the receipt of the Step 1 decision.
Step 3: Arbitration
If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2, the Union may file a demand for arbitration (with a copy of the grievance and all responses attached). It will be filed with the Director of the OFM Labor Relations Office (OFM/LRO) and the agency’s Human Resources Office within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the Step 2 decision. Within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of the arbitration demand, the OFM/LRO will discuss with the Union the need to schedule a pre-arbitration review meeting. If agreed, the OFM/LRO Director or designee, the agency Human Resources Director, and the Union’s representative will meet to review and attempt to settle the dispute.
If the parties are unable to reach an agreement to conduct a pre-arbitration meeting or if the matter is not resolved at a pre-arbitration meeting, the OFM/LRO and the Union will, within fifteen (15) days, meet and attempt to agree upon an arbitrator. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement on an arbitrator the Union may, within fifteen (15) days, file a demand to arbitrate the matter with the American Arbitration Association (AAA).
Selecting an AAA Arbitrator
The parties will select an arbitrator by mutual agreement or by alternately striking names supplied by the AAA, and will follow the Labor Arbitration Rules of the AAA unless they agree otherwise, in writing.
33
D.	Authority of the Arbitrator
1.	The arbitrator will:
a.	Have no authority to add to, subtract from, or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement;
b.	Be limited in his or her decision to the grievance issue(s) set forth in the original written grievance unless the parties agree to modify it;
c.	Not make any award that provides an employee with compensation greater than would have resulted had there been no violation of this Agreement;
d.	Not have the authority to order the Employer to modify his or her staffing levels or to direct staff to work overtime.
2.	The arbitrator will hear arguments on and decide issues of arbitrability before the first day of arbitration at a time convenient for the parties, immediately prior to hearing the case on its merits, or as part of the entire hearing and decision-making process. If the issue of arbitrability is argued prior to the first day of arbitration, it may be argued in writing or by telephone, at the discretion of the arbitrator. Although the decision may be made orally, it will be put in writing and provided to the parties.
3.	The decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon the Union, the Employer and the grievant.
E.	Arbitration Costs
1.	The expenses and fees of the arbitrator, and the cost (if any) of the hearing room will be shared equally by the parties.
2.	If the arbitration hearing is postponed or canceled because of one party, that party will bear the cost of the postponement or cancellation. The costs of any mutually agreed upon postponements or cancellations will be shared equally by the parties.
3.	If either party desires a record of the arbitration, a court reporter may be used. If that party purchases a transcript, a copy will be provided to the arbitrator, free of charge. If the other party desires a copy of the transcript, it will pay for half (1/2) of the costs of the fee for the court reporter, and a fee for a copy of the transcript, if required.
34
4.	Each party is responsible for the costs of its representatives and witnesses. Grievants and their witnesses will not be paid by the Employer for preparation for, travel to or from, or participation in arbitration hearings, but may use leave for such activities.
14.3 Election of Remedies
Pursuit of a claim before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Human Rights Commission, or in a judicial or other forum constitutes a waiver of the right to pursue the same claim through arbitration under this Article.
Article 15 Discipline
15.1	The Employer will not discipline any permanent employee without just cause.
15.2	Discipline includes oral and written reprimands, reductions in pay, suspensions, demotions, and discharges. Oral reprimands will be identified as such. Any written reprimand, including an oral reprimand, if documented, will be given to the employee.
15.3	Prior to imposing discipline, except oral or written reprimands, the Employer will inform the employee in writing of the reasons for the contemplated discipline and an explanation of the evidence. The Employer will provide the Union a copy of the written reasons for the contemplated discipline. The employee will be provided an opportunity to respond either at a meeting scheduled by the Employer, or in writing if the employee prefers. A pre-disciplinary meeting with the Employer will be considered time worked.
15.4	The Employer has the authority to impose discipline, which is then subject to the grievance procedure set forth in Article 14. Oral and written reprimands may not be processed through the grievance procedure. However, if further discipline results in a reduction in pay, suspension, demotion or discharge the Union may challenge the written reprimands of such discipline, if applicable.
Article 16
Labor/Management Communication Committee
16.1	Purpose
A Labor/Management Communication Committee will be established at the statewide agency level. The purpose of the committee is to provide continuing communication between the parties and to promote constructive labor/management relations.
16.2	Committee
The committee will meet, discuss and exchange information of a group nature and general interest to both parties:
35
A.	Composition
The committee shall consist of up to four (4) employer representatives plus one (1) Human Resources representative and up to four (4) employee representatives plus one (1) Union representative. The Employer and Union will be responsible for the selection of their own representatives. If agreed to by both parties, additional representatives may be added.
B.	Participation
1.	The Employer agrees to pay employees while participating as representatives of the Union in committee meetings, provided that no overtime, per diem, travel or other payments will be paid to these employees as a result of participation in these meetings.
2.	The Union is responsible for paying any travel or per diem expenses of employee representatives.
C.	Meetings
All committee meetings shall be scheduled on mutually acceptable dates and times.
D.	Scope of Authority
Committee meetings will be used for discussions only, and the committee shall have no authority to conduct any negotiations, bargain collectively or modify any provision of this Agreement. Nothing in this Article or any committee’s activities shall be subject to the grievance procedure in Article 14.
Article 17
Safety and Health
17.1	Workplace Safety
A.	The Employer and the employee have a responsibility for workplace safety. The Union will work cooperatively on safety related matters and encourage employees to work in a safe manner.
B.	The Employer will provide a work environment in accordance with safety standards established by the Washington Industrial Safety and Health Act (WISHA).
C.	Employees will comply with all safety practices and standards established by WISHA and the Employer.
17.2	CPR/Safety Training
The Employer and the Union recognize the importance of CPR and safety training. It is their desire that CPR training be provided to enough employees to
36
have someone working with such training, subject to available resources and agency guidelines.
17.3	Personal Safety
The Employer will continue its efforts to minimize the exposure of employees to harm in stores where armed robbery and violence present a continuing problem. No bargaining unit employee will be required to make a bank deposit alone after dark or after 6:00 p.m., whichever is later. Employees will not be required to apprehend shoplifters or others suspected of criminal activities. The Employer will respond in a timely manner to employee concerns about safety and safety related issues.
17.4	Store Keys
There will be a store employee with access to the store keys and safe on duty at all times during store operations.
Article 18
Training
18.1	The Employer and the Union recognize the value and benefit of training programs designed to enhance employees’ abilities to perform their job duties. The Employer will establish and offer formalized training programs, such as use of computers, product knowledge, ID/Over-service, safety and agency policies.
18.2	Employees will be compensated for all time spent in required training program participation, including necessary travel time. Training will be considered as time worked.
18.3	A new employee may be scheduled up to twenty-four (24) hours for training purposes during the first two (2) months of employment without adhering to seniority scheduling.
18.4	Probationary and trial service employees will be scheduled a minimum of fifteen (15) minutes per week for the first six (6) months for the purpose of studying the agency’s policies and procedures in the store. All other employees will be provided access and reasonable time to review agency procedural updates.
18.5	Training programs and opportunities will be provided to employees in accordance with agency policies and available resources. In the event an employee is denied a required/mandatory training opportunity, management will provide a written response indicating the reason(s) for such denial, upon request by the affected employee.
37
Article 19 Personnel Files
19.1	Personnel File
The Employer will maintain an official personnel file for each employee. This will not preclude the maintenance of other files and records as needed or required by the Employer. The location of personnel files will be determined by the agency.
19.2	File Review and Copies
On request, an employee may examine his or her own personnel file. The request must be in writing and submitted to the agency Human Resources Director, or designee, with at least twenty-four (24) hours’ advance notice. Written authorization is also required before any representative of the employee will be granted access to the personnel file. In addition, an employee may, upon request, review the file maintained in the store by the store manager.
The employee or their representative may not remove any contents of the personnel file; however, the employee may have one (1) copy of any information contained within the personnel file. The Employer may charge a reasonable fee for copying any material beyond the first copy requested by the employee or his or her representative.
19.3	Employee Response
The employee may provide a written rebuttal to any information in the personnel file that he or she considers objectionable. In addition, the employee may request the Human Resources Director to review the relevance of objectionable information and request the removal of such information. If the Human Resources Director considers the objectionable information no longer relevant, it will be removed.
Article 20 Management Rights
20.1	The Employer retains all rights of management, which, in addition to all powers, duties and rights established by constitutional provision or statute, shall include but not be limited to, the right to:
A.	Determine the Employer’s functions, programs, organizational structure and use of technology;
B.	Determine the Employer’s budget and size of the agency’s workforce and the financial basis for layoffs;
C.	Direct and supervise employees;
38
D.	Take all necessary actions to carry out the mission of the state and this agency during emergencies.
20.2	In addition to the above, the Employer retains all customary rights, authorities, and prerogatives of management, except as expressly limited by the terms of this Agreement. These rights of management shall include, but not be limited to, the right to:
A.	Determine the Employer’s mission and strategic plans;
B.	Develop, enforce, modify or terminate any policy, procedure, manual or work method associated with the operations of the Employer;
C.	Determine or consolidate the location of operations, offices, work sites, including permanently or temporarily moving operations in whole or part to other locations;
D.	Establish or modify the workweek, daily work shift, hours of work and days off;
E.	Establish work performance standards, which include, but are not limited to, the priority, quality and quantity of work;
F.	Establish, allocate, reallocate or abolish positions, and determine the skills and abilities necessary to perform the duties of such positions;
G.	Select, hire, assign, reassign, evaluate, retain, promote, demote, transfer, and temporarily or permanently lay off employees;
H.	Determine, prioritize and assign work to be performed;
I.	Determine the need for and the method of scheduling, assigning,
authorizing and approving overtime;
J.	Determine training needs, methods of training and employees to be trained;
K.	Determine the reasons for and methods by which employees will be laid off; and
L.	Suspend, demote, reduce pay, discharge, and/or take other disciplinary actions for just cause.
20.3	The Employer’s non-exercise of any right, prerogative or function shall not be deemed a waiver of such right or establishment of a practice.
39
20.4	The parties understand and agreed that there exists within the agency personnel rules, policies and written guidelines which will continue in effect for the period of this Agreement, unless or until changed by the Employer, or as required by appropriate laws, orders, or regulations.
Article 21
Union Activities
21.1	Union Representatives
A.	Within thirty (30) calendar days from the effective date of this Agreement, the Union will provide the Employer with a written list of Union representatives (defined as paid Union staff) and the geographic jurisdictions they are responsible for. The Union will provide written notice to the Employer of any changes within thirty (30) calendar days of the changes.
B.	Union representatives will be allowed reasonable contact with members for the purpose of representational activities in non-work areas. The Union representative will notify the employee in charge before conducting Union business on the Employer’s premises, provided it does not interfere with normal store operations.
21.2	Shop Stewards
A.	Any permanent employee of the bargaining unit who has been employed for a period of at least six (6) months may serve as a Union shop steward. The total number of shop stewards within the bargaining unit will not exceed forty (40).
B.	Within thirty (30) calendar days from the effective date of this Agreement, the Union will provide the Employer with a written list of current shop stewards. The Union will maintain the list. The Employer will not recognize an employee as a shop steward if his or her name does not appear on the list.
C.	Shop stewards will be released during their scheduled working hours to carry out Union directed representational activities, subject to the operational needs of the applicable store. The shop steward will obtain approval from his or her manager before participating in the activity. Activities conducted during the shop steward’s non-work hours will not be considered as time worked.
When it is necessary for shop stewards to conduct authorized Union business in a store other than their own, they will notify the employee in charge of that store or shift of their presence and the nature of their business.
40
D.	The parties recognize that the shop steward is employed to perform all scheduled work for the Employer. Any disputes as to whether any shop steward or Union staff representative is spending an unreasonable amount of time in any store conducting Union business will be resolved by the Human Resources Director or designee and the Union Executive Officer or designee.
21.3	Bulletin Boards
A.	The Employer will permit the Union to use reasonable space approved for the purpose of posting Union business matters. The following types of Union letters or announcements may be posted:
1.	Notice of social affairs of the Union;
2.	Union Meetings;
3.	Union elections and appointments;
4.	Results of Union elections; and
5.	Contract (Collective Bargaining Agreement).
Additional materials may be posted subject to the approval of the Human Resources Director or designee.
B.	All materials listed in Subsection A above, will be officially identified as UFCW Local 21 material.
Article 22
Non-Operational Worksites
22.1	If the Employer decides that a state office or work location is non-operational for reasons including inclement weather, natural disasters, and safety threats, the Employer may take the following actions:
A.	Employees may be released with no loss of pay during any disruption of services.
B.	Employees may be reassigned to similar positions at locations within a reasonable driving distance from the non-operational location during any disruption of services. Reimbursement for mileage will be in accordance with the Office of Financial Management travel regulations.
22.2	Absence due to an employee’s inability to report for scheduled work because of severe inclement weather or conditions caused by severe inclement weather will be charged in the following order:
A.	Any accrued vacation leave;
B.	Accrued sick leave up to a maximum of three (3) days in any calendar year;
41
C.	Leave without pay.
Although the types of paid time off will be used in the order listed above, each type of paid time off will be exhausted before the next is used. Employees will be permitted to use leave without pay rather than paid time off at their request.
22.3	Tardiness due to an employee’s inability to report for scheduled work because of severe inclement weather or conditions caused by severe inclement weather will be allowed up to one (1) hour at the beginning of the workday. Inclement weather tardiness in excess of one (1) hour will be charged as provided for in Section 22.2, above.
Article 23
Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace
23.1	All employees must report to work in a condition fit to perform their assigned duties unimpaired by alcohol or drugs.
23.2	Possession of Alcohol and Illegal Drugs
A.	Employees may not use or possess alcohol in state vehicles, on agency premises, or other governmental or private worksites where employees are assigned to conduct official state business, except when the premises or state vehicles are used for the transportation, purchase, distribution and sale of alcohol pursuant to state law.
B.	The unlawful use, possession, delivery, dispensation, distribution, manufacture or sale of drugs in state vehicles, on agency premises, or on official business is prohibited.
23.3	Prescription and Over-the-Counter Medications
Employees taking physician-prescribed or over-the-counter medications, if there is a substantial likelihood that such medication will affect job safety, must notify their supervisor or other designated official of the fact that they are taking a medication and the side effects of the medication. Any information employees provide regarding prescription or over-the-counter medications they are taking will be held in the strictest of confidence.
23.4	Reasonable Suspicion Testing
A.	Reasonable suspicion testing for alcohol or controlled substances may be directed by the Employer for any employee when there is reason to suspect that alcohol or controlled substance usage may be adversely affecting the employee’s job performance, that the employee has used alcohol or a controlled substance prior to reporting to work or usage occurred during the assigned work day, or that the employee may present a danger to the physical safety of the employee or another. Specific
42
objective grounds must be stated in writing that support the reasonable suspicion.
1.	The controlled substances to be tested for are those covered under current federal regulations: marijuana metabolites, cocaine metabolites, amphetamines, opiate metabolites, and phencyclidine (PCP). The test will be done through a urine sample.
2.	The threshold levels for testing are those outlined in Section 40.87 of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration regulations.
3.	The threshold for a positive alcohol test is that established by the Washington State Patrol and may only be administered by a Washington State Patrol Trooper by a breathalyzer.
B.	Post Accident Testing
A post-accident test may be conducted when a work-related incident has occurred involving death, serious bodily injury or significant property damage, or the potential for death, serious injury, or significant property damage, and when the employee’s action(s) or inaction(s) contributed to the incident.
C.	Referral
Referral for testing will be made on the basis of specific objective grounds documented by a manager who has attended training on detecting the signs/symptoms of being affected by controlled substances/alcohol. The manager must confer with the Appointing Authority or designee, who must then approve the referral for testing.
D.	Testing
When reasonable suspicion exists, employees must submit to alcohol and/or controlled substance testing when required by the Employer. A refusal to test is considered the same as a positive test. When an employee is referred for testing, he or she will be removed immediately from duty and transported to the federally approved collection site. The cost of reasonable suspicion testing, including the employee’s salary, will be paid by the Employer.
Testing will be conducted in such a way to ensure maximum accuracy and reliability by using the techniques, chain of custody procedures, equipment and laboratory facilities, that have been approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. All employees notified of a positive controlled substance or alcohol test result may request an independent test of their split sample at the employee’s expense. If the test result is negative, the Employer will reimburse the employee for the cost of the split sample test.
43
An employee who has a positive alcohol test and/or a positive controlled substance test will be referred to the Employee Advisory Service (EAS) for evaluation of possible treatment options. However, the employee may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal, based on the incident that prompted the testing, including a violation of the drug and alcohol free work place rules. If there are no other just cause related issues, the employee will be permitted to return to work. If there are other just cause related issues, the Employer will make a decision on a case-by-case basis.
23.5	Training
Training will be made available to Managers and Assistant Managers. Training will include:
A.	The elements of the Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace Program;
B.	The effects of drugs and alcohol in the workplace;
C.	Behavioral symptoms of being affected by controlled substances and/or alcohol; and
D.	Rehabilitation services available.
Article 24 Off-Duty Conduct
The off-duty activities of an employee will not be grounds for disciplinary action unless said activities are a conflict of interest as set forth in RCW 42.52 and RCW 66, or are detrimental to the employee’s work performance or the program of the agency, or otherwise constitutes just cause. Employees will report any convictions and any court-imposed sanctions or conditions that would prevent or negatively affect their ability to perform assigned duties to their Appointing Authority within twenty-four (24) hours or prior to their scheduled work shift, whichever occurs first.
Article 25
Non-Discrimination
Under this Agreement, neither party will discriminate against employees on the basis of religion, age, gender, marital status, race, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, status as a disabled veteran or Vietnam era veteran, sexual orientation, or any real or perceived sensory, mental or physical disability or new designation which may be recognized by State or Federal law. Bona fide occupational qualifications based on the above, do not violate this Section.
44
Article 26
Employee Requested Transfers
Permanent employees may request a transfer from one store to another by forwarding a transfer request to the Human Resources Division in Olympia. Managers will receive the names of employees who have requested transfers to their store when they have an opening. Such transfer requests will be carefully reviewed by the manager of the store before using another appropriate register. Seniority, skills and ability of the employees requesting transfer will be carefully reviewed and considered. Employer decisions on merit and ability must be made based on job criteria. If two (2) employees have the same qualification, skills and ability, the senior employee has priority. The Union may, upon request to the Human Resources Director, review the transfer register. Once a requested transfer is made, the employee may not request further transfers for a period of three (3) months. The transfer request will be honored for twelve (12) months. Employees seeking transfers must renew the request twelve (12) months from the date of receipt in the Human Resources Division, in Olympia.
The interview procedure for transfers to available positions is as follows: Complete a three-part NCR form. One copy remains with the requester (employee) and two (2) copies given to Human Resources, in Olympia, to signify receipt of the request. Human Resources will return a copy to the requester when the card is received in the Olympia Human Resources office to signify receipt of the request.
Article 27 Layoff and Recall
27.1	The Employer will determine the basis for, extent, effective date and the length of layoffs.
27.2	Basis for Layoff
Layoffs may occur for any of the following reasons:
A.	Lack of funds;
B.	Lack of work;
C.	Good faith reorganization;
D.	Fewer positions	available than the number of employees entitled to such
positions either by statute or other provision.
27.3	Voluntary Layoff, Leave of Absence or Reduction in Hours
Appointing authorities may allow an employee to volunteer to be laid off, take an unpaid leave of absence or reduce his or her hours of work in order to reduce layoffs. If it is necessary to limit the number of employees in an agency on unpaid leave at the same time, the Appointing Authority will determine who will be granted a leave of absence and/or reduction in hours based upon staffing needs. Employees who volunteer to be laid off may request to participate in the General
45
Government Transition Pool Program and/or have their names placed on the internal layoff list for the job classifications in which they held permanent status.
27.4	Non-Permanent and Probationary Employees
Employees with permanent status will not be separated from state service through a layoff action without first being offered positions they have the skills and abilities to perform within their current job classification within the layoff unit currently held by non-permanent and probationary employees. Non-permanent employees will be separated from employment before probationary employees.
27.5	Temporary Layoff
A.	The Employer may temporarily layoff an employee for up to sixty (60) calendar days due to an unanticipated loss of funding, revenue shortfall, lack of work, shortage of material or equipment, or other unexpected or unusual reasons. Employees will normally receive notice of seven (7) calendar days of a temporary layoff. Further, when the circumstance which required the temporary layoff is resolved or the sixty (60) calendar day period is reached, whichever is shorter, the employee will be returned to their previous or equivalent position.
B.	An employee who is temporarily laid off will not be entitled to:
1.	Be paid any sick leave balance;
2.	Bump to any other position; or
3.	Be placed on the internal layoff list.
27.6	Layoff Units
A.	A layoff unit is defined as the geographical entity or administrative/organizational unit in the agency used for determining available options for employees who are being laid off.
B.	The layoff units for the employees covered by this Agreement are:
1.	Stores within a forty (40) mile radius of the home store; then
2.	Statewide.
27.7	Informal Options
Employees being laid off may be offered funded vacant positions within their layoff unit, provided they meet the skills and abilities required of the position and it is at the same or lower salary range as the position in which they currently hold permanent status. Management will determine if the employee possesses the required skills and abilities for the position.
27.8	Formal Options
Employees will be laid off in accordance with seniority, as defined in Article 5, Seniority, and the skills and abilities of the employee. However, the Employer
46
may deviate from this process where there is documented performance issues regarding the employee’s skills and abilities. Employees being laid off will be provided the following options to comparable positions in descending order within the layoff unit:
A.	A funded vacant position for which the employee has the skills and abilities, within his or her current job classification.
B.	A funded filled position held by the least senior employee for which the employee has the skills and abilities, within his or her current job classification.
C.	A funded vacant or filled position held by the least senior employee for which the employee has the skills and abilities, at the same or lower salary range as their current permanent position, within a job classification in which the employee has held permanent status.
D.	Options will be provided in descending order of salary range and one (1) progressively lower level at a time. Vacant positions will be offered prior to filled positions.
27.9	Notification to Employees with Permanent Status
A.	Except for temporary layoffs, as provided in Section 27.5 above, employees with permanent status will receive written notice at least fifteen (15) calendar days before the effective layoff date. The notice will include the basis for the layoff and any formal options available to the employee. The Union will be provided with a copy of the notice.
B.	Except for temporary layoffs, as provided in Section 27.5 above, if the Employer chooses to implement a layoff action without providing fifteen (15) calendar days notice, the employee will be paid his or her salary for the days that he or she would have worked had full notice been given.
C.	Employees will be provided five (5) calendar days to accept or decline, in writing, any formal option provided to them. This time period will run concurrent with the fifteen (15) calendar days’ notice provided by the Employer to the employee.
D.	The day that notification is given constitutes the first day of notice.
47
27.10	Salary
Employees appointed to a position as a result of a layoff action will have their salary determined as follows:
A.	Transfer or Bump
An employee who accepts a transfer or bumps to another position within their current job classification will retain his or her current salary.
B.	Voluntary Demotion in Lieu of Layoff and Bump to a Lower Position An employee who bumps to another position with a lower salary range will be paid an amount equal to his or her current salary, provided it is within the salary range of the new position. In those cases where the employee’s current salary exceeds the maximum amount of the salary range for the new position, the employee will be compensated at the maximum salary of the new salary range.
C.	Appointment from an Internal Layoff List
1.	Employees who are appointed from an internal layoff list to a position with the same salary range from which they were laid off will be paid the amount in which they were compensated when laid off plus any across the board adjustments including salary survey adjustments that occurred during the time they were laid off.
2.	Employees who are appointed from an internal layoff list to a position with a lower salary range than the position from which they were laid off will be paid an amount equal to the salary they were receiving at the time they were laid off, provided it is within the salary range of the new position. In those cases where the employee’s prior salary exceeds the maximum amount of the salary range for the new position, the employee will be compensated at the maximum salary of the new salary range.
27.11	Transition Review Period
A.	The Employer will require an employee to complete a six (6) month transition review period when the employee accepts a layoff option to a job classification in which he or she has:
1.	Not held permanent status;
2.	Been appointed from the General Government Transition Pool Program; or
3.	Been appointed from an internal layoff list.
B.	The Employer will have the authority to shorten an employee’s review period. Employees will receive a permanent appointment to the position upon successful completion of the transition review period.
48
C.	The Employer may separate an employee or an employee may voluntarily separate during the transition review period. Upon separation, and at the employee’s request, the employee’s name will be placed on or returned to the internal layoff list. The employee will remain on the list until such time as his or her eligibility expires or he or she has been rehired. Separation during the transition review period will not be subject to the grievance procedure in Article 14.
27.12	Recall
A.	The Employer will maintain an internal layoff list for each job classification. Employees who are laid off may have their name placed on the list for the job classification from which they were laid off or bumped. Additionally, employees may request to have their name placed on the internal layoff list for other job classifications in which they have held permanent status. An employee will remain on internal layoff lists for two (2) years from the effective date of his or her layoff.
B.	When a vacancy occurs within the agency and when there are names on an internal layoff list, the Employer will comply with (see Appendix E, attached, titled 41.80.20 (3) Subsection 7 B). An employee who is offered a position and refuses the offer will have his or her name removed from the list.
Article 28
General Conditions
28.1	Uniforms
The Employer will supply and launder store jackets. Canvas-type aprons will be provided for those employees requesting special apparel for load or stocking duties up to a maximum of two (2) aprons per store. Employees will receive reimbursement in the amount of one dollar ($1.00) each time they launder their uniform jackets. Payment will be from the store petty cash fund.
28.2	Stock Transfers
Operational requirements involving transfers of stock will be duty time and compensated at the appropriate rate of pay. Authorized use of a private automobile for such transfer will be compensated for at the maximum allowable rate established by the Office of Financial Management. Employees incur no liability for such transfers, except in the case of violation of operational security. Staff using their private cars to transfer stock between stores must provide proof of insurance for their personal vehicle.
28.3	Personnel Policies
The Employer agrees that current copies of the Employer’s written personnel policies, work rules, and operational procedures will be available in each store for
49
review by employees. In addition, the Union will be provided a copy of all new and/or revised policies and procedures.
28.4	Agreement Distribution
The Employer will distribute one (1) copy of this Agreement to each employee and to each newly hired employee.
28.5	Union Store Card
The Employer agrees to post a “Union Store Card”, supplied by the Union, which is no larger than five (5) inches by seven (7) inches, in a prominent place in the lobby of the liquor store.
28.6	Sunday Work
If established by law, employees may not be required to work on a Sunday for the purpose of selling liquor if doing so would violate their religious beliefs.
Article 29
Status Reports
29.1	Status Report
Each month, the Employer will provide the Union with a report in an electronic format, if maintained by the Employer, of the following data for employees in the bargaining unit:
A.	Name;
B.	Employee Identification Number;
C.	Mailing Address;
D.	Work Location;
E.	Work Telephone Number;
F.	Salary Rate
G.	Transfer Date;
H.	Appointment Status;
1.	Seniority Date;
J.	Hire Date;
K.	Termination date.
29.2	Monthly Dues Report
Each month, the Employer will provide the Union a report in an electronic format of the following data:
A.	Name;
B.	Employee Identification Number;
C.	Dues Amount Paid.
50
Article 30
Strikes and Lockout Prohibition
30.1	Strikes
The Union agrees there will be no strike or work stoppage or other refusals to perform work by employees covered by this Agreement arising from any issue or dispute concerning matters over which the Employer may lawfully exercise discretion. If any employee violates this provision, the Union agrees to:
A.	Request the employee to return to work immediately.
B.	Notify the employee that participation in such an action is a violation of this Agreement and may subject him or her to disciplinary action by the Employer.
30.2	Lockout
The Employer agrees not to lock out any employee during the life of this Agreement.
Article 31 Entire Agreement
31.1	This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and any past practice or past agreement between the parties—whether written or oral—is null and void, unless specifically preserved in this Agreement.
31.2	With regard to WACs 356 and 357, this Agreement preempts all subjects addressed, in whole or in part, by its provisions.
31.3	This Agreement supersedes specific provisions of agency policies, procedures and written guidelines with which it conflicts.
31.4	During the negotiations of the Agreement, each party had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter appropriate for collective bargaining. Therefore, each party voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right and will not be obligated to bargain collectively during the term of this Agreement. However, nothing herein will be construed as a waiver of the Union’s collective rights with respect to changes in matters which are mandatory subjects, negotiable under the law.
Article 32
Savings Clause
32.1	If any court or board of competent jurisdiction finds any article, section or portion of this Agreement to be unlawful or invalid, the remainder of the Agreement will
51
remain in full force and effect. If such a finding is made, the parties agree to make themselves available to negotiate a substitute for the invalid article, section or portion.
32.2	The Employer and the Union acknowledge that certain provisions of this Agreement are dependent upon the capacity, scope, and budget of the new SAP Human Resource Management System. If it is determined by the Department of Personnel that the new SAP Human Resource Management System cannot support the implementation of any provision of this Agreement the parties will reopen that subject.
Article 33 Duration
33.1	All provisions of this Agreement will become effective July 1, 2009, and will remain in full force and effect through June 30, 2011. However, in accordance with RCW 41.80.090, if this Agreement expires while negotiations between the Union and the Employer are underway for a successor Agreement, the terms and conditions of this Agreement will remain in effect for a period not to exceed one (1) year from the expiration date. Thereafter, the Employer may unilaterally implement according to law.
33.2	Either party may request negotiations of a successor Agreement by notifying the other party in writing no sooner than March 1, 2010, and no later than March 31, 2010. In the event that such notice is given, negotiations will begin at a time agreed upon by the parties.
Article 34
Resignation and Abandonment
34.1	Voluntary Resignation
The Employer may permit an employee to withdraw his or her resignation at any time prior to the effective date.
34.2	Unauthorized Absence/Abandonment
When an employee has been absent without authorized leave and has failed to contact the Employer for a period of three (3) consecutive scheduled days, the employee is presumed to have resigned from his or her position. The Employer will make reasonable attempts to contact the employee to determine the cause of the absence. Such reasonable attempts will include calling the employee at his or her contact phone number and any emergency contacts on file with the Employer.
34.3	Notice of Separation
When an employee’s resignation is presumed in accordance with Section 34.2 above, the Employer will separate the employee by sending a separation notice to the employee by certified mail to the last known address of the employee. Such
52
notice will include information regarding eligibility for continuation of medical benefits.
34.4	Petition for Reinstatement
An employee, who has received a separation notice in accordance with Section 34.3, above, may petition the Employer in writing to consider reinstatement. The employee must provide proof that the absence was involuntary or unavoidable. The petition must be received by the Employer or postmarked within seven (7) calendar days after the separation notice was deposited in the United States mail.
34.5	Grievability
Denial of a petition for reinstatement is grievable. The grievance may not be based on information other than that shared with the Employer at the time of the petition for reinstatement.
53
Compensation Appendix A
General Service Salary Schedule
Effective July 1,2009 thru June 30, 2011
RANGE 14	STEP A 17664 1472 8.46 0.59	STEP B 18084 1507 8.66 0.61	STEP C 18504 1542 8.86 0.62	STEP D 18900 1575 9.05 0.63	STEP E 19356 1613 9.27 0.65	STEP F 19788 1649 9.48 0.66	STEP G 20244 1687 9.70 0.68	STEP H 20688 1724 9.91 0.69	STEP I 21156 1763 10.13 0.71	STEP J 21636 1803 10.36 0.73	STEP K 22152 1846 10.61 0.74	STEP L 22620 1885 10.83 0.76	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	18084	18504	18900	19356	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	Annual
15	1507	1542	1575	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	Monthly
	8.66	8.86	9.05	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	Hourly
	0.61	0.62	0.63	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	Standby
	18504	18900	19356	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	Annual
16	1542	1575	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	Monthly
	8.86	9.05	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	Hourly
	0.62	0.63	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	Standby
	18900	19356	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	Annual
17	1575	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	Monthly
	9.05	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	Hourly
	0.63	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	Standby
	19356	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	Annual
18	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	Monthly
	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	Hourly
	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	Standby
	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	Annual
19	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	Monthly
	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	Hourly
	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	Standby
	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	Annual
20	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	Monthly
	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	Hourly
	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	Standby
	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	Annual
21	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	Monthly
	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	Hourly
	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	Standby
	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	Annual
22	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	Monthly
	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	Hourly
	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	Standby
	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	Annual
23	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	Monthly
	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	Hourly
	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	Standby
A-l
RANGE 24	STEP A 22152 1846 10.61 0.74	STEP B 22620 1885 10.83 0.76	STEP C 23148 1929 11.09 0.78	STEP D 23700 1975 11.35 0.79	STEP E 24192 2016 11.59 0.81	STEP F 24816 2068 11.89 0.83	STEP G 25356 2113 12.14 0.85	STEP H 25932 2161 12.42 0.87	STEP I 26544 2212 12.71 0.89	STEP J 27192 2266 13.02 0.91	STEP K 27804 2317 13.32 0.93	STEP L 28440 2370 13.62 0.95	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	Annual
25	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	Monthly
	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	Hourly
	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	Standby
	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	Annual
26	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	Monthly
	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	Hourly
	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	Standby
	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	Annual
27	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	Monthly
	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	Hourly
	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	Standby
	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	Annual
28	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	Monthly
	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	Hourly
	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	Standby
	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	Annual
29	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	Monthly
	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	Hourly
	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	Standby
	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	Annual
30	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	Monthly
	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	Hourly
	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	Standby
	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	Annual
31	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	Monthly
	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	Hourly
	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	Standby
	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	Annual
32	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	Monthly
	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	Hourly
	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	Standby
	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	Annual
33	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	Monthly
	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	Hourly
	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	Standby
	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	Annual
34	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	Monthly
	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	Hourly
	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	Standby
A-2
RANGE 35	STEP A 28440 2370 13.62 0.95	STEP B 29112 2426 13.94 0.98	STEP C 29784 2482 14.26 1.00	STEP D 30504 2542 14.61 1.02	STEP E 31176 2598 14.93 1.05	STEP F 31956 2663 15.30 1.07	STEP G 32688 2724 15.66 1.10	STEP H 33468 2789 16.03 1.12	STEP 1 34260 2855 16.41 1.15	STEP J 35040 2920 16.78 1.17	STEP K 35928 2994 17.21 1.20	STEP L 36756 3063 17.60 1.23	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	Annual
36	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	Monthly
	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	Hourly
	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	Standby
	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	Annual
37	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	Monthly
	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	Hourly
	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	Standby
	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	Annual
38	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	Monthly
	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	Hourly
	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	Standby
	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	Annual
39	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	Monthly
	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	Hourly
	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	Standby
	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	Annual
40	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	Monthly
	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	Hourly
	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	Standby
	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	Annual
41	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	Monthly
	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	Hourly
	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	Standby
	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	Annual
42	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	Monthly
	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	Hourly
	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	Standby
	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	Annual
43	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	Monthly
	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	Hourly
	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	Standby
	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	Annual
44	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	Monthly
	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	Hourly
	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	Standby
	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	Annual
45	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	Monthly
	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	Hourly
	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	Standby
A-3
RANGE 46	STEP A 36756 3063 17.60 1.23	STEP B 37620 3135 18.02 1.26	STEP C 38556 3213 18.47 1.29	STEP D 39516 3293 18.93 1.33	STEP E 40524 3377 19.41 1.36	STEP F 41508 3459 19.88 1.39	STEP G 42588 3549 20.40 1.43	STEP H 43572 3631 20.87 1.46	STEP I 44712 3726 21.41 1.50	STEP J 45828 3819 21.95 1.54	STEP K 47016 3918 22.52 1.58	STEP L 48168 4014 23.07 1.61	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	Annual
47	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	Monthly
	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	Hourly
	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	Standby
	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	Annual
48	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	Monthly
	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	Hourly
	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	Standby
	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	Annual
49	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	Monthly
	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	Hourly
	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	Standby
	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	Annual
50	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	Monthly
	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	Hourly
	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	Standby
	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	Annual
51	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	Monthly
	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	Hourly
	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	Standby
	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	Annual
52	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	Monthly
	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	Hourly
	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	Standby
	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	Annual
53	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	Monthly
	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	Hourly
	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	Standby
	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	Annual
54	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	Monthly
	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	Hourly
	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	Standby
	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	Annual
55	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	Monthly
	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	Hourly
	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	Standby
	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	Annual
56	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	Monthly
	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	Hourly
	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	Standby
A-4
RANGE 57	STEP A 48168 4014 23.07 1.61	STEP B 49368 4114 23.64 1.65	STEP C 50568 4214 24.22 1.70	STEP D 51864 4322 24.84 1.74	STEP E 53148 4429 25.45 1.78	STEP F 54504 4542 26.10 1.83	STEP G 55836 4653 26.74 1.87	STEP H 57240 4770 27.41 1.92	STEP I 58656 4888 28.09 1.97	STEP J 60120 5010 28.79 2.02	STEP K 61632 5136 29.52 2.07	STEP L 63192 5266 30.26 2.12	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	Annual
58	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	Monthly
	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	Hourly
	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	Standby
	50568	51864	53148	54504	■ 55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	Annual
59	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	Monthly
	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	Hourly
	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	Standby
	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	Annual
60	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	Monthly
	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	Hourly
	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	Standby
	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	Annual
61	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	Monthly
	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	Hourly
	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	Standby
	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	Annual
62	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	Monthly
	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	Hourly
	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	Standby
	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	Annual
63	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	Monthly
	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	Hourly
	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	Standby
	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	Annual
64	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	Monthly
	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	Hourly
	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	Standby
	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	Annual
65	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	Monthly
	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	Hourly
	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	Standby
	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	Annual
66	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	Monthly
	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	Hourly
	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	Standby
	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	Annual
67	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	Monthly
	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	Hourly
	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	Standby
A-5
RANGE 68	STEP A 63192 5266 30.26 2.12	STEP B 64740 5395 31.01 2.17	STEP C 66420 5535 31.81 2.23	STEP D 68016 5668 32.57 2.28	STEP E 69756 5813 33.41 2.34	STEP F 71496 5958 34.24 2.40	STEP G 73260 6105 35.09 2.46	STEP H 75084 6257 35.96 2.52	STEP 1 76992 6416 36.87 2.58	STEP J 78900 6575 37.79 2.65	STEP K 80892 6741 38.74 2.71	STEP L 82896 6908 39.70 2.78	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	Annual
69	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	Monthly
	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	Hourly
	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	Standby
	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	Annual
70	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	Monthly
	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	Hourly
	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	Standby
	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	Annual
71	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	Monthly
	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	Hourly
	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	Standby
	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	Annual
72	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	Monthly
	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	Hourly
	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	Standby
	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	Annual
73	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	Monthly
	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	Hourly
	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	Standby
	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	Annual
74	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	Monthly
	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	Hourly
	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	Standby
	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	Annual
75	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	Monthly
	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	Hourly
	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	Standby
	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	Annual
76	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	Monthly
	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	Hourly
	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	Standby
	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	Annual
77	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	Monthly
	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	Hourly
	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	Standby
	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	Annual
78	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	Monthly
	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	Hourly
	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	Standby
A-6
RANGE 79	STEP A 82896 6908 39.70 2.78	STEP B 84984 7082 40.70 2.85	STEP C 87096 7258 41.71 2.92	STEP D 89280 7440 42.76 2.99	STEP E 91524 7627 43.83 3.07	STEP F 93816 7818 44.93 3.15	STEP G 96144 8012 46.05 3.22	STEP H 98580 8215 47.21 3.30 ■	STEP 1 101004 8417 48.37 3.39	STEP J 103524 8627 49.58 3.47	STEP K 106128 8844 50.83 3.56	STEP L 108792 9066 52.10 3.65	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	Annual
80	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	Monthly
	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	Hourly
	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	Standby
	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	Annual
81	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	Monthly
	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	Hourly
	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	Standby
	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	Annual
82	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	Monthly
	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	Hourly
	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	Standby
	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	Annual
83	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	Monthly
	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	Hourly
	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	Standby
	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	Annual
84	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	Monthly
	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	Hourly
	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	Standby
	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	Annual
85	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	Monthly
	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	Hourly
	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	Standby
	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	Annual
86	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	Monthly
	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	Hourly
	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	Standby
	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	Annual
87	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	Monthly
	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	Hourly
	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	Standby
	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	Annual
88	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	Monthly
	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	Hourly
	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	Standby
	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	Annual
89	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	Monthly
	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	Hourly
	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	Standby
A-7
RANGE 90	STEP A 108792 9066 52.10 3.65	STEP B 111468 9289 53.39 3.74	STEP C 114252 9521 54.72 3.83	STEP D 117132 9761 56.10 3.93	STEP E 120048 10004 57.49 4.02	STEP F 123036 10253 58.93 4.13	STEP G 126156 10513 60.42 4.23	STEP H 129252 10771 61.90 4.33	STEP I 132528 11044 63.47 4.44	STEP J 135864 11322 65.07 4.55	STEP K 139248 11604 66.69 4.67	STEP L 142752 11896 68.37 4.79	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	Annual
91	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	Monthly
	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	Hourly
	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	Standby
	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	Annual
92	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	Monthly
	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	Hourly
	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	Standby
	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	Annual
93	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	Monthly
	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	Hourly
	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	Standby
	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	Annual
94	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	Monthly
	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	Hourly
	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	Standby
	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	161472	Annual
95	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	13456	Monthly
	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	77.33	Hourly
	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	5.41	Standby
	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	161472	165528	Annual
96	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	13456	13794	Monthly
	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	77.33	79.28	Hourly
	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	5.41	5.55	Standby
	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	161472	165528	169680	Annual
97	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	13456	13794	14140	Monthly
	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	77.33	79.28	81.26	Hourly
	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	5.41	5.55	5.69	Standby
	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	161472	165528	169680	173928	Annual
98	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	13456	13794	14140	14494	Monthly
	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	77.33	79.28	81.26	83.30	Hourly
	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	5.41	5.55	5.69	5.83	Standby
	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	161472	165528	169680	173928	178272	Annual
99	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	13456	13794	14140	14494	14856	Monthly
	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	77.33	79.28	81.26	83.30	85.38	Hourly
	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	5.41	5.55	5.69	5.83	5.98	Standby
A-8
Compensation Appendix B L Range Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2009 thru June 30, 2011
L	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
RANGE	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	23700	24192	24816	25932	26544	27192	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	Annual
29L	1975	2016	2068	2161	2212	2266	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	Monthly
	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	Hourly
A-9
Appendix C 41.80.20(3)
1.	The Employer will determine when a position will be filled, the type of appointment to be used when filling the position, and the skills and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the specific position within a job classification that is being filled. Only those candidates who have the position-specific skills and abilities required to perform the duties of the vacant position will be referred for further consideration by the employing agency.
2.	An agency’s internal layoff list will consist of employees who have elected to place their name on the layoff list through Article 27 of this Agreement and are confined to each individual agency.
3.	The statewide layoff list will consist of employees who have elected to place their name on the statewide layoff list in accordance with WAC 357-46-080.
4.	A promotional candidate is defined as an employee who has completed the probationary period within a permanent appointment and has attained permanent status within the agency.
5.	A transfer candidate is defined as an employee in permanent status in the same classification as the vacancy within the agency.
6.	A voluntary demotion candidate is defined as an employee in permanent status moving to a class in a lower salary range maximum, within the agency.
7.	When filling a vacant position with a permanent appointment, candidates will be certified for further consideration in the following manner:
A.	The most senior candidate on the agency’s internal layoff list with the required skills and abilities who has indicated an appropriate geographic availability will be appointed to the position.
B.	If there are no names on the internal layoff list, the agency will certify up to twenty (20) candidates for further consideration. Up to seventy -five percent (75%) of those candidates will be statewide layoff, agency promotional, internal transfers, and agency voluntary demotions. All candidates certified must have the position specific skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position to be filled. If there is a tie for the last position on the certification for either promotional or other candidates, the agency may consider up to ten (10) additional tied candidates. The agency may supplement the certification with additional tied candidates and replace other candidates who waive consideration with like candidates from the original pool.
A-10
C.	Employees in the General Government Transition Pool Program who have the skills and abilities to perform the duties of the vacant position may be considered along with all other candidates who have the skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position.
D.	If the certified candidate pool does not contain at least three (3) affirmative action candidates, the agency may add up to three (3) affirmative action candidates to the names certified for the position:
E.	When recruiting for multiple positions, the agency may add an additional five (5) agency candidates and five (5) other candidates to the certified list for each additional position.
A-l 1
Attachment A
Store Market Areas
No. Store Name
No. Store Name
Market Area 1 40	Spokane-Garland Avenue 51	Spokane-Hillyard 65	Spokane-Third Avenue 117	Spokane-Indian Trail 178	Spokane-North 181	Spokane-Manito Center 185	Spokane-Division 186	Spokane-Wellesley	Market Area 9 11	Olympia 110	Lacey 124 Tumwater 163	Olympia-West 190	Hawk’s Prairie
	Market Area 10 95	Bainbridge Island 145	Poulsbo Village
Market Area 2 44	Spokane-West Sprague 56	Spokane-Valley 167	Spokane-University	City	Market Area 11 58	Bremerton-West 90	Port Orchard 126 Bremerton-Redwood Plaza 129	Silverdale 162	Belfair
Market Area 3 12	Wenatchee 137	East Wenatchee	
	Market Area 12 23	Puyallup-Willow	Shopping	Ctr 29	Puyallup 60	Bonney Lake 139	Sumner 154	Puyallup-Summit Canyon 189	Puyallup-S Meridian
Market Area 4 7	Yakima-North 94	Yakima-West 165	Yakima-South	
Market Area 5 35	Pasco 67	Richland-Downtown 159	Kennewick-Columbia Summit 171	Kennewick-Highlands	
	Market Area 13 63	Tacoma-Westgate 84	Tacoma-Portland Avenue 92	Tacoma-Evergreen Plaza 11 103	University Place 105	Tacoma-6th and Pine 122	Tacoma-72nd and Pacific 161	Tacoma-3 8th
Market Area 6 10	Vancouver-Downtown 106	Vancouver-4th Plain 108	Vancouver-Hazel Dell 168	Vancouver-Southeast 173	Vancouver-East 177	Vancou ver-Orchards 188	Vancouver	
	Market Area 14 64	Tacoma-Brookdale 68	Lakewood 132 Lakewood-Oakbrook Plaza
Market Area 7 13	Longview 148	Longview-West	
	Market Area 15 52	Edgewood 111	Fife 112	Federal Way 156	Federal Way-Twin	Lakes 170	Des Moines-Redondo	Square
Market Area 8 16	Centralia 26	Chehalis	
A-12
No. Store Name
No. Store Name
Market Area 16 34	Auburn 66	Kent-Panther Lake 76	Kent-West Kent 82	Kent-Midway Crossing 102	Kent-East 160	Kent-Covington 176	Auburn-North	Market Area 22 25	Renton-Downtown 81	Renton-Highlands 114	Newcastle 118	Seattle-Rainier Beach 158	Renton-Fairwood
	Market Area 23 43	Seattle-West Seattle 53	Seattle-White Center 86	Seatac 104	Seattle-West	Seattle 107	Seattle-Blvd	Park 157	Burien
Market Area 17 20	Woodinville 33	Redmond 57	Kirkland 61	Bothell 79	Mill Creek 87	Bothell-Thrasher’s Corner 93	Kenmore 155 Kirkland-Juanita Firs	
	Market Area 24 62	Edmonds 74	Lynnwood-East 78	Shoreline 97	Shoreline 128	Shoreline-Ballinger Vill 191 144	Lynnwood-West
Market Area 18 72	Mercer Island 85	Bellevue-Kelsey Creek 98	Bellevue-Downtown 115	Bellevue-Eastgate 120	Bellevue-Overlake 131	Bellevue-Northtowne	
	Market Area 25 37	Arlington 172	Arlington-Smokey	Point 175	Stanwood
Market Area 19 14	Port Angeles 135	Sequim	
	Market Area 26 73	Mountlake Terrace 75	Everett-Evergreen Way 116	Everett-Silverlake 125	Everett-Broadway Ave 127	Everett-Everett Mall 6	Marysville 138	Snohomish 141	Lake Stevens 193	Everett-Downtown
Market Area 20 99	Issaquah 119 Sammamish 179	North Bend	
Market Area 21 2	Seattle-2nd and Seneca 28	Seattle-12th and East Pine 42	Seattle-Broadway 46	Seattle-6th and Lenora 77	Seattle-Queen Anne 83	Seattie-Magnolia 101	Seattle-4th Ave South 182	Seattle-East Union	
	Market Area 27 18	Mount Vernon 142	Sedro Wooley 152	Burlington
A-13
No. Store Name
No, Store Name
Market Area 28 48	Bellingham-South 123	Bellingham-North 130	Bellingham-Lakeway Center 140	Bellingham-Barkley 153	Fernadale	No Market Area Assigned 8	Aberdeen 19	Clarkston 21	Ellensburg 24	Anacortes 30	Shelton 31	Port Townsend 32	Enumclaw 39	Colville 49	Pullman 70	Moses Lake 80	Monroe 134	Oak Harbor 147	Chelan 150	Gig Harbor 151	Ocean Shores 164	Walla Walla-East 169	Friday Harbor 174	Vashon
Market Area 29 45	Seattle-Wallingford 47	Seattle-Greenwood 69	Seattle-Northgate 96	Seattie-University Vill 136	Seattle-Crown Hill 187	Ballard	
A-14
Letter of Understanding No. 1
The Legislature decided to maintain and expand the Sunday Sales program, therefore, it is the intent of the Parties that the following modifications to this collective bargaining agreement will be applicable to employees who work or are assigned to work in state-run liquor stores selected to participate in the Sunday Sales program.
Article 4.3 G Sunday Off
All employees as referenced in 4.1 A & B will be allowed one (1) Sunday off every month, however, if this would result in the Assistant Manager not receiving the five (5) longest shifts, an exception to scheduling must be filed prior to scheduling.
Article 4.3 I Days Off
All employees, as referenced in Subsection 4.1.A and 4.1.B above will have two (2) days off. If one of these days is a Sunday, the other day off will be either a Saturday or Monday as determined by the needs of the store. If, for any reason, an employee does not work on a least one Sunday per month, this LOU provision will not apply. Such employee will be subject to the specific terms of Article 4.3.1 as described in the Master Agreement between the Parties.
Article 7.18 C Assignment Pay Provisions
In support of the Operational Expansion Program, employees assigned to work on a Sunday at a selected store will receive an additional one-forth (1/4) pay for all hours worked.
Article 7.18 D Sunday Rate
Employees who are assigned to work on a Sunday, as a result of the Sunday Sales program, will be paid at a rate of one and one-forth (1/4) of an employee’s regular rate of pay for all hours worked.
This letter of understanding will remain in full force and effect during the term of this collective bargaining agreement or until the legislature decides to modify or abolish this program.
/s/ /s/
On behalf of UFC W	On behalf of Employer
Chuck Ardingo, Negotiator	John Dryer, Chief Negotiator
Date:	8/27/08	Date:	8/27/08 ■
A-15
THE PARTIES, BY THEIR SIGNATURES BELOW, ACCEPT AND AGREE TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT.
Executed this 1st day of July, 2009.
For the United Food and Commercial Workers, Local 21:
___________________/s/
David Schmitz President
__________________/s/
Chuck Ardingo Negotiator
For the State of Washington:
__________________/s/
Christine O. Gregoire
Governor
_________________/s/________ John Dryer, Chief Negotiator OFM Labor Relations Office