TRIPLICATE
ORIGINAL
mMoisq
CONTRACT
By and Between
PIERCE COUNTY
And
TEAMSTERS, CHAUFFEURS, WAREHOUSEMEN AND
HELPERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 313
2009-2011
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 1 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE PAGE
ARTICLE 1		:..........................................3
ARTICLE 2	- NONDISCRIMINATION ..........................3
ARTICLE 3	- RECOGNITION AND UNION SECURITY .............3
ARTICLE 4	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ..........................5
ARTICLE 5	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME .................6
ARTICLE 6-WAGES ........................................7
ARTICLE 7 - SENIORITY..................................10
ARTICLE 8-VACATIONS ................................   13
ARTICLE 9	- HOLIDAYS ................................  14
ARTICLE 10	- SICK LEAVE ...............................15
ARTICLE 11	- COMPENSATED LEAVES OF ABSENCE ............18
ARTICLE 12	- UNPAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE..................19
ARTICLE 13	- GROUP INSURANCE: MEDICAL/DENTAL/LIFE......20
ARTICLE 14	- RETIREMENT .............................. 21
ARTICLE 15	- WORKERS COMPENSATION......................21
ARTICLE 16	- GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE ......22
ARTICLE 17	- NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT..................  24
ARTICLE 18	- SAVINGS ..................................24
ARTICLE 19	- SUBCONTRACTING ...........................24
ARTICLE 20	- EMPLOYEE RIGHTS ........................  24
ARTICLE 21	- SAFETY AND SANITATION.....................25
ARTICLE 22	- MATTERS COVERED AND COMPLETE AGREEMENT......25
ARTICLE 23	- TERM OF AGREEMENT.........................25
APPENDIX A	- REPRESENTED CLASSIFICATIONS...............27
APPENDIX B	- EQUIPMENT OPERATION CLASS LEVEL ..........28
APPENDIX B.l	- Maintenance Worker.................28
APPENDIX B.2	— Maintenance Technician ..........  30
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 2 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
CONTRACT By and Between PIERCE COUNTY And TEAMSTERS, CHAUFFEURS, WAREHOUSEMEN AND HELPERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 313 2009-2011
ARTICLE 1
This Agreement is made and entered into by and between Pierce County for its operations listed below, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer", and Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers Union, Local No. 313, hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
ARTICLE 2	- NONDISCRIMINATION
Neither the Employer, Union nor any employee shall in any manner whatsoever discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race; color; religion; creed; sex; marital status; national origin; age; or sensory, mental or physical handicaps or disabilities.
ARTICLE 3	- RECOGNITION AND UNION SECURITY
Secti	on 3.1 The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for its employees employed in the following operations: Roads, Traffic, Water Programs and Facilities in the job classifications listed in Appendix A, but excluding those employees represented by other labor organizations, supervisors, guards, confidential employees, and all others.
Secti	on 3.2
3.2.1	- Union Security. All employees in the bargaining unit who are members of the Union shall, as a condition of employment, remain members of the Union in good standing for the duration of this Agreement. All other employees, shall, as a condition of employment, within thirty (30) days of employment or the effective date of this Agreement, become and remain members of the Union in good standing for the duration of this Agreement, except as provided in subsection 3.2.2 of this Article.
"Good standing", as used in this Article 3, shall mean that the employee has paid timely or offered to pay the uniform initiation fees and regular monthly dues uniformly required for membership in the Union.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 3 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
The dismissal of any employees for failure to comply with the provisions of this Article shall be on written notice from the Union to the Employer and employees, setting forth the reason for the delinquent status and allowing thirty (30) calendar days from receipt of notice to bring their membership into good standing.
3.2.2	Any employee who, pursuant to RCW 41.56.122, asserts the right of non-association based on bona-fide religious tenet(s), maybe excluded from the terms of subsection 3.2.1 of this Article; however, such employees shall pay an amount equal to the regular Union dues and initiation fee to a non-religious charity or other charitable organization mutually agreed upon by the public employee affected and the bargaining representative to which such public employee would otherwise pay dues and initiation fees. The public employee shall furnish proof to the Union each month that such payment has been made to the agreed upon charitable organization.
Section 3.3 The County agrees that upon written authorization of any employee who is a member of a bargaining unit, the County shall deduct from the pay of said employee the monthly amount of dues, and only dues, as certified by the Secretary of the bargaining unit. If the employee wishes to cancel the written authorization for dues deduction, he/she must notify the County and Union in writing, at which time the County will discontinue the deduction.
Section 3.4 The Union shall indemnify the County from and against any and all claims, demands, suits, or other fonn of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the County for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of Sections 3.2 and 3.3.
Section 3.5 An authorized officer of the Union shall have access to the Employer's operations at reasonable times for the purpose of investigation of grievances, adjusting disputes and ascertaining that the Agreement is being adhered to, provided that such visit shall not interfere with the work process or cause undue interruption of the employees’ work schedule. There shall be no more than one (1) shop steward for each bargaining unit except where operations are physically separated as mutually agreed to between the Union Business Representative and the Human Resources Director. The Union and the County understand the benefits of having employees at the bargaining table during collective bargaining for a successor agreement. To that end the parties agree that the issue of compensation for such employees, who participate in negotiations, when those negotiations occur during their regularly scheduled hours, will be bargained at the first session of such negotiations.
Section 3.6 The County's Charter shall prevail provided a Charter amendment may not amend a provision of the existing Agreement during its term. However, if provisions contained in this Agreement relating to wages, hours and working conditions are in conflict with County ordinances pertaining thereto, the terms of the agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.7 The bargaining unit status of new positions instituted by the Employer shall be made after taking into consideration the following elements of the job: the community of interests, similarities of duties, required skills, interchange, working conditions and organization level of the positions contained in
2008-313con.doc	Exhibit "A"
Page 4 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
Appendix "A" as provided by R.C.W. 41.56.060. Any dispute in applying this Section may be resolved in accordance with the applicable law, R.C.W. 41.56.060. The grievance procedure shall not apply in issues pertaining to this Section.
ARTICLE 4	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 4.1 The Employer retains and reserves all powers and authority to manage its operations in an effective manner with the sole and unquestioned right and prerogative in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and the Pierce County Charter, subject only to the limitations expressly stated in this Agreement:
1)	To plan, direct, control and determine all the operations and services of the Employer;
2)	To supervise, transfer, and direct the workforce, to establish the qualifications for employment and to employ employees;
3)	To schedule and assign work;
4)	To establish work and performance standards (Pierce County Public Works Road Department Maintenance Standards) and, from time to time, to change those standards;
5)	To assign overtime;
6)	To determine the methods, means, organization and number of personnel by which such operations and services shall be made, purchased, or to subcontract work;
7)	To make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations;
8)	To discipline, suspend and discharge employees for cause. Employees in their initial probationary period are considered “at-will” employees and may be terminated for any reason not expressly prohibited by law. (Probationary employees have recourse to Steps 1, 2, and 3 only of the grievance process); and
9)	To change or eliminate existing methods, equipment or facilities.
Section 4.2 The County has the right at any time to require an employee to provide evidence of a valid driver’s license if such is required by the classification or if the employee has or will at any time drive a County vehicle. Such requirement may include having the employee sign a release of driving record; payment of fee is to be paid by the employer. Any employee who operates a County vehicle must immediately (no later than the next business day) notify his/her immediate supervisor if the employee's driver's license, including CDL and/or any job-related endorsements, is suspended, revoked or otherwise becomes invalid.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 5 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
Section 4.3 Both parties have agreed to use the labor-management forum to negotiate the specific language and protections of a reasonable suspicion drug and alcohol-testing program. If the parties cannot reach agreement and the County has met its obligation under RCW 41.56 and the parties have pursued resolution through the mediation process, the County may take whatever actions it deems appropriate consistent with labor law.
ARTICLE 5	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 5.1 The normal workweek for full-time employees shall be five (5) consecutive days Monday through Friday of eight (8) hours worked exclusive of the lunch period, unless the ten (10) hour optional work day is scheduled; provided further, there is no guaranteed workday of eight (8) hours in addition to call back (Section 6.8). For Gardeners, the normal workweek for full-time employees to be scheduled between Monday through and including Saturday, shall be five consecutive days of eight (8) hours worked exclusive of the lunch period, unless the ten (10) hour work day is scheduled; provided further, there is no guaranteed workday of eight (8) hours in addition to callback (if applicable). Work hours maybe changed with no less than twelve (12) hours posted notice.
Section 5.2 The Executive may provide schedules requiring a workweek of four (4), ten (10) hour days and in such event overtime at one and one-half (1-1/2) the employee's base pay shall be paid for hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours per scheduled workweek.
Section 5.3 Overtime is work performed beyond the normal eight (8) hours per day or optional ten (10) hour day or forty (40) hours per workweek of an employee as authorized by the Department Director or designee. Payment for such authorized overtime hours worked shall be at the rate of one and one half (1 -1 /2) the base hourly rate of pay. Should an employee be required to work on a Sunday, such time would be compensated at two (2) times the employee's base hourly rate of pay.
Section 5.4 Payment for authorized overtime hours worked shall be pay or compensatory time, as authorized by the Department Director or designee at the time earned. Compensatory time accumulated shall not exceed ten (10) working days at any time.
Section 5.5 No pyramiding or double application of Sections and/or Articles. Compensation shall not be paid more than once for the same hours under any provision or Section of this Article or Agreement, unless expressly stated in each Section or Article.
Section 5.6 Shift Differential Shift differential of sixty ($.60) cents per hour shall be paid for the entire shift when employees are required to work shifts extending beyond 6:00 p.m. or starting before 6:00 a.m. providing that shift differential shall not be paid for any hours for which overtime compensation is paid. Further, shift differential shall not be paid to any employee who is receiving out of class pay in a position which is not eligible to receive shift differential. NOTE: When an employee is assigned to a 4-10 work
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 6 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
schedule, the shift differential shall apply to assigned work shifts extending beyond 5:00 p.m. or starting before 5:00 a.m.
ARTICLE 6	- WAGES
Section 6.1	- Wages.
6.1.1	- 2009. Effective January 1, 2009, the job classification listed in Appendix A of this collective bargaining agreement shall be granted a 5.22% wage adjustment effective January 1, 2009.
6.1.2	- 2010. Employees shall be granted a wage adjustment equal to 90% of the bi-monthly Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton CPI-U increase reported in July 2009 (for information from June 2009 compared to the 12 months beginning June 2008), but not less than 2.5% nor greater than 5.5%, effective January 1, 2010.
6.1.3	- 2011. Employees shall be granted a wage adjustment equal to 90% of the bi-monthly Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton CPI-U increase reported in July 2010 (for information from June 2010 compared to the 12 months beginning June 2009), but not less than 2.5% nor greater than 5.5%, effective January 1, 2011.
Section 6.1.4- Y-Rate. Employees shown in the Pay and Class Plan as “Y-rate” shall receive no cost of living adjustment (in Section 6.1 above). At such time as the top pay rate of their classification meets or exceeds their “Y-rate, the employee shall be placed at the appropriate step and shall again be eligible for cost of living adjustments. Those employees shown in the Pay and Class Plan as “Y-rate” prior to January 1, 2009 shall receive one-half (1/2) of the percentage adjustment granted above.
Section 6.2	- Longevity. Employees who currently qualify for participation in the longevity program will continue to participate and progress in accordance with the current percentage factors for continuous years of employment. This section is an exception to Section 5.5 (No Pyramiding). New employees hired after December 1, 1982, shall not be eligible or participate in the longevity program.
The longevity program for employees who currently qualify is as follows:
2% when the employee completes the fourth (4th) year of continuous County employment.
4% when the employee completes the ninth (9th) year of continuous County employment.
6% when the employee completes the fourteenth (14th) year of continuous County employment.
8% when the employee completes the nineteenth (19th) year of continuous County employment.
Exhibit "A"
Page 7 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
2008-313con.doc
Section 6.3 - Eyeglasses. The Employer will replace employees' eyeglasses and frames that have been damaged by welding sparks during the course of their employment as determined by the Department Director or his designee.
Section 6.4 Personnel working as Gardeners, in Road Maintenance and at Water Programs will be furnished six pairs of quality work gloves annually. Additionally, Water Programs will be provided overalls as determined by the Department Director or designee.
Personnel working in Road Maintenance, Traffic and Facilities in the classifications of Maintenance Worker, Maintenance Technician, Gardener and Traffic Sign Technician will be provided a lump sum of $160 annually (subject to legally required deductions) to allow employees to purchase their own clothing and equipment for use while working. Such lump sum will be paid once per year in the second pay cycle ending in September to all current and continuing employees in the classifications listed above who have completed their initial probation as of September 1 of each year. There will be no pro-rata payments.
Section 6.5 - Mileage. Employees who are authorized to use their private vehicles for County business or in the performance of their official duties shall receive reimbursement at the rate permitted by the IRS for actual miles of necessary travel. In no event will reimbursement for miles driven exceed an amount equal to the round trip coach airfare of a common carrier. Mileage reimbursement shall not be paid for miles driven from the employee's usual place of residence and work location.
Section 6.6 - Assigned Vehicles. Personal assignment of a County vehicle shall be at the discretion of the County Executive. The Executive will establish administrative rules and regulations on vehicle use and assignment.
Section 6.7 - On Call - Traffic Sign Only. A voluntary sign up sheet for on call time will be posted each year. On call weeks will be assigned equally from the pool of employees who have signed said document. All employees participating in the on call program will be paid two dollars seventy-five cents ($2.75) per hour compensation effective 1/1/2006 and two dollars eighty cents ($2.80) per hour compensation effective 1/1/2007 for such assigned on call hours (or a rate corresponding to the rate paid to Traffic Signal Technicians). Employees on-call shall be free from the effect of alcohol and/or any controlled substance and in communications via pager, radio or telephone and so immediately available.
Nothing in this clause shall be construed as preventing employees from trading assignments once they are made, provided the supervisor is notified in advance of the week in question.
In the event not enough volunteers are available, management retains the right to assign employees by reverse order of seniority. Employees assigned to on call shall be allowed the use of a County vehicle for official use while on duty. Assigned vehicles may be used for limited personal use subject to guidelines established by the County.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 8 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
If called out while on call to perform work outside the normal work hours, the on call employee's work time shall be compensated as overtime as provided for in Section 5.3.
Section 6.8 - Callback. This Section shall not apply to employees on call. If called back to perform work outside the normal work hours, employees who are not on call shall be compensated at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their basic rate of pay with a four (4) hour minimum. If two or more callbacks are within the four (4) hour minimum, only four (4) hours shall apply. If called to perform work less than four (4) hours prior to the normal starting time, the employee shall be compensated for hours worked at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their basic rate of pay. Employees continuing working past the normal quitting time of the scheduled eight (8) hour day shall be compensated for the actual hours worked at the overtime rate. Should an employee be called back two (2) or more times not in the four (4) hour minimum period, a minimum of eight (8) hours will be paid. Callback time starts at the time employees are dispatched outside of their regular working hours and after having left the work-site at the end of the shift, but in no case will the start time be longer than thirty (30) minutes from the time the employee is called until the employee starts work. Callback shall apply only to employees called to return to work after leaving the workplace at the end of a shift and before the start of their next scheduled shift. Callback shall not apply to extensions of work-shift beyond the scheduled ending time.
Callback for work which requires the use of equipment listed in Appendix B.2 shall first be offered to Maintenance Technician employees unless no such employees are available at which time a Maintenance Worker employee shall be called. Callback work for work not requiring equipment operation or requiring operation of equipment listed on Appendix B.l shall be first offered to Maintenance Worker employees unless such employees are not available.
Section 6.9 - Pay Period. The pay period shall be every two (2) weeks commencing at 12:01 a.m. on Monday and ending at midnight the following Sunday. The Employer will make available bi-weekly checks by 12:00 p.m. on the Friday next following the close of the pay period whenever possible. If a payday falls on a holiday, the payday shall be the preceding day. If the preceding day is also a holiday, the payday shall be the preceding day.
Section 6.10 - Lead-Worker Pay, The employer shall temporarily assign one person as a Maintenance Technician Lead (MT Lead) during the operation of the seal coat (chip seal) project, the chip sealing intersection crew, the overhead brushing with boom truck (Function Code 71C), the crack sealing crew, the paint striping crew and for other projects the employer determines to be of sufficient scope to assign an onsite person the responsibility to ensure the project is completed efficiently and on time. The employer shall appoint the MT Lead based on leadership ability and knowledge of work to be performed. MT Lead assignments may be rotated to provide leadership experience at the employer's discretion.
ARTICLE 7 - SENIORITY
Section 7.1	- Seniority, Except as provided in Section 7.2, seniority is the amount of continuous service in the bargaining unit. If seniority is equal, seniority shall next be determined based on the amount of
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 9 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
continuous service in a regular hire status within all operations of County government, but shall not be established until completion of the probationary period. If seniority continues to be equal, seniority shall be determined by drawing lot. An employee may be disciplined and/or discharged during the probationary period with recourse to Steps 1,2, and 3 only of the grievance procedure contained herein. An employee shall lose seniority under this Agreement for the following reasons:
a.	Retirement,
b.	Voluntary termination,
c.	Discharge for cause,
d.	Failure to return to work after	offer of recall	is made,
e.	Failure to return to work promptly after an	authorized leave of absence,
f.	Absence from work, including layoff, for a period in excess of twelve 12 consecutive months, and
g.	Absence without approval beyond three (3) working days.
The period of layoff or unpaid leave of absence will not count toward the computation of the amount of "continuous time in service."
7.1.1	- Seniority List. Beginning not later than January, 1990, and continuing each January thereafter, the Personnel Department shall publish a seniority list for purposes in accordance with Article 7, Section 7.1 and Section 7.8.
Section 7.2	- State or Federal Funds. County employees whose positions are funded by state or federal funds shall be accorded seniority in accordance with this Article unless otherwise specified by the provisions of a specific program.
Section 7.3	- Project/Grant Employees. Employees hired to perform tasks as a part of a limited term special project or utilizing limited term grant funding shall not be eligible to "bump" or displace a bargaining unit employee not a part of the project or grant. Such employees shall not be subject to bumping by bargaining unit employees who are not a part of the project or grant. Employees hired as apart of the limited term project or grant shall be so notified in writing at the time of hire.
Section 7.4	- Reduction in Force. When the Employer determines it is necessary to reduce the work force in classifications within a bargaining unit, regular full-time employees will be laid off based upon experience, skill, ability and qualifications to do the work without retraining, provided employees with the least seniority will be laid off first when the above are equal. No regular full-time employee shall be laid
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 10 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
off or demoted while there are temporary or probationary employees serving in the same classification in the same bargaining unit, provided he/she is fully qualified to do the remaining work required to be performed as determined by the Employer. Employees being laid off shall keep the Employer's Human Resources Department informed of their current address and telephone number.
7.4.1	Notice. Employees being laid off shall be given two (2) weeks' notice of layoff. Such two (2) week notice shall not be required in programs where funds are discontinued by state or federal agencies without adequate notice to the Employer.
7.4.2	Bumping. Bumping rights shall only apply in the employee's present classification and lower classifications in the same series for which the employee is qualified in the bargaining unit, provided employees promoted to classifications in other bargaining units shall retain bumping rights back to previously held classifications based only upon prior seniority in this bargaining unit.
7.4.3	Recall within Bargaining Unit. Employees laid off will be placed on a recall register for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months from the date of layoff. Employees laid off will be recalled and re-employed in the inverse order of layoff. An employee, who declines a recall offer to a position of comparable hours or fails to respond to a recall offer by the County within seven (7) business days, shall be removed from the recall register. Such recalled employees shall return with County seniority for the purpose of computing wage and fringe benefits, except the period of layoff shall not be counted.
Section 7.5	- Referral to Other Departments. Employees laid off by the Employer who are desirous of reemployment in other operations of the County while on layoff from the bargaining unit under this agreement shall notify the Employer's Human Resources Department and shall complete a layoff personnel form as lateral or lower level positions open for which they are potentially qualified. If qualified, such employees will be referred for consideration prior to hiring new employees. Employees hired in a different department or new classification series in the same department will be subject to a new probationary period.
Section 7.6	Promotions. Promotions to higher job classifications covered by this Agreement shall be in accordance with Administrative Guidelines for the Career Service.
Section 7.7 Pay for Work Performed in Higher Classification. When an employee is required to perform work in a higher job classification for a full hour or more in a normal workday, the employee shall be paid the rate of pay for such hours of work performed in the classification. The assignment for work out of class shall be by seniority and location (shop) provided the employee has the ability to perform the higher level work. Compensation for work out of class shall not result in any rights to a permanent classification. Employees who are being trained in the operation of vehicles, equipment or other duties of another classification shall not be eligible to receive compensation for working out-of-class. However, employee’s independently operating vehicles and equipment not as part of training or performing the duties of a higher classification shall receive out-of-class pay. Employees working in a higher classification shall not receive
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 11 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
overtime pay or other benefits above the base pay of the higher classification unless such classification is eligible to receive such pay or benefit.
Section 7.8 Training for Higher Classifications. Insofar as practical, training for Maintenance Office Manager, Supervisor, Maintenance Technician and Equipment Operator shall be offered to employees based on skill, seniority, knowledge, experience and ability to do the job, as determined by the employer. If all of the above are equal, seniority shall prevail.
Section 7,9 Work Assignment. Supervisors shall consider knowledge, experience, ability and seniority in determining CDL work assignment. Whenever reasonably possible, supervisors will post weekly work schedules for employee review prior to the beginning of the work week.
Notwithstanding the above, nothing in this agreement limits or restricts the County in making assignments it deems necessary to address equipment breakdowns, inclement weather, training requirements, project delays, unforeseen sick or vacation needs or other factors that may require adjustments.
Section 7.10 Personnel File. Employees shall have the right to review their personnel file on break time, lunch time, or leave status, and request amendments of any statements in their file. If amendment is refused, the employee shall be entitled to file a rebuttal statement in their file. Employee evaluations and letters of reprimand are subject only to Steps 1,2 and 3 of the grievance procedures contained herein. All performance evaluations shall be shown to the employees (and counter-signed by the employees to indicate compliance with this Section) before being included in their personnel file. An employee's signature does not necessarily indicate agreement.
Section 7.11 Labor-Management. There shall be established a Road Maintenance Labor-Management Committee comprised of a given number of representatives appointed by the Employer and an equal number of Shop Stewards from the Road Maintenance Department appointed by the Union. The Road Maintenance Labor-Management Committee shall meet periodically at dates and times mutually agreed upon by the Union and the Employer to resolve any dispute(s) that may arise regarding the administration of the work assignment provisions of Article 7 of this Contract. Meetings of the Road Maintenance Labor-Management Committee shall be held during regular working hours. The Union’s Secretary-Treasurer and/or Business Representative may attend meetings of the Road Maintenance Labor-Management Committee.
ARTICLE 8 - VACATIONS
Section 8.1 Accruals.
8.1.1	Regular full-time employees hired on or after January 1, 1983, shall be granted vacation benefits in accordance with the following schedule as of anniversary dates falling on or after the dates indicated, provided they are compensated at least seventy percent (70%) of their standard work hours per pay cycle (note: one (1) day equals eight (8) hours):
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 12 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
During the Applicable Continuous Accruable Year of Employment
1 st through 3rd year 4th through 7th year
8 th through 13 th year 14th through 18 th year
Paid Vacation Days
12 days 16 days 20 days 23 days
An additional day a year to a maximum of thirty (30) days per year.
8.1.2 Effective January 1, 1982, employees who have earned and qualified for vacation leave that exceeds thirty (30) days per year shall maintain the number of vacation days earned as of January 1, 1982. All other employees who are not qualified for thirty (30) days as of January 1, 1983, shall maintain the number of vacation days earned as of J anuary 1,1983, then earn an additional day of vacation at the completion of every other year to a maximum of thirty (30) days per year or until they are entitled to additional vacation day accrual as set forth in the schedule in Section 8.1.1. (Note: One (1) vacation day equals eight (8) hours.)
Section 8.2 Part-Time Accrual. Part-time employees regularly scheduled to work one-half a normal workweek or more shall be entitled to a pro rata portion of vacation benefits based on hours compensated, exclusive of overtime pay, provided they are compensated at least seventy percent (70%) of their standard work hours.
Section 8.3 New eligible employees shall earn vacation leave at the same rate as other eligible employees, but their vacation leave shall not be granted or accrued until they have completed thirteen (13) accruable pay cycles of employment. New employees terminating before they have completed thirteen (13) accruable pay cycles shall not be eligible for payment for accrued vacation leave upon such termination.
Section 8.4 Eligible employees who have completed thirteen (13) accruable pay cycles shall be paid for unused accrued vacation leave days upon termination of employment.
Section 8.5 Carry Over. Eligible employees may carry over a maximum balance of vacation leave of forty-five (45) days per year from one calendar year into the next calendar year. However, upon retirement or separation from County service, employees shall be paid for a maximum of sixty (60) days accumulated annual leave.
Section 8.6 It is the intent that employee's take their accrued vacation leave during the calendar year earned, provided employees may carry over accrued vacation subject to 8.5. Employees who are unable to take accrued vacation leave for which they are eligible within the year due to work-incurred disability or work requirements as determined by the Department Head or designee that cannot be carried over as
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 13 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
provided in 8.5 of this Article, shall, upon approval of the Human Resources Director, be allowed to carry over additional vacation leave provided it is used within the next six (6) months and may not be cashed out in a lump sum payment due to termination.
ARTICLE 9	- HOLIDAYS
Section 9.1	Regular full-time employees shall be granted the following holidays off with pay.
New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King Day
President’s Day
Memorial Day Independence Day
Two Personal Holidays
Labor Day
Veteran’s Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Christmas Day
The day of observance of the above holidays shall be days specified by County ordinance. If any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be the holiday. If the holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be the holiday. The employee must be on paid status on the normal workday preceding and following such holiday.
Section 9.2 Regular full-time and regular part-time employees shall receive two paid “personal” holidays. Paid personal holidays shall accrue on January 1 of each year and must be taken during the calendar year in which accrued or the days will lapse except when an employee has requested and been approved use of the personal holiday(s) and the approval is later cancelled by the County. In such instances, with the recommendation of the appointing authority, the Human Resources Director may authorize the personal holiday(s) to be used within the month of January during the following calendar year. A personal holiday(s) carried forward in such manner may not be compensated in any form upon the separation of
employment.
Regular full-time and regular part-time employees hired on January 1 or the first work day following January 1 shall accrue and be eligible to use paid personal holidays during that year. Employees hired after the first work day of the year shall not be eligible to accrue or use paid personal holidays during that year.
Section 9.3	Part-time employees regularly scheduled to work one half a normal work week or more shall be eligible for a pro-rata portion of holiday pay based on their standard hours per week divided by five, provided they are compensated at least seventy (70) percent of their standard work week.
Section 9.4	Regularly scheduled full-time and part-time employees who work on the observed holiday shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 -1/2) of the straight time hourly rate of pay, plus holiday pay at straight time.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 14 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
ARTICLE 10	- SICK LEAVE
Section 10.1 Accrual. Regularly scheduled full-time employees shall earn sick leave on the basis of one day for each month compensated, excluding overtime and standby pay with no upper limit. Part-time employees regularly scheduled to work one half a normal workweek or more shall earn a pro-rata portion of sick leave based on hours compensated excluding overtime and standby pay, provided they are compensated at least seventy percent (70%) of their standard work hours per cycle. Sick leave shall be earned and accrued upon the completion of each accruable pay cycle. Sick leave will not be payable to new eligible employees until they have completed thirteen (13) accruable pay cycles of employment.
Section 10.2 Permissible Uses of Sick Leave.
10,2.1	Sick leave shall be paid at the employee's regular base hourly rate of pay for the employee’s own needs for the following conditions:
a.	Bonafide illness or injury which incapacitates the employee from performing nonnal duties,
or
b.	Employee’s disability due to pregnancy and recovery there from, or
c.	Medical or dental care of the employee.
10,2.2	Sick leave shall be paid at the employee’s regular straight time base hourly rate of pay for absences required due to bona fide illness or injury to those family members whose principal residence is with the employee. The relatives to whom this Section applies include mother, stepmother, father, stepfather, son, stepson, daughter, stepdaughter, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, husband, wife, grandparent, grandchild, foster child, children placed for adoption and like relatives of the employee's spouse. The employer may require a statement including the nature and severity of the illness or injury, relationship to the employee and a statement of need for care or attendance of the employee.
10.2.3	Family Care Leave: Sick leave or other paid leave as chosen by the employee shall be paid at the employee’s regular straight time base hourly rate of pay, subject to the provisions of this Section regarding sick leave and under the following conditions:
a.	Any health condition affecting a covered employee's child under the age of 18 years, or for-
a child age eighteen (18) or older and incapable of self-care, which requires treatment or supervision including:
1.	Medical conditions requiring medication which cannot be self administered;
2.	Medical or mental health conditions which would endanger the child's safety or
2008-313con.doc	Exhibit "A"
Page 15 of30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
recovery without the presence of a parent or guardian;
3.	Any condition warranting preventive health care such as physical, dental optical or
immunization services when a parent must be present to authorize;
4.	Any other circumstance which would constitute a permissible use of sick leave for the employee.
b.	A serious health condition or emergency condition of a spouse, parent, parent-in-law, grandparent of the employee, or child age eighteen (18) or older and incapable of self care, which requires the employee’s presence. Such leave shall only be approved for the duration of the condition.
Abuse and misuse of sick leave are grounds for disciplinary action up to and including discharge. The Employer has the right at any time to require the employee provide certification from a physician attesting to illness or injury.
Section 10.3 In order to qualify for sick leave pay, employee must report the reason for the absence no later than the beginning of the scheduled working day with notice as soon as feasible of the anticipated date of return to work. A physician's certification stating the kind and nature of an illness or injury and that the employee is incapacitated from work may be required for sick leave in excess of five (5) days. The physician's letter may be required to be updated every week in writing during an extended sick leave.
Section 10.4 In the instance where an illness or injury qualifies an employee for Workers' Compensation, the Employer will pay only the difference between the employee's base hourly wage and the amount paid the employee in Workers' Compensation benefits to the extent of accrued unused sick leave during such period of disability.
Section 10.5 Effective January 1, 1983, eligible employees who have completed thirteen (13) accruable pay cycles and who are separated from service due to death, retirement or disability shall be paid for unused accrued sick leave as follows:
1.	Twenty-five percent (25%) of the employee's base hourly rate of pay for the first seventy-five (75) days or less of unused accrued sick leave days.
2.	For the next seventy-five (75) days (seventy-six (76) through one hundred and fifty (150)), an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the employee's base hourly rate of pay for unused accrued sick leave days.
3.	For the next fifty (50) days (one hundred and fifty-one (151) through two hundred (200)), an amount equal to seventy-five percent (75%) of the employee's base hourly rate of pay for unused accrued sick leave days.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 16 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
In no event shall such compensation exceed two hundred (200) days.
Section 10.6 Eligible employees are considered to be retired for purposes of sick leave compensation and early retirement for medical insurance when they have met the required qualifications for service retirement under their State of Washington Retirement System and have elected to receive either a lump-sum payment in lieu of retirement or have elected to receive a service or disability retirement benefit.
Section 10.7 An eligible employee separated from employment in good standing for reasons other than death, retirement, or disability shall be compensated at ten percent (10%) of the employee's base hourly rate of pay for unused accrued sick leave days to date of separation not to exceed two hundred (200) days.
Section 10.8 - Sick Leave Incentive Program. Effective January 1,2008, employees, including employees serving a probationary period for any part of the year, shall be awarded additional vacation leave as follows, whichever is more generous to the employee: If one day or less of sick leave is used in any calendar year, an employee will be awarded two additional days of vacation leave; if two days or less of sick leave is used in any calendar year, an employee will be awarded one additional day of vacation leave. This program shall be accomplished by the Budget and Finance Department, payroll section, as soon as practicable after the end of the calendar year. Only employees who have been in a pay status for the complete calendar year shall be eligible for this sick leave incentive program.
A complete calendar year shall begin on January 1 and end December 31, and shall include all regularly scheduled workdays for the employee (including observed holidays). In order to qualify as a complete calendar year, an employee must not have been in a leave of absence without pay status for two full work days or longer. New employees must begin work on the first work day in January, exclusive of January 1 (New Year’s Day) and up to the next two days if such comprise a "weekend" for the employee's work site, in order to be eligible to have been in a pay status for the complete calendar year.
Section 10.9 All references to “day” in this Article shall refer to tire employee’s standard hours per day (weekly hours divided by five), to a maximum of eight hours.
ARTICLE 11 - COMPENSATED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 11.1- Jury Duty. Time off with pay will be granted for jury duty to regular full-time and part-time employees. The employee shall be paid the difference between the fees received for such service, excluding travel fees, and the amount of actual base earnings lost by reason of such service. In order to be eligible for such payments, the employee must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of jury pay received. The employee must give the Employer prompt notice of the call for jury duty.
Section 11.2 - Bereavement Leave.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 17 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
foster parent, brother, sister, child, foster child, grandparent, or grandchild of the employee and like relatives of the spouse of the employee. Immediate family includes biological, adopted, step or foster members. An additional three days of bereavement leave may be granted if authorized by the Department Director or designee in writing, if the employee is required to travel out of state to attend the funeral or complete the burial arrangements.
11.2.2 Authorized use of the additional bereavement leave in Article 11.2.1 for out-of-state travel may be taken from either the employee's accrued sick leave balance or from the employee's accrued vacation leave balance, accrued compensatory time, or accrued birthday holiday at the employee's option. Additional sick leave may be used in conjunction with the death of an immediate family member if qualifying under current sick leave provisions.
Section 11.3 - Reserve Military Leaves. Such leave of absence shall be granted as provided in RCW 38.40.060, for periods of active duty and active training duty, including weekend drills, not exceeding a total of twenty-one (21) workdays during each year beginning October 1st and ending the following September 30th, provided the request for such leave is in writing and accompanied by a validated copy of military orders. Employees entering military service for more than twenty-one (21) days, who have requested leave as prescribed above, shall be granted leave as provided by applicable state and federal statutes. Such leave will be in addition to any vacation leave to which an employee might otherwise be entitled.
ARTICLE 12	- UNPAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 12.1 A leave of absence without pay may be granted after completion of one year of service and approval of the elected official, operations manager, or designee up to a maximum of thirty (30) days. Leaves of absence over thirty (30) days and upto one year may be granted with the approval of the elected official, operations manager or designee, plus the Human Resources operations manager or designee.
Section .12.2 All leaves without pay result in a loss of accrual for seniority, vacation, sick leave, and other benefits when an employee is in a non-pay status over thirty percent (30%) of any pay cycle. The employee has the option of paying his/her own medical benefit cost while in an unpaid leave status to insure continued coverage.
All leaves without pay are to be requested from the Employer in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the date such leave would commence unless an emergency situation precludes such notice. The written request for leave of absence by the employee shall state the following information:
a.
b.
c.
Reason for requesting the leave.
Date leave is tokbegin.
Date of return to work.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 18 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
Any employee failing to return from a leave of absence within the time interval approved will be subject to termination. In the event the employee is unable to return to work on the date specified due to verifiable illness or injury and has so advised the Employer prior to the ending date of the approved leave, the Employer will review the circumstances on an individual case basis upon verification by a physician of the illness or injury. Due to emergency situations, unpaid leaves of absence may be extended with approval of the Human Resources Director or designee.
Section 12,3 Leaves of absence without pay shall result in the discontinuance of benefits (accrual of sick leave, vacation, payment of insurance premiums, etc.) for the period of the leave and the employee's anniversary date will be adjusted accordingly. If an unpaid leave of absence is necessary for medical reasons caused by an on-the-job injury, the employer will pay the cost of medical benefits (Article 13) for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
Section 12.4 - Unpaid Leave for Maternity Reasons. Maternity leaves granted in compliance with WAC 162-30 for sickness or disability may extend up to sixty (60) days after the birth of the infant, and if for more than sixty (60) days, shall require filing a physician's certificate stating the need for additional leave due to said sickness or disability, unless the Department Director or his designee or elected official agrees in writing to a longer period of unpaid leave.
Section 12.5 - Military Leave - Active Duty. An employee, who volunteers, is inducted or is recalled into active military duty shall be considered on a leave of absence without pay for a period of such service as required by law. An employee requesting reemployment after of honorable discharge or separation from such military service, within the time frame required by the Uniformed Services Employees and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRS), shall be reinstated and restored, as nearly as existing circumstances permit, and the employee's current qualifications allow, to the position previously held with eligibility for past experience credit(s) as provided by law.
ARTICLE 13	- GROUP INSURANCE: MEDICAL/DENTAL/LIFE
Section 1. Medical Plans The employer will pay a maximum of S1012.98 per month for eligible full-time employees and their dependents for negotiated medical, vision and prescription drug benefits for the period January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009. Eligible full-time employees may not opt out of these insurance benefits.
•	For the Regence Selections Plan, the maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $1009.19
« For the Regence Preferred Plan, the entire monthly premium shall be $1089.20. The maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $1012.98 and the employee shall pay the remaining amount of $76.22 per month through payroll deduction.
2008-313con.doc	Exhibit "A"
Page 19 of30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
•	For the Regence FourFront Plan, the maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $961.27.
® For the Group Health Plan, the maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $857.92
Section 2.Dental Plans The employer will pay a maximum of $144.42 per month for eligible full-time employees and their dependents for dental benefits for the period January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009.
•	For the Washington Dental Service Plan, the maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $144.42.
« For the Willamette Dental of Washington Plan, the maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $99.15.
Section 3. Life Insurance The employer will pay a maximum monthly life insurance premium of $ 1.73 for $15,000 of group term life insurance for eligible full-time employees for the period January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009.
Section 4, For calendar year 2010, the parties agree to reopen negotiations on overall plan design and level of contribution by the parties, provided an agreement cannot be reached as part of the calendar year 2009 negotiations.
Section 5.	For calendar year 2011, the parties agree to reopen negotiations on overall plan design and level of contribution by the parties, provided an agreement cannot be reached as part of the calendar year 2010 negotiations.
Section 6.	The Employer will pay a pro-rata share of medical, dental and life insurance premium costs for regular part-time employees regularly scheduled to work one-half the normal workweek or more based upon the ratio of their standard hours to full-time hours for those employees who elect coverage. Regular part-time employees who choose the Regence Preferred Plan shall pay the excess premium above $ 1012.98 per month in addition to their pro-rata share of the County’s premium. Part-time employees who do not elect coverage will not receive any pay in lieu of the premium payments.
Section 7.	Regular part-time employees and employees on authorized leaves of absence without pay shall be permitted to select the health benefit coverage of their choice, at the employees’ expense, i.e. health insurance, dental insurance and/or life insurance. Employees on authorized leaves of absence without pay who elect not to retain any coverage during the period of the leave of absence shall be required to serve any plan-required waiting period upon re-enrollment. Employees on approved leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, as amended, shall be provided benefit continuation in accordance with the provisions of that Act.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 20 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
Section 8. The Employer will provide a flexible spending account plan under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code effective at the start of the first pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2009 and continuing for the duration of the agreement. The Employer shall pay any administrative premium or cost of the plan for the duration of the agreement. All plan contributions will be at the option of the employee within the limitations of the plan and at the employee's expense.
ARTICLE 14	- RETIREMENT
All eligible employees shall be covered under the Washington State Public Employees' Retirement System.
ARTICLE 15	- WORKERS COMPENSATION
The Employer will provide Washington State Workers' Compensation or equivalent to all employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16	- GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Section 16.1 - Definition A grievance shall be defined as a dispute arising from a Management interpretation or application of the provisions of this Agreement which adversely affects an employee's wages, hours or conditions of employment and is contrary to the terms of this Agreement. Grievances arising from the terms of this Agreement relating to any suspension of more than twenty (20) working days, reduction in rank or pay or dismissal for cause may be appealed either through this grievance procedure or to the County's Personnel Board at the employee's option but may not be appealed through both avenues for relief. Copies of all grievances shall be submitted to the Union.
Section 16.2 - Procedure If a decision is not returned to the Union within the time limits specified in each step below, the employee may, after the time limit has passed, present the grievance to the County representative specified in the next step of the grievance procedure. Grievances and appeals must be filed within the time limits specified below. If a grievance is not presented or if an appeal of a decision rendered regarding the grievance/appeal is not filed within the time limits, the grievance/appeal shall be considered resolved.
No claim shall be granted for retroactive adjustment of any grievance prior to ten (10) calendar days from the date of filing a grievance.
Step 1: The grievance shall be filed by the employee or shop steward with the employee's immediate supervisor within ten (10) working days of the occurrence which gave rise to the grievance or when the employee or Union should have reasonably had first knowledge of the grievance. Such grievance shall be filed on a standard County grievance form, shall set forth the specific contract provisions alleged to have been violated and include the proposed remedy. Within five (5) working days of receipt of the written grievance, the supervisor shall meet with the employee. Within five (5) working days thereafter, a written decision shall be given to the employee.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A”
Page 21 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
Step 2: If a grievance is not settled at Step 1, it may be presented to the Department Director or designee. The grievance shall be submitted within five (5) working days after receipt of the decision at Step 1 or the expiration of the time limits, whichever is earlier. Such appeal shall be written on a standard County grievance form, shall set forth the specific contract provisions alleged to have been violated, the reason for dissatisfaction and include the proposed remedy. Within five (5) working days of receipt of the written grievance, the Department Director or designee, shall meet with the employee and/or representative. Within five (5) working days thereafter, a written decision shall be given to the grievant or representative.
Step 3: If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, it maybe presented to the County Executive or Labor Relations Designee. The grievance shall be submitted within five (5) working days after receipt of the decision at Step 2 or the expiration of the time limits, whichever is earlier. Such appeal shall be written on a standard County grievance form, shall set forth the specific contract provisions alleged to have been violated, the reason for dissatisfaction and include the proposed remedy. Within ten (10) working days of receipt of the written grievance, the County Executive or Labor Relations Designee shall meet with the employee and/or representative. Within ten (10) working days thereafter, a written decision shall be given to the grievant or representative.
Step 4: If a grievance is not resolved under Step 3 an arbitration request may be submitted by the Union designee. Only signatories to this agreement may refer a grievance to arbitration. Such request shall be presented in writing to the County Executive or Labor Relations Designee within five (5) work days from the date the decision was rendered at Step 3. As soon as practicable thereafter or as otherwise agreed to by the parties, an arbitrator shall hear the grievance. In the event the parties cannot agree on a selection of an impartial arbitrator within ten (10) working days from the receipt of the request for arbitration, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, the American Arbitration Association or some other agreed upon source shall be requested to submit a list of eleven (11) arbitrators from which list the arbitrator shall be selected by alternately striking one (1) name from the list until only one (1) name shall remain. The decision of the arbitrator shall be rendered as expeditiously as possible and shall be final and binding upon both parties. Any decision rendered shall be within the scope of this Agreement and shall not add to or subtract from any of the terms of the Agreement. The arbitrator shall be restricted to the precise issue(s) submitted for arbitration and shall have no authority to determine other issues not so submitted. The cost and expense of the employment of the impartial arbitrator mentioned above shall be bome equally by the parties hereto. Each side shall bear its own expenses and fees incumbent in presenting their respective case to the arbitrator, including attorney fees.
Section 16.3 The union shall not be required to press employee grievances if, in the Union's opinion such grievances lack merit.
Section 16.4 The grievance and arbitration procedures provided for herein shall constitute the sole and exclusive method of adjusting all complaints or disputes which the Union or employees may have and
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A”
Page 22 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
7
which relate to or concern the employees and the Employer; provided, however, in alleged discrimination in violation of subsection 2.1, an employee shall elect to apply the grievance procedure or other forum, but not both.
The time limits set forth above may be extended by mutual agreement of the Employer and the Union.
Section 16.5 Union class grievances may be initiated at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to resolve any grievance at any step in the procedure. Such resolution shall be final and binding upon both parties. No grievance shall be resolved without the concurrence of the County Executive or Labor Relations Designee.
Section 16.6 If any two (2) or more employees have essentially the same grievance they must collectively present and pursue their grievance(s).
ARTICLE 17	- NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
Section 17.1 There shall be no work stoppages, slow down, boycott, sympathy strike, refusal to cross a picket line, or lockout for any reason regardless of whether the action of either party may be reasonably concluded as a violation of this Agreement or any law, policy or regulation during the life of this Agreement.
Section 17.2 Employees who refuse to cross a legal, primary picket line as recognized by the Union through its Secretary-Treasurer, which is directed at other than County facilities shall not constitute a violation of this Agreement and shall not be cause for discharge or disciplinary action; provided, however, that such decision shall be made freely by such employees without coercion by either the Employer or the Union. Nothing in this paragraph, 17.2, shall be construed to preclude the Employer from continuing to maintain and operate County functions with or without replacement personnel. Employees will be required to work and cross a primary picket line as described in this paragraph 17.2 when deemed necessary by the County to assure public health and safety.
ARTICLE 18	- SAVINGS
Should any provision of this Agreement be rendered invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation shall not invalidate the remaining portions of this Agreement, and the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect. The parties agree to meet and discuss whether by mutual consent such invalid provision should be amended or replaced.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 23 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
ARTICLE 19	- SUBCONTRACTING
The Employer will notify the Union in accordance with applicable labor laws in advance of the implementation of the subcontracting out of bargaining unit work which would result in the termination or layoff of a major segment of the bargaining unit employees.
ARTICLE 20	- EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
Any employee in the bargaining unit, when being questioned in a pre-disciplinary meeting by the employer about matters which may result in discipline, suspension, demotion, and/or termination, has the right to have a choice of Union shop steward or Union representative of the employee's choice present within a reasonable length of time. The questioning by the Employer shall be during normal County business hours unless agreed to be held at other times by the employee.
ARTICLE 21	- SAFETY AND SANITATION
The County agrees to provide a clean and sanitary work environment and comply with all applicable state and federal laws to ensure worker safety.
ARTICLE 22	- MATTERS COVERED AND COMPLETE AGREEMENT
Section 22.1 All matters not specifically covered in this Agreement shall be deemed to have been raised and disposed of as if specifically covered herein. It is agreed that this document contains the full and complete agreement on all bargainable issues between the parties hereto and for all for whose benefit this Agreement is made, and no party shall be required during the term of this Agreement to negotiate or bargain upon any issue.
Section 22.2 The failure of the Union to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement or exercise any rights granted by law or the failure of the employer to exercise any rights reserved to it or its exercise of any such right in a particular way shall not be deemed a waiver of such right or a waiver of its authority to exercise any such right in some other way not in conflict with this Agreement.
ARTICLE 23	- TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 23.1 - Retroactivity This Agreement shall be retroactive to January 1,2009, for all those who are currently on the employer's payroll as of the date this Agreement was ratified by the employees and for those who have retired during the term of this Agreement, but excluding all others, except for those provisions of the Agreement which have been assigned other effective dates as hereinabove set forth, and shall remain in full force and effect to and including the 31st day of December, 2011.
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 24 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
Section 23.2 - Notice Either party shall file written notice with the other of its desire to amend, modify or terminate this Agreement, pursuant to the provisions of RCW 41.56. The Union shall file such notice with the Director of Human Resources, the Employer with the directing business representative.
Requests from the Union for changes in wages, fringe benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment shall be submitted to the Director of Human Resources or designee no later than 120 calendar days before expiration of the current agreement. This article is not intended to prevent the Union from submitting additional proposals after the 120-day deadline. However, the Union shall make a good faith effort to provide their proposals by the specified time period. The parties shall establish a deadline for submission of proposals during the collective bargaining process.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this ^-day of 20°8-
TEAMSTERS, CHAUFFEURS, WAREHOUSEMEN AND HELPERS UNION, LOCAL NO. 313
PIERCE COUNTY
Secretary-Treasurer
Business Representative
Joe Carrillo
Labor Relations Manager
Labor Relations Analyst 2
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A”
Page 25 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
APPENDIX A
The following are the bargaining units and classifications represented:
Class Number	Represented Classification Bargaining ID Range
Public Works/Utilities Classifications - Roads, Traffic and Water Programs
406300	Maintenance Office Manager	3B	14
915100	Maintenance Worker	3B	21
(Note: The Maintenance Worker position is considered entry-level and will serve one (1) year initial probationary period. Employees who successfully complete the probationary period as a Maintenance Worker and meet all requirements of the Maintenance Technician position may compete through a promotional process as determined by management.)
915400	Maintenance Technician	3B	24
945500	Traffic Sign Technician	3B	24
916900	Maintenance Technician Lead	3B	26
Facilities Classifications
405400 Gardener 1	3B	04
Exhibit "A"
Page 26 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
2008-313con.doc
APPENDIX B
APPENDIX B.l
EQUIPMENT - OPERATION CLASS LEVEL
Maintenance Worker
Operation may be required by any represented classification.
E.R.& R. Type Code
A.	Passenger Cars:
1.	Full Size Sedan
2.	Mid Size Sedan
3.	Compact Sedan
B.	Station Wagons:
1.	Station Wagon
2.	Light Delivery
3.	Station Wagon 4x4
C.	Carry-Alls
1.	4x2
2.	4x4
3.	Van
D.	Panels
1.	1/2 Ton
2.	3/4 Ton
3.	1 Ton
E.	Pick-ups
1.	1/4 Ton, 4 x 2
2.	1/2 Ton, 4x2
3.	3/4 Ton, 4x2
4.	1 Ton, 4x2
5.	6-Passenger, Crew Truck
6.	Flatbed Stake Truck
F.	Miscellaneous
Exhibit "A"
Page 27 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
2008-313con.doc
1.	Small Hand Equipment (power or hand)
2.	Jack Hammer
3.	Mechanical Tamper
4.	Weed Sprayer, Hand or Back Pack
5.	Row Boat, Power Boats, All Boats
6.	Chain Saw
7.	Concrete Mixer
8.	Water Tank, Skid Mounted
9.	Sand Blaster
10.	Air Compressor
11.	Generator 5KW
12.	Peanut Roller
13.	Weed Sprayer, Power 500 Gal. (Helper without valid and current herbicide applicator license)
14.	Eductor, Vactor, Jet Rodder (Helper)
15.	Brush Chipper
16.	Fork Lift
17.	Sweeper, Towed Broom
18.	All Single Axle Trailers
19.	All Others Not Listed in Appendix B.2
20.	Front-mount broom shoulder mower combo
21.	Under-chassis broom.
G.	Towing of Single Axle Equipment
1.	Towed by Pick-up
2.	Towed by Single Axle Dump Truck (when used as a towing vehicle only)
H.	Asphalt Equipment
1	. Assistant on Oil Distributor (Trucks or Trailer)
2.	Tarkettle
3.	Crack Sealer
4.	Patch Master
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 28 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
APPENDIX B.2
EQUIPMENT - OPERATION CLASS LEVEL
(This section does not apply to the classification of Gardener.)
Maintenance Technician
Work may be assigned to any Maintenance Technician or higher classification if higher level work is not available.
E.R.& R.
Type Code
A.	Dump Trucks (All)
B.	Trucks with Special Body
1.	Lift Truck
2.	Wrecker
3.	Eductor, Vactor, Jet Rodder (Operator-Driver Only)
4.	Traffic Line Striper
5.	Street Flusher, Water Truck (All)
6.	Ditchmaster
7.	Weed Sprayers, Power 500 Gal. (Operator-Driver and helper if possess current and valid herbicide applicator license)
8.	Bridge Truck
9.	Thermolay Truck
10.	Boom Truck
C.	Truck, Trailer
1.	Lowboy Tractor
2.	Lowboy Trailer
3.	Tanker Trailer
D.	Asphalt Equipment
1.	Oil Distributor (Truck-Mounted Unit Only)
E.	Trailers
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 29 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120
1.	Tiltbed, Tandem Axle
2.	Utility, Tandem Axle
F.	Sweepers
1.	Pick-up Sweeper
2.	Front-End Broom
G.	Snow Plows and Sanding Equipment
1.	Tailgate
2.	Mold Board Push Plow
3.	V-Box Sander
H.	Tractor-Mowers
1.	With Sickle Bar Mower
2.	With Rotary Mower
2008-313con.doc
Exhibit "A"
Page 30 of 30, Ordinance No. 2008-120