
triplicate
CONTRACT
By and Between
PIERCE COUNTY
and
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO, LOCAL NO. 483 TRAFFIC SIGNAL
2009- 2011
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 1 of28
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE_______________________________________________________________PAGE
ARTICLE 1		     4
ARTICLE 2	- NON-DISCRIMINATION......................................... 4
ARTICLE 3	- RECOGNITION AND UNION SECURITY................;............ 4
ARTICLE 4	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ......................................... 6
ARTICLE 5	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME ................................ 7
5.1	Workweek ........................................................ 7
5.2	Overtime................................................  ;...... 7
5.3	Compensatory Time..............................................   8
5.4	No Pyramiding ................................................... 8
5.5	On-Call........................................................   8
5.6	Emergency Callback..............................................  9
5.7	Holiday Pay...................................................... 9
5.8	Scheduled Overtime...................................   :.........9
ARTICLE 6	- WAGES ....................................................  9
6.1	Wages............................................................ 9
6.2	Pay Period ...................................................   10
6.3	Mileage......................................................... 10
6.4	Assigned Vehicles .............................................. 10
6.5	Gloves ......................................................... 10
6.6	Longevity....................................................... 10
6.7	Allowance........................................................10
ARTICLE 7	- SENIORITY................................................. 10
7.1	Seniority .....................................................  10
7.2	State or Federal Funding ....................................... 11
7.3	Personnel Files ..........................'....................  11
7.4	Promotions ...................................................... 11
7.5	Pay for Work Performed in Higher Classifications................. 11
7.6	Layoffs......................................................... 12
7.7	Recall within Bargaining Units ................................. 12
7.8	Referral to Other Departments .................................. 12
ARTICLE 8	- VACATIONS ................................................ 12
ARTICLE 9	- HOLIDAYS .................................:............... 14
ARTICLE 10	- SICK LEAVE ............................................  15
ARTICLE 11	- COMPENSATED LEAVES OF ABSENCE .........................   17
11.1	Jury Duty ..................................................... 17
11.2	Bereavement Leave.............................................. 17
11.3	Reserve Military Leaves........................................ 18
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 2 of 28
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ARTICLE PAGE
ARTICLE 12	- UNPAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE ......................... 18
12.1	Process..............................................   18
12.2	Effect on Work......................................... 18
12.3	Effect on Benefits....................................  19
12.4	Unpaid Leave for Maternity Reasons..................... 19
12.5	Military Leave - Active Duty .......................... 19
ARTICLE 13-GROUP INSURANCE: MEDICAL/DENTAL/LIFE................ 19
ARTICLE 14	- RETIREMENT ....................................... 21
ARTICLE 15	- WORKERS COMPENSATION.............................. 21
ARTICLE 16	- GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE .............. 21
16.1	Definition..........................................    21
16.2	Procedure...............................................21
ARTICLE 17	- EMPLOYEE RIGHTS .................................. 23
ARTICLE 18	- NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT............................ 23
ARTICLE 19-	SUBCONTRACTING .................................... 24
ARTICLE 20	- SAVINGS .......................................... 24
ARTICLE 21	- SAFETY AND SANITATION...............i............. 24
ARTICLE 22	- MATTERS COVERED AND COMPLETE AGREEMENT............ 24
ARTICLE 23	- TERM OF AGREEMENT................................. 24
APPENDIX A - REPRESENTED JOB CLASSIFICATIONS..................... 26
ADDENDUM 1 - REASONABLE SUSPICION CHECKLIST.................... 27
2009-483cba.doc	Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 3 of28

2009-2011
CONTRACT
By and Between
PIERCE COUNTY
and
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF
ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO, LOCAL NO. 483 TRAFFIC SIGNAL
ARTICLE 1
This Agreement is made and entered into by and between PIERCE COUNTY for its operations listed below, hereinafter referred to as the "Employer," and INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO, LOCAL NO. 483 hereinafter referred to as the "Union." The purpose of this Agreement is to enumerate those collective bargaining conditions for fair and equitable relationships between the Employer and its employees and to secure amicable and fair disposition of grievance and permit efficient operation of Pierce County's business and to protect the interest of the public.
ARTICLE 2	- NONDISCRIMINATION
Neither the Employer, Union nor any employee shall in any manner whatsoever discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race; color; religion; creed; sex; marital status; national origin; age; or sensory, mental or physical handicaps or disabilities.
ARTICLE 3	- RECOGNITION AND UNION SECURITY
Section 3.1	The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent relative to wages, hours and working conditions for the employees employed in job classifications listed in Appendix "A."
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 4 of28
2009-483cba.doc
Section 3.2
3.2.1	- Union Security. All employees in the Bargaining Unit who are members of the Union shall, as a condition of employment, remain members of the Union in good standing for the duration of this Agreement. All other employees shall, as a condition of employment, within thirty (30) days after the commencement of employment or the effective date of this Agreement become and remain members of the Union in good standing for the duration of this Agreement, except as provided in subsection 3.2.2 of this Article.
"Good standing," as used in Article 3, shall mean that the employee has paid timely or offered to pay the uniform initiation fees and regular monthly dues uniformly required for membership in the Union.
The termination of any employee for failure to comply with the provisions of this Article 3 shall be on written notice from the Union to the Employer and employee, setting forth the reason for their delinquent status and allowing thirty (30) calendar days from receipt of notice to bring membership into good standing.
Section 3.2.2. Those employees who, because of religious teachings of a church or religious body, maybe excluded from the terms of subsection 3.2.1 of this Article; however, they shall pay an amount equal to the regular Union dues and initiation fee to a non-religious charity or other charitable organization mutually agreed upon by the public employee affected, and the bargaining representative to which such public employee would otherwise pay dues and initiation fee. The public employee shall furnish proof to the Union each month that such payment has been made to the agreed upon charitable organization. Any disputes under this section will be resolved by the Public Employment Relations Commission pursuant to R.C.W. 41.56.
Section 3.3.	The County agrees that upon written authorization of any employee who is a member of a Bargaining Unit, the County shall deduct from the pay of said employee the monthly amount of dues, and only dues, as certified by the Secretary of the Bargaining Unit. Any employee wishing to cancel the written authorization for dues deduction must notify the County and Union in writing, at which time the County will discontinue the deduction.
Section 3.4.	The Union shall indemnify the County against any and all claims, demands, suits, or other form of liability that shall arise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the County for the purpose of complying with any of the provisions of the payroll deduction.
Section 3,5, An authorized officer of the Union shall have access to the Employer's operations at reasonable times for the purpose of investigation of grievances, adjusting disputes and ascertaining that the Agreement is being adhered to provided that such visit shall not interfere with the work process or cause undue interruption of the employees’ work schedule. There shall be no more than one (1) shop steward for each Bargaining Unit except where operations are physically separated as
2009-483cba.doc	Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page5of28
mutually agreed to between the Union Business Representative and the Personnel Director.
Section 3.6.	The Pierce County Charter shall prevail in matters affecting policies relating to employees working under the jurisdiction of this Agreement. However, if provisions contained in this Agreement relating to wages, hours and working conditions are in conflict with County ordinances pertaining thereto, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.7.	The Bargaining Unit status of new positions instituted by the Employer shall be made after taking into consideration the following elements of the job: the community of interests, similarities of duties, required skills, interchange, working conditions and organizational level ofthe positions contained in Appendix "A" as provided by R.C.W. 41.56.060. Any dispute in applying this Section maybe resolved in accordance with the applicable law, R.C.W. 41.56.060. The grievance procedure shall not apply in issues pertaining to this Section.
ARTICLE 4	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 4.1. The Employer retains and reserves all powers arid authority to manage its operations in an effective manner with the sole and unquestioned right and prerogative in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and the Pierce County Charter, subject only to the limitations expressly stated in this Agreement:
a.	To plan, direct, control and determine all the operations and services of the Employer;
b.	To supervise, transfer, and direct the workforce, to establish the qualifications for employment and to employ employees;
c.	To schedule and assign work;
d.	To establish work and performance standards and, from time to time, to change those standards;
e.	To assign overtime;
f.	To determine the methods, means, organization and number of personnel by which such operations and services shall be made, purchased, or to subcontract work;
g.	To make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations;
h.	To discipline, suspend and discharge employees for cause. Employees in their initial probationary period are considered "at-will" employees and may be terminated for any reason not expressly prohibited by law. (Probationary employees have recourse to only Steps 1, 2, and 3 of the grievance process.); and
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 6 of28
i.	To change or eliminate existing methods, equipment or facilities.
Section 4,2. When the County has cause to believe an employee does not have or has not had a valid driver’s license, the County has the right to require an employee to provide evidence of a valid driver’s license if such is required by the classification or if the employee has or will at any time drive a County vehicle. Such requirement may include having the employee sign a release of driving record; payment of fee is to be paid by the employer. Any employee who operates a County vehicle must immediately (no later than the employee’s next scheduled work day) notify his/her immediate supervisor if the employee’s driver’s license, including CDL and/or any work-related endorsements, is suspended, revoked or otherwise becomes invalid. Notice shall only be given if license or endorsements are required for work.
Section 4.3. When the County has reason to believe that an employee is under the influence of alcohol and/or controlled substances, the County may require the employee to submit to reasonable suspicion alcohol and/or controlled substances testing. The testing methods and thresholds for screening specimens shall be in accordance with the Pierce County Alcohol and Controlled Substances Testing Program dated August 1995. These standards are mandated by Federal law for specified employees with a commercial driver’s license and are currently set by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). If the confirmatory test results are negative, all samples shall be destroyed and any reference to the testing shall be expunged from the employee’s personnel file. If an employee is required to undergo a “reasonable suspicion” alcohol and/or controlled substances test, the supervisor must complete the Post-Accident/Reasonable Suspicion Checklist form documenting the behavior which led to the reasonable suspicion. At least one other witness who observed the suspicious behavior must also sign this form. This form appears as Addendum #1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE 5	- HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 5.1 - Workweek. The normal workweek for full-time employees shall be five (5) consecutive days, Monday through Friday, of eight hours worked exclusive of lunch period. The normal workday will be within the hours of 6:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M., or by mutual agreement.
Section 5.2 - Overtime. Overtime shall apply for hours compensated beyond eight (8) hours per day or a forty (40) hour workweek of an employee as authorized. Payment for such authorized overtime hours worked shall be at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) the straight-time regular hourly rate of pay. An employee who is scheduled to work on a Sunday will be compensated at two (2) times the employee's straight-time regular hourly rate of pay.
Section 5.3	- Compensatory Time. Payment for authorized overtime hours worked shall be pay or compensatory time, as requested by the employee and authorized by the Division Manager or designee at the time earned. Compensatory time accumulated shall not exceed ten (10) working days at any time.
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 7 of28
2009-483cba.doc
Section 5.4	- No Pyramiding. Compensation shall not be paid more than once for the same hours under any provision of this Article or Agreement.
Section 5.5 - On-Call. The on-call program shall be staffed by qualified employees in job classifications of Traffic Signal Technician 1, Traffic Signal Technician 2, and Traffic Signal Technician 3. Employee’s on-call shall be free from the effect of alcohol and/or any controlled substance and in communications via pager, radio or telephone and so immediately available.
A vehicle and pager shall be provided to employees in on-call status. The assigned vehicle which shall be identified as a 24-hour on-call or emergency or similarly designated vehicle shall be stored at the employee’s residence (approved on-call location) or at an alternative approved on-call location. Except in emergency circumstances the assigned vehicle shall be occupied by County employees only. Assigned vehicles may be used for personal use, subject to guidelines established by the County. The union will be invited to review and provide input to proposed guidelines prior to final implementation.
Employees shall be considered to have received a call-out notification when contacted by County personnel or the County’s answering service. Employees called-out will record all information received from the answering service on a trouble receipt form. As a general rule, departure to the call-out work site from the approved or alternative on-call location shall occur no longer than 15 minutes after the call-out notice is received. Guidelines for call-out problems received while in transition from regular- work hours to after work hours shall be observed.
On-call pay shall be at 1.5x base pay for work performed outside normal work hours or 2x base pay for Sundays. Compensated time shall begin at the time the call-out notification is received by the employee and shall end upon return to employee’s residence or other authorized on-call location.
Employees shall be compensated at the rate of $2.75 per hour (or a rate corresponding to the rate granted in other Public Works and Utilities Department bargaining agreements with a flat hourly on-call rate, whichever is higher) for all hours served in on-call status. Effective January 1, 2007 the rate shall be increased to $2.80 per hour. On-call duty shall be rotated among qualified employees on a weekly basis. However, employees shall be permitted to exchange on-call status with other qualified employees within policies and procedures established by Pierce County.
Use of employee work time while on-call shall be in accordance with County provided guidelines.
All current and future employees in the classifications of Traffic Signal Technician 1,2, or 3 shall be required to reside within Pierce County and shall maintain said residency requirement while so employed unless an exception is approved in advance of any change. Each request for exception shall be evaluated on individual merit and response time and no reasonable request shall be denied.
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 8 of 28
Section 5.6 - Emergency Call-Back. This section shall not apply to employees who are on-call. If called back to perform work outside the normal work hours, employees shall be compensated at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times their basic rate of pay for the actual number of hours worked with a two hour minimum. Employees continuing working past the normal quitting time of the scheduled eight (8) hour day shall be compensated for the actual hours worked at the overtime rate. All callback time starts at the time employees are dispatched outside of their regular working hours, but in no case to be longer than thirty (3 0) minutes from the time the employee is called until work is begun.
Section 5.7 - Holiday Pay. Employees who work on a County-observed holiday shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times the straight-time regular hourly rate of pay, plus holiday pay at straight time.
Section 5.8 - Scheduled Overtime. When practicable, scheduled overtime will be distributed in an equitable manner, within classification. Employees will initially be placed on a list in order of seniority. When overtime is required, employees shall be offered the overtime in the order their names appear on the list, within classification. Employees shall be moved to the bottom of the list when they either work the overtime or decline the overtime. Management reserves the right to assign overtime in the required classification, when necessary as determined by the County.
ARTICLE 6	- WAGES
Section 6.1 - Wages.
6.1.1	- 2009. Employees shall be granted a 5.22% wage adjustment effective January 1, 2009.
6.1.2	- 2010. Employees shall be granted a wage adjustment equal to 90% of the bi-monthly Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton CPI-U increase reported in July 2009 (for information from June 2009 compared to the 12 months beginning June 2008), but not less than 2.5% nor greater than 5.5%, effective January 1, 2010.
6.1.3	- 2011. Employees shall be granted a wage adjustment equal to 90% of the bi-monthly Seattle-Tacoma-Bremerton CPI-U increase reported in July 2010 (for information from June 2010 compared to the 12 months beginning June 2009), but not less than 2.5% nor greater than 5.5%, effective January 1, 2011.
Section 6.1.4- Y-Rate. Employees shown in the Pay and Class Plan as “Y-rate” shall receive no cost-of-living adjustment (in Section 6.1 above). At such time as the top pay rate of their classification meets or exceeds their “Y-rate”, the employee shall be placed at the appropriate step and shall again be eligible for cost of living adjustments.
Section 6.2-Pay Period. The pay period shall be every two (2) weeks commencing at 12:01 a.m. on
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 9 of 28
Monday and ending at midnight the following Sunday. The Employer will make available bi-weekly • checks by 12:00p.m. on the Friday next following the close of the pay period whenever possible. If a payday falls on a holiday, the payday shall be the preceding day. If the preceding day is also a holiday, the payday shall be the preceding day.
Section 6.3 - Mileage. Employees authorized to use their private vehicle for County business or in the performance of their official duties shall receive reimbursement at the rate permitted by the IRS, for actual miles of necessary travel. In no event will reimbursement for miles driven exceed an amount equal to the round-trip coach air fare of a common carrier. Mileage reimbursement shall not be paid for miles driven from the employee's usual place of residence and assigned work location.
Section 6.4 - Assigned Vehicles. Personal assignment of a County vehicle shall be at the discretion of the County Executive. The Executive will establish administrative rales and regulations on vehicle use and assignment.
Section 6.5 - Gloves. Upon request, the Employer shall make arrangements to provide a pair of leather gloves, but no more than two pair shall be provided annually.
Section 6.6 - Longevity. Employees who currently qualify for participation in the longevity program will continue to participate and progress in accordance with the current percentage factors for continuous years of employment. New employees hired after January 1,1983, shall not be eligible or participate in the longevity program.
Section 6.7 - Allowance. Personnel working in the classifications of Traffic Signal Technician 1,2 and 3 will be provided a lump sum of $ 160 annually (subject to legally required deductions) to allow employees to purchase their own clothing and equipment for use while working. Such lump sum will be paid once per year in the second pay cycle ending in September to all current and continuing employees in the classifications listed above who have completed their initial probation as of September 1 of each year. There will be no pro-rata payments.
ARTICLE 7	- SENIORITY
Section 7.1 - Seniority. Except as provided in Sections 7.2, "seniority" is the amount of continuous service within all operations of County government. Seniority shall date back to the date of hire in a regular status, but shall not be established until completion of the "probationary period." An employee may be disciplined and/or discharged during this probationary period without recourse to the grievance procedure contained herein. An employee shall lose seniority under this Agreement for the following reasons:
a.	Retirement,
b.	Voluntary termination,
2009-483cba.doc	Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 10 of28
c.	Discharge for cause,
d.	Failure to return to work after offer of recall is made,
e.	Failure to return to work promptly after an authorized leave of absence,
f.	Absence from work, including layoff, for a period in excess of 12 consecutive months, and
g.	Absence without approval beyond three (3) working days.
The period of layoff or unpaid leave of absence will not count toward the computation of the amount of "continuous time in service."
Section 7,2 - State or Federal Funding. County employees whose positions are funded by state or federal funds shall be accorded seniority in accordance with this Article unless otherwise specified by the provisions of a specific program.
Section 7,3 - Personnel Files. Employees shall have the right to review their personnel file on break time, lunch time, or leave status, and request amendments of any statements in their file. If amendment is refused, the employee shall be entitled to file a rebuttal statement in their file. Employee evaluations are not subject to the grievance procedures contained herein. All performance evaluations shall be shown to the employee (and counter-signed by the employee to indicate compliance with this Section) before being included in their personnel file. An employee's signature does not necessarily indicate agreement. The business representative may with reasonable notice, inspect personnel files during regular business hours.
Section 7,4 - Promotions. Promotions to higher job classifications covered by this Agreement shall be in accordance with Administrative Guidelines for the Career Service.
Section 7.5 - Pay for Work Performed in Higher Classifications. When an employee is required to perform work in a higher classification for one (1) foil hour or more, the employee shall be paid the rate of pay for hours worked in such classification. Compensation for working out of class shall not result in any rights to a permanent classification.
Section 7,6 - Layoffs. When the Employer determines it is necessary to reduce the work force in classifications within a bargaining unit, regular full-time employees will be laid off based upon ability to do the work without retraining, provided employees with the least seniority will be laid off first when ability is equal.
For layoff purposes, seniority shall first be based on the amount of continuous service within all operations of County Government. If seniority is equal, the employees to be laid off shall be
2009-483cba.doc	Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 11 of28
determined by "past performance". No regular full-time employee shall be laid off or demoted while there are temporary or probationary employees serving in the same classification in the same bargaining unit, provided they are fully qualified to do the remaining work required to be performed as determined by the County. Employees being laid off shall be given two (2) weeks notice of layoff. Such two (2) weeks notice shall not be required in programs where funds are discontinued by state of federal agencies without adequate notice to the County.
Bumping rights shall only apply in the employee's present classification and lower classifications in the same series for which the employee is qualified in the bargaining unit to which the employee is presently assigned. Employees being laid off shall keep the Employer's Human Resources Office informed of their current address and telephone number.
Section 7.7 - Recall within Bargaining Units. Employees laid off will be placed on a recall register for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months from the date of layoff. Employees laid off will be recalled and re-employed in the inverse order of layoff. An employee who declines a recall offer to a position of comparable hours or fails to respond to a recall offer by the County within seven (7) business days, shall be removed from the recall register. Such recalled employees shall return with County seniority for the purpose of computing wage and fringe benefits, except the period of layoff shall not be counted.
Section 7,8 - Referral to Other Departments. Employees laid off by the Employer who are desirous of reemployment in other operations of the County while on layoff from the Bargaining Unit under this Agreement shall notify the Employer's Human Resources Office and shall complete a layoff personnel form as lateral or lower level positions open for which they are potentially qualified. If qualified, such employees will be referred for consideration prior to hiring new employees. Employees hired in a different department or new classification series in the same department will be subject to a new probationary period.
ARTICLE 8	- VACATIONS
Section 8.1
Section 8.1.1 Accruals. Regular full-time employees hired on or after January 1,1983, shall be granted vacation benefits in accordance with the following schedule as of anniversary dates falling on or after the dates indicated, provided they are compensated at least seventy percent (70%) of their standard work hours per pay cycle:
During the Applicable Continuous Accruable Year of Employment
1	st through 3rd year
4th through 7th year
8th through 13 th year
Paid Vacation Days
12 days
16 days
20 days
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 12 of 28
2009-483cba.doc
14th through 18th year	23 days
An additional day per year to a maximum of 30 days per year.
Note: Changes to the number of paid vacation days in this section were effective March 31, 2003.
Section 8.1.2 Effective January 1,1983, employees who have earned and qualified for vacation leave that exceeds thirty (30) days per year shall maintain the number of vacation days earned as of January 1, 1983. All other employees who are not qualified for thirty (30) days as of January 1,1983, shall maintain the number of vacation days earned as of January 1, 1983, then earn an additional day of vacation at the completion of every other year to a maximum of thirty (30) days per year or until they are entitled to additional vacation day accrual as set forth in the schedule in Section 8.1.1.
Section 8.2 Part-time employees regularly scheduled to work one-half a normal workweek or more shall be entitled to a pro-rata portion of vacation benefits based on hours compensated exclusive of overtime pay, provided they are compensated at least seventy percent (70%) of their standard work hours.
Section 8.3.	New eligible employees shall earn vacation leave at the same rate as other eligible employees, but their vacation leave shall not be granted or accrued until they have completed thirteen (13) accruable pay cycles of employment. New employees terminating before they have completed thirteen (13) accruable pay cycles shall not be eligible for payment for accrued vacation leave upon such termination.
Section 8.4.	Eligible employees who have completed thirteen (13) accruable pay cycles shall be paid for unused accrued vacation leave days upon termination of employment.
Section 8.5.	Eligible employees may carry over a maximum balance of vacation leave of forty-five (45) days per year from one calendar year into the next calendar year. However, upon retirement or separation from County service, employees shall be paid for a maximum of sixty (60) days accumulated annual leave.
Section 8.6.	It is the intent that each employee takes his/her accrued vacation leave during the calendar year earned, provided employees may carry over accrued vacation subject to Section 8.5.
Employees who are unable to take accrued vacation leave for which they are eligible within the year due to work-incurred disability or work requirements as determined by the Department Head or designee that cannot be carried over as provided in Section 8.5 of this Article, shall, upon approval of the Personnel Director, be allowed to carry over additional vacation leave provided it is used within the next six (6) months and may not be cashed out in a lump sum payment due to termination.
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 13 of 28
2009-483cba.doc
ARTICLE 9	- HOLIDAYS
Section 9.1.	Regular full-time employees shall be granted the following holidays off with pay.
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King's Day
President's Day
Memorial Day Independence Day Two Personal Holidays
Labor Day
Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Christmas Day
The day of observance of the above holidays shall be days specified by County ordinance. If any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be the holiday. If the holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be the holiday. The employee must be on paid status on the normal workday preceding and following such holiday.
Section 9.2.	Regular full-time and regular part-time employees shall receive two paid "personal" holidays. P aid personal holidays shall accrue on J anuary 1 of each year and must be taken during the calendar year in which accrued or the days will lapse except when an employee has requested and been approved use of the personal holiday(s) and the approval is later canceled by the County. In such instances, with the recommendation of the appointing authority, the Human Resources Director may authorize the personal holiday(s) to be used within the month of January during the following calendar year. A personal holiday carried forward in such manner may not be compensated in any form upon the separation of employment.
Regular full-time and regular part-time employees hired on January 1 or the first work day following January 1 shall accrue and be eligible to use paid personal holidays during that year. Employees hired after the first work day of the year shall not be eligible to accrue or use paid personal holidays during that year..
Section 9.3.	Part-time employees regularly scheduled to work one half a normal workweek or more shall be eligible for a pro-rata portion of holiday pay based on their standard hours per week divided by five, provided they are compensated at least seventy (70) percent of their standard work week.
ARTICLE 10	- SICK LEAVE
Section 10.1.	Regularly scheduled full-time employees shall earn sick leave on the basis of one day for each month compensated, excluding overtime and standby pay with no upper limit. Part-time employees regularly scheduled to work one half a normal workweek or more shall eam a pro-rata portion of sick leave based on hours compensated excluding overtime and standby pay, provided they are compensated at least seventy percent (70%) of their standard work hours per cycle. Sick
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 14 of 28 '
2009-483cba.doc
leave shall be earned and accrued upon the completion of each accruable pay cycle. Sick leave will not be payable to new eligible employees until they have completed thirteen (13) accruable pay cycles of employment.
Section 10,2	- Permissible Uses of Sick Leave.
A.	Sick leave shall be paid at the employee's regular base hourly rate of pay for the employee’s own needs for the following conditions:
1	.) Bona fide illness or injury which incapacitates the employee from performing nonnal duties, or
2	.) Employee’s disability due to pregnancy and recovery therefrom, or
3	.) Medical or dental care of the employee.
B.	Sick leave shall be paid at the employee’s regular straight time base hourly rate of pay for absences required due to bona fide illness or injury to those family members whose principal residence is with the employee. The relatives to whom this section applies include mother, stepmother, father, stepfather, son, stepson, daughter, stepdaughter, brother, stepbrother, sister, stepsister, husband, wife, grandparent, grandchild, foster child, children placed for adoption and like relatives of the employee's spouse. The employer may require a statement including the nature and severity of the illness or injury, relationship to the employee and a statement of need for care or attendance of the employee.
C.	Family Care Leave: Sick leave or other paid leave as chosen by the employee shall be paid at the employee’s regular straight time base hourly rate of pay, subject to the provisions of this Section regarding sick leave and under the following circumstances:
1	.) Any health condition affecting a covered employee's child under the age of 18 years, or for a child age eighteen (18) or older and incapable of self-care which requires treatment or supervision including:
a.	Medical conditions requiring medication which cannot be self administered;
b.	Medical or mental health conditions which would endanger the child's safety or recovery without the presence of a parent or guardian;
c.	Any condition warranting preventive health care such as physical, dental, optical or immunization services when a parent must be present to authorize;
d.	Any other circumstance which would constitute a permissible use of sick leave for the employee.
2	.) A serious health condition or emergency condition for a spouse, parent, parent-in-law, grandparent of the employee, or children age eighteen (18) or older and incapable of self-care, which requires the employee’s presence. Such leave shall only be approved for the
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 15 of 28
2009-483cba.doc
duration of the condition.
Abuse and misuse of sick leave are grounds for disciplinary action up to and including discharge. The Employer has the right at any time to require the employee provide certification from a physician attesting to illness or injury.
Section 10.3.	In order to qualify for sick leave pay, an employee must report the reason for the absence no later than the beginning of the scheduled working day with notice as soon as feasible of the anticipated date of return to work. A physician's certification stating the kind and nature of an illness or injury and that the employee is incapacitated from work may be required for sick leave in excess of five (5) days. The physician's letter may be required to be updated every week in writing during an extended sick leave.
Section 10.4.	In the instance where an illness or injury qualifies an employee for Workers' Compensation, the Employer will pay only the difference between the employee’s base hourly wage and the amount paid the employee in Workers' Compensation benefits to the extent of accrued unused sick leave during such period of disability.
Section 10.5. Effective January 1, 1983, eligible employees who have completed thirteen (13) accruable pay cycles and who are separated from service due to death, retirement or disability shall be paid for unused accrued sick leave as follows:
1.	Twenty-five percent (25%) of the employee's base hourly rate of pay for the first seventy-five (75) days or less of unused accrued sick leave days.
2.	For the next seventy-five (75) days (seventy-six (76) through one hundred and fifty (150)), an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the employee's base hourly rate of pay for unused accrued sick leave days.
3.	For the next fifty (50) days (one hundred and fifty-one (151) through two hundred (200)), an amount equal to seventy-five percent (75%) of the employee's base hourly rate of pay for unused accrued sick leave days.
In no event shall such compensation exceed two hundred (200) days.
Section 10.6.	Eligible employees are considered to be retired for purposes of sick leave compensation and early retirement for medical insurance when they have met the required qualifications for service retirement under their State of Washington Retirement System and have elected to receive either a lump-sum payment in lieu of retirement or has elected to receive a service or disability retirement benefit.
Section 10.7.	An eligible employee separated from employment in good standing for reasons other
2009-483cba.doc	Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 16 of 28
than death, retirement, or disability shall be compensated at ten percent (10%) of the employee's base hourly rate of pay for unused accrued sick leave days to date of separation not to exceed two hundred (200) days.
Section 10.8 - Sick Leave Incentive Program. Effective January 1, 2008, employees, including employees serving a probationary period for any part of the year, shall be awarded additional vacation leave as follows, whichever is more generous to the employee: If one day or less of sick leave is used in any calendar year, an employee will be awarded two additional days of vacation leave; if two days or less of sick leavers used in any calendar year, an employee will be awarded one' additional day of vacation leave. This program shall be accomplished by the Budget and Finance Department, payroll section, as soon as practicable after the end of the calendar year. Only employees who have been in a pay status for the complete calendar year shall be eligible for this sick leave incentive program.
A complete calendar year shall begin on January 1 and end December 31, and shall include all regularly scheduled workdays for the employee (including observed holidays). In order to qualify as a complete calendar year, an employee must not have been in a leave of absence without pay status for two full work days or longer. New employees must begin work on the first work day in January, exclusive of January 1 (New Year's Day) and up to the next two days if such comprise a "weekend" for the employee's work site, in order to be eligible to have been in a pay status for the complete calendar year.
Section 10.9 All references to “day” in this Article shall refer to the employee’s standard hours per day (weekly hours divided by five), to a maximum of eight hours.
ARTICLE 11 - COMPENSATED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 11.1 - Jury Duty. Time off with pay will be granted for jury duty to regular full-time and part-time employees. The employee shall be paid the difference between the fees received for such service, excluding travel fees, and the amount of actual base earnings lost by reason of such service. In order to be eligible for such payments, the employee must furnish a written statement from the appropriate public official showing the date and time served and the amount of jury pay received. The employee must give the Employer prompt notice of the call for jury duty.
Section 11	.2- Bereavement Leave.
Section 11.2.1 In the event of a death in the immediate family of a regular full-time and part-time employee, three working days off (to a maximum of 24 hours) with pay shall be granted to attend the funeral or complete burial arrangements for each death which occurs during a calendar year. A regular part-time employee shall receive a pro-rata share of bereavement leave based on their standard hours in a workweek. Immediate family shall be defined to include spouse, father, mother, foster parent, brother, sister, child, foster child, grandparent, or grandchild of the
2009-483cba.doc	Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 17 of 28
employee and like relatives of the spouse of the employee. Immediate family includes biological, adopted, step or foster members. An additional three days of bereavement leave maybe granted if authorized by the Department Director or designee in writing if the employee is required to travel out of state to attend the funeral or complete the burial arrangements.
Section 11.2.2 Authorized use of the additional bereavement leave in Article 11.2.1 for out-of-state travel may be taken from either the employee's accrued sick leave balance or from the employee's accrued vacation leave balance, accrued compensatory time, or accrued personal holiday at the employee's option. Additional sick leave may be used in conjunction with the death of an immediate family member if qualifying under current sick leave provisions.
Section 11.3 - Reserve Military Leaves. Such leave of absence shall be granted as provided in RCW 3 8.40.060, for periods of active duty or active training duty, including weekend drills, not exceeding a total of twenty-one (21) workdays during each year beginning October 1s' and ending the following September 30th, provided the request for such leave is in writing and accompanied by a validated copy of military orders. Employees entering military service for more than twenty-one (21) days, who have requested leave as prescribed above, shall be granted leave as provided by applicable state and federal statutes. Such leave will be in addition to any vacation leave to which an employee might otherwise be entitled.
The above total of twenty-one (21) workdays will be applied only to days on which the employee is scheduled to work for the County and shall not be applied to scheduled days off.
ARTICLE 12	- UNPAID LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 12.1 - Process. A leave of absence without pay may be granted after completion of one year of service and approval of the elected official, operations manager, or designee up to a maximum of thirty (30) days. Leaves of absence over thirty (30) days and up to one year maybe granted with the approval of the Department Head and Human Resources Director.
Section 12.2 - Effect on Work. All leaves without pay result in a loss of accrual for seniority, vacation, sick leave, and other benefits when an employee is in a non-pay status over thirty percent (30%) of any pay cycle. The employee has the option of paying their own medical benefit cost while in an unpaid leave status to insure continued coverage.
All leaves without pay are to be requested from the Employer in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the date such leave would commence unless an emergency situation precludes such notice. The written request for leave of absence by the employee shall state the following information:
a.	Reason for requesting the leave.
b.	Date leave is to begin.
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 18 of28
2009-483cba.doc
c.	Date of return to work.
Failure of an employee to return from a leave of absence within the time interval approved will be subject to termination. In the event the employee is unable to return to work on the date specified due to verifiable illness or injury and has so advised the Employer prior to the ending date of the approved leave, the Employer will review the circumstances on an individual case basis upon verification by a physician of the illness or injury. Due to emergency situations, unpaid leaves of absence may be extended with approval of the Human Resources Director or designee.
Section 12.3 - Effect on Benefits. Leaves of absence without pay shall result in the discontinuance of benefits (accrual of sick leave, vacation, payment of insurance premiums, etc.) for the period of the leave and the employee's anniversary date will be adjusted accordingly. If an unpaid leave of absence is necessary for medical reasons caused by an on-the-job injury, the Employer will pay the cost of medical benefits (Article 13) for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months.
Section 12.4 - Unpaid Leave for Maternity Reasons. Maternity leaves granted in compliance with WAC 162-30 for sickness or disability may extend up to sixty (60) days after the birth of the infant, and if for more than sixty (60) days, shall require filing a physician's certificate stating the need for additional leave due to said sickness or disability, unless the Operations Manager or elected official agrees in writing to a longer period of unpaid leave.
Section 12.5 - Military Leave - Active Duty. An employee who volunteers or is inducted or is recalled into active military duty shall be considered on a leave of absence without pay for a period of such service as required by law. An employee requesting reemployment after honorable discharge or separation from such military service, within the time frame required by the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA), shall be reinstated and restored, as nearly as existing circumstances permit and the employee's current qualifications allow, to the position previously held with eligibility for past experience credit(s) as provided by law.
ARTICLE 13	- GROUP INSURANCE: MEDICAL/DENTAL/LIFE
Section 1, Medical Plans The employer will pay a maximum of $ 1012.98 per month for eligible full-time employees and their dependents for negotiated medical, vision and prescription drug benefits for the period January 1,2009 through December 31,2009. Eligible full-time employees may not opt out of these insurance benefits.
•	For the Regence Selections Plan, the maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $1009.19
•	For the Regence Preferred Plan, the entire monthly premium shall be $1089.20. The maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $1012.98 and the employee shall
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 19 of 28
pay the remaining amount of $76.22 per month through payroll deduction.
•	For the Regence FourFront Plan, the maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $961.27.
•	For the Group Health Plan, the maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $857.92
Section 2.Dental Plans The employer will pay a maximum of $ 144.42 per month for eligible fulltime employees and their dependents for dental benefits for the period January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009.
•	For the Washington Dental Service Plan, the maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $144.42.
•	For the Willamette Dental of Washington Plan, the maximum monthly premium paid by the County shall be $99.15.
Section 3.	Life Insurance The employer will pay a maximum monthly life insurance premium of $ 1.73 for $ 15,000 of group term life insurance for eligible full-time employees for the period January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009.
Section 4.	For calendar year 2010, the parties agree to reopen negotiations on overall plan design and level of contribution by the parties, provided an agreement cannot be reached as part of the calendar year 2009 negotiations.
Section 5.	For calendar year 2011, the parties agree to reopen negotiations on overall plan design and level of contribution by the parties, provided an agreement cannot be reached as part of the calendar year 2010 negotiations.
Section 6.	The Employer will pay a pro-rata share of medical, dental and life insurance premium costs for regular part-time employees regularly scheduled to work one-half the normal workweek or more based upon the ratio of their standard hours to full-time hours for those employees who elect coverage. Regular part-time employees who choose the Regence Preferred Plan shall pay the excess premium above $1012.98 per month in addition to their pro-rata share of the County’s premium. Part-time employees who do not elect coverage will not receive any pay in lieu of the premium payments.
Section 7.	Regular part-time employees and employees on authorized leaves of absence without pay shall be permitted to select the health benefit coverage of their choice, at the employees’ expense, i.e. health insurance, dental insurance and/or life insurance. Employees on authorized leaves of absence without pay who elect not to retain any coverage during the period of the leave of absence shall be
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 20 of 28
required to serve any plan-required waiting period upon re-enrollment. Employees on approved leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, as amended, shall be provided benefit continuation in accordance with the provisions of that Act.
Section 8. The Employer will provide a flexible spending account plan under Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code effective at the start of the first pay period beginning on or after January 1, 2009 and continuing for the duration of the agreement. The Employer shall pay any administrative premium or cost of the plan for the duration of the agreement. All plan contributions will be at the option of the employee within the limitations of the plan and at the employee's expense.
ARTICLE 14	- RETIREMENT
All eligible employees shall be covered under the Washington State Public Employees' Retirement System.
ARTICLE 15	- WORKERS' COMPENSATION
The Employer will provide Washington State Workers' Compensation or equivalent to all employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 16	- GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Section 16.1 - Definition. A grievance shall be defined as a management interpretation or application of the provisions of this agreement which adversely affects an employee's wages, hours or conditions of employment and is contrary to the terms of this Agreement. Grievances arising from the terms of this Agreement relating to any suspension of more than twenty (20) working days, reduction in rank or pay or dismissal for cause may be appealed either through this grievance procedure or to the County's Personnel Board at the employee's option but may not be appealed through both avenues for relief.
Section 16.2 - Procedure. If a decision is not returned to the Union within the time limits specified in each step below, the employee may, after the time limit has passed, present the grievance to the County representative specified in the next step of the procedure. Grievances and appeals must be filed within the time limits specified below. If a grievance is not presented or if an appeal of a decision rendered regarding the grievance/appeal is not filed within the time limits, the grievance/appeal shall be considered resolved.
Sten 1. The grievance shall be filed by the employee or shop steward with the employee's immediate supervisor within ten (10) working days of the occurrence which gave rise to the grievance or when the employee or Union should have reasonably had first knowledge of the grievance. Such grievance shall be filed on a standard County grievance form, shall set forth the specific contract provisions alleged to have been violated and include the proposed remedy.
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page21 of 28
Within five (5) working days of receipt of the written grievance, the supervisor shall meet with the employee. Within five (5) working days thereafter, a written decision shall be given to the employee.
Step 2. If a grievance is not settled at Step 1, it may be presented to the Department Director or designee. The grievance shall be submitted within five (5) working days after receipt of the decision at Step 1 or the expiration of the time limits, whichever is earlier. Such appeal shall be written on a standard County grievance form, shall set forth the specific contract provisions alleged to have been violated, the reason for dissatisfaction and include the proposed remedy. Within five (5) working days of receipt of the written grievance, the Department Director or designee, shall meet with the employee and/or representative. Within five (5) working days thereafter, a written decision shall be given to the grievant or representative.
Step 3. If the grievance is not settled at Step 2, it may be presented to the County Executive or Labor Relations Designee. The grievance shall be submitted within five (5) working days after receipt of the decision at Step 2 or the expiration of the time limits, whichever is earlier. Such appeal shall be written on a standard County grievance form, shall set forth the specific contract provision alleged to have been violated, the reason for dissatisfaction and include the proposed remedy. Within ten (10) working days of receipt of the written grievance, the County Executive or Labor Relations Designee, shall meet with the employee and/or representative. Within ten (10) working days thereafter, a written decision shall be given to the grievant or representative.
Letters of reprimand are only subject to steps one, two and three of the grievance procedure contained herein.
Step 4. If a grievance is not resolved under Step 3, an arbitration request may be submitted by the Union Designee. Such request shall be presented in writing to the County Executive or Labor Relations Designee within five (5) calendar days from the date the decision was rendered at Step 3. As soon as practicable thereafter, or as otherwise agreed to by the parties, an arbitrator shall hear the grievance. In the event the parties cannot agree on a selection of an arbitrator within ten (10) working days from the receipt of the request for arbitration, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, the American Arbitration Association or some other agreed upon source shall be requested to submit a list of eleven (11) arbitrators from which the arbitrator shall be selected by alternately striking one (1) name from the list until only one (1) name shall remain. The decision of the arbitrator shall be rendered as expeditiously as possible and shall be final and binding upon both parties. Any decision rendered shall be within the scope of this Agreement and shall not add to or subtract from any of the terms of the Agreement. The arbitrator shall confine himself/herself to the precise issue(s) submitted for arbitration and shall have no authority to determine other issues not so submitted. Only signatures to this Agreement may refer an item to arbitration.
Section 16.3.	The cost and expense of the employment of the impartial arbitrator mentioned above
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 22 of 28
shall be borne equally by the parties hereto. Each side shall bear its own expense and fees incumbent in presenting their respective case to the arbitrator including attorney fees.
The time limits set forth above may be extended by mutual agreement of the Employer and the Union.
Section 16.4.	The grievance and arbitration procedures provided for herein shall constitute the sole and exclusive method of adjusting all complaints or disputes which the Union or employees may have and which relate to or concern the employees and the Employer. In alleged discrimination issues (see Section 2.1), an employee shall elect to apply the grievance procedure or other forums, but not both.
Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the parties from mutually agreeing to resolve any grievance. No grievance shall be resolved without the concurrence of the County Executive or Labor Relations Designee.
Section 16,5.	If any two (2) or more employees have essentially the same grievance they may collectively present and pursue their grievance(s).
ARTICLE 17	- EMPLOYEE RIGHTS
Any employee in the Bargaining Unit, when being questioned in a pre-disciplinary meeting about matters which may result in discipline, suspension, demotion, and/or termination, has the right to have a choice of union shop steward or union representative present within a reasonable length of time.
ARTICLE 18	- NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
Section 18.1. There shall be no work stoppages, slow down, boycott, sympathy strike, refusal to cross a picket line, or lockout for any reason regardless of whether the action of either party may be reasonably concluded as a violation of this Agreement or any law, policy or regulation during the life of this Agreement.
Section 18.2, Employees who refuse to cross a legal, primary picket line as recognized by the Union, which is directed at other than County facilities shall not constitute a violation of this Agreement and shall not be cause for discharge or disciplinary action; provided, however, that such decision shall be made freely by such employees without coercion by either the Employer or the Union. Nothing in this paragraph, 18.2, shall be construed to preclude the Employer from continuing to maintain and operate County functions with or without replacement personnel. Employees will be required to work and cross a primary picket line as described in this paragraph, 18.2, when deemed necessary by the County to assure public health and safety.
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 23 of 28
2009-483cba.doc
ARTICLE 19	- SUBCONTRACTING
The Employer will notify the Union in accordance with applicable labor laws in advance of the implementation of the subcontracting out of Bargaining Unit work which would result in the termination or layoff of a major segment of the Bargaining Unit employees.
ARTICLE 20	- SAVINGS
Should any provision of this Agreement be rendered invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation shall not invalidate the remaining portions of this Agreement, and the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect. The parties agree to meet and discuss whether by mutual consent such invalid provision should be amended or replaced.
ARTICLE 21	- SAFETY AND SANITATION
The County agrees to provide a clean and sanitary work environment and comply with all applicable state and federal laws to ensure worker safety.
ARTICLE 22	- MATTERS COVERED AND COMPLETE AGREEMENT
Section 22.1.	All matters not specifically covered in this Agreement shall be deemed to have been raised and disposed of as if specifically covered herein. It is agreed that this document contains the full and complete agreement on all bargainable issues between the parties hereto and for all for whose benefit this Agreement is made, and no party shall be required during the term of this Agreement to negotiate or bargain upon any issue.
Section 22.2.	The failure of the Union to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement or exercise any rights granted by law or the failure of the Employer to exercise any rights reserved to it or its exercise of any such ri girt in a peculiar way shall not be deemed a waiver of such right or a waiver of its authority to exercise any such right in some other way not in conflict with this Agreement.
ARTICLE 23	- TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 23.1. This Agreement shall be retroactive to January 01, 2009, for all employees who are currently on the Employer’s payroll as of the date this Agreement was ratified by employees and for those employees who have retired during the term of this Agreement, but excluding all others, except for those provisions of the Agreement which have been assigned other effective dates as hereinabove set forth, and shall remain in full force and effect to and including the 31 st day of December, 2011.
Section 23.2. Either party shall file written notice with the other of its desire to amend, modify or
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 24 of 28
terminate this Agreement, pursuant to the provisions of R.C.W. 41.56. The Union shall file such notice with the Director of Human Resources the Employer with the directing business representative. Requests from the Union for changes in wages, fringe benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment shall be submitted to the Director of Human Resources or designee no later than 180 calendar days before expiration of the current agreement. This article is not intended to prevent the Union from submitting additional proposal after the 180 day deadline. However, the Union shall make a good faith effort to provide their proposals by the specified time period. The parties shall establish a deadline for submission of proposals during the collective bargaining process.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement this	day of
,2009.
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF
ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO,
Michael Taft, Labor Relations Analyst 2
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 25 of 28
APPENDIX A
WAGE RATES FOR
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO, LOCAL NO. 483
Represented Job Classifications by Bargaining Unit
934100 Traffic Signal Technician 1 Range 4Q 25
945700 Traffic Signal Technician 2 Range 4Q 26
945800 Traffic Signal Technician 3 Range 4Q 27
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 26 of 28
ADDENDUM 1
PIERCE COUNTY ALCOHOL & CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES TESTING PROGRAM
POST-ACCIDENT/REASONABLE SUSPICION RECORD
PART 2 - REASONABLE SUSPICION CHECKLIST
If an employee is required to undergo a "reasonable suspicion" alcohol and/or controlled substances test, the supervisor must complete this form documenting the behavior which led to the reasonable suspicion. At least one other witness who observed the suspicious behavior must also sign this form,
EMPLOYEE NAME:; SSN: 
DEPARTMENT:__________________________________________________
OBSERVATION DATE:TIME (from a.m. /p.m. to
______a.m./p .m.)
LOCATION:_____________________________________________
(Street)(City)(State)(Zip)
1. Was the employee involved in a workplace mishap or accident in which the employee's condition might have played a role? If yes, please explain:_______________________
2.	Employee's Conduct and Speech (Check all that apply.
□	a. Excessive number of on-the job errors
□	b. Unsteady or uncoordinated movements or walking
□	c. Reckless handling of equipment or materials
□	d. Unusually slow (or rapid) work pace
□	e. Excited or unusually loud speech
□	f. Slurred, confused or fragmented speech
□	g. Slow or unusually soft speech
□	h. Unusually fast driving of mobile equipment
□	i. Unusually hostile, antagonistic or abusive manner
□	j. Apparent inability to focus attention on work
□	k. Unexplained absences from work area
□	1. Unusually frequent trips to restroom, parking lot or other non-work area
□	m. Unusual or unexplained resistance to authority or refusal to follow reasonable directions
□	n. Recent periods of unexplained or unsatisfactorily explained absenteeism
□	o. Unexplained significant deterioration in individual work performance
□	p. Paranoid statements and conduct
□	q. Unusually quiet
□	r. Mood swings
□	s. Illogical behavior
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 27 of 28
Dot06form.doc DISTRIBUTION- ORIGINAL - PERSONNEL; COPY - DEPARTMENT	PART 2 PAGE 1 OF 2
a.
3. Employee's Appearance and Physical Condition (Check all that apply)
□	a. Apparent disorientation or confusion without apparent reason
□	b. Dilated pupils; constricted pupils
□	c. Eyes unusually sensitive to light; eyes bloodshot
□	d. Unusually nervous, jittery, excited or agitated manner
□	e. Complaints of rapid heartbeat or muscle spasm
□	f. Excessive blinking or twitching of eyes
□	g. Unusually talkative
□	h. Apparent drowsiness or partially closed eyelids
□	i. Blank stare or unfocused eyes
□	j. Unexplained itching or scratching
□	k.	Otherwise unexplained nausea or vomiting
□	1.	Shaking or tremor of hands or head
□	m.	Unexplained or unusual sweating on forehead and
		face
□	n.	Breathing or swallowing difficulties
□	0.	Unusually flushed or red complexion
□	p-	Unusually pale or clammy skin
□	q.	Needle marks on arms
□	r.	Unusually frequent sneezing or nasal congestion/
		runny nose
□	s.	Personal grooming deterioration
□	t.	Complaints of symptoms of dry mouth
□	u.	Inappropriate wearing of sunglasses
□	V.	Grating, grinding, clenching of teeth
4.	Other Indications (Check all that apply)
□	a. Odor of alcohol on breath
□	b.	Odor of marijuana on person or in immediate area
□	c.	Presence of drugs, alcohol, drug paraphernalia or alcohol containers on person, in belongings, in locker or near
work area (for example, spent marijuana cigarette, small plastic bags, pill containers, small pipes, or beer bottles)
□	d. Secretive gatherings of small numbers .of employees in such places as restrooms and parking lots
□	e. Reports by reliable sources of suspected drug dealing, usage or influence
□	f. Near-miss accidents where employee negligence or recklessness appears to have been involved
□	g. Apparent or suspected exchanges of money for substances
□	h.	Evidence of theft of company or personal property in particular areas of the plant
□	i.	Reliable evidence that the suspected employee has been arrested or is under investigation for off-the-job drug use
or driving under the influence of alcohol
□	j. Suspected employee's loss of driver's license
5.	Other observed Actions or Behavior (specify):_________________________________________________________________________
	a.m./p.m.
SUPERVISOR SIGNATURE	TITLE	DATE	TIME a.m./p.m.
WITNESS SIGNATURE	TITLE	DATE	TIME
This document must be prepared and signed by a witness within 24 hours of the observed behavior or before the results of the test are released, whichever is earlier (49CFR 382).
Dot06form.doc RIS TRIBU HON ORIGINAL - PERSONNEL. COPY - DEPARTMENT	PART 2 PAGE 2 OF 2
2009-483cba.doc
Exhibit A to Ordinance No. 2009-
Page 28 of 28