HOWARD COUNTY
PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM
County
Education Association
MASTER AGREEMENT
between the
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF HOWARD COUNTY
and the
HOWARD COUNTY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
BEGINNING JULY 1, 2010 and
ENDING JUNE 30, 2013
This is a Three (3) Year Agreement
Revised: June 2012
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF HOWARD COUNTY and the HOWARD COUNTY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE
PAGE(S)
TITLE
1	Recognition	1
2	Negotiation Procedure	1-2
3	Grievance Procedure	2-5
4	Personal and Academic Freedom	5
5	Evaluation	5-7
6	Transfers	7-9
7	Assignment and Reassignment	9-10
8	Promotional Vacancies	10
9	Classroom Control	10-11
10	Protection of Teachers	11-13
11	Limit of Duties	13
12	Personnel Employment	13-17
13	Reimbursement	17-18
14	Association Rights and Privileges	18-20
15	Sick and Bereavement Leave	20-21
16	Temporary Leave of Absence	21-22
17	Extended Leaves of Absence	22-24
18	Working Hours and Work Load	24-26
19	Teaching Conditions	26-28
20	Salary Schedules	29-36
21	Deductions from Salary	37-38
22	Insurance Protection	38-45
23	Sick Leave Bank	46
24	General	47
25	Representation Fee	48-51
26	Duration	52
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION
A.	The Board recognizes the Association as the exclusive bargaining agent for all non-supervisory certificated professional employees of the Howard County Public Schools with regard to all matters relating to salaries, wages, hours, and other working conditions. The Superintendent of Schools and the members designated by the Board to act as its representatives in negotiations are excluded. This recognition is in accordance with the provisions specified in Section 6-401, et seq., Education Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland.
B.	For the purpose of this Agreement, the term “teacher,” when used hereafter, shall refer to
all professional non-supervisory certificated employees represented by the Howard County Education Association. The term “Association” shall refer to the Howard County Education Association; the term “Board” shall refer to the Board of Education of Howard County.
ARTICLE 2
NEGOTIATION PROCEDURE
A.	Both parties agree to negotiate in good faith as prescribed in Section 6-401, et seq., Education Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland. The parties agree to utilize the contents and format of the Agreement in effect as the basis for proposals for negotiation in the new Agreement. This is understood to mean that:
1.	Items in the existing Agreement which remain satisfactory to both parties would
be continued as part of the new Agreement.
2.	Items in the existing Agreement which are believed in need of change, deletion,
or addition by either party may be the subjects of new proposals for negotiation.
3.	Items not included in the existing Agreement but believed desirable for
consideration in the new Agreement by either party may be proposed as additions to the existing Agreement.
Every effort will be made to begin negotiations on a date mutually agreed upon but no later than January 10. All issues proposed for negotiations shall be detailed in writing and submitted by the Association to the Board or its delegated representatives not later than the first negotiating session. The Board shall submit in writing to the teacher representatives all additional issues upon which it wishes to negotiate no later than the first negotiating session.
B.	Neither party shall have any control over the selection of consultants or negotiation representatives of the other party.
C.	Negotiation sessions shall be closed meetings held as frequently as necessary, at a time other than the regular school day for students, to complete the negotiations by the stated completion date.
1
D.	If upon the request of either party the State Superintendent of Schools determines from the facts that an impasse is reached in negotiations between a public school employer and an employee organization designated as an exclusive negotiating agent, the assistance and advice of the State Board of Education may be requested, with the consent of both parties. In the absence of such consent, upon the request of either party, a panel shall be named to aid in the resolution of differences. Such panel shall contain three persons, one to be appointed by each party within three (3) days, and the third to be selected by the other two within ten (10) days from the date of said request. If the parties are unable to agree upon a third panel member or obtain a commitment to serve within a specified period, a request for a list of possible panel members may be made to the American Arbitration Association by either party. The parties will then be bound by the rules and procedures of the American Arbitration Association in the selection of the third panel member. The State Board of Education, or the panel selected, shall meet with the parties to aid in the resolution of differences and, if the matter is not otherwise resolved, shall make a written report and recommendations within thirty (30) days from the date of said request. Copies of such report shall be sent to representatives of both the public school employer and the employee organization. All costs of mediation shall be shared by the public school employer and the employee organization.
ARTICLE 3 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	Purpose and Definition
1.	Purpose - The purpose of this procedure is to secure an equitable solution to a
grievance at the lowest possible level. Nothing contained herein will be construed as limiting the right of any teacher to have a complaint adjusted without the assistance of the Association.
2.	Definitions
a.	Grievance - Any complaint by a teacher that cannot be settled orally
concerning the interpretation or alleged violation of an express provision(s) of this agreement.
b.	Grievant - A teacher, class, or group of teachers filing a grievance.
c.	Association - the Association filing a grievance.
B.	Procedures
1.	A grievance, including a class grievance and an association grievance, shall be
presented in writing on the prescribed form and shall contain at least the following:
a.	Name(s) and position(s) of the grievant(s).
b.	A statement of the grievance and the facts involved, including relevant
dates.
c.	A reference to the express provision(s) of this Agreement allegedly
misapplied, violated, or misinterpreted.
2
d.	The corrective action requested.
e.	Signature(s) of the grievant(s).
2.	The Superintendent/designee shall inform the Association in writing within ten
days of any grievance that is filed.
3.	A grievance shall be presented in the following steps:
Step 1:	Between the grievant and his/her representative, and/or the
Association, at the request of the grievant, and the employee’s immediate supervisor and/or his/her designated representative
Step 2:	Between the grievant and his/her Association representative, and
the Superintendent and/or his/her designated representatives
Step 3:	Submitted to binding arbitration. Grievances filed by the
Association are not subject to binding arbitration unless covering Article 14, Association Rights and Privileges.
4.	Any grievance shall be presented at Step 1 in writing, signed by the grievant,
within twenty (20) school days from the date of its occurrence, or the date when the grievant knew or should have known of its occurrence. The Administrator’s answer at each Step shall be given in writing within seven (7) school days after each step meeting, which shall be held within seven (7) school days following receipt of appeal. Unless a grievance is appealed to the next step within seven (7) school days of the Administrator’s answer, it shall be deemed settled in accordance with the Administrator’s answer, which shall be considered acceptable to the grievant and the Association.
5.	a.	In the event the grievant and the Association are not satisfied with the
disposition of a grievance at Step Two (2), the Association may vote within 30 days of the Step Two (2) decision to submit the grievance to binding arbitration under the Voluntary Labor Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. The parties further agree to accept the arbitrator’s award as final and binding upon them. Grievances filed by the Association are not subject to binding arbitration, unless covering Article 14, Association Rights and Privileges.
b.	The jurisdiction and authority of the arbitrator and any opinion or award
shall be confined to the express provision(s) of this Agreement at issue between the Association and the Board. The arbitrator shall not add to, alter, detract from, amend, or modify any provision(s) of this Agreement.
c.	After the Board is advised by the Association of a decision to submit a
grievance to binding arbitration under paragraph 5.a, the Board and the Association may within 15 school days agree to a pre-arbitration conference as set forth in paragraph 6.
6.	a.	The pre-arbitration conference shall be held with representatives of the
Board, the Association, and the Grievant, at his/her option, for the express purposes of settlement. During this conference both parties shall present
3
exhibits, stipulate all possible facts of the case and agree to the authenticity of all documents.
b.	If a pre-arbitration conference is held without the presence or participation
of the Grievant, the Association shall have full authority to act on behalf of the Grievant.
c.	Either the HCEA Board of Directors or the Board may submit a summary
statement detailing their position to be shared with the other Board prior to a final vote on proceeding to arbitration.
C.	Miscellaneous
1.	“Days” shall mean working school days.
2.	Failure at any step of this procedure to communicate the decision on a grievance
within the specified time limits shall permit the aggrieved party to proceed to the next step.
3.	To avoid any dispute in determining compliance with the specified time limits,
the day on which a written grievance, appeal, or notice of hearing is received shall not be included in determining the limitation period. All written grievance notices or appeals are deemed to have been received on the day after the date of postmark, if mailed, or on date stamped or recorded thereon by a school official, who shall initial the same, if hand delivered.
4.	The time limits in any step of this procedure may be extended or reduced in any
specific instance by mutual agreement between the aggrieved party and/or his/her representative and the Superintendent/designee.
This procedure will be pursued should the grievant become incapacitated or, if left unresolved until the next school year, could result in irreparable harm to a party in interest.
5.	If a grievance affects a group or class of teachers, involving two or more teachers,
the Association may submit such grievance in writing to the Superintendent directly, and the processing of such grievance shall be commenced at Step Two (2).
6.	Both parties agree that grievance proceedings will be kept confidential at all
levels.
7.	Documents, communications, and records initiated during and related to the
processing of a grievance shall be filed in a separate grievance file. A settled grievance that relates to a salary adjustment may be referred to in the personnel file of the grievant(s).
8.	Arbitration hearings will be scheduled to commence at 10:00 a.m., when no more
than three (3) employees of the Board of Education of Howard County (including the Grievant and/or Grievants) are required by the Association to testify. In any case in which the Association will require the attendance of more than three (3)
4
employees, the hearing will be scheduled to commence at 3:00 p.m. If the parties mutually agree, the hearing may commence at an earlier or later time.
ARTICLE 4
PERSONAL AND ACADEMIC FREEDOM
A.	The personal life of a teacher shall be the concern of and warrant the review and appropriate action of the Board only:
1.	As it may prevent the teacher from performing his/her assigned functions during
school duty hours;
2.	As it may be in violation of local, state, national, or common law.
B.	Each teacher will be entitled to full rights of citizenship, and no religious or political
activities of any such teacher or the lack thereof will be grounds for any discipline or discrimination with respect to the professional employment of such person provided they do not affect his/her classroom performance.
C.	The Board and the Association agree that academic freedom is essential to the fulfillment
of the purposes of the Howard County School System, and they acknowledge the fundamental need to protect teachers from any censorship or restraint which might interfere with their obligation to pursue the truth in the performance of their teaching functions. They agree that subject to curriculum guidelines and appropriate supervision, the responsibility for teaching all appropriate material rests with the teacher.
D.	No student’s grade shall be changed without a conference between the student’s teacher and the administrator. After the conference, the teacher will be notified, in writing, of the administrator’s decision. In the event the student’s teacher is not available for a conference, the administrator will notify the teacher in writing of any changes in a grade.
ARTICLE 5
EVALUATION
A.	Nontenured teachers shall be observed and receive written observation reports at least four (4) times during the school year, twice during the first semester and twice during the second semester by their principal, assistant principal, or any other certificated central office personnel as approved by the Superintendent/designee. Teachers shall be informed, in writing, if they will be formally evaluated that year. Support received from resource teachers, new teacher mentors, discipline-specific support teachers and any other teacherlevel position will be solely for the purpose of helping the teacher improve.
B.	1.	In an evaluation year and with the school principal’s approval, tenured teachers
may select a “differentiated supervision” option. The options include:
•	Peer coaching
•	Professional portfolio
•	Cooperative program review
5
2	.	In an evaluation year tenured teachers not on salary scale B shall be observed and
receive written observation reports by the above-mentioned personnel at least twice a year, once during the first semester and once during the second semester.
C.	1.	Tenured school psychologists and pupil personnel workers shall be informed, in
writing, if they will be formally evaluated that year. In an evaluation year and with the approval of their final evaluator, tenured school psychologists and pupil personnel workers may select a "differentiated supervision" option. The options include:
•	Peer Coaching
•	Professional Portfolio
2.	In an evaluation year tenured school psychologists and pupil personnel workers
shall be observed and receive written observation reports by the above-mentioned personnel at least once during the first semester and once during the second semester.
D.	Written comments shall be made concerning any observation of the teacher’s work performance. The teacher shall receive a duplicate copy of said observation within five (5) school days after it is made. A post-observation conference shall be held at the request of the teacher or observer. A teacher receiving an unsatisfactory observation shall receive a written explanation of the reasons for the unsatisfactory observation and recommendations for improvement.
E.	All monitoring or observation of the work performance of the teacher shall be conducted openly and with full knowledge of the teacher.
F.	1.	All teachers shall complete annually, in consultation with the administrator, the
Professional Development and Evaluation Objective Form. Objectives are approved by the administrator and finalized by September 30 of each year. A teacher shall be notified of any revisions within five (5) working days. Changes will not be made after the last student day of the first semester except under extenuating conditions.
2.	A non-tenured teacher (SPCI, SPCII, APC) shall be evaluated at least once each
semester using the Teacher Evaluation Form.
3.	A tenured teacher with a Standard Professional Certificate I (3rd year) shall be
evaluated at least annually using the Teacher Evaluation Form.
4.	A teacher with a Standard Professional Certificate II (up to 7 years) shall be
evaluated at least annually using the Teacher Evaluation Form and the Alternate Year Evaluation Form in alternating years. If there is unsatisfactory performance, the teacher will be evaluated at least annually using the Teacher Evaluation Form.
5.	A teacher with an Advanced Professional Certificate-APC (5 years) shall be
evaluated at least three years within a five-year period. Formal evaluation shall be in the initial year of certification and one other year using the Teacher Evaluation Form. The Alternate Year Evaluation Form may be used for the third evaluation. If there is unsatisfactory performance, the teacher will be evaluated at least annually using the Teacher Evaluation Form.
6
6.	A conference shall be held with the teacher as part of the evaluation process.
G.	The final evaluation shall be completed and a copy given to the teacher evaluated prior to the end of the school year. Teachers shall be given a copy of any evaluation report prepared by their evaluators within five (5) school days after it is completed, but not later than the last duty day for ten-month teachers.
H.	No such evaluation report will be submitted to the Office of Human Resources of the Department of Education, placed in the teacher’s file, or otherwise acted upon without a prior conference with the teacher.
I.	Teachers shall have the right, upon request, to review the contents of their personnel file,
maintained by the Office of Human Resources, in the presence of a Human Resources administrative staff member, and to receive copies at Board expense of any documents contained therein which are not available from the original source or which the teacher had not previously received. A teacher shall be entitled to have a representative(s) accompany him/her during such review. The Board will protect the confidentiality of personal references, academic credentials, and other similar documents.
J.	No material derogatory to a teacher’s conduct, service, character, or personality will be
placed in his/her personnel file, maintained by the Office of Human Resources, unless the teacher has had an opportunity to review such material by affixing his/her signature to the copy to be filed with the express understanding that such signature in no way indicates agreement with the contents thereof. He/she will also have the right to submit a written answer to such material and his/her answer will be reviewed by the appropriate administrator and attached to the file copy.
K.	Any complaints regarding a teacher made to any member of the administration by any parent, student, or other person which are used in any manner in evaluating such teacher will be promptly investigated and called to his/her attention unless the investigation is conducted by a law enforcement, social services, or other similar agency.
L.	Upon request of the teacher, a curriculum staff/central office specialist shall jointly plan,
implement and assess the classroom teaching techniques or procedures in question. Further teaching demonstrations by the above mentioned personnel may be conducted at the discretion of his/her immediate director.
M.	No teacher will be disciplined or reprimanded without cause.
N.	Neither teacher nor student proficiency tests shall be the sole criterion used in the retention, evaluation, or promotion of teachers.
ARTICLE 6
TRANSFERS
A.	Voluntary Transfers - a voluntary request by a teacher for a change in assignment to a different school(s)
7
1.	Teachers who desire to transfer to another building may file a voluntary transfer
request by April 1 of such desire with the Superintendent or his/her designee who shall notify the immediate supervisor of such request. Such statement will include the grade and/or subject to which the teacher desires to be assigned and the school or schools to which he/she desires to be transferred, in order of preference.
2.	a. Principals receiving voluntary transfer requests shall acknowledge receipt of
the request for transfer.
b. If the teacher’s request for transfer is denied, he/she will, upon request, receive a written explanation of the reasons therefore from the Superintendent or his/her designee.
3.	An applicant for transfer shall assume that he/she will continue in his/her present
position until such time as he/she is notified, in writing, that his/her transfer has been granted; said notification shall be from the Superintendent or his/her designee.
4.	Voluntary transfers for teachers for the ensuing year will not be processed after
August 1, except for extenuating reasons.
5.	A teacher must accept the voluntary transfer unless the request is withdrawn, in
writing, prior to August 1.
B.	Involuntary Transfers - an involuntary change in a teacher’s assignment to a different
school(s) due to student enrollment, program, or redistricting changes
1.	Procedures
a.	Volunteers from among those affected by the need for transfers will be
given first consideration for transfer.
b.	Notice of transfer shall be given to the teacher when possible at least ten
(10)	days prior to the date of change in August and September and thirty (30) days prior to the date of change during the remainder of the year. Teachers who are involuntarily transferred after the start of the student year shall be provided two (2) days of unassigned class time to prepare for the transfer.
c.	An involuntary transfer will be made only after a meeting between the
teacher involved and the appropriate administrator, at which time the teacher will be notified in writing, upon request, of the reason or reasons. In the event that a teacher objects to the transfer at this meeting, upon his/her request, the Superintendent or his/her representative will meet with him/her.
d.	A list of any open positions identified by field or qualification will be
made available to all teachers being involuntarily transferred. Positions filled by long-term substitutes shall be considered vacancies for the purpose of transfers. An involuntarily transferred teacher will be
8
considered for returning to his/her original position and school if and when said position becomes vacant during the following school year.
e.	Teachers returning from leave granted under Article XVII, Sections A, B,
and D, and teachers who are involuntarily transferred will be placed ahead of 1) teachers returning from an approved leave of absence; 2) teachers requesting a voluntary transfer (except in situations where placement has already occurred before surplus teachers have been designated); and 3) persons newly hired.
2.	Notice
a.	The Superintendent/designee will consider the following in determining
involuntary transfers:
(1)	Teacher’s area of competence
(2)	Length of service in the Howard County Public School System
(3)	The number of times a teacher has been involuntarily transferred
and how recently the involuntary transfers were made
(4)	Other relevant factors including, among other things, state and/or federal laws, rules, regulations, or administrative directives
C.	Administrative Transfers
Whenever possible, and in general, initial notification on the part of the principal to the teacher he/she will be recommending for administrative transfer should occur no later than February 15. This will allow a teacher so notified to apply for a voluntary transfer under the provisions of the Negotiated Agreement if he/she is interested in doing so.
ARTICLE 7
ASSIGNMENT AND REASSIGNMENT
A.	Assignment - annual designation of a position involving grade(s) and/or subject(s) within a school
1.	Consideration shall be given to new and nontenured teachers in making
assignments, recognizing their lack of experience.
2.	In arranging schedules for teachers who are assigned to more than one school,
every effort will be made to limit the amount of interschool travel. Adequate travel time shall be allowed for teachers who are required to report to another school during the school day. Travel time shall be exclusive of lunch and planning.
3.	All teachers will be given written notice of their salary schedules, class and/or
subject assignments, and building assignments three (3) working days prior to July 15th. All teachers will be given written notice of their sick leave, annual
9
leave, and personal leave accumulated for the forthcoming year not later than July 30, except in cases of emergency.
B.	Reassignment - a change in assignment within a school during the school year
1.	After a teacher has been assigned for the school year, it may be necessary to make
a reassignment. Changes in grade assignment in the elementary schools and in subject assignments in the secondary schools will be voluntary except in cases of emergency. Notice of reassignment shall be given to the teacher when possible at least ten (10) days prior to the date of change in August and September and twenty (20) days prior to the date of change during the remainder of the year.
2.	Reassignment will be made only after a meeting between the teacher involved and
the appropriate administrator, at which time the teacher will be notified in writing, upon request, of the reason or reasons. In the event that a teacher objects to the reassignment at this meeting, upon his/her request, the Superintendent or his/her representative will meet with him/her.
3.	Any elementary school teacher reassigned to another grade level after the start of
the student year will receive one day of unassigned time to prepare for the new assignment.
4.	In reassigning teachers, items in VII.A.1 and A.2 will be considered.
ARTICLE 8
PROMOTIONAL VACANCIES
A.	Announcements of Vacancies: Announcements of vacancies shall be posted on the faculty bulletin boards, published by circular to the staff, and sent to the Howard County Education Association office. Announcements must be distributed at least fifteen (15) calendar days (exclusive of Board designated holidays) before the closing dates for accepting applications.
B.	Submission of Application: Candidates must submit a letter of application to the
appropriate office designated in the advertised vacancy.
ARTICLE 9 CLASSROOM CONTROL
A.	Classroom Control
1.	When, in the judgment of a teacher, a student is by his/her behavior seriously
disrupting a school activity or instructional program to the detriment of other students, the teacher may temporarily, with notification to the principal, exclude the student from the activity and/or program and refer him/her to the principal or other school-level disciplinary program(s) designed to assist such student(s).
10
2.	Except when necessary to fulfill other normal student responsibilities, the student
shall not return to the classroom activity, program, or area where such disruption had taken place until the teacher is satisfied that proper remedial action has been taken or until the teacher has had a formal conference with and a written and/or verbal reply from the principal or assistant principal.
3.	The “Student Code of Conduct” shall be considered by the school administrator
in reviewing individual student disciplinary actions. The final school building level authority for student disciplinary action is the school principal.
B.	Physical or Verbal Abuse
1.	Any teacher threatened with physical abuse or who is physically abused in
connection with his/her employment shall immediately report the incident in writing to his/her immediate supervisor.
2.	Incidents involving verbal abuse shall be reported in a similar manner.
3.	The teacher may request a conference with the Superintendent or his/her
representative to discuss such an incident or the corrective action taken.
C.	All schools shall have a two-way communications system in which a teacher can initiate calls to the school office. Schools presently without such systems shall have them included in their renovation plans.
D.	Administrative Responsibility for Student Disciplinary Procedures
1.	The principal of each school will be responsible for the development of an
appropriate student disciplinary procedure with the involvement of all members of the faculty and administration.
2.	It shall be the principal’s responsibility to inform, in writing, the faculty and staff
of the school disciplinary procedure. This shall occur by the end of the first student week of school.
E.	The initial responsibility for pupil behavior, safety, and control rests with the classroom
teacher. The Board will provide all teachers with a policy of discipline as based on Maryland School Laws.
ARTICLE 10
PROTECTION OF TEACHERS
A.	The parties agree that they shall give support to the discipline procedures and policies of the Board and the items related to student discipline in this Agreement. The administration and the teachers recognize a mutual responsibility for the enforcement of such policies. It is also agreed that such policies will be enforced fairly and consistently without favoritism due to race, creed, color, or sex.
11
B.	Whenever a teacher is absent from school as a result of compensable injury occurring in
the course of his/her employment, he/she will be paid his/her full salary for a period not to exceed 90 days with no loss of fringe benefits, and no part of such absence will be charged to his/her annual or accumulated sick leave. The parties acknowledge that payment of workers’ compensation leave under this section fully satisfies the Board’s obligation to pay temporary total disability benefits under workers’ compensation law so no duplication of benefits may occur during this 90 day period. As such, any workers’ compensation payments made for temporary disability due to said injury and applicable to the aforementioned 90-day period shall be endorsed over to the Board.
If during the 90 day period the employee was granted leave from the sick bank, and it is subsequently determined that the employee was absent as a result of a compensable injury, the Board shall restore any used sick bank leave occurring during the aforementioned 90 day period.
The teacher may apply for an unpaid leave of absence under Article 17 of this Agreement without affecting any benefits which may be due under the workers’ compensation law.
The Board will reimburse teachers for the cost of medical, surgical, or hospital services (as covered under workers’ compensation insurance) incurred as the result of any injury sustained in the course of his/her employment.
C.	In the event of bomb threats against school system property, teachers will not be asked to
search for bombs.
D.	Teachers, with the exception of pupil personnel workers, need not discuss student problems with parents away from the school site.
E.	In case of an assault by a student, or a nonstudent, on school property, including the
school parking lot, on a teacher, causing damage or loss to his/her personal property-such as clothing--the Board shall make an equitable financial adjustment with the teacher for personal property losses not otherwise covered by insurance or restitution.
F.	Any physical assault upon a teacher by a student shall result in suspension of said student
based on an investigation of the incident conducted by the school administrator. Except cases involving students with disabilities, no student shall be returned to class without first providing an opportunity to discuss readmission with the teacher.
G.	No visitor shall be permitted to enter a classroom without approval of the administrator. A teacher will be notified, either orally or in writing, in advance by a school administrator. The teacher may request that the visit be rescheduled based on the instructional needs and the best interests of the students.
H.	The Board shall provide, at the teacher’s request, legal counsel to defend the teacher in an action arising out of an assault on a teacher in the course of the teacher’s professional duties or arising out of any disciplinary action taken by a teacher in accordance with the disciplinary policy of the county.
I.	The teacher shall be informed in advance of the assignment of an instructional assistant
and/or paraprofessional, and such assignment shall not be withdrawn except in case of
12
emergency. The assignment may be withdrawn if the instructional assistant is assigned as a substitute for a teacher for that day only.
J.	Except for students with disabilities, if a student has been apprehended in a plan to cause
serious injury or death to a teacher as determined under the school system’s threat management plan, that student will not be returned to that teacher’s classroom.
ARTICLE 11
LIMIT OF DUTIES
A.	Teachers will continue to carry out such duties that are deemed necessary for the proper operation and function of the school provided that every effort be made by the Board to provide assistance to perform nonprofessional assignments.
B.	Teachers will not be required to perform custodial duties.
C.	Teachers will not be required to deliver books, equipment, or any heavy or bulky
teaching materials to classrooms.
D.	Teachers will not be required to drive pupils to activities which take place away from the school building.
E.	Teachers Secretaries
1.	The Board shall provide one teachers’ secretary for each school to assist teachers in the preparation of materials, correspondence, ordering supplies, and other duties related exclusively to teachers.
2.	Teachers’ work shall have priority over administrative work.
F.	Except in cases of emergency, teachers assigned to more than one school in a day shall
not be assigned non-teaching duties that day.
G.	Teachers shall not be required to supervise student teachers.
H.	Teachers shall not be required to obtain substitutes but may obtain substitutes with the permission of the principal.
I.	Elementary school teachers will not be assigned lunch or recess duty.
ARTICLE 12
PERSONNEL EMPLOYMENT
A.	1.	All new teachers will be placed on the proper step of the salary schedule
according to their certification, experience, and education, but not to exceed
13
Step 18 of the appropriate lane. No presently employed teacher will receive less than the salary indicated on the salary schedule for his/her credited certification, experience, and education.
2.	Credit will be given for previous outside teaching experience in a duly accredited
school, pre-K-12 or any combination of grades within pre-K-12, upon initial employment in accordance with the provisions of the above paragraph.
3.	Occupational therapists, physical therapists, school mental health therapists, and
speech/language pathologists can receive credit for purposes of placement on the salary scale for related professional work experience on a license or teaching certificate. This provision only applies to therapists and pathologists hired beginning in FY06.
4.	In critical shortage areas as determined in advance by the Superintendent’s
designee, teachers may receive credit for purposes of placement on the salary scale for related professional work experience (up to 10 years) in the field in which they are hired to teach. Related professional work experience includes teaching at least 9 credits per semester in the related area at the college/university level. Credit for related professional work experience may only be awarded if the teacher (applicant) was eligible for a Maryland teaching certificate at the time of the professional work experience. This provision only applies to teachers hired beginning in FY08.
5.	Credit not to exceed two (2) years for military experience or alternative civilian
service required by the selective service system and not to exceed two (2) years for Peace Corps, VISTA, or National Teacher Corps work, will be given upon initial employment.
6.	Paraeducators who are or were employed as paraeducators with the Howard
County Public School System will be granted service credit not to exceed ten (10) years for the purpose of placement on the Teachers Salary Scale, if and when they become Howard County teachers. This provision only applies to paraeducators hired beginning in FY08.
B.	Previously accumulated sick leave days will be restored to all teachers who return to
teach in Howard County within two (2) years.
C.	The Superintendent and/or his/her designee shall inform teachers within thirty (30) days
after receipt of changes in state and/or local certification policies.
D.	Reduction in Force
1.	In any reduction of teachers as a result of budgetary actions, curriculum changes,
administrative reorganization, and/or reduction in enrollment, the reductions within the affected area of certification shall be in the following order:
a.	Teachers holding provisional certificates
b.	Nontenured teachers
14
c.	Teachers whose certificate is rated as Class II
d.	Tenured teachers holding a standard professional certificate or an
advanced professional certificate
e.	The determining factors in the layoff of teachers within each of the above
categories will be:
(1)	Certification in the subject area.
(2)	Length of service in the Howard County Public School System
(3)	Ability to teach the appropriate subject area(s)
The presence of these factors shall not be considered an admission regarding the negotiability of such factors.
f.	Seniority Determination
(1)	Seniority shall be determined by the day, month, and year the teacher signed a regular or provisional contract with the Board or the date of a letter of assignment within each of the categories indicated in D.1. (a) of this article.
(2)	In the event the date of the contract or letter of assignment is the same, and other criteria as included in 1.b. above are the same, affected employees will participate in an impartial lottery to determine the teacher to be laid off.
(3)	Approved leaves of absence and leave under Article XVII, Section A, B, or D will neither count toward years of service for seniority purposes nor be considered as a break in service (i.e. a teacher signed a contract on August 0, 1970 and taught through June 30, 1975 in the Howard County Public School System, had three years of maternity leave, and has been teaching continuously in the Howard County Public School System since returning from leave in September 1978, will have ten (10) years of continuous service, thus ten (10) years of seniority on June 30, 1983).
g.	Teachers who are laid off because of reduction in force will be placed on a
priority recall list.
2.	While teachers are on the priority recall list, no new teacher shall be hired except
where:
a.	There are no teachers on the priority recall list certified to fill the vacancy,
or
b.	All qualified teachers on the priority recall list decline the offer to fill the
vacancy.
15
3.
Recall Procedures
a.	A teacher on the priority recall list shall be notified in writing in the
inverse order of layoff of any vacancy which occurs in his/her field of certification and prior employment status (e.g. full time, part time). A teacher on the priority recall list who was part time when terminated under this section will not be entitled to a position with more time unless conditions in D.2 of this article apply.
b.	The notification shall be by certified return receipt mail sent to his/her
address on file in the Office of Human Resources.
c.	The teacher so notified shall respond to the Director of Human Resources
in writing within ten (10) calendar days after receipt of the notification of the vacancy as to whether or not he/she will accept or reject the offer of the position. A nonresponse or a response received after ten (10) calendar days will be deemed as a rejection.
(1)	If the teacher rejects the position or cannot begin the new assignment within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of offer, the teacher shall have deemed to have waived his/her claim to that position provided. However, a laid-off employee who has accepted employment in another Maryland public school system and is unable to obtain a release from his/her employment contract may decline an offer to return to work and maintain recall rights for one year if the offer is issued later than July 1 for a position which will become available at the beginning of or during the following school year.
(2)	A teacher on the priority recall list may decline the offer of employment once within his/her area of certification and prior employment status (e.g. full time, part time).
(3)	By the end of one year from the date of being notified of the layoff, it is the teacher’s responsibility to notify the Director of Human Resources in writing if he/she desires to remain on the priority recall list for the second year.
4.	Benefits for Teachers on the Priority Recall List
a.	Teachers on the priority recall list may at their option pay the group rate
costs of all medical, health, and/or dental insurance benefits provided by this contract which the individual had at the time of layoff under this section. The employee may continue such coverage as long as he/she remains on the recall list and as long as he/she pays 100% of the premiums. The payments will be quarterly, in advance.
b.	Teachers recalled to active employment under these provisions shall have
restored to them all sick leave and personal leave accrued prior to being terminated under this article.
16
c.
Layoff under this section will neither be considered as a break in service or count towards years of service for seniority purposes as long as a teacher is re-employed under the conditions of this section.
5.	Tenured teachers on the priority recall list will be placed before teachers returning
from leaves under Article 17, except for those returning from leave as per paragraphs A, B, and D of Article 17.
E.	For summer school positions or for any teaching or advisory positions not performed
during regular school hours, the Board shall utilize the services of its qualified professional employees, when such personnel are available.
F.	Teachers shall receive their pay checks in individually sealed envelopes or shall have the
option of having their pay checks deposited directly through a bank designated by HCEA. In the event that a payday falls on a nonworking day, paychecks for teachers shall be delivered on the nearest working day to the scheduled pay date. Effective July 1, 2005, all new hires must either authorize direct deposit of pay or obtain a money card.
G.	Personnel employed for work, which is an extension of normal teaching duties, beyond the normal school year, excluding summer school, shall be compensated on a prorated sum based on the salary normally received if such work and rate of compensation are not provided in this agreement.
H.	Part-time teachers employed by the Board, based on qualifications and seniority, shall be considered for vacancies consistent with the provision of Article 6A.
ARTICLE 13 REIMBURSEMENT
A.	Teachers who may be required to use their own automobiles in the performance of their duties shall be reimbursed for all work-connected travel at the IRS rate. Teachers will be required to attend no more than three (3) countywide meetings per year without being reimbursed for mileage. Teachers who travel during the work day shall be reimbursed for all work-connected travel at the approved rate per mile for all driving done between the arrival at the first location at the beginning of their work day and leaving from the last location at the end of their work day.
B.	Teachers earning graduate or undergraduate college credit or approved staff development
courses taken for credit toward certification shall be reimbursed for tuition costs by the Board. The rate of reimbursement is up to $275 per credit up to a maximum of 45 graduate credit hours, with an annual limit of nine (9) credits, and a rate of up to $155 per credit up to a maximum of 24 undergraduate credit hours while employed by the Board of Education of Howard County and if the course is in a Maryland State Department of Education certificated area. There is no annual limit for credits taken through a Board-sponsored cohort program, as designated by the Superintendent’s designee. Teachers may use unused undergraduate and graduate credit hours to renew teaching certificates.
If the cost of such tuition is less than the specified fiscal year amount per credit, the Board shall reimburse teachers for the full cost of said tuition. Reimbursement shall be
17
made only upon written request by the teacher and provision by the teacher of an official grade report or official transcript indicating satisfactory completion of the course.
Teachers may use available graduate credit reimbursement for National Board Certification (NBC) work as designated below, when such fees are not eligible for reimbursement by local/state and/or other sources.
1.	Three (3) available credits for successful NBC candidacy
2.	One (1) available credit per successful NBC retake
3.	Three (3) available credits per successful NBC renewal
Occupational therapists, physical therapists, school mental health therapists, speech pathologists, and audiologists who are required to maintain a professional license or certification through an agency other than the Maryland State Department of Education shall be eligible for reimbursement for the cost of programs and/or courses required for licensing approved in advance. The total reimbursement shall not exceed $420 per year.
If directed by the Superintendent/designee to obtain additional certification endorsements, the Board will provide additional reimbursement for tuition at the rate set forth in paragraph B after the reimbursement provisions of that paragraph have been exhausted.
C.	If a salary is affirmed for a school year on the basis of an anticipated certification status, said salary will not be diminished during that school year.
D.	One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) shall be allocated to paying the expenses of school-based teachers to attend professional meetings. These expenses of school-based teachers shall include food, transportation, lodging, and other convention expenses. The teacher will also receive salary during this time. These days shall not be deducted from sick or personal leave.
ARTICLE 14
ASSOCIATION RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES
A.	There will be no reprisals of any kind taken against any teacher solely by reason of his/her membership in the Association or for participation in any of its lawful activities.
B.	The Association will be provided with copies of minutes of public session official Board meetings. The Board will be provided copies of minutes of public session meetings of the Association.
C.	The Association may request and shall be given a place on the agenda of all regular Board meetings for brief reports and announcements.
D.	The Superintendent shall be available upon reasonable request to meet with representatives of the Association.
E.	The principal of each school shall be available upon reasonable request of Association
representatives to discuss questions relating to the implementation of this Agreement in his/her school.
18
F.	The Association will be provided with the names and addresses of all new teachers and
all retiring teachers as soon as such information is available.
G.	The Association will have the right to have placed in the Superintendent’s packet for all new teachers a letter prepared by the Association which informs said teachers that the Association is recognized as the exclusive negotiating representative for all teachers in the Howard County Public School System.
H.	The Association shall be given a place on the agenda of the orientation program for new teachers to explain the function and benefits of membership.
I.	In order for the Association to properly fulfill this Agreement for the benefit of all
teachers and the welfare of the school system, the Association representative may visit schools and talk with teachers, provided that the exercise of this right will not interfere with the educational program.
J.	The Association shall continue to use school buildings without cost at reasonable times
for meetings provided the use of the building shall not result in any additional cost to the Board. The principal of the building in question will be notified in advance of the time and place of all such meetings.
K.	The Association representative will have the right to schedule meetings of the teachers before or after school work days or at any other times which do not disrupt the normal school program.
L.	There will be bulletin board space of appropriate size reserved for the Association, in an
appropriate place in each school building, for the purpose of displaying notices, circulars, and such material. Copies of all such material will be given to the building principal, but his/her advance approval will not be required.
M.	The Association will have the right to place Association notices, circulars, and other materials in all teachers’ mailboxes. Copies of all such material will be given to the building principal and Superintendent, but his/her advance approval will not be required. The Association will also have the right to use the interschool mail to distribute prepackaged and labeled material, and its office shall be a designated stop on the interschool mail distribution route for delivery of interschool mail, so long as the Association office is on a regular route.
N.	No teacher will be prevented from wearing pins or other identification of membership in the Association.
O.	Teachers shall be allowed to attend professional meetings with the approval of the Superintendent.
P.	The rights and/or privileges granted to the Association in this section will not be granted
to any other teachers’ group or organization during the term of this Agreement.
Q.	Officers and members of the Association recognize that school equipment, time, and materials are intended primarily for the use of pupils.
19
R.	Unless a teacher requests that his/her address and phone number not be distributed, the Association faculty representative shall be provided with a faculty list, including home addresses and telephone numbers, by September 15.
S.	Association officers and/or representatives shall be permitted to draw upon a total of
forty (40) full days for use for Association business. Upon request of the president, a representative shall be released from professional duties for Association duties, with payments of substitutes borne by the Association. Notice of such absence shall be given as far in advance as reasonably possible to the employee’s immediate superior, but in no case shall the notice be less than 48 hours. No one may use more than five (5) consecutive days under this policy.
Any Association leave days remaining at the end of each year may be deducted from the amount HCEA pays to the Board for the Association president’s salary. The amount deducted for each day will be the difference between the daily substitute rate and the daily rate of the president.
T.	In addition to paragraph S, the Association may designate a maximum of thirty-five (35)
unit members to attend the annual corporate meeting of the Maryland State Education Association (MSEA).
1.	The Association shall, ten (10) calendar days prior to the first day of the MSEA
corporate meeting, submit a list of unit member names designated to attend said meeting to the Superintendent. His/her approval will not be necessary.
2.	The Board shall allow the designated unit members not more than one (1) full
duty day for such attendance, without loss of pay or any other benefit due them, per school year.
3.	The Board and the Association agree that this section (Article XIV, Section T)
does not apply if schools are closed on the day that the annual corporate meeting of the Maryland State Teachers’ Association is held.
U.	The Board of Education shall provide the Association with copies of all policy changes or directives issued by the Board or Central Office administrative personnel that affect wages, hours, or conditions of employment of teachers as a group.
V.	The Board shall furnish to the Association in response to reasonable request from time to time available information concerning the financial resources of the system, including but not limited to: annual financial reports, names of certificated personnel, individual and teacher group health insurance premiums and experience figures, and such other information that shall assist the Association in developing intelligent, accurate, informed, and constructive programs on behalf of the teachers and the students.
W.	Association representatives and Board of Directors members shall be permitted to leave the school building immediately following student dismissal in those schools dismissing students at 3:15 or later for the purpose of attending scheduled Association meetings. Such early departure shall not exceed two (2) times per month.
X.	The Association president shall have access to the sick leave bank when 15 days of Association-provided sick leave are exhausted.
20
ARTICLE 15
SICK AND BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
A.	Sick Leave
1.	Teachers shall earn and be credited sick leave at the rate of one (1) work day per
month, the annual total of which shall be available at the beginning of the school year after the first day of duty.
2.	The total unused portion of the annual sick leave allowance shall be permitted to
accumulate to an unlimited amount.
3.	All teachers may use their accumulated sick leave as of the first day of the school
year, even though they have not been able to report for duty on that day, provided the teacher presents evidence of personal illness.
4.	Employees who vacate their position and who have used more sick leave than
earned shall be required to reimburse the Board and/or have their pay adjusted for the appropriate amount of days.
B.	A teacher shall be allowed five (5) consecutive work days (summer break not included) of absence from school without loss of salary on the death of a child, parent, brother, sister, husband, wife, same-sex domestic partner, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-inlaw, daughter-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, stepchildren, brother-in-law, sister-inlaw, grandparents of spouse, or of anyone who has lived regularly in the household of the teacher. Two consecutive days of bereavement leave will be allowed for the death of an aunt, uncle, niece, or nephew.
C.	Teachers under contract for less than full time shall be allowed sick leave and bereavement leave based on the percentage of time worked.
D.	Teachers shall, at their request, be allowed to use sick leave for absence due to disability connected with or resulting from pregnancy. Under this provision, such disability shall be treated as a temporary disability under all Board policies, and the teacher must return to work as soon as physically able, unless the teacher resigns or requests a leave of absence.
E.	Teachers who do not receive annual leave will be allowed to use up to ten days of sick
leave for an illness in the immediate family or of a same-sex domestic partner.
ARTICLE 16
TEMPORARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A. Teachers will be entitled to the following temporary leaves of absence with full pay each school year:
1.	Personal leave
a.	Two (2) days of leave per year, with no loss of pay, shall be available to
each teacher for personal leave.
21
b.	The teacher shall not be required to give the reason for taking personal
leave but, except in cases of emergency, must notify the principal of his/her intention 24 hours in advance.
c.	Unused personal leave days may be accumulated up to five (5) with no more than four (4) days used consecutively and any days in excess of five (5) shall be transferred to sick leave.
d.	Personal leave may not be used solely to extend holidays and/or vacation
periods. Personal leave may be granted by the Superintendent/designee during these periods provided that the request is made in writing at least ten (10) school days in advance.
e.	Misuse of leave shall result in deduction of full pay.
2.	Legal Proceedings
a.	A teacher shall be granted leave with no loss of pay for appearances in any
legal proceedings connected with his/her employment or with the school system and for court subpoena when the teacher is called as a witness, provided such appearances are not related to any suit or litigation brought by the employee against the Board or its employees or criminal charges brought against the employee.
b.	A teacher called for jury duty shall notify his/her principal of his/her plans
for such service as early as possible and shall receive full pay and fringe benefits in addition to remuneration for jury duty.
3.	Temporary Military Service
a.	Leave with no loss of pay for a maximum of fifteen (15) working days
annually may be granted to teachers called into emergency temporary active duty of any federal or state military unit, provided such obligation cannot be fulfilled on days when school is not in session.
ARTICLE 17
EXTENDED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A.	The Board agrees that up to one (1) teacher who has achieved tenure and is designated by the Association will, upon request, be granted a leave of absence without pay or other benefits for a minimum of one (1) year for the purpose of engaging in Association (local, state, or national) activities. In addition, a tenured teacher who is elected MSEA president or vice-president or NEA president or vice president will, upon request by HCEA, be granted a leave of absence without pay or other benefits for the year(s) the teacher is president.
1.	An individual elected to serve as President of the Howard County Education
Association shall become or remain a full time employee of the Howard County
22
Public School System and shall be granted leave status for the period of his/her term. For individuals who are part-time prior to being elected president, there is no guarantee of a return to a part-time position once the term expires.
2.	During his/her term, the President of HCEA shall be placed on Salary Scale B,
the salary scale for 12-month Coordinator/Staff Development Facilitator. The annual salary shall be determined based upon the provisions for placement on Schedule B.
3.	The salary and fringe benefits for the HCEA President will be paid by the Howard
County Public School System and reimbursement will be made to the Howard County Public School System by HCEA.
4.	Upon completion of his/her term(s), the HCEA President will return to a ten-
month position and salary, subject to the terms of the Master Agreement.
B.	A leave of absence without pay of up to two (2) years may be granted to any teacher on tenure who serves successfully in the Peace Corps, VISTA, National Teacher Corps, or serves as an exchange teacher or overseas teacher and is a full-time participant in either of such programs.
C.	A teacher on tenure may be granted a leave of absence without pay for up to one (1) year for study. Additional leave may be granted at the discretion of the Board.
D.	Military leave without pay will be granted to any teacher who is inducted into any branch of the Armed Forces of the United States for the period of said induction. Upon completion of military leave, the employee may return to his/her former position if vacant.
E.	Tenured teachers, at their request, shall normally be granted a leave of absence for child
rearing, without pay, for such a period of time as the teacher requests, but not to exceed two (2) years. The Board may, at the teacher’s request, renew this leave on an annual basis for a period not to exceed three (3) years per occurrence. Applications for such leave shall be made as soon as possible, but normally at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date.
F.	The Board may grant a leave of absence without pay to any teacher on tenure to
campaign for public office or to campaign for a candidate for public office. Leave will be granted for a minimum of one (1) semester.
G.	Any teacher whose illness extends beyond the period covered by his/her accumulated sick leave and any additional sick leave granted to him/her by the Board may be granted a further leave without pay for such time as is necessary for complete recovery from such illness.
H.	Upon return from leave granted pursuant to A, B, or D, of this Article, a teacher shall be restored to his/her former position or to a position of like nature and status and will be considered as if he/she were actively employed by the Board during the leave and will be placed on the salary schedule at the level he/she would have achieved if he/she had not
23
been absent. A teacher will not receive increment credit for time spent on leave granted pursuant to Section C, E, F, G, or J of this section.
The following are applicable generally to all extended leaves unless elsewhere excluded in this Agreement:
1.	Other benefits to which a teacher was entitled at the time his/her leave of absence
commenced, including unused accumulated sick leave, will be restored to him/her upon his/her return; and he/she will be assigned to the same position which he/she held at the time said leave commenced, if available, or to the first available position for which he/she is certificated.
2.	All requests for extended leaves of absence, extensions, or renewals of such
leaves will be made in writing, and the Superintendent/designee will provide a written response to all such requests.
3.	Leaves taken under Section B or C of this article shall be planned to commence
and terminate at the beginning of the fall semester. Said leaves shall be requested no later than July 15.
I.	Nothing contained herein shall prevent a teacher on leave without pay from being a
substitute in the Howard County School System while on such leave.
J.	A leave of absence for up to one school year without pay may be granted to a teacher to
care for a sick member of his/her immediate family (son, daughter, husband, wife, samesex domestic partner, mother, father). Appropriate medical statements shall be submitted to the personnel office to verify the need.
K.	Teachers whose leave expires must notify the Office of Human Resources by March 1, in writing, regarding their intention to return from the expired leave. Failure to do so will be construed as a lack of interest in employment.
L.	Other leaves may be granted at the discretion of the Board of Education.
ARTICLE 18
WORKING HOURS AND WORK LOAD
A.	Teachers shall be assigned appropriate starting and dismissal times, provided that the total regular work day will be no longer than 7 hours and 35 minutes consecutively, except when faculty meetings are held. In the event that it becomes necessary to assign nonteaching duties during the regular work day, such duties will be assigned on a just basis.
In regard to delayed opening and/or early dismissal days, the work day of classroom teachers will begin twenty (20) minutes before the scheduled student starting time on said day and will end thirty (30) minutes after the scheduled student dismissal time on said day.
24
B.	The school calendar shall include one hundred ninety-two (192) working days for all tenmonth teachers. Beginning in FY 2004 one (1) day was added to the school calendar to increase the number of working days to 191. In FY 2005 one (1) day was added to the school calendar to increase the number of working days to 192. These additional days may be used to increase the number of student instruction days. These days may also be used as professional days that will focus on instruction and student achievement. These professional days will be used by teachers to concentrate on the achievement of their students. Individual planning for instruction, working collaboratively with colleagues, professional development plan implementation and other team/department work focused on improving student performance are all appropriate uses of this day. System-wide professional development activities associated with school system priorities may be made available on these days.
1.	Eleven-month personnel: Twenty (20) days more than a ten-month teacher
2.	Twelve-month personnel: All represented twelve-month employees will work
every day the central office is open, except those assigned to schools will have winter and spring breaks the same as ten-month teachers.
C.	All twelve-month employees will receive twenty (20) days annual leave. Unused annual leave may be accumulated up to a maximum of forty (40) days.
D.	Every reasonable effort shall be made to start faculty meetings on time and to keep meetings as brief as possible. Except in cases of emergency, there shall only be one school-wide faculty meeting per month, which may extend no more than one-half (1/2) hour beyond the regular work day. Two other faculty meetings per month may be held within the regular work day, between the time of student dismissal and the end of the regular teacher work day. Every effort will be made to begin such meetings ten (10) minutes after the student dismissal time.
Attendance at all other assignments or meetings other than during the regular work day will be at the option of the individual teacher.
E.	Teachers shall have a 30-minute, duty-free lunch period. On regularly scheduled student
days, the teacher’s lunch period shall be scheduled within the student day. This provision does not apply when the school or student day is shortened for any reason.
Teachers shall not be required to stay in their building during the duty-free lunch period. Teachers should notify the school office before leaving and upon returning. In an emergency, it is understood that a principal may limit the number of teachers who may leave at any one time.
F.	Planning Time
1.	Secondary school teachers will, in addition to their lunch period, have daily
preparation time of at least fifty (50) consecutive minutes during the regular student day in which they will not be assigned to any other duties.
2.	Elementary teachers will, in addition to their lunch period, have weekly
preparation time during the student week of at least two hundred fifty (250) minutes, with at least two hundred twenty (220) minutes of such time scheduled
25
in blocks of not less than fifty five (55) minutes. Elementary teachers shall have at least thirty (30) consecutive minutes of preparation time during each regular student day. During this preparation time, they will not be assigned to any other duties.
3.	The scheduling of daily planning periods shall be determined by the principal
after consultation with the faculty.
G.	Secondary school teachers will not be required to teach more than two (2) subject areas
(e.g. social studies, science) except in cases of emergency.
H.	When a special teacher is in charge of the class, the regular teacher shall have the option to leave the classroom.
I.	Both the Board and the Association recognize the important contribution of PTA and
PTSA organizations to the school system and encourage participation by teachers in their activities.
J.	No more than two (2) emergency daily lesson plans will be on file for use by a substitute
teacher. The lesson plans shall be updated within five (5) school days upon the return of the teacher to his/her regular assignment.
K.	Substitutes shall be provided for all classroom teachers (including media personnel and
specialists) who attend professional conferences and activities, including inservice meetings and approved teacher visitations to other county schools.
Substitutes will not be provided for physical therapists, occupational therapists, school mental health therapists, speech pathologists, gifted and talented resource teachers, guidance personnel, teachers of the vision impaired, teachers of the hearing impaired, work study coordinators, trainer/teachers assigned to the county diagnostic center, audiologists, facilitators, supervisors, 11-month specialists, or coordinators.
L.	Media specialists who are teaching a class shall not be required to provide normal media
services during said teaching time.
M.	Teachers may not be required to work beyond the contract day during the parent-teacher conference window. However, if a teacher volunteers to work evening conferences (one or two evenings), they will receive an equal amount of time off during the conference window. Teacher participation in evening conferences requires the concurrence of the principal.
ARTICLE 19 TEACHING CONDITIONS
A.	The Board shall provide:
1.	A separate, adequate, dining area for teachers.
2.	Well-maintained, properly lighted, clean, ventilated, safe, healthful, and furnished
classrooms and/or teaching areas.
26
3.	Adequate, well-maintained playground space.
4.	The faculty shall arrange for the installation of vending machines after
consultation with the principal. All the proceeds from the machines shall be used in such manner as the faculty of that building shall determine.
5.	An appropriately furnished room to be used as a faculty lounge.
6.	Desks and file cabinets for teachers. Lockable desks or file cabinets will be
provided as replaced.
B.	To the extent possible and within limits of the funds available, in existing buildings, and in all new buildings, the Board shall provide the following:
1.	Space in each classroom in which teachers may safely store instructional
materials and supplies.
2.	Well-lit and clean teachers’ restrooms, separate for each sex and separate from the
students’ restrooms.
3.	Working, conference, and storage facilities for special instructional personnel.
4.	Sinks for all pre-kindergarten, kindergarten, primary, and special education
classrooms and/or teaching areas.
C.	Classroom interruptions shall be permitted only in case of emergency or announcements
of building-wide concerns.
D.	Unless provided free publicly, all medical examinations and tests required for
employment in the Howard County School System shall be paid by the Board.
E.	Whenever a principal is absent for more than one-half (1/2) day and a teacher is
appointed acting principal, the teacher shall be relieved of his/her classroom duties for the period of the principal’s absence. When a principal is absent for one-half (1/2) day or less, no substitute will be provided, and the teacher designated as acting principal shall not be expected to handle any matters coming into the principal’s office other than emergency situations which require immediate attention. In spite of the principal’s absence, he/she is fully responsible for actions and decisions made through the principal’s office during his/her absence.
Teachers appointed as acting principal by the Board on the recommendation of the Superintendent will be compensated at the appropriate administrative salary level for that teacher, and he/she shall be fully responsible for actions and decisions made as acting principal.
F.	When the work of noninstructional personnel tends to interfere with a teaching situation,
the teacher may request that such work be rescheduled to a more appropriate time.
G.	Teachers may be required only to check (V) in at the beginning of each school day.
27
H.	Labor/Management Committee
1.	Purpose
The intent of the Labor/Management Committee is to provide a forum for discussing and attempting to resolve non-negotiated matters of mutual concern of the parties. The parties may also attempt to resolve differences of interpretation of negotiated matters. However, it is recognized that the Labor/Management Committee is not a substitute for the grievance procedure. Additionally, it is recognized that neither party will submit or otherwise seek modification of any negotiated term or condition of the agreement through the Labor/Management Committee and no bargaining will take place.
2.	Membership
Standing members of the Labor/Management Committee will include the president or designee of the Howard County Education Association, and one other representative of the Association to be determined by the president, a MSEA/HCEA Uniserv Director, the Superintendent or designee, Chief Business Officer, and Chief Negotiator for the Board. At any meeting of the Labor/ Management Committee, either party may be represented by up to four additional members. Both parties may rotate these members in order to accommodate discussion of scheduled agenda items at meetings.
3.	Chairperson
The President of HCEA/designee or the Superintendent/designee can convene the Labor/Management Committee.
4.	Minutes
The Superintendent’s designee will prepare minutes of the meeting. Copies of the minutes will be distributed to all members who were in attendance at the meetings.
5.	Date, Time, and Agenda of Meetings
Meetings may be called at the request of either party. Meetings will be requested a minimum of two weeks in advance along with the proposed agenda items of the requesting party. The proposed agenda shall normally be limited to two hours and shall include the topics along with a brief description. Topics not on the agenda will not be discussed. However, it is recognized that either party may initiate a topic not on the agenda provided the other party concurs that it is of an emergency nature or a current item that would be of benefit to be discussed as soon as possible.
As time permits, each topic will be discussed fully and recommendations made on the topic before proceeding to another topic. Topics requiring further study may be tabled and brought for further discussion at a future meeting.
28
ARTICLE 20:	SALARY SCALES
THE HOWARD COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM
10-MONTH TEACHERS
FISCAL YEAR 2013 (Effective July 1, 2012)
GRADE						
	PD (Provisional)	A (SPC)	B (BA/BS +30)	C (Masters)	D (MA/MS +30)	E (Doctorate)
STEP						
1	34,427	45,971	47,621	49,270	50,919	52,568
2	34,633	46,178	47,827	49,476	51,125	52,774
3	35,046	46,384	48,239	49,888	51,538	53,187
4	35,458	46,590	48,651	50,301	51,950	53,599
5	36,282	48,445	50,713	52,362	54,011	55,661
6	37,932	50,301	52,774	54,424	56,073	57,722
7	39,581	52,156	54,836	56,485	58,134	59,784
8	41,230	54,011	56,897	58,547	60,196	61,845
9	42,879	55,867	58,959	60,608	62,257	63,907
10	44,528	57,722	61,020	62,670	64,319	65,968
11	46,178	59,577	63,082	64,731	66,380	68,030
12		61,433	65,143	66,793	68,442	70,091
13		62,360	67,205	68,854	70,503	72,153
14			69,266	70,916	72,565	74,214
15			73,389	75,039	76,688	78,337
16			73,389	75,039	76,688	78,337
17			73,389	75,039	76,688	78,337
18			77,512	79,162	80,811	82,460
19			77,512	79,162	80,811	82,460
20			77,512	79,162	80,811	82,460
21			81,635	83,285	84,934	86,583
22			81,635	83,285	84,934	86,583
23			81,635	83,285	84,934	86,583
24			81,635	83,285	84,934	86,583
25			85,758	87,408	89,057	90,706
26			85,758	87,408	89,057	90,706
27			85,758	87,408	89,057	90,706
28			87,408	89,057	90,706	92,355
29			87,408	89,057	90,706	92,355
30			89,057	90,706	92,355	94,004
29
ARTICLE 20: SALARY SCALES
THE HOWARD COUNTY PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM
11-MONTH TEACHERS
FISCAL YEAR 2013 (Effective July 1, 2012)
GRADE						
	PD (Provisional)	A (SPC)	B (BA/BS +30)	C (Masters)	D (MA/MS +30)	E (Doctorate)
STEP						
1	37,870	50,569	52,383	54,197	56,011	57,825
2	38,097	50,795	52,609	54,424	56,238	58,052
3	38,550	51,022	53,063	54,877	56,691	58,505
4	39,004	51,249	53,517	55,331	57,145	58,959
5	39,911	53,290	55,784	57,598	59,412	61,227
6	41,725	55,331	58,052	59,866	61,680	63,494
7	43,539	57,372	60,319	62,134	63,948	65,762
8	45,353	59,412	62,587	64,401	66,215	68,030
9	47,167	61,453	64,855	66,669	68,483	70,297
10	48,981	63,494	67,122	68,937	70,751	72,565
11	50,795	65,535	69,390	71,204	73,018	74,832
12		67,576	71,658	73,472	75,286	77,100
13		68,596	73,925	75,740	77,554	79,368
14			76,193	78,007	79,821	81,635
15			80,728	82,542	84,357	86,171
16			80,728	82,542	84,357	86,171
17			80,728	82,542	84,357	86,171
18			85,264	87,078	88,892	90,706
19			85,264	87,078	88,892	90,706
20			85,264	87,078	88,892	90,706
21			89,799	91,613	93,427	95,241
22			89,799	91,613	93,427	95,241
23			89,799	91,613	93,427	95,241
24			89,799	91,613	93,427	95,241
25			94,334	96,148	97,962	99,777
26			94,334	96,148	97,962	99,777
27			94,334	96,148	97,962	99,777
28			96,148	97,962	99,777	101,591
29			96,148	97,962	99,777	101,591
30			97,962	99,777	101,591	103,405
30
NOTES: ARTICLE 20, SALARY SCHEDULES - TEACHERS
(1)	Salary Grades
PD - Provisional Degree Certificate
A - Standard Professional Certificate (SPC)
B - Bachelor’s plus APC or 30 credit hours applicable to APC
C - Master’s Degree
D - Master’s Degree plus 30 graduate credit hours
E - Earned Doctorate
(2)	Teachers who are currently on the provisional degree scale, Schedule A, Step 10, or above, shall continue to receive negotiated salary increases until they move to another scale or leave the school system.
(3)	Salary payments for ten (10)-month employees will be made on a biweekly basis over a ten- or twelve-month period at the option of the teacher. Such decision shall be made by the teacher by June 30th of the prior school year and shall remain in effect for the duration of the ten (10) or twelve (12)-month option period. Teachers not giving notice on the appropriate form will continue with their current pay option.
(4)	Instructional Team Leaders shall receive a supplement of $2,500.
(5)	Teachers successfully completing the National Board of Professional Teaching Standards certification program (NBPTS) shall receive an annual supplement of $2,000 each year their NBPTS certificate remains in good standing. The aforementioned supplement will be implemented at the beginning or the midpoint of the teacher’s work year.
(6)	Speech and language pathologists who hold a Certificate of Clinical Competence from the American Speech and Hearing Association (ASHA) shall receive an annual supplement of $3,000.
(7)	Employees did not receive an increment for the 2009-2010 school year. If a double increment is negotiated for a given fiscal year, the first increment will be implemented by eliminating the 1st step on the current scale and renumbering all other steps; (i.e. Step 2 becomes the new Step 1, Step 3 becomes the new Step 2, etc.)
(8)	Teachers must select a payment option (10 or 12 months) by June 30th of each year. Teachers who do not select an option by this date will paid on a 12-month schedule.
(9)	Supplements referred to in (4), (5), and (6) above shall be included in the teacher’s annual salary for retirement and life insurance purposes.
31
ARTICLE 20: SALARY SCALES
THE HOWARD COUTNY PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM
OTHER CERTIFICATED STAFF
FISCAL YEAR 2013 (Effective July 1, 2012)
PSYCHOLOGIST	PSYCHOLOGIST	COORDINATOR
PUPIL PERSONNEL	PUPIL PERSONNEL	STAFF DEVELOPMENT FACILITATOR
WORKER	WORKER	
(10 MONTHS)	(11 MONTHS)	(12 MONTHS)
	GRADE		
	I	II	III
STEP			
1	64,440	70,840	75,992
2	67,620	74,382	79,856
3	70,840	77,924	83,720
4	74,060	81,466	87,584
5	77,280	85,008	91,448
6	80,500	88,550	95,312
7	83,720	92,092	99,176
8	86,940	95,634	103,040
9	90,160	99,176	106,904
10	93,380	102,718	110,768
11	93,380	102,718	110,768
12	95,956	105,616	113,988
13	95,956	105,616	113,988
14	95,956	105,616	113,988
15	98,532	108,514	117,208
Note: The 10-month salary scale for school psychologists and pupil personnel workers can only be used for employees hired on or after July 1, 2010.
32
NOTES: ARTICLE 20, SALARY SCHEDULES
A.	Entry level placement on Schedule B due to promotion is determined by the individual’s current salary multiplied by a factor of eleven tenths (11/10ths) or twelve-tenths (12/10ths), depending on promotion to an eleven (11)- or twelve (12)-month position. If a step on the appropriate salary scale matches an individual’s newly computed salary, the individual is placed on that step. If an individual’s computed salary is between steps, the placement is on the step above the individual’s computed step.
B.	Compensation for coaches and advisors in schools where a program is funded by the
board:	Adjustments within classifications at individual schools may be made by the
principal based on student participation and staffing needs, subject to the approval of the Superintendent/ designee.
C.	Any teacher residing out of county who is a parent or legal guardian of a child enrolled in a Howard County public school shall receive a 25% discount on HCPSS tuition while the teacher is employed with HCPSS. This benefit shall cease at the time of the employee’s severance with the school system.
D.	Teachers hired on or after April 1 shall not be eligible for any increment negotiated for the subsequent fiscal year.
E.	In FY14, provided that the Board of Education is able to fully fund an increment for
teachers, the next priority within the compensation package will be further compression of the scale toward step 28.
33
INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETICS COACHES’/ADVISORS’ STIPENDS, FY2013
SPORT	REIMBURSEMENT
Allied Sports	
Bowling (1)	$2,000
Soccer (1)	$2,000
Softball (1)	$2,000
Baseball	
Varsity, (1)	$3,738
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Basketball - Boys	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Basketball - Girls	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Cheerleading	
Fall Varsity (1)	$3,738
Fall Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Winter Varsity (1)	$3,738
Winter Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Cross Country	
Varsity (2)	$3,738
Field Hockey	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Football	
Varsity, head coach (1)	$4,704
Varsity, assistant (2)	$3,485
Junior Varsity (2)	$3,485
Golf	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Indoor Track - Boys	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Indoor Track - Girls	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Lacrosse - Boys	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Assistant (1)	$2,470
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Lacrosse - Girls	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Assistant (1)	$2,470
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Outdoor Track - Boys	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Assistant (1)	$2,470
34
SPORT	REIMBURSEMENT
Outdoor Track - Girls	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Assistant (1)	$2,470
Soccer - Boys	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Soccer - Girls	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Softball	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Tennis	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Volleyball	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
Freshmen (1)	$2,470
Wrestling	
Varsity (1)	$3,738
Junior Varsity (1)	$2,470
ACTIVITY	REIMBURSEMENT
ATHS (1) (American Technical Honor Society)	$1,650
Band Front (1)	$1,650
CTSO (Career & Technology Student Org.)	$1,650
FIRST Robotics (1)	$1,650
Future Educators of America (1)	$1,650
It's Academic (1)	$1,650
Junior Class Advisor (1)	$1,650
Math Team (1)	$1,650
National Honor Society (1)	$1,650
Newspaper (1)	$1,650
Pom Poms (1)	$1,650
Speech/NFL (National Forensic League) (1)	$1,650
Student Council (1)	$1,650
Senior Class Advisor (1)	$2,087
Yearbook (1)	$2,087
Dance (1)	$2,501
Music; Orchestra (1)*	$2,501*
Vocal Music (1)	$2,501
Dramatics (1)	$3,094
Music; Instrumental (1)	$3,094
Stage Production (1; 2 productions)	$3,094
( ) - Denotes number per high school
*Orchestra directors only assigned .5 to one school will receive half the stipend amount.
35
NOTES: COACHES’/ADVISORS’ STIPENDS
1.	Acceptance of such assignment shall be voluntary and for a single season. A
coach/advisor will be notified by the Superintendent/ designee no later than 60 days after the completion of the activity if he/she will be the coach/ advisor the following year.
A.	Intramural Activities
Middle school intramural sponsors will be compensated $350 per activity as approved by the Superintendent/designee.
B.	Part-Time Teachers
1.	A part-time teacher is a teacher assigned to one of the part-time teacher salary categories
noted below:
Part-Time Teacher/ Salary Category	Number of Minutes in Teacher Work Day
.50	228
.55	250
.60	273
.65	296
.70	319
.75	341
.80	364
.85	387
.90	410
2.	A part-time teacher’s salary will be computed based on the percentage of instructional
time and any other assigned responsibilities scheduled during the regular school day.
3.	A 30-minute lunch period and 40 minutes of planning time will be provided for teachers
assigned to a .5 and higher position.
4.	The percentage of any sick and personal leave will be consistent with the percentage of
the assignment.
5.	Reimbursement for health benefits for a part-time teacher, .5 and above, is outlined in
Article 22, Insurance Protection.
6.	Salary category .90 shall not be used to develop a teaching schedule in any four-period
day high school unless the tenured teacher voluntarily selects the .90 category designation.
36
ARTICLE 21
DEDUCTIONS FROM SALARY
A.	The Board agrees to deduct from teachers’ salaries membership dues and assessments for the Howard County Education Association, the Maryland State Teachers’ Association, and the National Education Association as said teachers individually and voluntarily authorize to deduct through an appropriate written authorization form prepared by the Association. The Board agrees to transmit such monies promptly to the Association.
1.	Deductions shall be made in equal installments beginning with the last pay in
September or the first pay in October, providing the list of names and dollar amounts of those Association members who authorize deductions is presented to the Payroll Department at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the first pay date in October.
2.	The Association will certify to the Board in writing the current rate of
membership dues.
3.	The Association will give the Board thirty (30) days’ written notice prior to the
effective date of any change in the rate of dues.
4.	In the event a teacher terminates employment, the Board shall deduct, when
possible, the unpaid dues for the current membership year from the teacher’s final check and transmit these dues promptly to the Association.
B.	Payroll deductions will be available at the request of the individual teacher for:
1.	Massachusetts Mutual Contingent Disability Income Protection
2.	Horace Mann Life
3.	Educators’ Financial Group
4.	Texas International Life Insurance
5.	Teacher Association Dues
6.	Hospitalization, Health, Major Medical
7.	Short-Term Disability
8.	Credit Union
9.	United Way
10.	Teacher Retirement
11.	Acacia Mutual	Life
12.	U. S. Savings Bonds
13.	Tax Sheltered Annuities in existence and utilized by unit members during the 1989-90 school year.
14.	Additional tax sheltered annuities as established by the Board of Education based on criteria developed by the Board of Education. It is understood the companies agree to cooperate with the Board in the collection procedures.
15.	Fund for Children and Public Education
16.	Help-A-Child Fund
C.	The Board agrees to deduct charitable contributions from teachers’ salaries only when the
teacher has duly authorized such deduction and has voluntarily determined the amount of
37
such a contribution. No individual quotas will be established. Teachers shall not be pressured to give to charities.
D.	The rights and/or privileges granted to the Association will not be granted to any other teachers’ group or organization during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 22 INSURANCE PROTECTION
A.	Life Insurance
The Board shall pay the full cost for group term life insurance protection equal to a teacher's base salary (to the nearest thousand), with a minimum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) to be paid to the teacher’s designated beneficiary upon death and, in the event of accidental death, a sum not less than two (2) times that amount.
B.	Medical, Dental and Vision Insurance
Beginning January 1, 2011, the Board shall pay eighty-seven percent (87%) of the premium cost of a group medical plan for each teacher and covered eligible dependent(s).
For each full-time equivalent teacher enrolled under the 84-85 Dental Program (Current Dental Plan only), the Board shall pay ninety percent (90%) of the premium cost for individual dental coverage only. The teacher may elect to purchase dental coverage for eligible dependent(s).
For teachers with a start date on or after July 1, 2011, the Board shall pay eighty-five percent (85%) of the premium cost of a group medical plan the teacher and eligible dependent(s). This revised BOE contribution will be effective July 1, 2011, or the teacher’s eligibility date, whichever date occurs later.
The Board will offer teachers enrolled under the Variety of Insurance Program (VIP) dental and vision plan(s). Employees may elect to purchase dental and/or vision coverage for eligible dependent(s).
The selection and removal of health, dental, and/or vision carriers and their respective plans is at the Board’s discretion, including those plans identified in the 84-85 Medical/Dental Program.
The Board will establish a committee, to include representation from all bargaining units, to provide input on the HCPSS health benefits program.
C.	Variety of Insurance Program (VIP) Medical, Dental, and Vision Program
1.	Teacher Election of Variety of Insurance Programs (VIP)
a.	Each year during open enrollment as established by the Board, each
teacher will be required to make an election between participating in the VIP program or continuing his/her participation in the 1984-85 health insurance arrangement.
38
Teachers hired after July 1, 1993, may not select the "Traditional Medical Plan."
b.	This election will be irrevocable for the Plan Year.
c.	Once a teacher elects to participate in the VIP Program, he/she will not be
allowed to participate in the prior insurance arrangement.
d.	All new and/or rehired teachers with a reporting date after June 30, 1985,
will not have the opportunity to make this election but will automatically participate in the VIP Program when eligible.
e.	The 1984-85 insurance arrangement is as follows:
(1)	Teachers electing to remain in the 1984-85 medical coverage plan will be required to contribute 13% of the individual and dependent premiums.
Teachers electing to participate in the 84-85 Dental Plan will be required to contribute 10% of the individual premium and 100% of the dependent premium.
(2)	All teacher contributions will remain on an after-tax basis.
(3)	Cost containment measures.
f.	The third party administrator will determine the usual and customary
charges twice a year by using the average charges for the service area where the services were performed.
2.	Teacher Selection of Optional Benefits under the VIP Program
a.	If a teacher elects to participate or becomes eligible to participate in the VIP Program, he/she must select among the optional benefits offered as part of the VIP Program. These optional benefits include:
(1)	Medical Plan(s)
(2)	Dental Plan(s)
(3)	Vision Care Plan(s)
(4)	Flexible Spending	Accounts, including:
a.	Dependent Care Account
b.	Health Care Spending Account
(5)	Benefit Dollars (pro-rated for part-time employees).
Information on health, dental, and/or vision plans will be made available to eligible employees during the Open Enrollment Period.
b.	The selection of optional benefits is an irrevocable election for the entire Plan
Year except the election may be revoked and a new selection of benefits made if
39
the teacher has a change in family status (e.g., marriage, divorce, change in samesex domestic partner status, death of spouse or child, birth or adoption of child, or termination of employment of spouse, or same-sex domestic partner). This applies not only to participation in the insured programs, but also to the level of participation in the Dependent Care Account and the Health Care Spending Account.
c.	Each open enrollment period as established by the Board, teachers electing or
eligible to participate in the VIP Program will be given the opportunity to change the benefits they have selected. Each year teachers will be informed of any changes in the VIP Program. This will give each teacher the chance to review and compare various benefit alternatives in order to make the proper selection during the open enrollment period.
d.	Each Medical Plan alternative (including electing no Medical Plan) will have a
specified number of "benefit credits" associated with its selection. These benefit credits may be used to purchase any of the optional insured benefits (Vision and Dental Plans or teacher contributions for medical coverage) or contribute to the Dependent Care Account or Health Care Spending Account.
e.	Each insured benefit option (Medical, Vision, and Dental Plans) will have a "price
tag" or cost to a teacher if that particular benefit is selected. Benefit credits may be used to purchase or pay the price of each insured's benefit selected. Amounts contributed to the Dependent Care Account or Health Care Spending Account are optional with teachers choosing to contribute any amount within the plan limits. Teachers may, however, purchase benefits whose total price tags exceed their benefit credits. In this case, the teacher must make up the difference through teacher contributions. All contributions to the VIP Program will be on a pretax basis. This means that federal and state income taxes will not be withheld on teacher contributions nor will these contributions be included in an teacher's gross wages as reported on W-2 Form. FICA tax will not be withheld. Teacher contributions will be included in the annual salary for retirement and life insurance purposes.
f.	Participants in the Dependent Care Account must meet tax law requirements in
order to participate in this plan. Contributions may only be used to reimburse a teacher for expenses actually incurred during the Plan Year for which they were contributed. Any amounts remaining in the Dependent Assistance Account at the end of the Plan Year will be forfeited.
g.	The Health Care Spending Account will operate similar to the Dependent Care
Account. The most important facts are that amounts contributed may only be used to reimburse expenses incurred during the Plan Year for which they were contributed, and amounts remaining at the end of the Plan Year will be forfeited.
h.	Teachers may elect to receive their unused benefit dollars in cash, which will be
added to their regular pay check. If the teacher elects this option, the payments will be prorated on a per-pay basis. This amount is taxable.
i.	Total teacher contributions to the Dependent Care Account and/or Health Care
Spending Account will all be prorated on a per-pay basis.
40
j.	Teachers hired during the Plan Year will make their selection in advance of
becoming eligible for VIP Program benefits. This election will be in effect for the remainder of the Plan Year (except for a qualified life status change creating a special enrollment period for individuals who did not enroll in a group health plan when they were first eligible due to the existence of alternative coverage.
D.	Comparison of VIP Medical Plans
41
	Summary of Benefits	84-85 Plan (Revised)	Alternate Plan
1.	Hospital Expenses Room, Board & General Nursing	Semi-private room rate for 365 days	Semi-private room rate for 365 days
	Diagnostic Testing Lab Work & X-rays -Inpatient	Covered in full for 365 days	Covered in full for 365 days
	Use of Hospital Outpatient facilities	Covered in full	Covered in full
	Extended care facility	Covered in full for combined hospital maximum of 365 days	Covered in full for combined hospital maximum of 365 days
2.	Physician Services Surgery-Inp ati ent	100% of the usual and reasonable charge	After $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of the next $2500, 100% thereafter
	Surgery - Outpatient	100% of the usual and reasonable charge	100% of the usual and reasonable charge
3.	Mental and Nervous Inpatient	30 days in full; then after $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of covered expenses	30 days in full; then after $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of covered expenses
	Outpatient	After $100/$200 deductible plan pays 52% of plan allowable amount for the first 20 visits per year, then 50% of the plan allowable amount	After $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 52% of plan allowable amount for the first 20 visits per year, then 50% of the plan allowable amount
4.	Other Services Ambulance Service	After $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of the next $2500; 100% thereafter	After $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of the next $2500; 100% thereafter
	Diagnostic Testing, Lab Work & X-rays - Outpatient	100% of the usual and reasonable charge	After $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of the next $2500; 100% thereafter
	Prescription Drug Outpatient	When not covered by any other plan, after $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of the next $2500; 100% thereafter	When not covered by any other plan, after $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of the next $2500; 100% thereafter
	Home Health Care	100% of the usual and reasonable charge for up to 90 days each calendar year. Physician’s services limited to one visit per day. Maximum of 40 Home Health Aid visits per calendar year.	100% of the usual and reasonable charge for up to 90 days each calendar year. Physician’s services limited to one visit per day. Maximum of 40 Home Health Aid visits per calendar year.
Comparison of VIP Medical Plans, Continued
Summary of Benefits
84-85 Plan (Revised)
Alternate Plan
42
4. Cont.	Orthopedic & Prosthetic Devices Outpatient	After $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of the next $2500; 100% thereafter	100% of the usual and reasonable charge, subject to certain limitations
	Physical Therapy & Rehabilitation Outpatient	After $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of the next $2500; 100% thereafter	After $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of the next $2500; 100% thereafter
	Voluntary Second Surgical Opinion	100% of physician’s fee; 100% of X-ray and lab fees	100% of physician’s fee; 100% of x-ray and lab fees
	Preadmission Testing	100% of hospital charges ordered by physician	100% of hospital charges ordered by physician
	Chemotherapy -Outpatient	100% of the usual and reasonable charge	After $100/$200 deductible, plan pays 80% of the next $2500; 100% thereafter
5.	Emergency Treatment Hospital Charges	100% of hospital charges within 72 hours of accidental injury or onset of serious illness	100% of hospital charges within 72 hours of accidental injury or onset of serious illness
	Physician’s Fees	100% of the usual and reasonable charges within 72 hours of accidental or onset of serious illness	100% of the usual and reasonable charges within 72 hours of accidental or onset of serious illness.
6.	Annual Deductibles	$100 per individual to a maximum of $200 per family	$100 per individual to a maximum of $200 per family
7.	Maximum Out-ofPocket Per Year Individual Family	$600.00 $1,200.00	$600.00 $1,200.00
8.	Lifetime Maximum Benefit	Basic benefits plus $1,000,000 Major Medical	Hospital benefits, plus $1,000,000 Major Medical
E.	Comparison of Dental Benefits
43
84-85 DENTAL PLAN	ALTERNATE
2ND DENTAL PLAN
		% of UCR	Deductible	% of UCR	Deductible
Oral examination		100%	No	100%	No
X-rays 100%		100%	No	100%	No
Fluoride Treatment		100%	No	100%	No
Cleaning		100%	No	100%	No
Emergency Treatment		100%	No	100%	No
Fillings (not gold foil)		100%	No	80%	Yes
Simple Extractions		100%	No	80%	Yes
Root Canal		100%	No	80%	Yes
Prosthetic Repair		100%	No	50%	Yes
Crowns		100%	No	50%	Yes
Space Maintainers		100%	No	100%	No
Surgical Extractions		100%	No	80%	Yes
Oral Surgery		100%	No	80%	Yes
Dentures and Bridges		N/A	N/A	*50%	Yes
Periodontics		N/A	N/A	80%	Yes
Orthodontia		N/A	N/A	50%	Yes
Maximum Annual Benefit		$1,000		$1,000	
Orthodontic Maximum Lifetime Benefit		N/A		$750	
Deductible		N/A		$25/Individual $75/Family	
*Subject to Missing Tooth Provision					
*Are dentures and bridges covered for teeth missing before dental coverage?		N/A		Only after satisfying a 5-year waiting period	
44
F.	Vision Program
1.	Schedule of Benefits
Vision Exam...Reasonable and Customary Charge (limited to one per 12-month period)
Type	Lens (Per Pair)		Frames	Total Allowance
Single	$41.50	+	$29.50	$71.00
Bifocal	$67.00	+	$29.50	$96.50
Double Bifocal	$100.50	+	$29.50	$130.00
Trifocal	$89.50	+	$29.50	$119.00
Aphakic	$156.50	+	$29.50	$186.00
Contact Lenses (Per pair):				
Cosmetic (in lieu of frames & lenses) Bifocal Contact Lenses Medically Required*				$71.00 $96.50 $221.00
*Following cataract surgery or when visual acuity is correctable to at least 20/70 in the better eye only by use of contact lenses
In some instances, benefits may be provided toward two vision exams during the same benefit period.
2.	Benefits are not available for:
a.	Replacement or repair of broken or lost frames and lenses (including
contacts) for which benefits were provided.
b.	Sunglasses (lenses tinted darker than #2 tint), even if prescribed -- unless
you purchase a contract specifically covering sunglasses. Photocromatic lenses are not considered sunglasses.
3.	Details
a.	This Program provides 100% of the reasonable and customary charge for a
vision exam performed by an Ophthalmologist or Optometrist.
b.	The Program entitles members to coverage of services once every 12
months, starting with the initial visit for vision services. To receive benefits, an invoice must be submitted to the insurance carrier.
45
ARTICLE 23
SICK LEAVE BANK
A.	Teachers on active duty in Howard County are eligible to contribute to a sick leave bank. Contributors will be permitted to apply for leave from the bank to cover regularly scheduled duty days for periods of personal illness, injury, or quarantine which are not only prolonged but are also catastrophic and incapacitating and which are not likely to permanently disable the teacher. New members of the sick leave bank may not access the bank until a 60 school-day waiting period has been met.
B.	The contribution on the appropriate form will be authorized by the teacher and continued
from year to year until canceled in writing by the member. Cancellation, on the proper form, may be elected at any time, and the member shall not be eligible to use the bank as of the effective cancellation date. Sick leave properly authorized for contribution to the bank will not be returned if the member effects cancellation.
C.	Contributions shall be made between July 1 and October 1. Teachers returning from an
extended leave of absence and new teachers may contribute within thirty (30) calendar days upon reassignment or employment. Teachers returning from extended sick leave shall be permitted to contribute to the bank upon approval of the committee.
D.	Annual rates of contribution shall be a maximum of one (1) day per year as determined by the Association and certified to the Superintendent prior to July 1 of each year.
E.	The maximum number of sick days that can be granted in any one fiscal year will be the
remaining number of duty days a teacher is scheduled to work. In no case will the granting of leave from the bank cause a teacher to receive more than his annual salary.
F.	Teachers must use all accumulated sick leave and all but two (2) days of accumulated
personal leave before receiving leave from the bank. Application for use of the bank shall be made on the required form and submitted to the approval committee.
G.	A three-member approval committee, appointed by the president of the Association, shall have the responsibility of receiving requests, verifying the validity of requests, recommending approval or denial of the requests, and communicating its decision to the teacher and the Superintendent/designee. The committee shall develop its rules of procedure and shall give wide distribution to said rules upon approval of the Board of Directors of the Association.
H.	The Payroll Department shall verify that sick leave is exhausted and that accrued personal leave does not exceed the 2-day maximum. Upon notification by the committee, Payroll shall credit the affected teacher with the number of days granted.
I.	If a teacher does not use all of the days granted from the bank, the unused sick leave bank
days will be returned to the bank.
J.	Bank grants will not be automatically carried over from one fiscal year to another. All
bank grants will end as of June 30 or the last duty day of the school year and must be renewed through the approval committee.
46
ARTICLE 24
GENERAL
A.	If any provision of this Agreement or any application of this Agreement to any teacher or group of teachers is held to be contrary to law, then such provision or application will not be deemed valid and subsisting, except to the extent permitted by law, but all other provisions or applications will continue in full force and effect.
B.	It is agreed that this Agreement includes all items to be requested by the Association for inclusion in the FY 2011 Board of Education Budget Requests.
C.	This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect from July 1, 2010, to June 30, 2013, and incorporates the entire understanding of the parties on all matters which were the subject of negotiations; and, during the term of this Agreement, neither party will be required to negotiate with respect to any matter whether or not covered by this Agreement and whether or not within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at the time they negotiated or executed this Agreement. This provision, however, in no way limits the implementation of the Grievance Procedure as set forth in Article III. Article 20, Salary Schedules, will be open for negotiations during FY2009.
D.	The Association recognizes and accepts responsibility to adhere to existing policies of the Board of Education not modified or changed by the expressed terms of this Agreement.
E.	This Agreement may not be modified in whole or in part by the parties except by an
instrument in writing duly executed by both parties.
F.	Each member of the negotiating unit shall receive a copy of this Agreement.
Reproduction of this Agreement shall be mutually agreed upon and the cost shared equally by the Board and the Association.
G.	“Same-sex Domestic Partner” as used throughout this Agreement means an individual approved by the Board to receive Domestic Partner Benefits under criteria established by the Board. Domestic Partner Benefits and coverages cannot begin until Same-sex Domestic Partner status is approved by the Board, and will be provided as permitted by law.
47
ARTICLE 25 REPRESENTATION FEE
A.	A teacher who chooses not to join the Association shall pay a representation fee as provided in this section.
1.	The representation fee will take effect when 75% plus one (threshold percentage) of the unit members have joined the Association as dues-paying members.
2.	If on June 15th of any fiscal year the Association attains the threshold percentage, it may institute a representation fee for the following fiscal year, in accordance with sections 3-6.
3.	The Association shall send formal notice and documentation to the Director of Staff Relations. Within 10 days of receiving the Association’s notice, the Director of Staff Relations shall in writing confirm or dispute the membership percentage. If the Director disputes the percentage, the Association and Director shall meet to review the data. The implementation date shall begin 30 days from the date of the Director’s confirmation letter.
4.	Any teacher hired after the implementation date shall pay either Association Dues or a representation fee.
5.	The Board shall begin payroll deductions for representation fees within two pay periods of receiving the teacher’s authorization for payroll deduction for representation fees from the Association.
6.	Representation fees will be prorated if the implementation date or date of hire begins after the start of the school, for that year only.
7.	Annually, the Association shall report to the Board the percentage of Association membership on June 15 of that year. The Board shall have the right to access Association and payroll records to verify the percentage.
8.	The Association must maintain at least a 75% plus one membership percentage for the representation fee to continue from year to year (“continuing threshold percentage”). If the percentage of HCEA membership falls below the threshold percentage in any year based on the June 15 figure, the Association will enter a one-year grace period. If at the end of the grace period, the percentage of HCEA membership does not equal 75% plus one based on the June 15 figure, then the representation fee shall cease at the end of that fiscal year.
If in a future year the Association again reaches the threshold percentage as outlined in section 1, the representation fee shall be initiated for all new employees hired after the new implementation date, as set forth in section 2.
48
B.	Calculation of the Representation Fee
1.	Annually but no later than the first teacher work day, the Association will determine the percentage of its members’ dues that represents the cost of “negotiations, contract administration, including grievances, and other activities” as are required under Sections 6-407(b) and (c) of the Education Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland.
2.	The Association will base this determination on a review of financial records and other documents describing the Association’s activities and will be guided by the language of the Education Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland, the United State Supreme Court decisions in Ellis v. BRAC and Abood v. Detroit Board of Education, and other relevant federal and state court decisions.
3.	The representation fee will not include the cost of political or ideological activities unrelated to collective bargaining, other activities not germane to collective bargaining, or benefits, or activities, available to or benefiting only Association members.
4.	The Association shall submit to the Board an annual audit letter from the General Counsel to the Maryland State Education Association that reflects the operational expenses of the Association and explains how the representation fee is calculated based on the audit.
C.	An employee whose religious beliefs are opposed to joining or financially supporting any collective bargaining organization is:
1.	Not required to pay a representation fee; and
2.	Required to pay an amount of money equal to the representation fee as determined under section B to a nonreligious, nonunion charity or to another charitable organization that is mutually agreed upon by the employee and the Association, and who furnishes to the Board and the Association written proof of the payment.
D.	If an employee who is required to pay a representation fee is employed in a unit position on a part-time basis or for less than a full contract year, the representation fee for the employee for said contract year will be a pro rata portion of the annual fee, based on annual salary.
E.	In the event an employee terminates employment, the Board shall deduct, when possible,
the unpaid representation fees for the current year from the employee’s final check and transmit these fees promptly to the Association.
F.	If an employee who is required to pay a representation fee fails to do so, it is solely the
responsibility of the Association to take appropriate steps - including the commencement of legal action against the employee - to collect the amount in question.
49
G.
Protest Procedure and Escrow Provisions
1.	Any employee who is obligated to pay a representation fee as described herein, shall have the right to protest and dissent from the amount of the representation fee, including the method of the assessment of the fee; the manner in which the representation fee was determined; the calculations involved; and the financial information upon which the representation fee was based. Such protests shall be handled exclusively in the manner herein.
a.	Within thirty (30) days after the cause or reason for any protest shall occur, the affected employee, for himself or herself shall file a written statement of protest with the Association and Board, in identical duplicate copies. A letter stating the employee’s grounds for objection shall be sufficient. However, any objection not filed within thirty (30) days shall be deemed to have been waived as not timely filed. Any objection to the amount of computation of the fee in any school year must be filed within thirty (30) days after notice of that fee.
b.	A dissenting employee timely filing his or her own written objection shall be entitled to have his or her protest expeditiously resolved by an impartial arbitrator. The impartial arbitrator shall be selected by the Association and the employee and the dispute resolved as follows:
1)	The employee shall file his or her protest in writing with the Association and the Board within thirty (30) days after receiving notice of the representation fee. The protesting employee shall state the basis for the protest. The written protest may be sent via certified mail, registered mail, or hand delivered to both the Association and the Board.
2)	The Association may answer the objections of all employees in a single written response, but such response shall be placed in either the interdepartmental mail or regular mail within thirty (30) days after the objections period that is referred to in section G1a of this Addendum has expired.
3)	If no resolution is reached, the Association will request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to provide a list of seven (7) arbitrators who are each members of the National Academy of Arbitrators. The selection of the arbitrator will be made by alternate strikes from the list furnished by FMCS until one name remains who shall be the arbitrator to hear and determine the objections of all employees who file timely written protests. The employees shall have the right to exercise the first strike. However, if the objecting employees cannot agree on a single spokesperson to strike for an arbitrator, then the Association may request either the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service or the Director of the Maryland State Mediation Service to assist in selecting an arbitrator, either by striking for an arbitrator or by choosing one name off of the list of seven provided by the FMCS.
50
4)	The protesting employees and the Association shall each be solely responsible for their own attorney’s fees and other representation costs and shall equally split all arbitration related costs.
5)	The arbitration shall consolidate the objections of all employees and shall issue one opinion to determine their claims. To the extent permitted by law, the decision of the arbitration shall be final and binding on all protesting employees and the Association.
6)	The arbitrator shall be limited in authority to rule upon the issue or issues stated in the written protest submitted by the protesting employee. The arbitration may refer to and rely on existing legal authority on agency or representation fees outside of the Addendum when ruling on the amount of the fee.
2.	Written notice of protest by an employee shall not relieve him or her of the obligation to pay the representation fee. However, immediately upon receipt of the notice of protest, the Association shall place the amount of the protesting employee’s representation fee which is in dispute in an escrow fund, and shall continue to place the challenged portion of representation fee in escrow until the protest is resolve. The Association shall be obligated only to so segregate the funds of protesting employees.
3.	The fund shall be maintained by the Association at an independent bank or trust company and the agreement therefore shall provide that the escrow account be interest bearing. The Association shall not invade the fund until the receipt of the opinion of the arbitrator, and then only in accordance with that decision.
4.	The Association shall furnish protesting employees with verification of the terms of the escrow arrangement and, on reasonable request, the status of the fund as reported by the bank.
5.	When issuing a decision and award, the arbitrator shall determine the disbursement of the disputed representation fee held in escrow and the Association shall not release the funds to its general account or to a protesting employee except by direction of an arbitrator or by mutual agreement of the Association and the protesting employees.
H. The Association shall indemnify and save the Board harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits, or any other forms of liability that shall rise out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Board for the purposes of complying with any of the provisions of this Article, or in reliance of any list notice, or assignment furnished under any such provisions, including the representation fee language. The Association assumes full responsibility for all aspects of the administration of this section, including, without limitation, the calculation, assessment, collection, and disposition of funds.
51
ARTICLE 26 DURATION
Unless otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective as of July 1, 2010 and shall continue in full force and effect through June 30, 2013.
In witness whereof, the parties hereunto set their hands and seals this 14th day of June, 2012.
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF HOWARD COUNTY
Note: This copy includes the language and salary changes reflected in the Addendums to the Master Agreement between The Howard County Board of Education and The Howard County Education Association, dated 10/21/11 and 8/18/11.
52