COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Between
INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ELEVATOR CONSTRUCTORS LOCAL NO. 2
And
CITY OF CHICAGO
Effective July 1, 2007 Through
June 30, 2017
Ratified by City Council on: December 12, 2007
356627.1
CITY OF CHICAGO
AGREEMENT WITH INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ELEVATOR CONSTRUCTORS LOCAL NO. 2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ARTICLE 1	- RECOGNITION........................................ 1
Section 1.1................................................1
ARTICLE 2	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.................................. 2
Section 2.1................................................2
ARTICLE 3	- NON-DISCRIMINATION................................. 3
Section 3.1	Equal Employment Opportunities.............. 3
Section 3.2	No Discrimination........................... 3
Section 3.3	Grievance of Alleged Violation.............. 3
Section 3.4	Reasonable Accommodation.................... 4
ARTICLE 4	- WAGES.............................................. 4
Section 4.1	Prevailing Wage Rates....................... 4
Section 4.2	Prevailing Rate Adjustments................. 4
Section 4.3	Non-Prevailing Wage Rates Governing First
Five-Years of this Agreement (07/01/2007 to 06/30/2012)...............................5
Section 4.4	Non-Prevailing Wage Rates Governing
Second Five-Year Term (07/01/2012 to 06/30/2017)..................................6
Section 4.5	Retroactivity............................... 7
Section 4.6	Out of Grade Pay............................ 7
Section 4.7	Payment of Wages............................ 8
ARTICLE 5	- HOURS	OF WORK AND OVERTIME....................... 11
Section 5.1	The Workday and Workweek................... 11
Section 5.2	Overtime................................... 12
Section 5.3	Overtime Equalization...................... 12
Section 5.4	Reporting Pay.............................. 13
Section 5.5	Call-In Pay.................................13
Section 5.6	Emergency Call Pay......................... 14
ARTICLE 6	- HOLIDAYS.......................................... 14
Section 6.1	Current Holidays........................... 14
Section 6.2	Payment for Holiday........................ 16
Section 6.3	Failure to Report to	Work on Scheduled
Holiday.................................... 16
Section 6.4	Holiday Observance......................... 16
356627.1

ARTICLE 7	- VACATIONS......................................... 17
Section 7.1	Amount..................................... 17
Section 7.2	Pro Rata Vacation.......................... 17
Section 7.3	Forfeit of Vacation........................ 18
Section 7.4	Employees Laid-Off or Discharged........... 19
Section 7.5	Rate of Vacation Pay....................... 19
Section 7.6	Selection...................................20
Section 7.7	Reciprocity With Other Agencies............ 21
Section 7.8	Non-Consecutive Vacation	Days.............. 22
ARTICLE 8	- CONTINUOUS SERVICE................................ 23
Section 8.1	Definition..................................23
Section 8.2	Interruption in Service.................... 23
Section 8.3	Reciprocity................................ 24
Section 8.4	Break in Service........................... 24
Section 8.5	Probationary Employment.................... 25
ARTICLE 9	- GROUP HEALTH, VISION CARE, DENTAL, LIFE AND ACCIDENT BENEFITS............................................. 26
Section 9.1	26
Section 9.2	Joint Labor Management Cooperation Committee	on	Health	Care	 29
Section 9.3	30
Section 9.4	30
ARTICLE 10	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE................................ 31
Section 10.1	Bereavement Pay............................ 31
Section 10.2	Military Leave............................. 32
Section 10.3	Jury Duty Leave/Subpoena................... 33
Section 10.4	Sick Leave................................. 33
Section 10.5	Personal Leave............................. 34
Section 10.6	Duty Disability............................ 35
Section 10.7	Medical Leave.............................. 36
Section 10.8	Union Leave................................ 38
ARTICLE 11	- DISCIPLINE AND	GRIEVANCE/ARBITRATION............ 38
Section 11.1	38
Section 11.2	Procedure For Department Review of
Disciplinary Action Including Suspension... 43
Section 11.3	Grievance and	Arbitration	 45
Section 11.4	Conduct of Disciplinary	Investigations....... 55
ARTICLE 12	- NO STRIKES-NO LOCKOUTS........................... 62
Section 12.1	No Strikes................................. 62
Section 12.2	Union Efforts.............................. 62
Section 12.3	Discipline................................. 63
Section 12.4	No Lockout................................. 63
356627.1

ARTICLE 13	- DUES CHECK-OFF AND FAIR SHARE.................... 63
Section 13.1	Indemnification/Authorization............. 63
Section 13.2	Fair Share................................ 64
Section 13.3	Right of Non-Association.................. 64
Section 13.4	Condition of Employment................... 64
ARTICLE 14	- MISCELLANEOUS.................................... 65
Section 14.1	Job Titles................................ 65
Section 14.2	Traditional Work.......................... 66
Section 14.3	Jurisdictional Disputes................... 67
Section 14.4	Deferred Compensation..................... 69
Section 14.5	Rules of Conduct Changes.................. 69
Section 14.6	Safety.....................................69
Section 14.7	Information to Union...................... 71
Section 14.8	Subcontracting............................ 72
Section 14.9	Automobile Reimbursement.................. 73
Section 14.10	Filling of Permanent	Vacancies............ 74
ARTICLE 15	- LAYOFFS/RECALL................................... 76
ARTICLE 16	- SEPARABILITY..................................... 76
ARTICLE 17	- UNION REPRESENTATION............................. 76
Section 17.1	Union Rights.............................. 76
Section 17.2	Right of Access........................... 77
ARTICLE 18	- DRUG AND ALCOHOL PROGRAM......................... 77
Section 18.1	Policy Statement.......................... 77
Section 18.2	Definitions................................78
Section 18.3	Disciplinary Action....................... 79
Section 18.4	Drug and Alcohol Testing.................. 80
Section 18.5	Employee Assistance	Program............... 83
ARTICLE 19	- JOINT APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING PROGRAM INITIATIVE.................................................... 83
Section 19.1	83
Section 19.2	84
ARTICLE 20	- RATIFICATION	AND TERMINATION.................... 85
ARTICLE 21	- TERM OF AGREEMENT................................ 86
SIDE LETTER - JOINT APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING PROGRAM INITIATIVE:	LMCC	REFERRAL...................... 90
SIDE LETTER - HEALTH CARE PLAN: LMCC REFERRAL................. 92
SIDE LETTER - FOUR 10-HOUR DAY WORKWEEK....................... 93
iii
356627.1
CITY OF CHICAGO
AGREEMENT WITH INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ELEVATOR CONSTRUCTORS LOCAL NO. 2
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is entered into by and between the City of Chicago, an Illinois Municipal Corporation (hereinafter called the "Employer") and the International Union of Elevator Constructors, Local No. 2 (hereinafter called "the Union"), for the purpose of establishing, through the process of collective bargaining certain provisions covering wages, and other terms and conditions of employment for the employees represented by the Union.
In recognition of the above, the Employer and the Union agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1 RECOGNITION
Section 1.1
The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in the following job classifications:
Elevator Inspector
Assistant Chief Elevator Inspector
The Union is authorized to bargain collectively for such employees with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours and other terms and conditions of employment. The term "employee" as used herein, refers to the above job classifications, unless specified to the contrary.
1
356627.1
ARTICLE 2 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 2.1
The Union recognizes that certain rights, powers, and responsibilities belong solely to and are exclusively vested in the Employer, except only as they may be subject to a specific and express obligation of this Agreement. Among these rights, powers, and responsibilities, but not wholly inclusive, are all matters concerning or related to the management of the Employer's operations and the administration thereof, and the direction of the working forces, including (but not limited to) the right to suspend, discipline, or discharge for just cause; to layoff by reason of lack of work, by reason of lack of funds or work, or abolition of a position, or material changes in duties or organization of the Employer's operations, or other economic reasons; to hire, classify, transfer and assign work, promote, demote, or recall; to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations, to maintain order and efficiency; to schedule the hours of work; to determine the services, processes, and extent of the Employer's operation, the types and quantities of machinery, equipment and materials to be used, the nature, extent, duration, character and method of operation, including (but not limited to) the right to contract out or subcontract; the right to determine the number of employees and how they shall be employed, and the quality and quantity of workmanship and work required to insure maximum efficiency of operations; to establish and enforce fair production standards; and to
2
356627.1
determine the size, number and location of its departments and facilities. All of the provisions of this Article are vested exclusively in the Employer, except as expressly abridged by a specific provision of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 3 NON-DISCRIMINATION
Section 3.1	Equal Employment Opportunities
The Union agrees to work cooperatively with the Employer to insure equal employment opportunities as required by law in all aspects of the Employer's personnel policies, and nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted to cause a negative effect on said efforts. It is understood and agreed that this Article shall neither affect nor be interpreted to adversely effect the seniority provisions of this Agreement.
Section 3.2	No Discrimination
Neither the Employer nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee covered by this Agreement in a manner which would violate any applicable laws because of race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, mental and/or physical handicap or activity on behalf of the Union.
Section 3.3	Grievance of Alleged Violation
Grievances by employees alleging violations of this Article shall be resolved through Step II of the Grievance procedure of this Agreement, but shall not be subject to arbitration unless mutually agreed by the parties.
3
356627.1
Section 3.4	Reasonable Accommodation
In the event the Employer shall be required to make a reasonable accommodation under the Americans With Disabilities Act ("ADA") to the disability of an applicant or incumbent employee that may be in conflict with the rights of an employee under this Agreement, the Employer shall bring this matter to the attention of the union. The provisions of Article 11 of this Agreement shall be available, and the Arbitrator may balance the Employer's obligations under the ADA and this Agreement and the employee's rights under this Agreement, provided that no incumbent employee shall be displaced by such decision of the Arbitrator.
ARTICLE 4 WAGES
Section 4.1	Prevailing Wage Rates
Effective July 1, 2007, employees covered by this Agreement shall continue to receive the hourly rate being paid to crafts or job classifications doing similar kinds of work in Cook County pursuant to the formula currently used by the United States Department of Labor in administering the Davis-Bacon Act as is currently being paid to said employees as set forth in Appendix A appended to and made a part of this Agreement. Section 4.2 Prevailing Rate Adjustments
Effective on July 1 of each year of this Agreement beginning in 2007, through the period ending June 30, 2017, the
4
356627.1
wage rate referred to in the immediately preceding section shall be adjusted to reflect the hourly wage rates effective on such dates being paid to crafts or job classifications doing similar work in Cook County pursuant to the formula specified in Section 4.1 above and as set forth in Appendix A. In the event the hourly wage rates effective July of each year covered by this Agreement are established at an effective date later than July 1, then such rates, when established, shall be paid as of said effective date. In no event will the Employer adjust said wage rates more than one time in any calendar year.
Section 4.3	Non-Prevailing Wage Rates Governing First Five-Years of this Agreement (07/01/2007 to 06/30/2012)
Effective the following dates, the City will make the wage adjustments below for all employees who are in non-prevailing rate classifications and who are either on the payroll as of the effective date or on lay-off with recall rights:
Year 1:
•	Effective 07/01/2007 - 1%
•	Effective 01/01/2008 - 2.25%
Year 2:
•	Effective 01/01/2009 - 3%
Year 3:
•	Effective 01/01/2010 - 3%
5
356627.1
Year 4:
•	Effective 01/01/2011 - 3.25%
Year 5:
•	Effective 01/01/2012 - 3.5%
Section 4.4	Non-Prevailing Wage Rates Governing Second Five-Year Term (07/01/2012 to 06/30/2017)
Effective the following dates, the City will make the wage adjustments below for all employees who are in non-prevailing rate classifications and who are either on the payroll as of the effective date or on lay-off with recall rights:
Year 6:
•	Effective 01/01/2013 - 2%
Year 7:
•	Effective 01/01/2014 - 2%
Year 8:
•	Effective 01/01/2015 - 2%
Year 9:
•	Effective 01/01/2016 - 2%
Year 10:
• Effective 01/01/2017 - 2%
“Me Too” Clause: If a majority of City unionized employees in non-prevailing wage rate classifications• ** receive an across-the-board percentage increase in their regular base rate of pay in any contract year higher than the increase set forth above in
6
356627.1
any such year, employees in non-prevailing rate classifications covered by this Agreement shall have their wage adjustment set forth above increased by the difference between the above increase and the higher across-the-board percentage increase in any such year. Similarly, if a majority of City unionized employees in non-prevailing wage rate classifications** receive a lump sum payment in any contract year, employees in nonprevailing rate classifications covered by this Agreement shall receive the same lump sum payment in any such year. The parties agree to confer regarding the timing, amount and implementation of any wage adjustment or lump sum payment under this Section prior to such adjustment being paid.
**Exclusive of sworn employees of the Chicago Police Department and uniformed members of the Chicago Fire Department.
Section 4.5	Retroactivity
The increases set forth in Article 4, Sections 4.1 and 4.3, are payable to affected employees who, as of August 2, 2007, are either on the payroll, or are on approved leave, or are on layoff with recall rights, or are seasonal employees who are eligible for rehire, or are former employees who retired effective between July 1,	2007 and the date of final
ratification of the Agreement by the City Council, inclusive.
Section 4.6	Out of Grade Pay
An employee who is directed to and does perform substantially all of the duties and responsibilities of a higher
7
356627.1
rated job within the bargaining unit shall be paid at the higher rate or classification consistent with his own tenure for all such time from the first day of the assignment. The Employer agrees that it will make such assignments for not less than an employee's full work day. Such payment shall be made on the next regular pay day, or as soon thereafter as is possible, but in no event later than the pay period following the pay period in which the payment was earned.
The time limits for such individual assignments to higherrated jobs shall be ninety (90) days, except where a regular incumbent is on leave of absence, in which case the time limit shall be six (6) months. The time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties. To the extent the Employer continues to require the performance of the duties of the higher-rated job beyond the time limits set forth herein, the assignment shall be treated as a “permanent vacancy” within the meaning of Section 14.10 of this Agreement, and shall be posted for bid in accordance with the terms of that Section.
Section 4.7	Payment of Wages
(a)	All regular base wages will be paid to employees not later than the next regular pay day following the end of the payroll period in which it is earned. All overtime or premium pay shall be paid to employees not later than the second regular pay day following the end of the payroll period in which it is earned. In the event of an arbitration involving a dispute arising solely under this
8
356627.1
Section, the losing party will pay the entire amount of the arbitrator’s fee.
(b)	In the event an employee's pay check, at the time specified in paragraph (a) above, fails to include all of the regular base, overtime and/or premium pay to which he/she is entitled, the Department will correct that shortage provided the employee promptly notifies the Department's timekeeper in writing. Employees shall submit a payroll dispute to the Department timekeeper on the “Employee Payroll Inquiry Form” attached hereto as Appendix B. The employee’s submission of such Form shall toll the period for processing a grievance filed by the employee or Union over such dispute. If the Department concludes that there is a shortage in the employee's paycheck, and if the amount in question exceeds $100.00, the Department will submit a supplemental payroll to the Comptroller to cover the shortage, and will issue the employee a check in that amount on the next scheduled check/deposit advice delivery date after the timekeeper is notified of the employee's complaint. Shortages less than $100.00 will be added to the employee's next regular pay check.
(c)	Should an employee not receive this supplemental check (for a sum greater than $100.00) within the aforementioned check/deposit advice delivery date period, the Employer will pay to the employee the sum of $5.00 for every pay period thereafter until the full supplemental check is received.
9
356627.1
(d)	It is understood that pay shortages relating to newly-hired employees, persons returning from leaves of absence (including but not limited to duty disability), overtime earned under the City's emergency snow removal program, and inaccuracies due to changes in payroll deductions, are excluded from the provisions of this Section. This paragraph does not supersede any other payment obligations with respect to the payments referred to in this paragraph which may be contained elsewhere in this Agreement.
(e)	In order to provide a basis for ongoing discussion concerning the City's payroll practices, the parties will form a Labor Management Committee consisting of four (4) persons appointed respectively by the City and by the Coalition. The City's members of the Committee will consist of representatives from the Department of Personnel, the Office of Budget and Management, the Comptroller and the Director of Labor Relations.	The
Coalition, as it shall determine, shall select four (4) representatives to serve as members of the Committee. The Committee will meet not less than quarterly, or more frequently as the need may arise, to review ongoing issues regarding payroll, compliance with this Section, or other issues of mutual concern which may arise during the life of the parties' Agreement. In addition, at the request of the Coalition, the City may include from time-to-time a representative of the Coalition at the Comptroller’s weekly
10
356627.1
staff meetings with Department heads to review and address pending payroll inquiries from bargaining unit employees.
ARTICLE 5 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 5.1	The Workday and Workweek
This Article shall be to calculate overtime and shall not be a guarantee of work or hours for any day or week.
The normal work week shall consist of five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days Monday through Friday, and two (2) consecutive days off, except where the Employer's operations require different scheduling needs. The Employer will notify the Union of these exceptions.
The work week shall be a regular recurring seven (7) day period beginning at 12:00 midnight (one minute after 11:59 P.M. Saturday) Sunday and ending at 12:00 midnight the following Sunday. The normal work day shall begin at 8:00 A.M. and end at 4:30 P.M., as determined by the Employer.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is agreed that the Employer may change the established starting time of the Monday through Friday work day for a department, bureau, work unit, crew or individual upon fourteen (14) days written notice to the Union and affected employees, and discussion with the Union. Said starting times shall not be scheduled more than two (2) hours before the regular starting times currently in effect in this Agreement. All such changes, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, shall be in effect for a minimum of one (1) week, and shall provide for the same starting times each day of that
11
356627.1
period. No employee shall be placed on a split shift without agreement by the Union. Failure to comply with this provision shall result in the payment of appropriate premium time to affected employees.
Section 5.2	Overtime
All work performed in excess of forty (40) hours worked per week; or in excess of 8 hours worked per day when the employee has forty (40) hours of work or excused absences; or on Saturday as such, when Saturday is not part of the employee's regular work week; or on the sixth consecutive day worked, shall be paid for at two (2) times the regular straight time hourly rate of pay. All work performed on Sunday, when Sunday is not part of the employee's regular work week; or the seventh consecutive day worked, shall be paid for at two (2) times the regular hourly rate of pay. Such overtime shall be computed on the basis of completed fifteen (15) minute segments. Employees exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act shall not be eligible for overtime under this Section. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime and/or premium pay. Daily and/or weekly overtime and/or premium pay shall not be paid for the same hours worked.
Section 5.3	Overtime Equalization
A reasonable amount of overtime and/or premium time shall be a condition of continued employment. Overtime and/or premium time referred to in this Agreement shall be offered first to the employee doing the job. All overtime will be distributed as equally as feasible over a reasonable period of time among the
12
356627.1
employees within the same classification and within the same work location.
Section 5.4	Reporting Pay
When an employee reports for his or her regularly scheduled shift, the employee shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours work or pay at the employee's regular straight time hourly rate, unless the employee was told at least three hours prior to his or her normal starting time not to report for work, except for reasons beyond the Employer's control. To be eligible for pay under this provision, employees must advise the designated person within the Department of his or her current telephone number.
If the employee works more than two (2) hours, he or she shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours work or pay for that day. If the employee works more than four (4) hours, he or she shall be guaranteed eight (8) hours work or pay for that day. An employee who does not complete a normal eight (8) hour shift because he or she is sent home by the Employer shall have the option of using a portion of accrued vacation, personal or compensatory time for that day upon notice to the Employer. Section 5.5 Call-In Pay
Except as otherwise agreed in writing, employees called in outside of their regular working hours shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay at the appropriate overtime rate from the time that they arrive at their workplace.
13
356627.1
The term “call-in pay” as used in this Section shall refer to an employee being brought back to work outside of his/her normal work day, and shall not refer to any situation where the employee is brought into work or required to stay at work during periods which are contiguous to his/her regularly scheduled shift.
Section 5.6	Emergency Call Pay
In the event a General Foreman or Foreman is directed by the Employer to respond to emergency calls from home and outside of his or her regular working hours, he or she will be granted compensatory time at the appropriate rate for all verified time spent responding to the emergency from home, with a minimum of 15 minutes of compensatory time to be granted in any calendar day on which any such emergency responses were required, up to a maximum of two hours of compensatory time in any calendar day.
ARTICLE 6 HOLIDAYS
Section 6.1	Current Holidays
(a)	Full-time salaried employees shall receive the following days off without any change in their regular salary:
1.	New Year's Day
2.	Dr. Martin Luther King's Birthday
3.	Casimir Pulaski Day
4.	Lincoln's Birthday
5.	Washington's Birthday
6.	Memorial Day
7.	Independence Day
8.	Labor Day
9.	Columbus Day
10.	Veteran's Day
11.	Thanksgiving Day
14
356627.1
12.	Christmas Day
(b)	Employees covered by this Agreement including probationary employees shall be entitled to one (1) paid personal day in each year of this Agreement. At the employee's option, the personal day may be scheduled in accordance with the vacation selection procedures set forth in Article 7 of this Agreement. If the employee elects not to schedule said personal day in advance under the vacation selection procedures as provided above, such day shall be designated by the employee and shall not be denied by the Employer. If the employee is required or allowed to work on such designated day, the employee shall receive the appropriate holiday premium rate. An employee may elect to carry over the personal day to the following calendar year provided such carry over shall not exceed five (5) personal days. Employees may not designate such personal day in connection with an existing holiday, Good Friday, or a vacation schedule unless requested by the employee upon ten (10) days written notice and approved by the Employer. New employees who commence work for the Employer after June 30 shall not be eligible for this personal day until the following calendar year.
(c)	The benefits set forth in (a) above shall be paid provided the employee is in pay status the full scheduled work day immediately preceding and the full scheduled work day immediately following such holiday, or is absent from work on one or both of those days with the Employer's permission; such permission shall not be unreasonably denied.
15
356627.1
Section 6.2	Payment for Holiday
If an employee is scheduled to work on any calendar holiday as specified in Section 6.1, he/she shall be paid at the rate of two (2) times (which includes holiday pay) his/her normal hourly rate for all hours worked.
If the employee is not required to work on a calendar holiday specified in Section 6.1, such employee shall be paid eight hours at straight time for such holiday.
All holiday time shall be considered time worked for the purposes of computing overtime except where the holiday falls on the employee's day off.
Section 6.3	Failure to Report to Work on Scheduled Holiday
If an employee is scheduled to work on a holiday and fails to report to work, the employee shall forfeit his/her right to pay for that holiday unless his/her absence is due to illness, injury, or other emergency.
Section 6.4	Holiday Observance
Except for employees whose regularly scheduled work week includes Saturday and/or Sunday, said holidays which fall on Saturday will be observed the Friday before the holiday; said holidays which fall on Sunday will be observed on the Monday after the holiday. For employees whose regularly scheduled work week includes Saturday and/or Sunday, said holidays which fall on either Saturday or Sunday will be observed on that day.
Whenever said holiday falls during an employee's vacation period the Employer shall have the option of granting the employee an extra day's pay or an extra day of vacation at a
16
356627.1
time mutually agreed upon between the employee and the department head, provided the employee works the full scheduled workday immediately preceding and the full scheduled workday immediately following such vacation period, unless such absence is for a reason the Employer finds to be valid.
ARTICLE 7 VACATIONS
Section 7.1	Amount
Employees shall be eligible for paid vacations as of January 1 of each year following the year in which they were employed. An employee will earn the following amounts of paid vacation, based on such employee's continuous service prior to July 1, following his/her January 1 eligibility.
Continuous
Service Prior to July l	Vacation
Less than 6 years	13	days
6 years or more, but less than 14 years	18	days
14 years or more	23	days
After 24 years	24	days
After 25 years	25	days
Section 7.2	Pro Rata Vacation
An employee shall be eligible for pro rata vacation if:
1.	The employee did not have twelve (12) months of continuous service in the preceding calendar year and is on the payroll as of January 1 of the current calendar year; or
17
356627.1
2.	The employee was separated from employment, other than for cause, during a calendar year in which the employee did not have twelve (12) months of continuous service.
The amount of pro rata vacation is determined by dividing the number of months of continuous service the full-time employee worked in the previous/current calendar year, whichever is applicable, by 12; the resulting figure is multiplied by the amount of paid vacation for which the employee is eligible in Section 7.1 above. Any fraction is rounded off to the nearest whole number of days. Employees separated from employment, other than for cause, will be paid on a supplemental payroll as soon as practicable following the last day worked.
Part-time employees who work at least 80 hours per month earn vacation on a pro rata basis calculated in accordance with the formula used by the Employer in accordance with past practice.
Section 7.3	Forfeit of Vacation
All earned vacation leave shall be forfeited unless (1) the employee was denied vacation by the employer, or (2) the employee is on an approved leave of absence, or (3) the employee elects in writing to carry over up to three such vacation days for use individually or consecutively during the next vacation year, provided that notice of such election shall be given to the employer before December 15 of the vacation year. Such carry over vacation days must be scheduled upon mutual agreement of the employer, which agreement shall not be unreasonably denied or withheld, and such carry over days must be taken on or
18
356627.1
before April 30 of the next vacation year (or within six (6) months, in the case of an employee’s return from an approved leave of absence). Employees on duty disability shall retain any vacation leave earned prior to being placed on duty disability leave, together with all vacation time earned during the period of duty disability for the twelve (12) months following the date in which the person became disabled, and shall be entitled to use such vacation time within twelve (12) months following their return to work.
Section 7.4	Employees Laid-Off or Discharged
Employees who are terminated for cause are not entitled to any vacation pay not taken. Employees shall not earn vacation credit for any period during which they are on layoff or leave of absence without pay in excess of 30 days (except where such leave was adjudged eligible for duty disability) or engaged in conduct in violation of Article 12 of this Agreement. In the event of the death of an eligible employee, the surviving widow, widower or estate shall be entitled to any vacation pay to which the deceased employee was entitled.
Section 7.5	Rate of Vacation Pay
The rate of vacation pay shall be computed by multiplying the employee's straight time hourly rate of pay in effect for the employee's regular job at the time the vacation is being taken, times 8 hours per day, times the number of days vacation to which the employee is entitled. Salaried employees shall receive their regular salary in effect at the time the scheduled vacation is taken.
19
356627.1
Section 7.6	Selection
Vacation picks will be granted by classification seniority, in the department, provided however, the Department Head shall have the right to determine the number and scheduling of crews and employees who can be on vacation at any one time without hindering the operation of the Department. The Department will not designate any time or period during the calendar year when eligible employees would be prohibited from scheduling and taking vacation time.
Employees shall make vacation picks at a time and in the manner currently provided for by their Department. The Department will respond to the employees' request for specific vacation dates within a reasonable period of time after the request is made, but not more than fourteen (14) days from the date the request is received by the Department, except in cases where the request is made for a vacation to be scheduled within fourteen (14) days. The Department will not arbitrarily cancel an approved vacation selection absent a severe emergency situation caused by an act of God (e.g., snow, flood, storms), a severe manpower shortage which may seriously hinder the Department's operations, or where an employee possesses a unique skill indispensable to the immediate performance of a Department's operation. Any such cancellation of the vacation pick shall result in the payment of the vacation pay (thereby reducing the total of the employee’s accrued vacation time) plus payment to the employee of the appropriate pay rate for all hours worked as if it were a normal work day, or for a normal
20
356627.1
work day, whichever is greater, unless the employee voluntarily agrees to reschedule the vacation days lost.
Cancellation of approved vacation requests which would result in serious provable financial loss to an employee shall occur only in the most extreme emergencies. In the event of such cancellation, the Employer will reimburse the employee for reasonable losses incurred as a direct result of the cancellation, (e.g., cost of rescheduling airline tickets, deposit forfeitures, and the like).
Section 7.7	Reciprocity With Other Agencies
Any employee of the City of Chicago hired prior to February 13, 1986, who has rendered service to the County of Cook, the Chicago Park District, the Chicago Housing Authority, the Forest Preserve District, the Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago, the State of Illinois, the Chicago Board of Education, the City Colleges of Chicago, Community College District 508, the Chicago Transit Authority, the Public Building Commission of Chicago, the Chicago Urban Transportation District, and the Regional Transportation Authority, shall have the right to have the period of such service credited and counted for the purpose of computing the number of years of service as an employee of the City for vacations, provided that such service has been continuous service. However, vacation time accrued while working for another public agency is not transferable. Employees hired after February 13, 1986, who render service for any other employer as stated above shall have the right to have the period of such service credited and
21
356627.1
counted for the purpose of computing the number of years of service as an employee of the City for vacations, provided a majority of other employees of the Employer receive such credit. Section 7.8 Non-Consecutive Vacation Days
Employees may receive up to five of their vacation days one or more day(s) at a time as days off in each year. Such days off shall be scheduled pursuant to Section 7.6 above. Such day(s) off shall be approved by the employee's supervisor and such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. If the employee seeks such days so late in the vacation year that the employee's supervisor cannot reasonably grant the employee's request, such days shall be scheduled by the Employer prior to the year-end.
Employees may designate and use at their option up to five (5) of their vacation days in each year of this Agreement as sick days to cover periods of bonafide medical illness. The Employer reserves the right to ask the employee to furnish proof of said illness. An employee desiring to use vacation days as sick days under this provision shall inform the representative of the Employer who employees are told is designated for such purposes of that fact at the time he/she calls in to report an illness. Salaried employees who currently are receiving sick days under this Agreement shall be ineligible to use vacation days as sick days while they have available unused sick days.
22
356627.1
ARTICLE 8 CONTINUOUS SERVICE
Section 8.1	Definition
Continuous service means continuous paid employment from the employee's last date of hire, without a break or interruption in such paid employment. In addition, an employee earns continuous service credit even though he or she is not paid for:
1.	An unpaid leave of absence of one year or less or layoff of 30 days or less; or
2.	An absence where the employee is adjudged eligible for duty disability compensation.
Section 8.2	Interruption in Service
(a)	Non-seasonal employees who work a minimum of eighty (80) hours per month shall be credited with continuous service for the time worked. Continuous service credit will not be earned for:
(1)	absences without leave
(2)	absences due to suspension
(3)	Unpaid leaves of absence for more than 30 days or layoff for more than 30 days, unless employees are allowed to accumulate seniority under this Agreement.
(b)	Seasonal employment of 120 days or less in any calendar year shall not be credited toward continuous service for the time worked.
(c)	Seasonal employment in excess of 120 days in any calendar year shall be credited toward continuous service.
23
356627.1
Section 8.3	Reciprocity
Employees hired prior to February 13, 1986, who have rendered service to the County of Cook, the Chicago Park District, the Forest Preserve District, the Chicago Housing Authority, the Metropolitan Sanitary District of Greater Chicago, the State of Illinois, the Chicago Board of Education, City Colleges of Chicago, Community College District 508, the Chicago Transit Authority, Public Building Commission of Chicago, the Chicago Urban Transportation District and the Regional Transportation Authority shall have the period of such service credited and counted for the purpose of advancement within longevity salary schedules. However, employees hired after February 13, 1986, who render service for any other employer as stated above shall have the right to have the period of such service credited and counted for the purpose of advancement within longevity salary schedules provided a majority of other employees of the Employer receive such credit. Section 8.4 Break in Service
Notwithstanding the provisions of any ordinance or rule to the contrary, continuous service of an employee is broken, the employment relationship is terminated, and the employee shall have no right to be rehired, if the employee quits, is discharged, retires, is absent for five (5) consecutive work days without notifying the employee's authorized Employer representative unless the circumstances preclude the Employee,
24
356627.1
or someone on his behalf, from giving such notice, does not actively work for the Employer for twelve (12) months (except for approved full time Union representative leaves or medical leaves of absence and duty disability leaves), or is on layoff for more than twelve (12) consecutive months if the employee has less than five (5) years of service at the time of the layoff, or is on layoff for more than two (2) years if the employee has five (5) or more years of service at the time of the layoff.
Section 8.5	Probationary Employment
New employees will be regarded as probationary employees for the first six (6) months of their employment and will receive no seniority or continuous service credit during such probationary period. Probationary employees continuing in the service of the Employer after six (6) months shall be career service employees and shall have their seniority made retroactive to the date of their original hiring. Probationary employees may be disciplined or discharged as exclusively determined by the Employer and such Employer action shall not be subject to the grievance procedures, provided that, if the Employer, within its discretion, rehires a former employee who did not complete his/her probationary period within one year from the employee's termination, and said former employee had served 90 days or more of his/her probationary period, all time previously served in the probationary period shall be counted for purposes of determining when the said employee completes his/her probationary period. A probationary employee who has served 90 days or more of his/her probationary period and who is
25
356627.1
laid off shall be given preference over other applicants for employment in the same job title in the department from which he/she was laid off, so long as he/she does not refuse an offer of employment, and does not suffer a break in service under Section 8.4 of this Agreement.
Probationary employees shall not be eligible for dental or vision insurance but shall receive all other benefits under this Agreement. Probationary employees shall be compensated at the same rate as career service employees.
ARTICLE 9 GROUP HEALTH, VISION CARE, DENTAL, LIFE AND ACCIDENT BENEFITS
Section 9.1
a)	The Employer shall provide to employees and their eligible dependents Group Health, Vision Care, Dental, Life ($25,000) and Accident benefits as provided to a majority of other employees of the City under the same terms and conditions applicable to said other employees, provided further, said benefits shall be at no cost to employees and their eligible dependents.
b)	Employees who participate in the Employer; medical care plan or an HMO shall make the following contributions toward their health care coverage:
1)	employee medical contributions are based on a composite 1.6% of base salary for single, employee and one, and family levels of coverage as specified below. For example, the contributions at selected salary levels per pay period are as follows:
26
356627.1
ANNUAL FAMILY SALARY	SINGLE 1.0281%	EMPLOYEE+1	
		1.5797%	1.9705
Up to $30,000	12.50	19.00	22.00
$30,001	12.85	19.75	24.63
$40,000	17.14	26.33	32.84
$50,000	21.42	32.91	41.05
$60,000	25.70	39.49	49.26
$70,000	29.99	46.07	57.47
$80,000	34.27	52.66	65.68
$89,999	38.55	59.24	73.89
$90,000 +	38.60	59.30	73.95
All contributions shall be made on a pre-tax basis and are
payable on a per pay period basis.
2)	effective July 1, 2006 employee medical contributions are based on a composite 2.0% of base salary for single, employee and one, and family levels of coverage as specified below. For example, the contributions at selected salary levels per pay period are as follows:
ANNUAL
SALARY
SINGLE
FAMILY
1.2921%
EMPLOYEE+1
1.9854%
2.4765%
Under $30,000	$15.71	$23.88	$27.65
$30,001	$16.15	$24.82	$30.96
$40,000	$21.54	$33.09	$41.28
$50,000	$26.92	$41.36	$51.59
$60,000	$32.30	$49.64	$61.91
$70,000	$37.69	$57.91	$72.23
$80,000	$43.07	$66.18	$82.55
$90,000	$48.45	$74.45	$92.87
$100,000	$53.84	$82.73	$103.19
All contributions shall be made on a pre-tax basis and are payable on a per pay period basis.
c)	The benefits provided for herein shall be provided through a self-insurance plan or under a group insurance policy, selected by the Employer. All benefits are subject to standard
27
356627.1
provisions of insurance policies between Employers and insurance companies.
d)	A dispute between an employee (or his/her covered dependent) and the processor of claims shall not be subject to the grievance procedure provided for in the Agreement between the Employer and the Union.
e)	Optional coverage offered by a Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) shall be made available to qualified employees. The Employer may offer coverage under more than one HMO. The employee's option of selecting an HMO is subject to conditions for eligibility set by the HMO, notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary.
f.	Where both husband and wife or other family members eligible under one family coverage are employed by the Employer, the Employer shall pay for only one family insurance or family health plan.
g.	The current practice permitting employees to use vacation or other time due during an illness in order to keep his/her insurance in effect shall continue for the term of this Agreement.
h.	Consistent with the terms of the Employer’s existing Group Health Care Plan, and the applicable rules thereof, employees who are covered under the Plan shall not lose said coverage solely because they have received a disciplinary suspension lasting 30 days or less. Employees on approved FMLA leave shall be entitled to continued medical coverage for a maximum of 12 weeks, subject to the terms of the Plan and any
28
356627.1
other applicable provisions of this Agreement. Employees who are receiving duty disability benefits shall be eligible to receive continued medical coverage as provided under the terms of the Plan and its applicable rules. As a condition of continued medical coverage, during any such suspension, or FMLA or duty disability leaves, employees must make all individual medical contributions as required under this Article and the terms of the Plan and its applicable rules. In the event that an employee loses coverage under the Plan, he or she will be provided notice thereof, the form of which may include, but is not limited to, a COBRA notice, a HIPAA notice, a written communication from the Employer or its insurance carrier, or some other similar advisory.
Section 9.2	Joint Labor Management Cooperation Committee on Health Care
The City of Chicago and each Coalition Union (the “Parties”) agree to create a Joint Labor Management Cooperation Committee (“LMCC”) pursuant to applicable state and federal law. The purpose of the LMCC is to research and make recommendations and decisions within its authority related to the achievement of significant and measurable savings in the cost of employee health care during the term of this Agreement. The Parties shall memorialize their intent to create this LMCC by executing an Agreement and Declaration of Trust (“Trust Agreement”) contemporaneously with the execution of each Coalition Union’s
29
356627.1
collective bargaining agreement with the City of Chicago. Said Trust Agreement shall be attached to this Agreement as Appendix C.
Section 9.3
The Trust Agreement shall address, without limitation, the following:
a.	Formation of a Committee to govern the LMCC consisting of up to twenty (20) Trustees, half of the Trustees shall be appointed by the City of Chicago and half of the Trustees shall be appointed by the Coalition Unions.
b.	Appointment by the City and Coalition of a Co-Chair and Vice-Cochair as designated in the Trust Agreement.
c.	Authority of the LMCC to make recommendations and modifications in the health plan expected to result in savings and cost containment.
d.	Establishment of a Trust Fund with contributions provided by the City of Chicago and third parties.
Section 9.4
For purposes of this Article, an “employee” shall mean a City employee represented by signatory labor organizations of this Agreement. A “Coalition Union” means signatories to this
30
356627.1
Agreement which have executed a collective bargaining agreement with the City.
ARTICLE 10 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 10.1	Bereavement Pay
In the event of a death in an employee's immediate family, such employee shall be entitled to a leave of absence up to a maximum of three consecutive days including the day of the funeral. Where death occurs and the funeral is to be held out of Illinois and beyond the states contiguous thereto, the employee shall be entitled to a maximum of five (5) consecutive days. During such leave, an hourly employee shall receive his/her regular straight time pay for such time as she/he is required to be away from work during his/her regularly scheduled hours of work (not to exceed eight hours per day). Salaried employees shall receive the leave of absence without additional compensation.
The employee's immediate family shall be defined as: mother, father, husband, wife, brother or sister (including step or half), son or daughter (including step or adopted), fatherin-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-inlaw, brother-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren, court-appointed legal guardian, and a person for whom the employee is a court-appointed legal guardian. The Employer may, at its option, require the employee to submit satisfactory proof of death and/or proof of the relationship of the deceased to the employee.
31
356627.1
Section 10.2	Military Leave
Any employee who is a member of a reserve force of the United States or of the State of Illinois, and who is ordered by the appropriate authorities to attend a training program or perform other duties under the supervision of the United States or the State of Illinois, other than the National Guard shall be granted a paid leave of absence during the period of such activity, but not to exceed fourteen (14) calendar days in any calendar year, provided that the employee deposits his/her military pay for all days compensated by the Employer with the City Comptroller.
Any employee who is a member of the National Guard of the United States or of the State of Illinois and who is ordered by the appropriate authorities to attend a training program or perform other duties under the supervision of the United States or the State of Illinois, shall be granted a paid leave of absence during the period of such activity, but not to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days in any calendar year, provided that the employee deposits his/her military pay for all days compensated by the Employer with the City Comptroller. Any reservist called for active duty on or after September 11, 2001, shall be entitled to full salary and medical benefits, provided that paid leave shall be conditioned upon payment of military pay to the Comptroller. The right to this additional paid leave shall automatically terminate upon termination of active duty.
32
356627.1
Section 10.3	Jury Duty Leave/Subpoena
An employee who serves on a jury or is subject to a proper subpoena (except if the employee is a party to the litigation) shall be granted a leave of absence with pay during the term of such absence, provided that the employee deposits his jury duty pay with the City Comptroller.
Section 10.4	Sick Leave
Salaried employees who are granted paid sick leave on the execution of this Agreement shall continue to receive the same sick leave provisions during the term of this Agreement, so long as he/she continues to work under a classification that was receiving sick leave at the execution of this Agreement. This provision will not affect any accumulated sick leave employees may have at the execution of this Agreement. An employee shall have the option to use up to six (6) days of sick leave per year for the illness of an immediate family member.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 1998 and thereafter, said employees who receive paid sick time shall accrue sick time at the rate of one (1) day for each month of employment. In the event an employee is hospitalized, upon request of the employee, the Employer will make available to said employee up to the full amount of sick time the employee would have accrued for the remainder of that calendar year as if he/she were actively employed, in order to cover the absence resulting from the hospitalization and recovery. Upon his/her return to work, the employee will begin to accrue sick time with the start of the next calendar year. The Employer reserves the
33
356627.1
right to require an employee to provide documentation of the illness in question.
Section 10.5	Personal Leave
Non-probationary employees may apply for leave of absence without pay for personal reasons. The grant and duration of such leaves shall be within the discretion of the Employer. Seniority shall accumulate for employees on said leaves. Employees who return from said leaves shall be reinstated to their former job classification, if the Employer determines it is vacant or if it is then occupied by an employee with lower seniority. If the employee's former job is not available because the employee would have been laid off if the employee had not been on a leave of absence, the employee may exercise seniority rights in accordance with and subject to the layoff, recall and break-in-service provisions of this Agreement.
Bargaining unit employees who have completed their first 12 months of employment and who have worked 1,250 hours in the preceding 12 month period shall thereafter be entitled to family and medical leave for a period of up to twelve (12) work weeks during any twelve (12) month period for any of the following reasons:
(1)	for the birth of an employee's child and to care for the newborn child;
(2)	for the placement with the employee of a child for adoption or foster care;
(3)	to care for the employee's spouse, child or parent with a serious health condition;
34
356627.1
(4)	due to a serious health condition affecting the employee.
Such leave shall be without pay unless the employee determines to substitute accrued paid leave for which the employee is eligible. During any leave taken under this Article, the employee's health care coverage shall be maintained and paid for by the employer, as if the employee was working and seniority shall accrue.
Any employee desiring to take leave under this Section shall provide reasonable advance notice to the employer on a form provided by the employer, which form shall be approved by the Union. Reasonable advance notice shall be no less than ten (10) days; and where advance notice cannot be provided, the employee shall provide notice within 48 hours after the employee is able to do so. Failure to provide the notice provided for in this Section shall not affect the validity of the leave where the employer has actual notice. Except as may be specifically stated in this Agreement, employees shall take leave provided for as permitted by the provisions of the Family Medical Leave Act, including its rules and regulations. Employees shall have a right to return to their regular assignment and location. Section 10.6 Duty Disability
Any employee who is absent from work due to an injury on duty shall be granted a leave of absence. The Employer will mail the initial Duty Disability payment within ten (10) working days upon receipt of verified authorization from the approving authority. Subsequent payment for eligible employees will be
35
356627.1
made twice a month. If duty disability is denied, and such denial is later reversed, the employee shall be paid up to date the amount the employee was eligible to receive. Employees who return from said leaves shall be reinstated to their former job classification, if it is vacant or if it is then occupied by an employee with lower seniority. If the employee's former job classification is not available because the employee would have been laid off if the employee had not been on a leave of absence, the employee may exercise seniority rights in accordance with and subject to the layoff, recall and break-inservice provisions of this Agreement.
The Employer will mail the initial Duty Disability payment within fourteen (14) days of the Employer's designated medical officer being advised by the employee or his physician of the occurrence of a job-related injury, provided that there is no dispute as to the employee's entitlement to Duty Disability. Section 10.7 Medical Leave
Non-probationary employees shall be granted medical leaves of absence upon request. Said medical leaves of absence shall be granted for up to 3 months, provided said leaves shall be renewable for like 3-month periods. The Employer may request satisfactory proof of medical leaves of absence. After the first year, such medical leaves shall be extended in up to one-year segments. Employees on medical leaves of absence shall return to work promptly after their doctor releases them to return to work.
36
356627.1
Employees who return from said medical leaves of absence promptly after their doctor's release within one year shall be reinstated to their former job/classification if it is vacant or if it is then occupied by an employee of lower seniority. In addition, the Employer will return an employee to the same geographic location of his or her previous job assignment for a period of up to one year after the start of the leave. If the employee's former job is not available because the employee would have been laid off if the employee had not been on a leave of absence, the employee may exercise seniority rights in accordance with and subject to layoff, recall and break-in service provisions in this agreement. After one year on an approved medical leave of absence, employees who return to work promptly after their doctor's release and who meet the following continuous service requirements shall be reinstated as described above according to the following formula: three (3) months of such reinstatement rights for every year of service to a maximum of five (5) years reinstatement rights.
An employee who does not meet the above eligibility requirements and who returns to work promptly after his/her doctor's release after more than one year on a medical leave of absence, shall be returned to his/her former job classification if the job is vacant. If not, the employee will be placed on a list for reinstatement.
Seniority shall accumulate for employees on medical leaves of absence for only up to one year. After one year, an employee
37
356627.1
on a medical leave of absence shall retain, but not accumulate, seniority.
Section 10.8	Union Leave
The Employer shall grant request for leaves of absence for up to three (3) employees for the purpose of service as Representative or officer with the International, State, District Council or Local Organization of the Union for the duration of his/her appointment to the Union, provided reasonable advance notice in writing is given to the employer. While on such leave the employee shall not incur a break in continuous service. An employee on said leave of absence shall not be eligible for any benefits as an employee.
Employees who return from Union leaves of absence shall have the same rights as employees who return from medical leaves of absence.
ARTICLE 11 DISCIPLINE AND GRIEVANCE/ARBITRATION
Section 11.1
(a)	Disciplinary action including discharge, shall be excluded from this grievance procedure. Suspensions over 10 days and discharges shall be governed exclusively by the City of Chicago's Personnel or Police Board Rules, whichever may be applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, suspensions of 11 days or more may be appealed to arbitration in lieu of the Personnel or Police Board upon the written request of the Union. Disciplinary cases which are converted from a discharge to a suspension as a result of decision of the Personnel or Police
38
356627.1
Board do not thereafter become arbitrable as a result of said
decision. The grievance procedure provisions herein and the Personnel or Police Board appeals procedure are mutually exclusive, and no relief shall be available under both.
(b)	An employee who is subject to disciplinary action for any impropriety or cause has the right to ask for and receive a Union representative to be present at any interrogation or hearings prior to being questioned. The interrogation shall take place at reasonable times and places and shall not commence until the Union representative arrives, provided that the Employer does not have to wait an unreasonable time and the Employer does not have to have the interrogation unduly delayed. An employee may be discharged for just cause before the Personnel or Police Board hearing, provided that said employee shall be guaranteed, upon request, a full hearing, before said board, in accordance with the said Board's rules. It is further provided that in the event of non-egregious offenses, not to include violent acts, criminal acts, drinking alcohol or taking illegal drugs on the job, insubordination or work stoppages, the employee will be given 30 days advance notice of discharge, and has 7 days from receipt of the notice to appeal. If the employee does not file an appeal within the 7 day appeal period, the Employer may then remove the employee from the payroll. If the employee appeals the discharge, the Personnel Board shall be requested to set a hearing date within the 30 day notice period and the employee shall remain on the payroll for the full notice period, except if prior to completion of the 30 day notice
39
356627.1
period (1) the Hearing Officer affirms the discharge; or (2) the employee continues the discharge hearing; or (3) the employee withdraws his/her appeal or otherwise engages in conduct which delays the completion of the hearing. However, in no event may the employee require the Employer to retain the employee on the payroll beyond the 30 day period. The Union shall have the right to have its representatives present at either of the Board(s) or the grievance procedure, including arbitration, and to actively participate.
(c)	The Employer within its discretion may determine whether disciplinary action should be an oral warning, written reprimand, suspension or discharge, depending upon various factors, such as, but not limited to, the severity of the offense or the employee's prior record. Such discipline shall be administered as soon as practical after the Employer has had a reasonable opportunity to fully investigate the matter and conduct a meeting with the Union and employee. The Employer is not obligated to meet with the employee and Union prior to taking disciplinary action where the employee is unavailable or in emergency situations.
Demotions shall not be used as a part of discipline. Transfer shall not be part of an employee's discipline.
In cases of oral warnings, the supervisor shall inform the employee that he/she is receiving an oral warning and the reasons therefore. For discipline other than oral warnings, the employee's immediate supervisor shall meet with the employee and notify him/her of the accusations against the employee and give
40
356627.1
the employee an opportunity to answer said accusations. Specifically, the supervisor shall tell the employee the names of witnesses, if any, and make available copies of pertinent documents the employee or Union is legally entitled to receive, to the extent then known and available. Employer's failure to satisfy this Section 11.1 shall not in and of itself result in a reversal of the Employer's disciplinary action or cause the Employer to pay back pay to the employee.
In the event disciplinary action is taken, the employee and the Union shall be given, in writing, a statement of the reasons therefore. The employee shall initial a copy, noting receipt only, which shall be placed in the employee's file. The employee shall have the right to make a response in writing which shall become part of the employee's file.
Any record of discipline may be retained for a period of time not to exceed eighteen (18) months and shall thereafter not be used as the basis of any further disciplinary action, unless a pattern of sustained infraction exists. A pattern shall be defined as at least two substantially similar offenses during said 18-month period. If an employee successfully appeals a disciplinary action, his/her file shall so record that fact. If the appeal fully exonerates the employee, the Employer shall not use said record of the discipline action against the employee, or in the case of promotions or transfers.
In any disciplinary investigation of a non-egregious offense conducted by the investigative staff of the Office of Budget and Management, the Employer shall notify the employee
41
356627.1
who is the subject of the disciplinary investigation of the pendency of the investigation and its subject matter, within 30 calendar days of the employer being made aware of the alleged rule violation. For the purposes of this Section, the term "non-egregious offense" shall not include indictable criminal offenses, gross insubordination, residency issues, or drug and alcohol violations. Thereafter, the employee shall be granted a pre-disciplinary hearing if requested within thirty (30) days. Any discipline given in violation of this notice provision shall be null and void.
In the event that a discharged employee appeals an adverse decision of the Personnel or Police Board to the Circuit Court of Cook County, or thereafter to the Appellate Court of Illinois, and the decision of the Personnel or Police Board is reversed or remanded resulting in restoration of the job, the Employer will pay the employee's reasonable attorney's fees which he or she has incurred in connection with the court proceeding, excluding fees incurred before the Personnel or Police Board. The employee shall submit a post-appeal fee petition to the Employer, which shall be supported by full documentation of the work performed, the hours expended, and the rates paid by the employee. Should the parties be unable to agree on the proper amount of the fees to be paid to the employee, either party may refer the dispute to arbitration under the relevant provisions of this agreement.
42
356627.1
Section 11.2	Procedure For Department Review of Disciplinary Action Including Suspension
Step 1 Within five (5) working days after an employee receives written notice of any proposed disciplinary action, including a suspension for ten (10) days or less which is not appealable to the Personnel or Police Board, or in the case of suspensions of 11 or more days which may be appealed to arbitration in lieu of the Police or Personnel Board upon the written request of the Union, the Employer shall conduct a meeting with the Union and employee. Discipline shall be administered as soon as possible after the Employer has had a reasonable opportunity to further investigate the matter as appropriate. If disciplinary action is taken after the meeting or further investigation, the employee may request in writing to the department head for review of said disciplinary action on a form provided by the Employer. Said request for review shall be in writing and submitted within three (3) working days or receipt of written notice of discipline. Said review form shall be printed on the back of or attached to the notice or discipline together with instructions for appeal. The failure to submit a written request for review of disciplinary action within three (3) working days of receipt of notice of disciplinary action will preclude the employee's right to review.
Step 2 Within three (3) working days or any mutually agreed upon extension after the department head or designee
43
356627.1
receives the employee's request for review, the department head or designee shall conduct a meeting to review the suspension. Failure to conduct said meeting in three (3) days will result in automatic advancement to Step 3 and the Union shall so notify the Employer. At the meeting, the Department will give the basis for its action and the employee and Union representative, if any, will be heard and provided the opportunity to ask questions. The Department Head or designee shall render a written decision within two (2) working days of the meeting, except where both parties agree a further investigation is required. The absence of such agreement or failure to decide and communicate such decision will result in automatic advancement to Step 4 and the Union shall so notify the Employer. A copy of such decision shall be sent to the employee and the Union.
Step 3 Where further investigation is agreed upon, a second meeting shall be held between the department head or designee and the employee and the Union representative to discuss the results of the investigation. Said meeting shall be conducted within five (5) working days of the close of the Step 2 meeting, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. The department head or designee shall render a written decision within two (2) working days of the second meeting. A copy of such decision shall be sent to the employee and the Union. If the parties fail to meet within five (5) working days or a written decision is not
44
356627.1
submitted within two (2) working days, the appeal shall automatically proceed to Step 4 and the Union shall so notify the Employer. Except where otherwise indicated, the time limits set forth herein are to encourage the prompt reviews of said disciplinary action and failure to comply with these time limits will not affect the validity of the said disciplinary action. This procedure shall be the employee's exclusive remedy for all said disciplinary action, including suspension for ten (10) days or less, or for suspension of 11 days through 30 days which may be appealed to arbitration in lieu of the Police or Personnel Board upon the written request of the Union.
Step 4 If the matter is not settled at Steps 2 or 3, the Union may submit the matter to arbitration under the terms of this Agreement. The rules governing procedure for arbitration shall be the same as in 11.3, Step III.
Section 11.3	Grievance and Arbitration
Except as in disciplinary provisions of 11.1 and 11.2 above, a difference, complaint or dispute (hereinafter called a grievance) between the Employer and the Union or any of the employees of the Employer it represents, arising out of the circumstances or conditions of employment, shall be exclusively settled in the following manner.
There shall be no interruption of the operation of the Employer. It is agreed that the time limitations set forth
45
356627.1
herein are of the essence and that no action or matter not in
compliance therewith shall be considered the subject of a grievance unless said time limitations are extended by written agreement of both parties to this Agreement.
Failure of the Employer to answer a grievance within the time limits herein shall permit the Union to advance the case to the next Step. The Union will be informed of and allowed to be in attendance at all grievance or disciplinary hearings. The Union shall send written notice to the Department Head notifying him/her of automatic advancement to the next Step.
Before a formal grievance is initiated, the employee may discuss the matter with his/her immediate supervisor. If the problem is not resolved in discussion, the following procedure shall be used to adjust the grievance:
Step I - IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR
A.	The employee or the Union shall put the grievance in writing on the form to be supplied by the Employer upon request, but in the absence of such a form, employee or the Union may submit the grievance in letter form, within twelve working days of either the employee or the Union having knowledge of the event which gives rise to the grievance. The employee or the Union will indicate what Section and part of the Agreement is in violation, a brief description of the
46
356627.1
facts underlying the grievance, and the requested remedy, and submit the grievance to the employee’s immediate supervisor. It is understood that if the employee has knowledge of the grievance more than twelve working days than the Union, the Union shall not thereafter file any grievance concerning that same issue with the Employer.
B.	Within five (5) working days of the written grievance, the immediate supervisor will notify the employee and the Union in writing of the decision.
Step II
A. If the grievance is not settled at Step I, the Union representative and/or the employee shall have the right to make an appeal in writing to the Department Head or the Department Head's designee within seven (7) working days after the date of receipt of the decision or the date it was due under Step I, by the immediate supervisor.	The name of the Department
Head's designee shall be posted for employees in areas where employee notices are normally posted and submitted to the Union. Failure to post and so notify the union will permit immediate advancement to arbitration unless corrected within two (2) working days of notice of failure to post.
47
356627.1
B.
The Department Head or the Department Head’s designee
shall meet with the Union’s representative at least once each month to discuss all pending grievances that have been advanced to Step II. The purpose of the Step II meeting will be for the Department and the Union to share relevant information and discuss their respective positions with respect to each grievance pending at Step II, and attempt to amicably resolve as many grievances as possible. The Department Head or the Department Head’s designee shall have the requisite authority to resolve grievances during the Step II meeting. No grievances will be discussed at more than one Step II meeting, unless the City and the Union mutually agree that further meeting and discussion would be beneficial. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to relieve the City and the Union from their obligations to otherwise process and respond to grievances in accordance with this Article.
C.	The Department Head or the Department Head's designee will notify the employee and Union in writing with a copy to the Union of his/her decision within seven (7) working days of the completion of the Step II meeting. The response to the grievance shall state the
48
356627.1
Department’s position with respect to the grievance together with a brief statement of the facts and reason(s) supporting that position.
D.	Any settlement at Step I or II shall be binding upon the Employer, Union and the aggrieved employee or employees. Grievances may be withdrawn without prejudice at any step of the grievance procedure if mutually agreed.
E.	If the grievance is not settled at the second Step, the Union or the Employer may request final and binding arbitration by serving written notice on the other within ten (10) working days from receipt of the Employer's Step II decision or the date it was due.
F.	If the grievance or arbitration affects more than one employee, it may be presented by a single selected employee representative of the group or class. A class action shall be identified to the Employer at Step I or as soon as practicable. The resolution of a grievance filed on behalf of a group of employees shall be made applicable to all of the affected employees within that group.
G.	Even though a grievance has been filed, employees are obligated to follow	instructions or	orders of
supervisors or the	Employer, except where	the
49
356627.1
instruction or order is so inherently dangerous to the employee that it could cause death or serious physical harm. The Employer agrees that by following instructions or orders the employee does not waive his/her right to process the grievance. Refusal to follow instructions or orders shall be cause for discipline.
Step III - ARBITRATION
If the matter is not settled in Step II the Union or the Employer, but not an individual employee or employees, may submit the dispute to arbitration by serving a written request to arbitrate to the designated representative from the Employer’s operating department, with copies of the request to the designated law department representative and counsel for the Coalition Unions, setting forth the facts and specific relief requested, within ten (10) working days after the answer is given or due at Step II hereof.
Within five (5) days of serving the request for arbitration, or as soon thereafter as the parties mutually may agree, the Union shall have the right to convene a meeting with the Employer's designated representative in an attempt to resolve the grievance prior to any further action being taken to advance the matter to arbitration. At such meeting, the Union shall set forth in writing the facts of the matter in dispute
50
356627.1
and the relief requested. The Employer will respond to the grievance in writing by giving the reasons which it contends support its position with respect to the grievance. In the event the parties are unable at such meeting to resolve the grievance, the Union and the Employer will proceed with the selection of an arbitrator as provided below.
Either party may submit the grievance to arbitration by serving a written request to arbitrate to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service under the rules of that tribunal with a copy to the other party. The foregoing shall not prevent the Employer and Union from mutually agreeing to the selection of an arbitrator.
The panel of arbitrators submitted must agree as a whole to commencement of a hearing within sixty (60) days of selection and that they will render a decision within thirty (30) days of the close of hearing. Any extension of those time limits must be by written consent of the Union and the Employer. The failure of either side to agree to an extension of time shall not be disclosed to the arbitrator.
Arbitrators will advise the parties of their fees and expenses prior to selection and such fees and expenses shall be borne equally between the Union and the Employer.	The
arbitrator shall have the right to subpoena witnesses and
51
356627.1
require the production of pertinent documents at the request of either party.
Each party shall be responsible for compensating its own representative and witnesses. The cost of a transcript shall be borne by the party requesting the reporter unless the parties agree to share such costs.
An arbitrable matter must involve the meaning and application or interpretation of a specific provision of this Agreement or a document incorporated by reference thereto. The provisions of this Agreement and any other document incorporated by reference in this Agreement shall be the sole source of any rights which either party may assert in arbitration. Questions of arbitrability shall be decided by the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall have no power to amend, add to, subtract from, or change the terms of this Agreement, and shall be authorized only to interpret the existing provisions of this Agreement and apply them to the specific facts of the grievance or dispute. The decision of the arbitrator shall be based wholly on the evidence and arguments presented to him by the parties in the presence of each other. No arbitration hearing shall be held unless both parties are present. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties to the dispute, including the employee or employees involved. Where timeliness is in dispute, it shall be decided by the arbitrator.
52
356627.1
A.
Advanced Grievance Step Filing
Certain issues which by nature are not capable of being settled at a preliminary step of the grievance procedure or which would become moot due to the length of time necessary to exhaust the grievance steps, or which the Union believes which would be resolved more expeditiously, may be filed at the option of the grievant/Union at Step II.
B.	Pertinent Witnesses And Information
The Union may request the production of specific documentation, books, papers or witnesses reasonably available from the Employer and substantially pertinent to the grievance under consideration. Such request shall not be unreasonably denied, and if granted shall be in conformance with applicable laws and rules issued pursuant thereto governing the dissemination of such materials.
A Union representative, a grievant, and Union steward will be permitted a reasonable amount of time without loss of pay during working hours to investigate and process grievances where this does not substantially interfere with the efficient operation of the Department, provided that representatives shall observe the Employer's reasonable visitation rules for Union representatives. The steward shall notify his/her immediate supervisor for permission to handle grievances on work time, it being understood that the operation of the Department takes
53
356627.1
precedence unless there is an emergency, but such permission shall not be denied unreasonably. A reasonable number of employees may attend the meeting without loss of pay; such meetings shall be set by mutual agreement by the Employer and the Union. Where the Employer directs an employee to report for a meeting concerning a grievance at a time when the employee is not scheduled to work such time shall be considered time worked.
If there is space available, the Employer, upon request of the Union representative, shall provide the use of a room and telephone, to discuss the grievance, subject to the Employer's reasonable rules for the Union's use of such facilities.
C.	EXPEDITED ARBITRATION
The Employer and the Union may mutually agree to submit any grievance to expedited arbitration. Pursuant to expedited arbitration, the parties shall mutually select an arbitrator from a group of arbitrators approved by the parties. The expedited arbitration hearing shall be scheduled as early as possible from the date the parties agreed to submit the grievance to expedited arbitration. The parties agree to waive the stenographic recording of the hearing and the filing of post-hearing briefs. Pursuant to the parties’ agreement, the arbitrator shall issue either an oral decision at the close of the hearing or a written decision within twenty (20) days of the
54
356627.1
date of the hearing. The arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding on all parties to the dispute.
D.	MANAGEMENT OF ARBITRATION DOCKET
A representative from the Employer’s law department and counsel for the Coalition Unions shall meet at least quarterly, or more frequently as necessary, in order to discuss the scheduling of specific cases for available hearing dates. At these meetings, the parties shall designate at least one preestablished hearing date per month for the arbitration of grievances.
Section 11.4 Conduct of Disciplinary Investigations
Supplementing all rights and processes due employees covered by this Agreement who may be the subject of a disciplinary investigation by the Inspector General, the interview will be conducted in the following manner:
A.	The interview of the employee shall be scheduled at a reasonable time, preferably while the employee is on duty, or if feasible, during day shift hours.
B.	The interview, depending upon the allegation, will take place at the employee's location of assignment, normal department location or other appropriate location.
C.	Prior to an interview, the employee under investigation shall be informed of the person in
55
356627.1
charge of the investigation, the identity of the interviewer and all persons present during the interview. When a formal statement is being taken, all questions directed to the employee shall be asked by and through one interviewer at a time.
D.	The length of the interview sessions will be reasonable, with reasonable interruptions permitted for personal necessities.
E.	At the beginning of the interview, the employee shall be informed of the nature of the matters to be discussed.
F.	An employee under investigation shall not be threatened with transfer, dismissal or disciplinary action, or promised a reward, as an inducement to provide information relating to the matter under investigation, or for exercising any rights contained in this Agreement, provided, however, that this Section shall not prohibit or prevent an accurate reading of the employee's administrative rights, or the imposition of discipline in accordance therewith.
G.	An employee under investigation will be provided without unreasonable delay with a copy of any written statement the employee has made.
56
356627.1
H.
(1) If the allegation under investigation indicates a
recommendation for discipline is probable against the employee, said employee will be given the statutory administrative proceedings rights prior to the commencement of the interview. (2) If the allegation indicates that criminal prosecution may be probable against said employee, the provisions of this Section shall be inapplicable and said employee will be afforded his constitutional rights concerning selfincrimination prior to the commencement of the interview. An employee will not be read his/her administrative and Miranda rights during the same interview.
I.	At the request of the employee under investigation, an employee who may be subject to discipline shall have the right to be represented in the interview by a representative of the Union. The employee shall be told that he/she has the right to Union representation before commencement of the interview. The interrogation shall be suspended until representation can be obtained, provided the suspension is not for an unreasonable time and the Employer does not have the interview unduly delayed.
57
356627.1
J.	The Employer shall not compel an employee under investigation to speak or testify before, or to be questioned by, any non-governmental agency relating to any matter or issue under investigation.
K.	The results of a polygraph examination shall not be used against an employee in any forum adverse to the employee's interests. The Employer will not require a polygraph examination if it is illegal to do so. If an employee is asked to take a polygraph examination, he/she will be advised in writing 24 hours prior to the administration of the examination. The results of any polygraph examination shall be known to the employee within one week.
L.	This Section shall not apply to employee witnesses.
M.	The identity of an employee under investigation shall not be made available to the media during the course of an investigation until charges are filed by the Employer and the employee has the opportunity to respond thereto. If an employee is exonerated after the City initially informed the media of the charges against the employee, the City will make that fact available to the media where the employee requests it.
N.	In the event that disciplinary action is taken against an employee, any allegations of violations of this
58
356627.1
Section shall be heard in connection with, and in the same forum as, grievances which protest said disciplinary action, except as provided in paragraph O(2) below. If no disciplinary action is brought against the employee following the conclusion of the Inspector General's investigation, no grievance concerning the conduct of the investigation shall exist.
O.	(1) Any evidence or information including employee statements that is obtained in violation of the rights enumerated in this Section, shall be suppressed and shall not be used by the Employer for any disciplinary action against the employee, or in the case of promotions or transfers.
(2)(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph N above, at the option of the Union, a claim that the Inspector General has violated the provisions of this Section may be raised in a suppression hearing before a member of the permanent hearing panel listed herein, rather than in the disciplinary hearing as required in paragraph N above.
(2)(b)(1) The Union may exercise this option by notifying the employee's Department Head and the Employer's Law Department in writing not later than
59
356627.1
ten (10) calendar days before an arbitration or the Personnel or Police Board hearing, in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Agreement. The appeal shall specify the particular contract provisions allegedly violated, together with a factual summary of the conduct alleged to have violated the Agreement. It is understood that by exercising this option, any and all time limits set forth in Chapter 2-74-060 of the Municipal Code of the City of Chicago regarding the Personnel Board hearing shall be tolled until the arbitrator renders a decision as provided below.
(2)(b)(2) Upon receipt of said notice, the parties will select in order of rotation one of the three permanent hearing panel members who are chosen as follows. To be eligible for service on this panel, members must be willing to convene a suppression hearing within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of his or her selection. To select the initial panel, or should any member of the panel resign or be removed upon mutual agreement of the parties during the life of this Agreement, the parties will meet to reach agreement on new panel member who must be an arbitrator listed with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. If no agreement can be reached,
60
356627.1
the Employer will request a panel of
seven
(7)
arbitrators from FMCS, all of whom must be members of the National Academy of Arbitrators. Thereafter, the parties will meet to strike names from the list, with the Employer striking first, until one name remains, which person shall be named to the panel.
2(c) The suppression hearing shall be convened within thirty (30) calendar days of the selection of the panel member, or at such other time as the parties may mutually agree. The arbitrator's jurisdiction shall be limited to determining if the Inspector General obtained evidence or statements in violation of paragraph O(1) above, and if such evidence should be suppressed. The arbitrator shall have no authority to rule on the merits of any underlying discipline or take any other action beyond that specifically set forth in this subparagraph.
2(d) The panel member shall render an expedited decision which shall be final and binding upon the parties. It shall not be subject to collateral attack in any further disciplinary proceeding involving the employee in question.
P.	Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section to the contrary, no interview by the Inspector General
61
356627.1
will be conducted at a police station or
other
correctional facility unless the employee works at the police station or correctional facility, or if the employee has been incarcerated for more than 72 hours.
ARTICLE 12 NO STRIKES-NO LOCKOUT
Section 12.1	No Strikes
The Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement, there shall be no strikes (including, but not limited to sympathy strikes and strikes to protect Union or third party conduct), work stoppages, slowdowns, picketing, delays of work of any kind.
Section 12.2	Union Efforts
The Union agrees that it will use its best efforts to prevent any acts forbidden in this Article and that in the event any such acts take place or are engaged in by any employee or group of employees in the Union's bargaining unit, the Union further agrees it will use its best efforts to cause an immediate cessation thereof. If the Union immediately takes all necessary steps in good faith to end any stoppages, strikes, picketing, intentional slowdown or suspension of work, including: (a) publicly disclaiming such action as not called or sanctioned by the Union, and (b) posting notices in conspicuous places which notify involved employees that the action was not called or sanctioned by the Union, in addition to instructing employees to immediately cease such activity, the Employer
62
356627.1
agrees that it will not bring action against the Union to establish responsibility for such unauthorized conduct.
Section 12.3	Discipline
The Employer may terminate the employment of or otherwise discipline any employee or employees who have been found to have engaged in any act forbidden in this Article.
Section 12.4	No Lockout
The Employer will not lock out bargaining unit employees during the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 13 DUES CHECK-OFF AND FAIR SHARE
Section 13.1	Indemnification/Authorization
The Employer, upon receipt of a validly executed written authorization card, shall deduct Union dues and initiation fees from the payroll checks of all employees so authorizing the deduction in an amount certified by the Union, and shall remit such deductions on a semi-monthly basis to the Union. Authorization for such deduction shall be irrevocable unless revoked by written notice to the Employer and the Union during the fifteen (15) day period prior to the expiration of this Agreement. The Union shall indemnify, defend and hold the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits or other forms of liability, including damages, attorney's fees and court and other costs, that shall arise out of, or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with Section 13.1,	13.2,	13.3 and 13.4 of this
Article, or in reliance on any list, notice, certification or
63
356627.1
assignment furnished under any of such provisions or in reliance upon employee payroll deduction authorization cards submitted by the Union to the Employer.
The Employer shall provide to the Union within thirty (30) days name, address, classification, rate of salary and starting date of any new employee hired into the Union's bargaining unit. Section 13.2 Fair Share
It is further agreed that 30 days after the later of the execution of the Agreement or the employee's date of hire, the Employer shall deduct from the earnings of employees who are not members of the Union, a monthly amount as certified by the Union and shall remit such deductions to the Union at the same time that the dues check-off is remitted. It is understood that the amount of deductions from said non-member bargaining unit employees will not exceed the regular monthly Union dues and represents the employee's fair share cost of the collective bargaining process, contract administration and pursuing matters affecting wages, hours and other conditions of employment.
Section 13.3	Right of Non-Association
Nothing in this Agreement shall be inconsistent with Section 6(g) of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act in protecting the right of non-association of employees based upon the bona fide religious tenets or teachings of a Church or other religious body of which such employees are members.
Section 13.4	Condition of Employment
Each employee who on the effective date of this Agreement is a member of the Union, and each employee who becomes a member
64
356627.1
after that date, shall, as a condition of employment, maintain his/her membership in the Union during the term of this Agreement.
Any present employee who is not a member of the Union shall, as a condition of employment, be required to pay a fair share (not to exceed the amount of Union dues) of the cost of the collective bargaining process and contract administration. All employees hired on or after the effective date of this Agreement and who have not made application for membership shall be required, 30 days after the later of the execution of this Agreement or their hire date, to pay a fair share of the cost of the collective bargaining process and contract administration and pursuing matters affecting wages, hours and other conditions of employment.
ARTICLE 14 MISCELLANEOUS
Section 14.1	Job Titles
The Employer will notify the Union of any change in job title. If the Employer makes any substantial change in job duties it will discuss such changes with the Union prior thereto.	If the Employer changes a job title without
substantially changing the duties of the job, the Union will retain its existing jurisdiction over the new job title. The Employer will not permanently assign bargaining unit work to the jurisdiction of another bargaining unit without the mutual agreement of the unions involved.
65
356627.1
Section 14.2	Traditional Work
Any work which has been traditionally performed by employees who are represented by the Union shall continue to be performed by said employees, except where non-unit employees have in the past performed unit work, or in emergencies, to train or instruct employees, to do layout, demonstration, experimental, or testing duties, to do troubleshooting or where special knowledge is required, provided however, where employees do not report to work because of vacations, or other absences or tardiness, or for personal reasons during the course of the day, or because all of the employees are or will be occupied with assigned duties, or to complete a rush assignment, employees of any other unit represented by another Union shall not perform the work of said employees. For example, if an Elevator Inspector is on vacation, a Clerk shall not be assigned as a replacement Elevator Inspector. The Employer shall not arbitrarily extend the period of any emergency beyond the need for that emergency.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is understood that it shall not be a violation of this Agreement if the following functions are performed by members of management, regardless of whether they are also performed by the bargaining unit: (a) crew assignment and scheduling; (b) work inspection; (c) discipline; (d) ordering of equipment and materials from vendors. Nothing herein shall deprive members of the bargaining unit of the right to perform historical and traditional unit work; nor shall the
66
356627.1
City lay-off a bargaining unit employee for the purpose of replacing that person with a member of management.
Section 14.3	Jurisdictional Disputes
In the event that the Union files a grievance claiming that the Employer has violated the terms of this Agreement by assigning certain work to City employees represented by another union, or where the Employer receives a grievance from another union protesting the assignment of work to employees covered under this Agreement, the Employer shall serve written notice to the Union, and on the other affected union(s), of the existence of said dispute. This notice shall describe the nature of the work in dispute.
In the	event this	dispute remains	unresolved	and is
submitted	to	arbitration,	the provisions of Article 11	herein
regarding arbitration of grievances shall apply, except that in addition	to	the Employer	and the Union,	the other	affected
union(s)	shall have the	opportunity to	participate	in the
hearing and to present evidence, but shall not be bound to the results of that arbitration unless all parties so agree in advance of the hearing.
If the Union shall prevail in said arbitration and is awarded the work in dispute, and if, in that event, the other affected union(s) shall pursue a claim against the Employer that the reassignment of the work in dispute violates the Agreement of that other union, the provisions of this Section shall apply to that claim as well. All parties to the dispute shall have the right to participate in any arbitration hearing of that
67
356627.1
claim and to present evidence therein. Should the arbitrator in the second proceeding determine that the Employer's reassignment of the work in dispute violates the other union(s)' Agreement, thereby requiring the Employer to comply with two conflicting arbitration decisions as to which of the unions is entitled to perform the disputed work, the following provisions shall apply.
The Employer shall have the right to invoke arbitration of the dispute under the provisions of the grievance and arbitration procedures contained in Article 11 of this Agreement, except that the Union and the other affected union(s) shall select the arbitrator. The Employer, the Union and the other affected union(s) shall be parties to that proceeding, and shall have the right to fully participate in the hearing. During the pendency of this proceeding, the work assignment directed by the first arbitrator shall be followed by the parties. The arbitrator shall have the authority to decide only which of the two conflicting awards shall prevail. The arbitrator's decision shall be based solely upon the prior arbitration awards, the record before both prior arbitrators, and the traditional work and other relevant provisions of this Agreement and of the collective bargaining agreement of the affected union(s). No other evidence or testimony shall be admitted in that hearing. The decision of the arbitrator in this proceeding shall be final and binding upon all parties to the dispute, and none of the parties to the dispute shall seek review of that award in any other judicial or administrative forum.
68
356627.1
Nothing herein shall preclude all parties to the dispute from voluntarily resolving it at any time. Section 14.4 Deferred Compensation
The Employer's policy which is in effect at the execution of this Agreement, pertaining to deferred compensation, shall be afforded to all employees of the Employer without change during the term of this Agreement.
Section 14.5	Rules of Conduct Changes
When the Employer proposes to initiate reasonable changes or additions to its rules of conduct, which could subject employees to discipline, the Employer shall transmit four (4) copies of the proposed changes or additions to the Union. The Union will consider the proposals, and upon request, the Employer will meet with the Union within twenty (20) calendar days of the receipt of the proposals to receive the Union's comments. Absent an emergency, the Employer will not implement its proposed changes or additions until the Union has had a reasonable opportunity to present its views and discuss the proposals with the Employer. No such changes or additions shall be implemented without prior publication and notice to the affected employees.
Section 14.6	Safety
(a)	The Employer shall provide a safe and healthful working environment for employees covered by this agreement including in accordance with applicable federal and state occupational safety and health laws, and shall maintain in good and safe working condition all equipment necessary for the safe
69
356627.1
and proper performance of the job.
(b)	In furtherance of those efforts, a joint safety committee shall be established which shall be composed of six (6) representatives of the Union Coalition and six (6) representatives of the Employer. The purpose of the committee shall be to discuss, examine and to make recommendations concerning occupational safety and health issues affecting employees. All recommendations of the committee with respect to safety and health issues shall be submitted in writing to the appropriate Department Head with a copy to the Union and the Director of Labor Relations. The Department Head shall promptly issue a written response to the committee concerning the Department's views regarding the committee's recommendations.
The parties may decide, from time to time, to refer certain safety issues and concerns to the personnel of the affected Department(s) responsible for safety matters and Union representatives of the affected employee(s). The Department safety personnel will meet and confer with a representative of the affected Union about such issues and report back to the Committee on any decisions or recommendations concerning them.
(c)	The joint safety committee shall meet at least once a month, or otherwise by mutual agreement.
(d)	The parties agree and understand that if an employee is faced with an unsafe working condition, the employee is required to perform the task in question unless the employee's performance of an assigned task presented the strong likelihood of subjecting the employee to imminent danger of death or
70
356627.1
serious injury. If the employee, with no reasonable alternative, refuses in good faith to perform that task and expose himself to that dangerous condition, the employee will not be subject to discipline. In order to avoid discipline under this paragraph, the condition must be of such a nature that a reasonable person, under the circumstances, would conclude that there is a real, substantial, and imminent danger of death or serious injury. In addition, the employee must also have sought from the Employer, and have been unable to obtain, correction of the situation before refusing to perform the task in question.
Section 14.7	Information to Union
The Employer will provide to the Union on a monthly basis a bargaining unit report of current active employees, the list to include employee name, address, social security number, title, pay schedule, grade, current pay rate, status, continuous service date, time in title, date of birth, race and sex.
The Employer shall also provide to the Union on a monthly basis a bargaining unit activity report of current active employees that will list Career Service Retirements; Career Service Resignations; Career Service Discharges; Non-Career Service Terminations; Leaves of Absence; Suspensions; Reinstatements; Reappointments; Transfers (change of department and change of payroll); Appointments (which also includes promotions and demotions); and Deaths.
71
356627.1
Each month the Employer will provide to the Union the current month's bargaining unit activity report and the updated report from the previous month.
Section 14.8	Subcontracting
The Employer shall not contract or subcontract out bargaining unit work to any person, contractor or employer who is not in compliance with the area standards established under and pursuant to the formula used by the United States Department of Labor administering the Davis-Bacon Act. Notice of any such contracting or subcontracting shall be given to the Union at least thirty (30) days prior to its effective date. The notice shall be in writing and shall contain the name and address of the party who will perform the work, a description of the work to be performed and any other relevant data to enable the Union to determine compliance with this Section. In the event such party is determined not to be in compliance with the said area standards, the Employer shall withhold payouts and shall not contract or subcontract further with any such party until the Union and the Employer receive a written and enforceable assurance of compliance.
In the event that the Employer determines to subcontract unit work under this Agreement, and as a result bargaining unit employees would be laid off by the proposed subcontracting, the Employer shall make available, on a seniority basis, equal-rated permanent jobs which the Employer has declared to be vacant in the affected Department, or other departments, as the case may be, in that order, provided the laid off employees have the then
72
356627.1
present ability to perform the required work without further training. However, the employee shall be provided with a reasonable amount of orientation to allow him or her to perform the work.
Prior to sub-contracting of bargaining unit work, the Employer, the Union, and the proposed sub-contractor shall meet to discuss the employment of employees subject to layoff. During that meeting the Employer will request and urge that the subcontractor hire laid off employees.
Section 14.9	Automobile Reimbursement
Employees who are required by the Employer to use their own automobiles in the performance of their job shall receive mileage reimbursement at the then effective rate recognized by the Internal Revenue Service, with a maximum of $250 per month. On the effective date of this Agreement, following its ratification by all parties, the maximum reimbursement will increase to $350.00 per month. Effective February 1, 2008, the maximum reimbursement will increase to $450.00 per month. Effective February 1, 2009, the maximum reimbursement will increase to $550.00 per month. Thereafter, the maximum reimbursement will increase effective each February 1 by the percentage increase in the Transportation Expenditure Category of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U): U.S. City Average for the previous year, as rounded to the
73
356627.1
nearest $5 increment. Employees seeking mileage reimbursement must submit that request on a form provided by the Employer. Payment for mileage expenses will be made on a monthly basis. In the event that during the life of this Agreement the Employer shall implement for any group of employees an automobile expense reimbursement program which is more favorable to employees than the provisions of this paragraph, upon notice from the Union, the Employer will meet and discuss with representatives of the Union the possible application of said new program to employees covered by this Agreement.
Upon request by either party made no earlier than January 1, 2010, the parties shall meet to discuss any proposed changes to this Section 14.9.
Section 14.10	Filling of Permanent Vacancies
The Employer shall determine if there is a permanent vacancy to be filled, and at any time before said vacancy is filled, whether or not said vacancy shall be filled.
For jobs that would provide an increase in base pay rate for any bargaining unit employees, the Employer will post vacancy announcements for fourteen (14) days, and provide the Union with a copy of the announcement at the time it is posted.
Qualified bargaining unit employees shall be given an opportunity to bid on permanent vacancies declared by the Employer that would provide an increase in base pay rate for any
74
356627.1
bargaining unit employees. The Employer shall select the most qualified applicant. In making selections, the Employer shall give preference to bargaining unit applicants over nonbargaining unit applicants, except where non-bargaining unit applicants have demonstrably greater skill and ability to perform the work required. In making a selection between two or more bargaining unit applicants who are relatively equally qualified, the Employer shall select the most senior bidder. For purposes of this Section, seniority shall be determined by the employee’s total service in any bargaining unit title(s).
The successful bidder for any job under this Section shall have an evaluation period, not to exceed sixty (60) days, to demonstrate that he or she can perform the job. If the Employer has just cause based upon the employee’s job performance at any time during that period to believe that the successful bidder cannot perform the job, then the successful bidder shall be returned to the job he/she held just prior to the awarding of the bid, displacing, if necessary, any employee who has been placed into said job.
75
356627.1
ARTICLE 15 LAYOFFS/RECALL
Probationary employees with more than 90 days of service shall be laid off first. Thereafter, the least senior employee in the affected job classification in the department shall be laid off first, provided the ability, qualifications to perform the required work, and the employee's job performance are relatively equal among the other employees in the job in the department.
"Seniority" shall mean, for purposes of this Section, the employee's service in the job title (time-in-title).
Employees shall be recalled in the reverse order they were laid off.
ARTICLE 16 SEPARABILITY
In the event any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be or become invalid or unenforceable by reason of any Federal or State Law or Local Ordinance now existing or hereinafter enacted, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remainder of the provisions hereof. The parties agree to meet and adopt revised provisions which would be in conformity with the law.
ARTICLE 17 UNION REPRESENTATION
Section 17.1	Union Rights
The Union shall have the right and responsibility to represent the interests of all employees in the Unit, to present
76
356627.1
its views to the City on matters of concern, either orally or in writing, and to consult and be consulted with, in respect to the formulation, development and implementation of policies and programs affecting working conditions.
Section 17.2	Right of Access
Duly authorized Officials of the Union will be permitted during normal working hours, to enter Employer facilities for purposes of handling grievances or observing conditions under which employees are working. The Union will not abuse this privilege, and such right of entry shall be consistent with current practices, and shall at all times be conducted in a manner so as not to interfere with normal operations. The Employer may be able to change or set rules of access, provided that any change in current practices must be reasonable and subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 18 DRUG AND ALCOHOL PROGRAM
Section 18.1	Policy Statement
The City of Chicago's essential mission is to provide services to its citizens in a safe and economic manner. The parties to this Agreement recognize that drug and alcohol abuse in the workplace has a deleterious effect on the health and safety of employees, as well as their morale and productivity, all of which creates an undue burden on the persons which the City and the employees under this Agreement serve. Furthermore, the economic cost of providing health care services to employees
77
356627.1
who abuse drugs and alcohol has put an increasing burden on the City's finances.
The Employer and the Union maintain a strong commitment to protect people and property, and to provide a safe working environment. To this end, the employer has also established its confidential Employee Assistance Program for employees with personal problems, including alcohol and substance abuse, and the parties to this Agreement urge employees who have such problems to utilize the Program's services.
To maintain a workplace which provides a safe and health work environment for all employees, the following drug and alcohol program is also established.
Section 18.2	Definitions
(a)	Alcohol: Ethyl alcohol
(b)	Prohibited Items & Substances: all illegal drugs and controlled substances, alcoholic beverages, and drug paraphernalia in the possession of, or being used by, an employee on the job or the premises of the Employer.
(c)	Employer Premises: all property, facilities, land, buildings, structures, automobiles, trucks and other vehicles owned, leased or used by the Employer as job sites or work locations and over which the Employer has authority as employer.
(d)	Employee: all persons covered by this Agreement.
(e)	Accident: an event resulting in injury to a person requiring medical attention or causing significant damage to property to which an employee contributed as a direct or indirect cause.
78
356627.1
(f)	Reasonable Cause: erratic or unusual behavior by an employee, including but not limited to noticeable imbalance, incoherence and disorientation, which would lead a person of ordinary sensibilities to conclude that the employee is under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol.
(g)	Under the Influence:	any mental, emotional, sensory
or physical impairment due to the use of drugs or alcohol.
(h)	Test: the taking and analysis of any body component sample, whether by blood, breath, urine, or in any other scientifically reliable manner, for the purpose of identifying, measuring or quantifying the presence or absence of drugs, alcohol or any metabolite thereof.
Section 18.3	Disciplinary Action
(a)	All employees must report to work in a physical condition that will enable them to perform their jobs in a safe manner. Further, employees shall not use, possess, dispense or receive prohibited items or substances on or at the Employer's premises, nor shall they report to work under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol.
(b)	When, based upon the direct observation of two supervisors, the Employer has reasonable cause to believe that an employee is under the influence of a prohibited substance, the Employer shall have the right to subject that employee to a drug and alcohol test. At the Employer's discretion, the employee may be placed on administrative leave with pay until test results are available. If the test results prove negative,
79
356627.1
the employee shall be reinstated. In all other cases, the Employer will terminate all employees who:
(i)	test positive for drug and/or alcohol use;
(ii)	refuse to cooperate with testing procedures;
(iii)	are found to be under the influence of drugs or alcohol while on duty and on the Employer's premises;
(iv)	are found in possession of alcohol, drugs or drug paraphernalia, or are found selling or distributing drugs or drug paraphernalia, on the Employer's premises.
(c)	All adverse employment action taken against an employee under this program shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement.
Section 18.4	Drug and Alcohol Testing
(a)	The Employer may require drug and/or alcohol testing under the following conditions:
(i)	a test may be administered in the event that two
supervisors have reasonable cause to believe that an employee has reported to work under the influence of or is at work under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
(ii)	a test may be required if an employee is involved in a workplace accident or fighting;
80
356627.1
(iii)	a test may be required as part of a follow-up to counseling or rehabilitation for substance abuse for up to a one year period.
(b)	Employees	to be	tested will	be required to	sign a
consent	form and	chain	of custody	form, assuring	proper
documentation and accuracy. If an employee refuses to sign a consent form authorizing the test, he or shall will be subject to termination.
(c)	Drug and alcohol testing will be conducted by an independent laboratory accredited by the NIDA or any successor agency, and may consist of either blood or urine tests, or both. The Employer reserves the right to utilize a breathalyzer to test for the presence of alcohol, in lieu of other clinical testing.
(d)	Laboratory testing procedures will conform to the procedures specified in the NIDA guidelines for federal workplace drug testing programs, dated April 11, 1988 and as may be amended hereafter by the relevant agency of the Department of Health and Human Services.
(e)	Initial and confirmatory test results which meet or exceed the cutoff levels for drugs set forth in the NIDA guidelines (and as they may be amended) shall be regarded as "positive," and shall presumptively establish that the tested employee was under the influence of drugs.
81
356627.1
(f)	Initial and confirmatory (or breathalyzer) test results which meet or exceed the level of blood alcohol established in the Illinois Motor Vehicle Act as legal intoxication shall presumptively establish that the tested employee was under the influence of alcohol.
(g)	The cost of initial and confirmatory testing will be borne by the Employer.
(h)	Drug and alcohol test results shall be reported to the Commissioner of Personnel or his designee in the manner to be prescribed by the Commissioner. The applicant or incumbent shall be notified of the test results in writing. The Commissioner will inform the applicable department head of any employee who tests positive for alcohol or drugs, who in turn will initiate disciplinary proceedings under Section 18.3 above.
(i)	All urine or blood samples shall be taken in sufficient quantity as to allow for retesting. Any portion not used in the test will be preserved by scientifically reliable means for one (1) year following the test. Any employee whose test result is positive may elect, at his or her expense, to be retested by the same or other laboratory satisfactory to the Commissioner of Personnel, provided that the Employer's testing laboratory shall arrange for transmitting said sample to the second laboratory. Positive results of said retesting shall be conclusive as to the presence of alcohol or drugs. The failure to take a sufficient sample, or to preserve such sample, to allow for retesting, shall not affect the removal from
82
356627.1
eligibility of an applicant or personnel action, including discharge, of any employee.
(j)	No laboratory report or test results shall appear in the incumbent's personnel file unless they are part of a personnel action under this program, but shall be placed in a special locked file maintained by the Commissioner of Personnel, except as such disclosure may be required by this policy, law or ordinance.
Section 18.5	Employee Assistance Program
Employees are encouraged to seek help for a drug or alcohol problem before it deteriorates into a disciplinary matter and may participate if they wish in the voluntary Employee Assistance Program.
ARTICLE 19 JOINT APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING PROGRAM INITIATIVE
Section 19.1
The City of Chicago and each Coalition Union (the “Parties”) agree to create a Joint Apprenticeship and Training Program Initiative (“Initiative”) in conjunction with certain third parties including, but without limitation, the Chicago Public Schools (“CPS”), the City Colleges of Chicago (“City Colleges”) and External Contractors. The purpose of the Initiative is to increase the opportunities for participation of graduates of CPS and/or City Colleges in Union apprenticeship and training programs and to provide expanded postapprenticeship and training employment opportunities for such
83
356627.1
graduates. In conjunction with the execution of each Coalition Union’s collective bargaining agreement with the City of Chicago, the Parties shall enter into a supplemental memorandum of understanding regarding the structure, implementation, monitoring and enforcement of this Initiative. Said memorandum shall be attached to this Agreement as Appendix D.
Section 19.2
The Initiative shall generally include the following:
a.	A commitment by each Coalition Union to establish or otherwise expand available apprenticeship and training opportunities; a commitment by the Coalition to fill at least 100 apprenticeship slots across Coalition Unions with CPS students, graduates or former students with a GED and/or City College students and graduates by June 30 of each year of this Agreement.
b.	A commitment by the Coalition and the City to collaborate with the Chicago Public Schools, City Colleges of Chicago and External Contractors to prepare CPS and City Colleges students to enter Union apprenticeship and training programs. In particular, the Coalition and the City will cooperate with the Chicago Public Schools, City Colleges of Chicago and External Contractors to publicize available building and trades apprenticeship and training programs and subsequent careers; to consider establishing
84
356627.1
training programs as appropriate; and to expand postapprenticeship and training employment opportunities.
c.	The Parties shall appoint a Chair and an Auditor to oversee this Initiative and ensure that the parties take appropriate steps to fulfill the commitments set forth in this Article and supplemental memorandum attached hereto.
ARTICLE 20 RATIFICATION AND TERMINATION
The terms of this Agreement shall be subject to ratification by the City Council of the City of Chicago and concurrent adoption in ordinance form. The Employer and the Union will cooperate to secure this legislative approval.
This Agreement shall be effective as of said date of ratification by the City Council and shall remain in full force and effect from said date to June 30, 2017, both inclusive. Thereafter, it shall automatically renew itself from year to year unless at least 60 days and not more than 120 days prior to the termination date or anniversary thereof, either party gives written notice to the other by Certified Mail, return receipt requested, of a desire to amend, add to, subtract from or terminate this Agreement.
In the event such notice of a desire to amend, add to, or subtract from the terms of this Agreement is given the parties shall, within a reasonable time thereafter, enter into negotiations concerning the request. If the parties are unable to agree upon a successor agreement before the 30th day of June following the date on which notice was given, this Agreement
85
356627.1
shall expire on such 30th day of June unless both parties agree to extend this Agreement. The notices referred to shall be considered to have been given as of the date shown on the postmark, written notices may be tendered in person, in which case the date of notice shall be the written date of receipt.
This Agreement constitutes the entire contract between the Employer and the Union and settles all demands and issues with respect to all matters subject to collective bargaining. The Employer and the Union, therefore, voluntarily waive the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any matter which is subject to collective bargaining whether or not such matter is specifically referred to herein, and even though such matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of the parties at the time this Agreement was negotiated or signed.
In the event the City of Chicago agrees to or authorizes additional vacation, holiday or other paid time off, or voluntary unpaid time off with any other bargaining unit (excluding police and/or fire) during the term of this Agreement, such additional time off shall be granted to all employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 21 TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective from the date upon which it is ratified by the City Council of the City of Chicago, but
86
356627.1
no earlier than July 1, 2007, and shall remain in effect through 11:59 p.m. on June 30, 2017.
Health Plan Reopener
Each party reserves the right to reopen this Agreement in order to further negotiate the Health Plan set forth in Article 9 for the following reasons:
1.	Any change(s) in the applicable law(s), including but not limited to a universal, national or state health care program mandating significant changes in health insurance benefits that becomes law and is effective during the term of this Agreement;
2.	The lack of achievement of health care cost containment as anticipated by the parties pursuant to the establishment and administration of the Labor-Management Cooperation Committee on health care, as defined below:
(a)	The parties charge the LMCC with the responsibility of approving Plan changes that will result in significant cost containment or savings, as measured by a projected increase of costs for any individual plan of no more than 8% in Fiscal Year 2009 and each fiscal year thereafter when compared to health care costs in Fiscal
87
356627.1
Year 2008 and each previous fiscal year
provided,
Agreement
thereafter, respectively.
(b)	Should the Plan changes approved by the LMCC fail to result in such cost containment or savings as stated in subsection (a) above, the LMCC shall make such adjustments to the Plan as are necessary, including but not limited to adjustments in deductibles, copays and co-insurance, to prevent the cost increase from exceeding 8% as measured in subsection (a) above.
(c)	Should the plan changes approved by the LMCC fail to achieve cost containment or savings as stated in subsections (a) and (b) above by the end of following fiscal year, either party may elect to reopen negotiations as set forth herein on the following specific topics:
•	Health Plan set forth in Article 9;
•	Structure of the LMCC;
•	Composition of the LMCC;
•	Funding of the LMCC;
however, each party reserves the right to reopen this in order to negotiate the Health Plan set forth in
88
356627.1
Article 9 no later than June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2015, or in the event the City of Chicago is awarded the 2016 Olympic Games, June 30, 2014.
If any one of the foregoing events or conditions occurs, either party to this Agreement has thirty (30) days to notify the other party of its intent to reopen this Agreement in order to negotiate the Health Plan set forth in Article 9. Should either party elect to reopen negotiations pursuant to this provision, it shall submit written notice to the other party. Thereafter, the parties have ninety (90) days within which to reach agreement on the Article. If the parties fail to reach agreement at the conclusion of that ninety (90) day period, each party reserves the right to reopen the entire Agreement.
Non-Prevailing Wage Rate Reopener
Four-Year: This Agreement may be reopened to further negotiate the non-prevailing wage rates governing the second five-year term (07/01/2012 to 06/30/2017) under Article 4, Section 4, in the event that (a) the City notifies the Coalition that it has not reached a successor agreement to a then current four-year agreement expiring on June 30, 2011 regarding an across-the-board percentage increase for other unionized employees in non-prevailing wage rate classifications defined in the “Me Too Clause” by March 31, 2012; or (b) the Coalition notifies the City of its intent to terminate the “Me Too Clause”
89
356627.1
by March 31, 2012.
Five-Year: This Agreement may be reopened to further negotiate the non-prevailing wage rates governing the second five-year term (07/01/2012 to 06/30/2017) under Article 4, Section 4, in the event that (a) the City notifies the Coalition that it has not reached a successor agreement to a then current five-year agreement expiring on June 30, 2012 regarding an across-the-board percentage increase for other unionized employees in non-prevailing wage rate classifications defined in the “Me Too Clause” by October 31, 2012; or (b) the Coalition notifies the City of its intent to terminate the “Me Too Clause” by October 31, 2012.
If any one of the foregoing events occurs, either party to this Agreement has thirty (30) days to notify the other party of its intent to reopen this Agreement in order to negotiate the non-prevailing wage rates governing the second five-year term (07/01/2012 to 06/30/2017) set forth in Article 4, Section 4. Should either party elect to reopen negotiations pursuant to this provision, it shall submit written notice to the other party and the City shall not be obligated to make the wage adjustments set forth in Article 4, Section 4. Thereafter, the parties have ninety (90) days within which to reach agreement on the Article. If the parties fail to reach agreement at the
90
356627.1
conclusion of that ninety (90) day period, each party reserves
the right to reopen the entire Agreement.
Other Reopener
In the event of an emergency, cataclysmic event or other similar exigency affecting the City’s financial condition, each party reserves the right to reopen the entire Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto, by its duly authorized representative(s), has executed this document as of the  day of , 2007.
91
356627.1
Labor Negotiations Between the City of Chicago and COUPE
SIDE LETTER
JOINT APPRENTICESHIP AND TRAINING PROGRAM INITIATIVE: LMCC REFERRAL
Agree to the following in a Side Letter to this Agreement:
The parties recognize that the success of the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Program Initiative depends on the identification and creation of opportunities to increase the use of apprentices in area construction projects. The Parties agree to direct the Labor Management Cooperation Committee established under Article 9 to explore and recommend the consideration of such opportunities to the City and other governmental entities within the City of Chicago in connection with the Joint Apprenticeship and Training Program Initiative, including, but not limited to:
a.	A multi-project labor agreement.
b.	A standard provision in Construction Contracts that (i) contractors and sub-contractors of whatsoever tier shall utilize the maximum number of apprentices on the project as permitted under the terms and conditions of their respective collective bargaining agreement(s); and (ii) all contractor and sub-contractors performing construction work on the project
90
356627.1
shall participate in an apprenticeship program registered with the U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training.
FOR COUPE:	FOR THE CITY OF CHICAGO:
91
356627.1
Labor Negotiations Between the City of Chicago and COUPE
SIDE LETTER
HEALTH CARE PLAN: LMCC REFERRAL
Agree to the following in a Side Letter to this Agreement:
The City and Coalition agree to direct the LMCC to evaluate and initiate changes to the current Health Care Plan (the “Plan”) effective January 1, 2008 in areas that will facilitate the shift to a preventive health care model and will result in design improvements, cost containment or savings, including but not limited to the following areas:
•	Expanded Disease Management Program
•	HRA and Bio-metric Screening
•	Health Fairs
•	Weight Management Program
•	Imaging Review Service
•	Lifetime Maximum
•	Subscriber Share for Hospital Bills and Co-insurance
•	Exclusion for Self-Inflicted Injuries.
•	Comprehensive Communication and Outreach Strategies.
FOR COUPE:	FOR THE CITY OF CHICAGO:
92
356627.1
Labor Negotiations Between the City of Chicago and COUPE
SIDE LETTER
FOUR 10-HOUR DAY WORKWEEK
Agree to the following in a side letter to this Agreement:
Since the Arbitrator issued his Opinion and Award dated June 21, 2007 in the Matter of Arbitration between the City of Chicago and Laborers Local 1001/Teamsters Local 726 (“Award”), the City and affected Coalition Unions have explored various approaches to resolving their dispute over the scope of the Award and the application of Section 3(a) of the Memorandum of Understanding dated July 18, 2005 entered into between the City and Coalition (“Section 3(a)”). In addition to amending Section 3(a) to reflect the Unions’ preferred approach to the four 10-hour workweek, the parties, in return, have discussed an agreement by the Unions to waive some or all of the monetary make whole remedies directed by the Arbitrator in his Award. Although the City is willing to amend Section 3(a) as requested by the Unions in order to conclude negotiations at the Coalition level, such willingness is contingent on the expectation that the affected Unions will reach agreement with the City to waive some or all of the monetary make whole remedies. Until such an agreement is reached, the affected Unions agree that the City shall not be obligated to implement the monetary make whole remedies in the Award. In addition, if such an agreement is not
93
356627.1
reached by December 1, 2007, the parties shall submit the issues of the Unions’ proposed amendment to Section 3(a) to reflect the Unions’ preferred approach to the four 10-hour workweek and the City’s proposed relief from the monetary make whole remedy to an
arbitrator for resolution.
FOR COUPE:	FOR THE CITY OF CHICAGO:
94
356627.1